Pasteurization (American English) or pasteurisation (British English) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century. In 1864, Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine was enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage, preventing these beverages from turning sour. A process similar to pasteurization is thermization, which uses lower temperatures to kill bacteria in milk. It allows a milk product, such as cheese, to retain more of the original taste, but thermized foods are not considered pasteurized by food regulators.
Gram-negative aerobic bacteria together with Gram-positive and Gram-negative anaerobic bacteria can be recovered from fecal specimens within 3 days aft er birth [1]. Th e vaginal and fecal fl ora of the mother, and also the environment (air and food, for instance) are important sources of bacteria [2]. Aft er approximately 2 years of age the microbial composition resembling that of an adult becomes established [3].
Necrosis is caused by factors external to the cell or tissue, such as infection, toxins, or trauma which result in the unregulated digestion of cell components. In contrast, apoptosis is a naturally occurring programmed and targeted cause of cellular death. 1 Severe ischemia most commonly causes necrosis of this form. 2  Liquefactive necrosis (or colliquative necrosis), in contrast to coagulative necrosis, is characterized by the digestion of dead cells to form a viscous liquid mass.
Calymmatobacterium, genus Calymmatobacterium-a genus of bacterial rods containing only the one species that causes granuloma inguinale. Francisella, genus Francisella-a genus of Gram-negative aerobic bacteria that occur as pathogens and parasite in many animals (including humans). gonococcus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae-the pus-producing bacterium that causes gonorrhea. pl n, sing-rium (-rɪəm). 1. (Microbiology) a very large group of microorganisms comprising one of the three domains of living organisms. They are prokaryotic, unicellular, and either free-living in soil or water or parasites of plants or animals.
A cankering disease, due, it is believed, to the action of certain bacteria, presently seized upon it. pl n, sing-rium (-rɪəm). 1. (Microbiology) a very large group of microorganisms comprising one of the three domains of living organisms. They are prokaryotic, unicellular, and either free-living in soil or water or parasites of plants or animals.
bacteria. pl n, sing-rium (-rɪəm). 1. (Microbiology) a very large group of microorganisms comprising one of the three domains of living organisms. They are prokaryotic, unicellular, and either free-living in soil or water or parasites of plants or animals.
The FOSs stimulate Bifidobacteria l growth and suppress the growth of potentially harmful species in the colon [83]. Other effects of FOS include a decrease in fecal pH, an increase in fecal or colonic organic acids, a decrease in fecal bacterial enzymatic activities and a modification in fecal neutral sterols [83]. Th e vaginal and fecal fl ora of the mother, and also the environment (air and food, for instance) are important sources of bacteria [2]. Aft er approximately 2 years of age the microbial composition resembling that of an adult becomes established [3].
Poor water quality can pose a health risk for people. Poor water quality can also pose a health risk for ecosystems. In the Florida Keys, good water quality is essential to a healthy marine ecosystem. Seagrass and coral reef communities thrive in clean water that is relatively low in nutrients. Too many nutrients in the water can cause excess growth of algae, which can smother corals and seagrass. Water quality describes the condition of the water, including chemical, physical, and biological characteristics, usually with respect to its suitability for a particular purpose such as drinking or swimming.
Gram-positive: Gram-positive bacteria retain the color of the crystal violet stain in the Gram stain. This is characteristic of bacteria that have a cell wall composed of a thick layer of a particular substance (called peptidologlycan). Gram's method helps distinguish between different types of bacteria. The gram-staining characteristics of bacteria are denoted as positive or negative, depending upon whether the bacteria take up and retain the crystal violet stain or not.
Any of various photosynthetic bacteria of the phylum Cyanobacteria that are generally blue-green in color and are widespread in marine and freshwater environments, with some species capable of nitrogen fixation. Also called blue-green alga, blue-green bacterium. (ˌsaɪənəʊbaekˈtɪərɪə). ˌsaɪənəʊbækˈtɪərɪə 