Cystoscopy is a test that allows the doctor to look at the inside of the bladder and the urethra. Your doctor may be able to talk to you about some of the results right after the test. The results of a biopsy usually take several days. Cystoscopy may be done to: 1  Find the cause of many urinary system problems. 2  Remove tissue samples for testing (biopsy). 3  Remove a foreign object. 4  Insert a stent. 5  Treat certain problems. 6  Inject a dye that is used for a special type of X-ray of the ureter and kidney.
Why It Is Done. Cystoscopy may be done to: 1  Find the cause of many urinary system problems. 2  Examples include blood in the urine, pain when you urinate, incontinence, frequent urinary tract infections, and blockages in the urinary tract. 3  Remove tissue samples for testing (biopsy). 4  Remove a foreign object. Cystoscopy may be done to: 1  Find the cause of many urinary system problems. 2  Remove tissue samples for testing (biopsy). 3  Remove a foreign object. 4  Insert a stent. 5  Treat certain problems. 6  Inject a dye that is used for a special type of X-ray of the ureter and kidney.
Test Overview. Cystoscopy (say sis-TAW-skuh-pee) is a test that allows your doctor to look at the inside of your bladder and urethra. It's done using a thin, lighted tube called a cystoscope. The doctor inserts this tube into your urethra and on into the bladder. Cystoscopy may be done to: 1  Find the cause of many urinary system problems. 2  Remove tissue samples for testing (biopsy). 3  Remove a foreign object. 4  Insert a stent. 5  Treat certain problems. 6  Inject a dye that is used for a special type of X-ray of the ureter and kidney.
A cystoscopy (say: siss-TOSS-co-pee) is a test to help diagnose bladder problems. It uses a thin tube with a tiny camera at the end. The doctor uses this device to look at the inside of your child's bladder. 
Cystoscopy is a diagnostic procedure that allows the doctor to directly examine the urinary tract, particularly the bladder, the urethra, and the openings to the ureters. Reasons for the procedure. A cystoscopy may be recommended when a disorder of the urinary tract is suspected. Urinary tract disorders may include structural problems that can lead to a blockage of urine flow or a back flow of urine.
If you're having a cystoscopy under a local anaesthetic, you may feel a burning sensation and an urge to urinate when the cystoscope is inserted and removed from your urethra. You may also feel an uncomfortable sensation of fullness and a need to urinate when water is pumped into your bladder to expand it. The cystoscope will usually be kept inside your bladder for anywhere between 2 and 10 minutes. After a cystoscopy, you may need to go to the toilet, so the sterile water can be passed out of your system. You may also be prescribed antibiotics to reduce your risk of developing a bladder infection.
Cystoscopy (say sis-TAW-skuh-pee) is a test that allows your doctor to look at the inside of your bladder and urethra. It's done using a thin, lighted tube called a cystoscope. The doctor inserts this tube into your urethra and on into the bladder. Cystoscopy may be done to: 1  Find the cause of many urinary system problems. 2  Remove tissue samples for testing (biopsy). 3  Remove a foreign object. 4  Insert a stent. 5  Treat certain problems. 6  Inject a dye that is used for a special type of X-ray of the ureter and kidney.
During a cystoscopy, this tube is inserted through your urethra and into your bladder so the doctor can see inside. Your urethra is the tube that carries urine out of your bladder. Images from the camera are displayed on a screen where your doctor can see them. Just before the cystoscopy, you’ll go to the bathroom to empty your bladder. You’ll change into a surgical gown and lie down on your back on a treatment table. Your feet may be positioned in stirrups. The nurse may provide you with antibiotics to help prevent a bladder infection.
Cystoscopy. Guide. Cystoscopy (say sis-TAW-skuh-pee) is a test that allows your doctor to look at the inside of your bladder and urethra. It's done using a thin, lighted tube called a cystoscope. The doctor inserts this tube into your urethra and on into the bladder. Cystoscopy may be done to: 1  Find the cause of many urinary system problems. 2  Remove tissue samples for testing (biopsy). 3  Remove a foreign object. 4  Insert a stent. 5  Treat certain problems. 6  Inject a dye that is used for a special type of X-ray of the ureter and kidney.