Plasma – clotting factors = Serum. Difference in Percentage Volume: Blood plasma is a clear yellow liquid which is 55% of total volume of blood. The major portion of plasma is water i.g 93% and 7% to is composed of blood cell and other parts. Difference in Medical Use: Serum is the most preferred part of blood used in checking blood groups and diagnosis of diseases whereas plasma is delivered to the patients who lack blood cells. Like fresh frozen plasma is used in Hemophilia B. It can also be used for diagnosis of diseases. Summary:
1. Plasma is the part of the blood that contains both the serum and clotting factors. 2. Serum is the part of the blood that remains once the clotting factors like fibrin have been removed. 3. Plasma contains the clotting factors and water, while serum contains proteins like albumin and globulins. Serum is the liquid part of the blood after the coagulation. They contain 6-8% of the proteins that make up blood. They are more or less equally divided between serum albumin and serum globulins. When blood is extracted and left to clot, the clot shrinks after some time.
Both plasma and serum are important parts of blood. The blood comprises of plasma, serum, white blood cells (cells that fight foreign bodies) and red blood cells (cells that carry oxygen). The main difference between plasma and serum lies in their clotting factors. Serum is the liquid part of the blood after the coagulation. They contain 6-8% of the proteins that make up blood. They are more or less equally divided between serum albumin and serum globulins. When blood is extracted and left to clot, the clot shrinks after some time.
Serum is that part of blood which is similar in composition with plasma but exclude clotting factors of blood. Fibrinogen is a protein that is involved in blood coagulation. Fibrinogen is an inactive protein and it performs its functions by converting into fibrin (active form of fibrinogen). Difference in Medical Use: Serum is the most preferred part of blood used in checking blood groups and diagnosis of diseases whereas plasma is delivered to the patients who lack blood cells. Like fresh frozen plasma is used in Hemophilia B. It can also be used for diagnosis of diseases. Summary:
by Katrina Cain. Tweet. Blood plasma and blood serum are both devoid of blood cells and platelets. The difference is in the clotting factors. Blood plasma still contains the proteins that allow it to clot: fibrinogen and other clotting factors, whereas blood serum has had the clotting factors removed. What’s left you might wonder.
A substance called fibrinogen is essential in blood clotting. The blood plasma contains this fibrinogen. Basically, when serum and plasma are separated from the blood, plasma still retains the fibrinogen that helps in clotting while serum is that part of the blood that remains after this fibrinogen is removed. Serum is the liquid part of the blood after the coagulation. They contain 6-8% of the proteins that make up blood. They are more or less equally divided between serum albumin and serum globulins. When blood is extracted and left to clot, the clot shrinks after some time.
Plasma and serum are components of blood and routinely used for blood testing. Serology is the branch of medical science that is involved in study of blood serum. Following are the key points that could be helpful in understanding the difference between plasma and serum. Difference in Medical Use: Serum is the most preferred part of blood used in checking blood groups and diagnosis of diseases whereas plasma is delivered to the patients who lack blood cells. Like fresh frozen plasma is used in Hemophilia B. It can also be used for diagnosis of diseases. Summary:
Blood plasma is the liquid component of blood, in which the blood cells are suspended. Plasma is the largest single component of blood, making up about 55% of total blood volume. Serum refers to blood plasma in which clotting factors (such as fibrin) have been removed. Blood plasma contains many vital proteins including fibrinogen, globulins and human serum albumin. Plasma resembles whey in appearance (transparent with a faint straw colour). Plasma and whole blood has an anticoagulant added, while serum has no anticoagulant. Difference between Whole blood and plasma is that whole blood has cellular elements while plasma has no cellular elements, Plasma has fibrinogen while serum has none.
Serum refers to blood plasma in which clotting factors (such as fibrin) have been removed. Blood plasma contains many vital proteins including fibrinogen, globulins and human serum albumin. Plasma resembles whey in appearance (transparent with a faint straw colour). It is mainly composed of water, blood proteins, and inorganic electrolytes. Report Abuse. (m) Plasma is the liquid portion of the blood that is separated from the blood cells by centrifugation. One of the characteristics of plasma is that it clots easily which is important for hemophiliacs needing a transfusion but is a nuisance in most other applications.