Pregabalin is used to treat nerve pain, epilepsy, and fibromyalgia. While it is not known exactly how the drug works to treat these conditions, it is known to bind to certain parts of calcium channels in the central nervous system. The drug is taken by mouth, usually two or three times a day. 
Knowledge center. Lyrica is Pfizer's trade name for a drug called pregabalin. Pregabalin is an anticonvulsant (anti-seizure) drug that is often used to treat neuropathic pain as well as partial seizures that are common in temporal lobe epilepsy. In Europe, pregabalin is also approved to treat generalized anxiety disorder. 
1 Diabetic peripheral neuropathy -- Pregabalin is used for the treatment of nerve pain associated with this condition. 2  Epilepsy -- Pregabalin is used along with other seizure medications to treat a certain type of seizures called partial seizures. 3  Fibromyalgia -- Pregabalin is helpful for relieving fibromyalgia pain. Pregabalin uses are concerned mainly with the treatment of epilepsy, nerve pain caused by spinal cord injury, diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, and postherpetic neuralgia in adults. Pregabalin (Lyrica ®) is a prescription medication approved for the treatment of the following conditions:
A: Lyrica (pregabalin) is a medication used to treat nerve pain, seizures, and fibromyalgia. It works by slowing down impulses in the brain that cause seizures and also affects chemicals in the brain that send pain signals across the nervous system. A: Lyrica (pregabalin) is an anticonvulsant or anti-seizure medication. The exact way it works is not completely understood, but it is thought to slow down impulses in the brain and affect pain signals in the body. Lyrica is primarily used to treat seizures, fibromyalgia, and certain types of nerve pain.
Pregabalin is used to control seizures and to treat fibromyalgia. It is also used to treat pain caused by nerve damage in people with diabetes (diabetic neuropathy), herpes zoster (post-herpetic neuralgia), or spinal cord injury. Pregabalin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Lyrica (pregabalin) is an FDA-approved drug treatment for fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia is a chronic disorder that causes long-term, widespread muscle pain and tenderness, trouble sleeping, and overwhelming tiredness. Lyrica is not an antidepressant. Rather, it is a drug that targets nerve signals. A. A. Fibromyalgia is a perplexing and often debilitating disorder, but treatment can help. Lyrica, a medicine used to treat patients with seizures, pain from shingles, and nerve pain from diabetes and spinal cord injuries, is offering new hope to those living with the pain of fibromyalgia.
Uses. This medication is used to treat pain caused by nerve damage due to diabetes or to shingles (herpes zoster) infection. It may also be used to treat nerve pain caused by spinal cord injury. This medication is also used to treat pain in people with fibromyalgia.
Pregabalin is also used for postherpetic neuralgia (pain that occurs after shingles) and pain caused by nerve damage from diabetes or a spinal cord injury. It is used to treat a condition called fibromyalgia (muscle pain and stiffness). Pregabalin works in the central nervous system (CNS) to control seizures and pain. It is an anticonvulsant and neuropathic pain agent.
INDICATIONS. LYRICA is indicated to treat fibromyalgia, diabetic nerve pain, spinal cord injury nerve pain and pain after shingles. LYRICA is also indicated to treat partial onset seizures in adults with epilepsy who take 1 or more drugs for seizures. 