No-cellular respiration is the process of converting glucose (C6H12O6) to ATP-a form of energy that can be used by the cell. Synthesis is a general term used for the cre … ation of a product, for example protein synthesis is the creation of a protein. 4 people found this useful. A cell needs energy to work, so the glucose enters a cell and this is where cellular respiration occurs. Glucose enters the motochondria of cells (sort ofthe cells powerplants) where a complex sequence of events takes place..
EASY TO UNDERSTAND BASICS ABOUT CELLULAR RESPIRATION: Respiration is the process by which cells obtain energy from glucose. During respiration, cells break down simple food m … olecules, such as sugar, and release the energy they contain. Respiration is carried out continuously by plant cells, as well as animal cells. A cell needs energy to work, so the glucose enters a cell and this is where cellular respiration occurs. Glucose enters the motochondria of cells (sort ofthe cells powerplants) where a complex sequence of events takes place..
Cellular respiration is the process that cells use to transfer energy from the organic molecules in food to ATP. The following equation summarizes the chemical changes that occur in cellular respiration of the monosaccharide glucose when oxygen is available. The first major step in cellular respiration is glycolysis (see the figure on the top of page 2): 1 glucose 2 pyruvate + 2 ATP What happens next depends on whether or not oxygen is available to the cells.
Just like we need energy to get through the day, individual cells need energy for survival too. Cellular respiration is the process by which cells get their energy in the form of ATP. There are two types of cellular respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient and can be utilized in the presence of oxygen, while anaerobic respiration does not require oxygen. Fermentation starts with pyruvate (the end product of glycolysis). Depending on the organism, pyruvate can either be fermented into ethanol (a fancy name for alcohol) or lactate (lactic acid). Fermentation releases CO 2, but does not make any ATP – all ATP during anaerobic respiration is produced during glycolysis. Since glycolysis produces 2 ATP, anaerobic respiration yields 2 ATP for every molecule of glucose. Both glycolysis and fermentation take place within the cytosol/cytoplasm of a cell
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity. Biology textbooks often state that 38 ATP molecules can be made per oxidised glucose molecule during cellular respiration (2 from glycolysis, 2 from the Krebs cycle, and about 34 from the electron transport system).
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 2  the complete oxidation of pyruvic acid to carbon dioxide and water.
Fermentation Without oxygen, pyruvate is not metabolized by cellular respiration but undergoes a process of fermentation. Thepyruvate is not transported into the mitochondrion, but remains in the cytoplasm, where it is converted to wasteproducts that may be removed from the cell. Although there is a theoretical yield of 36-38 ATP molecules per glucose during cellular respiration, such conditionsare generally not realized due to losses such as the cost of moving pyruvate (from glycolysis), phosphate, and ADP(substrates for ATP synthesis) into the mitochondria.
The overall reaction occurs in a series of biochemical steps, most of which are redox reactions themselves. Although technically, cellular respiration is a combustion reaction, it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell due to slow release of energy from the series of reactions. Biology textbooks often state that 38 ATP molecules can be made per oxidised glucose molecule during cellular respiration (2 from glycolysis, 2 from the Krebs cycle, and about 34 from the electron transport system).
Glycolysis is the first step in cellular respiration for both anaerobic and aerobic processes. Glycolysis takes place in the cytosol of a cell. In the cytosol we convert 1 molecule of glucose into 2 molecules of pyruvate. Fermentation starts with pyruvate (the end product of glycolysis). Depending on the organism, pyruvate can either be fermented into ethanol (a fancy name for alcohol) or lactate (lactic acid). Fermentation releases CO 2, but does not make any ATP – all ATP during anaerobic respiration is produced during glycolysis. Since glycolysis produces 2 ATP, anaerobic respiration yields 2 ATP for every molecule of glucose. Both glycolysis and fermentation take place within the cytosol/cytoplasm of a cell