DNA and RNA are made of Nitrogen bases called as Nucleotide...it is acid nature because of the presence of Phosphoric acid..so it is negatively charged.. Nucleic acids allow organisms to transfer genetic information from one generation to the next. There are two types of nucleic acids: deoxyribonucleic acid, better known as DNA and ribonucleic acid, better known as RNA. DNA contains the programmatic instructions for cellular activities.
Nucleic acids are made of monomers known as nucleotides. There are 3 parts to nucleotides: one of 4 nitrogenous bases, a sugar, and a phosphate group. RNA as well as DNA are … both nucleotides. The four bases in DNA are: Adenine, Guanine, Cytosine and Thymine (present in DNA only). 
Nucleic acids Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleic acids found in the nuclei of living cells. They are the vehicles of genetic inheritance. Nucleic acids are condensation polymers of nucleotides.
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides. Nucleic acids are among the most important biological macromolecules (others being amino acids/proteins, sugars/carbohydrates, and lipids/fats).
I know that H+ is an acid in simplest terms and OH-is a base, but there are many other so-called acids like... show more I know nucleic acids are DNA and RNA and are the building blocks of genetic information. But why are nucleic acids called acids in the first place? Maybe a better question is, what is an acid? I know that H+ is an acid in simplest terms and OH-is a base, but there are many other so-called acids like citric acid etc. 
nucleic acid. A nucleic acid is a long molecule made up of smaller molecules called nucleotides. Nucleic acids were discovered in 1868, when twenty-four-year-old Swiss physician Friedrich Miescher isolated a new compound from the nuclei of white blood cells
There are two types of nucleic acids: DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid). Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA). Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is made up of two strands of nucleotides positioned in the structured of twisted latter, called a double helix. The nitrogenous bases molecules that build DNA’s double-helix are: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). And the sugar used in the composition is 2-deoxyribose.
A nucleic acid is a genetic molecule. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) are nucleic acids. They are polynucleotides, made up of a phosphate-sugar backbone and nitrogenous bases of which there are four types: adenine, thymine (uracil in RNA), cytosine and guanine. Nucleic acids are made of monomers known as nucleotides. There are 3 parts to nucleotides: one of 4 nitrogenous bases, a sugar, and a phosphate group. RNA as well as DNA are … both nucleotides. The four bases in DNA are: Adenine, Guanine, Cytosine and Thymine (present in DNA only).