Explore SAP Gateway Solutions & Add-Ons in the SAP Store. Check out this blog to find out what are the interesting sessions and demos that are going to be offered by SAP Gateway and API Management team at TechEd 2015 at Las Vegas.
Consumption of data through the SAP NetWeaver Gateway interface requires nothing more than the ability to make an HTTP(S) request (something any browser can do); in other words, it does not require the use of any SAP proprietary software or protocols. Some examples of the types of app that can be developed are: 1  Any external business application. 2  fill in the blank yourself. 3  Native applications on mobile devices E.G. iPad/iPhone or an Android device or a Blackberry. 4  Embedded devices such as manufacturing robots or route planning software in Satellite Navigation systems. 5  Any other business ...
SAP inbound processing requires the upstream system to transfer an IDoc to the IDoc interface through the R/3 System port. For this reason, you do not have to specify a port in the inbound partner profiles; the IDoc interface only must recognize the upstream system as a port. To configure an SAP system to send IDocs to the SAP event adapter, use the ALE (Application Link Embedding) configuration to: Register your program ID in SAPGUI. Define a port. Create a logical system. Create a partner profile. Create a distribution model for the partner and message type.
5 apps ne apps Mobile deviceOn-premise suite: back-end system SAP Netweaver Gateway Sybase Unwired Platform ODataOData Adapter API MBORFC; BAPI a Apps(native and/or container)Reusable librariesSDK OData SDK MBO Content DOE Content Sybase Unwired Platform: High-Level Architecture.© 2011 SAP AG. All rights reserved. 9 SAP NetWeaver Gateway Tools Gateway CoreTechnology OData with SAP Annotations Network Standards Tools r SAP NetWeaver Gateway Service AdaptationRESTSupportabilityMonitoringSecurity SAP Business Suite [ERP,CRM,SRM…] Data SourceProviders BAPI RFC WSData Conn.
The SAP Gateway Content Guide is the starting point to use different SAP Gateway services, for example Workflow services. Product Availability Matrix. Detailed information on availability dates, maintenance end dates and upgrade paths, as well as technical release information (supported databases, operating systems, browsers, languages, etc.) for this product.
A Configuring SAP for Inbound and Outbound Processing. During inbound (client) processing, IDocs are transferred to the interface and stored in the R/3 System. The document data is generated in a second step, also in the course of a workflow. Outbound processing in SAP involves event handling. To configure an SAP system to send IDocs to the SAP event adapter, use the ALE (Application Link Embedding) configuration to: Register your program ID in SAPGUI. Define a port. Create a logical system. Create a partner profile. Create a distribution model for the partner and message type.
The SAP NetWeaver Gateway is a set of ABAP add-ons to your existing SAP Business Suite system that provides easy access to your business information in a simple, people-centric manner and lowers the data consumption barrier to the point that no prior knowledge of an SAP system's internal workings is required. Some examples of the types of app that can be developed are: 1  Any external business application. 2  fill in the blank yourself. 3  Native applications on mobile devices E.G. iPad/iPhone or an Android device or a Blackberry. 4  Embedded devices such as manufacturing robots or route planning software in Satellite Navigation systems. 5  Any other business ...
SAP Gateway is a technology that provides a simple way to connect devices, environments and platforms to SAP software based on market standards. Check out this blog to find out what are the interesting sessions and demos that are going to be offered by SAP Gateway and API Management team at TechEd 2015 at Las Vegas.
The whole focus of the SAP NetWeaver Gateway interface is to make SAP business data and functionality as easy to consume as possible. The main target audience for the consumption of Gateway services is non-SAP developers—people who don’t know about SAP software (and probably don’t care either). Some examples of the types of app that can be developed are: 1  Any external business application. 2  fill in the blank yourself. 3  Native applications on mobile devices E.G. iPad/iPhone or an Android device or a Blackberry. 4  Embedded devices such as manufacturing robots or route planning software in Satellite Navigation systems. 5  Any other business ...
All rights reserved. 5 apps ne apps Mobile deviceOn-premise suite: back-end system SAP Netweaver Gateway Sybase Unwired Platform ODataOData Adapter API MBORFC; BAPI a Apps(native and/or container)Reusable librariesSDK OData SDK MBO Content DOE Content Sybase Unwired Platform: High-Level Architecture. © 2011 SAP AG. All rights reserved. 9 SAP NetWeaver Gateway Tools Gateway CoreTechnology OData with SAP Annotations Network Standards Tools r SAP NetWeaver Gateway Service AdaptationRESTSupportabilityMonitoringSecurity SAP Business Suite [ERP,CRM,SRM…] Data SourceProviders BAPI RFC WSData Conn.