Dried spirulina contains about 60% (51–71%) protein. It is a complete protein containing all essential amino acids, though with reduced amounts of methionine, cysteine, and lysine when compared to the proteins of meat, eggs, and milk. It is, however, superior to typical plant protein, such as that from legumes. Arthrospira is cultivated worldwide; used as a dietary supplement as well as a whole food; and is also available in tablet, flake and powder form.
Spirulina is a blue-green algae. Spirulina is a simple, one-celled form of algae that thrives in warm, alkaline fresh-water bodies. The name spirulina is derived from the Latin word for helix or spiral; denoting the physical configuration of the organism when it forms swirling, microscopic strands. Even though spirulina is distantly related to the kelp algae, it is not a sea plant. However, the fresh-water ponds and lakes spirulina favors are notably more alkaline, in the range of 8 to 11 pH, than ordinary lakes and cannot sustain any other forms of microorganisms.
spi·ru·li·na. n. Any of several cyanobacteria of the genus Arthrospira (formerly Spirulina) that are grown in bulk, dried, and used as nutritional supplements for their high levels of protein, vitamins, and minerals. 
Now don’t confuse Spirulina with its close nutritional supplement cousin Chlorella which is a green algae. Both are very beneficial but inherently different. Spirulina is the common name given to two perticular forms of cyanobacteria, namely Arthrospira platensis, and Arthrospira maxima. Arthrospirais is now sold and used all over the world as a nutritional supplement, however it has its roots much further back in history. 
Spirulina is a cyanobacterium that can be consumed by humans and other animals. There are two species, Arthrospira platensis and Arthrospira maxima. Arthrospira is cultivated worldwide; used as a dietary supplement as well as a whole food; and is also available in tablet, flake and powder form. It is also used as a feed supplement in the aquaculture, aquarium and poultry industries
Spirulina is a safe source of protein, nutrients, vitamins, and minerals that has been used for centuries. Though there are no known side effects associated with spirulina, your body may react to it based on your current state of health. Also-to reply to the person who posted about analog B12 - that is very true of spirulina and chlorella, so you don't want to take those a lot without adding B12 to your diet. Whereas the wild blue green algae has bioavailable B12 - it's the only plant that does.
Spirulina is a cyanobacterium that can be consumed by humans and animals and is made primarily from two species of cyanobacteria: Arthrospira platensis and Arthrospira maxima. Arthrospira is cultivated worldwide; used as a dietary supplement as well as a whole food; and is available in tablet, flake and powder form. 
Definition of SPIRULINA. : a microscopic filamentous aquatic cyanobacterium (genus Spirulina, especially S. platensis syn. Arthrospira platensis) that is sometimes cultivated for use as food especially as a dietary supplement. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Yes. It's called spirulina. Unlike plants you may grow in your garden, this miracle plant is a form of blue-green algae that springs from warm, fresh water bodies. Spirulina vs. Chlorella -- Similarities and Differences Chlorella is another form of algae that is sometimes confused with spirulina. The fundamental difference between spirulina and chlorella is that spirulina is many thousands of years older and does not possess the hard cell wall that makes chlorella closer to being a plant than algae. Also-to reply to the person who posted about analog B12 - that is very true of spirulina and chlorella, so you don't want to take those a lot without adding B12 to your diet. Whereas the wild blue green algae has bioavailable B12 - it's the only plant that does.
Blue-green algae are used as a source of dietary protein, B-vitamins, and iron. They are also used for weight loss, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), hayfever, diabetes, stress, fatigue, anxiety, depression, and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and other women’s health issues. Spirulina (BLUE-GREEN ALGAE) Overview Information. “Blue-green algae” describes a large and diverse group of simple, plant-like organisms found in salt water and some large fresh water lakes.