The type of vaccine used depends on a person's age. 1  Pneumococcal conjugate (PCV) for babies. 2  PCV is recommended for routine use in babies and children younger than 2 years of age and for children ages 2 to 5 in certain situations. Why It Is Used. Pneumococcus is a type of bacteria that can cause severe infections, such as pneumonia, meningitis, and blood infections (sepsis). These infections can be serious and can even cause death, especially in people who have impaired immune systems, older adults, and children younger than 2 years of age.
1 PCV13 is recommended for all children younger than 5 years old, all adults 65 years or older, and people 6 years or older with certain risk factors. 2  PPSV is recommended for all adults who are 65 years or older and for people 2 through 64 years old who are at high risk for pneumococcal disease. There are currently 2 types of pneumococcal vaccines: pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13 or Prevnar 13®) and pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23 or Pneumovax®). 1  PCV13 is recommended for all children younger than 5 years old, all adults 65 years or older, and people 6 years or older with certain risk factors
This vaccine protects against pneumococcal (pronounced new-m'COCKL) infections, which mostly strike children under age 5 and can lead to some of the worst childhood diseases. Pneumococcal infections are one of the most common causes of death in the United States from a disease that's preventable with a vaccine. The vaccine is effective in up to 90 percent of people who get it. The germs responsible for pneumococcal are bacteria called Streptococcus pneumoniae. They live in the mucous lining of the nose and in the back of the throat.
Before the vaccine, pneumococcal infections caused more than 700 cases of meningitis, 13,000 blood infections, and 5 million ear infections in children under 5 every year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The vaccine is effective in up to 90 percent of people who get it. The germs responsible for pneumococcal are bacteria called Streptococcus pneumoniae. They live in the mucous lining of the nose and in the back of the throat.
The pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23 or Pneumovax ®) protects against 23 types of pneumococcal bacteria. It is recommended for all adults 65 years or older and for those 2 years or older at high risk for disease. PPSV23 is also recommended for adults 19 through 64 years old who smoke cigarettes or who have asthma. Top of Page. Each year in the United States, pneumococcal disease causes thousands of infections, such as meningitis, bloodstream infections, pneumonia, and ear infections. Pneumococcal vaccines are very good at preventing severe disease, needing treatment in the hospital, and death.
Infants can receive the vaccine as a series of four inoculations administered at 2,4,6, and 12-15 months of age. For children who cannot receive the vaccine starting at age two months, it is recommended that parents see their health care provider for alternative schedules. Prevnar is the first multivalent conjugate pneumococcal vaccine for children under the age of two.
Read more about who should have the pneumo jab. Babies receive the pneumococcal vaccine as three separate injections, at 2 months, 4 months and 12-13 months. People over-65 only need a single pneumococcal vaccination, which will protect for life. It is not given annually like the flu jab. 