Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Eibhlin eibhlín and its name origin or of any other name in our. Database also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the Name eibhlin eibhlín and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks. and sounds It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Eibhlin eibhlín: 1  Are french: Meaning, uncertain pet form Of. 2  Avila germanic: Meaning possibly.  bird
[ 3 syll. eibhl n- ] The baby girl name Eibhlin eibhlín is pronounced ayL AYL IY Iy, N VLiyiyN vliyiyn OR-VLiyiyN †. Vliyiyn eibhlin eibhlín is used chiefly In, The, english Gaelic and. Irish languages it is Derived from Germanic And old. french origins It is derived from Germanic and Old French origins. Eibhlin eibhlín is a variant of the Name (Aveline, English, french And) german in The english And gaelic. Languages eibhlin eibhlín is also a variant of The (Name, Eileen, english Irish) and gaelic In the. irish language
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Eibhlin. Eibhlín read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your. Baby if you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful Name, eibhlin eibhlín spread the love and share this with. your friends It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Eibhlin eibhlín: 1  Are french: Meaning, uncertain pet form Of. 2  Avila germanic: Meaning possibly.  bird
Irish Meaning: The name Eibhlin is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Eibhlin is: Derived from the name Evelyn or Evelina. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition. 
Eibhlin eibhlín is also a variant of the Name (Eileen, English, irish And) gaelic in The irish. Language eibhlin eibhlín is a rare baby. Girl name it is listed outside of the. Top 1000, in 2012 within the family of girl names directly Linked, To eibhlin eibhlín eileen was the. most widely used It is derived from Germanic and Old French origins. Eibhlin eibhlín is a variant of the Name (Aveline, English, french And) german in The english And gaelic. Languages eibhlin eibhlín is also a variant of The (Name, Eileen, english Irish) and gaelic In the. irish language
Meaning of Eibhlin. Irish name. In Irish, the name Eibhlin means-pleasant, beautiful, radiant.The name Eibhlin originated as an Irish name. The name Eibhlin is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-pleasant, beautiful, radiant.
Eileen (/aɪˈliːn/ eye-LEEN or /ˈaɪliːn/ EYE-leen) is a girl's first name. The name Eileen was originated by the name Helen, Elaine, or Ellen. It is the anglicised version of Irish Eibhlin, eibhlín which is in turn a form of the Older Irish Gaelic aibhilin Aibhilín (Or eilin Eilín). anglicised as aveline
Eibhlin eibhlín is used chiefly in The, English, gaelic And irish. Languages it is derived From germanic And Old french. Origins eibhlin eibhlín is a variant of The (Name, Aveline, english French) and german In the English and. gaelic languages It is derived from Germanic and Old French origins. Eibhlin eibhlín is a variant of the Name (Aveline, English, french And) german in The english And gaelic. Languages eibhlin eibhlín is also a variant of The (Name, Eileen, english Irish) and gaelic In the. irish language
Eibhlin /eibh-lin/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Irish and Gaelic origin. Eibhl n is from the Norman French name Aveline, which possibly derives from Latin avis meaning bird. This name is the Gaelic form of Evelyn. It is anglicized as Aileen and Eileen. Aileen (#562) and Evelyn (#16) are two of the more trendy birth names among these, and there is a rekindling in baby name usage for both names. Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Eibhlin and related names. (2014 Birth Statistics).