The most frequently occurring microorganism found in koji production is the fungus Aspergillus oryzae, but there are others that also occur, including A. sojae, A. usami, A. awamori, A. kawachii, Rhizopus spp. , Monascus spp. , Mucor spp. , and Absidia spp. (Murooka & Yamshita 2008; Chen et al 2008). 
It is used in various East Asian cuisines to ferment soybeans. It is also used to saccharify rice, other grains, and potatoes in the making of alcoholic beverages such as huangjiu, sake, makgeolli, and shōchū. The domestication of A. oryzae occurred at least 2000 years ago. A. oryzae is also used for the production of rice vinegars. Its development is a milestone in Chinese food technology, for it provides the conceptual framework for three major fermented soy foods: soy sauce, jiang / miso, and douchi, not to mention grain-based wines (including Japanese sake) and li (the Chinese forerunner of Japanese amazake).
Abstract. Aspergillus oryzae plays a pivotal role in Asian food manufacturing, such as sake, saké (shoyu soy), sauce and (miso soybean). Paste for thousands of, years it has been used for making fermented food and. beverages Aspergillus oryzae plays a pivotal role in Asian food manufacturing, such as sake, saké (shoyu soy), sauce and (miso soybean). paste
Abstract. Aspergillus oryzae plays a pivotal role in Asian food manufacturing, such as sake, saké (shoyu soy), sauce and (miso soybean). Paste for thousands of, years it has been used for making fermented food and. Beverages in, Addition. a oryzae has been used in the production of industrial enzymes for food. processing Aspergillus oryzae plays a pivotal role in Asian food manufacturing, such as sake, saké (shoyu soy), sauce and (miso soybean). paste
A. oryzae is a filamentous fungus (a mold). It is used in Chinese and Japanese cuisine to ferment soybeans. It is also used to saccharify rice, other grains, and potatoes in the making of alcoholic beverages such as huangjiu, sake, and shōchū. The domestication of A. oryzae occurred at least two thousand years ago. Aspergillus sp are commonly used for the production of native and foreign enzymes, including glucose oxidase and hen egg white lysozyme. In these instances, the culture is grown as a submerged culture in a bioreactor. A. Oryzae is a safe well defined aspergillum.
Aspergillus oryzae. Aspergillus oryzae is a filamentous fungus. It is used in Chinese and Japanese cuisine to ferment soybeans. It is also used to saccharify rice, other grains, and potatoes in the making of alcoholic beverages such as huangjiu, sake, makgeolli and shōchū. The domestication of A. oryzae occurred at least 2000 years ago. A. oryzae is used for the production of rice vinegars.
2005 Dec 22;438(7071):1092-3. The genome of Aspergillus oryzae, a fungus important for the production of traditional fermented foods and beverages in Japan, has been sequenced. The ability to secrete large amounts of proteins and the development of a transformation system have facilitated the use of A. oryzae in modern biotechnology. 
Aspergillus oryzae is a fungus widely used in traditional Japanese fermentation industries, including soy sauce, sake, bean curd seasoning and vinegar production. Filamentous fungi generally have the ability to produce various and vast amounts of enzymes in a secretory manner. Among filamentous fungi, A. A filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, is the key organism in the production of all these traditional foods, and its solid-state cultivation (SSC) has been confirmed to be the secret for the high productivity of secretory hydrolases vital for the fermentation process.
Loading ... Aspergillus oryzae is a probiotic filamentous fungi commonly used in the fermentation process of soybeans, rice, grain and potatoes. It is used to make certain fermented Asian foods like tempeh, soy sauce, miso, sake, and rice vinegars. In particular, aspergillus oryzae produces the enzyme amylase, an important enzyme for a healthy gut and good digestion. It is unknown when this fungus was domesticated for human use, but recorded use of it currently dates back over 2,000 years.
Aspergillus oryzae is found in many fermented foods and as an ingredient in many probiotic formulas. Aspergillus Oryzae: Health Benefits of this Probiotic Enzyme by admin. Aspergillus oryzae is a probiotic filamentous fungi commonly used in the fermentation process of soybeans, rice, grain and potatoes. It is used to make certain fermented Asian foods like tempeh, soy sauce, miso, sake, and rice vinegars. In particular, aspergillus oryzae produces the enzyme amylase, an important enzyme for a healthy gut and good digestion. It is unknown when this fungus was domesticated for human use, but recorded use of it currently dates back over 2,000 years.