These five individuals are called the Five Kage, they are Watershadow (Mizukage), Fireshadow (Hokage), Windshadow (Kazekage) , Earthshadow (Tsuchikage) and Lightningshadow (Raikage). The Kage are the leaders of their respective hidden villages and the ninja which inhabit their country. They are depicted below. 
Naruto (ナルト) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Masashi Kishimoto. It tells the story of Naruto Uzumaki, an adolescent ninja who constantly searches for recognition and dreams to become the Hokage, the ninja in his village who is acknowledged as the leader and the strongest of all. Meanwhile, as several Akatsuki members are defeated by Konoha ninjas, their figurehead leader, Nagato, kills Jiraiya and devastates Konoha. However, Naruto defeats and redeems him, reviving those who perished and earning the village's respect and admiration as a result.
Rogue Ninja (抜け忍, Nukenin, literally Fugitive Ninja, also called Missing Ninja/Criminal Ninja) are ninja, of any rank, who have abandoned their Hidden Village homes. 
Background. Cole is the leader of the ninja team and is strongest in defence. He claimed to be afraid of no living creature, excluding dragons, but eventually overcame his fear. Cole's weapon of choices include the Staff of Dragons, the Scythe of Quakes, the Gold-Bladed Saw Staff, and the Golden Tri-Scythe. ―Cole to Karlof about the roto jet in Spellbound. Cole is the black ninja of Earth Minifigure from the Ninjago theme. He is the Ninja former team leader. Cole also had a former fear of dragons, however he conquered it and adopted the Earth Dragon, Rocky, becoming more attached to his dragon than the others.
As a Ninja Trainee, Cole has the classic ninja wrap, first used in the Ninja theme from 1998, in Black. Cole's face print (which would normally be covered by the ninja wrap with the exception of his eyes and eyebrows), is made up of two black eyes with white pupils, a large frown, and two large, bushy eyebrows. ―Cole to Karlof about the roto jet in Spellbound. Cole is the black ninja of Earth Minifigure from the Ninjago theme. He is the Ninja former team leader. Cole also had a former fear of dragons, however he conquered it and adopted the Earth Dragon, Rocky, becoming more attached to his dragon than the others.
Cole is the calm and intelligent leader of the five Ninja. In the beginning, Cole lacked direction and purpose, being unable to put his skill to good use. Becoming a Ninja seemed to be the Earth Ninja's calling, since he was more than happy to accept Sensei Wu's offer. Cole is a major protagonist in LEGO Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu. He is the Elemental Master and Ninja of Earth, who was chosen to protect the Green Ninja along with three other allies. In the first season, Cole was recruited by Sensei Wu to train to become a ninja alongside Jay and Zane.
A ninja (忍者) or shinobi (忍び) was a covert agent or mercenary in feudal Japan. The functions of the ninja included espionage, sabotage, infiltration, assassination and combat in certain situations. Their covert methods of waging war contrasted the ninja with the samurai, who observed strict rules about honor and combat. In the unrest of the Sengoku period (15th–17th centuries), mercenaries and spies for hire became active in the Iga Province and the adjacent area around the village of Kōga, and it is from the area's clans that much of our knowledge of the ninja is drawn.
It was also made into an anime (Japanese animated series). The main character is called Naruto Uzumaki. He is a very energetic ninja who wants to become Hokage. The Hokage is the strongest ninja and the leader of Naruto's village, called Konoha (meaning leaf in Japanese). He is in love with a girl called Hinata, which he then later goes on to marry. The manga was first published in 1999 in a Japanese magazine called Shonen Jump. It was also translated into English. 