Medium cars have overtaken large car sales in Australia and the Opel Insignia, the new mid-sizer from General Motors’ German brand, is hoping to grab a slice of the action. The Insignia represents the flagship of Opel’s range that goes on sale from September, sitting above the Corsa city car and Astra small car. The Opel Insignia even fills a hole for GM in the medium-car segment while Holden waits another few months for its new Malibu to replace the floundering Holden Epica. As with the Opel Corsa and Opel Astra, the Insignia’s predecessor has history in Australia as a rebadged Holden – though it was then known as the Vectra.
The Insignia was the first car to debut new badges for both the Opel and Vauxhall brands, and for Vauxhall, it was the first car to dispense with the characteristic V grille that has adorned Vauxhall models since 1994, which differentiated them from the otherwise identical Opel models. It was launched in Australia and New Zealand under the Holden marque in 2015. In Chile, the vehicle was originally due to be marketed as the Chevrolet Vectra, but is now sold as the Opel Insignia. The Insignia made its debut in Australia in 2012, badged as an Opel. but was dropped a year later after the brand was withdrawn from the market. The Insignia is produced in Opel's plant in Ruesselsheim, Rüsselsheim. germany
The Opel Insignia Concept is a full-size luxury car presented by Opel at the 2003 Frankfurt Motor Show in Germany. The car has a V8 engine from the Corvette with 344 PS. The Insignia Concept has a hydropneumatic suspension system, a pantograph-like mechanism for the rear sliding doors, and LED lighting technology. It was launched in Australia and New Zealand under the Holden marque in 2015. In Chile, the vehicle was originally due to be marketed as the Chevrolet Vectra, but is now sold as the Opel Insignia. The Insignia made its debut in Australia in 2012, badged as an Opel. but was dropped a year later after the brand was withdrawn from the market. The Insignia is produced in Opel's plant in Ruesselsheim, Rüsselsheim. germany
It's a difficult car to approach, the Opel Insignia OPC. There's been nothing before it, at least in this country, so this $60,000 fast four-door sedan is an unknown quantity. The facelifted Opel Insignia OPC has been revealed, sporting a slight redesign and several chassis revisions aimed at keeping the mid-size performance car competitive. The redesigned Opel Insignia OPC offers up a few subtle styling tweaks over the previous car
The Buick Regal is based on the Opel/Vauxhall Insignia, a pair of sedans from General Motors' European and British outfits. In fact, over 46,000 Regals from model years 2010 and 2011 were screwed together on the same lines as the Insignia twins, before GM's Oshawa, Ontario factory took over production fully. Opel is expanding the Insignia ecoFlex lineup with a new 130 hp variant of the 2.0-liter diesel engine. GM's European branch has already been offering an ecoFlex variant of the mid-sized Insignia for some time, utilizing the more powerful 160 hp version of the same engine.
Opel has unveiled a new special edition Insignia OPC on the European market. It is called Unlimited and the best part about it is that it comes with the removal of the 155 mph limiter. In Germany, prices start from 48,605 euro, or about $70,000 at the current exchange rates. After bringing the standard Insignia facelift out for a few test runs, Opel is now testing the OPC version of the sedan in its new version. The model is expected to be launched along with the standard version, sometime at the end of 2012.
Opel Insignia. The Opel Insignia is a car produced by the German carmaker Opel since 2008. its available as a hatchback, saloon or an estate. Like many Opel models, it is sold as a Vauxhall in the United Kingdom. In the North American market it has sold as the Buick Regal since the 2011 model year as a sedan only. 