Weathering is the disintegration and decomposition of rock at or near the surface of the Earth. Erosion is the transportation of material by water, wind, or ice. Simplisticall … y, weathering is the breakdown of rocks and erosion is the carrying away of the broken down fragments.
1. Weathering is a term which describes the general process by which rocks are broken down at the Earths surface into such things as sediments, clays, soils and substances that are dissolved in water. 2. The process of weathering typically begins when the earths crust is uplifted by tectonic forces.
Weathering is the physical wearing down of rock or the earth, and erosion is the movement of the particles loosened by weathering. Weathering can be either mechanical or chemical.
Weathering is the chemical and physical processes that change the characteristics of rocks on the Earth s surface. It is also known as the preparation for erosion. In order for weathering to occur, the environment of a rock sample must change and the rock needs to be exposed to some form of water and the air.
Weathering and erosion. Weathering is the process where rock is dissolved, worn away or broken down into smaller and smaller pieces. There are mechanical, chemical and organic weathering processes. Organic weathering happens when plants break up rocks with their growing roots or plant acids help dissolve rock.
Weathering causes the disintegration of rock near the surface of the earth. Plant and animal life, atmosphere and water are the major causes of weathering. Weathering breaks down and loosens the surface minerals of rock so they can be transported away by agents of erosion such as water, wind and ice.
Mechanical weathering is the physical weathering in which a rock is broken down … into particles. Chemical weathering is the weathering in which rocks are disolved, decomposed, or loosend to change the minerals in the rock.
Once the rock has been weakened and broken up by weathering it is ready for erosion. Erosion happens when rocks and sediments are picked up and moved to another place by ice, water, wind or gravity. Mechanical weathering physically breaks up rock. One example is called frost action or frost shattering.