Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sic—generally inside square brackets, [sic], and occasionally parentheses, (sic)—when added just after a quote or reprinted text, indicates the passage appears exactly as in the original source. Report Abuse.
Etymology and historical usage [edit]. Though occasionally misidentified as an abbreviated word, sic is a Latin adverb used in English as an adverb, and, derivatively, as a noun and a verb. The adverb sic, meaning intentionally so written, first appeared in English circa 1856. It is derived from the Latin adverb sīc, which means so, thus, in this manner. 
Sic in square brackets is an editing term used with quotations or excerpts. It means “that’s really how it appears in the original.”. It is used to point out a grammatical error, misspelling, misstatement of fact, or, as above, the unconventional spelling of a name. I think the author has made an incorrect connection with the “Sic” used by Booth and the [sic] used in written context. I was taught that [sic] is an acronym, much like the (sp) your English teacher used to put on your papers.
Using [ sic ] Properly. Sic is a Latin term meaning “thus.” It is used to indicate that something incorrectly written is intentionally being left as it was in the original. Sic is usually italicized and always surrounded by brackets to indicate that it was not part of the original. Place [ sic ] right after the error. Since [ sic ] is usually used to indicate something that is incorrectly written, and the spelling in the quotes is not incorrectly written in American English, we do not recommend using [ sic ]. You may want to mention in your article that American spellings may differ from those used in UK English.
The word is used to indicate that a particular phrase, spelling or punctuation mistake presented in a text is actually not a transcription error however, produced verbatim. It is presented in an italic form and enclosed within brackets in the following manner - [ sic ]. Although the term SIC is used to preserve a particular phrase or spelling, it can also be used for the sake of humor or in a scathing or sarcastic way. SIC is also an abbreviated form/acronym used for many other terms.
http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/sic... used in writing after a word that is not spelt or used correctly to show that you have written it that way because you are repeating what someone else said or wrote http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dicti... Written abbreviations http://www.macmillandictionary.com/thesa... 
(remembering Ockham’s Razor). Sic is a Latin word meaning “thus”, “so”, “as such”, or “in such a manner”. It is used when writing quoted material to indicate that an incorrect or unusual spelling, phrase, punctuation or meaning in the quote has been reproduced verbatim from the original and is not a transcription error. I think the author has made an incorrect connection with the “Sic” used by Booth and the [sic] used in written context. I was taught that [sic] is an acronym, much like the (sp) your English teacher used to put on your papers.
Common usage of the term 'sic' is to denote an incorrect phrase or spelling which is reproduced verbatim i.e. without making any changes to the original text even if it is incorrect... A Latin word, SIC is used in the place of 'so', 'thus', 'in such a manner' or 'as such'. Although the term SIC is used to preserve a particular phrase or spelling, it can also be used for the sake of humor or in a scathing or sarcastic way. SIC is also an abbreviated form/acronym used for many other terms.
Today we are going to talk about the meaning of [sic]. No, I didn’t just attempt to set my dog on you. I just mentioned a common writing tool that is used in different non-fiction forms of writing. This is usually seen in journalistic items, such as news articles or editorials. 