In the human it is located in the upper right quadrant of the abdomen, below the diaphragm. The liver has a wide range of functions, including detoxification of various metabolites, protein synthesis, and the production of biochemicals necessary for digestion. A human liver normally weighs 1.44–1.66 kg (3.2–3.7 lb). It is both the largest internal organ and the largest gland in the human body. Located in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity, it rests just below the diaphragm, to the right of the stomach and overlying the gallbladder.
GallBladder Location. It is a bile-reservoir and has a pear-shaped structure. It has the capacity of about 30 to 50ml. Gall-bladder is located in the fossa on inferior surface of the right lobe liver. 
Front View of the Liver. The liver is a large, meaty organ that sits on the right side of the belly. Weighing about 3 pounds, the liver is reddish-brown in color and feels rubbery to the touch. Normally you can't feel the liver, because it's protected by the rib cage. The liver has two large sections, called the right and the left lobes. The gallbladder sits under the liver, along with parts of the pancreas and intestines. The liver and these organs work together to digest, absorb, and process food.
Sitting under the liver, the gallbladder controls the expulsion of bile into the duodenum plays an important role in the digestion of fats. It is not an essential organ and is often removed by a surgical procedure known as a cholecystectomy in cases of gallbladder disease or gallstones. The primary functions of the gallbladder relates to the storage and secretion of bile. 1  The gallbladder stores bile. 2  It is also able to concentrate the bile from the liver so that the a large volume of the bile constituents can be stored in a small space (1 liter of bile concentrated into 50 ml).
Located in the upper right portion of the abdomen, the liver and gallbladder are interconnected by ducts known as the biliary tract, which drains into the first segment of the small intestine (the duodenum). Although the liver and gallbladder participate in some of the same functions, they are very different. 
Picture of the gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear. However, if one of the bile ducts ­– the tubes that transport bile from the liver to the gallbladder and also from the gallbladder to the digestive tract – gets blocked with sludge or gallstones or is infected or inflamed, the person can experience pain. The conditions that are associated with gallbladder pain are:
Click to read more below. The gallbladder is a small storage organ located inferior and posterior to the liver. Though small in size, the gallbladder plays an important role in our digestion of food. The gallbladder holds bile produced in the liver until it is needed for digesting fatty foods in the duodenum of the small intestine. The gallbladder acts as a storage vessel for bile produced by the liver. Bile is produced by hepatocytes cells in the liver and passes through the bile ducts to the cystic duct. From the cystic duct, bile is pushed into the gallbladder by peristalsis (muscle contractions that occur in orderly waves).
Front View of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear. 
Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a pear-shaped, hollow structure located under the liver and on the right side of the abdomen. Its primary function is to store and concentrate bile, a yellow-brown digestive enzyme produced by the liver. The gallbladder is part of the biliary tract. 