Climate zones of Africa, showing the ecological break between the hot desert climate of the Sahara Desert (red), the hot semi-arid climate of the Sahel (orange) and the tropical climate of Central and Western Africa (blue). Only the northernmost and the southernmost fringes of the continent have a Mediterranean climate because they aren't located under the tropics. Because of this geographical situation, Africa is a hot continent as the solar radiation intensity is always high.
In fact, the climate of Africa is more dependent to rainfall amount than to temperatures as they are consistently high. African deserts are the sunniest and the driest parts of the continent due to the prevailing presence of the subtropical ridge with subsiding, hot, dry air masses. Only the northernmost and the southernmost fringes of the continent have a Mediterranean climate because they aren't located under the tropics. Because of this geographical situation, Africa is a hot continent as the solar radiation intensity is always high.
The Sahel region is in sub-Saharan Africa and is a transition zone between the arid Sahara desert to the north and the tropical green forest to the south, covering a surface area of 5.7 million Km2 with a population of about 60 million inhabitants. 
1 The Sahara in the north is the world’s largest desert (only three countries have a greater area – Russia, Canada and China). 2  The Kalahari in southern Africa covers an area larger than France. 3  Highland – largely found in the east, below the Horn of Africa. 4  Marine – largely in the southeast. As the climate warms, the Sahara desert is thought to be advancing south at a rate of 600 metres each year. Deforested areas are more at risk; where trees have been cleared for farm land or burning wood, bare earth is blown away and replaced by sand. This process is known as 'desertification'.
The Sahara Desert is home to some of the harshest weather in the world-the temperatures reach extreme highs into the 40's and sometimes even the 50's, rain is scarce and dust and sand storms are common, a result of the prevailing north easterly winds in the area. Africa Weather Overview. The climate across Africa exhibits a number of different weather extremes and in addition to several different climates. Taking up 30,221,532 km and spreading evenly north and south across the equator, it is not hard to understand why so many different weather patterns can prevail.
Desert climate (in the Koeppen köppen climate BWh bwh BWk, bwk sometimes BWn), bwn also known as an arid, climate is a climate that does not meet the criteria to be classified as a polar, climate and in which precipitation is too low to sustain any vegetation at, all or at most a very scanty. shrub Hot desert climates feature hot, typically exceptionally hot, periods of the year. In many locations featuring a hot desert climate, maximum temperatures of over 40 °C (104 °F) aren't uncommon in summer and can even soar to over 45 °C (113 °F) in the hottest regions.
The Sahara has one of the harshest climates in the world. Located in the trade winds belt, the region is subject to winds that are frequently strong and that blow constantly from the northeast between a subtropical high-pressure cell and an equatorial low-pressure cell. 
In addition to being extremely dry, the Sahara is also one of the hottest regions in the world. The average annual temperature for the desert is 86°F (30°C) but during the hottest months temperatures can exceed 122°F (50°C), with the highest temperature ever recorded at 136°F (58°C) in Aziziyah, Libya. Since the Sahara Desert makes up nearly 10% of the African continent, the Sahara is often cited as the world's largest desert. This is not entirely true, however, as it is only the world's largest hot desert.
Great parts of North Africa and Southern Africa as well as the whole Horn of Africa mainly have a hot desert climate, or a hot semi-arid climate for the wetter locations. The Sahara Desert at the north is the largest hot desert in the world and is one of the hottest, driest and sunniest places on Earth. Only the northernmost and the southernmost fringes of the continent have a Mediterranean climate because they aren't located under the tropics. Because of this geographical situation, Africa is a hot continent as the solar radiation intensity is always high.
It is third largest desert overall after Antarctica and the Arctic, which are cold deserts. At 3.6 million square miles (9.4 million square kilometers), the Sahara, which is Arabic for The Great Desert, engulfs most of North Africa. The desert covers large sections of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan and Tunisia. This is the image many people have of the Sahara: a vast sea of sand dunes. The terrain is actually quite varied.