- Form of transparent Opal from Mexico, usually with an orange or red colors, used as a as a gemstone. Mexican Fire Opal usually refers to the form without play of color. If it exhibits a play of color, it is known as Precious Fire Opal.
Opal is one of the world's most beautiful and precious gemstones, predominantly found in Australia. It is one of only six types of precious gemstones found on planet earth, sharing prestigious company with diamonds, rubies, sapphires, emeralds, and pearls.
As defined on wikipedia: An Opal is a mineralid gel which is deposited at a relatively low temperature and may occur in the fissures of almost any kind of rock, being most commonly found with limonite, sandstone, rhyolite, marl & basalt.
Opal is a hydrated amorphous form of silica; its water content may range from 3 to 21% by weight, but is usually between 6 and 10%.
Opal is a very common material that is found throughout the world. Most of this opal is common opal or potch which has a milky or pearly luster known as opalescence. However, rare specimens of opal produce brilliant color flashes when turned in the light. These color flashes are known as a play-of-color.
The most desired and beautiful form of opal is Black Opal, which is opal with a dark blue, dark green, or black background with a strong play of color. Next in importance is White Opal, which is Opal with a light colored body color (white, yellow, cream, etc.) with
Common opal does not exhibit a play-of-color. It is given the name common because it is found in many locations throughout the world. Most specimens of common opal are also common in appearance and do not attract commercial attention.
Areas within an opal that produce a play-of-color are made up of microscopic spheres of silica arranged in an orderly network. As the light passes through the array spheres it is diffracted into the colors of the spectrum.
Over 95% of the world's precious opal comes from Australia, and opal is Australia's national gemstone. While several different types of opal are present in nature, there are two main varieties-precious opal and common opal or potch. Precious opals exhibit the characteristic play-of-colour, and is comparatively rare.