A single carbon fiber is actually a bundle of many carbon filaments. One 3k fiber is a bundle of 3,000 filaments, one 6k fiber is a bundle of 6,000 filaments, and so on. The photo shows one carbon filament (lower left to upper right) compared to a human hair. 
Almost all carbon fiber is made from a common industrial fiber called polyacrylanitrile fiber, also known as PAN. Most PAN fiber is used to make acrylic fiber. It is also used to make carbon fiber with a pyrolizing process, which means it is heated to ultra high temperatures to remove all elements except the carbon. Most carbon fiber is sold at this point and it has a tensile modulus of 33 million pounds per square inch (MSI). (Tensile modulus is a measurement of stiffness.) This 33 MSI fiber, if seen up close, looks like a a redwood tree trunk, with deep fissured bark.
The standard in cosmetic carbon fiber is the 3k plain and twill weaves. 3k fiber means that there are 3,000 filaments of carbon fiber in each strand. This is the most common fiber, and it is easy for weavers to convert from rolls of yarn into woven fabrics. The standard 3k weave is around 200 grams per square meter, or 5.6 ounces per square yard
UD, 3K and 12K specify the carbon weave pattern. 3K means there are 3,000 filaments per tow, 12K means there are 12,000 and UD means unidirectional (no pattern): The construction of bike parts is always UD, only the top layer when naked can be specified to these different finish types. 
3K Carbon Fiber. 3K carbon fiber: The most popular, most common carbon fiber. It gives to the plate classic carbon fiber look. 3K is the workhorse of carbon fiber. It's light, relatively stiff and easy to get and make. 3K got higher elongation before failure and ultimate strength than 6K, 9K or 12K
Putting the 3k woven carbon fiber around hole area, it can prevent carbon fiber from laminating while machining holes. For the weight difference, woven fiber has some area pass across each other. So, woven fiber is heavier than UD fiber. But, for rims, the size of carbon fiber is not large and only one layer different, the weight difference of woven fiber (3k &12k) and UD fiber is not big. Also, all rims have a weight range, for rims, it is +/-15g. So, sometimes, 3k rims & frames are lighter than UD.
A carbon fiber filament is the smallest part of the carbon fiber cloth. The strands are then bundled together to create what's called the tow.. The tow is a bundle of individual fiber filaments or strands that create a larger strand. The tow is then woven together into a cloth or a weave. 
It should go without saying then, that the thickness of a 12k carbon fiber roving will be twice that of a 6k, four times as a 3k, etc. Due to efficiencies in manufacturing, a thicker roving with more filaments, such as a 12k strand, is usually less expensive per pound than a 3k of equal modulus. Carbon Fiber Cloth. Spools of carbon fiber are taken to a weaving loom, where the fibers are then woven into fabrics. The two most common types of weaves are plain weave and twill.. Plain weave is a balanced checker board pattern, where each strand goes over then under each strand in the opposite direction.
The main type of carbon fiber used for the manufacture of bicycle parts are normal tow (under 12000 fibers) carbon fiber, like T700, or commonly known as 3k, 12k weave, and UD(uni-direction) carbon fiber. But, for rims, the size of carbon fiber is not large and only one layer different, the weight difference of woven fiber (3k &12k) and UD fiber is not big. Also, all rims have a weight range, for rims, it is +/-15g. So, sometimes, 3k rims & frames are lighter than UD.