(Redirected from Gluteus medius tendonitis). Tendinitis (also tendonitis), meaning inflammation of a tendon, is a type of tendinopathy often confused with the more common tendinosis, which has similar symptoms but requires different treatment. 
More often the lateral (outer) hip pain is caused by changes within the gluteal tendons (tendinopathy) which may secondarily inflame the bursa. Tendinopathy at the hip is an overuse of the gluteus medius muscle at its insertion to the trochanter. This results in a breakdown in the structure of the tendon and pain is produced when the muscle is used (such as with walking), this is most common in middle-aged women. It can be difficult to distinguish between trochanteric bursitis and gluteus medius tendinopathy due to their proximity.
Some factors which may contribute to developing gluteal tendinopathy or trochanteric bursitis include: 1  Leg length discrepancy (usually a difference of 3cm or more is clinically significant). 2  Gluteal weakness often causing a “hip drop”. 3  Inappropriate foot wear. This results in a breakdown in the structure of the tendon and pain is produced when the muscle is used (such as with walking), this is most common in middle-aged women. It can be difficult to distinguish between trochanteric bursitis and gluteus medius tendinopathy due to their proximity.
If you suspect you may be suffering from gluteal tendinopathy or another hip problem (or even a problem completely unrelated to the hip/glutes), call Active Body on (02) 9899 8242 for a full assessment and treatment of your condition in order to return you to a happy, pain-free, active lifestyle! Commonly reported mechanisms that may cause gluteal tendinopathy include: - An increase in exercise (e.g. walking, running), particularly in active woman, 40-60 years of age. - Pain associated with side-lying, both on the affected side (compression of the tendons), as well as lying on the unaffected side.
GLUTEUS MEDIUS TENDINOPATHY One of the most common causes of hip pain is inflammation and degeneration of the glute med tendon and associated bursae. 
Bursitis may present as a secondary manifestation of this primary gluteal tendinopathy due to constant wear and pressure on the bursa in the same region and often only the bursitis itself is diagnosed. Commonly reported mechanisms that may cause gluteal tendinopathy include: - An increase in exercise (e.g. walking, running), particularly in active woman, 40-60 years of age. - Pain associated with side-lying, both on the affected side (compression of the tendons), as well as lying on the unaffected side.
This is unlike pain from the hip joint, which generally occurs in the groin area or front of the hip. Most people with pain on the side of the hip simply have irritation of the trochanteric bursa and iliotibial band, but in severe cases, tendonitis or a tear of the gluteus medius may also be present. At the side of the hip in the upper thigh, there is a bony prominence called the greater trochanter. Three important structures come together at this point: the trochanteric bursa, the gluteus medius muscle and the iliotibial band.
Gluteal Tendinopathy. The buttock or gluteal muscles are extremely important in providing pelvic stability when walking. Every time you step on your right foot, your right gluteal muscles are vital in keeping your pelvis stable and preventing your left hip from dropping. In order to load and strengthen the tendons: 1  Lie on your side with the affected side up. 2  Have your other leg straight out underneath you. 3  Roll over so that your ‘top-side’ elbow is touching the ground. 4  Flex your knee and hip so that your ‘top-side’ ankle is resting on the side of the ‘underside’ knee.
Closing thoughts: Gluteal Tendinopathy is a complex condition but one that can be treated with management of tendon loading and rehab of movement control. I discussed staging of gluteal tendinopathy with Alison Grimaldi and she said it's easier to stage patellar and achilles tendinopathy as they have an inherently more simple structure and that load management is crucial at any stage in GT. The reactive stage is usually an acute response to excessive load.
The primary pathology of Gluteal Tendinopathy is most likely an insertional tendinopathy of the Gluteus Medius and/ or Gluteus Minimus tendons and enlargement of the associated bursa. Picture from Williams and Cohen (2009) freely available online here. I discussed staging of gluteal tendinopathy with Alison Grimaldi and she said it's easier to stage patellar and achilles tendinopathy as they have an inherently more simple structure and that load management is crucial at any stage in GT. The reactive stage is usually an acute response to excessive load.