Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of neek from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
neek. A word used predominantly by Chavs to describe anyone with an ounce of brain or generally anyone who doesn’t listen to shitty monotonous R&B, wear a huge hoody and txt the guy standing nearest to him with his stolen Nokia phone. Neeks is a flexible term that can be used as a noun or adjective. What it actually refers to is limitless. The key to this term is its subjectivity; its meaning is in the way it's delivered and meant by the speaker. Neeks can often be substituted where language fails.
6. neek. although the common definition is a cross between a nerd and a geek, the word actually originates from America. Black youths named other nigros who enrolled in education, neeks, as it is actually a cross between geek and nigro. Neeks is a flexible term that can be used as a noun or adjective. What it actually refers to is limitless. The key to this term is its subjectivity; its meaning is in the way it's delivered and meant by the speaker. Neeks can often be substituted where language fails.
As a test, Darth Bane had his apprentice Darth Zannah tame a wild neek. After she successfully tamed and brought the little creature back to their camp, Bane used the Force to snap its neck and had her drop it in a pot of bubbling stew. The neeks would become jittery at the first sign of danger, as their visual and aural sense were far more attuned than most sentient species in the galaxy. Over time, the neeks developed an immunity to the dark side of the Force, due to them living in close proximity to the dark side nexus that was Lake Natth.
Neeks were reptilian herbivores, averaging at about thirty centimeters in height, indigenous to the planet Ambria. They were non-sentient, and could often be seen congregating in flocks of about half a dozen, banding together for protection against the larger, carnivorous creatures, such as the Hssiss. The neeks would become jittery at the first sign of danger, as their visual and aural sense were far more attuned than most sentient species in the galaxy. Over time, the neeks developed an immunity to the dark side of the Force, due to them living in close proximity to the dark side nexus that was Lake Natth.
Neeks had a unique skeletal structure, and unlike most reptiles, walked on their hind legs, with smaller forelegs used as arms. They had small fingers used to pull up roots and vegetation, and had a large tail which gave them an extraordinary sense of balance. The neeks would become jittery at the first sign of danger, as their visual and aural sense were far more attuned than most sentient species in the galaxy. Over time, the neeks developed an immunity to the dark side of the Force, due to them living in close proximity to the dark side nexus that was Lake Natth.
The word neek could be used for a geek/nerd, but it is more generally used for people who are not street wise and don’t know how to react to situations such as being threatened or bullied. It could also be used for people who try to be funny but arent, and they will usually receive a response such as “killed it”. Neeks is a flexible term that can be used as a noun or adjective. What it actually refers to is limitless. The key to this term is its subjectivity; its meaning is in the way it's delivered and meant by the speaker. Neeks can often be substituted where language fails.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 