Cholesterol and triglycerides, known as lipids, are fatty substances that the body normally produces. Dyslipidemia means that lipid levels in the blood are too high or low. The most common types of dyslipidemia are. 1  High levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL or “bad”) cholesterol.
Dyslipidemias may be manifested by elevation of the total cholesterol, the bad low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and the triglyceride concentrations, and a decrease in the good high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentration in the blood.
A. Dyslipidemia means an abnormal amount of lipids, or fats, in the blood. Lipids are essential to life, but an excess of certain lipids can increase the risk for cardiovascular disease.
Dyslipidemia Definition. This is when a person has an abnormal amount of fat and/or cholesterol, known as lipids, in your blood. A person may also have a low level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), high blood levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), or high blood levels of triglycerides.
A blood that has an excess of lipids is often referred to as “dyslipidemia” a common problem that affects the blood of both man and women. From the word dys + lipid (meaning cholesterol) + emia (in the blood) basically a disorder in the blood.
Dyslipidemia is an abnormal amount of lipids in the blood. In developed countries, most dyslipidemias are hyperlipidemias; that is, an elevation of lipids in the blood. This is often due to diet and lifestyle.
High Cholesterol (Dyslipidemia). High cholesterol, or dyslipidemia, means that there is an imbalance of fats (lipids), circulating in your blood stream. Cholesterol is a fatty substance your body uses to make hormones and metabolize food. Doctors use three different measurements to determine your overall lipid health:
So dyslipidemia really just refers to an abnormality in at least one of the main cholesterol fractions -- either the good HDL, either the bad LDL, or the triglycerides, or there may be multiple abnormalities that can comprise a dyslipidemia. Next: If My Cholesterol Is Low.