The posterior surface contains the posterior sacral foramen where the posterior branches of the sacral nerves exit. Ligaments provide stability to the pelvis. The most important are the ligaments on the posterior aspect connecting the sacrum to the innominate bones. The sacrum is a triangular shaped bone consisting of 5 fused sacral veterbrae that articulates with the 5 th lumbar vertebra superiorly and the coccyx inferiorly. It is part of the pelvic ring and participates in weight transfer from the trunk to the lower extremities.
Introduction. Sacral fractures occur in approximately 30% of pelvic ring fractures, but fewer than 5% occur as isolated injuries. Sacral fractures are commonly associated with pelvic fractures and lumbosacral dislocation with facet injury. The sacrum is a triangular shaped bone consisting of 5 fused sacral veterbrae that articulates with the 5 th lumbar vertebra superiorly and the coccyx inferiorly. It is part of the pelvic ring and participates in weight transfer from the trunk to the lower extremities.
Classification. One of the most common classification systems of sacral fractures is to use the direction of the fracture line within the sacrum. Vertical fractures can occur in the alae or through the foramina. Oblique fractures can occur anywhere. The sacrum is a triangular shaped bone consisting of 5 fused sacral veterbrae that articulates with the 5 th lumbar vertebra superiorly and the coccyx inferiorly. It is part of the pelvic ring and participates in weight transfer from the trunk to the lower extremities.
The ala of sacrum (plural alae) is a large triangular surface on either side of the body of the base of the sacrum. The alae support the psoas major muscles and the lumbosacral trunk which connects the lumbar plexus with the sacral plexus. In the articulated pelvis the alae are continuous with the iliac fossa. The posterior quarter of the ala represents the transverse process, and its anterior three-quarters the costal process of the first sacral segment. It serves as part of the border of the pelvic brim. The alae also form the base of the lumbosacral triangle.
Zone 1 fractures are sacral fractures lateral to foramina. These are most common fractures and associated with nerve injury in 5%. Usually, L5 nerve root is affected. Sacral fractures are missed quite often, as often as 75% in patients without neurological deficit and about half of those with deficit. Neurologic injury associated with sacral fractures can range from an incomplete injury of a single nerve root to involvement of the entire cauda equina.
Zone I fractures occur at the wing-like structures of the sacrum (sacral ala) lateral to the neural foramina; this type of fracture can cause lumbar L5 nerve root impingement. Approximately 6% of individuals with Zone I fractures experience neurological injuries (Wheeless). Treatment. Stability of the sacral fractures determines the course of treatment. Most sacral fractures are stable, and bed rest is the prescribed treatment along with a sacral corset or brace for comfort while the fracture heals.
Description. Sacral Insufficiency fractures occur in the sacral ala between the SI joints and the neural foramina (Denis Zone 1). The fracture pattern adopts a characteristic H-shape, which is pathonemonic of the condi
Sacral fractures may involve injury to the lumbosacral junction and result in varying degrees of lumbosacral instability or even lumbosacral dissociation. L5 nerve root runs on top of sacral ala whereas S1-S4 nerve roots are transmitted through the sacral foramina. S2-S5 nerve roots perianal sensation and function to control anal sphincter tone and voluntary control. In addition these function to maintain bulbocavernosus reflex. Sacral fractures are missed quite often, as often as 75% in patients without neurological deficit and about half of those with deficit. Neurologic injury associated with sacral fractures can range from an incomplete injury of a single nerve root to involvement of the entire cauda equina.
Classification of sacral fractures. Dr Dalia Ibrahim and Dr Matt Skalski et al. There are several classification systems for sacral fractures, but the most commonly employed are the Denis classification and subclassification systems, and the Isler classification system. These classification systems are important to understand as proper classification can impact management. Used for fractures that involve the lumbosacral articulation: 1  Isler 1: fracture occurs lateral to the L5/S1 facet. 2  Isler 2: fractures line involves the L5/S1 facet. 3  Isler 3: fracture line extends medially
The authors found a 56.7% incidence of nerve injury in fractures that extended medial to the sacral foramina (zone 3), compared with 28.4% for fractures through the foramina (zone 2), and 5.9% for fractures lateral to the foramina (zone 1). Figure A represents a Denis Zone 3 (medial to the foramina) sacral fracture, which has the highest associated risk of nerve injury.Denis et al outlined a novel classification system of sacral fractures based on the position of the fracture line relative to the sacral foramina.