The parietal lobe is a part of the cerebrum. It is responsible for accepting the sensations from the body and in holding and using objects. Also for interpreting the relationship of space and our bodies (like for grasping an object or picking one up or using tools like forks to pick up food and get it into the mouth). The parietal lobe deals with sensory and navigation. It is the main  part of the brain that functions for sensory information.
The superior parietal lobule and inferior parietal lobule are the primary areas of body or spatial awareness. A lesion commonly in the right superior or inferior parietal lobule leads to hemineglect. The name comes from the overlying parietal bone, which is named from the Latin paries- , wall. The major sensory inputs from the skin (touch, temperature, and pain receptors), relay through the thalamus to the parietal lobe. Several areas of the parietal lobe are important in language processing.
Location: Upper, back part of the cortexFunction: Processes sensory information that had to do with taste, temperature, and touch. The parietal lobe carries out some very specific functions. As a part of the cortex, it has a lot of responsibilities and has to be able to process sensory information within seconds. The parietal lobe is where information such as taste, temperature and touch are integrated, or processed. Humans would not be able to to feel sensations of touch, if the parietal lobe was damaged.
Brain Injury: How the brain functions. To help you better understand your loved one’s injury, print this out this page and ask members of the health care team to mark this picture to show you the location of your loved one’s injury or the areas of the brain that are affected. This article will also show you the anatomy of the brain.
The frontal lobe is the part of the brain that controls important cognitive skills in humans, such as emotional expression, problem solving, memory, language, judgment, and sexual behavior. It is, in essence, the “control panel” of our personality and our ability to communicate. 
The parietal lobe plays important roles in integrating sensory information from various parts of the body, knowledge of numbers and their relations, and in the manipulation of objects. Its function also includes processing information relating to the sense of touch. The major sensory inputs from the skin (touch, temperature, and pain receptors), relay through the thalamus to the parietal lobe. Several areas of the parietal lobe are important in language processing.
Primary motor cortex: The primary motor cortex is the strip of brain area just anterior to the central sulcus, the most posterior portion of the frontal lobe. The brain can take direct control of the muscles from the spinal cord. It does this through projections from the primary motor cortex. The parietal lobe contains neurons that receive sensory information from the skin and tongue, and processes sensory information from the ears and eyes that are received in other lobes. The major sensory inputs from the skin (touch, temperature, and pain receptors) relay through the thalamus to parietal lobe.
Immediately posterior to the central sulcus, and the most anterior part of the parietal lobe, is the postcentral gyrus (Brodmann area 3), the primary somatosensory cortical area. The major sensory inputs from the skin (touch, temperature, and pain receptors), relay through the thalamus to the parietal lobe. Several areas of the parietal lobe are important in language processing.
The neocortex is divided into four major lobes: the frontal lobe, the parietal lobe, the temporal lobe, and occipital lobe. These lobes are further divided into different regions. The frontal lobes are involved with control of movement, from stimulation of individual muscles to abstract planning about what to do. The parietal lobe processes visual, auditory and touch information. The temporal lobe is the primary area for early auditory processing and a high level visual processing area. The occipital lobe processes visual information and sends it to the parietal and temporal lobes. The four lobes and the regions within each. The parietal lobe contains neurons that receive sensory information from the skin and tongue, and processes sensory information from the ears and eyes that are received in other lobes. The major sensory inputs from the skin (touch, temperature, and pain receptors) relay through the thalamus to parietal lobe.
The Frontal Lobe is located just behind the skull of the forehead, and it governs our ability to reason, make judgments, organize information and control some motor/muscle functions. The Parietal Lobe is near the back and top of the head. It’s involved with visual attention, sensation (touch and pressure) and integration of senses. The Occipital Lobe is located at the back of the skull and controls vision. The Temporal Lobes are located on each side of the head above the ear