DEFINITION of 'Origination Fee'. An up-front fee charged by a lender for processing a new loan application, used as compensation for putting the loan in place. Origination fees are quoted as a percentage of the total loan and are generally between 0.5% and 1% on mortgage loans in the United States. Next Up.
Lender/underwriting/processing/origination fess are just junk fees that lenders charge for a loan. Most lenders that I've seen will charge anywhere between $600 to $1,000 (doesn't include the cost for the appraisal, credit report, and flood cert). 
An origination fee is what the lender charges the borrower for making the mortgage loan. Origination services include taking and processing your loan application, underwriting and funding the loan, and other administrative services. Origination fees are listed in section A of page 2 of your Loan Estimate. 
An origination fee is similar to any commission-based payment. If a lender takes a 1% fee for originating a loan, they will make $1,000 on a $100,000 loan, or $2,000 on a $200,000 loan. It is likely that the fee rate would be negotiated lower for bigger loans in order to obtain the valuable business. An up-front fee charged by a lender for processing a new loan application, used as compensation for putting the loan in place. Origination fees are quoted as a percentage of the total loan and are generally between 0.5% and 1% on mortgage loans in the United States. Next Up.
The corresponding Fees Worksheet pictured above breaks down the origination charges. Although not pictured here, lenders typically display a percentage on the same line as the Loan Origination Fee, such as 1.000%, if applicable. Go figure. In the example above, the loan origination charge is $1,840 on a $348,000 loan amount, which makes the fee roughly half a percentage point (.50%). This particular broker charged a $250 origination charge, a $695 processing fee, and an $895 underwriting fee, which combined make up the $1,840 total. Note that these fees are represented as one lump sum on the Good Faith Estimate, so ask for a breakdown to see what you’re actually being charged
The origination fee is how lenders make money up front on your mortgage loan. Origination fees are calculated as a percentage of the total loan, usually between 0.5 and 1 percent on U.S. mortgages [source: Investopedia ]. Going back to our APR example, let's say that the second lender charges a 3 percent origination fee, plus an application fee and other costs totaling $3,820 at closing.
Your closing costs--the fees the lender charges for your mortgage--typically add up to several thousand dollars to cover application fees, lawyers fees, title insurance and the loan origination fee. The origination fee alone usually equals one percent of the loan amount, the Wall Street Journal states. 
When buying a car, origination fees are quoted as a flat fee or a percentage of the total loan. For auto loans, origination fees are calculated as a percentage of the total loan, usually between 1 and 2 percent of the loan amount. If a lender takes a 2-percent fee for originating a loan, for example, the lenders will make $600 on a $30,000 loan. For leases, the leasing origination fee is a flat fee. 
An activation fee is typically a set amount for any account. However, an origination fee usually varies from 0.5% (half a point) to 2% (two points) of a given loan amount, depending on whether the loan was originated in the prime or the subprime market. For example, an origination fee of 3% on a £200,000 loan is £6,000