A resident ' s costs in a private assisted living facility in Connecticut can vary considerably. Preliminary information shows an average annual rent range between roughly $18,000 and $30,000 for a small studio to between $41,000 and $45,000 for a more luxurious two-bedroom apartment. 1. average cost to the state for an individual in a nursing home for the past three or four years and the state ' s annual total cost for nursing home care; 2. average cost for a person to live in an assisted living facility;
Assisted Living Costs by State. The Genworth 2015 Cost of Care Survey is the most comprehensive study of its kind. Genworth Financial surveyed approximatey 15% of assisted living communities. The monthly cost is for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility. The costs of assisted living care depend on the level of service a resident requires. The 2010 CDC National Survey of Residential Care Facilities provides some treasured insights into the costs of assisted living, but also how facilities charge residents.
Costs you may face. The average costs for long-term care services in the United States are: $212 per day or $77,380 per year for a semi-private room in a nursing home. $240 per day or $87,600 per year for a private room in a nursing home. $3,500 per month or $42,000 per year for basic services in an assisted living facility. 
The cost of assisted living varies significantly between facilities across the nation and even within the same city. We have compiled estimated costs of assisted living facilities in the United States from many industry surveys. The costs of assisted living care depend on the level of service a resident requires. The 2010 CDC National Survey of Residential Care Facilities provides some treasured insights into the costs of assisted living, but also how facilities charge residents.
Just as the cost of real estate varies by geographic area, assisted living costs also vary nationwide. In the 2015 Cost of Care Survey conducted by Genworth Financial, assisted living showed an increase of 2.86% compared to the 2014 costs and the national median monthly rate is $3,600.
The Cost Of Assisted Living. The average cost for living in an Assisted Living facility ranges between $60 and $80 per day ($1800 to $2400/month) for the basics. This cost covers room and board, basic utilities (electricity, heat, water, and garbage), basic housekeeping (fresh linens) and some meals. This is similar to what many seniors would pay in an Independent Living facility but is much less expensive than the $70-$300 per day ($2100 to $9000/month) for a Nursing Home.. Use the Senior Service by state (right toolbar) to get more detailed information about the cost of senior living in that state.
Brand-new facilities will eat $130,000 to $145,000 per room in start-up costs–or about $11 million for an average-sized location with 80 units, estimates Jim Moore, an industry consultant and author of Assisted Living Strategies for Changing Markets. 
Genworth Financial notes that the costs of assisted living has gone up more than nursing homes, adult day care and home care. Many times, residents that would go into a nursing home can use an assisted living facility instead. They argue that the rise in cost is just a bit more than average inflation. The costs of assisted living care depend on the level of service a resident requires. The 2010 CDC National Survey of Residential Care Facilities provides some treasured insights into the costs of assisted living, but also how facilities charge residents.
The average cost for a private one-bedroom apartment in an assisted living residence is over $3,000 per month, according to research compiled by several nonprofit senior living organizations, including the Assisted Living Federation of America. 