Take Rt 93 north to Manchester NH. From there get on NH 101 west to Keene, NH. In Keene, turn right onto NH 12 north. After Walpole, NH, cross the river (there are several bridges) to Vermont at or near Bellows Falls, Vermont, and follow VT Rt 5 north for about 5 miles. Near the underpass of Rt 91, continue straight onto VT Rt 103 north. Continue for 10 miles to Chester, Vermont. In Chester when VT Rt 103 north turns right, stay straight, and you will now be on VT Rt 11 west. Travel about 4 miles and make a right onto Andover Road, marked only with a typical city type street sign. Travel 8 miles and Andover Rd will end, in Weston. Turn left onto VT Rt 100 south and travel about 1/4 mile to the Inn, on your right and just after the Old Parrish Church, the steeple of which will be prominent. Alternatively, take MA Rt 2 west to Rt 91
Driving distance from Quechee, VT to Boston, MA. The total driving distance from Quechee, VT to Boston, MA is 132 miles or 212 kilometers. Your trip begins in Quechee, Vermont. It ends in Boston, Massachusetts. If you are planning a road trip, you might also want to calculate the total driving time from Quechee, VT to Boston, MA so you can see when you'll arrive at your destination.
Travel time: 60 minutes from St. Johnsbury, Vermont; 60 minutes from Concord, New Hampshire; 60 minutes from Brattleboro, Vermont; 90 minutes from Burlington; 2-1/2 hours from Boston; 2-1/2 hours from Hartford, Connecticut; 3 hours from Portland, Maine; 3 hours from Montreal. From the South I-89N, crossing the Connecticut River into Vermont; take Exit 1, Quechee/Woodstock/Rutland; off ramp, left on Route 4, travel 1.4 miles turn R onto Quechee Main Street at Fat Hat Corner. The Quechee Village Green will be in approximately 2 miles on the left.
The Quechee Club The Quechee Club is conveniently located with nearby access to I-89 and I-91. Easy access to New Hampshire, Boston, Hartford, CT and Burlington, Vermont. Ski Quechee is a two hour drive from Boston’s Logan International Airport as well as Bradley International in Hartford, CT. Bromley is also just a 2.5 hour drive from Hartford and three hours from Boston. Magic Mountain. With a mountain this challenging, it’s nice to know the drive there is easy. Magic’s legendary terrain and authentic Vermont ski experience are less than 200 miles from New York, Hartford, Boston, and Albany.
The festival grounds are located at: 70 Village Green Circle Quechee VT 05059. Quechee is located on Route 4, 7 miles West of White River Junction, Vermont, and 7 miles East of Woodstock, Vermont. From the South I-89N, crossing the Connecticut River into Vermont; take Exit 1, Quechee/Woodstock/Rutland; off ramp, left on Route 4, travel 1.4 miles turn R onto Quechee Main Street at Fat Hat Corner. The Quechee Village Green will be in approximately 2 miles on the left. From the South I-91N, to White River Junction exit to I-89N intersection (Exit 10); take Exit 1 (Quechee/Woodstock/Rutland); off ramp, left on Route 4, travel 1.4 miles turn R onto Quechee Main Street at Fat Hat Corner
Directions to Middlebury. Middlebury College is located in west-central Vermont in the town of Middlebury. The town of Middlebury is a 2 1/2 hour drive from Montreal, about 4 hours from both Boston and Hartford, 5 hours from New York City, and 6 1/2 hours from Philadelphia. There are a number of transportation options available for getting to Middlebury.
BY CAR. Quechee Village is located only 8 minutes (5-1/2 miles) northwest of the junction of Interstates 91 and 89 at White River Junction, VT. If you are arriving from the EAST, drive north on I-89 to Exit 1. It will say Woodstock/Rutland. Turn left onto Route 4 and head west towards Woodstock. Drive approximately 3.9 miles
With 55 trails and glades located just seven miles off of Interstate 91, Burke Mountain is one of the quickest, easiest drives to a Vermont skiing experience. It’s an all-interstate 3-hour drive from the heart of Boston, 3.5 hours from Hartford, and only 2.5 hours from both Montreal and Portsmouth. Bromley is also just a 2.5 hour drive from Hartford and three hours from Boston. Magic Mountain. With a mountain this challenging, it’s nice to know the drive there is easy. Magic’s legendary terrain and authentic Vermont ski experience are less than 200 miles from New York, Hartford, Boston, and Albany.