Mark Jordon (born 25 January 1965) is a British actor, best known for playing PC Phil Bellamy in the British television series Heartbeat, which he left in 2007. A documentary, Heartbeat-Farewell Phil was broadcast later on Christmas Day. where he was husband to barmaid Gina played by Tricia Penrose. Jordon married actress Siobhan Finneran in 1997 separated 2014.Both happily looking after their two children, Joseph and Poppy.
Mark Jordon played PC Phil Bellamy in Heartbeat for 15 years. He appeared in two episodes of Hollyoaks in 2012, between 2011 and 2013 he appeared in three episodes of Doctors, and between 2009 and 2013 he appeared in three episodes of Casualty. Earlier in his career he was in three episodes of Coronation Street. 
Biography Edit. Philip Oscar Bellamy is the second-born son of PC Phil Bellamy and Gina Bellamy, who was worried that something might go wrong like it did when their first baby Daniel died. He was born after Phil's death in the episode  Oscar's Birthday ; Gina gave birth to him in her room in The Aidensfield Arms. PC Phil Bellamy was the father of Philip, but died before he was even born. So Phil never got to see him. Philip Bellamy Jr is named after his father. PC Geoffrey Geoff Younger. DS Rachel Dawson. PC Don Wetherby. PC Don Wetherby took over the job that was held by Phil, after arriving from Northallerton.
Why was phil bellamy killed off in heartbeat. According to sources, Mark Jordon, who plays the role of Phil Bellamy left the show to develop his other career, namely producing and directing. 
A one-off special, Heartbeat: Farewell Phil, reliving his time on the series with contributions from Jordon and fellow actors, was broadcast on ITV on 24 December 2007, the day after his last episode was broadcast. Phil was also one of the characters from Heartbeat to appear in The Royal, a spin-off series set in a Yorkshire cottage hospital, including the first episode, 'First Impressions'. The Royal had previously appeared in an episode called ' Out of the Blue '.
PC Philip Phil Montgomery Bellamy (deceased), was played by Mark Jordon. He appeared in 324 episodes from 1992 - 2007. Phil was also one of the characters from Heartbeat to appear in The Royal, a spin-off series set in a Yorkshire cottage hospital, including the first episode, 'First Impressions'. The Royal had previously appeared in an episode called ' Out of the Blue '.
Former Heartbeat star Mark Jordon is to join Emmerdale to play the brother of hapless Dan Spencer (Liam Fox). The 40-year-old actor, who played PC Phil Bellamy in Heartbeat and its spin-off The Royal, will be on screens from July when ex-marine Dan arrives in the village. Show bosses are promising that Daz will cause havoc for his younger brother, with Dan set on edge by his younger brother's appearance.
Philip Oscar Bellamy, also known as Philip Bellamy Jr, was the second-born son of PC Phil Bellamy and Gina Bellamy. He appeared in occasional episodes from 2008 - 2010. PC Phil Bellamy was the father of Philip, but died before he was even born. So Phil never got to see him. Philip Bellamy Jr is named after his father. PC Geoffrey Geoff Younger. DS Rachel Dawson. PC Don Wetherby. PC Don Wetherby took over the job that was held by Phil, after arriving from Northallerton.
Phil Bellamy (Mark Jordan). Mark Jordan, who plays Phil Bellamy, has been in Heartbeat from the beginning. He has played several policeman in the past including PC Betts in Coronation Street and PC Hicks in All Creatures Great and Small. Heartbeat Characters. Heartbeat is Yorkshire Television's long running series, set in the 60s about the village of Aidensfield in the Yorkshire Moors. Over the time it has been running some faces have come and gone, but some regulars such as Phil Bellamy, Oscar Blaketon, and Alf Ventress have stayed the course.