(HYE-a-loo-RON-ate). COMMON BRAND NAME(S): Hyalgan, Synvisc. USES: This medication is used to treat knee pain in patients with joint inflammation (osteoarthritis). It is usually used in patients who have not responded to other treatments such as acetaminophen, exercise, or physical therapy. Also, after the injection, you may experience increased pain and swelling in the knee at first. If the pain or swelling continues or worsens, talk to your doctor promptly. It is important to have this medication injected on schedule. It may take up to 3 injections before the full benefits of this medication occur.
HYALGAN is used to relieve knee pain due to osteoarthritis. It is used for patients who do not get adequate relief from simple painkillers or from exercise and physical therapy. One group was given an injection of HYALGAN into one knee joint once a week for 5 weeks. The second group was given an injection of salt water into one knee joint once a week for 5 weeks. The third group received two naproxen tablets every day for 6 months.
This medication is used to treat knee pain in patients with joint inflammation (osteoarthritis). It is usually used in patients who have not responded to other treatments such as acetaminophen, exercise, or physical therapy. How to use Hyalgan intra-articular. Read the Patient Information Leaflet provided by your health care professional before you start using hyaluronate and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Important Safety Information. HYALGAN is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hyaluronate preparations. Intra-articular injections are contraindicated in cases of present infections or skin diseases in the area of the injection site to reduce the potential for developing septic arthritis. Transient increases in inflammation in the injected knee following HYALGAN injection have been reported in some patients with inflammatory arthritis such as rheumatoid arthritis or gouty arthritis. Physicians should evaluate whether HYALGAN treatment should be initiated when objective signs of inflammation are present.
Hyalgan is part of the Viscosupplements class and treats Osteoarthritis. Viscosupplements are used to treat osteoarthritis. They work by lubricating joints to reduce pain. Hyalgan is only available as a brand name drug. 
HYALGAN is a sterile mixture that is made up mostly of a natural, highly purified sodium hyaluronate that comes from rooster combs. Hyaluronate is a natural chemical found in the body and it is present in a particularly high amount in joint tissues and in the fluid that fills the joins. One group was given an injection of HYALGAN into one knee joint once a week for 5 weeks. The second group was given an injection of salt water into one knee joint once a week for 5 weeks. The third group received two naproxen tablets every day for 6 months.
In osteoarthritis, there may not be enough hyaluronate, and there may be a change in the quality of the hyaluronate in joint fluid and tissues. HYALGAN is available in either 2 ml glass containers or 2 ml pre-filled syringes. HYALGAN is given in a shot directly into your knee. One group was given an injection of HYALGAN into one knee joint once a week for 5 weeks. The second group was given an injection of salt water into one knee joint once a week for 5 weeks. The third group received two naproxen tablets every day for 6 months.
Sodium hyaluronate is similar to the fluid that surrounds the joints in your body. This fluid acts as a lubricant and shock absorber for the joints. Sodium hyaluronate is used to treat knee pain caused by osteoarthritis. Less serious side effects may include: 1  warmth, pain, stiffness, swelling, or puffiness where the medicine was injected; 2  nausea, stomach pain; 3  headache; 4  back pain; 5  numbness or tingly feeling; 6  cold symptoms such as stuffy nose, sneezing, sore throat; 7  tired feeling; or. 8  itching or skin irritation around the knee