Muscular System, Skeletal Muscle. The junction between the terminal of a motor neuron and a muscle fiber is called the neuromuscular junction. It is simply one kind of synapse. (The neuromuscular junction is also called the myoneural junction.). 1  Education. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Best Answer: 1. Each muscle cell is insulated by a endomysium, alayer of connective tissue that surrounds each muscle cell/fibre. 2. The neurotransmitter at a neuromuscular joint is acetylcholine, it is removed from the synaptic cleft by the degrading action of acetylcholinesterase (an enzyme). details: it splits the acetylcholine molecule into acetic acid and choline
Each neuromuscular junction consists of the axon terminal of a motor neuron and the motor end plate of a muscle fibre. : 1  The long processes of neurones are called axons. : 2  The part of the sarcolemma of the muscle cell that is in closest proximity to the synaptic end bulb is called the  motor end plate . 
A neuromuscular junction is a synapse between a motor neuron and skeletal muscle. This lesson describes the events of synaptic transmission leading to contraction of skeletal muscle. Myasthenia gravis is described as a neuromuscular disease. More specifically, the synapse between a motor neuron and a skeletal muscle cell is referred to as a myoneural or neuromuscular junction. If you break down these terms, the names will make better sense. 'Myo'- means muscle, and 'neuro'- refers to nerves.
Neuromuscular junction can be defined as a synapse the motor neuron and the muscle fiber. Actually the synapse occurs between the “synaptic end bulbs” of the motor neuron and “motor end plate ” of muscle fiber. The motor end plate is in fact the highly excitable region of muscle fiber plasma membrane and it is responsible for initiating action potentials across the muscle surface. Difference between synapse and neuromuscular junction: Synapses and neuromuscular junctions are physiologically the same, however, the neuromuscular junction is a specific type of synapse that occurs between motor neuron and muscle fiber. At other places in the body, such as the Central Nervous System, the structure with similar role is known as synaps
Muscles will contract or relax when they receive signals from the nervous system. The neuromuscular junction is the site of the signal exchange. The steps of this process in vertebrates occur as follows:(`) The action potential reaches the axon terminal. (2) Voltage-dependent calcium gates open, allowing calcium to enter the axon terminal. The neuromuscular junction is where a neuron activates a muscle to contract. Upon the arrival of an action potential at the presynaptic neuron terminal, voltage-dependent calcium channels open and Ca 2+ ions flow from the extracellular fluid into the presynaptic neuron's cytosol.
It is at the neuromuscular junction that a motor neuron is able to transmit a signal to the muscle fiber, causing muscle contraction. The neuromuscular junction is where a neuron activates a muscle to contract. Upon the arrival of an action potential at the presynaptic neuron terminal, voltage-dependent calcium channels open and Ca 2+ ions flow from the extracellular fluid into the presynaptic neuron's cytosol.
A neuromuscular junction (sometimes called a myoneural junction) is a junction between nerve and muscle; it is a chemical synapse formed by the contact between the presynaptic terminal of a motor neuron and the postsynaptic membrane of a muscle fiber. The neuromuscular junction is where a neuron activates a muscle to contract. Upon the arrival of an action potential at the presynaptic neuron terminal, voltage-dependent calcium channels open and Ca 2+ ions flow from the extracellular fluid into the presynaptic neuron's cytosol.
When an action potential reaches a neuromuscular junction, it causes acetylcholine to be released into this synapse. The acetylcholine binds to the nicotinic receptors concentrated on the motor end plate, a specialized area of the muscle fibre's post-synaptic membrane. To make a muscle contract, the acetylcholine of the neuromuscular junction must bind to the nicotinic receptors on the postsynaptic side. Each of these receptors consists of 5 subunits that form a pentagonal structure around a central channel.