You see I've been through the desert on a horse with no name. It felt good to be out of the rain. In the desert you can remember your name. 'Cause there ain't no one for to give you no pain. La, la ... Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. But the humans will give no love. 
You see I've been through the desert on a horse with no name, It felt good to be out of the rain. In the desert you can remember your name, 'Cause there ain't no one for to give you no pain.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Horse with no name was initially sung by America in 1972 It was also sung by: Horace Andy (November 20, 2002) Emmerson Nogueira (November 27, 2001) The Loud Family (January 1995). Source(s): Batman Simon · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Trying to find a song that would be popular in both America and Europe, they came up with a song about the desert. A Horse With No Name was originally titled just that: Desert Song.. The song was written while the band was staying at the home studio of Arthur Brown in Puddletown, Dorset. Ironically, A Horse With No Name replaced Neil Young's Heart of Gold at #1 on the charts. Randy Newman once said the song was about a kid who thinks he's taken acid.. Comedian Richard Jeni joked, You're in the desert, you got nothing else to do.
A Horse with No Name was originally called Desert Song and was written while the band was staying at the home studio of Arthur Brown, in Puddletown, Dorset. A Horse with No Name was recorded in the key of E minor with acoustic guitars, bass guitar, drum kit, and bongo drums. The only other chord is a D, fretted on the low E and G strings, second fret. A 12-string guitar plays an added F♯ (second fret, high E string) on the back beat of the Em.
A Horse with No Name was released as the featured song on a three-track single in the UK, Ireland, France, Italy and the Netherlands in late 1971. On the release A Horse with No Name shared the A-side with Everyone I Meet Is from California; Sandman featured on the B-side. A Horse with No Name was recorded in the key of E minor with acoustic guitars, bass guitar, drum kit, and bongo drums. The only other chord is a D, fretted on the low E and G strings, second fret. A 12-string guitar plays an added F♯ (second fret, high E string) on the back beat of the Em.
A Horse with No Name  is a song written by Dewey Bunnell, and originally recorded by the band America. It was the band's first and most successful single, released in late 1971 in Europe and early 1972 in the US, and topping the charts in several countries. A Horse with No Name was recorded in the key of E minor with acoustic guitars, bass guitar, drum kit, and bongo drums. The only other chord is a D, fretted on the low E and G strings, second fret. A 12-string guitar plays an added F♯ (second fret, high E string) on the back beat of the Em.
I was looking at a river bed. And the story it told of a river that flowed. Made me sad to think it was dead. You see I've been through the desert on a horse with no name. It felt good to be out of the rain. In the desert you can remember your name. 'Cause there ain't no one for to give you no pain. La, la. After nine days I let the horse run free. 'Cause the desert had turned to sea. There were plants and birds and rocks and things. 