Authoritarian-a form of government in which state authority is imposed onto many aspects of citizens' lives. Commonwealth-a nation, state or other political entity founded on law and united by a compact of the people for the common good. Absolute monarchy-a form of government where the monarch rules unhindered, i.e., without any laws, constitution or legally organized opposition. Anarchy-a condition of lawlessness or political disorder brought about by the absence of governmental authority.
The United States of America is a republic. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules. This is often without regard for the rights of the  minority.    For example
The full name of the republic is United States of America. No other name appears in the Constitution, and this is the name that appears on money, in treaties, and in legal cases to which it is a party (e.g. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
According to the CIA World Factbook the United States of America's government type is a Constitution-based federal republic with a strong democratic tradition. Broken down further... Constitution-based: The Constitution of the United States of America acts as the highest and supreme law of the Union. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules.
The government of the United States of America is the federal government of the republic of fifty states that constitute the United States, as well as one capital district, and several other territories. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
The United States of America is a republic. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules. This is often without regard for the rights of the  minority.    For example
The government was formed in 1789, making the United States one of the world's first, if not the first, modern national constitutional republics. The United States government is based on the principle of federalism, in which power is shared between the federal government and state governments. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
Government is the means by which state policy is enforced, as well as the mechanism for determining the policy of the state. A form of government, or form of state governance, refers to the set of political systems and institutions that make up the organisation of a specific government. Every country in the world is ruled by a system of governance that combines at least 2 (or more) of the following attributes (for example, the United States is not a true capitalist society, since the government actually provides social services for its citizens).
Learn about the U.S. Government. The first type of government in America was based primarily on state government. Prior to the signing of the Constitution, America had been made up of thirteen colonies, which had been ruled by England. The opposite of this system of government is a centralized government, such as in France and Great Britain, where the national government maintains all power. Sharing power between the national government and state governments allows us to enjoy the benefits of diversity and unity.
Variant of monarchy; a system of government in which two individuals, the diarchs, are the heads of state. In most diarchies, the diarchs hold their position for life and pass the responsibilities and power of the position to their children or family when they die. Diarchy is one of the oldest forms of government. Every country in the world is ruled by a system of governance that combines at least 2 (or more) of the following attributes (for example, the United States is not a true capitalist society, since the government actually provides social services for its citizens).