Liver Spots. Liver spots, also known as age spots and solar lentigines, are flat, brown, gray or black spots that generally occur on the face, shoulders, hands and arms. They differ in size and normally occur in those parts which are exposed to the sun
Histology slide of a solar lentigo. Liver spots (also known as age spot, solar lentigo, Lentigo senilis, Old age spot, Senile freckle) are blemishes on the skin associated with aging and exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun. 
Causes of liver spots. Liver spots are caused due to exposure to UV or ultraviolet light from the sun over a period of several years. It can also result from excessive use of tanning beds and tanning lamps. The epidermis or the upper layer of the skin contains a pigment known as melanin, which gives the skin its color. Liver spots, also known as age spots and solar lentigines, are flat, brown, gray or black spots that generally occur on the face, shoulders, hands and arms.
Liver spots are blemishes on the skin that are mainly caused due to hyperpigmentation. These spots are associated with aging and are known to be common among adults over 30 years of age. Even though these spots are called liver spots, they have no connection to the liver. Liver spots are NOT caused due to problems in the liver. They are associated with aging and are mainly caused due to excess exposure to ultra violet light. Individuals as they age lose the strength in their skin cells and tissues
Causes. Age spots are caused primarily by years of exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light from the sun. The use of commercial tanning lamps and tanning beds can also contribute to the development of age spots. The pigment in the upper layer of skin (epidermis) that gives your skin its normal color is called melanin
Age spots on the shoulder and back. Age spots — also called liver spots and solar lentigines — are flat tan, brown or black spots. They vary in size and usually appear on the face, hands, shoulders and arms — areas most exposed to the sun. Age spots are very common in adults older than age 50.
Causes. Liver spots are changes in skin color that occur in older skin. The coloring may be due to aging, exposure to the sun or other sources of ultraviolet light, or causes that are not known. Liver spots are very common after age 40
Liver spots are called as Lentigos in medical terms. These are also known as age spots. These are the yellowish-brown flat spots that look like large freckles and are thought to be caused by aging, too much sun, impaired liver function, and a dietary or nutritional deficiency. 1 Age is also a cause in liver spots. 2  Liver spots are extremely common after the age of 40. 3  They occur mostly on hands, forearms, shoulder, face and forehead. 4  Oxidation within the body and the lack of antioxidants also plays an important role in creating age spots on skin.