Many of the New Deal agencies, like the CCC and WPA, did put people to work and did construct some important works during that period. Perhaps the biggest effect on society was the increase in the size and power of the national government. People began to expect the government to act when something happened. There were some immediate effects of the New Deal and some long-lasting effects. While the New Deal did not end the Depression, it did give the population confidence that the government was doing something.
(Answer #1). The New Deal changed the role of government completely. Before the New Deal, government had essentially no role in steering the economy or in providing for the people. After the New Deal, the government has come to play a huge role in both of these things. Because of the New Deal, the government has taken a huge role in the economy. This is something that simply was not the case before the New Deal. Ashley Kannan | Middle School Teacher | (Level 3) Distinguished Educator.
These programs had both a major economic and a psychological impact. In fiscal 1934, the national government made over $2 billion in grants to state and local governments for relief, which in turn made more than $2 billion in relief grants to needy individuals and families. In 1933, $2 billion was 4 percent of GNP. Imagine what the effect would be today if the national government announced it would pass out $240 billion (4 percent of 1996 GNP) in relief to needy individuals, who need only apply to their local (typically county) relief office to see whether they qualified.
FDR: The Man, the Presidency, and the New Deal. Created by the Washington Post for the dedication of the FDR Memorial in Washington, D.C., this website pays tribute to one of the nation's most influential leaders. The New Deal itself created millions of jobs and sponsored public works projects that reached most every county in the nation. Federal protection of bank deposits ended the dangerous trend of bank runs.
But the New Deal didn't solve the Depression. The economy did improve under Roosevelt's tutelage; in retrospect, it became clear that the darkest days of the Great Depression had passed in the winter of 1932-33, after FDR was elected but before he assumed office. But economic progress under the New Deal was painfully, brutally slow. The Second New Deal. In 1935, FDR pushed through his second round of reforms, seeking to make many of the emergency measures of 1933 permanent while striking a more populist tone by overtly attacking big business and the rich.
The National Recovery Administration was a prime New Deal agency established by U.S. president Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR) in 1933. The goal was to eliminate cut-throat competition by bringing industry, labor and government together to create codes of fair practices and set prices. 
The New Deal was a series of domestic programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1938, and a few that came later. They included both laws passed by Congress as well as presidential executive orders during the first term (1933–37) of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Many historians distinguish between a First New Deal (1933–34) and a Second New Deal (1935–38), with the second one more liberal and more controversial. The First New Deal (1933–34) dealt with the pressing banking crises through the Emergency Banking Act and the 1933 Banking Act.
By 1936 the term liberal typically was used for supporters of the New Deal, and  conservative  for its opponents. From 1934 to 1938, Roosevelt was assisted in his endeavours by a pro-spender majority in Congress (drawn from two-party, competitive, non-machine, Progressive, and Left party districts). Many historians distinguish between a First New Deal (1933–34) and a Second New Deal (1935–38), with the second one more liberal and more controversial. The First New Deal (1933–34) dealt with the pressing banking crises through the Emergency Banking Act and the 1933 Banking Act.