Just need to know how long that weed stays in your blood if you smoke only once every other weekend so twice a month and every now and then during the week. You must be thinking of something else, it stays in your blood much longer than 3 days. Originally Posted by Weed420. If its for drug test reasons only 3 days. Last edited by Soniq420; 08-07-2009 at 04:14 PM.
Report Abuse. Marijuana (thc) will be present in your blood for approximately 2 to 3 days after you have used it. It may be remain in your bloodstream past 2 to 3 weeks if you are a frequent and heavy user. Source(s): http://wiki4weed.com/how-long-does-weed-... Lynn · 1 year ago. Thumbs up. So all's i wanna know is, How long does THC from marijuana stay in your blood? i havent done it since feb. 6th and the blood drive is on the 19th.
How long does marijuana stay in your urine? For a regular smoker, anywhere from 2 to 6 weeks, or a month on average. You could give or take a week or so depending on your weight and metabolism. 2-5 days for single use / … up to 12 weeks for habitual use. Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. O … ccasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months.
Re: How long does weed stay in your blood? Originally Posted by Rin101 You must be thinking of something else, it stays in your blood much longer than 3 days Nope in a blood sample it still only stays for about 3 days. In a urine sample it can last a couple months. In a hair sample it can last a year. You must be thinking of something else, it stays in your blood much longer than 3 days. Originally Posted by Weed420. If its for drug test reasons only 3 days. Last edited by Soniq420; 08-07-2009 at 04:14 PM.
Marijuana does not enter your blood stream-THC, the active element in cannabis does. THC can remain detectable in the body for up to thirty days, and in hair samples for up to six months. Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. O … ccasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months.
On a side note, in medical trials and tests, the longest duration of THC staying in someone’s system after 10 years of chronic habitual use is 62 days, so IF it did stay in your system for over 100 days, you are a medical miricle. THC has been found to be immediately detectable after the first inhale of marijuana smoke, with blood levels of THC reaching a peak at around 9.0 min into smoking – just under a minute before the patients took their last puff (9.8 min).
How Long Does Marijuana Stay In Your Blood. How long the THC stays in the user’s blood depends on the frequency of marijuana use. Persons who smoked marijuana just once in their lives would have traces of the metabolites cleaned out within three to five days. The metabolites of marijuana can settle in the hair for months and even up to three years. The hair grows around 0.5 cm a month. It takes about 4 to 5 days from the time THC was absorbed for the hair to grow. For this reason, the metabolites can be a permanent proof of chronic marijuana use
Frequent users urine drug test THC by-product: 2 weeks to a month after smoking (3 months for extremely heavy users) Infrequent users blood drug test THC: 3-4 hours after smoking THC by-product: 2-3 days after smoking. Infrequent users urine drug test THC by-product: up to 10 days after smoking. Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. O … ccasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months.