1 One of the benefits of having a well-known and respected brand name is that firms can charge higher prices for the same products, leading to higher profit margins and hence to higher price-sales ratios and firm value. 2  The larger the price premium that a firm can charge, the greater is the value of the brand name. Approximately 67.70% ($15026/$22271) of the value of the company can be traced to brand name value. The danger of double-counting the value of a brand name The value of a brand name results in higher growth and higher value for the firm owning it. There are some analyses where the brand name value is double counted.
Our brand value model is not just a composite measure of various factors thought to be related to brand value and brand equity. In other words, we don't simply measure brand image, brand awareness, brand loyalty, and other concepts and combine them into a score we then call brand value. Thus, the total value (or utility) of a product or service is a function of 1.) its physical, tangible, deliverable features, 2.) its brand equity, and 3.) its price. In addition, we believe that a brand's value is directly related to customer loyalty.
DEFINITION of 'Brand Equity'. The value premium that a company realizes from a product with a recognizable name as compared to its generic equivalent. Companies can create brand equity for their products by making them memorable, easily recognizable and superior in quality and reliability. 
We frequently refer to 'brand values' as if everyone knows what we mean. It is assumed that there is a general understanding that a brand stands for something and what it stands for must have a value. Goodwill and the Value of Brands. When a company is sold, it seeks to obtain a value over and beyond that of its tangible assets. Historically this has been referred to as `goodwill' and was taken to mean the value of the loyalty of the firm's customers.
The value of a brand name. 1  One of the critiques of valuation is that is fails to consider the value of brand names and other intangibles. 2  The approaches used by analysts to value brand names are often ad-hoc and may significantly overstate or understate their value. Approximately 67.70% ($15026/$22271) of the value of the company can be traced to brand name value. The danger of double-counting the value of a brand name The value of a brand name results in higher growth and higher value for the firm owning it. There are some analyses where the brand name value is double counted.
A brand can be an intangible asset, used by consultants like Brand Finance to rationalise the variation between a company's book value and market value. For example, groundbreaking research conducted by Brand Finance demonstrated that 62% of the world's business is now intangible. Brand Value-Definition. With reference to Brand Finance literature, the term Brand Value is considered to be the net present value of the estimated future cash flows attributable to the Brand.
Brand owners manage their brands carefully to create shareholder value, and brand valuation is an important management technique that ascribes a money value to a brand, and allows marketing investment to be managed (e.g.: prioritized across a portfolio of brands) to maximize shareholder value. The word brand is often used as a metonym referring to the company that is strongly identified with a brand. Marque or make are often used to denote a brand of motor vehicle, which may be distinguished from a car model.
A brand (or marque for car model) is a name, term, design, symbol or other feature that distinguishes one seller's product from those of others. Brands are used in business, marketing, and advertising. The word brand is often used as a metonym referring to the company that is strongly identified with a brand. Marque or make are often used to denote a brand of motor vehicle, which may be distinguished from a car model.
The purpose of brand equity metrics is to measure the value of a brand. A brand encompasses the name, logo, image, and perceptions that identify a product, service, or provider in the minds of customers. Positive brand equity vs. negative brand equity. Brand equity is the positive effect of the brand on the difference between the prices that the consumer accepts to pay when the brand known compared to the value of the benefit received. There are two schools of thought regarding the existence of
Brand Attributes. Also known as core values, brand attributes represents the essence of the brand. Brand attributes are a set of characteristics that identify the physical, character and personality traits of the brand, similar to the attributes that allow us to consistently identify individuals. 