It is the biggest selling termiticide in the USA and is now used in Australia, Japan, France and most other countries where subterranean termite infestations are a severe economic problem. In fact, Termidor has been used in more than a million homes with safety and effectiveness. The US Dept of Agriculture-Forestry Service, has tested Termidor for more than 8 years. So far, results show 100% effective termite barrier protection. Indications are that a Termidor treated soil barrier to a building under moderate to low termite infestation, has similar results within a few months. FOR YOUR PEACE OF MIND, in the meantime, a Termidor treated soil barrier immediately protects the building from termite entry.
Termidor is effective at very low application rates. Typically, when your pest management professional applies Termidor the active ingredient fipronil will be just 0.06%. That's a lot lower than old fashioned termicides and less than most insecticides. Since 1995, fipronil has been used globally for flea and tick control on millions of cats and dog
Termidor is a silver bullet for termite control and protection of buildings and other structures. Termidor is the biggest selling termiticide in the USA and is now used in Australia, Japan, France and most other countries where subterranean termite infestations are a severe economic problem. In fact, Termidor has been used in more than 800,000 homes in the USA. Safety wise, Termidor as applied to the soil areas abutting a building, is of low hazard to people and pets. Unlike some alternatives, Termidor is odorless; and does not contain solvents or any other substances that may lead to indoor air contamination.
The SC in Termidor SC stands for suspended concentrate. They are just different formulations of the same product. The Termidor 80 WG is easier for professional termite control operators to carry in their trucks, and it is easier to mix. 1. For Termite Control: To protect your home from future termite infestations, Termidor must be mixed with water and poured in a 6-inch deep trench that is dug around the foundation of the home. Please read below for more information.
Q: Where can homeowners buy Termidor?A: Termidor is a product that is purchased and applied by licensed pest management professionals (PMPs) who have been trained as a Termidor-certified professional. Homeowners should request that their PMPs use Termidor in the termite treatment programs developed for their homes. A: Termidor has consistently shown exceptional results by providing 100 percent control within three months or less. That s significantly faster than termite baiting systems, which typically take six to 18 months to control termites.
The active ingredient in it is an insect growth regulator called fipronil. Fipronil is a generally safe chemical that is the active ingredient in many flea control medications (where it is applied directly to pets). It excites the nervous system of insects, including termites, and kills them. It's transferred from termite to termite through grooming and feeding. 
Fipronil is a broad-use insecticide that belongs to the phenylpyrazole chemical family. Fipronil is a broad-spectrum insecticide that disrupts the insect central nervous system by blocking GABA-gated chloride channels and glutamate-gated chloride (GluCl) channels, resulting in central nervous system toxicity. 1 Use of Termidor is restricted to certified pest control operators in the following states: Alaska, Connecticut, Nebraska, South Carolina, Massachusetts, Indiana, New York, and Washington State.
Toxicity. The active ingredient in Termidor is a chemical called fipronil, which works by blocking receptors in the brains and nervous systems of living organisms. It's LD50 rating is 177 -- that means it requires 177 milligrams per kilogram of body weight to kill 50 percent of laboratory animals exposed to it. Termidor, short for Termidor SC, most often serves as a subterranean termiticide application. Occasionally it's applied to kill ants. The only difference between the products available to homeowners and professionals is the quantity in which it's sold. The SC stands for suspended concentrate..
Termidor is water-based and has no odour, will not leach through soil and is not damaging to soil micro-organisms, earthworms and plants. In addition, the active ingredient is used extensively on food crops around the world and as the leading product for flea and tick control on dogs and cats in Australia since 1996. Termidor has been assessed by the Australian Pesticide and Veterinary Medicine Authority and Commonwealth Department of Health and Ageing and is fully approved for use in domestic and commercial situations. Termidor is applied at some of the lowest doses of any of the termiticides available today.