Operating Expenses. Operating expenses are costs expended by a small company by each of its different departments to produce a product or services for customers. Examples of these departments include manufacturing, advertising and sales. Small companies have a variety of necessary operating expenses. One example is paying for the rent on a building. This space is necessary to produce the product or services for the business.
Operating Expenses: Operating Expenses consist of goods or services used-up or consumed in operating a business. Operating Expenses consist of two categories; Marketing Expenses and Administrative Expenses. Marketing Expenses are expenses that DIRECTLY relate to the selling of a product or service.
Operating expenses are those expenditures that a business incurs to engage in any activities not directly associated with the production of goods or services (see an alternative definition at the bottom). These expenditures are the same as selling, general and administrative expenses. The definition of operating expenses is sometimes expanded to include the cost of goods sold, thereby encompassing every operational aspect of a business. If so, the following costs are also examples of operating expenses: 1  Freight in and freight out. 2  Direct materials. 3  Direct labor. 4  Rent of production facilities.
In business, an operating expense is a day-to-day expense such as sales and administration, or research & development, as opposed to production, costs, and pricing. In short, this is the money the business spends in order to turn inventory into throughput. An operating expense, operating expenditure, operational expense, operational expenditure or OPEX is an ongoing cost for running a product, business, or system. Its counterpart, a capital expenditure (CAPEX), is the cost of developing or providing non-consumable parts for the product
The more the operating expenses are, the less cash the business keeps. Because operating expenses can be a substantial drain on company resources, controlling operating expenses is an important aspect of managing a financially healthy business. Marketing expenses are the costs of promoting products and services. Administrative expenses are the necessary expenses that are incurred in the course of running a business and are not directly tied to a specific product or service.
Why it Matters: Operating expense is a key component in the calculation for operating income, and operating income is a crucial component of many financial measures. The lower a company's operating expenses are, the more profitable it generally is. 
Operating expenses can greatly impact the profitability of a business and how much cash it has. Operating expenses are the costs a company incurs that are not related to the production of a product. These expenses include items like payroll, rent, office supplies, utilities, marketing, insurance and taxes. Operating expenses are essentially the costs to keep the business running. Marketing expenses are the costs of promoting products and services. Administrative expenses are the necessary expenses that are incurred in the course of running a business and are not directly tied to a specific product or service.
Examples of operating expenses include the following: Examples of compensation-related operating expenses. 1  Compensation for non-production employees. 2  Sales commissions (though this could be interpreted as a variable cost that is therefore part of the cost of goods sold). The definition of operating expenses is sometimes expanded to include the cost of goods sold, thereby encompassing every operational aspect of a business. If so, the following costs are also examples of operating expenses: 1  Freight in and freight out. 2  Direct materials. 3  Direct labor. 4  Rent of production facilities.