1 The bases on one strand of the DNA molecule pair together with complementary bases on the opposite strand of DNA to form the ‘rungs’ of the DNA ‘ladder’. 2  The bases always pair together in the same way, A with T, C with G. 1 Your genome is made of a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA for short. 2  DNA contains four basic building blocks or ‘ bases ’: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 3  The order, or sequence, of these bases form the instructions in the genome.
Other combinations of the atoms form the four bases: thymine (T), adenine (A), cytosine (C), and guanine (G). These bases are the rungs of the DNA ladder. (It takes two bases to form a rung -- one for each side of the ladder.). A sugar molecule, a base, and a phosphate molecule group together to make up a nucleotide. Nucleotides are abundant in the cell's nucleus. Nucleotides are the units which, when linked sugar to phosphate, make up one side of a DNA ladder.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. the rungs are made up of two nitrogen containing bases that are connected to each other by two or three hydrogen bonds. this is how a DNA looks like when untwisted NCB stands for nitrogen containing base and H stands for Hydrogen. |NCB-HH-NCB|. |NCB-HH-NCB|. ---   The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenin … e and thymine  (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and  phosophate groups. 108 people found this useful.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: D. The rungs of the ladder are made up of nitrogenous base pairs AKA nucleotides. C is incorrect...the SIDES are made up of alternating sugar and phosphate groups. Source(s): http://www.biologycorner.com/bio1/DNA.ht... BIG B MAN · 7 years ago. 
The rungs of the ladder are pairs of 4 types of nitrogen bases (thymines, adenines, guanines, cytosines). ---. The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenine and thymine (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and phosophate groups. The uprights are called the backbone and is made up of ribose (a pentose sugar) and phosphate. The rungs are the bases that are the actual coding bit of DNA. These are c … arbon and nitrogen-based molecules that attach to the backbone.
1 Each strand is composed of long sequences of the four bases, A, C, G and T. 2  The bases on one strand of the DNA molecule pair together with complementary bases on the opposite strand of DNA to form the ‘rungs’ of the DNA ‘ladder’. 3  The bases always pair together in the same way, A with T, C with G. 1 Your genome is made of a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA for short. 2  DNA contains four basic building blocks or ‘ bases ’: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 3  The order, or sequence, of these bases form the instructions in the genome.
The rungs of the ladder are pairs of 4 types of nitrogen bases  (thymines, adenines, guanines, cytosines).   ---   The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenin … e and thymine  (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and  phosophate groups. 108 people found this useful.
The 'rungs' of the DNA ladder are each made of two bases, one base coming from each leg. The bases connect in the middle: 'A' only pairs with 'T', and 'C' only pairs with 'G'. The bases are held together by hydrogen bonds. 
the base pairs The rungs of the DNA ladder are formed by nucleotides (Adenine with Thymine, and Guanine with Cytosine) bonded together with Hydrogen bonds. + 13 others found this useful. The uprights are called the backbone and is made up of ribose (a pentose sugar) and phosphate. The rungs are the bases that are the actual coding bit of DNA. These are c … arbon and nitrogen-based molecules that attach to the backbone.