PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction). is a revolutionary method developed by Kary Mullis in the 1980s. PCR is based on using the ability of DNA polymerase to synthesize new strand of DNA complementary to the offered template strand. 
PCR (polymerase chain reaction) is a method to analyze a short sequence of DNA (or RNA) even in samples containing only minute quantities of DNA or RNA. PCR is used to reproduce (amplify) selected sections of DNA or RNA. Previously, amplification of DNA involved cloning the segments of interest into vectors for expression in bacteria, and took weeks. But now, with PCR done in test tubes, it takes only a few hours. As illustrated in the animated picture of PCR, three major steps are involved in a PCR. These three steps are repeated for 30 or 40 cycles. The cycles are done on an automated cycler, a device which rapidly heats and cools the test tubes containing the reaction mixture.
The polymerase chain reaction or PCR is a widely used method for amplifying DNA fragments. PCR uses thermocycling, which is the repeated heating and cooling of the reaction via three distinct temperatures called denaturation, annealing and extension or elongation. In addition to the primers and DNA template, DNA polymerase is essential for the PCR reaction. The enzyme most commonly used in PCR is Taq polymerase, which is a thermostable enzyme isolated from the bacterium Thermus aquaticus that makes its home in hot springs.
A polymerase chain reaction is a process that amplifies DNA sequences for identification. PCR applications and PCR testing are presented in this article. This process can identify negative HIV antibodies and help identify criminals. The PCR lab test (polymerase chain reaction) was developed to overcome the obstacle of quickly replicating DNA for research use. Developed in the 1980s, the PCR lab test is widely applied in medicine, from identifying new viruses to testing for bacterial illness.
A PCR or polymerase chain reaction is a laboratory procedure in which millions of copies of a specific piece of DNA are made. It is essentially an amplification method, whereby the tiniest amounts of DNA that may be present in blood, hair or tissues can be copied so that there is enough for analysis. Variations of PCR. There are several variations of the PCR technique. One commonly used and important variation is real-time PCR or quantitative PCR (q-PCR). Real-time PCR can be used to count the amount of DNA, or number of copies of a gene, that is present in a sample.
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. 
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). PCR is a laboratory method used for making a very large number of copies of short sections of DNA from a very small sample of genetic material. This process is called amplifying the DNA and it enables specific genes of interest to be detected or measured. 
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technique that is used to amplify trace amounts of DNA (and in some instances, RNA) located in or on almost any liquid or surface where DNA strands may be deposited. 
Summary. The polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, is a technique used to amplify DNA through thermocycling – cyles of temperature changes at fixed time intervals. Using a thermostable DNA polymerase, PCR can create numerous copies of DNA from DNA building blocks called dinucleoside triphosphates or dNTPs. In addition to the primers and DNA template, DNA polymerase is essential for the PCR reaction. The enzyme most commonly used in PCR is Taq polymerase, which is a thermostable enzyme isolated from the bacterium Thermus aquaticus that makes its home in hot springs.