As a result, some employers will have to increase the level of contributions they make for some of their employees from 1 July 2008. The minimum amount that SG contributions are calculated on for employees includes the following types of payments:. An employee's ordinary hours of work may be stated in a statute, an industrial award or an agreement with the employer. If the ordinary hours of work are not specified or agreed, the ordinary hours of work will be the hours actually worked (not including overtime) and any hours of paid leave.
Annual leave payable on termination is not subject to superannuation. As a safe guard, most accounting software requires you to have a superannuation line on every payslip. You may need to work around this to remove the superannuation payment on the leave payout. Simply adjust the percentage of the superannuation to 0%. PAYG on leave payouts is not just calculated like a normal pay run would be. The ATO has created a complex formula to calculate the PAYG on unused leave payouts. This PAYG formula is applicable for unused annual leave, leave loading, leave bonuses and long service leave.
www.australiansuper.com/employer page 1 of 2 Meeting employer Superannuation Guarantee (SG) and Tax File Number responsibilities will mean you can claim SG contributions as a tax deduction and avoid penalties from the Australian Taxation Office. Read on to find out how. For more detailed information, please call the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) on 13 10 20 or go to www.ato.gov.au * While not part of salary or wages for SG calculations, these may be salary or wages for income tax purposes.
1 It proposes to amend the Superannuation Contributions Tax (Assessment and Collection) Act 1997 to ensure that only the post 20 August 1996 amount of an employer eligible termination payment (ETP) taken as cash will be potentially subject to a surcharge. The termination payment surcharge is a similar tax to the much maligned superannuation contributions surcharge tax. Like the superannuation contributions surcharge, the termination payments surcharge came into effect after 7:30 PM legal time in the Australian Capital Territory on 20 August 1996.
When making a termination payment, does the employer also have to make superannuation guarantee payments? Generally, lump sum payments do not attract the SG, but payments made in lieu of notice do. 
VicSuper The Superannuation Guarantee is not generally payable when an employee is away from work and not receiving pay, such as on unpaid parental leave or approved leave without pay.The Superannuation Guarantee is the employer making payments to a defined contribution or accumulation style superfund. 
The gross salary or wage of an employeeis liable to pay-roll tax, including entitlements. and deductions made to or in relation to an employee (e.g. income tax, hospital benefit. fund contributions, union fees, superannuation, holiday pay and termination payments. such as accrued leave entitlements or deferred wages). 
Amount that SG contributions are calculated on. Note: From 1 July 2008, employers must use ordinary time earnings (OTE) as defined in superannuation guarantee law to calculate the minimum superannuation guarantee contributions for their eligible employees. An employee's ordinary hours of work may be stated in a statute, an industrial award or an agreement with the employer. If the ordinary hours of work are not specified or agreed, the ordinary hours of work will be the hours actually worked (not including overtime) and any hours of paid leave.