Pisa & Florence. With only one day to explore the beauty of Pisa and Florence, make the most of your time in Livorno port with a private driver who will chauffeur you through the beautiful countryside to visit these two well known Italian cities. One of Joe Banana's English speaking drivers will meet you at port of Livorno. He will be standing in front of the gangway of your cruise ship holding a sign with your name on it. Your day will then begin with about a 40 minute drive along a picturesque road to Pisa.
Trains from Livorno to Pisa run at the following times (NB: trains are often bound for Florence - ' Firenze ' in Italian-stopping in Pisa). NB. DON'T FORGET TO VALIDATE YOUR TICKET AT ONE OF THE MACHINES IN THE STATION BEFORE YOU TRAVEL. Children under 4 travel free, and up to the age of 11 get a 50% discount on these trains. It is also possible to travel from Livorno to Pisa by bus. A new direct service will be running from March 2015. For more information, please follow this link.
20 minuten. You can easily visit Pisa by train from Livorno. The train ride from Livorno Centrale to Pisa Centrale only takes 20 minutes and costs € 2.30 per person (one way). There run 1-2 trains per hour. The Leaning Tower Of Pisa is a 15-minute walk from the train station. You can check the train timetable in advance. 60 minuten. At the back of the cathedral in the center of Livorno, you can take bus N° 10 to Pisa at Largo Duomo bus stop. This bus from CPT company runs every 30 minutes between Livorno and Pisa Piazza Sant'Antonio and costs € 2,75 per person (one way).
The journey to Pisa only takes 15-20 minutes, trains are frequent, and it is cheap-only €2.50 each way per person on REGIONALE trains (fare correct as of JAN 2015). Children under 4 travel free, and up to the age of 11 get a 50% discount on these trains. It is also possible to travel from Livorno to Pisa by bus. A new direct service will be running from March 2015. For more information, please follow this link.
20 minuten. You can easily visit Pisa by train from Livorno. The train ride from Livorno Centrale to Pisa Centrale only takes 20 minutes and costs € 2.30 per person (one way). There run 1-2 trains per hour. The Leaning Tower Of Pisa is a 15-minute walk from the train station. How do I get to the train station from the cruise port in Livorno? Livorno Centrale train station is too far from the harbor to get there on foot. You can take a taxi for approximately € 20 per taxi (4 persons one way) or you opt for the combination shuttle bus and public transport.
Travelling to Florence by train from Livorno. Florence in a Day from Livorno. Going to Pisa by train from Livorno. How to get from Pisa Centrale train station to the Leaning Tower. 1  Florence. 2  Local Transport. 3  Pisa. 4  Travel & Transport. LIVORNO-PISA-LIVORNO. This bus service goes directly from Livorno city centre (Via Cogorano) to the bus park in Pisa from where it is about a 15 minute walk to the famous Piazza dei Miracoli and its Leaning Tower.
For information about how to get from Pisa Centrale Station to the Leaning Tower, click here. When going to Pisa, allow plenty of time for your visit. Although Pisa is a small town, it still takes time to get from Pisa Centrale station to the Leaning Tower, whether by local bus or on foot. Children under 4 travel free, and up to the age of 11 get a 50% discount on these trains. It is also possible to travel from Livorno to Pisa by bus. A new direct service will be running from March 2015. For more information, please follow this link.