IMPORTANCE OF NURSING THEORIES. 1  Nursing theory aims to describe, predict and explain the phenomenon of nursing (Chinn and Jacobs1978). 2  It should provide the foundations of nursing practice, help to generate further knowledge and indicate in which direction nursing should develop in the future (Brown 1964).
Through the use of nursing theories in practice, new knowledge and data are gleaned that can influence the future of nursing practice. Nursing Theory and the Nursing Process The nursing process is a scientific method used to ensure quality patient care that was first described in the 1950s and encompassed three steps.
This article aims to identify why nursing theory is important in practice. CONCLUSION: By giving nurses a sense of identity, nursing theory can help patients, managers and other healthcare professionals to recognise the unique contribution that nurses make to the healthcare service (Draper 1990).
Theory is defined as a belief, policy, or procedure proposed or followed as the basis of action. Nursing theory is an organized framework of concepts and purposes designed to guide the practice of nursing. The first nursing theories appeared in the late 1800s when a strong emphasis was placed on nursing education.
1 To understand why nursing theory is generally neglected on the wards. 2  A nrsing theory should have the characteristics of accessibility and clarity. 3  It is important that the language used in the development of nursing theory be used consistently.
Nursing theory; utilization & application, 5th ed by Reference & Research Book News. New nursing graduates enter the profession with a clear academic perspective of. and principles, but it is the responsibility of the health care community to provide a stable and clear path to competent nursing practice.
care-based theory a type of ethical theory of health care based on the two central constructive ideas of mutual interdependence and emotional response. The ethics of care is a rejection of impartial, principle-driven, dispassionate reasoning and judgment that has often dominated the models and paradigms of bioethics.
1 A nrsing theory should have the characteristics of accessibility and clarity. 2  It is important that the language used in the development of nursing theory be used consistently. 3  Many nurses have not had the training or experience to deal with the abstract concepts presented by nursing theory.