Another easy way to relax your eyes as well as to improve myopia is doing a gentle massage of your eyes. Just the body pains begin to improve after having a good massage; eyes also start to relax after a gentle massage. Just massage the muscles surrounding the eyes for a minute. Massage can be done with a finger tip.
Myopia is the inability to focus clearly upon distant objects. The rays of light which enter your eye are focused at a point in front of the retina, rather than directly on it. This is usually caused by too much near point stress such as: 1  Reading and writing. 2  Playing computer games.
Also known as myopia, nearsightedness is usually rectified with a number of different methods. The most common methods are glasses and contact lenses and in some cases people even resort to eye surgery to fix the problem. However, a lot of people dismiss the idea of doing eye exercises for nearsightedness!
Myopia, or nearsightedness, is not inherited but is caused by excessive reading and other close work. After doing prolonged close work, the focusing muscle inside the eye locks up into a state of near focus. Over time this leads to permanent nearsightedness, an abnormal lengthening of the eye.
Nearsightedness, or myopia, as it is medically termed, is a vision condition in which close objects are seen clearly, but objects farther away appear blurred. Nearsightedness occurs if the eyeball is too long or the cornea, the clear front cover of the eye, has too much curvature.
in Nearsightedness. Nearsightedness or short sightedness is a condition that many people will experience during their lifetime. The inability to focus on objects far away is due to weakened vision that is often a result of the natural aging process of your body.
Short sightedness, also referred to as nearsightedness and myopia, is an eye defect in which objects in the distance appear blurry while objects that are nearby appear in focus and clear. Nearsightedness is most commonly caused by a misshaped cornea, lens or eyeball.