Introduction To Bacteria, page 4  1999 Science in the Real World: Microbes in ActionThis material may be duplicated by teachers for use in the classroom. Any other use is prohibited. Bacterial Growth Curve Bacterial growth over time can be graphed as cell number versus time.
Microbes form most of the world's biomass: there are typically 40 million bacterial cells in a gram of soil and a million bacterial cells in a milliliter (gram) of fresh water. Studies have found bacteria in areas previously thought to be completely sterile.
Two types of microbes are bacteria and viruses. You’re surrounded by microbes all the time, and normally co-exist peacefully. Some types help you, like the bacteria in your digestive tract that help break down food. There are, however, some types of bacterium and viruses that can make you ill.
A new estimate has radically shrunk the number of microbes living beneath the sea floor. The ocean floor is home to a staggering 2.9×10 29 single-celled organisms — that's 10 million trillion microbes for every human on the planet — but vast though it is, this figure is only 8% of the previous estimate of 35.5×10 29.
Many millions of moving microbes make a mighty living munching manure in the soil. Each gram of soil may contain up to 1,000,000,000 or more microbes. That's as many microbes in a single gram of soil as there are people in all of China!
 1999 Science in the Real World: Microbes in ActionThis material may be duplicated by teachers for use in the classroom. Any other use is prohibited. INTRODUCTION TO BACTERIAMorphology and Classification Most bacteria (singular, bacterium) are very small, on the order of a few micrometers µ m (10 -6 meters) in length.
Normal, fertile soils teem with soil microbes. In fact, there may be hundreds of millions to billions of microbes in a single gram [about 4 hundredths of a pound and about the size of a navy bean in volume)(See Table 1)].
Not only are their many microbes in soil, there are many, many different species of microbes in soil. Some scientists estimate that each gram of soil may contain 10,000 different species of microorganisms! That's more biodiversity in one gram of soil than all the different types of mammals in the entire world.
Well, they may be half as many microbes than we thought, but they continue to live in the same places we live, and some of them have learned the way of living on us; it has no importance if there are ten millions or ten thousand microbes near you, if some of them make the way to you and produce a disease on you.
Bacteria are single-celled organisms. There are thousands of types of bacteria, and they live virtually anywhere. Bacteria are much bigger than viruses. (But they’re all way too small for you to see.) Bacteria are much more complex than viruses. Bacteria have the tools to reproduce themselves, by themselves.