The average precipitation per year is about 40 inches. The average precipitation for the summer is between 10-20 inches. The average precipitation for the winter is between 20-40 inches. The type of precipitation that falls in the taiga climate are rain in summer and mostly snow in winter. Something I find interesting about the climate of this biome is that the temperature can change from one extreme to another. For half of the year, the average temperature is below freezing. In the winter the average air temperature is warmer than it is for tundra, which lies north of the taiga. The taiga climate has an average annual rainfall of 12 - 33 inches (30 - 84 cm). Most of it falls in the summer as rain. The corresponding biome would be the Taiga biome. The global range for taiga goes all around the world from Alaska, to Canada, Scandinavia, Russia and China
These two factors (temperature and amount of rainfall) is what determines the type of biome. Temperature Range: The temperature in a boreal forest/taiga can range anywhere from as low as -60 degrees celsius (-76 degrees farenheit) in the winter to as high as 40 degrees celsius (104 degrees farenheit) in the summer. 
The average winter temperature is around -4°F and the average summer temperature is around 65°F. Precipitation in the taiga mostly falls during the summer. It has an average annual rainfall of 12 - 33 inches (30 - 84 cm). The climate during the summer is warm and humid. During the winter there is some precipitation, snow. In the taiga there are many extremes in the weather. The lowest temperature in the taiga is -76°F in the coldest part of winter. The highest temperature is +104°F during the middle of summer.
The temperature range is -65° F to 70°F (-54 to 21° C). For one half of the year, the temperature is below freezing. But the temperature is warmer than the temperature in the tundra. The taiga climate has an average annual rainfall of 12 - 33 inches (30 - 84 cm). Most of the precipitation falls in the summer as rain, but a portion of the precipitation does fall as sleet or snow in the winter
Precipitation occurs in two forms in the taiga. During the winter precipitation falls in the form of snow annually about 20-40(50.8-101.6cm) inches. The Taiga is categorized in the Dfc category. D says that the taiga is a snow climate and f says that the taiga has enough precipitation in all months. Rainfall usually occurs in the Taiga's moist summer having an average annual rainfall of 10-20 inches (25.4-50.8cm). This means that the average precipitation in the Taiga is annually about 40 inches(101.6cm). 
Climate: In the taiga there are many extremes in the weather. The lowest temperature in the taiga is -76°F in the coldest part of winter. The highest temperature is +104°F during the middle of summer.
Taiga Facts. I n the taiga, the average temperature is below freezing for six months of the year. Total yearly precipitation in the taiga is 12 - 33 inches (30 - 85 centimeters). Although the cold winters have some snowfall, most of the precipitation comes during the warm, humid summer months.
For example, Verkhoyansk, Russia, has recorded extremes of minus 90 ° Fand plus 90 ° F. Mean annual precipitation is 15 to 20 inches, but low evaporation rates make this a humid climate. Vegetation: Needleleaf, coniferous (gymnosperm) trees are the dominant plants of the taiga biome. 