A federal agency violates the Whistleblower Protection Act if agency authorities take (or threaten to take) retaliatory personnel action against any employee or applicant because of disclosure of information by that employee or applicant.
The Whistleblower Protection Act: An Overview Summary This report discusses the federal statutory protections contained within theWhistleblower Protection Act (WPA) for federal employees who engage in“whistleblowing,” that is, making a disclosure evidencing illegal or impropergovernment activities.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For the Act in India, see Whistle Blowers Protection Act, 2011. The Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989, Pub.L. 101-12 as amended, is a United States federal law that protects federal whistleblowers who work for the government and report agency misconduct.
A whistleblower is an employee that reports an employer's misconduct. There are laws that protect whistleblowers from being fired or mistreated for reporting misconduct. One of these laws is the Whistleblower Protection Act.
Since passage of the OSH Act in 1970, Congress has expanded OSHA's whistleblower authority to protect workers from discrimination under twenty-two federal laws. Complaints must be reported to OSHA within set timeframes following the discriminatory action, as prescribed by each law.
A whistleblower is someone that blows the whistle! No, not the tiny flute instrument. We're talking about someone that calls out, or reports, someone else's wrongdoing. A whistleblower is a person working within an organization who reports that organization's misconduct.
Assistance and information from a whistleblower who knows of possible securities law violations can be among the most powerful weapons in the law enforcement arsenal of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Corporate whistleblowers are protected by the Corporate and Criminal Fraud Accountability Act. This act is a subset of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which was enacted in 2002 as a direct answer to the issues raised by Enron and other corporate fraud scandals.
Datto. The Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (WPA) is a law that protects federal government employees in the United States from retaliatory action for voluntarily disclosing information about dishonest or illegal activities occurring at a government organization.