Elizabeth Dohrer, SPACE.com Contributor | September 25, 2012 06:55pm ET. The Soviet Union stunned the world on Nov. 3, 1957, with the launch of Sputnik 2. On board the small satellite was a little dog, Laika, the first animal to orbit Earth. However, Laika was not the first animal in space. The United States and the U.S.S.R. had been putting animals atop rockets since 1947. Laika, a mixed-breed dog, was the first living being in orbit.
Actually she died shortly after take off but the spacecraft itself, Sputnik II, was destroyed before it returned with Laika's body. Laika (from Russian: Barker) was a Russian space dog that became the first living creature from Earth to enter orbit. She was launched into space on Sputnik 2, a Soviet spacecraft, on November 3, 1957. Like many other animals in space, she died during the mission, though earlier than expected. The Russian pooch, unfortunately, had no way to return to Earth. After about a week in space, Laika died-the first living earth creature to leave the planet and enter space. First Animal in Space. November 3, 1957 The Soviet Union launches a female dog into space on Sputnik II. Her name is Laika, which means barker in Russian
We did not learn enough from this mission to justify the death of the dog. For other uses, see Laika (disambiguation) . Laika (Russian: лайка; c. 1954 – November 3, 1957) was a Soviet space dog who became one of the first animals in space, and the first animal to orbit the Earth. On April 11, 2008, Russian officials unveiled a monument to Laika. A small monument in her honour was built near the military research facility in Moscow that prepared Laika's flight to space. It features a dog standing on top of a rocket. She also appears on the Monument to the Conquerors of Space in Moscow
Contributor. Copy This URL. On this day in 1957, a stray mutt named Laika became the first animal ever to orbit the Earth. She was launched on Sputnik 2, a mission that reinforced the huge lead that the Soviet space program had over the Americans in the early years of the space race. 
Laika is Russian-literally-for barker!! The Soviet Union launched a dog named Laika into space aboard the Sputnik 2 space capsule. Laika is also the name for a typ … e of hunting dog. There are three breeds-the Russian European Laika, the East Siberian Laika and the West Siberian Laika. Note that Laika, the dog that went to space, is in fact a mongrel.
On November 3, 1957, Sputnik 2 launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome (now located in Kazakhstan near the Aral Sea). The rocket successfully reached space and the spacecraft, with Laika inside, began to orbit the earth. The spacecraft continued to orbit the earth with all its systems off until it reentered earth's atmosphere on April 14, 1958 and burned up on reentry. Laika proved that it was possible for a living being to enter space.
Laika entered the Russian space program having been captured as a stray from the streets of Moscow. Before Sputnik 2, rockets had been launched by both the Soviet Union and the U.S. with animals on board-mice, dogs and monkeys, but Laika was the first to reach the upper layers of the atmosphere in low Earth orbit. The first living creature in space was launched on a one way journey on 3 November 1957. Laika in her carrier (source). When, on 4 October 1957, the Soviet Union successfully launched Sputnik 1 as the world's first artificial satellite, the western world took notice.
No. Laika died in space a few hours after lift-off and the craft Laika was in eventually was destroyed as it returned into Earth's atmosphere five months later. The Soviet Union launched a dog named Laika into space aboard the Sputnik 2 space capsule. Laika is also the name for a typ … e of hunting dog. There are three breeds-the Russian European Laika, the East Siberian Laika and the West Siberian Laika.