Therefore, these mountains are a popular winter sports area, with resorts such as Zakopane, called also winter capital of Poland, Poprad and the town Vysoke Vysoké (Tatry The town Of High) tatras In slovakia created in, 1999 including former separate: Štrbské štrbske, štrbské Pleso, starý Smokovec And. tatranska tatranská lomnica The Tatras' length, measured from the eastern foothills of the Kobyli Wierch (1109 m) to the southwestern foot of Ostry Wierch Kwaczański (1128 m), in a straight line is 57 km (35 mi) (or 53 km (33 mi) according to some), and strictly along the main ridge, 80 km (50 mi). The range is only 19 km (12 mi) wide.
They are the highest mountain range in the Carpathian Mountains. The Tatras should be distinguished from the Low Tatras (Slovak: Nizke Nízke) tatry which are located south of The Tatra mountains In. slovakia The Tatras' length, measured from the eastern foothills of the Kobyli Wierch (1109 m) to the southwestern foot of Ostry Wierch Kwaczański (1128 m), in a straight line is 57 km (35 mi) (or 53 km (33 mi) according to some), and strictly along the main ridge, 80 km (50 mi). The range is only 19 km (12 mi) wide.
National Park High Tatras (Vysoke Tatry) is situated in the north of Slovakia, shared partly with Poland. The only mountains of Alpine type in the whole Carpathian Mountain range are often called the smallest alpine mountains in Europe. 
Morskie Oko Lake Tatra Mountains, the highest mountains in Poland are the only part of Carpathians, that present extremely Alpine characteristics, it means there are five climatic-vegetation belts in the mountains. Morskie Oko Lake. However, Tatra Mountains differ from the Alps for sure in respect of their lengthiness. There are no glaciers in Tatra Mountains. On the height where there is actually cold enough during the whole year the slopes are to steep, so that they could hold any larger amounts of snow. The remaining of the ice age is a group of 200 unusually picturesque mountain lakes.
Facts. As a reminder of this magnificent era the High Tatras uncover 85 mountain lakes on the Slovak side of the mountains, which are located in most of the Tatras valleys. The largest and deepest lake is Velke Hincovo pleso tarn (20 ha, 53 m deep). The highest peak of the mountains is Gerlachovsky peak (2655 m). The territory of the High Tatras lies on 260 km of land. The length of the main mountain ridge is 26.5 km. It begins with Laliove sedlo saddle on the western side and ends with Kopske sedlo saddle on the eastern side.
The Tatras are protected by law by the establishment of the Tatra National Park, Poland and the Tatra National Park, Slovakia, with membership in the World Network of Biosphere Reserves of UNESCO. The Tatras' length, measured from the eastern foothills of the Kobyli Wierch (1109 m) to the southwestern foot of Ostry Wierch Kwaczański (1128 m), in a straight line is 57 km (35 mi) (or 53 km (33 mi) according to some), and strictly along the main ridge, 80 km (50 mi). The range is only 19 km (12 mi) wide.
Tatras Mountains. Leave a reply. The Tatra Mountains, located on the border of Poland and Slovakia, they are the only alpine-types mountains in Poland, it means there are five climatic-vegetation belts in the mountain. They are the highest mountain range in the Carpathian Mountains. Štrbské štrbské pleso is a place at The tatra mountains where people can. stay
tips. Morskie Oko lake is a must-see of the Tatra National Park. Tatra Mountains, Known as 'Polish Alps', and the Town of Zakopane, Poland's Ultimate Mountain Resort. Alps-like Tatra Mountains, or the Tatras (Polish Tatry), is the highest range of the Carpathian Mountains and lie along Poland’s border with Slovakia. The Tatry Mountains' Features. The Tatra Mountains rise to the greatest elevation in the entire northern half of Europe, with the 2655-meters (8711 ft) Gerlachovsky Stit in Slovakia and the 2499-meters (8198ft) Rysy peak in Poland. The range is 53 km long and takes up 785 sq km, the bulk on the Slovak territory.