Enable and configure versioning for a list. Open the list for which you want to enable versioning. On the Settings menu, click List Settings. On the Settings page, in the General Settings section, click Versioning settings. On the List Versioning Settings page, in the Content Approval section, select the content approval option you want to apply to any list changes.
Hi, I am going to assume you are using SharePoint Server 2007 or WSS 3.0. When version history is turned on, the SharePoint document library will store a version of the file each time it is saved. However, SharePoint will only show you the most current version in the library.
When versioning is enabled, versions are created in the following situations: When a list item or file is first created or when a file is uploaded. Note If file check-out is required, you must check the file in to create its first version.
The Versioning Settings area in SharePoint 2010 contains probably some of the most sought after settings in any library or list. Versioning settings cover most of the document management or content management choices. So your new document/content management mantra is approval, versioning, and check out.
Turning on versioning control for Office 365's SharePoint Online libraries or lists is as easy as a few mouse clicks. Here’s how you do it: From your document library, click the Library tab on the Ribbon and go to Library Settings. Under General Settings, click Versioning Settings. From the Content Approval group, select either Yes or No to indicate whether or not a document needs to be approved first before it comes visible to the site users. From the Document Version History group, choose from one of the options for tracking version history.
Document libraries support version control at several levels. By default, versioning is not enabled, but is enabled in the document library settings. Versions are complete copies of the document, not deltas.
Each section requires decisions when you set up a list or library. Of course, if you have the necessary permissions, you can change the settings at a later date. Content Approval. Use this section to decide whether or not to require content approval for items submitted to the list. Item (or Document) Version History.