'calabaza' also found in translations in English-Spanish dictionary. acorn squash. acorn squash. n. calabaza. una variedad de calabaza (a Variety of pumpkin). cep, penny bun, porcino. cep, penny bun, porcino. n. hongo blanco, hongo pambazo, seta calabaza. Collins Spanish Dictionary 8th edition published in 2005 © William Collins Sons & Co Ltd 1971, 1988 © HarperCollins Publishers 1992, 1993, 1996, 1997, 2000, 2003, 2005.
Pumpkin seeds after shelling, roasting, and salting. Pepita (from Mexican Spanish: pepita de calabaza, little seed of squash) is a Spanish culinary term for the pumpkin seed, the edible seed of a pumpkin or other cultivar of squash (genus Cucurbita). The seeds are typically rather flat and asymmetrically oval, and light green in color and may have a white outer hull. 
The word calabaza is derived from the Persian term for melon (kharbuz). The French term calabasse, and hence the English calabash, is based on the older Spanish. In common use, calabash refers to a gourd native to the African continent, while calabaza refers to a gourd native to the Americas. It is eaten many different ways, such as in stews, cakes, and candies. Some recipes that call for pumpkin allow calabaza to be used in its place. The taste is smooth and somewhat sweet. Calabaza is a good source of beta-carotene, some of which can be converted into vitamin A.
In North America, the word calabaza refers to any of several species of tropical gourds of the genus Cucurbita. Two common species native to the Caribbean are C. moschata and C. maxima. It is eaten many different ways, such as in stews, cakes, and candies. Some recipes that call for pumpkin allow calabaza to be used in its place. The taste is smooth and somewhat sweet. Calabaza is a good source of beta-carotene, some of which can be converted into vitamin A.
It means What's up, dude. The Calabaza part is just added for rhyme. You cannot go around calling people pumpkin; it only works in this particular phrase, in exactly the same way as See you later, alligator. Calabasa are Lechoza, and lechoza is papaya (http://www.wikidominicana.edu.do/wiki/Lechoza). If your friend is from Spain i think is wrong and is calabaza, but if for Sud-America is possible is papaya.
Some squash are all one color while other calabaza are multi-colored and may include all of colors listed above. This squash is popular in the Caribbean as well as Central and South America. It is also commonly called a West Indian Pumpkin. Selection. Calabaza is often sold already chopped into chunks in many Latin markets. This is because of the difficulty many have in chopping the whole squash*.
CALABAZA SQUASH, West Indian Pumpkin. Calabaza is a type of pumpkin-like squash that is round in shape and varies in size. It can be as large as a watermelon or as small as a cantaloupe. The color of calabaza can also vary and may include greens, tans, reds and oranges. This squash is popular in the Caribbean as well as Central and South America. It is also commonly called a West Indian Pumpkin. Selection. Calabaza is often sold already chopped into chunks in many Latin markets. This is because of the difficulty many have in chopping the whole squash*.
Definition of CALABAZA. : a large winter squash (Cucurbita moschata) that resembles a pumpkin and is typically grown in the West Indies and tropical America. ADVERTISEMENT.
Calabaza (West Indian pumpkin) is a large winter squash (Cucurbita moschata) that resembles a pumpkin and is typically grown in the West Indies and tropical America.. It is eaten many different ways, such as in stews, cakes, and candies. Some recipes that call for pumpkin allow calabaza to be used in its place. The taste is smooth and somewhat sweet. Calabaza is a good source of beta-carotene, some of which can be converted into vitamin A.
In English to French. Another member wrote The pretty one. Usually it would be la jolie fille--the pretty girl.... In French, as some other languages, adjectives sometimes follow nouns. So the pro … per phrasing to say the pretty girl in French would be la jeune fille jolie. 