In common usage outside of Arabic-speaking countries, the word sukuk is often used both as singular as well as plural. (In proper Arabic, sukuk is plural, sakk is singular.) Use of the word sukuks when referring to more than one Islamic bond is incorrect. This is generally done by involving a tangible asset in the investment. For example, by giving partial ownership of a property built by the investment company to the bond owner who collect the profit as rent, which is allowed under Islamic law. Upon expiration of the Sukuk, the rent payments cease.
Set out on the following page is an example of a typical sukuk al-murabaha structure. Figure 1: Structure of Sukuk al-Murabaha. Overview of Structure. 1  Issuer SPV issues sukuk, which represent an undivided ownership interest in an underlying asset or transaction. This reduces the popularity of sukuk al-murabaha for potential investors and is reflected by the limited number of sukuk al-murabaha issuances in the sukuk market. An example of a sukuk al-murabaha issuance is: Arcapita Bank, US$200million issued in October 2005
In this case the issuer of the certificate is the seller of the Murabaha commodity, the subscribers are the buyers of that commodity, and the realised funds are the purchasing cost of the commodity. The negotiability of these Sukuk or their trading at the secondary market is not permitted by shariah, as the certificates represent a debt owing from the subsequent buyer of the Commodity to the certificate-holders and such trading amounts to trading in debt on a deferred basis, which will result in riba.
The most commonly used is where the sukuk relates to a partial ownership of an asset (sukuk al-ijarah). Other types of these bonds relate to partial ownership in in a debt (sukuk murabaha), project (sukuk al-istisna), business (sukuk al-musharaka), or investment (sukuk al-istithmar). By 2011 over more than $19bn had been raised through 30 issues of sukuk bonds on the London Stock Exchange.
Although the sukuk al-murabaha structure is less commonly used in comparison to some of the other sukuk structures described in this Chapter 2 (Sukuk Structures), it could be considered as a possible alternative where it is not possible to identify a tangible asset for the purposes of the underlying investment. This reduces the popularity of sukuk al-murabaha for potential investors and is reflected by the limited number of sukuk al-murabaha issuances in the sukuk market. An example of a sukuk al-murabaha issuance is: Arcapita Bank, US$200million issued in October 2005
What is till unclear is what happens to sukuk when they fail -- an issue that has not been tested in court. In Malaysia, some sukuk issues have junk status, and two other sukuk are already in default: the Easter Cameron Gas company in the United States and Investment Dar of Kuwait. This is generally done by involving a tangible asset in the investment. For example, by giving partial ownership of a property built by the investment company to the bond owner who collect the profit as rent, which is allowed under Islamic law. Upon expiration of the Sukuk, the rent payments cease.
Murabaḥah, murabaḥa or murabaḥah (Murâbaḥah مرابحة) مرابحه is An islamic term for a sale where the buyer and seller agree on the markup for the(item) s being. Sold in recent decades it has become a term for the most prevalent financing mechanism In (islamic.i.  e shariah) compliant, finance based on murabaḥa. purchases The Murabaha Bank will sell him the car for $12,000 and is willing to wait two years to receive the full price. Adam’s choice to purchase from the Murabaha Bank reflects his desire to not pay the full price of the car today. In other words, he prefers to pay part of the price today and be indebted with the rest.
As the sukuk certificates in a sukuk al-murabaha essentially represent entitlements to shares in receivables from the purchaser of the underlying murababa, they are not negotiable instruments that can be traded on the secondary market because Shari’a does not permit trading in debt except at par value. This reduces the popularity of sukuk al-murabaha for potential investors and is reflected by the limited number of sukuk al-murabaha issuances in the sukuk market. An example of a sukuk al-murabaha issuance is: Arcapita Bank, US$200million issued in October 2005
Instead it is seen as a profit on the sale of goods. Murabaha is similar to a rent-to-own arrangement, with the intermediary retaining ownership of the property until the loan is paid in full. The Murabaha Bank will sell him the car for $12,000 and is willing to wait two years to receive the full price. Adam’s choice to purchase from the Murabaha Bank reflects his desire to not pay the full price of the car today. In other words, he prefers to pay part of the price today and be indebted with the rest.