Recessive and dominant alleles. You will recall that genes have different forms called alleles. An allele can be recessive or dominant. A recessive allele only shows if the individual has two copies of the recessive allele. For example, the allele for blue eyes is recessive. You need two copies of the allele to have blue eyes. A dominant allele always shows, even if the individual only has one copy of the allele. For example, the allele for brown eyes is dominant
Recessive or dominant alleles. Alleles may be either recessive or dominant. 1  A recessive allele only shows if the individual has two copies of it. 2  For example, the allele for blue eyes is recessive. 3  You need two copies of this allele to have blue eyes. 
No disease. Sometimes, an individual can have two different dominant alleles in what is called co-dominance or additive traits. For example if you have both an A allele and a B allele, in the case of ABO blood type, then you will have blood type AB. The adjacent table some examples of dominant and recessive traits. 
1 These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 2  Alleles can be either dominant or recessive. 3  Dominant alleles show their effect even if the individual only has one copy of the allele (also known as being heterozygous). 1 Since human cells carry two copies of each chromosome they have two versions of each gene. 2  These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 3  Alleles can be either dominant or recessive.
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. For example, if p is the frequency of allele A, and q is the frequency of allele a then the terms p 2, 2 pq, and q 2 are the frequencies of the genotypes AA, Aa and aa respectively. Since the gene has only two alleles, all alleles must be either A or a and p + q = 1.
Organisms that reproduce sexually have two copies of each gene, one from each parent. These matching gene pairs are called alleles. A dominant allele masks the expression of the recessive gene’s trait. The alleles are homozygous if they code for the same trait and heterozygous if they code for different traits. A homozygous pair might have two dominant or two recessive alleles. Dominant genes are indicated by capital letters, recessives by small letters.
In eyes, it would be brown is dominant, and blue is recessive. Free earlobe allele is said to be dominant over the attached earlobe allele. When an organism has two dominant alleles for a trait, it is called homozygous dominant. Two recessive alleles for a trait is homozygous recessive. A gene pair that consists of two dominant alleles is called homozygous dominant, and a gene pair that consists of two recessive alleles is called homozygous recessive.
Different versions of a gene are called alleles. Alleles are described as either dominant or recessive depending on their associated traits. 1  Since human cells carry two copies of each chromosome they have two versions of each gene. 2  These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 3  Alleles can be either dominant or recessive. 1 Since human cells carry two copies of each chromosome they have two versions of each gene. 2  These different versions of a gene are called alleles. 3  Alleles can be either dominant or recessive.