A valence electron is an electron in the outer shell (or cloud or orbital as it is sometimes referred) farthest away from the nucleus. These are the electrons that are transfe … rred or shared in chemical bonding. (A full outer shell refers to atoms with (usually) 8 electrons in its outer shell.)   . two, two valence electron Oxygen has two valence electrons since it must gain two in order to obtain 8 electrons in its outermost energy level. However, the number of valence … electrons is six--not two. The valence and valence electrons are only the same for metals in Groups 1, 2, and 3.
In Chemistry, valence electrons are the electrons that are located in the outermost electron shell of an element. Knowing how to find the number of valence electrons in a particular atom is an important skill for chemists because this information determines the kinds of chemical bonds that it can form. 
The valence electrons (VE) are the electrons in the outer shell of an atom. The valence electrons are the ones involved in forming bonds to adjacent atoms. Therefore, the number of VE is important for determining the number of bonds an atom will form, the number of unpaired electrons, and an atom’s formal charge. 
The valence electrons are found on the valence shell, the outermost  shell of an atom.    By using the periodic table and the group numbers, one can find the  number … of valence electrons for elements in groups (vertical  columns) 1-2 and 13-18. two, two valence electron Oxygen has two valence electrons since it must gain two in order to obtain 8 electrons in its outermost energy level. However, the number of valence … electrons is six--not two. The valence and valence electrons are only the same for metals in Groups 1, 2, and 3.
The presence of valence electrons can determine the element's chemical properties and whether it may bond with other elements: For a main group element, a valence electron can only be in the outermost electron shell. In a transition metal, a valence electron can also be in an inner shell. Because the number of valence electrons which actually participate in chemical reactions is difficult to predict, the concept of the valence electron is less useful for a transition metal than for a main group element; the d electron count is an alternative tool for understanding the chemistry of a transition metal.
Medical Definition of VALENCE ELECTRON. : a single electron or one of two or more electrons in the outer shell of an atom that is responsible for the chemical properties of the atom. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : a single electron or one of two or more electrons in the outer shell of an atom that is responsible for the chemical properties of the atom. ADVERTISEMENT
Like an electron in an inner shell, a valence electron has the ability to absorb or release energy in the form of a photon. An energy gain can trigger an electron to move (jump) to an outer shell; this is known as atomic excitation. Because the number of valence electrons which actually participate in chemical reactions is difficult to predict, the concept of the valence electron is less useful for a transition metal than for a main group element; the d electron count is an alternative tool for understanding the chemistry of a transition metal.
Definition of Valence ElectronsTo define valence electrons the electrons in the last shell (outermost shell) are called valence electrons.. These electrons govern the chemical properties of the atoms. Valence electrons are mainly responsible for the emission spectra of the elements. 
In chemistry, a valence electron is an electron that is associated with an atom, and that can participate in the formation of a chemical bond; in a single covalent bond, both atoms in the bond contribute one valence electron in order to form a shared pair. Because the number of valence electrons which actually participate in chemical reactions is difficult to predict, the concept of the valence electron is less useful for a transition metal than for a main group element; the d electron count is an alternative tool for understanding the chemistry of a transition metal.