PCV is an acronym for Positive Crankcase Ventilation. This valve is needed to relieve the pressure built up in the crankcase that is created by the heating of the air inside the engine. If this valve were not present and the pressure went unchecked, it would blow out the seals and gaskets inside your engine.     PCV stands for Positive Crankcase Ventilation. This replaceable valve replaced the vent pipe on the engine, this got rid of the fumes and or pressure that builds up in the crankcase, nowadays the crankcase does not vent into the environment. Answer   A PCV valve is a valve (or fixed orifice metering device) which adjusts airflow through the PCV system to allow PCV operation without adversely affection … fuel metering. The PCV system moves air from the air cleaner through the crankcase, then into the engine intake.
The PCV valve connects the crankcase to the intake manifold from a location more-or-less opposite the breather connection. Typical locations include the opposite valve cover that the breather tube connects to on a V engine. The PCV system just diverts a small percentage of this air via the breather to the crankcase before allowing it to be drawn back into the intake tract again. It is an open system in that fresh exterior air is continuously used to flush contaminants from the crankcase and into the combustion chamber.
This way, the PCV valve is very important for different aspects and helps car owners maintaining their car’s engines in shape as well as providing them with a good administration of the fuel economy. The PCV valve routes crankcase partially burned gases back to the engine. Once these gases go back to the engine, they are re-burned, allowing this way a better use and administration of fuel. Due to its tasks, the PCV valve is not only very useful but also implies important benefits. It completely eliminates crankcase emissions efficiently, avoiding that it becomes an air pollution factor. Besides, it also keeps the system free of moisture due to the constant air circulation that it implies.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
The PCV valve is only one part of the PCV system, which is essentially a variable and calibrated air leak, whereby the engine returns its crankcase combustion gases to the air intake. The PCV system just diverts a small percentage of this air via the breather to the crankcase before allowing it to be drawn back into the intake tract again. It is an open system in that fresh exterior air is continuously used to flush contaminants from the crankcase and into the combustion chamber.
The PCV system usually consists of the 'breather tube' and the 'PCV valve'. The breather tube connects the crankcase to a clean source of fresh air—the air cleaner body. The PCV system just diverts a small percentage of this air via the breather to the crankcase before allowing it to be drawn back into the intake tract again. It is an open system in that fresh exterior air is continuously used to flush contaminants from the crankcase and into the combustion chamber.
%DETAILS%     PCV stands for positive crankcase ventilation. They are usually right in plain sight on top of the valve cover. If you had one you probably could have ch … anged it yourself in about 30 seconds or less. Answer   A PCV valve is a valve (or fixed orifice metering device) which adjusts airflow through the PCV system to allow PCV operation without adversely affection … fuel metering. The PCV system moves air from the air cleaner through the crankcase, then into the engine intake.
Thus the PCV valve extends the life of the oil and engine. The PCV valve requires little maintenance. The valve and filter should be replaced somewhere around 30,000 to 50,000 miles(see the vehicle owners manual for service intervals). PCV is an acronym for Positive Crankcase Ventilation. This valve is needed to relieve the pressure built up in the crankcase that is created by the heating of the air inside the engine. If this valve were not present and the pressure went unchecked, it would blow out the seals and gaskets inside your engine. PCV stands for Positive Crankcase Ventilation. This replaceable valve replaced the vent pipe on the engine, this got rid of the fumes and or pressure that builds up in the crankcase, nowadays the crankcase does not vent into the environment. The PCV valve is located on the right side of the engine, between the base of the oil filter and the base of the PCV valve which is located near the front of the e … ngine just below the thermostat housing. Locate the oil filter then look toward the front of the engine.