Occupational therapists use the occupations of self-care, work, and play/leisure activities to increase independence, enhance development, and/or prevent disability. To achieve these goals occupational therapists may also adapt the task or the environment. The occupational therapist helps people of all ages (from newborns to older adults) who have an illness or disability to do those things that are important and meaningful to them such as eating, dressing, school activities, and work.
In its simplest terms, occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants help people across the lifespan participate in the things they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of everyday activities (occupations). 
Occupational therapy is a health and rehabilitation profession. Occupational therapists work with people of all ages who need specialized assistance to lead independent, productive, and satisfying lives due to physical, developmental, social, or emotional problems. The occupational therapist helps people of all ages (from newborns to older adults) who have an illness or disability to do those things that are important and meaningful to them such as eating, dressing, school activities, and work.
Occupational Therapy, often abbreviated as  OT , is an applied science and health profession that provides skilled treatment to help individuals achieve and maintain independence in all facets of their lives. OT gives people the skills for the job of living necessary for independent and satisfying lives. The primary goal of occupational therapy is to enable people to participate in the activities of everyday life. Occupational therapists achieve this outcome by enabling people to do things that will enhance their ability to participate or by modifying the environment to better support participation..
Occupational therapy (OT) is the use of assessment and treatment to develop, recover, or maintain the daily living and work skills of people with a physical, mental, or cognitive disorder. Occupational therapists also focus much of their work on identifying and eliminating environmental barriers to independence and participation in daily activities. Occupational therapy is a client-centered practice that places emphasis on the progress towards the client's goals.
Definition Occupation. In occupational therapy, occupations refer to the everyday activities that people do as individuals, in families and with communities to occupy time and bring meaning and purpose to life. Occupations include things people need to, want to and are expected to do. Definition of Occupational Therapy. Occupational therapy is a client-centred health profession concerned with promoting health and well being through occupation. The primary goal of occupational therapy is to enable people to participate in the activities of everyday life.
Occupational therapy. Occupational therapy is the use of treatments to develop, recover, or maintain the daily living and work skills of patients with a physical, mental or developmental condition. Occupational therapy is a client-centered practice that places a premium on the progress towards the client’s goals. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: occupational therapy (noun). therapy based on engagement in meaningful activities of daily life, especially to enable or encourage participation in such activities in spite of impairments or limitations in physical or mental functions.
Occupational therapists work in a variety of settings. These could include hospitals, rehabilitation centers, nursing facilities, home health, outpatient clinics, private practice, school systems, private organizations, industry, and community agencies such as return to work programs, prisons, and community settings. The occupational therapist helps people of all ages (from newborns to older adults) who have an illness or disability to do those things that are important and meaningful to them such as eating, dressing, school activities, and work.