Wildebeest Biology. There are two species of wildebeest, both in Africa. The black wildebeest (Connochaetes gnou) is less common, and occurs in southern Africa. We are studying the white-bearded wildebeest (Connochaetes taurinus), sometimes called the blue wildebeest and common in East Africa. Wildebeest are grazers, allies of antelope, cattle, and other even-toed hooved animals. Calves are redish, with dark heads and a dark strip down their back. Wildebeest live in savannas, grasslands, shrublands, and open forests, often in the company of other grazers such as zebra and gazelles. Wildebeest form small or large groups. In the breeding season, one or a few males will form a territory, and gather females into group
The wildebeest (also called a gnu) is a member of the antelope family. It has a large, box-like head with curving horns. The front end of the body is heavily built, while the hindquarters are slender with spindly legs. The famous Serengeti population of wildebeest is a very large nomadic group. This group makes a migratory circle of 500 to 1,000 miles each year, beginning right after the calving season at the start of the year. They are relentless in their advance and many are injured, lost (especially calves), or killed.
There are two species of wildebeest, both in Africa. The black wildebeest (Connochaetes gnou) is less common, and occurs in southern Africa. Calves are redish, with dark heads and a dark strip down their back. Wildebeest live in savannas, grasslands, shrublands, and open forests, often in the company of other grazers such as zebra and gazelles. Wildebeest form small or large groups. In the breeding season, one or a few males will form a territory, and gather females into groups
Habitat Wildebeests live in Africa. They can be found from Kenya to South Africa, living in woodlands and grasslands. They eat mainly grass and other smaller vegetation. Grasslands are drier areas that have, as the name implies, a lot of grass and woody plants. One type of grassland common in Africa is the savanna. Many wildebeests can be found grazing there. Woodlands are areas filled with trees so close that they can form a canopy. Physical Description Many people find wildebeests to be odd looking creatures. They have horns and hindquarters similar to that of antelopes, yet a face, mane, and tail that look a lot like those of horses. Because of their odd physical appearance, they were called “wild beast” or, in Afrikaans, wildebeest.
Their main adaptation is the way they travel and migrate in herds, to prevent the amount of predation. Other adaptations are : - They have a wide row of incisors for grazing - … Strong legs for running and stampeding-Eyes on the side of their head for a wider view, if any predators are near. 14 people found this useful. Confidence votes 33. An adaption for a wildabeest would have to be from their climate which is hot an dry. One of their adaptions is able to not drink water for long periods of time. That's one or another would be to have horns to defend thereselve or to run fast to get away from predators.
An adaption for a wildabeest would have to be from their climate which is hot an dry. Confidence votes 33. An adaption for a wildabeest would have to be from their climate which is hot an dry. One of their adaptions is able to not drink water for long periods of time. That's one or another would be to have horns to defend thereselve or to run fast to get away from predators.
This Site Might Help You. RE: Am I missing any wildebeest adaptations? Ok, so I have been doing animal adaptations in school, and I have thought of my own example-can anyone add to what I think is correct and/or verify any of this? 
The wildebeests, also called gnus or wildebai, are a genus of antelopes, Connochaetes. They belong to the family Bovidae, which includes antelopes, cattle, goats, sheep and other even-toed horned ungulates. Connochaetes includes two species, both native to Africa: the black wildebeest, or white-tailed gnu (C. gnou); and the blue wildebeest, or brindled gnu (C. taurinus). Wildebeest inhabit the plains and open woodlands of parts of Africa south of the Sahara. The black wildebeest is native to the southernmost parts of the continent. Its historical range included South Africa, Swaziland and Lesotho, but in the latter two countries it was hunted to extinction in the 19th century.
The Wildebeest Migration, is one of the “Seven New Wonders of the World” and also known as The World Cup of Wildlife. If there is a safari you should go on, this has it be it. The Maasai Mara and the Serengeti National Park together form what no other reserve in Africa can! 