Definition. The capitalized cost is a key figure in your lease. It's the amount of the car's value you are actually financing during the term of the lease. As a result, it is one of the main drivers of your monthly lease payment, along with your interest rate. The capitalized cost is also called the cap cost. 
Car Leasing Help.com. The capitalized cost, sometimes referred to as the “negotiated cost” or “lease price,” is essentially the agreed upon value of the car between you and the dealer. Capitalized Cost of a Lease. The capitalized cost, sometimes referred to as the “negotiated cost” or “lease price,” is essentially the agreed upon value of the car between you and the dealer. The capitalized cost of the vehicle is negotiable, and you must fight to get the price down if you want a good deal.
Cap Cost Reduction. Cap cost reduction in a car lease occurs when you lower the cap cost of the vehicle. A cap cost reduction results in lower monthly lease payments. Both buyers and dealers contribute to the reduction of cap cost. 
Capitalized Cost (Cap Cost). The capitalized cost is the purchase price of the vehicle. This will sometimes be referred to as Cap Cost. You may have heard of MSRP (Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price) - this is just the list price of the vehicle to a customer. 
Cap Reduction. A cap reduction is basically just a down payment made on a lease. It reduces the total cost of the vehicle by the amount that you pay. This is similar to the down payment made on an automobile purchase.
Capitalized Cost. The capitalized cost is simply your agreed upon purchase price of the car you are leasing after all discounts and down payments are applied. While the MSRP is the car maker’s suggested retail price of the car your are buying, the cap cost is the price you actually agree to pay for the car.
Example. Assuming you agreed to lease a vehicle for $25,000 and paid an initial cap reduction of $2,000 as a down payment on the lease, you would end up paying interest on the remaining $23,000 and a one time tax on the $2,000. A cap reduction is basically just a down payment made on a lease. It reduces the total cost of the vehicle by the amount that you pay. This is similar to the down payment made on an automobile purchase.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A capitalized cost reduction is a term that is commonly associated with the auto sales industry due to its application in the lease and sale of vehicles. 
gross capitalized cost. In car leasing, the price the buyer and the dealer have agreed to for the car, plus any service contracts, insurance, and other items for which the buyer is paying the dealer. 
DEFINITION of 'Capitalized Cost Reduction'. Any upfront payment that reduces the cost of financing. Capitalized cost reduction is generally associated with the purchase or lease of an automobile, and reduces the monthly payment owed if the vehicle is financed. 