Download article as a PDF. To be negligent is to act, or fail to act, in a way that causes injury to another person. But no one's perfect and accidents happen to the best of us. What separates a common accident from an act of negligence, however, is the  standard of care  required in a given situation. By neglecting the proper standard of care for a given situation, an individual may be found liable for any resulting injuries.
Negligence (Lat. negligentia, from neglegere, to neglect, literally not to pick up something) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances. The area of tort law known as negligence involves harm caused by carelessness, not intentional harm. If the court can find that, as a matter of law, the defendant owed no duty of care to the plaintiff, the plaintiff will lose his case for negligence before having a chance to present to the jury. Cardozo's view is the majority view. However, some courts follow the position put forth by Judge Andrews.
Held: The defendant was found liable as he was expected to meet the standard of care required for a reasonable adult. This article can be found online at www.bitsoflaw.org/tort/negligence/study-note/degree/breach-of-duty-standard-reasonable-care where links to further resources are available. Introduction. In order to prove liability in Negligence, the claimant must show. that: the defendant owed a duty of care, breached that duty by failing to meet the standard of care required and as a result the claimant suffered loss or damage which is not too remote.
Whether the standard of care has been breached is determined by the trier of fact, and is usually phrased in terms of the reasonable person. The standard of care is important because it determines the level of negligence required to state a valid cause of action. In the business world the standard of care taken can be described as Due Diligence or performing a Channel Check.
Application of the Standard: In negligence cases, the standard of care refers to the amount of precaution and diligence taken by the individual who duty it is to provide care to the plaintiff. The general public is held to the reasonable person standard, while professionals are held to the professional standard of care. There are generally three degrees of negligence: slight negligence, gross negligence, and reckless negligence. Slight negligence is found in cases where a defendant is required to exercise such a high degree of care, that even a slight breach of this care will result in liability.
For the English law, see standard of care in English law. In tort law, the standard of care is the only degree of prudence and caution required of an individual who is under a duty of care. The requirements of the standard are closely dependent on circumstances. The standard of care is important because it determines the level of negligence required to state a valid cause of action. In the business world the standard of care taken can be described as Due Diligence or performing a Channel Check.
Diffen › Legal. Negligence is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances. In tort law, negligence applies to harm caused by carelessness, not intentional harm. Malpractice is a type of negligence; it is often called professional negligence. It occurs when a licensed professional (like a doctor, lawyer or accountant) fails to provide services as per the standards set by the governing body (standard of care), subsequently causing harm to the plaintiff. 