Yes that should be OK, as the chicks will have to stay in the incubator for a while after hatching. Be sure to turn off the turner when the chicks begin to hatch, so you will have to turn the unhatched eggs yourself. Eddie · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. Trouble with trying to hatch two batches is that the temperature is dropped down to 37 degrees C and the humidity increased to 75% for hatching. Now to do that you will be at risk of effecting the other eggs that are a week behind.
Chicks ingest the yolk shortly before hatching. They can be left in the incubator for up to 3 days while the rest of the eggs hatch. You will be tempted to reach in very quickly and take one or two out. The experts tell you not to do that. 
Once you place a fertilized egg under the incubator, it will normally take about 21 days before the chick comes out. Each model of incubator has its own instructions, and it is very important that you follow them. Generally, the temperature should be kept constant at around 99 degrees Fahrenheit. For those new to hatching chicken eggs, if your incubator does not have an automatic egg turner, you will have to do this yourself, three times a day, by hand.
Best Answer: you should stop the turn on the 18 / 19th day so that the chick can start pipping. Trouble with trying to hatch two batches is that the temperature is dropped down to 37 degrees C and the humidity increased to 75% for hatching. Now to do that you will be at risk of effecting the other eggs that are a week behind.
Chicken eggs should hatch 21 days after they first start in an incubator. (Remember that your eggs have already been incubated for 14 days before you receive them!) Other bird species have different incubation times. For instance, duck eggs take 28 days to hatch; goose eggs take 30 days. The hatching process actually starts about day 18, when the chicks start to prepare to break out of the egg.
You should take your eggs out of the turner on day #18. Then don't touch them until after they hatch. ~~Ed. I thank God for all that I have; 1 Wife, 3 boys, 4 dogs, 4 cat, 2 Horses, 4 Goats, 2 Katahdin Sheep, 9 Ducks, 6 Geese, 8 Guineas, 1 Turkey, and lots of chickens. Reply. K the egg turner is out, It was only one egg, Now the eggs moving around in the bottom I guess the chicks excited. 4 Barred rock hens, A RIR hen, A white rock hen, A wellsummer cross, a australorp hen, 1 pullet (leghorn), 1 cockeral RSL, 1 RSL hen, and 3 black sex links...
On day 18, remove the eggs from the turner and put them on the wire mesh that is normally included. Do not turn the eggs anymore. The chicks will hatch naturally, and it is important that you allow this to happen. It can take as much as a full day for a chick to get out of its egg, and you must not interfere. For those new to hatching chicken eggs, if your incubator does not have an automatic egg turner, you will have to do this yourself, three times a day, by hand.
An incubator or brooder is designed to bring normal room temperature to the desired temperature. Room temperature of 60 degrees F. or below will reduce the temperature in the incubator. Room temperature changes of 10 degrees or more will change the temperature in the incubator. The automatic turner must be removed from the incubator or the eggs must be moved to a separate incubator for hatching. Do not attempt to hatch eggs while the turner is in the incubator, as the slow turning egg racks could crush the chicks. Lay eggs on wire floor with small end pointed slightly down.
Eggs should not be keep more than 10 days to 2 weeks after they have been set. Eggs that are to held several days before incubation should be held at a slanted position (35 degrees) You can do this by using a egg carton and proping it up with an object at 35 degrees. Once you have your egg candler you will need to take your egg in a dark room and place the candler under the egg. Once the light shines through you will be able to tell if your egg is fertile. After 72 hours in the incubator you can take the egg out and check. If the egg has a dark spot in it it
When you put cold eggs in incubator, it can take three hours or more for eggs to warm up and temperature to stabilize at the setting you had before adding the eggs. Also, when you open the incubator, it can take up to two hours for temperature to stabilize. The automatic turner must be removed from the incubator or the eggs must be moved to a separate incubator for hatching. Do not attempt to hatch eggs while the turner is in the incubator, as the slow turning egg racks could crush the chicks. Lay eggs on wire floor with small end pointed slightly down.