Green Giant arborvitae, a cultivar of West Coast native evergreen Thuja plicata, has numerous uses in a landscape. It works well as a hedge, foundation plant and evergreen screen. Green Giant arborvitae grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 5 through 7, as well as higher zones where summer temperatures are not extreme.
Measure 4 feet away from the chain link fence at the starting point where you wish to place your first tree. Set a stake in the ground at this point. Tie string to the stake and walk to the end of the chain link fence, with the string in your hand, to the location for your last tree. Put a stake in at this point and tie the string to it. The string will be your guide to keep the trees in a straight row.
Answers. Best Answer: 1) 8-10 feet is probably the best choice unless you intend to prune it regularly once it reaches maximum size. Arborvitae tolerate a decent range of soils, so even poor soil quality would likely just slow growth instead of inhibiting it. Since the trees get 20 ft wide (many years later), it sound like 10 ft. 2) How to you top off the tree to restrict its upward growth? I want it maybe 15 ft high, but to get thick/wide. I don't want it to get too tall in case I get bagworms and need to spray the tree.
Can you tell me: 1) How far to plant from my privacy fence? Since the trees get 20 ft wide (many years later), it sound like 10 ft 2) How to you top off the tree to restrict its upward growth? I want it maybe 15 ft high, but to get thick/wide. I don't want... show more Hi, I was going to plant one of these trees. Since the trees get 20 ft wide (many years later), it sound like 10 ft. 2) How to you top off the tree to restrict its upward growth? I want it maybe 15 ft high, but to get thick/wide. I don't want it to get too tall in case I get bagworms and need to spray the tree.
After much research I bought 6 Thuja Green Giants today and they are 5-6 ft. tall. I am wanting to plant them against the back fence and wondered how close I can put them since my yard isn't huge. Also the nursery recommended 6 ft spacing apart on the centers. 
I already have a few that are in the ground and are about 30-32  from the fence line. I planted these last July and they... show more Hi, I have a 6ft vinyl privacy fence and wanted to plant the Emerald Green Arborvitae. I know that you should plant 3-4 feet apart. 
These are large 3' tall Thuja Green Giants in 1 Gallon Containers! No other plant can beat Thuja Green Giant for creating a colorful, evergreen privacy fence in your garden. This rapidly growing evergreen Hedge Plant can grow over 3' per year if given copius amounts of water and fertilizer throughout the growing season. 
Thuja ‘Green Giant’ is a fast-growing tree that can grow up to three feet a year. The mature height is 60 feet. It will reach 30 feet in 30 years, with a final spread of 12-20 feet. On its own, it makes a majestic focal point tree for the corner of the yard. Planted in a row, it forms a dense hedge quickly. To achieve this effect, plant Thuja ‘Green Giant’ trees 8 feet apart in a row. If you want to maintain the pyramidal/conical form, plant the trees 14 feet apart in a row. The closer together you plant, the denser the hedge and the more trimming you’ll have to do to maintain shape
I was/am trying to create a screen between my yard and road that runs along the side of it, so I planted 15 emerald green arborvitae as a hedge. They are spaced 4 four apart and 30 inches in from my 4 foot high picket fence. Now that I'm done, I'm starting to worry that the arbs are too close to the fence. 
I always get asked “How far from a fence should I plant my Thuja Green Giants”. The answer is simply “8 feet” from the fence. If you plant closer than this you risk having the plants grow into the fence. Just another quick tip for planting your Thuja Green Giant Trees! 