Background. Hypovolemic shock refers to a medical or surgical condition in which rapid fluid loss results in multiple organ failure due to inadequate circulating volume and subsequent inadequate perfusion. Most often, hypovolemic shock is secondary to rapid blood loss (hemorrhagic shock)
Hypovolemia Definition. Hypovolemia is a condition, where the blood volume decreases, otherwise decrease in blood plasma volume occurs. Thus, it is the volume contraction’s intravascular component, or blood volume loss due to hemorrhage and dehydration. Hence, sometimes, volume contraction and hypovolemia are used synonymously. 
Hypovolemia is a decrease in the volume of blood in your body, which can be due to blood loss or loss of body fluids. Blood loss can result from external injuries, internal bleeding, or certain obstetric emergencies. Diarrhea and vomiting are common causes of body fluid loss. Fluid can also be lost as a result of large burns, excessive perspiration, or diuretics. Inadequate fluid intake can also cause hypovolemia. In some circumstances, body fluid loss, such as that caused by vomiting and diarrhea, can be reversed with increased fluid consumption and hypovolemia averted. In other cases, however, blood or fluid losses may be severe enough to warrant medical intervention.
Common causes of hypovolemia are. 1  Loss of blood (external or internal bleeding or blood donation). 2  Loss of plasma (severe burns and lesions discharging fluid). 3  Loss of body sodium and consequent intravascular water; e.g. diarrhea or vomiting. Hypovolemia can be recognized by tachycardia, diminished blood pressure, and the absence of perfusion as assessed by skin signs (skin turning pale) and/or capillary refill on forehead, lips and nail beds. The patient may feel dizzy, faint, nauseated, or very thirsty.
Symptoms and signs of hypovolemia (pale, cool and moist skin, increased heart rate, weak pulse) may not be present until the blood volume decreases for more than 10-20%, when hypovolemic shock starts to develop. Hypovolemia means any decrease in the blood volume and does not already mean hypovolemic shock. For example, donation of 500 mL blood causes hypovolemia, but usually not shock 12. Hypovolemic shock may start to develop at 10-20% blood loss (0.5-1 liter blood) because of inadequate perfusion of the body tissues
Hypovolemic shock, also known as hemorrhagic shock, is a life-threatening condition that results when you lose more than 20 percent (one-fifth) of your body’s blood or fluid supply. This severe fluid loss makes it impossible for the heart to pump a sufficient amount of blood to your body. 
The symptoms of shock caused by hypovolemia can vary greatly, according to several factors. The most influential factors are the amount of blood or body fluid that has been lost and the rate at which the fluid loss occurred. Generally, symptoms are most severe when a large amount of fluid has been lost very rapidly. In all cases of hypovolemia, the root cause of decreased blood volume is loss of body fluids. Typically this occurs as the result of severe, sudden blood loss.