Hi 53,What do you mean by underline word? Maybe you are talking about the 'underscore'? But an underscore can't be part of a web address. You can use the underscore only in the first part of an email address. 
up vote 0 down vote. This exception can be caused by having an invalid email address in the from attribute of the smtp element of the app.config file. Although that would cause any attempt to send email to throw an exception, regardless of whether the to email address contained a dash or not. 
up vote 2 down vote. Check for @ and. and then send an email for them to verify. I still can't use my .name email address on 20% of the sites on the internet because someone screwed up their email validation, or because it predates the new addresses being valid. 
Can you have a dash in an email address? because I thought you coudln't. its an for a hotmail? 
You can have your e-mail ID as mistralhyphen23@yahoo.com Well, leaving the joke apart, a hyphen can be used in an e-mail ID to indicate a space between two characters, words or numbers. The only thing is, you cannot have a hyphen at the begining of the ID like-mistral23@yahoo.com. Hobby · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 
ninja is correct that an underscore is a legal character, but it should not be interpreted as a substitute for a hyphen. That is, if the correct email address has a hyphen, substituting an underscore should not work since both hyphens and underscores are legal characters. Posts: 20,938. The underLINE you're seeing with the email address is either because it is a link on a webpage/email, or because it has been underlined in HTML-the underline is NOT part of the actual address that you have to fill in. However, an underSCORE is like a hyphen, only it's at the bottom of the character space
I'm trying to set up a domain name, but I'm having problems. Most of the names I would like to use are already taken. I know you can use an underscore (_) in a domain name and a dash (-). Are there any other special characters I can use. Specifically, I'd like to use the single quote (') to use Amelia's. Thanks, Amelia. Discussion is locked. Flag. Permalink. The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. 
Best Answer: no you cant put a dash (-) but she probably ment an underscore (_) those you can use in emails just hold shift when you press the dash button. Source(s): bored · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. My mom was trying to give me someones e-mail address and she said dash, and I told her I don't think uou can put a dash in an e-mail address, so can you?