Bronchospasm is a respiratory phenomenon that is described as the unusual narrowing or constriction of the airways. This condition is said to imitate asthma, or simply it is a presenting symptom of an asthma attack. A chronic lung disease is also associated with this condition. Acute bronchospasm is a sudden airway constriction that is common in asthmatics. Coughing and wheezing are the common presenting symptoms of the respiratory problem.
Bronchospasm is an abnormal contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi, resulting in an acute narrowing and obstruction of the respiratory airway. A cough with generalized wheezing usually indicates this condition. Bronchospasm is a chief characteristic of asthma and bronchitis. Description Bronchospasm is a temporary narrowing of the bronchi (airways into the lungs) caused by contraction of the muscles in the lung walls, by inflammation of the lung lining, or by a combination of both. This contraction and relaxation is controlled by the autonomic nervous system.
Bronchospasm is a constriction or spasm of the bronchi. The bronchi refers to the two tubes that branch from the trachea to the lungs. Typically, bronchospasm occurs in people of any age, however, it can be especially ominous in infants. 
Definition. Bronchospasm is an abnormal contraction of the smooth muscle of the bronchi, resulting in an acute narrowing and obstruction of the respiratory airway. A cough with generalized wheezing usually indicates this condition. Bronchospasm is a chief characteristic of asthma and bronchitis. Description. Bronchospasm is a temporary narrowing of the bronchi (airways into the lungs) caused by contraction of the muscles in the lung walls, by inflammation of the lung lining, or by a combination of both. This contraction and relaxation is controlled by the autonomic nervous system. 
1 Bronchospasm in and of itself is not a disease, but rather a symptom of other conditions such as asthma and bronchitis. 2  Bronchospasm is a narrowing and contraction of the bronchi, which results in the narrowing of the airway. 3  Bronchospasm comes in two different forms; Paradoxical bronchospasm and acute bronchospasm. 
Definition of BRONCHOSPASM. : constriction of the air passages of the lung (as in asthma) by spasmodic contraction of the bronchial muscles. — bron·cho·spas·tic \ˌbraeŋ-ˌbräŋ-kə-ˈspas\ tik. ADJECTIVE. advertisement 
Bronchospasm or a bronchial spasm is a sudden constriction of the muscles in the walls of the bronchioles. It is caused by the release (degranulation) of substances from mast cells or basophils under the influence of anaphylatoxins. It causes difficulty in breathing which can be very mild to severe. Bronchospasm are caused by a number of reasons. Lower respiratory tract diseases such as Pneumonia, Asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), and Emphysema can result in contraction of the airways. Other causes are side effects of topical decongestants such as Oxymetazoline and Phenylephrine.
Bronchospasm: Definition, Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment. Bronchospasm (definition) is defined as constriction of bronchi and bronchioles. It can generally happen due to 3 factors: - a spasm in the smooth muscles of bronchi and bronchioles. - an inflammation of the airways. - excessive production of sputum (mucus) due to an allergic reaction or possible irritation caused by mechanical friction of air (due to shear stress), overcooling or drying of airways (i.e., during exercise induced asthma).
Bronchospasms are a possible side effect of some drugs: pilocarpine (which is used to treat illness resulting from the ingestion of deadly nightshade, as well as other things), beta blockers (used to treat hypertension), a paradoxical result of using LABA drugs (to treat COPD) and other drugs. Bronchospasm are caused by a number of reasons. Lower respiratory tract diseases such as Pneumonia, Asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), and Emphysema can result in contraction of the airways. Other causes are side effects of topical decongestants such as Oxymetazoline and Phenylephrine.