Vitamin A is essential for good health. It promotes growth, the immune system, reproduction, and vision. However, recent research suggests that too much vitamin A, particularly in the form of retinol, may be bad for your bones. We get vitamin A from a variety of sources. Two of the most common sources are retinol and beta-carotene. Retinol is sometimes called “true” vitamin A because it is nearly ready for the body to use. Retinol is found in such animal foods as liver, eggs, and fatty fish.
We get vitamins from food, because the human body either does not produce enough of them, or none at all. An organic compound contains carbon. When an organism (living thing) cannot produce enough of an organic chemical compound that it needs in tiny amounts, and has to get it from food, it is called a vitamin. 
Basically, your body needs vitamins in order to work properly, and it needs different vitamins to help perform specific activities like produce energy, protect cells from damage, guide mineral utilization, and regulate cell and tissue growth. 
Beta-carotene is a precursor for vitamin A. The body needs to convert it to retinol or vitamin A for use. Beta-carotene is found naturally in mostly orange and dark green plant foods, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, mangos, and kale. We get vitamin A from a variety of sources. Two of the most common sources are retinol and beta-carotene. Retinol is sometimes called “true” vitamin A because it is nearly ready for the body to use. Retinol is found in such animal foods as liver, eggs, and fatty fish.
Vitamin A is necessary for eye health and vision. Vitamin A, a fat-soluble vitamin found as either preformed vitamin A or provitamin A carotenoids in the diet, plays an important role in the growth and development of several systems in the body. According to the Office of Dietary Supplements, preformed vitamin A commonly comes from animal sources, especially liver. Beta-carotene is the most common form of provitamin A carotenoid and is present in many dark orange fruits and vegetables. But unlike some water-soluble vitamins, such as vitamin C and the B vitamins, too much vitamin A can have an adverse effect on the body. Although vitamin A's chief function involves the eyes and vision, it also plays important roles in the development of bones, including the teeth. In addition, vitamin A aids immune function and helps provide a barrier against infections of the skin, lungs and mouth.
Vitamin D isn’t like most other vitamins. Your body can make its own vitamin D when you expose your skin to sunlight. But your body can’t make other vitamins. You need to get other vitamins from the foods you eat. For example, you need to get vitamin C from fruits and vegetables. Also what makes vitamin D unique compared to other vitamins, is that when your body gets its vitamin D, it turns vitamin D into a hormone. This hormone is sometimes called “activated vitamin D” or “calcitriol.”. Getting the right amount of vitamin D doesn’t depend on the foods you eat. If you take supplements or eat foods that contain vitamin D, your gut also sends the vitamin D to your liver. From here, your liver changes it to a substance called 25(OH)D. When your doctor talks about your vitamin D levels, he means the amount of 25(OH)D you have in your blood.
Your body must have vitamin D to absorb calcium and promote bone growth. Too little vitamin D results in soft bones in children (rickets) and fragile, misshapen bones in adults (osteomalacia). You also need vitamin D for other important body functions. 
Overview. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes
There are two different types of vitamin A. The first type, preformed vitamin A, is found in meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. The second type, provitamin A, is found in fruits, vegetables, and other plant-based products. The most common type of provitamin A in foods and dietary supplements is beta-carotene. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin A by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat). 2  Some types of fish, such as salmon.