3. One important feature of plasma membranes is that they are selectively permeable. Selectively permeable means that substances can pass through the cell membrane but other substances can’t. Sometimes this selectivity is passive. It does not require the cell to do any work. 
All cells are enclosed with a cell membrane. A selectively permeable cell membrane is one that allows certain molecules or ions to pass through it by means of active or passive transport. Active transport processes require the cell to expend energy to move the materials, while passive transport can be done without using cellular energy. Selectively permeable membranes can be found around a variety of cells and places. The most common example is the phospholipid bilayer cell membrane that surrounds every cell in our bodies. Another example of a selectively permeable membrane is the inner membranes of an egg.
Summary. The cell membrane is semi permeable-meaning some particles can cross the membrane while others may not. It is made up of layers that are both attracted to water-the phosphate bilayers and layers that are hydrophobic (fatty acid layers). Outside of the cell water makes the phosphate layers line up. Osmosis is the movement of water across the semi permeable cell membrane. The cell membrane has phospholipid bilayers. These layers are made up of glycerol, two fatty acids, and a phosphate. The phosphate part of the cell membrane is attracted to water but the fatty acid part of the membrane is not.
However, only the Selectively cells can enter and go out of the cell! Th … is is why the selectively permeable membrane is permeable! A cell membrane (the outer casing or inner casing in a plant cell) is selectively permeable because some materials can pass freely through the cell membrane while others cannot. The property of phospholipids that makes them ideal for making up  the selectively permeable cell membrane is their ability to form a  lipid bilayer. A hydrophilic head and … a hydrophobic tail play an  important role in the cell membrane.
Each cell is surrounded by a. selectively permeable. cell membrane. which regulates what gets into and out of the cell. A selectively permeable membrane allows some types of molecules and ions to diffuse across the membrane and prevents other types of molecules and ions from crossing the membrane. 
A selectively permeable membrane is a membrane that allows some substances to pass through easily, while other substances pass through very slowly or not at all. All cell membranes, including the plasma membrane, are selectively permeable. 
Report Abuse. The cell membrane is NOT freely permeable to water, there are special pores called aquaporins that allow water to move across a cell membrane. The cell membrane does allow the passage of small hydrophobic molecules across the membrane. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The cell membrane functions as a barrier that makes it possible for the cytoplasm to maintain a different composition from the material surrounding the cell. The unit membrane is freely permeable to water molecules but very impermeable to ions and charged molecules.
Selective permeability refers to the ability of a membrane to only  allow certain objects or items in or out of the cell. Cells must be  selectively permeable so that the co … ntents of the cell don't leak  out. The property of phospholipids that makes them ideal for making up  the selectively permeable cell membrane is their ability to form a  lipid bilayer. A hydrophilic head and … a hydrophobic tail play an  important role in the cell membrane.
The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. 