Step 4. Boil the beets until they are tender if you are storing them cooked. Peel the beets and remove any remaining stems after cooking. Keep cooked beets in the refrigerator in a sealed container or sealed plastic bag for up to one week. You can also freeze cooked beets in a freezer-safe bag or container. However, they can also be grown in the home garden. After harvesting beets---when the they reach a diameter of about 1 1/2 to 3 inches---you can store them several different ways. Beets are extremely versatile vegetables that can be stored fresh, cooked, dried or pickled.
These beets will last a long time in the refrigerator, probably 2 to 3 months. Contact Linda Stradley-By Google. What's Cooking America copyright 2004-2014 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. Place beets in large heavy pan and cover with water over medium-high heat. Bring just to a boil; reduce heat to medium, cover and cook until fork tender, approximately 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from heat and drain. Let beets cool until you can safely handle them.
Report Abuse. It will keep a few days in the fridge or you can slice it into jars and pour over malt vinegar, add a teaspoon of sugar to each screw top jar and this will last for 3 - 4 months unopened. AA15 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. As the man said 3 days in the fridge but you can pickle it in vinegar. Slice them put them in a kilner jar or similar and fill with the vinegar until the beetroot is covered. store in a dark place. they should keep for 3 months.
Cut off the greens and stems from freshly harvested beets if you are storing them in the refrigerator. By cutting them off, the beets can be stored longer since they will be absorbing all the moisture. Leave about 2-inch stems on the beets, and store them in the crisper in your refrigerator for up to four weeks. However, they can also be grown in the home garden. After harvesting beets---when the they reach a diameter of about 1 1/2 to 3 inches---you can store them several different ways. Beets are extremely versatile vegetables that can be stored fresh, cooked, dried or pickled.
The correct place to store beets is in the fruit and vegetable drawer of your refrigerator. I’ve stored raw unpeeled beets in the refrigerator for as long as two weeks, and they were perfectly fresh. I prefer to store beets in the plastic bag that they came in from the store. I like to puncture a few holes in the bag to let the air in. 
1 Store in plastic bag in the refrigerator; do not wash before refrigerating. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags. 1 To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags.
If you want to cook any attached leaves, make sure they are bright green. How to store: Before refrigerating, separate the beets from the leaves. To keep the beets dry, store them and the leaves, unwashed, in separate plastic bags in the vegetable drawer. Shelf life: The leaves will last for only two to three days, but the beets can stay fresh for two to three weeks. 
Tips. 1  Store in plastic bag in the refrigerator; do not wash before refrigerating. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags. 1 To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags.