Anzac Day is a national pubic holiday in Australia and New Zealand, and is commemorated by both countries on 25 April every year to honour members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who fought at Gallipoli in Turkey during World War 1. Anzac stands for Australian and New Zealand army corps. 25th April 1915 was the landing at Gallipoli and the first time these two young nations had the opportunity to prove themselves in battle. It is a national day of remembrance in Australia and New Zealand commemorating the Anzac attack on Gallipoli, Turkey in 1915
ANZAC Day is named after the Australian and New  Zealand Army Corps, who landed at Gallipoli on … 25 April 1915, in  World War I.    Marked with a public holiday in Australia and New Zealand, ANZAC  Day commemorates the landing of the troops at Gallipoli on the  Turkish Aegean coast, on 25 April 1915. Anzac stands for Australian and New Zealand army corps. 25th April 1915 was the landing at Gallipoli and the first time these two young nations had the opportunity to prove themselves in battle. It is a national day of remembrance in Australia and New Zealand commemorating the Anzac attack on Gallipoli, Turkey in
Anzac Day /ˈaenzaek/ ˈænzæk is a national day of remembrance In australia And New zealand that broadly commemorates All australians And New zealanders who served and died in all, wars, conflicts and peacekeeping operations and the contribution and suffering of all those who have.. served In addition, several Canadian military field hospitals supported the campaign. Anzac Day is also observed in the Cook Islands, Niue, Pitcairn Islands, and Tonga, and previously also as a national holiday in Papua New Guinea and Samoa.
ANZAC Day is named after the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps, who landed at Gallipoli on 25 April 1915, in World War I. Marked with a public holiday in Australia and N … ew Zealand, ANZAC Day commemorates the landing of the troops at Gallipoli on the Turkish Aegean coast, on 25 April 1915. Anzac stands for Australian and New Zealand army corps. 25th April 1915 was the landing at Gallipoli and the first time these two young nations had the opportunity to prove t … hemselves in battle.
ANZAC Day is named after the Australian and New  Zealand Army Corps, who landed at Gallipoli on … 25 April 1915, in  World War I.    Marked with a public holiday in Australia and New Zealand, ANZAC  Day commemorates the landing of the troops at Gallipoli on the  Turkish Aegean coast, on 25 April 1915. Anzac stands for Australian and New Zealand army corps. 25th April 1915 was the landing at Gallipoli and the first time these two young nations had the opportunity to prove t … hemselves in battle.
1 April 25, ANZAC Day, was the day the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps landed on the Gallipoli Peninsula in 1915. 2  The ANZACs were on the Gallipoli Peninsula for only 8 months, around 8,000 of them died there. 3  The ANZACs were all volunteers. 4  The Gallipoli Peninsula is very near the famous ancient city of Troy. Wreaths of red Flanders poppies are traditionally placed at memorials on ANZAC Day. On 25 April every year, Australians commemorate ANZAC Day. It commemorates the landing of Australian and New Zealand troops at Gallipoli on 25 April 1915. The date, 25 April, was officially named ANZAC Day in 1916. ANZAC stands for Australian and New Zealand Army Corps
Observed on 25 April each year, Anzac Day was originally to honour the members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who fought at Gallipoli against the Ottoman Empire during World War I. In addition, several Canadian military field hospitals supported the campaign. Anzac Day is also observed in the Cook Islands, Niue, Pitcairn Islands, and Tonga, and previously also as a national holiday in Papua New Guinea and Samoa.
ANZAC (Australian and New Zealand Army Corps) Day is the anniversary of the landing of troops from Australia and New Zealand on the Gallipoli Peninsula, Turkey, in World War I on April 25, 1915. ANZAC Day is the anniversary of the landing of troops from Australia and New Zealand on the Gallipoli Peninsula in Turkey during in World War I. Saturday, April 25, 2015 (All except Australian Capital Territory, Western Australia).