Home » Uncategorized » How much does Tiling cost per Square Metre. Tiling is just part of building, just like in any other renovation job. There is the element of professionalism whenever a tiling company comes to do the work for you. The cost of tiling varies depending on a number of different factors. Type of Tiles or Stone you are planning to use – Price differs if you are using Ceramic, Porcelain, Terracotta, Blue-Stone, Marble or Granite.
The costs for tiling although generally priced per square metre do vary not only by region and location but also depending on experience and size of firm. A solo tiler may have a relatively small turn over and not need to charge you VAT for example. Summary: How much do floor tiles cost, average floor tiling installation costs and average cost of floor tiles. Having decided that tiles are the right material for your floor, thoughts turn to costs and there is no hard and fast rule on pricing.
1 The per metre rate for laying ceramic tiles can vary between $90 and $150 or even more. 2  Quarry tiles also start at around $90 per square metre, but top out at about $125. 3  Vinyl tiles are the easiest and quickest to lay. 4  Expect quotes between $40 and $100 per square metre. 1 This is why a bathroom can cost twice as much per square metre as a living room. 2  Smaller areas require more tile cutting in relation to the entire job than larger areas, so may cost more per square metre because of the extra labour.
The cost of tiling varies depending on a number of factors. However, the average cost of tiling per square metre is $40. This is just an average figure that may vary depending on other factors. While this remains to be the average figure, there are people paying $100+ per square metre. The cost of tiling varies depending on a number of different factors. Type of Tiles or Stone you are planning to use – Price differs if you are using Ceramic, Porcelain, Terracotta, Blue-Stone, Marble or Granite.
If you want contrasting tiles or feature tiles, this will cost more as well. Another reason why one tiler might quote $90 per square metre while another asks for $150 is because the more expensive tiler is in higher demand because of their reputation for quality work. ©Belmondo Tiles. Tilers do charge hourly rates of around $45 to $60 an hour on average, but that's not the best way to find out how much your bathroom tiling job is going to cost. A better way is to first find the tiles you want and then get quotes from tilers.
Each price is for his labour, adhesive and grout. No tiles are included. Lets assume a 8’ x 6’ bathroom, with one window reveal, walls ready for tiling, with the bath etc in situ, to be tiled in 8” (200mm) square tiling. Job 1. Tile the bathroom, floor to ceiling, apply grout, then silicone around the bath. Same area of kitchen but with 1’ (25mm) mosaic tiles that come on a 12” (300mm) backing mesh which are a nightmare to put on. This is fiddly work, he will charge you for 1.5 days plus his materials……£275.00. The previous jobs were quite small and reasonably fiddly.
1 Quarry tiles also start at around $90 per square metre, but top out at about $125. 2  Vinyl tiles are the easiest and quickest to lay. 3  Expect quotes between $40 and $100 per square metre. 1 This is why a bathroom can cost twice as much per square metre as a living room. 2  Smaller areas require more tile cutting in relation to the entire job than larger areas, so may cost more per square metre because of the extra labour.
Quote 1 – This figure includes the cost of the floor tiles, grout, self leveling compound if needed and also the labour, we assume that tiles are mid-range and alone cost £25 per square metre: 
Average Labour Cost/Price to Tile a Floor. To clarify the following prices it is recommended that you read the article in the INFORMATION box below the PRICES…. (These prices are based on a tradesman’s rate of £150.00 per day and a labourer if required at £100.00 per day. This includes the cost of buying and collecting any materials, dumping any waste if necessary and any incidental materials they will need. The minimum price will usually be for a half day). Laying 8”x 8” (200 x 200mm) ceramic glazed floor tiles in your 10’ (3 metre) square kitchen. This has a flat, smooth solid floor, with lino on it which will come up easily