Thus, pathophysiology basically refers to the study of biological function during states of disease or dysfunction. For example, pathophysiology would explain kidney function when a person has diabetes. Most people study Human Physiology, and this is what it usually refers to in a college catalog. 
0 I am a new nursing student. Our teacher is vague to put it lightly. We are doing a plan of care on nausea and vomiting and it asks for the Definition, which I got out of Mosby's, but it also wants the pathophysiology. I am not sure what to write there. I know the definition of pathophysiology, I just don't know how to write what she wants...
Pathophysiology. Pathophysiology is a convergence of pathology with physiology. Pathology is the medical discipline that describes conditions typically observed during a disease state, whereas physiology is the biological discipline that describes processes or mechanisms operating within an organism. 
Medical Definition of PATHOPHYSIOLOGY. : the physiology of abnormal states; specifically: the functional changes that accompany a particular syndrome or disease. — patho·phys·i·o·log·i·cal \-ē-ə-ˈlaej-ˈläj-i\ kəl or·patho·phys·i·o·log \-ic\ ik. — adjective·patho·phys·i·ol·o \-gist-ē-ˈael-ˈäl\ ə. jəst noun 
Thus, pathophysiology basically refers to the study of biological function during states of disease or dysfunction. For example, pathophysiology would explain kidney function when a person has diabetes. Most people study Human Physiology, and this is what it usually refers to in a college catalog. 
Nursing students will take a nursing class in college called Pathophysiology to help them understand how to restore the body after it suffers from a number of possible abnormalities that lead to diseases. Nursing students take a pathophysiology course in college to prepare them to identify these abnormalities. Courses are available from accredited colleges or universities, and students can take this course completely online or on campus.
Pathophysiology can also mean the functional changes associated with or resulting from disease or injury. Another definition is the functional changes that accompany a particular disease. Pathology is the medical discipline that describes conditions typically observed during a disease state, whereas physiology is the biological discipline that describes processes or mechanisms operating within an organism.
the study of the biologic and physical manifestations of disease as they correlate with the underlying abnormalities and physiologic disturbances. Pathophysiology does not deal directly with the treatment of disease. Rather, it explains the processes within the body that result in the signs and symptoms of a disease. Patient discussion about pathophysiology. Q. What is the best pathophysiology of colorectal cancer. The pathophysiology just has to be brief and concise. It also has to include nursing considerations for the patient.
CSF/S glu = 0.4. Pathophysiology or physiopathology is a convergence of pathology with physiology. Pathology is the medical discipline that describes conditions typically observed during a disease state, whereas physiology is the biological discipline that describes processes or mechanisms operating within an organism.
Pathophysiology is the study of functional changes in the body that occur in response to disease or injury. For example, if someone ingests a toxin, that toxin might be associated with a variety of physical changes, such as inflammation in the stomach lining or necrosis of the extremities. 