There are many different sects of Sufism that emphasize different paths toward knowing Allah. Many religions have a mystical branch and Islam is no different – in Islam, the Sufis are the mystics. Named after the course wool garment worn by the first Sufis, these mystics attempt to discipline both the mind and body in order to directly experience God. Although, unlike mystics of other religions, Sufis do not think they must withdraw from the world in order to find God.
One of the important rituals in Sufism is the zikr. During a zikr, one remembers God through meditation, chant, and movement -- certain attributes of God are repeated until the seekers become saturated with God. This ritual supposedly, shatters and transforms them. Sufism (Sufism) may be best described as a mystical practice that emphasizes certain unique rituals for guiding spiritual seekers into a direct encounter with God.
This is not to say there is any one way to be a Sufi – there are many different sects who emphasize a different path toward knowing Allah. Some sects have even sprung up in the West…outside of what is traditionally considered the Muslim world. Named after the course wool garment worn by the first Sufis, these mystics attempt to discipline both the mind and body in order to directly experience God. Although, unlike mystics of other religions, Sufis do not think they must withdraw from the world in order to find God.
The substance of Sufism is the Truth and the meaning of Sufism is the selfless experiencing and actualization of the Truth. The practice of Sufism is the intention to go towards the Truth, by means of love and devotion. This is called the tarigat, the spiritual path or way towards God. The sufi is one who is a lover of Truth, who by means of love and devotion moves towards the Truth, towards the perfection which all are truly seeking. As necessitated by love's jealousy, the sufi is taken away from all except the Truth. 
1 Sufis believe that they are in a prominent position in relation to God. 2  The term suffab -- meaning, People of the Bench -- and the word suf which refers to the Sufis habit of wearing wool are two more popular supposed derivations of the word sufi. Sufism (Sufism) may be best described as a mystical practice that emphasizes certain unique rituals for guiding spiritual seekers into a direct encounter with God.
Neo-Sufism, pseudo-Sufism, and universal Sufism are terms used to denote forms of Sufism that do not require adherence to Shariah, or a Muslim faith. The terms are not always accepted by those it is applied to. Practitioners of Sufism hold that in its early stages of development Sufism effectively referred to nothing more than the internalization of Islam. According to one perspective, it is directly from the Qur'an, constantly recited, meditated, and experienced, that Sufism proceeded, in its origin and its development.
Practitioners of Sufism (Tasawwuf), referred to as Sufis (ṣūfī) (/ˈsuːfi/ ; صُوفِيّ), often belong to different ṭuruq or orders—congregations formed around a grand master referred to as a Mawla who maintains a direct chain of teachers back to the Prophet Muhammad. Practitioners of Sufism hold that in its early stages of development Sufism effectively referred to nothing more than the internalization of Islam. According to one perspective, it is directly from the Qur'an, constantly recited, meditated, and experienced, that Sufism proceeded, in its origin and its development.
Sufism or tasawwuf, as it is called in Arabic, is generally understood by scholars and Sufis to be the inner, mystical, or psycho-spiritual dimension of Islam. Today, however, many Muslims and non-Muslims believe that Sufism is outside the sphere of Islam. Nevertheless, Seyyed Hossein Nasr, one of the foremost scholars of Islam, in his article The Interior Life in Islam contends that Sufism is simply the name for the inner or esoteric dimension of Islam. After nearly 30 years of the study of Sufism, I would say that in spite of its many variations and voluminous expressions, the essence of Sufi practice is quite simple.
It is noteworthy that in the ethical writings of the Sufis Al-Kusajri and Al-Harawi there are sections which treat of the same subjects as those treated in the Ḥovot ha-Lebabot and which bear the same titles: e.g., Bab al-Tawakkul; Bab al-Taubah; Bab al-Muḥasabah; Bab al-Tawaḍu'; Bab al-Zuhd. Practitioners of Sufism hold that in its early stages of development Sufism effectively referred to nothing more than the internalization of Islam. According to one perspective, it is directly from the Qur'an, constantly recited, meditated, and experienced, that Sufism proceeded, in its origin and its development.
Classical Sufis were characterised by their attachment to dhikr, (a practice of repeating the names of God, often performed after prayers) and asceticism. Sufism gained adherents among a number of Muslims as a reaction against the worldliness of the early Umayyad Caliphate (661–750 CE). Practitioners of Sufism hold that in its early stages of development Sufism effectively referred to nothing more than the internalization of Islam. According to one perspective, it is directly from the Qur'an, constantly recited, meditated, and experienced, that Sufism proceeded, in its origin and its development.