MiraLAX is the brand name for the generic drug polyethylene glycol 3350,a laxative used to treat occasional constipation. The drug works by bringing water into the bowels, which helps keep the digestive system regular. Stool becomes softer when the bowels retain water. A: Miralax (Polyethylene Glycol 3350) is a laxative that increases the amount of water in the intestines. Miralax is used to treat occasional constipation and irregular bowel movements. Measure the dose of Miralax with the medicine cap on the bottle
A: Miralax (polyethylene glycol) is an osmotic laxative used to treat constipation. Miralax works by bringing water into the stool which softens the stool and helps it to be passed. Miralax is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for occasional constipation. A: Miralax (Polyethylene Glycol 3350) is a laxative that increases the amount of water in the intestines. Miralax is used to treat occasional constipation and irregular bowel movements. Measure the dose of Miralax with the medicine cap on the bottle
The cutout from the MiraLAX-related posting on the FDA's website [1]. Polyethylene glycol is made by stringing together molecules of ethylene glycol into a large polymer chain, hence the prefix poly- , Greek for many. On its own, ethylene glycol is used in automotive antifreeze and brake fluid. Incidentally, the “Merck” in the Merck Manual is the same “Merck” as in MiraLAX story. Go figure... On or about May 7, 2014, Merck & Co., Inc. entered into a “definitive agreement” with Bayer AG of Germany to sell their consumer care division — the one behind MiraLAX — for $14.2 billion [ link ].
How to use Miralax. Take by mouth usually once daily, or as directed by your doctor or the directions on the product package. If you are prescribed the individual packets, mix the powder as directed by your doctor or pharmacist. If you are using the bulk bottle, use the provided cap to measure the prescribed dose. Mix the powder with a glass (4-8 ounces/120-240 milliliters) of liquid such as water, juice, soda, coffee, or tea. Also, do not use this medication for more than 2 weeks unless directed by your doctor. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Extended use or overuse may result in dependence on laxatives and chronic constipation.
This medication is used to treat occasional constipation. It works by holding water in the stool to soften the stool and increases the number of bowel movements. It is known as an osmotic-type laxative. Also, do not use this medication for more than 2 weeks unless directed by your doctor. Tell your doctor if your condition persists or worsens. Extended use or overuse may result in dependence on laxatives and chronic
Since it was first introduced 13 years ago, a drug called Miralax — an odorless, tasteless laxative that can be easily diluted in orange juice or water — has become a staple in many American households. But the way many families use Miralax and its many generic equivalents has strayed far from its original intent. 
Miralax is a polyethylene glycol powder which dissolves in water. This material is not absorbed from the intestinal tract. It stays within the gut and acts to pull water into the intestine thereby increasing the volume and frequency of bowel movements. 
MiraLAX (polyethylene glycol 3350) is used as a laxative to treat occasional constipation or irregular bowel movements. MiraLAX is available over-the-counter and in generic form. Common side effects of MiraLAX include nausea, abdominal cramping, bloating, upset stomach, gas, dizziness, or sweating. The usual dose of MiraLAX is 17 grams (about 1 heaping tablespoon) of powder per day (or as directed by physician) in 4 to 8 ounces of water. Stop taking polyethylene glycol 3350 and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  severe or bloody diarrhea; 2  bleeding from your rectum; 3  blood in your stools; or. 4  severe and worsening stomach pain, cramping, or bloating.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. A white powder for reconstitution. MiraLax (polyethylene glycol 3350, NF) is a synthetic polyglycol having an average molecular weight of 3350. The actual molecular weight is not less than 90.0 percent and not greater than 110.0 percent of the nominal value. Stop taking polyethylene glycol 3350 and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  severe or bloody diarrhea; 2  bleeding from your rectum; 3  blood in your stools; or.