2. Kefir. Similar to yogurt, this fermented dairy product is a unique combination of goat’s milk and fermented kefir grains. High in lactobacilli and bifidus bacteria, kefir is also rich in antioxidants. Look for a good, organic version at your local health food shop.
Probiotics are beneficial forms of gut bacteria that help stimulate the natural digestive juices and enzymes that keep our digestive organs functioning properly. In addition to taking a probiotic supplement, you can also eat probiotic foods that are a host to these live bacterium. We all know of the great health benefits of probiotics, however, not all of us know how to take advantage of these health benefits.
Fermented dairy products, such as yogurt and kefir, are considered synbiotic because they contain live bacteria and the fuel they need to thrive. Probiotics are found in foods such as yogurt, while prebiotics are found in whole grains, bananas, onions, garlic, honey and artichokes. In addition, probiotics and prebiotics are added to some foods and available as dietary supplements.
Yogurt is one of the most familiar sources of probiotics -- good bacteria that keep a healthy balance in your gut. Studies suggest that probiotics can help ease lactose intolerance. They also may help tame gas, diarrhea, and other digestive problems.
Prebiotics vs. Probiotics. While probiotic-foods have live bacteria, prebiotic foods feed the good bacteria already living in your gut. You can find prebiotics in items such as asparagus, Jerusalem artichokes, bananas, oatmeal, red wine, honey, maple syrup, and legumes.
1 (Outside of the body, Lactobacillus acidophilus is the probiotic that is found in some yogurts.). 2  Foods that contain probiotics include: some juices and soy drinks, fermented and unfermented milk, buttermilk, some soft cheeses, miso, tempeh, kefir, kim chi, sauerkraut, and many pickles.
Yogurt is a rich source of probiotics, but be careful: Not all yogurt contains probiotics. Most brands that do will advertise this fact on the label. Powerful strains of probiotics found in yogurt include lactobacillus and bifidobacteria.