Incubation Period. When a person becomes infected with the mumps virus, it begins to multiply within the nose, throat, and lymph glands in the neck. The virus can also enter the blood and spread to other parts of the body. After 16 to 18 days, on average, symptoms can appear. This period between transmission and the start of symptoms is the  incubation period for mumps .. In some cases, the incubation period can be as early as 12 days or as late as 25 days. Mumps Information. 
After 16 to 18 days, on average, symptoms can appear. This period between mumps transmission and the start of mumps symptoms is called the incubation period.. In some cases, the incubation period can be as short as 12 days or as long as 25 days. A person is not contagious during the early mumps incubation period. A person is most contagious about three days prior to the onset of the swelling of the salivary glands (called parotitis) to nine days after the onset of symptoms. 
The incubation period ranges from 14 to 25 days. It is commonly 15–18 days. Occurrence is worldwide. There is generalised spread of the infection in communities with low immunisation rates; serologic studies show 85% or more of individuals in these communities have evidence of previous mumps infection by adult life. 
Symptoms of mumps. The symptoms of mumps usually develop 14 to 25 days after becoming infected with the mumps virus (this delay is known as the incubation period). The average incubation period is around 17 days. Swelling of the parotid glands is the most common symptom of mumps. The parotid glands are a pair of glands responsible for producing saliva. They're located in either side of your face, just below your ears
Ebola Virus: Per CDC, incubation period is 2 to 21 days w average of 8 to 10 days. A person will not transmit disease if they are asymptomatic and don't have a fever. If a person were on a lengthy flight or multiple flights-theoretically the person could evolve from incubation to active disease. 
Mumps symptoms. Mumps is most contagious usually before symptoms are noticed. Mumps has an incubation period of 7-18 days, but on average is around 10 days after exposure. As well as the tell-tale neck swelling, symptoms may include pain and discomfort from the swelling, fever, headache, feeling sick, dry mouth, joint aches and a general malaise. 
This is called the incubation period. Some people who are infected with the mumps virus don't have any symptoms. If you have more serious symptoms, such as a stiff neck or a severe headache, painful testicles, or severe belly pain, call your doctor right away. Mumps is a contagious viral infection that can cause painful swelling of the salivary glands, especially the parotid glands (between the ear and the jaw). Some people with mumps won't have gland swelling. They may feel like they have a bad cold or the flu instead. Mumps usually goes away on its own in about 10 days.
Mumps has an incubation period of 16-18 days; however, cases can arise 12-25 days after exposure. After this period, prodromal symptoms (such as low-grade fever, malaise, myalgias, headache, and anorexia) occur; these symptoms can last 3-5 days. 
How long does it take to show signs of mumps after being exposed? The incubation period of mumps is usually 16–18 days, but can range from 12–25 days. What are the symptoms of mumps? Individuals with mumps usually first feel sick with nonspecific symptoms like headache, loss of appe-tite, and low-grade fever. 