Meniere's disease. This is an inner ear disorder thought to be caused by a buildup of fluid and changing pressure in the ear. It can cause episodes of vertigo along with ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and hearing loss. Vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis. This is an inner ear problem usually related to infection (usually viral). Vertigo is often caused by an inner ear problem. Some of the most common causes include: BPPV. These initials stand for benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. BPPV occurs when tiny calcium particles (canaliths) clump up in canals of the inner ear.
Common causes of dizziness include inner-ear disorders, medications, and alcohol. Dizziness is often a result of vertigo. It can also be caused by a problem in the inner ear, where balance is regulated. The most common cause of vertigo and vertigo-related dizziness is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). Dizziness is not a disease but a symptom of other disorders. Vertigo and disequilibrium may cause a feeling of dizziness, but those two terms describe different symptoms. Vertigo is characterized by a feeling of spinning. Disequilibrium is a loss of balance or equilibrium. True dizziness is the feeling of lightheadedness or nearly fainting
Causes of Vertigo. Vertigo is often caused by an inner ear problem. Some of the most common causes include: BPPV. These initials stand for benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. BPPV occurs when tiny calcium particles (canaliths) clump up in canals of the inner ear.
Etiology. The most common causes of peripheral vertigo include BPPV, vestibular neuronitis, Meniere ménière, disease and-immune mediated-inner ear. Disease the most common cause of central dizziness is, migraine frequently referred to as vestibular migraine or-migraine associated. dizziness Benign causes of dizziness included peripheral vertigo (294 cases) and orthostatic hypotension (121 cases). Factors associated with serious diagnoses included abnormalities on focal examination, age greater than 60 years, and imbalance as the chief complaint.
Dizziness has many possible causes, including inner ear disturbance, motion sickness and medication effects. Sometimes it's caused by an underlying health condition, such as poor circulation, infection or injury. The way dizziness makes you feel and your triggers provide clues for possible causes. 1 Anxiety disorders. 2  Certain anxiety disorders may cause lightheadedness or a woozy feeling often referred to as dizziness. 3  These include panic attacks and a fear of leaving home or being in large, open spaces (agoraphobia).
Vertigo can be caused by problems in the brain or the inner ear. 1  Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common form of vertigo and is characterized by the brief sensation of motion lasting 15 seconds to a few minutes. 1 Acoustic neuroma is an uncommon cause of vertigo related to a type of tumor of the nerve tissue of the inner ear that can cause vertigo. 2  Symptoms may include vertigo with one-sided ringing in the ear and hearing loss. 3  Vertigo can be caused by decreased blood flow to the base of the brain.
Dizziness is generally not serious. However, it may be the result from problems associated with the inner ear, brain, or heart. It can also be the result of medications. One of the most common causes of dizziness is inner ear disorders. These disorders include: General location of inner ear disorders. Semicircular canals: Benign positional vertigo. Vestibular nerve: vestibular neuritis and acoustic neuroma. 
Some common causes of dizziness include hunger, fatigue, hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), or anxiety. Dizziness can also be caused by neurologic conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, and epilepsy. Labyrinthitis usually follows a cold or flu and is often caused by a viral infection of the inner ear. Serious causes of dizziness can include heart attack, stroke, or shock, all of which are severe, potentially life-threatening conditions that warrant immediate medical care.
1 Vertigo may also be caused by inflammation within the inner ear (labyrinthitis or vestibular neuritis), which is characterized by the sudden onset of vertigo and may be associated with hearing loss. 2  The most common cause of labyrinthitis is a viral or bacterial inner ear infection. 1 Acoustic neuroma is an uncommon cause of vertigo related to a type of tumor of the nerve tissue of the inner ear that can cause vertigo. 2  Symptoms may include vertigo with one-sided ringing in the ear and hearing loss. 3  Vertigo can be caused by decreased blood flow to the base of the brain.