The mantle of world’s biggest virus has passed from Mimivirus to Megavirus. But in this case, size doesn’t matter. It’s the genes that these viruses share and do not share that make this story important. The discovery of Mimivirus in a French cooling tower amazed virologists.
Specifically, the Mimivirus genome contains a number of ORFs showing strong homology to genes that encode aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, the enzymes that link amino acids to their appropriate tRNA molecules.
With the discovery of Mimivirus — the largest, most complex virus currently known — these assumptions may need to be reevaluated. This giant virus has a much larger size and bigger genome than any other known virus.
The discovery of the giant Mimivirus certainly forces us to rethink our assumption that viruses are small. Analysis of this virus also may cause us to rethink our assumptions about the tree of life. First observed in 1992, Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus (APMV) presents an interesting story of scientific inquiry.
Viruses are often filtered out before the genetic material of the remaining bacteria/archaea/eukarya is isolated. The structure of Mimivirus is so similar to that of parasitic bacterium that the particle was only identified as a virus in 2003, 11 years after its discovery in 1992 (Claverie et al, 2009).
However, the exact constellation of these genes in the Mimivirus genome does not match any of the known NCLDVs. This result led investigators to postulate that Mimivirus probably represents the first identified member of a new class of NCLDVs (Raoult et al. 2004).
As the authors of the study note, the Mimivirus genome includes many genes never before identified in a viral genome (Raoult et al. 2004). More specifically, the Mimivirus genome appears to contain many genes needed for processes thought to be hallmarks of life: protein translation and metabolism.
The Mimivirus, a virus infecting Acanthamoeba polyphaga, was the largest DNA virus yet isolated (Claverie et al, 2006).
The recent discovery of virophages associated with Mimivirus further stimulates the debate over its classification as a cellular microorganism or a virus. The fact that other smaller viruses can infect Mimivirus is a true testament to its size relative to other viruses. The dependency of the virophage lifecycle on a successful infection of an amoeboid host by Mimivirus strengthens the notion of a long-standing parasitic relationship between Mimivirus and its host.