1 Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 2  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 3  Examples of some alpha emitters: radium, radon, uranium, thorium. 4  Most alpha radiation is not able to penetrate human skin. 1 Alpha Radiation. 2  Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 3  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 4
Unlike all the other intermediate elements in the aforementioned decay chains, radon is gaseous and easily inhaled. Thus, even in this age of nuclear reactors, naturally-occurring radon is responsible for the majority of the public exposure to ionizing radiation. It is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, tasteless noble gas, occurring naturally as a decay product of radium. Its most stable isotope, 222Rn, has a half-life of 3.8 days. Radon is one of the densest substances that remains a gas under normal conditions.
Radiation. Radiation of certain wavelengths, called ionizing radiation, has enough energy to damage DNA and cause cancer. Ionizing radiation includes radon, x-rays, gamma rays, and other forms of high-energy radiation. Lower-energy, non-ionizing forms of radiation, such as visible light and the energy from cell phones and magnetic fields, do not damage DNA and have not been found to cause cancer. 
Radioactivity. Radioactivity is the spontaneous disintegration or decay of the nucleus of an atom by emission of particles, usually accompanied by electromagnetic radiation. Natural radioactivity is exhibited by several elements, including uranium, radium, radon gas, and radon's daughters
The radiation one typically encounters is one of four types: alpha radiation, beta radiation, gamma radiation, and x radiation. Neutron radiation is also encountered in nuclear power plants and high-altitude flight and emitted from some industrial radioactive sources. 1 Alpha Radiation. 2  Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 3  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 4  Examples of some alpha emitters: radium, radon, uranium, thorium.
Radon is a chemical element with symbol Rn and atomic number 86. It is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, tasteless noble gas, occurring naturally as a decay product of radium. Its most stable isotope, 222Rn, has a half-life of 3.8 days. Radon is one of the densest substances that remains a gas under normal conditions.
Radon is a colorless, odorless, radioactive gas. It forms naturally from the decay (breaking down) of radioactive elements, such as uranium, which are found in different amounts in soil and rock throughout the world. Radon gas in the air breaks down into tiny radioactive elements (radon progeny) that can lodge in the lining of the lungs, where they can give off radiation. This radiation can damage lung cells and eventually lead to lung cancer.
Index. HyperPhysics ***** Nuclear. Go Back. The decay of radon-222 with emission of an alpha particle is followed within about an hour by a series of four further decays, two of them accompanied by emission of alpha particles and the other two accompanied by other types of radiation. It is part of the natural radioactive decay series starting with uranium-238. It is radioactive with a half-life of 3.8 days, decaying by the emission of alpha particles to polonium, bismuth, and lead in successive steps. Radon is a colorless, odorless gas, a radioactive byproduct of radium.
1 Examples of some alpha emitters: radium, radon, uranium, thorium. 2  Most alpha radiation is not able to penetrate human skin. 3  Alpha-emitting materials can be harmful to humans if the materials are inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through open wounds. 4  A variety of instruments has been designed to measure alpha radiation. 1 Alpha Radiation. 2  Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 3  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 4 
Three other radon isotopes have a half-life of over an hour: 211 Rn, 210 Rn and 224 Rn. The 220 Rn isotope is a natural decay product of the most stable thorium isotope (232 Th), and is commonly referred to as thoron. It has a half-life of 55.6 seconds and also emits alpha radiation. It is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, tasteless noble gas, occurring naturally as a decay product of radium. Its most stable isotope, 222Rn, has a half-life of 3.8 days. Radon is one of the densest substances that remains a gas under normal conditions.