Last updated: Feb 21, 2001. This article was written to show beginners which muscle groups they should work to give their upper body the most increase in size. I have made up a list of the seven most important muscle groups. I have made up a list of the seven most important muscle groups, ranging from greatest importance to least importance, when it comes to adding size to your upper body. 
In this article, I put forth three candidates for the most important running muscle designation. Although other muscles are also important, these three muscles deserve special attention partly because runners and triathletes living a modern lifestyle often fail to adequately strengthen and use them. Although to single out any one muscle as the most important running muscle risks overlooking the intricate coordination involved in the activity, there are certainly some candidates that deserve special attention.
Different types of muscle. When most people think of muscles, they think about the muscles that we can see. For example, most of us know about the biceps muscles in our arms. But there are three unique kinds of muscle in any mammal's body: 1  Skeletal muscle is the type of muscle that we can see and feel. 2  When a body builder works out to increase muscle mass, skeletal muscle is what is being exercised. 
The most powerful muscle is the Quadricep located on the topside of the thigh, however pound for pound the tongue is the strongest muscle, and the most powerful reflexiv … e muscle is the jaws which is capable of exerting at most 4337 newton pounds of force. Well I really believe the most important muscle in your body is your heart since it is vital to your existence. It helps oxygenated blood pump out to all your muscle and other body organs and the brain to help with All your body's movement and activities of day to day living. 2 people found this useful. 4 Jays.
Your heart is the most important muscle in your body and like any muscle, it needs exercise to make it stronger. A strong heart can pump more efficiently. It is recommended that you exercise most days of the week for a minimum of 10 minutes at a time, but try to dedicate 25-30 minutes for yourself to exercise. It does not have to be a vigorous exercise; any slight to moderate movement will show results.
Muscles Promote Insulin Sensitivity. One of the most important functions of muscles in metabolic health is their ability to store glucose (carbohydrates) as glycogen. They then use this stored glycogen as fuel every time you need to move. Muscles Improve Disease Recovery. Another health benefit of muscles is their ability to create a “safety net” of protein that your body can draw on at times of increased need. Protein is one of the most important structural components in your entire body, and muscles play a key role in regulating protein availability.
The heart is the most important muscle of the body because it is the organ that pumps the blood throughout the body to carry out oxygen and nutrients, and helps collect and el … iminate carbon dioxide and other wastes from the body. 1 person found this useful. Well I really believe the most important muscle in your body is your heart since it is vital to your existence. It helps oxygenated blood pump out to all your muscle and other body organs and the brain to help with All your body's movement and activities of day to day living. 2 people found this useful. 4 Jays.
The gross anatomy of a muscle is the most important indicator of its role in the body. There is an important distinction seen between pennate muscles and other muscles. In most muscles, all the fibers are oriented in the same direction, running in a line from the origin to the insertion. Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell.