The Tewa (or Tano) are a linguistic group of Pueblo Native Americans who speak the Tewa language and share the Pueblo culture. Their homelands are on or near the Rio Grande in New Mexico north of Santa Fe. They comprise the following communities: 1  Nambe Nambé.  pueblo The Arizona Tewa, descendants of those who fled the Second Pueblo Revolt of 1680-1692, live on the Hopi Reservation in Arizona, mostly in Tewa Village and Polacca on the First Mesa. Tewa (also known as Tano) is one of five Tanoan languages spoken by the Pueblo people of New Mexico.
Today, the Tewa live primarily in the Namb, Pojoaque, San Ildefonso, Ohkay Owingeh (formerly known as San Juan Pueblo), Santa Clara and Tesuque Pueblos in northeastern New Mexico; with some descendents also residing on the First Mesa Hopi Reservation in Arizona. Tacatacuru-Living on Cumberland in what is part of the state of Georgia today in the n the 16th and 17th centuries, the meaning of their name is unknown but is thought to have something to do with fire.
The Pueblo are natives of the Southwest deserts, particularly New Mexico. (The Hopi live in Arizona, while the Ysleta del Sur Tigua live in Texas .) Unlike many Native American tribes, the Pueblo Indians were never forced to leave their homelands and are still living there today. Though the Pueblo Indians all have closely related cultures, they do not all speak the same language. The Hopi language is a Uto-Aztecan language, distantly related to the language of the Aztecs. The Zuni language is a language isolate, not related to any other living language.
|sources|. The Tigua are the only Puebloan tribe still in Texas. The Pueblos are a number of different Indian tribes who lived in the southwest. The southwest includes far west Texas, New Mexico, Arizona with bits of southern Colorado and Utah. 
Location. The Tewa-speaking Pueblo peoples live, as they have since aboriginal times, in the southwestern United States. Six Tewa pueblos are located adjacent to the Rio Grande in central/north-central New Mexico and one is located on a mesa in northeastern Arizona. The name Tewa refers to linguistically related American Indian peoples who live in seven distinct communities referred to as pueblos, the name applied to them by the Spanish colonists in the late 1500s. Location.
The Tiwa Tribe-Fighting the Spanish. The Tiwa Indians, also known as Tigua, are a group of Tanoan Pueblo tribes which live in three geographic regions, including Taos and Picuris in northeast New Mexico, Sandia and Isleta near Albuquerque, New Mexico, and at Isleta del Sur, near El Paso, Texas. 
Hopi-Tewa. ETHNONYM: Tano. The Hopi-Tewa are a Tewa-speaking American Indian group who live in the pueblo of Hano on First Mesa on the Hopi Indian Reservation in northeastern Arizona. The Hopi-Tewa maintained much of the Tano cultural pattern, but added herding to their economic activities and some Hopi elements to their own Religious beliefs and practices. In 1975 the Hopi-Tewa numbered about 625 and were located in several villages
Orientation. Identification. The name Tewa refers to linguistically related American Indian peoples who live in seven distinct communities referred to as pueblos, the name applied to them by the Spanish colonists in the late 1500s. Location.
Most Tewa live on or near their home pueblo, but others live in urban areas throughout the United States. In 1630, or about ninety years after Spanish contact, there were about 2,200 Tewa living in the six New Mexico pueblos. In 1900 an estimated 1,200 Tewa lived on these reservations. The name Tewa refers to linguistically related American Indian peoples who live in seven distinct communities referred to as pueblos, the name applied to them by the Spanish colonists in the late 1500s. Location.