A constitutional amendment refers to the modification of the Constitution of a nation or state. In many jurisdictions the text of the constitution itself is altered; in others the text is not changed, but the amendments change its effect. The method of modification is typically written into the Constitution itself. The only method for proposing an amendment to the Texas State Constitution is through the legislature, either in regular or special session. The governor may call a special session, and specify the agenda for the session.
This is the complete list of the thirty-three amendments to the United States Constitution which have been proposed by the United States Congress and sent to the states for ratification since the Constitution was put into operation on March 4, 1789. 
The means by which an alteration to the U.S. Constitution, whether a modification, deletion, or addition, is accomplished. Article V of the U.S. Constitution establishes the means for amending that document according to a two-step procedure: proposal of amendments, followed by ratification. The rest have been ratified by three-fourths of the state legislatures. The process for amending the Constitution is deliberately difficult. Even when an amendment is proposed by Congress, it has taken, on average, two-and-a-half years for it to be ratified.
No matter which method is used for the proposal of a constitutional amendment, Congress retains the power to decide what method will be used for ratification: approval of three-fourths (38) of the state legislatures, or approval of three-fourths (38) of special state conventions. The rest have been ratified by three-fourths of the state legislatures. The process for amending the Constitution is deliberately difficult. Even when an amendment is proposed by Congress, it has taken, on average, two-and-a-half years for it to be ratified.
An amendment to the Constitution is an improvement, a correction or a revision to the original content approved in 1788. To date, 27 Amendments have been approved, six have been disapproved and thousands have been discussed. The other method of passing an amendment requires a Constitutional Convention to be called by two-thirds of the legislatures of the States. That Convention can propose as many amendments as it deems necessary. Those amendments must be approved by three-fourths of the states.
The Amendment Process. There are essentially two ways spelled out in the Constitution for how to propose an amendment. One has never been used. The first method is for a bill to pass both houses of the legislature, by a two-thirds majority in each. Once the bill has passed both houses, it goes on to the states. 
The only method for proposing an amendment to the Washington State Constitution is through the legislature and can originate in either branch. The proposal must be approved by a two-thirds majority of the legislature. The only method for proposing an amendment to the Texas State Constitution is through the legislature, either in regular or special session. The governor may call a special session, and specify the agenda for the session.
An amendment is a change to the constitution of a nation or a state. In jurisdictions with rigid or entrenched constitutions, amendments require a special procedure … different from that used for enacting ordinary laws. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A constitutional amendment is any change in the US Constitution. Like the constitution, an amendment must be proposed and then adopted by Congress or by state conventions. It must then be ratified by 2/3 of the current states before it becomes part of the Constitution. Amendments can only be superceded by another later amendment, or repealed by one