The motor cortex can be divided into three areas: 1. the primary motor cortex is the main contributor to generating neural impulses that pass down to the spinal cord and control the execution of movement. However, some of the other motor areas in the brain also play a role in this function. It is located on the anterior paracentral lobule on the medial surface. 1 The primary somatosensory cortex, especially the part called area 3a, which lies directly against the motor cortex, is sometimes considered to be functionally part of the motor control circuitry.
The somatosensory cortex is an important part of the cerebral cortex in the brain that processes sensory information from the body. Neurons from different parts of the body that receive environmental stimuli all send their information to the somatosensory cortex. This is where the somatosensory cortex comes in. This part of the brain processes sensations, or external stimuli, from our environment. Before we learn more about the somatosensory cortex, we need to learn a little bit about brain anatomy and where the somatosensory cortex is located.
Just posterior to the primary somatosensory cortex lies the somatosensory association cortex, which integrates sensory information from the primary somatosensory cortex (temperature, pressure, etc.) to construct an understanding of the object being felt. 
Answer by Kelly Jameson. Confidence votes 4.3K. The primary sensory cortex (or primary somatosensory cortex) is part of the postcentral gyrus in the brain, which forms part of the parietal lobe. The main function of the primary sensory cortex is it is a receptor for the sense of touch. parietal lobe. The motor cortex is in the frontal lobe of the brain whilst the  sensory cortex is in the parietal lobe. Another main difference is  that the motor cortex controls movements … of fine and gross motor  skills whereas the sensory cortex controls feelings of touch and  sensation. 25 people found this useful.
The somatosensory cortex is a part of the cerebral cortex and is located in the middle of the brain as shown below. Below is the somatosensory cortex, highlighted in red in the brain. This is where the somatosensory cortex comes in. This part of the brain processes sensations, or external stimuli, from our environment. Before we learn more about the somatosensory cortex, we need to learn a little bit about brain anatomy and where the somatosensory cortex is located.
Brodmann Areas. Over a lifetime, the various parts of the brain that control the body's movements can suffer damage from various causes, such as head injuries, strokes, and degenerative brain diseases. One typical example is what happens when one side of the motor cortex is completely destroyed by a stroke
Thalamus. part of the limbic system located in the center of the brain, this structure relays sensory information from the lower part of the brain to the proper areas of the cortex and processes some sensory information before sending it to its proper area.
The somatosensory cortex is located within an area of the brain called the postcentral gyrus, a structure that forms a band around the middle of the cerebral cortex, encompassing both hemispheres. 