Report Abuse. Disasters which closed the Globe Theatre-the Puritans The Puritans had been the source of many problems within the early English theatre. The first Globe Theatre was built due to the refusal of a puritan called Giles Allen to renew the lease of the 'Theatre'. The Puritans gained additional power and support during the early 1600's. In 1613, during a performance of Henry VIII, the thatch of the Globe was accidentally set alight by a cannon, set off to mark the king's entrance onstage in a scene at Cardinal Wolsey's palace.
The original Globe theater was constructed by the Lord Chamberlain’s men, the acting group to. which Shakespeare belonged. Before the Globe was constructed, they performed at the Blackfriar. Theater in the heart of London. The Globe Theater was built around 1598 in London’s Bankside district. It was one of four major. theaters in the area-the others were the Swan, the Rose, and the Hope. It was an open air.
The Globe was built in 1599 using timber from an earlier theatre, The Theatre, which had been built by Richard Burbage's father, James Burbage, in Shoreditch in 1576. The Burbages originally had a 21-year lease of the site on which The Theatre was built but owned the building outright. A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named  Shakespeare's Globe , opened in 1997 approximately 750 feet (230 m) from the site of the original theatre.
It stood next to the Rose, on the south side of the Thames, and was the most elaborate and attractive theatre yet built. The Globe was designed and constructed for the Chamberlain's Men by Cuthbert Burbage, son of the Theatre's creator, James Burbage. The lease for the land on which the Globe stood was co-owned by Burbage and his brother Robert, and by a group of five actors -- Will Kempe, Augustine Phillips, John Heminge, Thomas Pope, and William Shakespeare. Much of Shakespeare's wealth came from his holdings in the Globe.
The original opening of the Globe Theater was in London on the Southbank of the river Thames in Southwark, London very close to the Bear Garden in late 1599. There is much history to be learned about this amazing theater, but to make it easier, let's condense it into it's main parts. The Globe Theater was a mass theater from the Elizabethan era that many people gathered to see plays and do other activities. Many people were interested in the Globe Theater, in fact, they all flocked into the glorious theater about 3000 people at a time.
The Globe Theatre was a theatre in London associated with William Shakespeare. It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son, Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613. A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed in 1642. A modern reconstruction of the Globe, named  Shakespeare's Globe , opened in 1997 approximately 750 feet (230 m) from the site of the original theatre.
In 1642 the parliament ordered the theaters to close. The cause of this was that the Puritans had been gaining power and at this point civil war broke out between the parliame … ntarians--who were Puritan--and the Royalists. What closed the theatres during Shakespeare's time, was The Bubonic Plague. But it is wrong to call it a disaster because that suggests that it was an event which happened o … nce.
It was rebuilt in 1614, the building still stands today. The theatre survives the plague. 20 years after the Globe theatre had closed down, there were challenges to keep the theatre open like the Bubonic Plague also known as the black death, and the great fire of london. The great fire of london distroyed many monuments but did not succeed in destroying The Globe Theatre. The Globe Theatre was first built In 1599 and was destroyed accidently by a lit cannonball that was a prop used in a play.William Shakespeare wrote that play but did not star in it and was absent that night.The Globe Theatre was destroyed on the 29th of June, 1613.
The Rose was home to the Admiral's Men for several years. When the Lord Chamberlain's Men built the Globe Theatre on the Bankside in 1599, however, the Rose was put into a difficult position. It was the fourth of the public theatres to be built, after The Theatre (1576), the Curtain (1577), and the theatre at Newington Butts (c. 1580?) – and the first of several playhouses to be situated in Bankside, Southwark, in a liberty outside the jurisdiction of the City of London 's civic authorities.