LED Driver ICs. Linear Technology has a very broad line of LED driver ICs for automotive, display backlighting, handheld and general lighting applications. They are configured as either Inductorless white LED drivers (for LEDs in parallel), or switching regulator based white LED drivers (for LEDs in series). 
A LED driver is an electrical device that regulates the power to an LED or string(s) of LEDs. The power level (or ‘Speed’) of the LED is maintained constant by the driver as the electrical properties change (amount of ‘gas’ or power needed) throughout the temperature increases and decreases (or ‘hills and valleys’) seen by the LED(s).
To get the best performance out of your LED light or array, you're going to want an LED driver. If you're not familiar with the term, an LED driver is a power supply that is self-contained and which has outputs that are matched to your LED or LED array's electrical characteristics. The Need for LED Drivers. Before designing or selecting a driver circuit, you should also know the two ways of controlling forward current. The first is using the LED VI curve in order to determine how much voltage should be applied to the LED to get the forward current that you want.
An LED driver performs a function similar to a ballast for discharge lamps. It controls the current flowing through the LED. Most LED drivers are designed to provide current to a specific device or array. 
What makes a driver different from conventional power supplies, is that an LED driver responds to the ever-changing needs of the LED, or circuit of LEDs, by supplying a constant amount of power to the LED, as its electrical properties change with temperature. The power level (or ‘Speed’) of the LED is maintained constant by the driver as the electrical properties change (amount of ‘gas’ or power needed) throughout the temperature increases and decreases (or ‘hills and valleys’) seen by the LED(s).
An LED driver is the power supply for an LED system, much like a ballast is to a fluorescent or HID lighting system, says Al Marble, manager-sales & market development for Philips-Advance Transformer. LED drivers may be constant voltage types (usually 10V, 12V and 24V) or constant current types (350mA, 700mA and 1A). Some drivers are manufactured to operate specific LED devices or arrays, while others can operate most commonly available LEDs. The driver converts 120V (or other voltage) 60Hz AC power to low-voltage DC power required by the LEDs, and protects the LEDs from line-voltage fluctuations. Sodhi also believes that one of the most important LED driver features to examine is the quality of the DC output voltage of the driver. To maximize the light output from the LEDs without overstressing them requires a constant DC current to be maintained through them, he say
In electronics, an LED circuit is an electrical circuit used to power a light-emitting diode (LED). The circuit must provide sufficient current to light the LED at the required brightness, but must limit the current to prevent damaging the LED. The voltage drop across an LED is approximately constant over a wide range of operating current; therefore, a small increase in applied voltage greatly increases the current.
An LED driver is a self-contained power supply that has outputs matched to the electrical characteristics of your LED or array of LEDs. There are currently no industry standards, so understanding the electrical characteristics of your LED or array is critical in selecting or designing a driver circuit. Drivers should be current-regulated (deliver a consistent current over a range of load voltages).