Acronym Attic: Searching over 3 million acronyms, abbreviations, and initialisms. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. Acronym Attic is ©2005-2008, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
Whether you are required to have a health and safety representative  depends on the laws of the state, province, or country where you  work, the procedures of your employer, … and the kind of work being  performed. You should seek additional health and safety assistance when you do not have the knowledge or training to deal with a condition or circumstance that could impact health and sa … fety, or if you have a question you are unable to answer.
No, having a .com domain name does not mean your web site is a licensed business. In fact, the Internet registration authorities have expanded their criteria to allow most anyone to have a .com address, whether you have a commercial intent or not. And no, it does not mean computer either. Interestingly enough, .com describes that a web site has some kind of commercial intent. This is what we call a  top level domain  address, and it used to be a way for a web site to convey its publishing intent.
DSE. Dermatan-sulfate epimerase is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DSE gene. The protein encoded by this gene is a tumor-rejection antigen. This antigen possesses tumor epitopes capable of inducing HLA-A24-restricted and tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in cancer patients and may be useful for specific immunotherapy. This gene product is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. 
An Advanced DSE assessment is a Level 3 assessment and is undertaken for workers with specific conditions or workplaces that pose specific problems. The Advanced DSE assessment is normally undertaken by a qualified specialist ergonomist with extensive experience. We are the number one DSE assessment and assessor training company and suggest that you ensure that the person providing the training has a qualification in ergonomics with emphasis on workplace design, physiology, and biomechanics.
[not an acronym] a common misconception is that SOS means Save Our Ship/Souls (a distress call) ; the letters don't actually stand for anything. SOS. [not an acronym] a common misconception is that SOS means Save Our Ship/Souls (a distress call) ; the letters don't actually stand for anything. SOS. Save Our Ship (distress call, common but incorrect).
United Arab Emirates: DSE awarded AED 82.5 million Healthcare ... by Mena Report. Under the terms of the agreement, will design and build a plant with five chillers of 2,500 TR (tons of refrigeration) capacity. Reflecting UAE s planned expansion of healthcare sector to offer improved medical facilities to its residents as well as position the country as a medical tourism hub, has honed and enhanced its core engineering (MEP) services offerings catering to the unique and sensitive demands of the MENA healthcare industry.
Display Screen Equipment (DSE) is a device or equipment that has an alphanumeric or graphic display screen, regardless of the display process involved; it includes both conventional display screens and those used in emerging technologies such as laptops, touch-screens and other similar devices. The Health and Safety (Display Screen Equipment) Regulations 1992 aim to protect the health of people who work with DSE. The Regulations were introduced because DSE has become one of the most common kinds of work equipment.