The Center for the Biology of Chronic Disease. Gene-Eden-VIR Decreased Physical and Mental Fatigue in a Post Marketing Clinical Study That Followed FDA Guidelines; Results Support Microcompetition Theory. The study was conducted by Hanan Polansky and Edan Itzkovitz from the Center for the Biology of Chronic Disease. The study was published in the reputable, peer reviewed, medical journal Pharmacology and Pharmacy. This is the second study in the series. The first study entitled: Gene-Eden-VIR is Antiviral; Results of a Post Marketing Clinical Study, was published in September 2013.
Specifically, it decreased the symptoms severity, frequency, and duration. Gene-Eden-VIR is unique since it helps the immune system target the latent herpes virus. See more information on the difference between the latent and active virus, on the web page Viral Infections: What is a Cure.. A recent clinical study tested the effect of the Gene-Eden-VIR on viral infections, including an infection with the herpes virus. The study showed that treatment with Gene-Eden-VIR decreased the symptoms in over 70% of the infected individuals.
Gene-Eden-VIR is a natural treatment designed to help the immune system target the herpes virus (HSV). A post marketing clinical study showed that Gene-Eden-VIR decreased symptoms of a herpes infection. A second post marketing clinical study showed that Gene-Eden-VIR decreased the feeling of physical and mental fatigue associated with such infection. Both studies followed the FDA guidelines for clinical studies. A recent clinical study tested the effect of the Gene-Eden-VIR on viral infections, including an infection with the herpes virus. The study showed that treatment with Gene-Eden-VIR decreased the symptoms in over 70% of the infected individuals.
Yes it does work. A clinical study, which followed FDA guidelines, showed that Gene-Eden-VIR safely and effectively decreased symptoms in infected individuals. You can find the list of symptoms in method section of the study attached below. As a result, many doctors prescribe Gene-Eden-VIR to their patients. Gene-Eden-VIR has been in the market for more than 5 years. Thousands of people around the world take Gene-Eden-VIR daily. These people are so happy with the effects of Gene-Eden-VIR on their health, that they take it on a regular basis for over three years now.
A post marketing clinical study showed that Gene-Eden-VIR decreased symptoms of a HPV infection. A second post marketing clinical study showed that Gene-Eden-VIR decreased the feeling of physical and mental fatigue associated with such infection. Both studies followed the FDA guidelines for clinical studies. Gene-Eden-VIR is not sold in stores, or on other websites. 1  Sometimes, low-risk types of HPV can cause visible changes that take the form of genital warts. 2  If a high-risk HPV infection is not cleared by the immune system, it can linger for many years and turn abnormal cells into cancer over time.
The Center for the Biology of Chronic Disease. Gene-Eden-VIR is Antiviral: Results of a post marketing clinical study. A website claims that a dietary supplement cures prevents, treats, or cures a disease. Please note that there are two products on the market, Novirin and Gene-Eden-VIR, that have the same five natural ingredients: 100 mg of quercetin, 150 mg of green tea extract, 50 mg of a cinnamon extract, 25 mg of a licorice extract, and 100 mcg of selenium.
Since Gene-Eden-VIR is antiviral, a second clinical study showed that Gene-Eden-VIR decreases the feeling of physical and mental fatigue. This study provides a second scientific proof that Gene-Eden-VIR actually works. Gene-Eden-VIR has been in the market for more than 5 years. Thousands of people around the world take Gene-Eden-VIR daily. These people are so happy with the effects of Gene-Eden-VIR on their health, that they take it on a regular basis for over three years now.
Take Gene-Eden-VIR. Gene-Eden-VIR has been in the market for more than 5 years. Thousands of people around the world take Gene-Eden-VIR daily. These people are so happy with the effects of Gene-Eden-VIR on their health, that they take it on a regular basis for over three years now.
According to the paper: Gene-Eden (by polyDNA) is a broad range, natural antiviral supplement that targets viruses during their latent or chronic phase.. In addition, the paper says: A week later, the patient began a treatment with Gene-Eden ... Gene-Eden-VIR has been in the market for more than 5 years. Thousands of people around the world take Gene-Eden-VIR daily. These people are so happy with the effects of Gene-Eden-VIR on their health, that they take it on a regular basis for over three years now.
Yes there is. Gene-Eden-VIR is a natural remedy that helps the immune system target the latent herpes virus. A recent clinical study tested the effect of the Gene-Eden-VIR on viral infections, including an infection with the herpes virus. The study showed that treatment with Gene-Eden-VIR decreased the symptoms in over 70% of the infected individuals.