Take a measurement in a few areas to see if the problem is localized, or if the house is humid throughout. A humidity level of 50% is normal for the summer. In the winter, the ideal indoor humidity depends on the outdoor air temperature and may be 30% or less on colder days. 
Every homeowner should own a hygrometer that measures temperature and relative humidity (RH). The ideal relative humidity for health and comfort is about 40-50%. In the winter months, it may have to be lower than 40% RH to avoid condensation on the windows. Relative Humidity & Your Home Walkthrough. Take an animated tour through a typical home and see how relative humidity affects various areas in the home. There are three key components to healthy air. It must be fresh, clean, and have the proper humidity (less than 50% relative humidity). Fresh outside air is rich in oxygen and flushes your home of stale air, which is full of harmful airborne pollutants.
If your home is 70 degrees inside and the temperature outside is under 20-40 degrees, you should keep the humidity under 40 percent. For each 10-degree reduction in the outside temperature below 20 degrees, the maximum humidity level inside should decrease by 5 percent. If not, now’s the time to learn what humidity is, what the ideal levels should be, and the effects of humidity levels that are too high or low. High indoor humidity can adversely affect your home, health and energy costs.
Ideal humidity level for comfort and health is between 40-50%. Lower levels especially in the winter can contribute to a sense of discomfort or chill even at warmer indoor temperatures. Higher levels may result in a clammy damp feeling and foster mold formation. The humidity level in colder climates can be much lower than 50% in the winter time. The mucous linings of the nose and the shape of your lips can give you an indication that it is too dry. Also, cuticles of your fingers will start to crack if you are in a dry home
Are you aware of what the humidity levels are in your home? If not, now’s the time to learn what humidity is, what the ideal levels should be, and the effects of humidity levels that are too high or low. High indoor humidity can adversely affect your home, health and energy costs.
It is important to maintain the proper humidity levels in your home and workplace. Indoor humidity levels should be between 30 to 50 percent with the ideal level being about 45 percent. Humidity levels can be easily checked with a hygrometer. If the humidity is too high in your home or basement, there are two ways you can decrease it. Installing exhaust fans in rooms where there are higher level of humidity, like your kitchen, laundry room and bathroom, is one method. However, this can be expensive. A less expensive method is to purchase a dehumidifier.
Keeping the correct humidity level in your home is important to your well-being, and while a little moisture can be beneficial, too much could be hazardous to your health. Recommended Relative Humidity Level: The recommended average relative humidity level is between 35% and 45%. If you need to add humidity to your home and you only have one portable humidifier, I would locate it in the bedroom to control the air where you spend the most time in a 24 hour period. However, I must stress that the humidifier should be sized right for the room.
Ideal summer and winter indoor humidity vary; in the winter, ideal humidity is in the 25 to 40 percent range; in the summer, less than 60 percent humidity is ideal. In the winter, air in the home may feel dry, especially if the humidity outdoors is low. If your skin feels itchy and you often are thirsty, the air may be too dry. A digital hygrometer measures indoor humidity. If the humidity is lower than 40 percent, a humidifier adds a bit of moisture to the room. 