Perfusion technologists operate the heart-lung machine during surgery. When you are connected to the heart-lung machine, it does the same job that your heart and lungs would do. The heart-lung machine carries blood from the upper-right chamber of the heart (the right atrium) to a special reservoir called an oxygenator. During bypass surgery, the breastbone (sternum) is divided, the heart is stopped, and blood is sent through a heart-lung machine. Unlike other kinds of heart surgery, the chambers of the heart are not opened during bypass surgery.
Studies: Heart-lung machines are safe. One of the scariest parts of bypass surgery — having your heart stopped and going on a heart-lung machine while doctors fix your clogged arteries — is safe even in the elderly, studies find. SAN FRANCISCO — One of the scariest parts of bypass surgery — having your heart stopped and going on a heart-lung machine while doctors fix your clogged arteries — is safe even in the elderly and doesn't cause mental decline as many people have feared, two landmark studies show.
387 Followers. A. A heart-lung (cardiopulmonary) bypass machine oxygenates the blood and circulates it throughout the body during heart bypass surgery. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. 
Another type of heart surgery is called off-pump, or beating heart, surgery. It's like traditional open-heart surgery because the chest bone is opened to access the heart. However, the heart isn't stopped, and a heart-lung bypass machine isn't used. Off-pump heart surgery is limited to CABG. Surgeons can now make small incisions (cuts) between the ribs to do some types of heart surgery.
Cardiopulmonary bypass is commonly used in heart surgery because of the difficulty of operating on the beating heart. Operations requiring the opening of the chambers of the heart require the use of CPB to support the circulation during that period. The first successful open heart procedure on a human utilizing the heart lung machine was performed by John Gibbon on May 6, 1953 at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. He repaired an atrial septal defect in an 18-year-old woman.
Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is a technique that temporarily takes over the function of the heart and lungs during surgery, maintaining the circulation of blood and the oxygen content of the body. The CPB pump itself is often referred to as a heart–lung machine or the pump. The first successful open heart procedure on a human utilizing the heart lung machine was performed by John Gibbon on May 6, 1953 at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. He repaired an atrial septal defect in an 18-year-old woman.
ECMO is performed using a heart-lung bypass machine similar to the one used during open heart surgery. The ECMO machine, often referred to as a “circuit,” is quite large and contains sterile plastic tubing that moves blood from your baby to the “ECMO lung” and then back to your child. 
The heart-lung machine is medical equipment that provides cardiopulmonary bypass, or mechanical circulatory support of the heart and lungs. The heart-lung machine is invaluable during this time since the patient is unable to maintain blood flow to the lungs or the body. In critical care units and cardiac catheterization laboratories, the heart-lung machine is used to support. and maintain blood flow and respiration. The diseased heart or lung(s) is replaced by this technology, providing time for the organ(s) to heal
You are connected to a heart-lung bypass machine (called on-pump surgery), which allows for circulation of blood throughout your body during surgery. The heart is stopped and the surgeon then performs the bypass procedure described above. The heart is generally stopped for about 30-90 minutes of the 4-5 hour surgery. 