Jobs. The highest average salaries go to Certified Pharmacy Technicians, who bring in close to $11.19 per hour, though Pharmacy Technicians are not far behind at $10.17 along with Produce Clerks (about $8.36) and Meat Clerks ($8.13). Earning only $7.46 on average, Courtesy Clerks make less than most people in the company. Excluding overtime pay (which bumps median pay up to $18.46), people who work for The Kroger Company earn a median wage of $9.74 per hour.
Kroger Salary. Kroger average salary is $85,911, median salary is $93,600 with a salary range from $21,965 to $882,000. Kroger salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Kroger salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference onl
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Pharmacist in Houston, TX that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Pharmacist in Houston are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of September 2015. Job Description for Pharmacist. Compounds and dispenses prescribed drugs in a healthcare facility environment. Also responsible for transferring prescriptions, handling incoming physician calls, logging data into the computer, and Drug Utilization Review. Requires a bachelor's degree and/or an advanced degree in pharmacy and is licensed to practice. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks
Read More. Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, The Kroger Company offers a range of employment opportunities in the retail, from Cashier to Pharmacy Technician. Excluding overtime pay (which bumps median pay up to $18.46), people who work for The Kroger Company earn a median wage of $9.74 per hour.
Compounds and dispenses prescribed drugs in a healthcare facility environment. Also responsible for transferring prescriptions, handling incoming physician calls, logging data into the computer, and Drug Utilization Review. Requires a bachelor's degree and/or an advanced degree in pharmacy and is licensed to practice.
The Kroger family of pharmacies is one of the nation’s leaders for careers in retail pharmacy. We attract the brightest and best pharmacists and pharmacy technicians because we offer an innovative work environment backed by unparalleled technical support and job training. Your career will advance at a dynamic pace, while you provide the first-rate care and service that Kroger retail pharmacists are known for.
If you are a licensed pharmacist or pharmacy technician and are looking for a career that is challenging and rewarding in an atmosphere that encourages career growth, then start your career search with the Kroger family of pharmacies. We attract the brightest and best pharmacists and pharmacy technicians because we offer an innovative work environment backed by unparalleled technical support and job training. Your career will advance at a dynamic pace, while you provide the first-rate care and service that Kroger retail pharmacists are known for.
$ 29000 average kroger asp salaries for job postings in houston tx are 13 % higher than average kroger asp salaries for job postings nationwide