Story at-a-glance 1  +. Dr. Barbara Royal, a holistic veterinarian, author and President-Elect of the American Holistic Veterinary Medical Foundation (AHVMF) sits down with Dr. Becker to discuss holistic and integrative medicine and the role of the AHVMF. Dr. Royal is a holistic veterinarian who practices small animal medicine and rehabilitation therapy in Chicago. She’s also an author (we’ll be discussing her latest book in an upcoming video) and President-Elect of the board of the American Holistic Veterinary Medical Foundation (AHVMF).
The philosophy of a holistic veterinarian emphasizes empathy and minimal invasiveness. Alternative therapies offered by a holistic veterinarian may include, but are not limited to, acupuncture, herbal medicine, homeopathy, ethnomedicine and chiropractic. Holistic thinking is centered on love, empathy and respect. Use of blood tests, x-rays, and similar objective diagnostic techniques is minimalized in favor of sensitivity to the animal. Nearly every form of medicine and therapy used in alternative medicine for humans is also used in holistic veterinary medicine.
The usual meaning for holistic veterinarian is a veterinarian who specializes in one or more alternative or complementary treatments. In practice, holistic veterinary medicine incorporates, but is not limited to, acupuncture, botanical medicine, chiropractic, homeopathy, massage therapy, and nutraceuticals. A veterinarian interested in alternative treatments may be a member of the American Holistic Veterinary Medical Association. Holistic thinking is centered on love, empathy and respect. Use of blood tests, x-rays, and similar objective diagnostic techniques is minimalized in favor of sensitivity to the animal. Nearly every form of medicine and therapy used in alternative medicine for humans is also used in holistic veterinary medicine.
Many veterinarians use different terms to convey what is meant by holistic. Alternative veterinary medicine, complementary veterinary medicine, and integrative veterinary medicine may be used as synonyms. Holistic thinking is centered on love, empathy and respect. Use of blood tests, x-rays, and similar objective diagnostic techniques is minimalized in favor of sensitivity to the animal. Nearly every form of medicine and therapy used in alternative medicine for humans is also used in holistic veterinary medicine.
Holistic veterinarians are different from conventional veterinarians. Animal health care in general is split. There are conventional vets, holistic vets and, more recently, integrative vets. While many principles are shared among practices, methodologies are often quite different. Traditional veterinary practice (conventional) is much like what Western medicine is for humans. An integrative approach is one that combines conventional veterinary practice and holistic veterinary practice. The veterinarian has studied traditional medicine, but he or she recognizes that holistic medicine is a valuable addition and in some cases may be the best course of action for a patient.
1 Dr. Barbara Royal, a holistic veterinarian, author and President-Elect of the American Holistic Veterinary Medical Foundation (AHVMF) sits down with Dr. Becker to discuss holistic and integrative medicine and the role of the AHVMF. Dr. Royal is a holistic veterinarian who practices small animal medicine and rehabilitation therapy in Chicago. She’s also an author (we’ll be discussing her latest book in an upcoming video) and President-Elect of the board of the American Holistic Veterinary Medical Foundation (AHVMF).
Welcome! The American Holistic Veterinary Medical Association (AHVMA) is the mindful leader, elevating the veterinary profession through innovation, education, and advocacy of integrative medicine. The AHVMA publishes a peer-reviewed scientific journal, The Journal of the American Holistic Veterinary Medical Association, three times yearly. It is the only peer-reviewed scientific journal focusing exclusively on integrative veterinary medicine.
A question worth asking. There are lots of labels out there that are suggestive, even sexy, you might say, and yet may not be true: holistic veterinarian, homeopathic veterinarian, holistic veterinary care, natural vet, etc. It was finally at this point that I could feel confident that what I offered was, in fact, holistic veterinary medicine. To be a homeopathic vet, and to do it well and fully, one by definition must be a holistic vet. You can’t practice good homeopathy and expect to get results without looking at the whole animal!