Jabez meaning. For a meaning of the name Jabez, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads He Makes Sorrowful. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names proposes He Will Cause Pain. As stated above, BDB Theological Dictionary declares meaning unknown.
Means sorrow in Hebrew. This is the name of a character in the Old Testament who is blessed by God. 
Meaning of Jabez. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Jabez means-sorrow pessimistic hard-working tolerant. Other origins for the name Jabez include-Israeli, Hebrew.The name Jabez is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning
Jabez or Jabes is a Biblical male given name from the Old Testament. It is of Hebrew origin. In Arabic and Persian it is transliterated as Yabis or Yabiz (يَعْبِيصَ). Jabez's name is also mentioned in 1 Chronicles 2:55, possibly as a place named after him. Jabez possibly could have been a Jewish scribe in his later years. He might have been influential and well respected as a scribe because the city named after him was where the families of scribes lived. Jabez is also a surname.
Meaning of Jabez. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Jabez means-Pain. In the Old Testament, Jabez was so named because he was borne by his mother in pain.. Other origins for the name Jabez include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Jabez is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Pain. In the Old Testament, Jabez was so named because he was borne by his mother in pain.
The name Jabez in the Bible. In the Bible there is one man and one city named Jabez, both of Judah, and the city is probably named after or even by the man. The man shows up in 1 Chronicles 4:9-10 in a two verse novel that suggests he was a prominent thinker and leader in his time. For a meaning of the name Jabez, NOBSE Study Bible Name List reads He Makes Sorrowful. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names proposes He Will Cause Pain. As stated above, BDB Theological Dictionary declares meaning unknown.
Biblical Meaning: The name Jabez is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Jabez is: Sorrow, trouble. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jabez is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jabez is: Pain. In the Old Testament, Jabez was so named because he was borne by his mother in pain. 
Jabez is an unusual first name for men. Jabez is an equivalently uncommon surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Jabez for boys. Jabez has not been recorded in the list thus far. 
[ 2 syll. ja-bez, jab-ez ] The baby boy name Jabez is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced in English as JH EY-BehZ †. Jabez is used chiefly in the English language and it is derived from Hebrew origins. The name is of the meaning sorrow. Jabe, Jabes, Jabesh, Jabeshe, and Jabezz are variants of Jabez. Jabez is an unusual baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names