It takes about 1 day in a mild reaction and about 2 weeks in case of a severe reaction. Doctor’s consultation is a must even in case of a mild reaction. • Food Allergies – This is the most common allergic reaction of all. This kind of allergy is a result of an adverse immune response to a particular kind of food item. It depends on the type of food allergy reaction it is. On an average it lasts for about 1 week to sometimes even just for a day or even for a few minutes. For any kind of reaction or skin rashes doctor’s treatment is required.
Answer by jaime24 (744). A rash from an allergic reaction to medicine should not last for more then 2 days. If it does you will need to seek medical attention, because it could be more serious then some cases though, a reaction can be bad enough to stay for a couple of weeks. Answer by Antony (169). Allergic reactions to Medicine are tricky. We can't predict how long it will take,may be a week. Better you should consult a Physician and follow the instructions will solve this problem.
An allergic reaction lasts at least as long as the person is exposed to the allergen. A reaction to food, for example, can last three days. Some allergic reactions can be very … dangerous, so if your breathing is compromised or the reaction is not stopping, get to a doctor. 10 people found this useful. 
Your body then releases a host of chemicals. One of them, histamine, is responsible for the symptoms that appear on your skin. Depending on the type of reaction and its severity, the duration of symptoms can vary from days to weeks. Hives are the red, itchy bumps that show up due to a food or drug allergy. They normally go away after a few days. However, some cases of chronic hives can last for months or years. Until hives go away, you can relieve symptoms using antihistamines.
Hives (Urticaria). Hives, also known as urticaria, affects about 20 percent of people at some time during their lives. It can be triggered by many substances or situations and usually starts as an itchy patch of skin that turns into swollen red welts
Fungal infections like that of ringworm can also cause the skin to swell and become irritated by an allergic skin rash. Wellness.com explains that allergic rashes that develop as a result of viruses, bacteria or fungus, can last anywhere between one and 14 days. If you suddenly become itchy and begin to break out in hives anywhere on your body, you may be experiencing an allergic rash. For most people, an allergic rash is best avoided by steering clear of what triggers it.
Red, itchy hives may also present themselves during an allergic skin reaction and can be quite uncomfortable. The itching that is involved with an allergic rash usually becomes worse the more it is scratched. Allergic rashes usually have triggers that become recognizable after the first few outbreaks. If you suddenly become itchy and begin to break out in hives anywhere on your body, you may be experiencing an allergic rash. For most people, an allergic rash is best avoided by steering clear of what triggers it.
A rash from an allergic reaction to medicine has a variable clinical course. Even after the offending drug is discontinued, it can take weeks or months for the drug reactions to disappear. The durarion for the rash to cease is related to the exposure time and the amount of drug the person was exposed to. add a comment. Answer by Antony (169). Allergic reactions to Medicine are tricky. We can't predict how long it will take,may be a week. Better you should consult a Physician and follow the instructions will solve this problem.
Meanwhile, allergic contact dermatitis is the rash that results from you touching something you're allergic to. While it may take up to 48 hours for a rash to appear, it will take anywhere from two to four weeks until the rash goes away, regardless of whether you treat it or not. Hives are the red, itchy bumps that show up due to a food or drug allergy. They normally go away after a few days. However, some cases of chronic hives can last for months or years. Until hives go away, you can relieve symptoms using antihistamines.