The Truman Doctrine was part of the United States' political response to perceived aggression by the Soviet Union in Europe and the Middle East, illustrated through the communist movements in Iran, Turkey and Greece. 
From the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty in April 1949 through the Cold War, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the terrorist attacks of the early 2000s and recent operations and partnerships to emerging security challenges, NATO is a part of history. In reaction to West Germany’s NATO accession, the Soviet Union and its Eastern European client states formed the Warsaw Pact in 1955. Europe settled into an uneasy stand-off, symbolized by the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961.
The Warsaw Pact was A military alliance of communist nations in Eastern Europe. After the USSR dissolved in the late 1980s, NATO's relationship with Russia thawed. In 2002, the NATO-Russia Council was formed to allow NATO members and Russia to partner on common security issues. Established in 1949 as a military alliance for mutual protection, NATO mission was to prevent nuclear war. Originally NATO consisted of 12 countries: the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Portugal, the Netherlands, Norway, Luxembourg, and Iceland.
Summary: The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a military alliance of countries from Europe and North America promising collective defence. Currently numbering 26 nations, NATO was formed initially to counter the communist East and has searched for a new identity in the post-Cold War world. Background: NATO had, in many ways, been formed to secure West Europe against the threat of Soviet Russia, and the Cold War of 1945 to 1991 saw an often tense military standoff between NATO on one side and the Warsaw Pact nations on the other.
The confrontation over Berlin (1948-49) and the formation of NATO meant that the Cold War would continue. Soon after the Communist victory in Indo-China, the anticommunist nations in Asia formed the South-East Asia Treaty Organization. In Europe, West Germany was admitted to the NATO in 1955 and allowed to re-arm. With the proclamation of the Truman Doctrine of March 1947 and the launching of the Marshall Plan, the United States was clearly leading the western nations to resist Russian Communist expansionist activities in Europe. Cold War had begun.
A short history of NATO. It is often said that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was founded in response to the threat posed by the Soviet Union. In reaction to West Germany’s NATO accession, the Soviet Union and its Eastern European client states formed the Warsaw Pact in 1955. Europe settled into an uneasy stand-off, symbolized by the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization was created in 1949 by the United States, Canada, and several Western European nations to provide collective security against the Soviet Union. Signing of the NATO Treaty. NATO was the first peacetime military alliance the United States entered into outside of the Western Hemisphere. After the destruction of the Second World War, the nations of Europe struggled to rebuild their economies and ensure their security.
The Warsaw Pact was a military alliance of communist nations in eastern Europe (Eastern Bloc) during the Cold War. This alliance was also known as a mutual defense organization to put the Soviet Union in command of the armed forces of the member states. Established in 1949 as a military alliance for mutual protection, NATO mission was to prevent nuclear war. Originally NATO consisted of 12 countries: the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Portugal, the Netherlands, Norway, Luxembourg, and Iceland.