ECT is one of the fastest ways to relieve symptoms in severely depressed or suicidal patients. It's also very effective for patients who suffer from mania or other mental illnesses. ECT is generally used when severe depression is unresponsive to other forms of therapy. Or it might be used when patients pose a severe threat to themselves or others and it is too dangerous to wait until medications take effect. It is also a misconception that ECT is used as a quick fix in place of long-term therapy or hospitalization. Nor is it correct to believe that the patient is painfully shocked out of the depression. Unfavorable news reports and media coverage have contributed to the controversy surrounding this treatment.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), formerly known as electroshock therapy and often referred to as shock treatment, is a psychiatric treatment in which seizures are electrically induced in patients to provide relief from psychiatric illnesses. It is the only currently used form of shock therapy in psychiatry. 
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a treatment for certain mental illnesses. During this therapy a precise, timed electrical current is passed through a patient’s brain in order to induce a seizure. The procedure is most often used to treat patients who do not respond to medication or talk therapy. In bilateral ECT, electrodes are placed on either side of the head. The treatment affects the entire brain. In unilateral ECT, one electrode is placed on the top of the head. The other is placed on the right temple. This treatment affects only the right side of the brain.
When treatments such as medication and therapy aren’t able to relieve the symptoms of depression or another mental health condition, there are other options available. A psychiatrist might suggest electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) or other forms of brain stimulation. 
A. A. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is typically used to treat severe depression, but it occasionally is used for other mental illnesses such as schizophrenia. During ECT, an electric current is briefly applied through the scalp to the brain while the patient is asleep under general anesthesia, inducing a seizure. 
A. When medication fails to ease the symptoms of clinical depression, there are other options to try. Brain stimulation techniques such as electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), for example, can be used to treat major depression that hasn't responded to standard treatments. It is also a misconception that ECT is used as a quick fix in place of long-term therapy or hospitalization. Nor is it correct to believe that the patient is painfully shocked out of the depression. Unfavorable news reports and media coverage have contributed to the controversy surrounding this treatment.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure, done under general anesthesia, in which small electric currents are passed through the brain, intentionally triggering a brief seizure. ECT seems to cause changes in brain chemistry that can quickly reverse symptoms of certain mental illnesses. 
ECT is most often used as a “treatment of last resort” for the following disorders: 1  bipolar disorder: This mood disorder is characterized by periods of intense energy and elation (mania) followed by severe depression. 2  major depressive disorder: This is a common mental disorder. In bilateral ECT, electrodes are placed on either side of the head. The treatment affects the entire brain. In unilateral ECT, one electrode is placed on the top of the head. The other is placed on the right temple. This treatment affects only the right side of the brain.
Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) is a type of brain stimulation therapy used to treat a variety of mental illnesses. ECT is used most commonly to treat severe depression, especially when other treatments have not worked. ECT was developed in 1938 and has changed a great deal since that time. 
Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) Definition: ECT is a mental health procedure used to treat medically stable individuals with me ntal illness who are drug resistant for treatment of some psychiatric disorders. Those disorders may include major depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. ECT is a mental health procedure used to treat medically stable individuals with me ntal illness who are drug.