A urine test may be done: 1  To check for a disease or infection of the urinary tract. 2  To check the treatment of conditions such as diabetes, kidney stones, a urinary tract infection (UTI), high blood pressure (hypertension), or some kidney or liver diseases. 3  As part of a regular physical examination.
Urine protein tests are used to help assess and follow the health of the kidney, and to help detect and diagnose early kidney damage and disease. A dipstick urine protein test is frequently performed as part of a urinalysis. It is used to look for the presence of protein in the urine.
A routine urine test can be done in your doctor's office, clinic, or lab. You may also be asked to collect a urine sample at home and bring it with you to the office or lab for testing. Collecting a urine sample from a small child or baby is done by using a special plastic bag with tape around its opening.
1 To check for a disease or infection of the urinary tract. 2  Symptoms of a urine infection may include colored or bad-smelling urine, pain when urinating, finding it hard to urinate, flank pain, blood in the urine (hematuria), or fever.
A urinalysis is a group of chemical and microscopic tests. They detect the byproducts of normal and abnormal metabolism, cells, cellular fragments, and bacteria in urine. Urine is produced by the kidneys, two fist-sized organs located on either side of the spine at the bottom of the ribcage.
A dipstick urine protein test is measured whenever a urinalysis is performed. This may be done as part of a routine check-up, a pregnancy check-up, when a urinary tract infection is suspected, as part of a hospital admission, or whenever the doctor wants to evaluate kidney function.
The urine protein test measures the amount of protein being excreted in the urine. There are several different kinds of urine protein tests. A semi-quantitative protein ‘dipstick’ is frequently performed as part of a urinalysis, generally on a random urine sample.
Urinalysis is a test that evaluates a sample of your urine. Urinalysis is used to detect and assess a wide range of disorders, such as urinary tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. Urinalysis involves examining the appearance, concentration and content of urine.
Why It Is Done. A urine test may be done: 1  To check for a disease or infection of the urinary tract. 2  Symptoms of a urine infection may include colored or bad-smelling urine, pain when urinating, finding it hard to urinate, flank pain, blood in the urine (hematuria), or fever.