22. denotation: the literal or dictionary meaning of a word or phrase. 23. doppelganger: in German, this word means “double-goer,” the ghostly shadow that haunts and follows its earthly counterpart; the negative or evil manifestation of what is actually on the “inside” of the haunted character. 
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by LimeAid. Confidence votes 45.0K. The literal meaning of a word is known as its denotation.. The colloquial, implied or secondary meaning is called the connotation.. It sounds as if you are looking for the etymological sense of the word. From that point of view the meaning is the killing of a people or race. However, the term was created i … n 1944 as to denote what the Nazis were doing to the Jews at the time.
1. in accordance with, involving, or being the primary or strict meaning of a word or words; not figurative or metaphorical. 2. following the words of the original very closely and exactly: a literal translation. 3. true to fact; unembellished; actual or factual: a literal description of conditions. 3. literal-limited to the explicit meaning of a word or text; a literal translation. exact-marked by strict and particular and complete accordance with fact; an exact mind; an exact copy; hit the exact center of the target.
A figure of speech is figurative language in the form of a single word or phrase. It can be a special repetition, arrangement or omission of words with literal meaning, or a phrase with a specialized meaning not based on the literal meaning of the words. 1 metaphor: Figurative language. 2  metonymy: A thing or concept is called not by its own name but rather by the name of something associated in meaning with that thing or concept. 3  neologism: The use of a word or term that has recently been created, or has been in use for a short time.
The literal or dictionary definition of a word is its: connotation denotation peruasion observation. 
− Denotation represents the explicit or referential meaning of a sign. Denotation refers to the literal meaning of a word, the ‘dictionary definition.’ For example, the name ‘Hollywood’ connotes such things as glitz, glamour, tinsel, celebrity, and dreams of stardom. Connotation refers to the wide array of positive and negative associations that most words naturally carry with them, whereas denotation is the precise, literal definition of a word that might be found in a dictionary.
Webster’s first definition of literally is, “in a literal sense or matter; actually.” Its second definition is, “in effect; virtually.” In addressing this seeming contradiction, its authors comment : “Since some people take sense 2 to be the opposition of sense 1, it has been frequently criticized as a misuse. 
These could include the contrast of a word or phrase with its primary, literal meaning (known as a denotation), with what that word or phrase specifically denotes. The connotation essentially relates to how anything may be associated with a word or phrase, for example, an implied value judgment or feelings. Connote redirects here. For Connote number, see Waybill. A connotation is a commonly understood cultural or emotional association that some word or phrase carries, in addition to the word's or phrase's explicit or literal meaning, which is its denotation.
The literal meaning of a word is its most basic meaning. She was older than I was, and not only in the literal sense. The literal meaning of the Greek word hamartia, translated as sin, is 'missing the mark'. 3. literal-limited to the explicit meaning of a word or text; a literal translation. exact-marked by strict and particular and complete accordance with fact; an exact mind; an exact copy; hit the exact center of the target.