We already know that processed tobacco comes from the tobacco plant, most commonly Nicotiana tabacum. Plants from the Nicotiana family originated from both North and South America, Australia, Africa and the South Pacific. However, the tobacco that is most commonly grown as a cash crop today originated in the Americas where it had long been cultivated and used by the native people. Christopher Columbus was the first European to be introduced to the plant on his first voyage to the New World.
The English word tobacco originates from the Spanish and Portuguese word tabaco. The precise origin of the Spanish/Portuguese word is disputed, but it is generally thought to have originated, at least in part, from Taino, the Arawakan language of the Caribbean. They are also consumed as snuff, chewing tobacco, and dipping tobacco. Tobacco use is a risk factor for many diseases, especially those affecting the heart, liver, and lungs, and several cancers. In 2008, the World Health Organization named tobacco as the world's single greatest cause of preventable death.
Where Does Tobacco Come From. 31 Aug, 2012 where does 0. Tobacco is a product made from the leaves of a variety of plants in the Nicotiana family, more commonly known as tobacco plants. This product has many uses, but it is most commonly used as a drug in products such as cigarettes and cigars. However, the tobacco that is most commonly grown as a cash crop today originated in the Americas where it had long been cultivated and used by the native people. Christopher Columbus was the first European to be introduced to the plant on his first voyage to the New World.
Tobacco has a long history in the Americas. The Mayan Indians of Mexico carved drawings in stone showing tobacco use. These drawings date back to somewhere between 600 to 900 A.D. Tobacco was grown by American Indians before the Europeans came from England, Spain, France, and Italy to North America. As it becomes more difficult for tobacco companies to sell their products in the U.S., they are looking outside. U.S. tobacco companies are now growing tobacco in Africa, South America (Brazil and Paraguay), India, Pakistan, the Phillipines, Greece, Thailand, and the Dominican Republic.
Tobacco contains the alkaloid nicotine, a stimulant. Dried tobacco leaves are mainly smoked in cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, and flavored shisha tobacco. They are also consumed as snuff, chewing tobacco, and dipping tobacco. Tobacco use is a risk factor for many diseases, especially those affecting the heart, liver, and lungs, and several cancers. In 2008, the World Health Organization named tobacco as the world's single greatest cause of preventable death.
The plant family Nicotiana and the word nicotine is named after Jean Nicot who brought tobacco seeds to Europe in 1560. He introduced snuff (tobacco that is inhaled) to the French court and from here the use of the product spread around Europe. However, the tobacco that is most commonly grown as a cash crop today originated in the Americas where it had long been cultivated and used by the native people. Christopher Columbus was the first European to be introduced to the plant on his first voyage to the New World.
Tobacco comes from the leaf of a plant, then processed. To make cigarettes, a number of chemicals are added, mainly, it is suspected, to increase consumption of the product. … The final products of tobacco may be as snuff, cigars, cigarettes, or as shredded leaf. 2 people found this useful. 
Tobacco is a product prepared from the leaves of the tobacco plant by curing them. The plant is categorized within the genus Nicotiana of the Solanaceae (nightshade) family. While more than 70 species of tobacco are known, the chief commercial crop is N. tabacum. They are also consumed as snuff, chewing tobacco, and dipping tobacco. Tobacco use is a risk factor for many diseases, especially those affecting the heart, liver, and lungs, and several cancers. In 2008, the World Health Organization named tobacco as the world's single greatest cause of preventable death.
Report Abuse. Sir Walter Raleigh brought tobacco back to England after he discovered the North American Natives growing and smoking it. From all accounts it appears to have its started in Central and South America and gradually its cultivation and use was spread by the natives into the United States. 