Carey is a surname arising from at least nine distinct patronymics in Ireland, and is numerous and widespread; the many original forms have been listed by the National Folklore Collection of Ireland in 2015, increasing the number of variants quoted by the Registrar General of Ireland in 1890. Car(e)y is also a Devonshire name, possibly from the place in Devon on the River Carey, just east of Launceston, recorded as 'Kari' (Pre-Celtic or Celtic language) in the Domesday Book (1086). An early bearer of the name, Sanson de Cari, held lands in Buckland in Devon in 1197 (Devon Feet of Fines, No. 4)
The first two entries under 'Carey' in the 'Dictionary of American Family Names' (Oxford, 2003) gives Irish origins; the New York Passengers List (1820–1957) show 2,058 Carey immigrants from Ireland compared with 345 from England. Car(e)y is also a Devonshire name, possibly from the place in Devon on the River Carey, just east of Launceston, recorded as 'Kari' (Pre-Celtic or Celtic language) in the Domesday Book (1086). An early bearer of the name, Sanson de Cari, held lands in Buckland in Devon in 1197 (Devon Feet of Fines, No. 4)
The origin of the name Carey: Irish. People who like the name Carey also like: Caleb, Ethan, Gabriel, Chase, Finn, Noah, Cole. Ava, Emma, Amelia, Victoria, Olivia, Chloe, Elizabeth. Notes: Derived from an Irish surname, O ó, ciardha meaning from the family Of. ciardha Notes: Derived from an Irish surname, O ó, ciardha meaning from the family Of. Ciardha, carey. actor
American Meaning: The name Carey is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Carey is: From the fortress. Irish Meaning: The name Carey is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Carey is: Of the dark ones. Ain use since the 19th century. Welsh Meaning: The name Carey is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Carey is: Near the castle; from the castl
The first of these is of Welsh and Cornish origin, as a variant of the locational name Carew, from any of the minor places named from the Welsh caer fort, and rhiw, hill. The Carey family who have held the estate of Antony in Cornwall throughout the Middle Ages derive their name from this source. Finally, Carey is an Anglicized form of the old Gaelic O' Ciardha, the Gaelic prefix O indicating male descendant of, plus the personal byname Ciardha from ciar dark or black. The Careys were lords of Carbury (Co.
England-Early records show that in England, the name of Carey, in the form of Cary, Karry, Kary or Kari, almost invariable appeared with the prefix ' De ' meaning ' of ' or ' belonging to '. The name therefore indicates that it is derived from a place or district. 
Carey. Carey /ca-rey/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Carey) is pronounced KER-ee. It is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Carey is love. From caru. Also possibly a place name from Welsh rhiw meaning hill fort, or from Gaelic ciar meaning black, and Latin carriarus for an occupational surname for those who moved goods. 
The Irish provenance of Carey, through emigration, is not only particularly evident in the U.S.A. and Australia, but also in Great Britain. Car(e)y is also a Devonshire name, possibly from the place in Devon on the River Carey, just east of Launceston, recorded as 'Kari' (Pre-Celtic or Celtic language) in the Domesday Book (1086). An early bearer of the name, Sanson de Cari, held lands in Buckland in Devon in 1197 (Devon Feet of Fines, No. 4)