Thalassemia and Pregnancy: Prenatal Testing. Prenatal testing for thalassemia can be done when a woman is 11 weeks pregnent using chorionic villi sampling (CVS). CVS involves the removal of a tiny piece of the placenta, which will then be tested. Prenatal testing can also be done with an amniocentesis when a woman is 16 weeks pregnant. If a women or her spouse has a family history of thalassemia, they may want to consider genetic testing before becoming pregnant. Blood tests and family genetic studies can show whether an individual has thalassemia or is a carrier of thalassemia trait.
Hemoglobin is the part of red blood cells that carries oxygen to the rest of the body. A person with thalassemia has fewer healthy red blood cells than normal. This can lead to anemia, a condition that happens when you don’t have enough healthy red blood cells or your red blood cells are too small. If your baby has signs and symptoms of thalassemia after birth, your baby’s health care provider can give your baby a blood test to check for the condition. The blood test checks your baby’s red blood cells for size, color and shape.
1 People who have alpha or beta thalassemia trait may have red blood cells that are smaller than normal. 2  Hemoglobin tests measure the types of hemoglobin in a blood sample. 3  People who have thalassemias have problems with the alpha or beta globin protein chains of hemoglobin. 1 People who have thalassemias have fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin than normal in their blood. 2  People who have alpha or beta thalassemia trait may have red blood cells that are smaller than normal. 3  Hemoglobin tests measure the types of hemoglobin in a blood sample
Blood tests may also be used to: 1  Measure the amount of iron in your child's blood. 2  Evaluate his or her hemoglobin. 3  Perform DNA analysis to diagnose thalassemia or to determine if a person is carrying mutated hemoglobin genes. If your doctor suspects your child has thalassemia, he or she may confirm a diagnosis using blood tests. If your child has thalassemia, blood tests may reveal: 1  A low level of red blood cells. 2  Smaller than expected
1 If you are planning to have children and both you and your partner carry the trait for thalassemia, your future children could be born with thalassemia disease, which is a serious medical condition. 2  Prenatal and other testing options are available to couples found to be at risk for having a baby with the disease. 1 Women who carry the trait may be more likely to develop anemia during their pregnancy. 2  It is important to discuss this condition with your medical provider. 3  Your Health Matters. 4  When a trait carrier has a blood test, their red blood cells may appear smaller than what is normal.
Prenatal (in utero) testing is not addressed in this policy. Hemoglobin, which is the major oxygen carrying protein molecule of red blood cells, consists of two alpha globin chains and two beta globin chains. Alpha-thalassemia refers to a group of syndromes that arise from deficient production of alpha globin chains. 
The thalassemias are a group of genetic blood diseases that cause a reduction of the production of normal hemoglobin in the red blood cells. Hemoglobin is a protein carried by the red blood cells, which brings oxygen to all the parts of the body. The reduction of hemoglobin in the blood results in anemia. There are two types of thalassemia, alpha thalassemia and beta thalassemia, depending on which protein chain of the hemoglobin molecule is missing in the red blood cells. The thalassemias are especially common in areas where there are high rates of malaria, such as southeast Asia, China, the Mediterranean, and Africa. Women and their partners who want to become pregnant and who come from these areas should undergo testing to determine whether they carry the thalassemia trait.
DNA testing is the only way to determine silent alpha thalassemia trait and the related hemoglobin trait called hemoglobin Constant Spring. DNA testing may also be necessary in order to allow for the option of prenatal testing. 1 Women who carry the trait may be more likely to develop anemia during their pregnancy. 2  It is important to discuss this condition with your medical provider. 3  Your Health Matters. 4  When a trait carrier has a blood test, their red blood cells may appear smaller than what is normal.
Testing can be done before a baby is born to find out if it has thalassemia and determine how severe it may be. Tests used to diagnose thalassemia in fetuses include: 1  Chorionic villus sampling. 2  This test is usually done around the 11th week of pregnancy and involves removing a tiny piece of the placenta for evaluation. 3  Amniocentesis. If your doctor suspects your child has thalassemia, he or she may confirm a diagnosis using blood tests. If your child has thalassemia, blood tests may reveal: 1  A low level of red blood cells. 2  Smaller than expected