Your tricuspid valve is the valve that separates your right atrium and right ventricle. TR occurs when this valve does not properly close, causing blood to flow back up into the right atrium when the right ventricle contracts. Over time, this condition can weaken your heart. Right Ventricle Dilation. The most common cause of tricuspid regurgitation is right ventricle dilation. The right ventricle (which is the lower right-hand chamber) is responsible for pumping blood from your heart to your lungs.
A person with tricuspid insufficiency has a leaky tricuspid valve in the heart. When the tricuspid valve opens, blood flows from the right atrium, into the right ventricle. A closed tricuspid valve prevents the backflow of blood from the right ventricle, into the right atrium. Tricuspid insufficiency results when the tricuspid valve does not completely close, due to scarring, thickening, or malformation of the valve. The leaking valve places stress on the heart. Symptoms of tricuspid insufficiency may include palpitations, fatigue, shortness of breath, and poor appetite. Symptoms of worsening tricuspid insufficiency include leg swelling, foot swelling (bilateral) , arm swelling (bilateral) , and abdominal swelling.
Tricuspid insufficiency (TI) , a valvular heart disease also called tricuspid regurgitation (TR), refers to the failure of the heart's tricuspid valve to close properly during systole. As a result, with each heart beat some blood passes from the right ventricle to the right atrium, the opposite of the normal direction. Tricuspid regurgitation occurs in roughly less than 1% of people and is usually asymptomatic, but may also be a feature of pulmonary hypertension and right-sided heart failure.
Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) is insufficiency of the tricuspid valve causing blood flow from the right ventricle to the right atrium during systole. The most common cause is dilation of the right ventricle. 
Back to Top Causes. The tricuspid valve separates the right lower heart chamber (the right ventricle) from the right upper heart chamber (right atrium). The most common cause of tricuspid regurgitation is enlargement of the right ventricle, which pumps blood to the lungs, where it picks up oxygen. This enlargement may be a complication of any disorder that causes extra strain on the right ventricle.
Tricuspid regurgitation is a disorder in which the heart 's tricuspid valve does not close properly, causing blood to flow backward-LRB-leak-RRB-into the right upper heart chamber-LRB-atrium-RRB-when the right lower heart chamber-LRB-ventricle-RRB-contracts. Treatment. The tricuspid valve separates the right lower heart chamber-LRB-the right ventricle-RRB-from the right upper heart chamber-LRB-right atrium-RRB- .The most common cause of tricuspid regurgitation is swelling of the right ventricle. The prescription Phen-FEN...now illegal, causes heart valve failure.
In order to understand tricuspid regurgitation (TR), it helps to understand a little about the anatomy of your heart. Your heart is divided into four sections, called “chambers.” The upper chambers are the left atria and right atria, and the lower chambers are the left ventricle and right ventricle. Right Ventricle Dilation. The most common cause of tricuspid regurgitation is right ventricle dilation. The right ventricle (which is the lower right-hand chamber) is responsible for pumping blood from your heart to your lungs.
Tricuspid regurgitation is a disorder in which the heart's tricuspid valve does not close properly, causing blood to flow backward (leak) into the right upper heart chamber (atrium) when the right lower heart chamber (ventricle) contracts. News & Features. The most common cause of tricuspid regurgitation is enlargement of the right ventricle, which pumps blood to the lungs, where it picks up oxygen. This enlargement may be a complication of any disorder that causes extra strain on the right ventricle.
Tricuspid valve regurgitation is a condition in which the valve between the two right heart chambers (right ventricle and right atrium) doesn't close properly. This situation results in blood flowing back into your heart's upper right chamber (right atrium). Tricuspid valve regurgitation. In tricuspid valve regurgitation, shown in the heart on the right, the valve between the two right heart chambers (right ventricle and right atrium) doesn't close properly. This situation results in blood flowing back into your heart's upper right chamber (right atrium). A normal heart is shown on the left