The Design Sponge tutorial (here’s a link to it), pointed to several videos on YouTube that explained/showed the procedure. The only one I needed is the one entitled “How To Tie The Monkey’s Fist.” Yup, it seems that cool sailor’s knot is called a Monkey’s Fist, which, when you look at it, is apropos. Ultimately, it took about 20 minutes to make mine, pictured above, and all of $12 (for the rope I bought at my local hardware store). As soon as I it, I was reminded of a how-to I once saw on Design Sponge that recreated the pricey item ($50) for peanuts. When I returned home from that shopping trip, I found the tutorial and got to work.
The extra rope that is left at the end can be tucked in to the knot. To make the handle of the knot, take the remaining rope and tuck it in, creating a loop: A drop of crazy glue will help to hold it in place. Use it as a doorstop, decoration on books, on a door handle or just on its own. This knot is called the Monkey's Fist and it really is simple to make. The thicker your rope, the easier it will be, believe it or not. I bought 1/2 inch manila rope at Lowe's for 48 cents a foot. You'll need 12 feet.
A monkey fist knot is an ingenious nautical knot tied from one continuous strand of rope and was used as an end weight by seamen and pirates to heave a long rope line from ship-to-shore or ship-to-ship, as a rescue lifeline for those who were tossed overboard (not who walked the plank) and as weapons in tavern brawls. 
I was very happy with the Rope Knot Doorstop that I recently purchased, and was able to take advantage of a Ballard's sale, so the price was great. After installing hardwood floors throughout my home, I needed a door stop that was both good looking, and one that wouldn't damage the hardwood. 
1-2 hours-depending on how long it takes to learn knot :). instructions: 1. take your practice rope and try tying the knot a few times. here are the online tutorials i found helpful: – youtube tutorial #1: skip ahead to 1:52 to see the knot being tied. this is one of the clearer videos, but i needed more than this to learn. 3. for the doorstop, take a tennis ball and cut a 2″ long slit in it with a knife or your scissors. pinch the slit open and fill with sand, rice, or small pebbles.
– if none of these are helping you, feel free to search for more: “how to tie a monkey’s fist knot” should do the trick. you can also email or comment here and i will try to give tips if i can! 2. once you’ve mastered the knot in practice form, it’s time to do it with your big rope. leave about 12″ of rope dangling off your left hand and use the rest to create the loops with your right hand. stop once you have the knot assembled. DO NOT TIGHTEN YET. 3. for the doorstop, take a tennis ball and cut a 2″ long slit in it with a knife or your scissors. pinch the slit open and fill with sand, rice, or small pebbles.
ROPE LIGHTHOUSE DOORSTOP. These natural rope door stops made from 8mm.Grade 1 manila are a unique design to me. They measure approximately 320mm. in height by a maximum diammeter of 130mm. and weigh 2.8k. ROPE FOUR STRAND MONKEY FIST DOORSTOP. A sculptural yet very functional item of ropework
I first saw a nautical door stop in the flesh about 2 months ago at a boutique in a local up-scale shopping mall. As soon as I it, I was reminded of a how-to I once saw on Design Sponge that recreated the pricey item ($50) for peanuts. When I returned home from that shopping trip, I found the tutorial and got to work.