The peso (originally established as the peso convertible) is the currency of Argentina, identified by the symbol $ preceding the amount in the same way as many countries using dollar currencies. It is subdivided into 100 centavos. Its ISO 4217 code is ARS. Several earlier currencies of Argentina were also called peso; as inflation progressed a new currency with a few zeroes dropped and a different qualifier (peso national currency, peso law 18188, peso argentino ...) was introduced.
The Argentine peso (Spanish: Peso argentino; symbol : $ ; code: ARS) is the currency of Argentina. It is subdivided into 100 centavos. Several earlier currencies of Argentina were also called  peso , and the first of such currencies, the peso fuerte and peso moneda corriente were introduced in 1826. In 1826, two currencies denominated in pesos were introduced within Argentina. One, the peso fuerte (symbol: $F; code: ARF) was a convertible currency, with 17 pesos equaling one Spanish ounce (27.0643 g) of 0.916 fine gold. It was subdivided into 100 centesimos. In 1864, this was changed to 16 pesos per gold ounce
DEFINITION of 'ARS (Argentinian Nuevo peso)'. The currency abbreviation, or currency symbol, for the Argentinian Nuevo peso (ARS), the currency for Argentina. The Argentinian Nuevo peso is made up of 100 centavos and is often presented with the symbol $, or sometimes N$. The Argentinian Nuevo peso uses the same currency symbol as the U.S. so to avoid confusion Argentinians use US$ or U$A when referring to the U.S. dollar. 
Look no further. The currency used in Argentina is the peso ($). Paper money is available in values of 2,5,10,20,50 and 100 pesos. One peso equals 100 centavos and coins are available in values of 1,5,10,25 and 50 centavos and one peso. 
Currency Symbols-FX Exchange Rate. Currency Symbols. This is the page of the currency symbols that lists all currency symbols of the world, along with currency full names and currency codes (ISO 4217). Currency symbol is used as shorthand for a currency's name, especially referring to amounts of money. It is a graphic symbol which typically employs the first letter or character of the currency, sometimes with minor changes. Such as the dollar sign $, Yen sign ¥, and the Euro sign €.
Argentina, Peso. The Argentine Peso is the currency of Argentina. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Argentina Peso exchange rate is the USD to ARS rate. The currency code for Pesos is ARS, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Argentine Peso rates and a currency converter
DEFINITION of 'ARP (Argentinian peso)'. The currency abbreviation, or currency symbol, for the Argentinian peso (ARP), one of the previously used currencies in Argentina. The Argentinian peso is often presented with the symbol $a and was used as a curency from 1983 to 1985. Next Up. 
Money and Currency in Argentina. Argentine 100 Peso Bill. The currency used in Argentina is the Argentine peso. One United States Dollar is approximately 4 pesos, one British Pound approximately 6 pesos and one euro approximately 5 pesos. To convert your currency into pesos with real-time rates click here: South America Living – Currency Calculator.