Directions. In a small dry skillet over medium heat toast the coriander, mustard seeds, juniper berries, and peppercorns until fragrant, about 1 minute. Put them on a plate to cool. In a bowl mix the sugar and salt with 2 cups of water until dissolved. Put the pork roast into a deep bowl or a large plastic bag. Remove the pork roast from the brine about 1/2 hour before you will be ready to cook it to allow it to come up to room temperature. When ready to cook, heat a grill to high heat. Dry the pork, rub it with olive oil, and season it with pepper.
Directions. 1  Bring water, salt and sugar to boil. 2  Add bay leaves, cloves, cinnamon stick, peppercorns and garlic. 3  Simmer 5 minutes. 4  Remove from heat and let cool to room temp. 5  Pour over pork roast and marinate a minimum of 8 hours or overnight. 6  Drain. 7  Pre-heat oven to 250 degrees. 1 Add bay leaves, cloves, cinnamon stick, peppercorns and garlic. 2  Simmer 5 minutes. 3  Remove from heat and let cool to room temp. 4  Pour over pork roast and marinate a minimum of 8 hours or overnight. 5  Drain. 6  Pre-heat oven to 250 degrees. 7  Season meat with salt and pepper. 8  Place in a roasting pan with meat side down
Let it sit in the brine in the refrigerator for 2 to 6 hours. Remove the pork roast from the brine about 1/2 hour before you will be ready to cook it to allow it to come up to room temperature. When ready to cook, heat a grill to high heat. Dry the pork, rub it with olive oil, and season it with pepper. Sear the pork on all sides to get grill mark
1 Bring water, salt and sugar to boil. 2  Add bay leaves, cloves, cinnamon stick, peppercorns and garlic. 3  Simmer 5 minutes. 4  Remove from heat and let cool to room temp. 5  Pour over pork roast and marinate a minimum of 8 hours or overnight. 6  Drain. 7  Pre-heat oven to 250 degrees. 8  Season meat with salt and pepper. 1 Add bay leaves, cloves, cinnamon stick, peppercorns and garlic. 2  Simmer 5 minutes. 3  Remove from heat and let cool to room temp. 4  Pour over pork roast and marinate a minimum of 8 hours or overnight. 5  Drain. 6  Pre-heat oven to 250 degrees. 7  Season meat with salt and pepper. 8  Place in a roasting pan with meat side down
Bring brown sugar, 1 cup salt, 2 bay leaves, 1 tablespoon coriander seeds, 1 teaspoon peppercorns, and 2 cups water to a boil in a medium saucepan. Reduce heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until sugar and salt dissolve, about 4 minutes. Transfer brine to a large bowl and add cider and 2 cups ice. Let cool. Place pork and brine in a large (2-gallon) resealable plastic bag. Seal bag and chill at least 8 hours.
1 Place pork roast into a large nonreactive bowl, pour brine over pork, and cover; marinate in refrigerator for 12 to 24 hours. 2  Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat; cook and stir apple and shallots into hot oil until shallots are soft, about 5 minutes. 1 Let brine cool to room temperature. 2 
1 Mix water, salt, 1/3 cup maple syrup, garlic, ginger, rosemary, black pepper, and red pepper flakes in a large bowl. 2  Place pork loin in brine mixture and refrigerate for 8 to 10 hours. 3  Remove pork from brine, pat dry, and season all sides with salt and black pepper. 4  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). 1 Place pork loin in brine mixture and refrigerate for 8 to 10 hours. 2  Remove pork from brine, pat dry, and season all sides with salt and black pepper. 3  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). 4  Heat vegetable oil in an oven-proof skillet over high heat. 5  Cook pork, turning to brown each side, about 10 minutes total
1 Remove roast from brine, rinse, and pat dry with paper towels, and roast (on a rack or grill pan) according to your favorite recipe until a thermometer, inserted in the center of the roast, reads 155 degrees. 2  Allow the roast to rest for 20 minutes before carving. Brining is a technique that is makes the roast more juicy, by making possible the accumulation of juices within the meat during cooking. The proportion of salt to water must be 1/3 to 1/2 cup per each 2 quarts of liquid (or 2/3 to 1 cup of salt per gallon), in order for this transformation to occur.