Sebaceous Cyst. You’re nothing special – most people will get an epidermoid cyst at some point in their life but these smooth round lumps, commonly found on the scalp, neck, face, chest and upper back can often, quite understandably, cause alarm.
Introduction to Cyst Removal. A cyst removal procedure is designed to smooth out skin, banish lumps and reduce imperfections on the skin caused by a cyst. Most cysts (known as epidermoid and pilar cysts or commonly known as sebaceous cysts) are not cancerous and don’t cause pain or harm (unless they become infected). 
Introduction. A skin cyst is a fluid-filled bump lying just underneath the skin. It's common and harmless, and may just go away without treatment. However, it can be hard to tell whether a lump is a cyst or something else that might need treatment. So, if you have any sort of lump, it's best to see your GP so it can be properly diagnosed. You can also read our page on lumps and swellings, to get a better idea of what your lump is. Some people confuse cysts with boils or skin abscesses. Your GP will use a local anaesthetic to numb your skin, make a tiny cut in the skin, and squeeze the cyst out. This procedure will leave a scar. Also, the cyst may still grow back at later date, especially if it was removed from the scalp or scrotum (pouch of skin containing the testicles).
If you have any concerns, you can check out NHS Choices, but ultimately it is always best to check with a health professional. My husband has a 1.5cm sebaceous cyst right in the middle of his forehead-it is very round and prominent. You’re nothing special – most people will get an epidermoid cyst at some point in their life but these smooth round lumps, commonly found on the scalp, neck, face, chest and upper back can often, quite understandably, cause alarm.
Yes. If your cyst becomes infected, your GP might prescribe an antibiotic. Both types of cyst can be removed under local anaesthetic, although you will be left with a scar. Occasionally the cyst can regrow, especially on the scalp or scrotum. It is not possible to tell epidermoid and pilar cysts apart, except with the aid of a microscope. Pilar cysts are most commonly found on the scalp. Epidermoid cysts are usually found on the face, neck and upper trunk.
Home treatment for a lump on the scrotal skin, such as a sebaceous (epidermal) cyst, may relieve symptoms but may not make the cyst go away. A sebaceous cyst is a sac filled with a cheeselike, greasy material (sebum) caused by plugged ducts at the site of a hair follicle. 
A cyst is a sac that is filled by a liquid or a semi-solid. Two of the most common types of cysts that form under the skin in various parts of the body are epidermoid and pilar cysts. They used to be called sebaceous cysts, but this term has been abandoned as they do not contain sebaceous fluid as was once thought. It is not possible to tell epidermoid and pilar cysts apart, except with the aid of a microscope. Pilar cysts are most commonly found on the scalp. Epidermoid cysts are usually found on the face, neck and upper trunk.
If it's not IN the vagina, then it could be a cyst or a pimple/boil. Try to keep that area dry and apply neosporin. If it's a boil, it will eventually open. Try taking a warm bath with Epson salt. Sit in the tub for at least 25 minutes. Let the warm salt water clean the area. If it's a boil, this will help. You’re nothing special – most people will get an epidermoid cyst at some point in their life but these smooth round lumps, commonly found on the scalp, neck, face, chest and upper back can often, quite understandably, cause alarm.
The scalp, ears, back, face, and upper arm, are common sites for sebaceous cysts, though they may occur anywhere on the body except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. In males a common place for them to develop is the scrotum and chest. A sebaceous cyst /sɪˈbeɪʃəs sɪst/ is a general term that is used to refer to either: 1  Epidermoid cysts (also termed epidermal cysts, infundibular cyst), or. 2  Pilar cysts (also termed trichelemmal cysts, isthmus-catagen cysts)