Leptospirosis is a rare bacterial disease caused by bacteria of the genus Leptospira. 
Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease that affects humans and animals. It is caused by bacteria of the genus Leptospira. In humans it causes a wide range of symptoms, and some infected persons may have no symptoms at all. Symptoms of leptospirosis include high fever, severe headache, chills, muscle aches, and vomiting, and may include jaundice (yellow skin and eyes), red eyes, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or a rash.
1 Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. 3  Leptospirosis isn’t a new disease – in fact, it’s ancient
Leptospirosis. Leptospirosis is a disease caused by infection with Leptospira bacteria. These bacteria can be found worldwide in soil and water. There are many strains of Leptospira bacteria that can cause disease. Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease, which means it can be spread from animals to people. Infection in people can cause flu-like symptoms and can cause liver or kidney disease. In the United States, most cases of human leptospirosis result from recreational activities involving water.
Causes of leptospirosis. Leptospirosis is caused by a strain of bacteria called leptospira, which is found in certain animals and can spread to humans. Many different kinds of animals can carry the bacteria, but it is most commonly associated with: 1  rats and mice. 2  farm animals, such as pigs, cattle, horses and sheep. 3  dogs. 
Canine leptospirosis, “lepto” for short, is an infection caused by at least four species of Leptospira bacteria, or serovars. We know there are actually over 20 different serovars in existence that could potentially infect dogs and hundreds of non-pathogenic serovars. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. 3  Leptospirosis isn’t a new disease – in fact, it’s ancient
Outbreaks of leptospirosis are usually caused by exposure to water contaminated with the urine of infected animals. Many different kinds of animals carry the bacterium; they may become sick but sometimes have no symptoms. Leptospira organisms have been found in cattle, pigs, horses, dogs, rodents, and wild animals. 