The most common species include Penicillium chrysogenum (also known as P. notatum), Penicillium frequentans, Penicillium citrinum, Penicillium janthinellum, Penicillium marneffei, and Penicillium purpurogenum. Penicillium molds prefer damp and dark places, but can occur elsewhere. In a study of Penicillium species, IgE cross-reactivity among the major allergens of P. oxalicum and P. notatum and the 33 kDa major allergen of P. citrinum was detected by immunoblot inhibition studies.
(Redirected from Penicillium notatum). Penicillium chrysogenum is a species of fungus in the family Trichocomaceae. It is common in temperate and subtropical regions and can be found on salted food products, but it is mostly found in indoor environments, especially in damp or water-damaged buildings. It was previously known as Penicillium notatum. It is the source of several β-lactam antibiotics, most significantly penicillin. Other secondary metabolites of P. chrysogenum include roquefortine C, meleagrin, chrysogine, xanthocillins, secalonic acids, sorrentanone, sorbicillin, and PR-toxin.
Spores from this species of mold are found everywhere in the air and soil. As mentioned earlier, Penicillium species are one of the most common causes of spoilage of fruits and vegetables. For example, P. italicum and P. digitatum are common causes of rot of citrus fruits, while P. expansum is known to spoil apples. Penicillium chrysogenum is the most common species in indoor environment
Penicillium is classified as a genus of: domain eukaryota, kingdom Fungi, division Ascomycota (order Eurotiales, class Eurotiomycetes, family Trichocomaceae). The ability of these Penicillium species to grow on seeds and other stored foods depends on their propensity to thrive in low humidity and to colonize rapidly by aerial dispersion while the seeds are sufficiently moist. Some species have a blue color, commonly growing on old bread and giving it a blue fuzzy texture.
Genus: Penicillium Fungi within the genus Penicillium are filamentous and cotton-like in texture. The colonies usually begin as a whitish color and, over time, produce green, blueish green, grey, yellow, or pink hues. Organisms within Penicillium tend to have flask-shaped phialides (the structure which produces conidia). 
The genus Penicillium falls into the order Eurotiales. In this order, organisms produce asci within cleistothecia. Penicillium is often reffered to as Deuteromycetes, or Fungi imperfecti. The name Penicillium comes from the word brush; this refers to the appearance of spores in Penicillium. One species, Penicillium chrysogenum 9' , is classified as a psychrotrophic microorganism. Bancerz et. al. For example, Penicillium roquefortii is used to make bleu cheese. The color of the cheese comes from the spores (conidia) of the fungus. The spores are injected into the cheese curd during fermentation. Penicillium camambertii is another species used to produce cheese.
Penicillium species. Penicillium chrysogenum spores. Penicillium is genus of moulds found everywhere world-wide. The name Penicillium comes from the resemblance of the spore producing structures (conidiophores) of the fungus to a paintbrush (penicillus is the Latin word for paintbrush). As mentioned earlier, Penicillium species are one of the most common causes of spoilage of fruits and vegetables. For example, P. italicum and P. digitatum are common causes of rot of citrus fruits, while P. expansum is known to spoil apples.
“Resolution of four large chromosomes in penicillin-producing filamentous fungi: the penicillin gene cluster is located on chromosome II (9.6 Mb) in Penicillium notatum and chromosome I 10.4 Mb) in Penicillium chrysogenum”. MGG. Quit a lot is known about the antibiotic properties of Penicillium chrysogenum; however, little is known regarding the antifungal properties it contains. Penicillium Antifungal Protein (PAF) is a protein which inhibits the growth of certain taxonomically related filamentous fungi.
Penicillium (/ˌpɛnɪˈsɪlɪəm/) is a genus of ascomycetous fungi of major importance in the natural environment as well as food and drug production. Some members of the genus produce penicillin, a molecule that is used as an antibiotic, which kills or stops the growth of certain kinds of bacteria inside the body. The ability of these Penicillium species to grow on seeds and other stored foods depends on their propensity to thrive in low humidity and to colonize rapidly by aerial dispersion while the seeds are sufficiently moist. Some species have a blue color, commonly growing on old bread and giving it a blue fuzzy texture.
However, Penicillium is not merely a harmful fungus. It also has many useful species. For example, Penicillium roquefortii is used to make bleu cheese. The color of the cheese comes from the spores (conidia) of the fungus. The spores are injected into the cheese curd during fermentation. Penicillium camambertii is another species used to produce cheese.