Borderline personality disorder vs. sociopathy. This was an interesting article from the Psychology Today blog relating an experiment done examining the brain activity of sociopaths and comparing it to that of people with borderline personality disorder. 
Psychopathy (/saɪˈkɒpəθi/), also known as—though sometimes distinguished from— sociopathy (/soʊsiˈɒpəθi/), is traditionally defined as a personality disorder characterized by enduring antisocial behavior, diminished empathy and remorse, and disinhibited or bold behavior. The DSM and International Classification of Diseases (ICD) subsequently introduced the diagnoses of antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) and dissocial personality disorder, stating that these have been referred to (or include what is referred to) as psychopathy or sociopathy.
Not having a conscience) ( sociopath  is an outdated term for psychopath) borderline personality=is typically a long-standing set of traits that cause extreme and chronic relationship problems narcissistic personality =long-standing belief and acting that one is superior to others. ...Read more. Dr. Andrea Brand. 
Key Difference: Borderline Personality Disorder is a mental condition in which people experience reckless and impulsive behavior, unstable moods and relationships. These are two different disorders and should not be mistaken as the other.
The main feature of borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a pervasive pattern of instability in interpersonal relationships, self-image and emotions. People with borderline … personality disorder are also usually very impulsive. This disorder occurs in most by early adulthood. Borderline personality disorder is..A personality disorder marked by a long-standing pattern of instability in interpersonal relationships, behavior, mood, and self-image that … can interfere with social or occupational functioning or cause extreme emotional distress.
The borderline psychopath will try every trick she can to get a response. The borderline psychopath and the sociopathic female will spread all kinds of lies and nasty rumors (this is something she is notorious for) and she has usually been doing this since childhood. She is an accomplished liar and professional cheater, she is always looking for the easier road to travel (she is lazy).
And this is what makes a difference between a psychopath and a sociopath that I’ve talked about in another video. Psychopath is organic, sociopath is environmental. There are different types of borderline people, just like there are different types of antisocial. Let’s see what this site says about it. A serial killer, which is what everybody thinks when they hear the word psychopath, is probably all of these types. Now, in borderline you have the impulsive type and just the borderline type. I don’t know what they mean by this.
Borderline and sociopath are two different kind of mental conditions that people can suffer from. Sociopath is actually a very common mental disorder and according to statistic a person may encounter at least one sociopath during their lifetime. Sociopath is actually an informal name for Antisocial Personality Disorder. These are two different disorders and should not be mistaken as the other. Borderline Personality Disorder is a mental condition in which people experience reckless and impulsive behavior, unstable moods and relationships.
Best Answer: Psychopath is an umbrella term used for excess interest or disinterest in a particular object or activity. It is commonly used to refer to any abnormal behavior. Borderline personality disorder is related to emotions in an extreme form. It has lesser to do with the action a person takes. For example, extreme possessiveness is an example of Borderline personality disorder.
Report Abuse. Being a psychopath [also known as anti-social personality disorder or being a sociopath] is similar to borderline personality disorder in many ways, such as they are both personality disorders in the 'dramatic' category. Borderline personality disorder is related to emotions in an extreme form. It has lesser to do with the action a person takes. For example, extreme possessiveness is an example of Borderline personality disorder.