According to one recent study, long-term use of proton pump inhibitors such as Prilosec, Prevacid, and Nexium (“the purple pill”)—drugs that suppress the amount of gastric acid your stomach produces—is associated with vitamin B12 deficiency. Symptoms of acid reflux, or GERD, include heartburn, wheezing, tightness in your throat, or a feeling that food is stuck in your throat. Typically, acid reflux is believed to be caused by excessive stomach acid production.
Treatment for sweating. The treatment you have will depend on the cause of your sweating. If you have an infection, antibiotics will treat the infection and stop the sweating. If your sweating is due to cancer, treating the cancer can get rid of the sweating. If you have sweating because treatment has changed your hormone levels, it may settle down after a few weeks or months, once your body is used to the treatment. Talk to your doctor or nurse about your sweats. Infection. Infection is one of the most common causes of sweating in people who have cancer. Infection can give you a high temperature and your body sweats to try and reduce it. Treating the infection can control or
Esomeprazole is used to treat certain stomach and esophagus problems (such as acid reflux, ulcers). It works by decreasing the amount of acid your stomach makes. Side Effects. See also Precautions section. Headache or abdominal pain may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects.
Nexium (esomeprazole) is a powerful prescription anti-acid medication commonly prescribed to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD or heartburn acid reflux), ulcers and erosive esophagitis. 
Uses. Esomeprazole is used to treat certain stomach and esophagus problems (such as acid reflux, ulcers). It works by decreasing the amount of acid your stomach makes. It relieves symptoms such as heartburn, difficulty swallowing, and persistent cough. Side Effects. See also Precautions section. Headache or abdominal pain may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects.
Summary: Sweating-excessive is found among people who take Nexium, especially for people who are 60+ old, have been taking the drug for. Personalized health information: on eHealthMe you can find out what patients like me (same gender, age) reported their drugs and conditions on FDA and social media since 1977. 1 I am a 56 year old female who has been taking Nexium for 13 years and has been plagued by shingles.. 2  Support group for people who have Sweating-Excessive.  3 Been on warfarin for 6 days and having sweating at times.
Common US brands of over the counter antacids include: Pepto-Bismol, Milk of Magnesia, Rolaids, Tums, Alka-Seltzer, Mylanta, Rolaids, Maalox, and Gaviscon. Natural antacids may also be present in your grocery cart in items such as sodium bicarbonate (baking soda). 
Support group for people who take NexiumI am a 56 year old female who has been taking Nexium for 13 years and has been plagued by shingles.Support group for people who have Sweating-ExcessiveBeen on warfarin for 6 days and having sweating at times. 1 I am a 56 year old female who has been taking Nexium for 13 years and has been plagued by shingles.. 2  Support group for people who have Sweating-Excessive.  3 
NEXIUM may help your acid-related symptoms, but you could still have serious stomach problems. Talk with your doctor. NEXIUM can cause serious side effects, including: 1  Diarrhea. 2  NEXIUM may increase your risk of getting severe diarrhea. 3  This diarrhea may be caused by an infection (Clostridium difficile) in your intestines.
More questions for: Nexium, Sweating-excessive. You may be interested at these reviews (Write a review): 1  Xarelto caused shortness of breath. 2  After taking Xarelto for 3 years I suddently experienced shortness of breath, sweating and pain in my arms. 3  Myrbetriq & hyperhidrosis (night sweats). 1 I am a 56 year old female who has been taking Nexium for 13 years and has been plagued by shingles.. 2  Support group for people who have Sweating-Excessive.  3 Been on warfarin for 6 days and having sweating at times.