As a diagnostic medical sonographer, you could be the one looking for that answer to this or many other life-impacting health questions with the use of ultrasound technology. Diagnostic Medical Sonography is one of the most dynamic and fascinating careers available in medical imaging. 
Diagnostic medical sonographers use sophisticated equipment to project sound waves into patients' bodies and create images of their tissues for medical diagnostic purposes. Sonographers can choose from several specialization options, including abdomen, breast, vascular and cardiac sonography. Diagnostic medical sonographers must complete 24 continuing education credits every two years to remain certified. To maintain ARDMS credentials, sonographers must earn at least 30 continuing medical education (CME) credits in a 3-year period and pay an annual renewal fee.
Through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), sonographers can also pursue certification, such as the registered diagnostic medical sonographer (RDMS), registered diagnostic cardiac sonographer (RDCS), registered vascular technologist (RVT) or registered in musculoskeletal (RMSK). Diagnostic medical sonographers must complete 24 continuing education credits every two years to remain certified. To maintain ARDMS credentials, sonographers must earn at least 30 continuing medical education (CME) credits in a 3-year period and pay an annual renewal fee.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics expects employment of sonographers to grow 44% from 2010 to 2020. Associate's and bachelor's degree programs will train you in multiple areas of sonography and prepare you for an entry-level position as a diagnostic medical sonographer. Bachelor's in Medical Sonography. Bachelor's-level students are usually required to complete general education requirements and introductory-level healthcare courses during the first two years of the degree program.
Is it a boy or a girl? As a diagnostic medical sonographer, you could be the one answering this or a host of other life-changing medical questions with the help of ultrasound technology. Beyond babies, sonograms are used to help diagnose other medical conditions by creating images of body organs and tissues. 
An associate or bachelor's degree is typically required to pursue employment as a diagnostic medical sonographer. Students also have the option to graduate with a degree in a related field, pursue a certificate program in diagnostic medical sonography and then receive on-the-job training. Diagnostic medical sonographers must complete 24 continuing education credits every two years to remain certified. To maintain ARDMS credentials, sonographers must earn at least 30 continuing medical education (CME) credits in a 3-year period and pay an annual renewal fee.
A medical sonographer may enter the field through on-the-job training in a sonography practice that has been accredited by AIUM (American Institution of Ultrasound in Medicine, www.aium.org). They may also train through a formal education program or a mixture of both formal and on-the-job training. A medical sonographer uses machinery, which generates sound waves to create an image of the body used for diagnostic purposes. Sonography (or ultrasonography) is used most commonly in obstetrics to see the fetus during pregnancy. A sonographer is trained to discriminate between healthy and diseased areas.
An Associates Sonography Degree is a blend of coursework with hands-on clinical rotations. Many programs will offer the opportunity to specialize in one particular area of the ultrasound profession, such as General (abdomen, obstetrics and gynecology), Vascular or Cardiac. If you would like to become a diagnostic medical sonographer or ultrasound technician, ultimately your goal is to complete and pass the ARDMS exam. While not all states require such certification, the majority of clinics and hospitals prefer candidates to hold this professional credential.
How to Become a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer. Learn how to become a diagnostic medical sonographer. Research the job description, education and licensing requirements to find out how to start a career in medical sonography. Diagnostic medical sonographers must complete 24 continuing education credits every two years to remain certified. To maintain ARDMS credentials, sonographers must earn at least 30 continuing medical education (CME) credits in a 3-year period and pay an annual renewal fee.
An associate's degree in medical sonography requires two years of general education and clinical sonography classes. Sonography coursework covers the various specialties of sonography and pairs in-class work with a clinical practicum to train you in applying your knowledge to real-world situations. Bachelor's in Medical Sonography. Bachelor's-level students are usually required to complete general education requirements and introductory-level healthcare courses during the first two years of the degree program.