The cost of pet sitting will vary depending on who is going to do the job, the number of pets, the number of days needed, as well as other factors. 1  On average, a professional pet sitting service can charge anywhere from $11 to $30 per visit per animal. 1 These visits will last no more than 30 minutes on average. 2  Cats are going to cost less than a dog since they need less attention. 3  For a dog, some pet sitters may need to come out up to 3 to 5 times a day for bathroom breaks and check ups if kept indoors. 4  This can result in a total fee of $45 to $110 per day.
Some pet sitters cut a discount when you reach a certain point. 4 – Time. Sometimes the only thing that pet sitters determine their rates on is how much time that they spend driving to your home and taking care of your pets. There are many ways that pet sitters arrive at their prices. I see the average cost in pet sitting services at about $23 to $25 across the country for about 30 minutes. Although, we are happy to report that Bella’s House & Pet Sitting is a big part of the movement towards companies NOT charging by time and just a flat rate
Shopping for pet sitting: 1  Some sitters offer rates on a sliding scale: the more visits per day, the smaller the daily fee. 2  For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40. 1 Some sitters offer rates on a sliding scale: the more visits per day, the smaller the daily fee. 2  For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40.
1 For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40. 2  To find a sitter, try the member directory at the National Association of Professional Pet Sitters. 1 Some sitters offer rates on a sliding scale: the more visits per day, the smaller the daily fee. 2  For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40.
1 Some sitters charge extra for administering medicine. 2  The fee is about $5 to $10 per pill, ointment application or injection. 3  Most sitters, like Las Vegas Pet Sitting, charge a fee for holiday service, and sometimes for weekend service as well. 4  This is about 25 to 50 percent more than the usual price. 1 Some sitters offer rates on a sliding scale: the more visits per day, the smaller the daily fee. 2  For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40.
1 Pet sitting costs $10-$65 per day, depending on the location, length of the visit and number of sitter's duties. 2  A 15-minute visit, during which the sitter would refill food bowls and tend to the pets' bathroom needs, costs $10-$18. 1 Some sitters offer rates on a sliding scale: the more visits per day, the smaller the daily fee. 2  For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40.
$75 per overnight at your home. The overnight pet and house sitting service includes a pet sitter staying in your home from at least 7:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m. as well as a midday break. If you were to schedule 3 pet sitting visits per day at $19 per visit, you would pay $57 per day. For an additional $31 ($57 + $18 = $75), your critters spend at least 12½ hours with the pet sitter. 1  Availability is limited. 2  There is a $10.00 per visit fee during holiday periods. 
The cost of a pet sitter could decrease the more frequently or longer you are away. Some pet sitters cut a discount when you reach a certain point. 4 – Time. Sometimes the only thing that pet sitters determine their rates on is how much time that they spend driving to your home and taking care of your pets. There are many ways that pet sitters arrive at their prices. I see the average pet sitting cost is at about $23 to $25 across the country for about 30 minutes. Although, we are happy to report that Bella’s House & Pet Sitting is a big part of the movement towards companies NOT charging by time and just a flat rate. 
1 For example, Four on the Floor Pet Sitting located in Michigan charges $15 to $25 per visit. 2  Overnight stays can cost $55 per night. 3  A study that was conducted in 2010 by a U.S. nationwide poll stated that the average pet sitting visit was $18. 1 These visits will last no more than 30 minutes on average. 2  Cats are going to cost less than a dog since they need less attention. 3  For a dog, some pet sitters may need to come out up to 3 to 5 times a day for bathroom breaks and check ups if kept indoors. 4  This can result in a total fee of $45 to $110 per day.