From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Vibrio is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria, possessing a curved-rod shape (comma shape), several species of which can cause foodborne infection, usually associated with eating undercooked seafood. Several species of Vibrio are pathogens. Most disease-causing strains are associated with gastroenteritis, but can also infect open wounds and cause septicemia. They can be carried by numerous marine animals, such as crabs or prawns, and have been known to cause fatal infections in humans during exposure.
Food poisoning from bacteria found in raw milk, poultry and shellfish on the rise. Workers unload chickens from a container at a wholesale market in Shanghai, China, April 3, 2013. Cases of Campylobacter, which can thrive in raw milk and poultry, grew by 14 percent over the last five years, a government study found. Health officials said it's not clear why Campylobacter cases have increased, or which food or foods was the source of most of the added illnesses.
NEW YORK A bacteria found in raw milk and poultry and another found in shellfish has been linked to higher rates of food poisonings. Cases of Campylobacter, which can thrive in raw milk and poultry, grew by 14 percent over the last five years, a government study found. Health officials said it's not clear why Campylobacter cases have increased, or which food or foods was the source of most of the added illnesses.
Eating shellfish has been related to a number of diseases, including those caused by bacteria, viruses including hepatitis A and Norwalk agent, and those caused by toxins. Symptoms: Traditional methods of cooking seafood's, such as steaming clams only until they open, may be insufficient to kill all bacteria and viruses in them. Shellfish infections caused by toxins are different. Shellfish containing toxins may look and taste normal, and usual cooking methods do not affect the toxin.
Examples of these include moray eels, sea bass, piranhas and sharks. Shellfish are found in freshwater as well as sea water and include shrimps, prawns, oysters, cockles, clams and mussels. They are also known as ‘filter feeding molluscs’ which means that they use a filter process as they feed upon algae and plankton within the surrounding water. In this case, the shellfish contain a type of toxin called ‘brevetoxins’which cause symptoms very similar to those of paralytic poisoning or ciguatera poisoning. Symptoms of neurotoxic poisoning include: 1  Numbness/tingling in the mouth, arms and legs.
Associated foods: Any edible, aquatic invertebrate with a shell such as clams, mussels, scallops and oysters. Prevention: Shellfish foodborne infections caused by bacteria and viruses can be prevented by cooking seafood's thoroughly, storing them properly, and protecting them from contamination after cooking. Traditional methods of cooking seafood's, such as steaming clams only until they open, may be insufficient to kill all bacteria and viruses in them. Shellfish infections caused by toxins are different. Shellfish containing toxins may look and taste normal, and usual cooking methods do not affect the toxin.
What it is: Eating shellfish has been related to a number of diseases, including those caused by bacteria, viruses including hepatitis A and Norwalk agent, and those caused by toxins. Symptoms: Persons who eat raw or undercooked shellfish harvested from sewage contaminated waters may get diarrhea. Traditional methods of cooking seafood's, such as steaming clams only until they open, may be insufficient to kill all bacteria and viruses in them. Shellfish infections caused by toxins are different. Shellfish containing toxins may look and taste normal, and usual cooking methods do not affect the toxin.
The study had another piece of bad news: there were jumps in illness caused by a group of bacteria called Vibrio, which are associated with shellfish. There were fewer than 200 Vibrio cases reported last year, but that's a 43 percent increase from about five years ago. Cases of Campylobacter, which can thrive in raw milk and poultry, grew by 14 percent over the last five years, a government study found. Health officials said it's not clear why Campylobacter cases have increased, or which food or foods was the source of most of the added illnesses.
Foodborne illness is caused by eating or drinking food that contains disease causing agents. The most common causes of foodborne diseases are bacteria, viruses, and parasites. Foods containing toxic chemicals can cause foodborne diseases as well. Typically, our immune system fights off germs to prevent illness. 
Pathogenic bacteria are defined as those bacteria that that may cause illness in humans. Some pathogenic bacteria are transmitted to humans via food. Food-borne pathogenic bacteria are few among the many different types of seafood bacteria, which are causing no harm to humans. Many microorganisms are even beneficial being used in the production of food and drinks. Others are able to spoil food.