If you have two accounts on your credit report, a five-year old credit card and a six-month old card your average length of account history drops to six months if you close the oldest card. If you close a zero balance card and keep open a maxed-out card you may see your credit score plummet. Credit scores range from a 850 to 300 so a 30 percent drop on an 850 score could mean your score drops by a few hundred points.
, Fees, interest charges still possible on closed credit card account, Canceling a card can hurt your credit score. If you're confused, you're not alone. This kind of thing happens -- and it's perfectly legal. New regulations do nothing to help in this situation. 
1. Understand how closing a credit card affects your credit. Closing your credit card account can have a negative effect on your FICO score in two ways. First, it lowers your total available credit, which can increase your credit utilization ratio. This ratio heavily influences the 30% of your credit score that’s determined by how much you owe. If you’re thinking about canceling one of your credit cards, don’t call the credit card company just yet. Acting too rashly can damage your credit score and make it difficult to stay organized when switching to a new card. Take these five Nerd tips into consideration before cutting up your card.
So, closing a credit card account could have an immediate negative impact on your credit score if the card has a large credit limit and you continue to charge the same total amounts as before. There are ways to offset this utilization rate effect. The question is if closing accounts will hurt your credit score.Here are the four ways that canceling credit cards can affect your credit score over the short term and long term. By how much depends on different factors.Before ditching your credit card, check your credit score for free at myBankrate.
When the bank closes an account, it reflects negatively on your credit report; the bureaus assume the bank had a reason to close it. But when you close an account, your credit score is not affected. Here’s what I’d do: First, call the credit card company and see if you can’t keep the account open. If you have had the account longer than any other card, then your credit score could take a bigger hit when the bank closes the account. It will be better if you’ve had other cards for at least five years or longer.
Having a zero balance on a credit card lowers your overall credit utilization, but when you close that card the bureaus only take into account the balances you have on your active card. Revolving credit balances account for about 30 percent of your overall score. If you close a zero balance card and keep open a maxed-out card you may see your credit score plummet. Credit scores range from a 850 to 300 so a 30 percent drop on an 850 score could mean your score drops by a few hundred points.
How long have you had that particular card open relative to your other accounts? If you have had the account longer than any other card, then your credit score could take a bigger hit when the bank closes the account. It will be better if you’ve had other cards for at least five years or longer.
You want to cancel your credit card. Before you pick up your scissors, know this: Canceling a credit card the right way involves more than simply snipping it in two. It requires you to follow specific steps to close the credit card account for good with the least damage to your credit score. 
For the highest credit score possible, it's best to keep your utilization rate low, less than 20 percent. Here's how closing a credit card can increase your utilization rate and lower your credit score. Say you have three credit cards with credit lines of $1,000 each, or $3,000 in total. The question is if closing accounts will hurt your credit score.Here are the four ways that canceling credit cards can affect your credit score over the short term and long term. By how much depends on different factors.Before ditching your credit card, check your credit score for free at myBankrate.
1 While closing a credit card won't impact your average age of accounts right away, as closed accounts remain on your report for seven to ten years, if you close a card that is significantly older than your other cards, it could lower your average age of accounts when it finally falls off your report. Simply put, closing your cards definitely has the potential to hurt your credit health. Here's why: 1  May increase your credit card utilization rate. 2  Your credit card utilization rate is the ratio of your credit card debt to your total credit card limits.