DNA profiling (also called DNA fingerprinting, DNA testing, or DNA typing) is a forensic technique used to identify individuals by characteristics of their DNA. 
Guide. DNA fingerprinting is a test to identify and evaluate the genetic information-called DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid)-in a person's cells. Only a small sample of cells is needed for DNA fingerprinting. A drop of blood or the root of a hair contains enough DNA for testing. Semen, hair, or skin scrapings are often used in criminal investigations.
DNA fingerprinting. n. A method used to identify multilocus DNA banding patterns that are specific to an individual by exposing a sample of the person's DNA to molecular probes and various analytical techniques such as Southern blot analysis. DNA fingerprinting is often used to provide evidence in criminal law cases. 
A DNA fingerprint is the unique identification in a person's DNA  sequence. This fingerprint so to speak can be used in cases such  as criminal cases to identify a suspect … of a crime. Split and merge into it. Answer by Kconstas. Confidence votes 18. DNA fingerprinting (aka DNA profiling) is a scientific procedure used to determine identity or parentage using DNA. Variable Number Tandem Repeats (VNTR) are found in the nucleotides of a DNA strand.
DNA Fingerprinting is a procedure whereby the genetic information, called DNA, in a person's cells is analysed and identified. The word fingerprinting is used because, just like a fingerprint, no two person's genetic code is exactly the same. This makes DNA fingerprinting a very useful tool for our modern society. 
A person's DNA profile is unique. DNA fingerprinting is a type of identification based on an individuals DNA profile. DNA found on items like cigarette butts can be used to produce a fingerprint.. DNA fingerprinting was first described by English geneticist Alec Jeffreys.
A DNA fingerprint is the same thing as DNA testing, DNA typing, DNA profiling, DNA analysis and genetic fingerprinting. It refers to identification of an individual based on his or her DNA profile. DNA fingerprinting is a type of identification based on an individuals DNA profile. DNA found on items like cigarette butts can be used to produce a fingerprint.. DNA fingerprinting was first described by English geneticist Alec Jeffreys.
DNA Fingerprinting. DNA fingerprinting is a laboratory technique used to establish a link between biological evidence and a suspect in a criminal investigation. A DNA sample taken from a crime scene is compared with a DNA sample from a suspect. If the two DNA profiles are a match, then the evidence came from that suspect