If you have baby hamsters on your hands — whether you bought them or bred them — taking care of them can be a lot of work. Even if the babies are with their mother, you must watch them carefully to make sure she's caring for them properly and not hurting them. Hamsters reach sexual maturity as young as 6 weeks old, though it is not advisable to let them mate at this age. A female should be at least 8 - 10 weeks old before mating, and males 10 -12 weeks old. Once a hamster reaches 12 months of age, it should no longer be bred, as health risks skyrocket.
Feeding Baby Syrian Hamsters For a Syrian hamster or other full-sized species of hamster, increase the amount of milk offered. Start with 1 milliliter 12 times a day around the clock until the hamster pups are 2 weeks old. After 2 weeks, feed them 2 milliliters 8 times a day. Feeding Baby Hamsters. Baby hamsters are usually well cared for by their mothers, but you can offer a few foods to help the hamster pups along. Baby hamsters will likely benefit from wheat germ cereal early in their development, so sprinkle a little close to the nest.
Wash and peel all vegetables thoroughly before feeding to a baby hamster. If any Pesticides are still present on the vegetables these can upset a baby hamster’s tummy. You can feed most vegetables to baby hamsters including carrots, cucumber etc: but no green leafy vegetables. Green leafy vegetables play no part in a hamster’s diet young or old, and certainly no lettuce. Once a baby hamster has been weaned you can feed them the same as you would an adult hamster. His diet plays a big part in his well being, not only now but also as he grows. A good commercially packed complete hamster food is a good base for the diet
Making the world better, one answer at a time. From my personal experience-I have 6 hamster pups born 16 days ago: At 14 days old, a baby hamster will wander out of its nest and begin exploring the cage and trying solid foods. Their eyes will still be closed but will begin to open within the next couple of days. 
What do you feed baby a hamster? Once a baby hamster has been weaned you can feed them the same as you would an adult hamster. His diet plays a big part in his well being, not only now but also as he grows. A good commercially packed complete hamster food is a good base for the diet.
This doesn’t mean that the hamsters won’t eat solid foods. Hamster pups start using their teeth at about 5 days old on smaller seeds. If you provide wheat germ by sprinkling it close to the nest, small hamster pups will lick at it. During the third week you should see hamster pups eating from the bowl of solid foods. Feeding Baby Hamsters. Baby hamsters are usually well cared for by their mothers, but you can offer a few foods to help the hamster pups along. Baby hamsters will likely benefit from wheat germ cereal early in their development, so sprinkle a little close to the nest.
1 These foods will hydrate the babies. 2  A hamsters cage needs to be at least 360 sq in. 3  It must be even bigger for a nursing mom and litter. 4  If you feel your hamster gave birth in a cage that was too small, then put them into a new cage after 2 weeks. Change your hamster's diet. Pregnant hamsters need a diet high in protein and fat. Aim for a hamster food that contains 18 to 20 percent protein and seven to nine percent fat. You may also want to provide your mother hamster with milky food to provide additional calcium and promote lactation.
I have compiled solid food charts to help you have an idea of what foods are safe, healthy and nutritious for your baby as you both begin the journey into solid foods. Remember, many pediatricians are recommending that babies start solids at 6 months of age. 