The lentil (Lens culinaris) is an edible pulse. It is a bushy annual plant of the legume family, known for its lens-shaped seeds. It is about 40 cm (16 in) tall, and the seeds grow in pods, usually with two seeds in each. Red (or pink) lentils contain a lower concentration of fiber than green lentils (11% versus 31%). The low levels of readily digestible starch (5%), and high levels of slowly digested starch (30%), make lentils of potential value to people with diabetes.
Lentils are legumes, related to beans and peanuts, and they look a lot like dried split peas in appearance, although they are not as sweet. Botanists believe they originated in the Near East and were likely one of the first domesticated crops there. This is important given their nutritious nature. Lentils are a type of legume. Chefs favor lentils because they do not have a strong flavor. Lentils are the main ingredient in dal, an Indian food. Lentils can be used as a meat substitute in vegan versions of meat dishes like lentil loaf. Lentils are legumes and are related to beans and peanuts
Lentils. When I am giving lectures I love to talk about lentils. Legumes are one of my favorite ingredients and lentils are one of my favorite legumes. They keep well in the cupboard, cook quickly and there are dozens of ways to use them-in soups, salads, stews, chili or simply as a side dish. Lentils, like peas, garbanzos and peanuts, are legumes. You can think of them as a starch since they are mostly carbohydrate and protein with essentially no fat. They best part is that they contain tons of fiber with a half cup of cooked lentils coming in at around 8 grams. The small dark green lentil is also known as the French lentil. You might find them labeled Puy lentils or by the French term lentilles vertes du Puy.. They have a thin shell and a stronger pea-like flavor. These are slightly tough and take longer to cook.
Lentils are grouped with beans and peas as part of the legume family because, like all legumes, they grow in pods. Lentils are high in protein and fiber and low in fat, which makes them a healthy substitute for meat. They're also packed with folate, iron, phosphorus, potassium and fiber. 
Lentil colors range from yellow to red-orange to green, brown and black. Lentils also vary in size, and are sold in many forms, with or without the skins, whole or split. Red (or pink) lentils contain a lower concentration of fiber than green lentils (11% versus 31%). The low levels of readily digestible starch (5%), and high levels of slowly digested starch (30%), make lentils of potential value to people with diabetes.
Look for them in Indian markets. continental lentil. dal = dhaal = dhal = dhall = daal Notes: Dal is the Indian term for peas, beans, or lentils that have been split and often skinned, but the name is sometimes used for all lentils, peas, or beans, or to cooked dishes made with them. 
Compared to other types of dried beans, lentils are relatively quick and easy to prepare. They readily absorb a variety of wonderful flavors from other foods and seasonings, are high in nutritional value and are available throughout the year. Lentils are legumes along with other types of beans. They grow in pods that contain either one or two lentil seeds that are round, oval or heart-shaped disks and are oftentimes smaller than the tip of a pencil eraser.
2. Egyptian or red lentils have no seed coat and are smaller and red. 3. Yellow lentils (also small, without the seed coat and yellow). The same lentil seed (or dal as called in India) can be used three ways-whole, split with the outer layer, split without the outer layer. If you soak the split seed with outer layer, the outer peel comes off easily
Lentils are also commonly used in Ethiopia in a stew-like dish called kik, or kik wot, one of the dishes people eat with Ethiopia's national food, injera flat bread. Yellow lentils are used to make a non-spicy stew, which is one of the first solid foods Ethiopian women feed their babies. Red (or pink) lentils contain a lower concentration of fiber than green lentils (11% versus 31%). The low levels of readily digestible starch (5%), and high levels of slowly digested starch (30%), make lentils of potential value to people with diabetes.