Even within retailers, those that measure costs by spend type find that the processing costs for indirect spend is much higher than with direct spend. One company found that although its average cost was below $2.00 per invoice, its processing cost range was between $1.25 and $25.00 per invoice. Indirect spend is often non-PO based and the in-voices are more complicated. © 2009 Financial Operations Networks LLC 10 Cost to process an invoice—Shared Services vs. Centralized Accounts Payable Eighty-five percent of participants in the study have a centralized AP operation or a shared services center.
Accounts Payable Processor Salary. (United States). Median pay for Accounts Payable Processors in the United States is around $15.30 per hour. Residence is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience.
Accounts Payable Processors see a median salary of $36K after reaching one to two decades on the job. Accounts Payable Processors who surpass 20 years on the job report pay that isn't as high as one would expect; the median compensation for this crowd sits around $37K. (United States). Median pay for Accounts Payable Processors in the United States is around $15.30 per hour. Residence is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience.
The average salary for process technology jobs is $68,000. Average process technology salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term process technology anywhere in the job listing.
Best practices suggest that top performing A/P Departments process 3,339 PO invoices per A/P staffer per month. Total processing time per vendor invoice in these high performing units should average less than 3 days. This compares to the 6 days required to process an invoice in the average company. Even with that consistency, cost studies show a wide range of operating results. One benchmarking study calculated the cost to process a vendor payment ranging from $5 to $26 an invoice, while another study sited the cost ranging from $4 to $14 an invoice.
Average The Invoice Processing salaries for job postings nationwide are 39% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
However, for the average organization, the cost to process an invoice is about $7.00. While the cost of invoice processing varies from company to company, there is one undeniable truth: Paper invoices and manual processing impedes on the efficiency of your accounts payable operations. As more and more organizations realize the cost savings and process improvements that come with accounts payable automation, we will continue to see these statistics shrink. In short – there is no exact cost of processing an invoice.
Manual accounts payable invoice processing for most organizations is inefficient, non-strategic, costly, and challenging. Not only is it error prone, the risks for organizations relying on paper based processes can be significant: 1  The average cost of processing an invoice is between $6-$15 for most organizations. 2  The average time to process an invoice is over 16 days. 3  83% of invoices are still paper based or paper dependent.
Invoice Clerk Salary. (United States). The average wage for an Invoice Clerk is $13.36 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career.
average account payable invoice processing associate salaries for job postings in houston tx are 13 % higher than average account payable invoice processing associate salaries for job postings nationwide 