Petra City Map. Petra which means stone in Greek is the most spectacular ancient city of Jordan. Petra is also known as a rose-red city. It is located just outside the town of Wadi Mousa in southern Jordan. Petra, the famous archaeological site draws huge number of tourists every year.
Where is Petra. The ancient city of Petra is in the Hashamite Kingdom of Jordan – the country of Jordan – in the Middle East. Jordan is bordered by Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq and to the west Jordan shares a border with Israel. Petra is in the southwest corner of Jordan about 80-100km east of the Israeli border and the Dead Sea which the two countries share. Petra is in the Jordanian region or governorate of Ma’an which lies east of Amman, Jordan’s capital city. Petra is situated on the side of Mount Hor which forms part of the eastern side of Wadi Araba a valley between the Gulf of Aqaba and the Dead Sea.
Welcome to the Petra google satellite map! This place is situated in Ioannina, Ipiros, Greece, its geographical coordinates are 39° 46' 19 North, 21° 1' 35. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Petra. pétra East and its original name (with diacritics) is Petra. Pétra See petra photos and images from satellite, below explore the aerial photographs Of petra In. Greece petra hotels map is available on the target page linked. above
The rock-carved rose-red city of Petra is full of mysterious charm, it was designed to strike wonder into all who entered it. Petra is considered the most famous and gorgeous site in Jordan located about 262 km south of Amman and 133 km north of Aqaba. It is the legacy of the Nabataeans, an industrious Arab people who settled in southern Jordan more than 2000 years ago. Petra is always breathtaking, and never to be forgotten. It flourished for over 400 years around the time of Rome and Christ (pbuh), until it was occupied by the Roman legions of the Emperor Trajan in 106 AD.
Petra (Arabic: البترا, Al-Batrāʾ; Ancient Greek: πέτρα) is a historical and archaeological city in the southern Jordanian governorate of Ma'an that is famous for its rock-cut architecture and water conduit system. Another name for Petra is the Rose City due to the color of the stone out of which it is carved. Established possibly as early as 312 BC as the capital city of the Nabataeans, it is a symbol of Jordan, as well as Jordan's most-visited tourist attraction. In ancient times, Petra might have been approached from the south on a track leading across the plain of Petra, around Jabal Haroun (Aaron's Mountain), where the Tomb of Aaron, said to be the burial-place of Aaron, brother of Moses, is located.
In 1985, the Petra Archaeological Park was declared a UNESCO World Heritage site, and in 2007 it was named one of the new seven wonders of the world. Indiana Jones Location. Several scenes from the Hollywood blockbuster Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade were filmed in Petra. 
Welcome to the Petra google satellite map! This place is situated in Ioannina, Ipiros, Greece, its geographical coordinates are 39° 46' 19 North, 21° 1' 35. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Petra. Pétra See petra photos and images from satellite, below explore the aerial photographs Of petra In. greece East and its original name (with diacritics) is Petra. Pétra See petra photos and images from satellite, below explore the aerial photographs Of petra In. Greece petra hotels map is available on the target page linked. above
It lies on the slope of Jebel al-Madhbah (identified by some as the biblical Mount Hor) in a basin among the mountains which form the eastern flank of Arabah (Wadi Araba), the large valley running from the Dead Sea to the Gulf of Aqaba. Petra has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1985. In ancient times, Petra might have been approached from the south on a track leading across the plain of Petra, around Jabal Haroun (Aaron's Mountain), where the Tomb of Aaron, said to be the burial-place of Aaron, brother of Moses, is located.