Avalon is located on Santa Catalina Island, approximately 22 miles (35 km) south-by-southwest of the Los Angeles Harbor breakwater. It is the only incorporated city to be located on one of the eight Channel Islands of California. Due to its location on Catalina Island, it is the southern-most city in Los Angeles County. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 2.9 sq mi (8 km 2) on land and 58,975 sq ft (5,479 m 2) on water.
Snorkeling. Two Harbors at the Isthmus of Santa Catalina Island is ideally located to offer easy access to some of the world’s best snorkeling. Voted “World’s Healthiest Marine Environment” by Scuba Diving Magazine, the water is clear and clean, with visibility ranging from 40-100 feet. Two Harbors at the Isthmus of Santa Catalina Island is ideally located to offer easy access to some of the world’s best scuba div
Santa Catalina Island, often called Catalina Island, or just Catalina, is a rocky island off the coast of the U.S. state of California in the Gulf of Santa Catalina. The island is 22 miles (35 km) long and 8 miles (13 km) across at its greatest width. The island is located about 22 miles (35 km) south-southwest of Los Angeles, California. The highest point on the island is 2,097 feet (639 m) Mt. Orizaba.
From adventure to luxury, Catalina Island has it all. Visit the picturesque town of Avalon or the rustic village of Two Harbors. Avalon is filled with activities on land and sea. Two Harbors is a spectacular remote location with campgrounds and beautiful beaches. Catalina Island, a wonderful day or overnight getaway. Catalina Express takes you to Catalina Island in just an hour with year round service and up to 30 daily departures. Boats depart ports in Long Beach, San Pedro and Dana Point. Catalina is just 22 miles off the coast of Southern California
Santa Catalina Island is located 22 miles south southwest of Los Angeles and is the southernmost island of the Channel Islands of California. Santa Catalina Island is made up of two towns, the incorporated town of Avalon to the east end and unincorporated town Two Harbors to the west end. To get to Santa Catalina Island, you can take a passenger ferry from Newport Beach, Dana Point Long Beach or San Pedro, CA. You could also fly in via helicopter, private plane or sail over on a private boat. Catalina Island’s Airport in the Sky, sits on a mountaintop, 1,602 feet above sea level.
A world away… in about an hour. Catalina Express takes you to Catalina Island in just an hour with year round service and up to 30 daily departures. Boats depart ports in Long Beach, San Pedro and Dana Point. Catalina is just 22 miles off the coast of Southern California
CATALINA ISLAND. Catalina Island is located 22 miles off the coast of Southern California. With transportation options available from five mainland ports in Southern California, and the ride anywhere from 15 to 90 minutes, Catalina is a popular choice for vacationers from near and afar. Everything here is within walking distance, but taxis, trolleys, bicycle and golf cart rentals are also available. We are located a short 10 minute walk from the boat terminal, and nestled at the corner of Crescent and Sumner Avenue surrounded by the restaurants, shops and local attractions of Catalina Island.
Snug Harbor Inn is located on the beachfront in the town of Avalon-home to 85% of the island’s population. Everything here is within walking distance, but taxis, trolleys, bicycle and golf cart rentals are also available. We are located a short 10 minute walk from the boat terminal, and nestled at the corner of Crescent and Sumner Avenue surrounded by the restaurants, shops and local attractions of Catalina Island.
Avalon is the only incorporated city on Santa Catalina Island of the California Channel Islands, and the southernmost city in Los Angeles County. The population was 3,728 at the 2010 census. Avalon was first settled in pre-modern times by members of the Gabrielino/Tongva tribe. Due to its location on Catalina Island, it is the southern-most city in Los Angeles County. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 2.9 sq mi (8 km 2) on land and 58,975 sq ft (5,479 m 2) on water.