Review your contingency fee contract. See if the agreement has any specific terms limiting revocation. Most contingency agreements will require you to compensate your attorney for any time already spent on the case, but you are still free to fire your attorney and rescind the contingency fee contract. Generally, a grantor may revoke a contingency fee contract and a standard power of attorney at anytime. These types of agreements allow for immediate and direct revocation by providing notice to the affected parties.
A statement as to how disbursements and costs will affect the contingency fee and the client’s recovery. A statement as to what extent, if any, the client could be required to pay any compensation to the attorney for related matters that arise out of their relationship not covered by their contingency fee agreement. This may include any amounts collected for the client by the attorney. The first two agreements forms are designed for use in non-contingent fee arrangements. They cover (1) litigation on an hourly basis, and (2) non-litigation on an hourly basis. The third form is for a contingency fee matter.
You should always enter into a written fee agreement with your lawyer. Often called retainer agreements or representation agreements, these contracts set out the terms of the lawyer-client relationship. Some lawyers use formal contracts running many pages in length; others use a simple letter outlining the agreement. If the lawyer will require you to pay a deposit in advance (often called a retainer), the agreement should include the amount of the retainer. Contingency fee. In certain kinds of cases, such as personal injury cases, a lawyer waits until the case is over, then takes a percentage of the amount the client wins.
Firing your attorney by revoking your contingency fee contract and power of attorney agreement can be a huge detriment to your case depending on your timing and circumstances. Generally, a grantor may revoke a contingency fee contract and a standard power of attorney at anytime. These types of agreements allow for immediate and direct revocation by providing notice to the affected parties.
ATTORNEY/CLIENT CONTINGENT FEE RETAINER AGREEMENT This document, agreement or retainer agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”) is the written fee contract that California law requires lawyers to have with their clients. 
J. Gardner Hodder and Neil Sacks. In Canada a contingency fee is an agreement whereby the client pays no fees unless and until there is recovery in the lawsuit. Such fees are usually based on a percentage-often 20% to 45% of the proceeds. While all contingency fee agreements are subject, ultimately, to a review by the courts, the fact that you signed an agreement will be taken as evidence of your intentions about fees. What you sign in your lawyer's office makes a big difference.
It is important for the agreement to contain a provision setting out when and how the client or the lawyer may terminate the contingency fee agreement and how the lawyer's fee is to be determined in the event that the agreement is terminated. While all contingency fee agreements are subject, ultimately, to a review by the courts, the fact that you signed an agreement will be taken as evidence of your intentions about fees. What you sign in your lawyer's office makes a big difference.
I hired a lawyer on a contingency-based contract who appears to have dropped the ball in my case. by FreeAdvice staff. Whether your current lawyer can hold you to the terms of the contingency agreement will depend on the laws of your state, as well as your particular situation. Many states follow the Model Rules of Professional Conduct. 
Sample Retainer and Contingency Agreement for an Injury Case. Download article as a PDF. Available in PDF | MS Word. When you have found an attorney you like, he or she will ask you to sign a fee agreement. Most personal injury cases are taken on a contingency fee basis, meaning that if you recover any money from the person that injured you, the attorney will receive a percentage of that recovery as payment for his services. 
Type of Agreement. When assessing whether to terminate an attorney client contract you should pay close attention to whether your contract is based on a contingent agreement or an hourly billing agreement. Hourly billing contracts state that the lawyer is entitled to a certain rate for every hour he works on your case. This lien may deter a new lawyer from accepting your case. When attempting to terminate an attorney client agreement based on a contingency, you should contact your new attorney to see if she can negotiate an amicable case transfer.