Average Supply Chain Analyst salaries for job postings nationwide are 42% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Average Procurement Analyst Salaries. The average salary for procurement analyst jobs is $68,000. Average procurement analyst salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term procurement analyst anywhere in the job listing. 
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Supply Chain Analyst in the United States. Job Description for Supply Chain Analyst. Gathers data and conducts analysis with the goal of improving the organization's supply chain operations. Identifies underperforming areas in the supply chain and may suggest improvements or resolutions to problems.
stryker supply chain analyst salary stryker supply chain analyst average salary is $ 79268 median salary is $ 79268 with a salary range from $ 79268 to $ 79268 stryker supply chain analyst salaries are collected from government agencies and companies each salary is associated with a real job position stryker supply chain analyst salary is full time annual starting salary intern contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee compensation depends on work experience job location bonus benefits and other factors
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Supply Chain Analyst in the United States is $71,533 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Supply Chain Analyst in the United States are expected to make less than $71,533. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $71,533. 1  Salary. Job Description for Supply Chain Analyst. Gathers data and conducts analysis with the goal of improving the organization's supply chain operations. Identifies underperforming areas in the supply chain and may suggest improvements or resolutions to problems.
Supply Chain Analyst Salary. (Canada). The average pay for a Supply Chain Analyst is C$52,462 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. Pay for this job rises steadily for more experienced workers, but goes down noticeably for the few employees with more than 20 years' experience
We have information on several supply chain analyst jobs each with different pay ranges. Please select a specific supply chain analyst job from the list below or search supply chain analyst salaries. 
Supply Chain Analyst Salary. (United States). The national average salary for Supply Chain Analysts is $56K annually; Intel Corporation pays the most in this field, though, offering a median salary of $97K. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Supply Chain Analysts with a lot of experience do not necessarily enjoy more money. Those in the early stages of their career can expect to make around $55K; however, individuals with five to 10 years of experience bring in $63K on average — a distinctly larger sum. Supply Chain Analysts bring in $67K after working for 10 to 20 years