Most eggs used in baking are at room temperature. A quick way to warm eggs to room temperature is to place them in warm water for 10 - 15 minutes, or else leave them out for 30-60 minutes. . 
I usually bake with room temperature eggs because they seem to disperse much better through batters when they aren’t fresh out of the fridge. Typically if the recipe calls for room temperature butter, it’s a good idea to use room temperature eggs. I ALWAYS try to have my baking ingredients at room temperature, especially the eggs & butter (or margarine). It makes such a difference when mixing the dough or batter. I try to plan ahead of time, I do my baking in the morning before work or in the evening when I get home.
An Easy Method for Quickly Warming Eggs. To bring cold eggs up to room temperature, all we do is put them in a bowl and cover them with warm tap water. We do this first thing when we walk into the kitchen and the eggs are at a perfect temperature by the time we finish gathering the rest of the ingredients. Why Room Temperature Eggs Are Better. Eggs warmed to room temperature will mix more easily into a rich dough or batter and also help increase volume. Some recipes call for it specifically, but we've gotten in the habit of using room-temperature eggs in most of our baking.
To warm up just your egg whites or egg yolks, separate the eggs when cold and place the whites and yolks in small bowls. Place these bowls into slightly larger bowls full of warm water and allow them to sit for 5-10 minutes (or simply let them sit, covered, at room temperature for 30-60 minutes before using). Just 5 or 10 minutes in a bowl full of warm water – hot water may cause the egg shells to crack – will take the chill off of your eggs. Recipes that call for egg whites alone often call for them to be at room temperature. Eggs are, however, much easier to separate when they are cold
How to bring eggs to room temperature. February 24, 2011 in Baking, How-To's and Tips 13 Comments. Many recipes call for room temperature or softened butter because it is easier to incorporate into a cake batter or cookie dough than rock hard, cold butter is. Just 5 or 10 minutes in a bowl full of warm water – hot water may cause the egg shells to crack – will take the chill off of your eggs. Recipes that call for egg whites alone often call for them to be at room temperature. Eggs are, however, much easier to separate when they are cold
When & Why to Use Room Temperature Eggs. Some recipes specify that the eggs or egg whites be at room temperature when added. However, for recipes that don’t specify room temperature eggs, use eggs straight from the refrigerator. In the case of cheesecakes and other batters with a high fat content, adding cold eggs could re-harden the fat, making the batter appear curdled or lumpy, possibly affecting the texture of the baked product.
Baking recipes often call for eggs and butter to be at room temperature, but people often ignore this step. Find out why room temperature ingredients really do make a difference. At room temperature, eggs, butter, and milk bond and form an emulsion that traps air. During baking, the air expands, producing light, airy, evenly baked treats. Batters made with room temperature ingredients are smooth and evenly incorporated. 
To bring eggs to room temperature quickly, soak them in a bowl of warm water for 10-15 minutes. Especially when you’re making cakes and baked goods that rely on a lot of eggs, using room temperature eggs can make a big difference in the final texture. The egg yolks will be easier to separate from the egg whites with less incidence of egg yolk breakage or rupture. A tiny bit of egg yolk in egg white will prevent the egg white from getting stiff .during the beating process and therefore wasted.
So lets have a little chit-chat about eggs – specifically room temperature eggs. There are lot of recipes that specify room temperature eggs in their ingredients list and most people tell me that they don’t ever remember to take their eggs out beforehand to warm up. Here’s the truth – most recipes won’t be affected much by cold eggs. So what I do is first pull the eggs I need and put them in a bowl with warm to hot tap water. The temperature of the water depends on how many eggs I need warmed up. If it’s only one egg, I’ll use warm-to-the-touch water.