France. Benghazi is a city/town with a large population in the state/region of Banghāzī, Libya which is located in the continent/region of Africa. Cities, towns and places near Benghazi include Bengasi, Al `Urubah, Banghazi and Bengazi. The closest major cities include Mişrātah, Tarhunah, Tripoli and Athens. Location. Benghazi is a city/town with a large population in the state/region of Banghāzī, Libya which is located in the continent/region of Africa.
With an area of almost 1.8 million square kilometres (700,000 sq mi), Libya is the fourth largest country in Africa, and is the 17th largest country in the world. Libya has the 10th-largest proven oil reserves of any country in the world. The largest city and capital, Tripoli, is located in western Libya and contains over one million of Libya's six million people. The other large city is Benghazi, which is located in eastern Libya
Geography and Climate of Libya. Libya (map) is located in the northern part of Africa and it has 1,100 miles (1,770 km) of coastline along the Mediterranean Sea. Most of the country is barren as portions of its borders include the Sahara Desert.
Libya (Arabic: ليبيا ‎ Lībyā) is a country in the Maghreb region of North Africa bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast, Chad and Niger to the south, and Algeria and Tunisia to the west. The three traditional parts of the country are Tripolitania, Fezzan and Cyrenaica. Libya has the 10th-largest proven oil reserves of any country in the world. The largest city and capital, Tripoli, is located in western Libya and contains over one million of Libya's six million people.
Geography. Libya is found in the Maghreb region of North Africa. It is bordered by the Mediterranean to the north, Algeria & Tunisia to the west, Niger and Chad to the south, Egypt to the east, and Sudan to the south east. Libya is the 4th largest nation in Africa, and the 17th in the world. Libya is an African nation situated in North Africa, along the Mediterranean Sea. Libya shares borders with Egypt, Sudan, Chad, Niger, Algeria, and Tunisia. The capital and largest city in Libya is Tripoli.
In North Africa. Libya is bordered by Algeria and Tunisia to the west, Niger and Chad to the south, Sudan on the south-west and Egypt to the east. The north of Libya is border … ed by the Mediterranean Sea. 
Lowest Point: Sabkhat Ghuzayyil at -154 feet (-47 m). Libya, officially called the Great Socialist People's Libya Arab Jamahiriya, is a large country located in northern Africa along the Mediterranean Sea. It is the fourth largest country in Africa by area and its capital and largest city is Tripoli. Libya (map) is located in the northern part of Africa and it has 1,100 miles (1,770 km) of coastline along the Mediterranean Sea. Most of the country is barren as portions of its borders include the Sahara Desert.
Libya is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Africa. Countries near Libya include Malta, Tunisia, Chad and Egypt. Its biggest cities and towns include Tripoli, Benghazi, Mişrātah and Tarhunah. 