1 The vagus nerve does not participate in these cranial ganglia as most of its parasympathetic fibers are destined for a broad array of ganglia on or near thoracic viscera (esophagus, trachea, heart, lungs) and abdominal viscera (stomach, pancreas, liver, kidneys). Nerve fibres of the parasympathetic nervous system arise from the central nervous system. Specific nerves include several cranial nerves, specifically the oculomotor nerve, facial nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, and vagus nerve. Three spinal nerves in the sacrum (S2-4) also act as parasympathetic nerves
The parasympathetic nervous system (usually abbreviated PSNS, not PNS, to avoid confusion with the peripheral nervous system [PNS]) is one of the two divisions of the autonomic nervous system, the other being the sympathetic nervous system. Nerve fibres of the parasympathetic nervous system arise from the central nervous system. Specific nerves include several cranial nerves, specifically the oculomotor nerve, facial nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, and vagus nerve. Three spinal nerves in the sacrum (S2-4) also act as parasympathetic nerves
As in the sympathetic nervous system, efferent parasympathetic nerve signals are carried from the central nervous system to their targets by a system of two neurons. The first neuron in this pathway is referred to as the preganglionic or presynaptic neuron. Nerve fibres of the parasympathetic nervous system arise from the central nervous system. Specific nerves include several cranial nerves, specifically the oculomotor nerve, facial nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, and vagus nerve. Three spinal nerves in the sacrum (S2-4) also act as parasympathetic nerves
The comparative structures of the sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions are listed in tables 9.2 and 9.3. It should be noted that most parasympathetic fibers do not travel within spinal nerves, as do sympathetic fibers. As a result, cutaneous effectors (blood vessels, sweat glands, and arrector pili muscles) and blood vessels in skeletal muscles receive sympathetic but not parasympathetic innervation. The oculomotor nerve contains somatic motor and parasympathetic fibers that originate in the oculomotor nuclei of the midbrain. These parasympathetic fibers synapse in the ciliary ganglion, whose postganglionic fibers innervate the ciliary muscle and constrictor fibers in the iris of the eye.
1. Acetylcholine is the most common. Neurons that release it are called cholinergic. Cholinergic neurons include all preganglionic neurons of the autonomic nervous system, postganglionic neurons of the parasympathetic nervous system and some postganglionic neurons (sweat glands) of the sympathetic nervous system. 2. Dual Innervation. There are two branches or divisions of the autonomic nervous system (ANS): the sympathetic and parasympathetic. Both branches innervate most organs in an arrangement called dual innervation. The parasympathetic division is most active during rest and stimulates digestive activities.
II. Preganglionic parasympathetic fibers originate in the brain and in the spinal cord. A. Preganglionic parasympathetic fibers contribute to cranial nerves III, VII, IX, and X. B. The long preganglionic fibers of the vagus (X) nerve synapse in terminal ganglia located next to or within the innervated organ. All preganglionic autonomic nerve fibers are cholinergic (use ACh as a neurotransmitter). A. All postganglionic parasympathetic fibers are cholinergic. B. Most postganglionic sympathetic fibers are adrenergic (use norepinephrine
I. Preganglionic neurons of the sympathetic division originate in the spinal cord, between the thoracic and lumbar levels. A. Many of these fibers synapse with postganglionic neurons whose cell bodies are located in a double chain of sympathetic (paravertebral) ganglia outside the spinal cord. All preganglionic autonomic nerve fibers are cholinergic (use ACh as a neurotransmitter). A. All postganglionic parasympathetic fibers are cholinergic. B. Most postganglionic sympathetic fibers are adrenergic (use norepinephrine
I. Preganglionic autonomic neurons originate from the brain or spinal cord; postganglionic neurons originate from ganglia located outside the CNS. II. Smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, and glands receive autonomic innervation. All preganglionic autonomic nerve fibers are cholinergic (use ACh as a neurotransmitter). A. All postganglionic parasympathetic fibers are cholinergic. B. Most postganglionic sympathetic fibers are adrenergic (use norepinephrine
The parasympathetic division is also known as the craniosacral division of the autonomic system. This is because its preganglionic fibers originate in the brain (specifically, in the midbrain, medulla oblongata, and pons) and in the second through fourth sacral levels of the spinal column. The oculomotor nerve contains somatic motor and parasympathetic fibers that originate in the oculomotor nuclei of the midbrain. These parasympathetic fibers synapse in the ciliary ganglion, whose postganglionic fibers innervate the ciliary muscle and constrictor fibers in the iris of the eye.