Last week I had the pleasure of interviewing Philip Glass on the eve of the world premiere of his new opera The Trial, based on Kafka’s masterpiece. Researching for the discussion I was struck by the number of critics who describe Glass as one of the most influential composers of the 20th Century. It got me thinking about who my top 10 composers of the era would be.
By the middle of the 20th Century his style had developed considerably, to the point where he began creating the paintings that he’s famous for today. These include large, rectangular shaped blocks in deep, rich colours – often shades of red and blue. “Hockney, A Bigger Splash”. Pablo Picasso was another Spanish artist who worked during the 20th Century. He is most famous for painting in a style known as cubism, as can be seen in his works Les Demoiselles d’Avignon and The Weeping Woman.
The Wright Brothers. The most important people of the 20th century, no doubt, The Wright brothers, Orville and Wilbur, were two American brothers, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were responsible for one of the biggest and the most significant inventions of the 20th century; the airplane. 7. The most important people of the 20th century, no doubt, The Wright brothers, Orville and Wilbur, were two American brothers, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were responsible for one of the biggest and the most significant inventions of the 20th century; the airplane.
African-American men and women have made great contributions to American society throughout the 20th century. Below you will find a listing of 100 African Americans who truly achieved greatness by either advancing civil rights or making major impacts in science, government, sports, or entertainment. Michael Jordan. 
The 20th century was a century that began on January 1, 1901 and ended on December 31, 2000. It was the tenth and final century of the 2nd millennium. It is distinct from the century known as the 1900s (sometimes written as 19XX), which began on January 1, 1900 and ended on December 31, 1999.
Conclusion: The 20th century was, perhaps, the most prominent from a reading and writing point of view as the preceding century was not as gifted in technological advancements, and the following century was a bit too advanced. People are only too preoccupied with the Internet to afford time for reading books. William Butler Yeats was born in Sandymouth County, Dublin, Ireland on June 13, 1865 and died in Menton, France on January 28, 1939. He was an Anglo-Irish symbolist poet and considered 1 of the main writers of the 20th century.
The Times Top 200 Artists. The Times Top 200 Artists of the 20th Century to Now, created in association with the Saatchi Gallery. 
At the beginning of the 20th century Henri Matisse and several other young artists including the pre-cubist Georges Braque, Andre André, Derain Raoul dufy And maurice De vlaminck revolutionized The paris art world with, wild-multi, colored, expressive landscapes and figure paintings that the critics Called. fauvism 20th-century Western painting begins with the heritage of painters like Vincent van Gogh, Paul Cezanne, Cézanne Paul, Gauguin Georges seurat And henri De-Toulouse lautrec all of whom were essential for the development of modern. art
The most influential scientist of the 20th century epoch, Albert Einstein (1879-1955) is known as the Father of Modern Physics. He may have revolutionized scientific thought, but what made the public adore him was his down-to-earth sense of humor. Known for making short quips, Einstein was the people’s scientist. 7. The most important people of the 20th century, no doubt, The Wright brothers, Orville and Wilbur, were two American brothers, inventors, and aviation pioneers who were responsible for one of the biggest and the most significant inventions of the 20th century; the airplane.