For the medicine to be beneficial for you, you should start this medication within two days / forty eight hours of the symptoms showing up. You should take this medication twice a day; once in the morning and once in the evening. This is generally prescribed for a course of five days. Do not discontinue the course in any case. As a preventive measure you should take this medicine once a day. Medication schedule. But if you are taking this medicine in the mornings then you should continue to take this tablet only in the mornings, if in the evenings, then only in the evenings. Taking the tablet one day in the morning and the next day in the evening will reduce the effects of the tablet.
Tamiflu is used to treat people 2 weeks of age and older who have the flu (influenza A and B viruses). Tamiflu is also sometimes used for prevention (prophylaxis) of the flu in people 1 year of age and older, but it is not a substitute for getting the flu vaccine. Q. It works by attacking the flu virus to keep it from multiplying in your body and by reducing the symptoms of the flu. Tamiflu can sometimes keep you from getting the flu if you take it before you get sick. The term flu refers to illness caused by the influenza virus. The flu is a respiratory infection that can cause symptoms such as fever, chills, aches and pains, cough, and sore throat
Tamiflu may be recommended as a preventive measure if a person has been in close contact with someone who has the flu or if a community outbreak of flu occurs. Tamiflu should not be used in place of early vaccination with the flu vaccine. Treatment of Influenza. Tamiflu is effective against the two most common influenza viruses -- Influenza A and Influenza B. The 2009 H1N1 strain is an Influenza A virus, and Tamiflu is expected to be effective against H1N1 influenza.
The drug may also help prevent the spread of flu to others. Tamiflu is licensed to treat the flu in adults and children as young as two weeks of age. Prevention of Influenza. Tamiflu is also used to decrease the chances of developing symptoms of the flu in the first place. It can be used for flu prevention in adults, as well as in children 1 year of age and older. Treatment of Influenza. Tamiflu is effective against the two most common influenza viruses -- Influenza A and Influenza B. The 2009 H1N1 strain is an Influenza A virus, and Tamiflu is expected to be effective against H1N1 influenza.
Cochrane researchers say there's not enough evidence to prove Tamiflu works. The CDC and the World Health Organization recommend the drug as effective. The FDA and the European Medicines Agency approve Tamiflu for the treatment and prevention of flu. Tamiflu can lessen symptoms and make flu illness one to two days shorter, the CDC says. It can also help prevent flu illness in people who have come into close contact with a flu patient.
In case they are taking it as a preventive measure then it is prescribed for them to take this medicine every alternate day. The suspension of Tamiflu is given to children under the age of twelve years. Medication schedule. But if you are taking this medicine in the mornings then you should continue to take this tablet only in the mornings, if in the evenings, then only in the evenings. Taking the tablet one day in the morning and the next day in the evening will reduce the effects of the tablet.
A. No. The number of times a day (frequency) and the number of days (duration) that you take Tamiflu are different for treatment and prevention of the flu. Your healthcare provider will tell you how to take Tamiflu. It works by attacking the flu virus to keep it from multiplying in your body and by reducing the symptoms of the flu. Tamiflu can sometimes keep you from getting the flu if you take it before you get sick. The term flu refers to illness caused by the influenza virus. The flu is a respiratory infection that can cause symptoms such as fever, chills, aches and pains, cough, and sore throat
Tamiflu is a prescription medicine used to treat the flu (influenza) in people 2 weeks of age and older who have had flu symptoms for no more than 2 days. Tamiflu can also reduce the chance of getting the flu in people 1 year and older. Tamiflu does not prevent bacterial infections that may happen with the flu. Tamiflu is not a substitute for an annual flu vaccination. Do not take Tamiflu if you are allergic to oseltamivir phosphate or any of the ingredients in Tamiflu.