There are two types of vitamins: fat-soluble and water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins are found mainly in fatty foods and animal products, such as vegetable oils, milk and dairy foods, eggs, liver, oily fish and butter. Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the ai
1 Whole foods are complex, containing a variety of the micronutrients your body needs — not just one. 2  An orange, for example, provides vitamin C plus some beta carotene, calcium and other nutrients. 3  It's likely these compounds work together to produce their beneficial effect. 4  Essential fiber. Whole foods offer three main benefits over dietary supplements: 1  Greater nutrition. 2  Whole foods are complex, containing a variety of the micronutrients your body needs — not just one. 3
Healthy foods that contain vitamin B12 include: organic beef liver, wild salmon, organic beef, raw, organic milk, organic cheese, organic eggs, organic, chicken, and organic turkey. Healthy foods that contain vitamin B6 include: potato, banana, wild salmon, organic chicken, spinach, avocado, organic turkey, organic beef, collard greens, brown rice, and green peas.
1 Some types of fish, such as salmon. 2  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 3  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 4  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 5  Fortified breakfast cereals. Vitamin A is found naturally in many foods and is added to some foods, such as milk and cereal. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin A by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat).
Fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are found mainly in fatty foods and animal products, such as vegetable oils, milk and dairy foods, eggs, liver, oily fish and butter. While your body needs these vitamins every day to work properly, you don't need to eat foods containing them every day. Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the air
If you're generally healthy and eat a wide variety of foods, including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, low-fat dairy products, lean meats and fish, you likely don't need supplements. However, the dietary guidelines recommend supplements — or fortified foods — in the following situations: Whole foods offer three main benefits over dietary supplements: 1  Greater nutrition. 2  Whole foods are complex, containing a variety of the micronutrients your body needs — not just one. 3  An orange, for example, provides vitamin C plus some beta carotene, calcium and other nutrients.
1 Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat). 2  Some types of fish, such as salmon. 3  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. Vitamin A is found naturally in many foods and is added to some foods, such as milk and cereal. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin A by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1 
You can get calcium from milk and milk products (remember to choose fat-free or low-fat whenever possible), some forms of tofu, dark-green leafy vegetables (like collard greens and kale), soybeans, canned sardines and salmon with bones, and calcium-fortified foods. There are several types of calcium supplements. 
1 Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 2  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 3  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 4  Fortified breakfast cereals. Vitamin A is found naturally in many foods and is added to some foods, such as milk and cereal. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin A by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat).