An earthworm is a tube-shaped, segmented worm found in the phylum Annelida. They are commonly found living in soil, feeding on live and dead organic matter. Its digestive system runs through the length of its body. It conducts respiration through its skin. Theoretical cladistic studies have placed them, instead, in the suborder Lumbricina of the order Haplotaxida, but this may again soon change. Folk names for the earthworm include dew-worm, rainworm, night crawler, and angleworm (due to its use as fishing bait).
The setae are used for locomotion by the earthworm. Earthworms can be found in just about every corner of the earth. They live in trees, in bark, and under rocks as well as along rivers, near springs, and in ponds. Their favorite place to live, however, is burrowed inside the earth’s rich soil. Depending on the environmental conditions, certain earthworm species may live anywhere from 4-8 years. The life span of an earthworm also depends on the number of predators the worm has to fend off each day. If the earthworm lives in a thriving environment and free from most predators, it is not uncommon for earthworms to live up to 10 years or more. Earthworms play an important part in our environment. They help trees, plants, vegetables and fruits thrive through their work. Earthworms aerate the
A. Earthworms have bristles or setae in groups around or under their body. The bristles, paired in groups on each segment, can be moved in and out to grip the ground or the walls of a burrow. A. The head of the worm is always located on the end of the worm closest to the clitellum. Place a worm on a rough piece of paper and observe which direction it travels. Earthworms usually extend their head first when crawling.
While worms of all kinds can be found all over the world, especially earthworms (2,700 species), places like China, Australia, Greenland, and the Sahara Desert have their own indigenous species of worms. Worms feed off of leaves and dead grass which contain organisms that provide a healthy diet of bacteria, algae, and fungi to the worm. Worms feast on dirt as well, especially if they live deeper inside the earth. Worms also eat plants, fruits, and vegetables. Believe it or not, worms do have mouths. Their mouths are actually big enough and powerful enough to grab a leaf and drag it around
Earthworms and their relatives live anywhere there is moist soil and dead plant material. Earthworms are most abundant in rainy forest areas, but can be found in many habitats on land and in freshwater. All earthworm species need moist soil conditions to survive. Most earthworms species live in the top meter or so of soil, and spend much of their time just below the surface where there is plenty of decomposing plant material. Some species emerge onto the surface at night when it is damp enough.
The rest of it is in its burrow. Earthworms are hermaphroditic, meaning they can all lay eggs after they mate. Earthworms lay coccoons which have an egg inside. Once an earthworm has hatched, it can live up to about three years. Earthworms have many predators, including: ants, mites, centipedes, earwigs, nematodes, fly larvae, termites, springtails, sowbugs, snails, slugs, spiders, birds, rats, mice, moles, toads, turtles, and snakes. Most native earthworms are thought to be long gone. Earthworms' bodies are soft and long with a cylinder shape. Nightcrawlers, the largest, can grow up to eight inches long. Their coloration is brownish-red. Earthworms live in soil in meadows, woods, stream banks, and lawns. They burrow up to six feet deep.
Earthworms can be found at just about every corner of the earth. They live in trees, in bark, and under rocks as well as along rivers and near springs, and ponds. Worms feed off of leaves and dead grass which contain organisms that provide a healthy diet of bacteria, algae, and fungi to the worm. Worms feast on dirt as well, especially if they live deeper inside the earth. Worms also eat plants, fruits, and vegetables. Believe it or not, worms do have mouths. Their mouths are actually big enough and powerful enough to grab a leaf and drag it around
1 Litter dwellers or epigeic species live in crop or forest litter. 2  They are not common in most agricultural soils. 3  These species do not ingest large amounts of soil. 4  The manure or red worm, Eisenia foetida, is an example of a litter dweller. 