Make a well in the centre of the flour mixture and pour in the liquid mixture. Slowly mix together the dough by working from the centre and incorporating the flour from the edges of the 'well', to make a smooth, soft dough. Knead well for 8-10 minutes, adding a little flour if the dough is too sticky. 
In a medium bowl, mix together flour, baking powder, and salt. Make a depression in the center, and pour in your frothy yeast mixture. Then add milk, yogurt, egg, and ghee. Mix everything together until you get a smooth ball of dough. Knead the dough well for 10 to 15 minutes. Oil a medium bowl, and place the dough into the bowl and turn the dough over so it is well covered in oil. Cover the bowl with a towel, and place it in a warm place for two hours until the dough has doubled in siz
How to make Naan: 1  Take the yeast and dissolve it water taken in a bowl. 2  Cover the mixture and leave it aside for 10 minutes. 3  Now take the all purpose flour in a shallow tray and make a depression in the center. 4  Add yeast, ghee, sugar and salt. 5  Mix them properly. 1 Cover the mixture and leave it aside for 10 minutes. 2  Now take the all purpose flour in a shallow tray and make a depression in the center. 3  Add yeast, ghee, sugar and salt. 4  Mix them properly. 5  Add some more water if it is required. 6  Put the mixture on a floured surface and make dough. 7  Knead it well for 5-7 minutes.
1 Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 2  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 3  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 4  Remove from grill, and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared. 1 At grill side, roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle. 2  Lightly oil grill. 3  Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 4  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 5  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes.
Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  In a large bowl, dissolve yeast in warm water. 2  Let stand about 10 minutes, until frothy. 3  Stir in sugar, milk, egg, salt, and enough flour to make a soft dough. 4  Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface, or until smooth. 1 At grill side, roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle. 2  Lightly oil grill. 3  Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 4  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 5  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes.
1 mix the flour with the wet ingredients that we made first. 2  knead to make a smooth dough. if the dough looks dry then add some water and knead again. the dough should be smooth and soft. 3  cover with a wet cloth and keep aside for 10 minutes. after 10 minutes, add oil and knead the dough again. 2. mix till smooth. 3. sieve 3 cups flour (2 cups whole wheat flour/atta + 1 cup all purpose flour/maida or half-half of both or just all purpose flour), 1.5 tsp baking powder, a pinch or ¼ tsp baking soda and salt as required. 4. mix the sieved flour with the milk + yogurt + water mixture. knead to a smooth dough
1 mix water, milk and yogurt. stir in the sugar in the above mixture. 2  sieve the flours, baking powder, baking soda and salt. 3  mix the flour with the wet ingredients that we made first. 4  knead to make a smooth dough. if the dough looks dry then add some water and knead again. the dough should be smooth and soft. 2. mix till smooth. 3. sieve 3 cups flour (2 cups whole wheat flour/atta + 1 cup all purpose flour/maida or half-half of both or just all purpose flour), 1.5 tsp baking powder, a pinch or ¼ tsp baking soda and salt as required. 4. mix the sieved flour with the milk + yogurt + water mixture. knead to a smooth dough
1 Lightly oil grill. 2  Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 3  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 4  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 5  Remove from grill, and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared. 1 At grill side, roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle. 2  Lightly oil grill. 3  Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 4  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 5  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes.