So, those were some common as well as not-so-common human diseases that protists cause. Most of these protists are transmitted through such an insect vector, that has frequent and regular interactions with particular geographical sections of human populations for feeding purposes. The parasite invades the small intestine, and the common symptoms are watery stool, flatulence, and accumulation of foul-smelling stomach gas, vomiting, abdominal cramps, and foul breath. Some other noteworthy but comparatively uncommon diseases caused by protists would include:-.
Protozoan infections are parasitic diseases caused by organisms formerly classified in the Kingdom Protozoa. They include organisms classified in Amoebozoa, Excavata, and Chromalveolata. Examples include Entamoeba histolytica, Plasmodium (some of which cause malaria), and Giardia lamblia. 
1 Most protist diseases in humans are caused by protozoa. 2  Protozoa make humans sick when they become human parasites. 3  Trypanosoma protozoa cause Chagas disease and sleeping sickness. 4  Giardia protozoa cause giardiasis, and Plasmodium protozoa cause malaria. Lesson Summary. 1  Most protist diseases in humans are caused by protozoa. 2  Protozoa make humans sick when they become human parasites. 3  Trypanosoma protozoa cause Chagas disease and sleeping sickness. 4  Giardia protozoa cause giardiasis, and Plasmodium protozoa cause malaria.
Giardiasis. Giardiasis, an infection of the small intestine is caused by protists known as Giardia Lamblia. The disease is more common in developing countries as compared to the developed countries. It causes symptoms like cramps, diarrhea, fatigue, weight loss and other similar symptoms. Gradually, symptoms like fever, chills, excessive sweating, malaise, diarrhea, vomiting etc develop. African Sleeping Sickness. African Sleeping Sickness or Trypanosomiasis is tsetse fly borne parasitic disease caused by the protists of Trypanosoma Genus. Tsetse flies are mostly found in sub Saharan Africa.
Malaria is an infectious disease caused by protists of the Plasmodium genus. This mosquito-borne disease is prevalent in tropical and subtropical regions, particularly the areas below the Sahara Dessert in Africa. Gradually, symptoms like fever, chills, excessive sweating, malaise, diarrhea, vomiting etc develop. African Sleeping Sickness. African Sleeping Sickness or Trypanosomiasis is tsetse fly borne parasitic disease caused by the protists of Trypanosoma Genus. Tsetse flies are mostly found in sub Saharan Africa.
Amoebic Dysentery: Caused by the protist Entamoeba histolytica, this type of dysentery is caused when food or water contaminated with these amoeba are consumed, or when hands are not properly sanitized and disinfected after having touched contaminated objects. The parasite invades the small intestine, and the common symptoms are watery stool, flatulence, and accumulation of foul-smelling stomach gas, vomiting, abdominal cramps, and foul breath. Some other noteworthy but comparatively uncommon diseases caused by protists would include:-.
African Sleeping Sickness: Caused by the protist protozoa Trypanosoma brucei, this disease exhibits symptoms like fever and headaches in the initial stages, which may be accompanied by vital organ dysfunction, followed by swelling of the lymph nodes in the second stage. The parasite invades the small intestine, and the common symptoms are watery stool, flatulence, and accumulation of foul-smelling stomach gas, vomiting, abdominal cramps, and foul breath. Some other noteworthy but comparatively uncommon diseases caused by protists would include:-.
Giardiasis: This is a form of diarrhea caused by the infectious protist Giardia lamblia. Giardia cysts can be transmitted on coming in contact with an infected person, who does not maintain proper personal hygiene, or by coming in contact with contaminated water. The parasite invades the small intestine, and the common symptoms are watery stool, flatulence, and accumulation of foul-smelling stomach gas, vomiting, abdominal cramps, and foul breath. Some other noteworthy but comparatively uncommon diseases caused by protists would include:-.
caused african causes trypanosoma. Many protists can cause serious illness and disease. Malaria, for example, is caused by the protist Plasmodium. Plasmodia are sporozoans and are transferred from person to person through female Anopheles mosquitoes. People who suffer from malaria experience symptoms such as shivering, sweating, high fevers, and delirium. Giardiasis is another example of a disease caused by a protist. This illness is caused by Giardia, a sporozoan carried by muskrats and beavers. Giardiasis is characterized by fatigue, cramps, diarrhea, and weight loss.