Anguilla is located in the British West Indies, approximately 6 miles from St. Martin in the Eastern Caribbean. (See maps of the Caribbean and Anguilla). 1  Anguilla is the northern-most of the Leeward Islands in the Lesser Antilles. 2  Latitude is 18N and Longitude is 63W. 3  Anguilla’s weather is idyllic. 
Anguilla is a small island located in the heart of the Caribbean Sea. It is directly east of some of the larger islands like Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and north of other Caribbean islands like St. Maarten and St. Kitts and Nevis. 
Share |. Anguilla is located in the Caribbean Sea, the northern most island in the Leeward Island chain. Anguilla is a group of Caribbean Sea Islands under the control of United Kingdom. Among the several small islands, Anguilla is the largest one. The capital city of this island is the Valley. Anguilla is located east of Puerto Rico and north of Saint Martin in the Caribbean Sea. By virtue of having coral beaches and reefs, the island Anguilla has spectacular landscapes. Besides, there are many islands, where no habitant lives or having a few habitants. Some of the significant Anguilla islands are:
The territory consists of the main island of Anguilla itself, approximately 16 miles (26 km) long by 3 miles (5 km) wide at its widest point, together with a number of much smaller islands and cays with no permanent population. The island's capital is The Valley. Anguilla was first settled by Amerindian tribes who migrated from South America. The earliest Native American artifacts found on Anguilla have been dated to around 1300 BC; remains of settlements date from AD 600. The Arawak name for the island seems to have been Malliouhana.
Anguilla is located in the Caribbean approximately 170 miles east of Puerto Rico and 5 miles north of the French side of St. Martin/St. Maarten. Take just a 20 minute ferry ride between Anguilla and St. Martin. This exquisite island is merely 16 miles long and 3 miles wide. You are welcomed by rolling hills covered by sparse vegetation and some of the most exquisite white sand beaches in the Caribbean and undisturbed reefs for snorkeling and diving.
Viceroy Anguilla is located on the island of Anguilla in the British West Indies, just five miles from St. Maarten and twenty miles from St. Barths – close enough for easy access, secluded enough to be one of the world's most exclusive resort destinations. 1  Property Address. 2  Area Map. 3  Directions from Key Points. 
Anguilla (/aeŋˈɡwɪlə/ æŋˈɡwɪlə-ANG-gwil) ə is A british overseas territory in The. Caribbean it is one of the most northerly of The Leeward islands in The Lesser, antilles lying east Of Puerto rico and The Virgin islands and directly north Of Saint. martin Anguilla was first settled by Amerindian tribes who migrated from South America. The earliest Native American artifacts found on Anguilla have been dated to around 1300 BC; remains of settlements date from AD 600. The Arawak name for the island seems to have been Malliouhana.
Tucked away in the Eastern Caribbean, Anguilla is the most northern island in the Leeward Island chain, less than ten miles north of St. Martin and 200 miles east of Puerto Rico, two of our major gateways. 
Our beloved 39 square mile desert island is located in the Leeward chain of islands, east of Puerto Rico. In fact, it is the most northern island in all of the Caribbean sea. The closest island to Anguilla is Sint Maarten, four miles south. Just hop on an Anguilla ferry and you will be in France in twenty minutes! 
Anguilla is a British overseas territory in the northeastern Caribbean, first settled by Amerindian tribes who migrated here from South America. 