Follow manufacturer's instructions on detergent type and quantity for cleaning. Some cool mist humidifiers recommend that you scrub the tank with a solution of one gallon of water and 1/4 cup household bleach or a solution of water and 3 percent hydrogen peroxide. Scrub all surfaces with a soft-bristled brush, and use a toothbrush or toothpick to reach small crevices or holes
6. You'll most likely need to fill any humidifier every day. A one-liter unit running for 8 hours on low will need to be filled daily, as would a 3-gallon humidifier which may operate for 12-15 hours. 
A: Most portable humidifiers will need to be refilled once every 24 hours if you plan to use it continuously throughout the day and night. Select models, provide continuous humidification for more than 24 hours per refill. If you use your humidifier intermittently, you'll need to refill it less often. A: It's difficult to say how much of an impact a humidifier will have on your monthly energy bill. The answer to this depends on many factors including the number of hours you use the humidifier each day, your humidification speed setting, the type of your humidifier you're using, and your electricity rate.
In most cases, moisture levels between 30 percent and 50 percent are comfortable. Any levels below or above this percentage may cause problems to the home and the occupants. High moisture levels can be a breeding ground for mold and mildew. 
1 Don't run the humidifier run indoors when you're using vinegar in the water tank. 2  It will make your home smell like vinegar. 3  Don't use bleach or any other chemical to do a deep clean through the working part of the humidifier. Rinse out the tank one more time before using. 1  Don't run the humidifier run indoors when you're using vinegar in the water tank. 2
Humidity can make your house more comfortable. A suggested humidity level would be 30% humidity at 70F. In winter months, the humidity in the home could drop as low as 15%. A Humid-a-Mist humidifier can help replenish the humidity level of your home to a much more comfortable level. Call Boston Environmental (617) 364 - 2764 today or email us and get a installed price on putting a Humid-a-Mist system in your house. Prices start at $475.00 and up for most homes
Generally set the humidistat in the medium range (30 – 50%RH) or at a level that maintains your personal comfort. Your humidifier could run constantly for up to 24 hours at the beginning of the heating season to reach the desired relative humidity in your home. I just got one today, and was wondering how long I should leave it on in my room for everyday? I know I have to leave it on overnight. And what percent of the water should I put it on? 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%. For some reason, the fan turns off if I put it on 35,40, and sometimes 45.
Most cool mist humidifier manufacturers recommend using clean, clear tap water. While tap water may be suitable in many areas of the country, and studies have not conclusively shown that minerals in tap water pose a serious risk, the EPA recommends the use of distilled water for cool mist humidifiers. Some cool mist humidifiers recommend that you scrub the tank with a solution of one gallon of water and 1/4 cup household bleach or a solution of water and 3 percent hydrogen peroxide.
Ideal humidity levels. Humidity is the amount of water vapor in the air. The amount of humidity varies depending on the season, weather and where you live. Generally, humidity levels are higher in the summer and lower during winter months. Ideally, humidity in your home should be between 30 and 50 percent. Humidity that's too low or too high can cause problems. 