Thus, an average diet of 1,900 calories per day would dictate an intake of 1,900 ml (approximately 64 ounces) of water. However, people interpreted this as a recommendation to drink 1,900 ml of pure water, forgetting the fact that water is also found in abundance in the other liquids and foods we consume.
Learn how much water you should drink every day. You need half of your body weight in ounces of water daily. This is the number most individuals recognize and aspire to for their daily water intake. A good rule for drinking the right amount of water is to drink one glass of water each hour. An average person should drink this amount of water daily. It is the recommended daily water intake amount to drink 12 glasses of water. If you drink alcohol, you should drink at least an equal amount of water. Drinking a good amount of water could lower your risks of a heart attack.
The average horse will intake 5 to 10 gallons of fresh water per day. Just like humans different horses crave or need different water amount intakes. A horse deprived of feed, but supplied drinking water, is capable of surviving 20 to 25 days.
So how much fluid does the average, healthy adult living in a temperate climate need? The Institute of Medicine determined that an adequate intake (AI) for men is roughly about 13 cups (3 liters) of total beverages a day. The AI for women is about 9 cups (2.2
Studies have shown that by drinking 50 to 75 percent of your body weight in ounces is an accurate amount. If you do not consider yourself an active person, then 50 percent would be more in your range. For example, if you weigh 120 pounds, you should drink at least 60 ounces of water each day.
Everyone’s heard the old refrain — drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water a day. Turns out that’s not entirely accurate. The Mayo Clinic recommends about 13 cups a day for an average male and about nine cups a day for the average female. But the actual amount of water a person should drink in a day can vary based on where you live, how much you weigh, and what kind of lifestyle you lead.