In this episode, the six lobes of the brain are explored along with the major fissures that separate them. The major function of each lobe is also described. Finally, the bones of the cranial vault are identified. Like us on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/AnatomyGuy. 
1 Calcarin's fissure: extends from the occipital of the cerebrum to the occipital fissure. 2  Callosomarginal fissure: found in the mesial surface of the cerebrum. 3  Central sulcus or Rolando's fissure: separates the brain's frontal and parietal lobes. 1 Medial longitudinal fissure or Longitudinal fissure: which divides the cerebrum into the two hemispheres. 2  Fissure of Bichat: found below the corpus callosum in the cerebellum of the brain. 3  Broca's fissure: found in the third left frontal fold of the brain.
Many brain features are identified with fissures, including Broca's fissure, the Fissure of Sylvius, the central (Rolando's) fissure, and the hippocampal fissure. the fissures of a human brain are deeper than the fissures of the sheep brain. Edit. Share to: 1  About Cracked Heels and How to Relieve Them Cracked heels can be painful and unattractive. 2  They can also leave your feet susceptible to bacterial and fungal infections.
Neuroanatomy: Lobes and Major Fissures. Posted on June 6, 2011 by MattMy. 1 Comment. In this episode, the six lobes of the brain are explored along with the major fissures that separate them. The major function of each lobe is also described. Finally, the bones of the cranial vault are identified. 1a-Lobes&Fissures. 
1 Clevenger's fissure: found in the inferior temporal lobe of the brain. 2  Collateral fissure: found in the inferior surface of the cerebrum. 3  Hippocampal sulcus: a sulcus that extends from the brain's corpus callosum to the tip of the temporal lobe. 1 Medial longitudinal fissure or Longitudinal fissure: which divides the cerebrum into the two hemispheres. 2  Fissure of Bichat: found below the corpus callosum in the cerebellum of the brain. 3  Broca's fissure: found in the third left frontal fold of the brain.
The cerebrum is the most superior and anterior of the brain’s major regions. It is the seat of reason, planning, memory, and sensory integration. All conscious thought originates in the cerebrum and can influence the subconscious functions of the lower regions of the brain. 
1 Fissure of Bichat: found below the corpus callosum in the cerebellum of the brain. 2  Broca's fissure: found in the third left frontal fold of the brain. 3  Burdach's fissure: connects the brain's insula and the inner surface of the operculum. 1 Medial longitudinal fissure or Longitudinal fissure: which divides the cerebrum into the two hemispheres. 2  Fissure of Bichat: found below the corpus callosum in the cerebellum of the brain. 3  Broca's fissure: found in the third left frontal fold of the brain.
There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. Brain fissures are convolutions in the structure of the brain that form valleys between folds. The valleys are called fissures or sulci (plural of sulcus), and lie between the raised folds called gyri (singular gyrus). the fissures of a human brain are deeper than the fissures of the sheep brain. Edit. Share to: 1  About Cracked Heels and How to Relieve Them Cracked heels can be painful and unattractive. 2  They can also leave your feet susceptible to bacterial and fungal infections.
1 Central sulcus or Rolando's fissure: separates the brain's frontal and parietal lobes. 2  Clevenger's fissure: found in the inferior temporal lobe of the brain. 3  Collateral fissure: found in the inferior surface of the cerebrum. 1 Medial longitudinal fissure or Longitudinal fissure: which divides the cerebrum into the two hemispheres. 2  Fissure of Bichat: found below the corpus callosum in the cerebellum of the brain. 3  Broca's fissure: found in the third left frontal fold of the brain.