The nervous system is the highway along which your brain sends and receives information about what is happening in the body and around it. This highway is made up of billions of nerve cells, or neurons (say new-rons) which join together to make nerves. 1  A nerve is a fibre that sends impulses through the body. 
A reflex is the simplest, quickest form of activity in the nervous system. It is an automatic, involuntary, unthinking response to a stimulus. The reflex arc are the neurons that form the pathway of the impulses of a reflex. 
The nervous system is a complex collection of nerves and specialized cells known as neurons that transmit signals between different parts of the body. It is essentially the body’s electrical wiring. Structurally, the nervous system has two components: the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. According to the National Institutes of Health, the central nervous system is made up of the brain, spinal cord and nerves. The peripheral nervous system consists of sensory neurons, ganglia (clusters of neurons) and nerves that connect to one another and to the cent
The size of the nervous system ranges from a few hundred cells in the simplest worms, to around 100 billion cells in humans. The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the body to others and to receive feedback. Malfunction of the nervous system can occur as a result of genetic defects, physical damage due to trauma or toxicity, infection or simply of ageing.
In vertebrate species it consists of two main parts, the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS contains the brain and spinal cord. The PNS consists mainly of nerves, which are enclosed bundles of the long fibers or axons, that connect the CNS to every other part of the body. The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the body to others and to receive feedback. Malfunction of the nervous system can occur as a result of genetic defects, physical damage due to trauma or toxicity, infection or simply of ageing.
The simplest and presumably most primitive form of nervous system is termed a nerve net. In a nerve net, neurons are dispersed in a thin layer, not clustered into nerves or a central nervous system (CNS), and they are positioned seemingly at random relative to each other. 
The nervous system is the part of an animal 's body that coordinates its voluntary and involuntary actions and transmits signals to and from different parts of its body. Nervous tissue first arose in wormlike organisms about 550 to 600 million years ago. The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the body to others and to receive feedback. Malfunction of the nervous system can occur as a result of genetic defects, physical damage due to trauma or toxicity, infection or simply of ageing.
At the cellular level, the nervous system is defined by the presence of a special type of cell, called the neuron, also known as a nerve cell. Neurons have special structures that allow them to send signals rapidly and precisely to other cells. The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the body to others and to receive feedback. Malfunction of the nervous system can occur as a result of genetic defects, physical damage due to trauma or toxicity, infection or simply of ageing.
In vertebrates, it also includes a spinal cord. The primary cell type found in the nervous system is the neuron, which has a cell body, containing the nucleus, and long extensions to carry information from one part of the body to another. Although the invertebrate nervous system is usually much simpler than the nervous systems found in vertebrates, there is still a broad range in complexity depending on the type of invertebrate. The simplest type of nervous system is found in hydras and jellyfish (cnidarians) and is referred to as a nerve net.. Nerve nets do not have distinct central or peripheral regions, and lack anything that resembles a brain. Instead, the scattered nerve cells form loose networks in each cell layer of the body wall