Both allergies and colds cause symptoms of sneezing, congestion, runny nose, watery eyes, fatigue and headaches. Pay close attention to the following, more subtle signs to learn whether you have a cold or. an allergy: 1  Cold symptoms often appear one at a time. 2  Allergy symptoms occur all at once. This is your nose’s reaction to the same pollen: sneezing, congestion, postnasal drip, runny nose and itchy throat. In fact, pollen can travel through connecting ducts from the eyes into the nose. Pollen is a fine powder released by plants in order to fertilize new seeds.
Runny nose (rhinorrhea) is a common symptom of heavy nasal discharges. This symptom can be super heavy in some people. It can be caused by an allergy, infection (e.g., cold or flu), inflammation, or physical irritation. Inflammation of the nose (called rhinitis) is a common cause of the runny nose. Other common causes include the common cold (upper respiratory infection), influenza (flu), and sinusitis (inflammation or infection of the sinuses). The running nose may be accompanied by redness, itching and/or sneezing. A runny nose sometimes, but not always, is accompanied by nasal congestion (or a stuffy nose). The main superficial causes of runny nose include bacterial and viral infections, meals, sleep, stress, emotions, and many others. However, low body-oxygen content, on a cell level, is always the key factor.
Eye allergies  red, itchy, watery eyes that are bothered by the same irritants that cause sneezing and a runny nose among seasonal allergy sufferers  are very common. In addition to having symptoms of sneezing, congestion and a runny nose, most of these allergy sufferers also experience itchy eyes, watery eyes, red eyes and swollen eyelids.
As the name suggests, antihistamines prevent the body from producing histamines, which cause your nose to run. Antihistamines dry out the mucus membranes in your nasal passages. You can try over-the-counter antihistamines that contain agents such as loratadine or diphenhydramine. With care, you can combat your runny nose, dry out your histamine swollen mucus membranes, and return your nose to normal. Once, you've dealt with your runny nose, you can then take steps to guard yourself from allergies in the future. Ad.
Rhinitis or coryza is irritation and inflammation of the mucous membrane inside the nose. Common symptoms are a stuffy nose, runny nose, sneezing, and post-nasal drip. In rhinitis, the inflammation of the mucous membrane is caused by viruses, bacteria, irritants or allergens. The most common kind of rhinitis is allergic rhinitis, which is usually triggered by airborne allergens such as pollen and dander. 
Antihistamines Antihistamines, which are taken by mouth or as a nasal spray, can relieve sneezing and itching in the nose and eyes. They also reduce runny nose and, to a lesser extent, nasal stuffiness. Some older antihistamines can cause side effects such as drowsiness and loss of alertness and coordination. 2 NIAID • Runny nose and mucus production• Sneezing• Itchy nose, eyes, ears, and mouth• Stuffy nose• Red and watery eyes• Swelling around the eyes• Coughing• Wheezing• Chest tightness• Shortness of breathHowever, not all of these seasonal symptoms are due to pollen.
1 Symptoms caused by histamine include a runny nose and itchy, watery eyes. 2  Antihistamines reduce allergic reactions by blocking the attachment of histamine to cells in the body that produce an allergic response. 3  Decongestants. 4  Decongestants help shrink swollen nasal passages for easier breathing. In addition to having symptoms of sneezing, congestion and a runny nose, most of these allergy sufferers also experience itchy eyes, watery eyes, red eyes and swollen eyelids.
Sneezing, congestion, itchy or watery eyes, and a runny nose can be signs that more histamine has been released than your body can handle. Leukotrienes, which play a role in your body’s late-phase defense, can cause nasal congestion and other allergy symptoms, too. 
Once you have a general idea of what causes your runny nose, you can start avoiding exposure to those allergens. 2. Avoid triggers. Environmental irritants and allergens like pollen, pet dander and hair, dust, and cigarette smoke can all dry out nasal passages and start the runny nose cycle. With care, you can combat your runny nose, dry out your histamine swollen mucus membranes, and return your nose to normal. Once, you've dealt with your runny nose, you can then take steps to guard yourself from allergies in the future. Ad.
Histamines trigger the runny nose, itchy eyes, and other symptoms of allergies. Pollen can travel for miles, spreading a path of misery for allergy sufferers along the way. The higher the pollen count, the greater the misery. The pollen count measures the amount of allergens in the air in grains per cubic meter. 