(plural anaphoras or anaphors or anaphora). ( 1 rhetoric) The repetition of a phrase at the beginning of phrases, sentences, or verses, used for emphasis. ( 2 linguistics) An expression that can refer to virtually any referent, the specific referent being defined by context. 
Definition. Anaphora is a rhetorical term for the repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of successive clauses. Adjective: anaphoric. Compare with epiphora and epistrophe. By building toward a climax, anaphora can create a strong emotional effect
Definition. Zero anaphora is the use of a gap, in a phrase or clause, that has an anaphoric function similar to a pro-form. It is often described as “referring back” to an expression that supplies the information necessary for interpreting the gap. What is zero anaphora? Zero anaphora is the use of a gap, in a phrase or clause, that has an anaphoric function similar to a pro-form.
2. anaphora-repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of successive clauses. epanaphora. repetition-the repeated use of the same word or word pattern as a rhetorical device. Translations. 1. The deliberate repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of several successive verses, clauses, or paragraphs; for example, We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills (Winston S. Churchill).
In writing or speech, the deliberate repetition of the first part of the sentence in order to achieve an artistic effect is known as Anaphora. Anaphora, possibly the oldest literary device, has its roots in Biblical Psalms used to emphasize certain words or phrases. 
A Definition…. Anaphora is the Greek term used to describe the repetition of the same word or phrase at the beginning of successive clauses or sentences. Anaphora, like many other rhetorical techniques, is commonly used in literature as well as in speeches. 
Anaphora is the repetition of a certain word or phrase at the beginning of successive lines of writing or speech. It can be used in novels and short stories, but it's most commonly seen in poetry, essays, and formal speeches. Martin Luther King Jr.'s speeches and sermons are full of instances of anaphora. Lesson Summary. Anaphora is the repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of each line of a poem, speech, or sermon. It can also be used in fiction, as in Charles Dickens' famous novel A Tale of Two Cities. Anaphora has the effect of engaging your audience in a particular emotional experience.
anaphora-repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of successive clauses. epanaphora. repetition-the repeated use of the same word or word pattern as a rhetorical device. 1. The deliberate repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of several successive verses, clauses, or paragraphs; for example, We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills (Winston S. Churchill).