That is a total of $30 to freeze your files. If you are not an identity theft victim and you are 65 years of age or older, it will cost you $5 to place a freeze with each of the three credit bureaus. That is a total of $15
1 Ask if there is a fee for putting a freeze on your credit file. 2  Ask how long the freeze lasts. 3  Contact each of the 3 nationwide credit reporting companies. 4  Report that you are an identity theft victim.
To place a freeze, you must request it in writing to each of the three credit bureaus. Credit bureaus charge a $10 fee to place or remove a security freeze, unless you provide proof that you are a victim of identity theft or are more than 65 years old, in which case there is no fee.
A credit freeze--also called a security freeze--is a very effective way to protect yourself against identity theft. However, the process can be confusing because the cost and process vary from state to state and among the three major credit bureaus.
The fee for placing a security freeze on a credit report is $10 (no fee for residents 65 years of age or older). If you are a victim of identity theft and submit a valid investigative or incident report, complaint with a law enforcement agency or the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), the fee will be waived.
The cost to place and lift a freeze, and how long the freeze lasts, depend on state law: In many states, identity theft victims can place a freeze for free, but in others, victims must pay a fee, which is usually about $10. If you have a police report, you may be able to place or lift a freeze for free.
Georgia's credit freeze law provides Georgia consumers with the ability to place a freeze on their credit file for only $3, or a total of $9 for each of the three major credit-reporting agencies: Equifax, Experian and TransUnion.
Cost. According to consumer advocate Clark Howard, the cost of a credit freeze varies depending on the credit bureau and your state of residence. It usually runs from $3 to $10, although it may be free if you are already a victim of identity theft.
The credit bureaus must lift your freeze within three days. For consumers under 65 years of age, the fee for lifting the freeze temporarily is $10 for a date-range lift or for a lift for a specific creditor. For consumers 65 years of age or older, the fee for either type of temporary lift is $5.