Although the cost of cremation varies based on several factors, including whether you have a viewing in a casket prior to the cremation, the process is usually cheaper than a traditional funeral. Average Cost. The national median cost of direct cremations was $2,260 in 2013, according to the National Funeral Directors Association. Families who wanted a viewing prior to the cremation paid a median price of $5,410, while those who purchased urns added a median amount of $275 to the direct cremation cost.
According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead.
When there's a viewing of the body and funeral services, the cost of cremation can be about $3,500, including the costs of the funeral director or staff transporting the body, embalming and otherwise preparing the deceased for viewing, as well as a nondescript casket. Cremation fees, possible transport and embalming fees may apply and can range anywhere from $800 to $1,000. The decision to handle the body without a funeral director mediating the process, taking the remains directly to a crematory can range from $100 to $300. This eliminates the option for a funeral or viewing.
Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style. In a survey of Cremation Costs last year, in a Texas community near Dallas, we found the charge for a direct cremation ranged from $710 to a high of $3820, depending on which funeral home one used. What makes these numbers even more amazing is; all these funeral homes use the SAME CREMATORY and pay the same fee!
Broadly speaking, the average cost of cremation with services handled by a funeral home is between $2,000 and $4,000. If these services are handled directly by a crematory, you can expect to pay between $1,500 and $3,000 (http://funeral-tips.com). In the Los Angeles, California, area a cremation package from Forest Lawn costs $2,153, but that doesn't include a place to put the ashes. A niche internment costs $715 while a ground internment costs $1,540; a scattering at sea costs $150.
The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory. In a survey of Cremation Costs last year, in a Texas community near Dallas, we found the charge for a direct cremation ranged from $710 to a high of $3820, depending on which funeral home one used. What makes these numbers even more amazing is; all these funeral homes use the SAME CREMATORY and pay the same fee!
Methods. The cost of a cremation service varies depending on the final disposition of a person's remains. Morticians often become involved in the cremation process; they are required by law to provide delineated pricing information in advance for services performed. Cremation fees, possible transport and embalming fees may apply and can range anywhere from $800 to $1,000. The decision to handle the body without a funeral director mediating the process, taking the remains directly to a crematory can range from $100 to $300. This eliminates the option for a funeral or viewing.
The exact cost of human cremation depends on factors like the region, the type of cremation service you choose, the cost of casket or alternative container, price of cremation urn, the way you want to dispose of the ashes, etc. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead.
California Cremation Costs. The average cost of cremation is a fraction of funeral and burial costs in California, less than a quarter of the $10,000+ cost of an average funeral and burial. With cremation, there is no need to embalm or to purchase a cemetery plot, casket, burial vault, or gravestone. 
Cremation, versus a traditional funeral with burial, is on the rise because of a number of factors. The cost to cremate someone is about one-third that of a traditional funeral. Cremation fees, possible transport and embalming fees may apply and can range anywhere from $800 to $1,000. The decision to handle the body without a funeral director mediating the process, taking the remains directly to a crematory can range from $100 to $300. This eliminates the option for a funeral or viewing.