When the mucus in the back of the throat becomes thick, it is natural to feel a need to clear the throat with coughing. Clearing your throat will help the phlegm loosen or break up in the back of the throat, giving way to the uncomfortable feeling.
Foods that help loosen mucus include spicy foods, hot chili peppers and horse radish are effective at loosening mucus. Drink plenty of warm liquids such as herbal teas to moisten the airways and break up mucus. Using a vaporiser or humidifier at night will help thin mucus (I use a vaporiser, both are good).
Although there are many foods and food groups that can cause mucus in the throat, there are also a multitude of foods that can help to relieve it. A spoonful of honey and ginger can help the body to get rid of excess mucus; this is a popular remedy for many sufferers.
Mucus is a thick fluid that can help lubricate your tissues and protect your mucus membranes from damage. It can be found in your nasal passages, throat, lungs, intestines, digestive system, urinary tract, reproductive tract and other body tissues.
Warm pureed soups of vegetables are a delicious and soothing way to remove mucus from the body. Turn up the heat with spices like garlic and pepper. The lungs lie just above the digestive track and the heat of these will aid in elimination.
Foods like watercress, garlic, onions, pickles, and lemons help reduce mucus production. Foods like cabbage, potatoes, and bananas might increase mucus production. Berries, leafy greens, broccoli, tomatoes, citrus fruits, and bell peppers are particularly rich in antioxidants.
Edited By: Stephanie Dawson. Foods that create mucus: • Dairy – Dairy products like milk, sour cream, yogurt, cheese, and ice cream are the primary source of mucus caused by food. Thick irritating phlegm is produced in your throat by these types of foods. It might also make the existing mucus thicker and harder.
Raw fruits and vegetables are fabulous mucus-cleansers. They help the body remove mucus and toxins, supplying vital nutrients in the correct balance for rejuvenation and healing. Since early childhood I was cursed with severe constipation and hemorrhoids; bowel movements were painful and difficult.