The Brazil current as represented by the Mariano Global Surface Velocity Analysis (MGSVA). The Brazil current is the western boundary current of the South Atlantic subtropical gyre. It transports warm water polewards. Near 22 S, the Brazil current splits; one component flows eastward and the other component hugs the coast and flows toward the southwest and interacts with the colder Malvinas Current. The transport of the Brazil Current is considered small when compared to that of the Gulf Stream, its counterpart in the Northern Atlantic. The problem when estimating transport of the BC is that in its northern region, it is shallow and closely confined to the continental shelf.
As the Brazil Current flows south of 24°S, its flow intensifies by about 5% per 100km, which is similar to the growth rate in the Gulf Stream, although transport values in the BC are considerably less (Peterson and Stramma, 1991). The transport of the Brazil Current is considered small when compared to that of the Gulf Stream, its counterpart in the Northern Atlantic. The problem when estimating transport of the BC is that in its northern region, it is shallow and closely confined to the continental shelf.
Falklands and Malvinas redirect here. For other uses, see Falklands (disambiguation) and Malvinas (disambiguation) . The Falkland Islands (/ˈfɔːlklənd/ ; Spanish: Islas Malvinas [malˈβinas]) are an archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean on the Patagonian Shelf. The Falkland Islands are a biogeographical part of the mild Antarctic zone, with strong connections to the flora and fauna of Patagonia in mainland South America. Land birds make up most of the Falklands' avifauna; 63 species breed on the islands, including 16 endemic species.
This is particularlynoticeable in the Indian Ocean and along the South Chinacoast, where currents are influenced to a marked degree bythe monsoons.3105. Southern Ocean CurrentsThe Southern Ocean has no meridional boundaries andits waters are free to circulate around the world. IntroductionA number of ocean currents flow with greatpersistence, setting up a circulation that continues withrelatively little change throughout the year. Because of theinfluence of wind in creating current, there is a relationshipbetween this oceanic circulation and the general circulationof the atmosphere.
The Malvinas (Falkland) Current is a branch of the Circumpolar Current and flows northward along the continental shelf of Argentina until it reaches the Brazil Current offshore the Rio de la Plata estuary (Legeckis and Gordon 1982, Garzoli 1993, Vivier and Provost 1999a). The along-shelf flow of the Malvinas Current is highly variable from year to year, and it does not appear to have an annual or even a semi-annual cycle. However, there is a suggestion of significant energy at periods of about 135 days (Vivier and Provost 1999a, 1999b).
The Falkland Islands are positioned in both the southern and western hemispheres. They're located in the South Atlantic Ocean, about 300 miles (483 km) east of the Argentina coastline. 
It is the northward flow component of the S. Atlantic subpolar gyre. The Malvinas current transports cold water along the coast of S. America and this water mixes with warmer waters of the Brazil current in an region known as the Brazil-Malvinas confluence. Click here for example plots of seasonal averages. The along-shelf flow of the Malvinas Current is highly variable from year to year, and it does not appear to have an annual or even a semi-annual cycle. However, there is a suggestion of significant energy at periods of about 135 days (Vivier and Provost 1999a, 1999b).
A map of all the large ocean currents of the world. All the world's currents on a continuous ocean map. An ocean current is a continuous movement of ocean water from one place to another. Ocean currents are created by wind, water temperature, salt content, and the gravity of the moon. The current's direction and speed depend on the shoreline and the ocean floor. One major example of an ocean current is the Gulf Stream in the Atlantic Ocean. Ocean currents can be found on the water surface and deeper down. 1  Currents on the surface often depend on wind. 2  They travel clockwise in the northern hemisphere. 3  They travel counterclockwise in the sou
The Brazil Current is a weak western boundary current carrying warm subtropical water, which runs south along the coast of Brazil from about 9°S to about 38°S and is generally confined to the upper 600m of the water column. The transport of the Brazil Current is considered small when compared to that of the Gulf Stream, its counterpart in the Northern Atlantic. The problem when estimating transport of the BC is that in its northern region, it is shallow and closely confined to the continental shelf.
The Falkland Islands, also called The Malvinas, are an archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean, located 300 miles (483 kilometres) from the coast of South America, 671 miles (1080 km) west of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands (Shag Rocks) , and 584 miles (940 km) north of Antarctica (Elephant Island) . The first settlement on the Falkland Islands, called Port Saint Louis, was founded by the French navigator and military commander Louis Antoine de Bougainville in 1764 on Berkeley Sound, in present-day Port Louis, East Falkland.