Definition of Occupational Therapy. Occupational therapy is a holistic, client-centered, occupation-based approach to life skill development. This dynamic health profession helps people whose lives have been altered by physical or mental disease, injury, or other health problems. 
Occupational therapists also focus much of their work on identifying and eliminating environmental barriers to independence and participation in daily activities. Occupational therapy is a client-centered practice that places emphasis on the progress towards the client's goals. Occupational therapists often work closely with professionals in physical therapy, speech therapy, nursing, social work, and the community.
Occupational therapy (OT) is the use of assessment and treatment to develop, recover, or maintain the daily living and work skills of people with a physical, mental, or cognitive disorder. Occupational therapists often work closely with professionals in physical therapy, speech therapy, nursing, social work, and the community.
occupational therapist a health care professional who provides services designed to restore self-care, work, and leisure skills to patients/clients who have specific performance incapacities or deficits that reduce their abilities to cope with the tasks of everyday living. The occupational therapist evaluates and treats problems arising from developmental deficits, physical illness or injury, emotional disorders, the aging process, and psychological or social disability.
Definition Occupation. In occupational therapy, occupations refer to the everyday activities that people do as individuals, in families and with communities to occupy time and bring meaning and purpose to life. Occupations include things people need to, want to and are expected to do. Definition of Occupational Therapy. Occupational therapy is a client-centred health profession concerned with promoting health and well being through occupation. The primary goal of occupational therapy is to enable people to participate in the activities of everyday life
Occupational therapist: A licensed health professional who is trained to evaluate patients with joint conditions, such as arthritis, to determine the impact the disease on their activities of daily living. 
A Definition of Occupational Therapy. Occupational therapy is a health profession whose goal is to help people achieve independence, meaning and satisfaction in all aspects of their lives. Occupational therapists: 1  Apply their specific knowledge to enable people to engage in activities of daily living that have personal meaning and value. 2  Develop, improve, sustain, or restore independence to any person who has an injury, illness, disability or psychological dysfunction.
Full Definition of OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY. : therapy based on engagement in meaningful activities of daily life (as self-care skills, education, work, or social interaction) especially to enable or encourage participation in such activities despite impairments or limitations in physical or mental functioning. occupational therapy. noun. Tweet. medical: treatment that helps people who have physical or mental problems learn to do the activities of daily life.
Medical Definition of OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST. : a person trained and licensed in the practice of occupational therapy. Dictionary: Definition of occupational therapist. What made you want to look up occupational therapist?