The IRS recommends keeping records for “3 years from the date you filed your original return or 2 years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later.” You should also keep records for three years if you owe additional tax and the situations described in sections 3 and 4 below don’t apply. If you file a return and claim a loss from worthless securities or take a deduction for a bad debt, you should keep your income tax papers for seven years.
If you've lost or discarded a tax return and later need a copy, don't worry. Copies of tax returns, all attachments and W-2 forms are generally available for seven years from the IRS and can be obtained by filing Form 4506, Request for Copy or Transcript of Tax Form. I find that in the case of tax returns, many people are afraid to discard them or confused as to how long they should keep them. The result is that they keep them all. One client told me he kept every tax return he filed going back over 30 years! Keeping all of your financial papers that long is not a good strategy.
Still, you'd be surprised at how much you can safely discard. Here is what you should keep and how long you should keep it. Three Years. Keep your federal and state income tax returns and related receipts and statements for at least three years. Six Years. If you may have under-reported income by 25 percent or more, then you'll need to keep tax returns and all related information for six years.
My rule: Keep records and tax returns for years that include atypical transactions (sales or donations of property) and irregular income (stock option exercises, trust income, etc.) for six years after the filing date of the return. Keep a 2005 tax return that includes reporting of irregular items until April 2012. Six Years. If you may have under-reported income by 25 percent or more, then you'll need to keep tax returns and all related information for six years.
In some cases, you may need to hang onto your records longer than three years. For instance, you should plan on keeping tax forms for retirement accounts such as IRAs until seven years after the account is completely wiped out. If you file a claim for a loss of worthless securities or bad debt deduction, you must keep records for seven years. Under the statute of limitations, if you do not file a claim for a refund that you are entitled to, you generally have the later of three years from the date you filed the original return or two years from the date you paid the tax, to file the claim.
The types of records you should keep are anything related to your income (e.g., W-2s, 1099s, bank and brokerage statements), expenses (e.g., receipts, canceled checks and invoices) and home-related records (e.g., purchase receipts, closing records, insurance records and proof of improvements). If you file a return and claim a loss from worthless securities or take a deduction for a bad debt, you should keep your income tax papers for seven years.
I would advise you to keep records and tax returns for the years that include out-of-the-ordinary transactions (sales or donations of property), and income from activities such as stock option exercises, trust income, etc., for six years after the filing date of the return. I find that in the case of tax returns, many people are afraid to discard them or confused as to how long they should keep them. The result is that they keep them all. One client told me he kept every tax return he filed going back over 30 years! Keeping all of your financial papers that long is not a good strategy.
Six Years. Keep your income tax papers for six years if you don’t report income that you should and this unreported amount exceeds 25 percent of the gross income that you did report. If you file a return and claim a loss from worthless securities or take a deduction for a bad debt, you should keep your income tax papers for seven years.
4. You do not file a return: Keep records indefinitely. 5. You file a claim for credit or refund after you file your return: Keep records for three years from the date you filed your original return or two years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later. 6. You file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction: Keep records for seven years
In most cases, you should plan on keeping tax returns along with any supporting documents (e.g., W-2s, mileage logs if you itemize, etc.) for a period of at least three years following the date you filed or the due date of your tax return, whichever is later. Under the statute of limitations, if you do not file a claim for a refund that you are entitled to, you generally have the later of three years from the date you filed the original return or two years from the date you paid the tax, to file the claim.