Bookmarks Toolbar-Display your favorite websites at the top of the Firefox window. Right-click on an empty section of the Tab Strip and select in the pop-up menu. On the menu bar, click, select, and then select. Firefox's Bookmarks toolbar gives you quick access to often-used bookmarks. This article describes how to use to Bookmarks Toolbar. For more information on bookmarks, see the Create bookmarks to save your favorite webpages article. To turn it on or back off: 1  Right-click on an empty section of the Tab Strip and select in the pop-up menu. 2  On the menu bar, click, select, and then select. 3  Click the menu button and choose Customize. 4  Click the dropdown menu at the bottom of the screen and select.
When you open MS Word, be sure to display the menu bar, standard toolbar, and formatting toolbar at the top of your screen on three rows. Follow these steps: 1  When you open MS Word, you will see a blank page. 2  Above the page, at the top of the MS Word screen, you will see the Menu bar. 1: MS Word Menu Bar. 1  In order for you to set up your page in the MLA format for an essay or research paper, you should see the menu bar and two toolbars below the menu bar at the top of your MS Word screen. 2  The first toolbar is known as the standard toolbar and the second as the formatting tool
The Toolbar appears at the top of your Internet Explorer browser window. Using the Toolbar search box and buttons, you can do all kinds of things: Find search terms faster. Start typing a word into the Toolbar search box. Toolbar Instant will automatically show you popular search results that begin with those letters. 
Show or hide the Bookmarks toolbar. The Bookmarks toolbar is hidden by default. To turn it on or back off: 1  Right-click on an empty section of the Tab Strip and select in the pop-up menu. 2  On the menu bar, click, select, and then select. 3  Click the menu button and choose Customize. 4  Click the dropdown menu at the bottom of the screen and select.
Fig. 1: MS Word Menu Bar. 1  In order for you to set up your page in the MLA format for an essay or research paper, you should see the menu bar and two toolbars below the menu bar at the top of your MS Word screen. 2  The first toolbar is known as the standard toolbar and the second as the formatting toolbar
3. Click the toolbar you want to display. If the toolbar you want is listed but isn't checked, click it to re-enable it. You may be asked to confirm that you want to display it, depending on the toolbar. 1  If you are missing your File, Edit, View, and Tools menu options, select Menu bar from the list. 2. Click the View menu. If you can't see the menu bar, press the Alt key. 3. Select Toolbars and then click the toolbar you want to enable. 1  If you are missing your File, Edit, View, and Tools menu options, select Menu bar from the list. 2  If you still can't see a toolbar that you installed yourself, read on
Instructions. Right click the toolbar in its current location on your Windows desktop. Make sure that the phrase Lock the taskbar is not checked. If it is checked, click it one time. This removes the check. Click with your left mouse button on the toolbar at the bottom of your desktop. Hold down your left mouse button. Drag your mouse cursor to the top of your monitor. The toolbar will go along with it. Release your mouse button to leave your toolbar at the top of the screen
On the top right of a toolbar is the Toolbar button &lpar;looks like a gray oval&rpar;. &NewLine; If you click this button once, the toolbar icons will collapse and become hidden. Clicking this button again will show the toolbar icons. You can also choose Show Toolbar from the View menu. 