As you know Order taking is a skillful art for any waiter. After proper greeting and seating a waiter needs to wait for the guest to take order. Today, we will learn how to take food order in restaurant through step by step instruction. Step-1: Observe your guest: 1  Be observant and use proper timing.
One of the key determinants of a customer's experience in a restaurant is the level of service offered by the waiting staff. If you are a waiter, your primary responsibility is to ensure that all your customers are happy and their needs are met. You must also have a pleasant disposition and possess the flexibility to to respond to a variety of demands from your customers.
Step-4: Take the Order: 1  During the ordering process, note down the number of guests and items ordered in a sequential order corresponding to the seats on your order pad. 2  Take order from the lady first follow by an older gentleman or a guest and the host last.
The first order a waitress usually takes is a drink order. She usually puts something on the table to indicate to other servers that the drink order has been taken. Depending on the individual restaurant’s procedure, this may mean putting down coasters or a cocktail napkin in front of each person at the table.
Take the first order from the female guests, if applicable. If there are no women at the table, take the order based on your restaurant's sequential system or from the male guest who seems most ready to order.
These are the steps on how to be a good server in a restaurant:1. Try to greet your table within 3-5 minutes. Try not to end up taking 8-10 minutes to greet a table, because that's when customers start to get irritated. If you do take longer than 5 minutes, do apologize.2. Make sure customers have utensils.
1 During the ordering process, note down the number of guests and items ordered in a sequential order corresponding to the seats on your order pad. 2  Take order from the lady first follow by an older gentleman or a guest and the host last.