From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lymph is the fluid that circulates throughout the lymphatic system. The lymph is formed when the interstitial fluid (the fluid which lies in the interstices of all body tissues) is collected through lymph capillaries. It is then transported through lymph vessels to lymph nodes before emptying ultimately into the right or the left subclavian vein, where it mixes back with blood. Since the lymph is derived from the interstitial fluid, its composition continually changes as the blood and the surrounding cells continually exchange substances with the interstitial fluid. Lymph returns proteins and excess interstitial fluid to the bloodstream.
The almost colourless fluid that bathes body tissues and is found in the lymphatic vessels that drain the tissues of the fluid that filters across the blood vessel walls from blood. Lymph carries antibodies and lymphocytes (white blood cells that help fight infection) that have entered the lymph nodes from the blood. When this fluid is drained from the tissues and collected by the lymphatic system, it is called lymph. The lymphatic system eventually returns the lymph to the blood, where it again becomes plasma. This movement of fluid through the body is described under circulatory system.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
The lymphatic system. The diagram shows the lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the other organs that make up the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is similar to the blood circulation. The lymph vessels branch through all parts of the body like the arteries and veins that carry blood.
Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands throughout the body. They are part of the lymph system, which carries fluid (lymph fluid), nutrients, and waste material between the body tissues and the bloodstream. The lymph system is an important part of the immune system, the body's defense system against disease. The lymph nodes filter lymph fluid as it flows through them, trapping bacteria, viruses, and other foreign substances, which are then destroyed by special white blood cells called lymphocytes
Lymph nodes and what they do. Lymph vessels route lymph fluid through nodes throughout the body. Lymph nodes are small structures that work as filters for harmful substances. They contain immune cells that can help fight infection by attacking and destroying germs that are carried in through the lymph fluid. Our bodies have a network of lymph vessels and lymph nodes. (Lymph is pronounced limf.) This network is a part of the body’s immune system. It collects fluid, waste material, and other things (like viruses and bacteria) that are in the body tissues, outside the bloodstream.
lymph. A clear, sometimes faintly yellow and slightly opalescent fluid that is collected from the tissues throughout the body, flows in the lymphatic vessels, and through the lymph nodes, and is eventually added to the venous blood circulation. When this fluid is drained from the tissues and collected by the lymphatic system, it is called lymph. The lymphatic system eventually returns the lymph to the blood, where it again becomes plasma. This movement of fluid through the body is described under circulatory system.
lymph. A clear, transparent, sometimes faintly yellow and slightly opalescent fluid that is collected from the tissues throughout the body, flows in the lymphatic vessels (through the lymph nodes), and is eventually added to the venous blood circulation. When this fluid is drained from the tissues and collected by the lymphatic system, it is called lymph. The lymphatic system eventually returns the lymph to the blood, where it again becomes plasma. This movement of fluid through the body is described under circulatory system.
The lymph is a clear or whitish fluid that flows through the lymph channels. It flows through the tiniest of the blood vessels and lymph channels called capillaries and bathe the cells in the tissues of the body. Like clean blood that flows in the arteries from the heart lymph also it carries oxygen and other nutrients. Lymph is clear or white fluid that travels through vessels, moves within tissues and work to keep all the parts of the body clean. After passing through the channels of the lymphatic system they drain into the lymph nodes.
Lymph is an alkaline fluid that originates as interstitial fluid in your body. In this context, an interstitial space is basically an empty space between tissue structures. Interstitial fluid flows in the space between and around tissues and cells. You might compare this space to the holes in a sponge. Lymph is an alkaline fluid of variable composition that originates as an interstitial fluid within your body's tissues. By providing a pathway for the 'downhill' movement of interstitial fluid, your lymphatic system prevents excess accumulation of tissue fluid and facilitates the delivery of nutrients to your cells.