Chromium oxide was discovered in 1797 by Louis-Nicholas Vauquelin, who prepared the metal itself in the following year. Starting from crocoite the procedure was to powder the mineral and to precipitate the lead out through its reaction with hydrochloric acid (HCl in water). The residue was chromium oxide, CrO 3. Heating this oxide in an oven in the presence of charcoal as a reducing agent gave the metal itself. Vauquelin also analysed an emerald from Peru and discovered that its green colour is because of the presence of the new element, chromium. In fact, the name chromium is from the Greek word  chroma  meaning  colour , so named because of the many different coloured compounds displayed by chromium. A year or two after Vauquelin's discovery, a German chemist named Tassaert working in Paris found chromium in an ore now called chromite. 
History Biography Geography Science Games Privacy. Chromium is the first element in the sixth column of the periodic table. It is classified as a transition metal. Chromium atoms have 24 electrons and 24 protons with the most abundant isotope having 28 neutrons. Chromium has four stable isotopes that occur in nature including 50 Cr, 52 Cr, 53 Cr, and 54 Cr with the majority of the chromium found in nature being 52 Cr.
Properties of chromium. Chromium is a transition metal in Group 6 on the Periodic Table of Elements. In its pure form, chromium is a steel-gray, lustrous hard metal that has a high polish. It has many compounds that are all colored. [See Periodic Table of the Elements ]. Of the compounds, the most important are the chromates of sodium and potassium; the dichromates; and potassium and ammonium chrome alums
Chromium is a chemical element with symbol Cr and atomic number 24. It is the first element in Group 6. It is a steely-gray, lustrous, hard and brittle metal which takes a high polish, resists tarnishing, and has a high melting point. Naturally occurring chromium is composed of three stable isotopes; 52 Cr, 53 Cr and 54 Cr with 52 Cr being the most abundant (83.789% natural abundance). 19 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 50 Cr with a half-life of (more than) 1.8 × 10 years, and 51 Cr with a half-life of 27.7 days.
Chromium was discovered as an element after it came to the attention of the Western world in the red crystalline mineral crocoite (lead(II) chromate), discovered in 1761 and initially used as a pigment. Louis Nicolas Vauquelin first isolated chromium metal from this mineral in 1797. Naturally occurring chromium is composed of three stable isotopes; 52 Cr, 53 Cr and 54 Cr with 52 Cr being the most abundant (83.789% natural abundance). 19 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 50 Cr with a half-life of (more than) 1.8 × 10 years, and 51 Cr with a half-life of 27.7 days.
Elements and Periodic Table History. Chromium was discovered by the French chemist Nicholas Louis Vauquelin at Paris in1798. He was intrigued by a bright red mineral that had been discovered in a Siberian gold mine in 1766 and was referred to as Siberian red lead. Chromium is an essential trace element for humans because it helps us to use glucose. However, it is poisonous in excess. We take in about 1 milligram a day. Foods such as brewer’s yeast, wheat germ and kidney are rich in chromium.
Vauquelin also analysed an emerald from Peru and discovered that its green colour is because of the presence of the new element, chromium. In fact, the name chromium is from the Greek word  chroma  meaning  colour , so named because of the many different coloured compounds displayed by chromium. Chromium around us. Chromium is an essential trace element and has a role in glucose metabolism. It seems to have an effect in the action of insulin. In anything other than trace amounts, chromium compounds should be regarded as highly toxic. Chromium is not found as the free metal in nature. The most important ore is chromite (FeCr 2 O 4) and this is found in Turkey, USA, South Africa, Albania, Finland, Iran, Madagascar, Russia, Southern Rhodesia, Transvaal, Cuba, Brazil, Japan, India, Pakistan, and the Philippines
Chromium is pronounced as KROH-mee-em. History and Uses: Chromium was discovered by Louis-Nicholas Vauquelin while experimenting with a material known as Siberian red lead, also known as the mineral crocoite (PbCrO 4), in 1797. He produced chromium oxide (CrO 3) by mixing crocoite with hydrochloric acid (HCl). Chromium can be polished to form a very shiny surface and is often plated to other metals to form a protective and attractive covering. Chromium is added to steel to harden it and to form stainless steel, a steel alloy that contains at least 10% chromium.
Potassium dichromate (K 2 Cr 2 O 7) is used in the tanning of leather while other chromium compounds are used as mordants, materials which permanently fix dyes to fabrics. Chromium compounds are also used to anodize aluminum, a process which coats aluminum with a thick, protective layer of oxide. Chromium can be polished to form a very shiny surface and is often plated to other metals to form a protective and attractive covering. Chromium is added to steel to harden it and to form stainless steel, a steel alloy that contains at least 10% chromium.