Kununurra is a town in far northern Western Australia located at the eastern extremity of the Kimberley Region approximately 37 kilometres (23 mi) from the border with the Northern Territory. Kununurra was initiated to service the Ord River Irrigation Scheme. Kununurra is the largest town in Western Australia north of Broome, with the closest town being Wyndham, 100 kilometres (62 mi) away. Kununurra is 3,040 kilometres (1,889 mi) from Perth via the Great Northern Highway. The town is situated in among the scenic hills and ranges of the far north-east Kimberley Region, having an abundance of fresh water, conserved by the Ord River Diversion dam and the main Ord River Dam.
Kununurra is a small town built on big dreams. In a remote corner of the vast Kimberley region of Western Australia, its unaffected pastoral feel makes a comfortable base from which to explore the majestic natural attractions in the rugged surrounding landscape. Kununurra's isolation and distance from the capital cities haven't stopped it from having some pretty decent dining options. Most of the better eating is found at hotel restaurants where menus feature modern Australian cuisine, usually with a Kimberley style twist.
Kununurra is an inland town situated in the rugged Kimberley area of Australia's North West tourist region. Kununurra is surrounded by the spectacular scenery of the Ord River and Mirima National Park. Close to Lake Argyle and the state border with the Northern Territory. Kununurra, meaning big water in the local Aboriginal language, is a relatively new town, founded in 1958 as part of the Ord River Irrigation scheme, one of the largest undertaken in Australia's history.
Whereis WA Kununurra. Located in the far north-east of the State‚ Kununurra was built on the shores of Lake Kununurra in 1963 as the administrative centre for the huge Ord River Irrigation Project. The project harnesses the rivers of the Kimberley in order to irrigate a variety of crops in this otherwise irregularly watered region. Kununurra is truly remote‚ the nearest city being Darwin 855km north-east‚ but distance is no barrier to the many tourists who come to this colourful region. Kununurra is the major centre for the Argyle Diamond Mine‚ the largest in the world.
Ord River sandalwood plantation near Kununurra. The Ord River is a 320-kilometre (200 mi) long river in the Kimberley region of Western Australia. The river's catchment covers 46,100 square kilometres (17,799 sq mi).
Original name of this place (including diacritics) is Kununurra, it lies in Wyndham-East Kimberley, Western Australia, Australia and its geographical coordinates are 15° 46' 0 South, 128° 44' 0 East. Google Earth – visit Kununurra. Welcome to the Kununurra Google Earth 3D map site! Original name of this place (including diacritics) is Kununurra, it lies in Wyndham-East Kimberley, Western Australia, Australia and its geographical coordinates are 15° 46' 0 South, 128° 44' 0 East. rotate | small | medium | large.
Kununurra. Kununurra, in spite of all it’s apparent isolation, is an interesting modern town which came into existence in the early 1960s as a construction centre for the Ord River Scheme and the creation of the majestic Lake Argyle. 
Map of Kununurra, WA 6743. Located in the far north-east of the State‚ Kununurra was built on the shores of Lake Kununurra in 1963 as the administrative centre for the huge Ord River Irrigation Project. The project harnesses the rivers of the Kimberley in order to irrigate a variety of crops in this otherwise irregularly watered region. Kununurra is truly remote‚ the nearest city being Darwin 855km north-east‚ but distance is no barrier to the many tourists who come to this colourful region. Kununurra is the major centre for the Argyle Diamond Mine‚ the largest in the world.