Hypochromic anemia. Hypochromic anemia is a generic term for any type of anemia in which the red blood cells (erythrocytes) are paler than normal. (Hypo-refers to less, and chromic means color .) A normal red blood cell will have an area of pallor in the center of it; it is biconcave disk shaped. In hypochromic cells, this area of central pallor is increased. This decrease in redness is due to a disproportionate reduction of red cell hemoglobin (the pigment that imparts the red color) in proportion to the volume of the cell.
A series of structurally related molecules in a substitution series can also show a hypsochromic shift. Hypsochromic shift is a phenomenon seen in molecular spectra, not atomic spectra-it is thus more common to speak of the movement of the peaks in the spectrum rather than lines. Because the blue color in the visible spectrum has a shorter wavelength than most other colors, this effect is also commonly called a blue shift. This can occur because of a change in environmental conditions: for example, a change in solvent polarity will result in solvatochromism.
On the nature of DNA hyperchromic effect. D'Abramo M(1), Castellazzi CL, Orozco M, Amadei A. Author information: (1)CINECA-Roma, via dei Tizii, 6, 00185, Roma, Italy. mdabramo.res@gmail.com. A combined theoretical-experimental study of the hyperchromic effect as occurring in the denaturation of a double stranded polyA-polyT is presented. 
hyperchromic effect. Definitions: 1. an increase in absorptivity (or extinction) at a particular wavelength of light by a solution or substance due to structural changes in a molecule. The definition information for hyperchromic effect is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
Definition [edit]. Difference in absorbance of ultraviolet light between single stranded and double stranded DNA. Hypochromicity describes a material’s decreasing ability to absorb light. Hyperchromicity is the material’s increasing ability to absorb light. The Hypochromic Effect describes the decrease in the absorbance of ultraviolet light in a double stranded DNA compared to its single stranded counterpart. 
(December 2009). Hypsochromic shift is a change of spectral band position in the absorption, reflectance, transmittance, or emission spectrum of a molecule to a shorter wavelength (higher frequency). Because the blue color in the visible spectrum has a shorter wavelength than most other colors, this effect is also commonly called a blue shift. This can occur because of a change in environmental conditions: for example, a change in solvent polarity will result in solvatochromism.
Medical Definition of HYPERCHROMIC. 1. : of, relating to, or characterized by hyperchromia. 2.
Hypochromic anemia was historically known as chlorosis or green sickness for the distinct skin tinge sometimes present in patients, in addition to more general symptoms such as a lack of energy, shortness of breath, dyspepsia, headaches, a capricious or scanty appetite and amenorrhea. In hypochromic cells, this area of central pallor is increased. This decrease in redness is due to a disproportionate reduction of red cell hemoglobin (the pigment that imparts the red color) in proportion to the volume of the cell.
Related Terms & Definitions. Here are some related terms and definitions we found for this term. » 1  Shielding Effect. » 2  Distomer. » 3  Zeeman effect. » 4  Leveling Effect. » 5  Black Carbon. » 6  hypochromic effect. » 7  Tyndall Effect. increase in absorption intensity; if structural modification. leads to an increase in the molar extinction coefficient for a particular. chromophoric group it is said to have brought about a hyperchromic. effect.
Definition of hyperchromic effect. 1) an. increase in absorption intensity; if structural modification. leads to an increase in the molar extinction coefficient for a particular. chromophoric group it is said to have brought about a hyperchromic. effect.