The simplest form of carbohydrates are monosaccharides. Monosaccharides are the simplest units of carbohydrates and the simplest form of sugar. They are the building blocks of more complex carbohydrates such as disaccharides and polysaccharides. Physically, they are usually colorless, can dissolve in water and have the appearance of a crystal-like substance. 
Monosaccharides. Monosaccharides are the basic building blocks of carbohydrates. The two most common simple sugars are glucose, which is both made in the body and found in foods, and fructose. Glucose and fructose combine to make sucrose, or common table sugar. Honey is a rich source of the monosaccharide fructose. A monosaccharide, also called simple sugar, is a carbohydrate that cannot be broken down into other carbohydrates. The most common monosaccharides provided by foods are glucose, fructose and galactose.
Monosaccharides such as glucose can be linked together in condensation reactions. For example, sucrose (table sugar) is formed from one molecule of glucose and one of fructose, as shown below. Molecules composed of two monosaccharides are called disaccharides. 
The two main categories of sugars are monosaccharides and disaccharides. They are often described together with polysaccharides, and sometimes also oligosaccarides, due to the chemical relationship between these types of carbohydrates: 1  Categories of sugars 2  : Monosaccharides are simple (unit) sugars. 3  Disaccharides consist of molecules whose form is that of.
Share. Monosaccharides are the simplest forms of sugars or carbohydrates. These are sugars which cannot be broken down into a simpler sugar by hydrolysis. Being asked to name 3 monosacchararides (or more) is a common chemistry and biochemistry question. Here is a list of monosaccharides. 
Disaccharides are sugars or carbohydrates made by linking two monosaccharides. This is a list of some disaccharides, including the monosaccharides they are made from and foods containing them. Sucrose, maltose, and lactose are the most familiar disaccharides, but there are others. 1  sucrose (saccharose). 2  glucose + fructose. 3  Sucrose is table sugar.
Most sugars are disaccharides -- made of two molecules -- and starches and fibers are polysaccharides, made of multiple molecules attached together. Monosaccharides, or carbohydrates made of a single molecule, are not as common but can also be found in some foods. 
Disaccharides are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed, a process known as dehydration reaction. For example; milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas the sugar from sugar cane and sugar beets (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose. The most common types of disaccharides— sucrose, lactose, and maltose —have twelve carbon atoms, with the general formula C 12 H 22 O 11. The differences in the disaccharides are due to atomic arrangements within the molecule.
Some monosaccharides have a sweet taste. Examples of monosaccharides include glucose (dextrose), fructose (levulose) and galactose. Monosaccharides are the building blocks of disaccharides (such as sucrose and lactose) and polysaccharides (such as cellulose and starch). With few exceptions (e.g., deoxyribose), monosaccharides have this chemical formula: C x (H 2 O) y, where conventionally x ≥ 3. Monosaccharides can be classified by the number x of carbon atoms they contain: diose (2) triose (3) tetrose (4), pentose (5), hexose (6), heptose (7), and so on.
Like monosaccharides, disaccharides are soluble in water. Three common references are sucrose, lactose, and maltose. Disaccharide is one of the four chemical groupings of carbohydrates (monosaccharide, disaccharide, oligosaccharide, and polysaccharide). The most common types of disaccharides— sucrose, lactose, and maltose —have twelve carbon atoms, with the general formula C 12 H 22 O 11. The differences in the disaccharides are due to atomic arrangements within the molecule.