Paramecia feed on microorganisms like bacteria, algae, and yeasts. To gather food, the Paramecium uses its cilia to sweep prey organisms, along with some water, through the oral groove, and into the mouth opening. 
Paramecium aurelia are unicellular organisms belonging to the genus Paramecium of the phylum Ciliophora. They are covered in cilia which help in movement and feeding. Paramecium can reproduce sexually, asexually, or by the process of endomixis. 
Now look at the still microscope image below and see if you can pick out the various paramecium parts. Image courtesy: BioMEDIA ASSOCIATES The paramecium, genus of protozoa of the phylum Ciliophora, is often called slipper animalcules because of their slipper-like shape. Paramecia are unicellular organisms usually less than 0.25 mm (0.01 in) in length and covered with minute hair-like projections called cilia. The food goes through the cell mouth into the gullet. When there is enough food in it so that it has reached a certain size it breaks away and forms a food vacuole. The food vacuole travels through the cell, through the back end first. As it moves along enzymes from the cytoplasm enter the vacuole and digest it.
Pratt. It may be difficult to see in the pictures, but Paramecium have tiny hair-like things, called cilia, all around the outside of their cell. Cilia are important, because they are how Paramecium move. By beating the cilia back and forth, the Paramecium can move through the water. Protists with cilia, such as Paramecium, move much faster than other protists. Like other protists, Paramecium usually attach themselves to the bottom of the pond or stream, or to a plant. Sometimes they swarm.. That means they all let go and swim around until they find a new place to attach. Single-celled means that a paramecium has only one cell for its entire body. Most plants and animals have more cells than you can count. The inside of a paramecium is a jelly-like fluid called protoplasm.
Paramecium. Paramecium are single celled eukaryotes, reminiscent of a football in shape, that belong to the group of microorganisms known as the Protozoa. The protozoan inhabits freshwater bodies such as ponds. The organism is useful as a teaching tool for light microscopy. The paramecium has an external oral groove lined with cilia and leading to a mouth pore and gullet; food (typically smaller organisms, such as bacteria) is digested in food vacuoles. There are also an anal pore, two contractile vacuoles that regulate the water content of the cell, and two nuclei.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Paramecium look like little peanuts or slippers, with one end coming to a point. They are very tiny, (about 0.02 in) and you will need to look under a microscope to see one, and it is very difficult as they move quickly. A paramecium looks like germs but only different. It has a dot in the middle that is were the baby paramecium live till the are born. They sometimes come in red or green like … Christmas colors. The Chief is always gray and also bigger. Each paramecium has a baby every day.
A paramecium is a small one celled (unicellular) living organism that can move, digest food, and reproduce. They belong to the kingdom of Protista, which is a group (family) of similar living micro-organisms. Micro-organism means they are a very small living cell. The food goes through the cell mouth into the gullet. When there is enough food in it so that it has reached a certain size it breaks away and forms a food vacuole. The food vacuole travels through the cell, through the back end first. As it moves along enzymes from the cytoplasm enter the vacuole and digest it.
A paramecium is unicellular and moves by using cilia. Cilia are short, hair-like structures that are found on the surface of the organism. Cilia have three uses: 1.movement, 2.capturing food, 3. sensing the environment. When you observe the paramecium it may look like it only has cilia on part of its cell.