If the water temperature in your house varies considerably from day to day, then you need to install a heater in your tank. Fancy goldfish varieties require a water temperature between 60 o F(15 o C) and 75 o F(24 o C). Water temperature is also very important when breeding goldfish. Goldfish are classified as cold water fish and can live in an unheated aquarium at a temperature comfortable to humans. However, rapid changes in temperature can kill them. Maintain a steady temperature. The immune system of fish gets compromised below 50 o F(10 o C).
Ideally, you should keep goldfish aquarium water between 68 and 72 degrees Fahrenheit. Temperatures slightly outside this range will usually not cause a goldfish to instantly die. However, lower temperatures may cause a goldfish to hibernate -- particularly low temperatures, below 50 degrees, can kill goldfish. They need water warmer than goldfish need. While some tropical species' ideal temperature range may overlap with the upper range for goldfish, water in a fish tank with both goldfish and tropical fish will be either too warm for the goldfish or too cold for the tropical fish.
Goldfish are considered cold-water fish, but although they can survive a wide range of temperatures, that does not mean they are happy or healthy in cold water. Goldfish can survive temperatures from forty degrees to one hundred six degrees, but the extremes will kill the goldfish if th e exposure lasts too long. In situations such as purchasing a goldfish in a store at seventy degrees, to place it in a pond outdoors, with a temperature of forty, it may take days or weeks of careful preparation to avoid a high chance of death. If the water is too cold, there are various heaters and thermostats available for aquariums.
Goldfish in an aquarium are influenced by the temperature of the water, just like they are in ponds. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Goldfish are cold-water fish and can withstand a wide variety of different temperatures, both in aquarium settings and in outdoor ponds. Room temperature is fine for the goldfish, keeping in mind that if the temperature in the room goes up past 90 degrees, so will the temperature of the water.
In terms of a minimum temperature, goldfish can survive in water that is close to freezing, however, you should really keep your tank temperature several degrees above this in order to encourage strong growth. The most important thing is that your tank temperature does not change suddenly. Therefore, to encourage your goldfish to lay eggs, you should lower the temperature of your tank in the winter months to between 10°C/50°F and 12°C/54°F. Then, when you want to induce breeding, gradually raise the temperature of the water to between 20°C/68°F and 23°C/74°F
Allow the water temperature to change as the seasons change. While goldfish don't like temperatures over 75°F (24°C), they do seem to like seasonal variations where the temperature falls to the high 50s or 60s (15-20°c) in the winter. 
Temperatures for goldfish are a surprisingly complex issue. Goldfish are technically cold-water fish. However, just because goldfish can survive a wide range of temperatures does not mean they are healthy or happy at those temperatures. Goldfish in the wild, so to speak, can survive temperature ranges of forty to one hundred six degrees.
Proper Goldfish Water Temperatures Warmer water can have a number of effects on goldfish in ponds and in aquariums.Stephen M. MeyerQ. I have a question about the proper temperature for€fancy goldfish aquariums. 
Their body temperature is determined by the temperature of the water. This means that goldfish are at the mercy of the water temperature to regulate critical body functions. Simple functions such as locomotion are affected by water temperature. Goldfish in cool ponds move more slowly than goldfish in very warm ponds. Fancy goldfish in water that is 50 degrees Fahrenheit, are almost catatonic. Their metabolic processes such as digestion, respiration and immune response, are directly tied to the Goldfish water temperature. In situations such as purchasing a goldfish in a store at seventy degrees, to place it in a pond outdoors, with a temperature of forty, it may take days or weeks of careful preparation to avoid a high chance of death. If the water is too cold, there are various heaters and thermostats available for aquariums.