From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A segregated portfolio company (or SPC), sometimes referred to as a protected cell company, is a company which segregates the assets and liabilities of different classes (or sometimes series) of shares from each other and from the general assets of the SPC. 
A protected cell company is a single legal entity, but the company is made up of individual “protected cells”. It has a “core” capital (the ordinary share capital provided by the owners). Each cell has its own additional capital (usually redeemable preference shares) provided by the client using that cell. Dixcart is able to introduce suitable clients to a protected cell company specializing in captive insurance-Managed Risk Insurance PCC Limited (MRI).
A cell company is a company that has within it one or more cells for the purpose of segregating and protecting the cellular assets and liabilities of the company. The purpose of such an arrangement is to effectively 'ringfence' the assets (and thus liabilities) of each cell, and the core of the company. 
Incorporated Cell Company and Protected Cell Company. A company or individual can incorporate its own cell company by following a process similar to that for standard captive insurance companies. A cell company has in place core capital, board of directors, management, accounting systems and procedures and auditing. It's purpose therefore is to facilitate easy access to their own self-insurance captive through one or more cells that it may create. This enables multiple cell users to operate different businesses through their own incorporated cell with its own legal entity, isolating the assets and risks attached to each business from other cell user(s). Therefore should anything adverse happen to one cell, the other cells' assets are protected.
DEFINITION of 'Protected Cell Company (PCC)'. A corporate structure in which a single legal entity is comprised of a core and several cells that have separate assets and liabilities. The protected cell company, or PCC, has a similar design to a hub and spoke, with the central core organization linked to individual cells. Each cell is independent of each other and of the company’s core, but the entire unit is still a single legal entity. Next Up
Definition. A company which separates it business into protected cells through a segregated portfolio in which the assets and liabilities of different classes are separated from the main assets of the company. This limits damage from litigation and financial impacts to a single cell and protects the core business. 
8 I. Introduction II. The Protected Cell Company in a Nutshell 2.1 The Captive Insurance Companies and the Rent-a-Captive Schemes: a background 2.2 The Protected Cell Company Explained 8 III. The Protected Cell Company: a new form of investment fund IV. 
A protected cell company operates with two distinct groups: a single core company and an unlimited number of cells. It is governed by a single board of directors, which is responsible for the management of the PCC as a whole. The protected cell company, or PCC, has a similar design to a hub and spoke, with the central core organization linked to individual cells.
An ICC is a legal entity whose core assets are segregated and protected from each of the incorporated cells of the company. An ICC is a corporate vehicle, enabling its users to ring-fence their individual assets and liabilities in their own Incorporated Cell (IC) that is created by incorporation by the core company. This enables multiple cell users to operate different businesses through their own incorporated cell with its own legal entity, isolating the assets and risks attached to each business from other cell user(s). Therefore should anything adverse happen to one cell, the other cells' assets are protected.
A Protected Cell Company (PCC) is one legal entity divided into the Core and multiple Cells. Separately identifiable Cells are created and owned by the same or separate cell users under. which the assets and liabilities of each cell are legally segregated from each other under statute. 