Eriophorum cotton grass can grow up to 12 inches in height. It is a slender creeping grass with flat leaf blades that bear rough margins. The plant is riparian and can even grow in up to 2 inches of water. Flowers are at the terminal ends of stalks and appear as fluffy balls of cotton – hence the common name. Facts About Cotton Grass Growing. Common cotton grass prefers moist soil with high acidity. Common cotton grass will grow well in loam, sand or even clay soils. However, it thrives in peaty soil and boggy locations and is a good choice for growing around a water feature or pond.
Eriophorum (cottongrass, cotton-grass or cottonsedge) is a genus of flowering plants in the family Cyperaceae, the sedge family. They are found throughout the arctic, subarctic and temperate portions of the Northern Hemisphere in acid bog habitats, being particularly abundant in Arctic tundra regions. 
In narrow-leaved cotton grass (Eriophorum angustifolium) several flowerheads erupt among narrow leaf-like bracts from the top of a stem that is 20 to 80 cm (8 to 20 in.) tall. Flower stalk and head may reach a combined length of 8 cm (3 in.). Its bristles are a delightful tawny brown. Several species of cotton grass occur throughout British Columbia. Of these, narrow-leaved cotton grass is widely encountered in open acidic wetlands, especially in northern muskeg, and at the edge of ponds and slow-flowing streams.
It is also known as cotton candy grass or bog grass. This plant loves to grow in bogs, conifer swamps and marshes. You can find it in Tundra, Arctic as well as Alaska. It is a common member of the tundra biome. Cotton candy grass belongs to the Cypraceae family. You can collect the seeds by allowing the seed heads to dry on the plant. Then remove the seed heads and collect seeds. Adaptations. Cotton grass in tundra is able to survive when other trees fail to flourish. This is because of certain a
This is cotton grass that is not a grass actually. These are sedges, or in simple words, a marsh plant. There are about 25 species of this plant that grow in soft and watery soil. You can collect the seeds by allowing the seed heads to dry on the plant. Then remove the seed heads and collect seeds. Adaptations. Cotton grass in tundra is able to survive when other trees fail to flourish. This is because of certain a
Habitat. Cotton grass occurs in the U.S. throughout a broad range that spans from south and central Oregon through northern New Mexico, the Great Lakes region and New York. It can also be found further south in North Carolina and Tennessee. Culture. Cotton grass grows in acidic, wet soil, preferably at the edge of a pond or other water feature. It may even be grown directly in the water at a shallow depth of less than 2 inches. The Royal Horticultural Society recommends the plant for a full sun location that faces south or west
(Eriophorum angustifolium). Common cotton-grass © Beth Newman/Plantlife. Fluffy, cotton-like flower and seed heads give this distinctive plant its name. However, as a member of the sedge family, its technically not a grass at all. 