Varying Factors. Your dog's digestion rate isn't affected by his size as much as by other factors, including the type of food you give him, the amount of exercise he gets, the amount of water he drinks and more. For example, an average dog -- big or small -- takes between four and six hours to digest canned wet food. Digesting dry kibble, on the other hand, may take between eight and 10 hours. Small dogs don't always digest faster or slower than big dogs. Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Dog digestion doesn't differ. Big dogs and small ones digest food at the same rate. The fact is, your dog's digestion times are more likely to be influenced by what you feed him than by his size.
Similarly, the time that it will take for your dog to digest his food also depends upon what type of food he eats. Generally speaking, raw food and canned food will move through his system faster than dry food; it typically takes between 4 and 6 hours for a dog to process a meal's worth of canned food. On the other hand, it may take as many as 8 to 10 hours for the same dog to process dry food completely.
A dog's stomach will work on breaking down food for roughly eight hours before passing it into the small intestine. End of the Line The broken-down food will remain in the small intestine for up to about two days, depending on how difficult it is to break down further. Simple food, such as corn, will pass in a matter of a few hours, but bone or more complex material takes quite a bit longer. We may think of dogs as carnivores, but because of their powerful digestive acids, they can eat almost anything. A human who picks something off the floor might be in danger of bacterial infection because our digestive system is not as powerful and food tends to take longer to digest.
According to the American Kennel Club, the typical dog has one or two bowel movements every day. The amount of time between eating and passing a bowel movement depends on a variety of factors -- for example, some dogs digest wet food faster than dry kibbles, and can't hold it as long because their stools are looser. The amount of time it takes food to travel through your dog depends on multiple factors. The biggest one is the type of food your dog eats -- particularly, its quality and selection of ingredients and its fiber content. Factors like exercise also determine how long it takes for your dog to pass a bowel movement.
Allow your dog approximately 10-15 minutes to go to the bathroom. If your dog doesn't produce, take your dog inside and cage them again. If your dog does produce results allow her some uncrated time as a reward before crating or containing the dog again. If your dog didn't go to the bathroom, take your dog out again about 30 minutes later and repeat this until your dog goes. Praise your dog profusely when your dog succeeds and is on the leash. This will teach your dog that it needs to go when you take your dog out and not play around first
Dogs who eat high-fiber diets may have to go more quickly, as can those getting a lot of exercise. Generally, it takes between seven and 10 hours for a dog to digest food, but the many variables mean that only your vet can tell you how long it should be taking. The amount of time it takes food to travel through your dog depends on multiple factors. The biggest one is the type of food your dog eats -- particularly, its quality and selection of ingredients and its fiber content. Factors like exercise also determine how long it takes for your dog to pass a bowel movement.
15-30 minutes for food. 10 minutes for just water. It actually takes much longer to digest food...closer to 10-12 hours for most dogs, about half that for puppies. You may notice your dog needs to go to the bathroom 15-30 minutes after eating, but that's just them relieving themselves of waste from a previous meal. 
When we chew our food, we also produce saliva, which contains an enzyme that helps break down the food before it gets to our stomach. For a dog, which will swallow whole large pieces of raw meat and crushed bone, all of the work has to be done in the stomach. We may think of dogs as carnivores, but because of their powerful digestive acids, they can eat almost anything. A human who picks something off the floor might be in danger of bacterial infection because our digestive system is not as powerful and food tends to take longer to digest.
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. The average transit time through just the large intestine (colon) was 40 hours, with significant difference between men and women: 33 hours for men, 47 hours for women.