To South Africans the Braai is as important an implement in the household as an oven is to us Brits. Simply put, a Braai is a wood or charcoal fuelled barbecue, but more than that it is an incredibly versatile and exciting way to cook which provides a great social hub for a gathering or celebration! 
Show All Items. (Or how to barbeque meat for the rest of us). To braai or barbeque (Bar-B-Q) meat is a South African tradition. We usually do it once or twice a week, probably more. It's a chance to get your friends and/or family together, sip some wine or down a couple of cold ones. In this Instructable, I am going to show you how, with a little preparation and some scientific genius, you can braai like an expert and serve up the most succulent meat. What you will need: Some red meat, preferably rump, fillet or sirloin.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Braai is the South African word for barbecue, plural braaie, and refers to a meal cooked over an open fire, usually outdoors. Originally it was derived from an Afrikaans word, braaivleis, meaning grilled meat, but it is now a universally used term in South Africa. A regular South African braai will usually include the cooking of boerewors, which is traditional thick sausage and meat such as steak or sosaties, a type of kebab. Chicken pieces may also be braaied, often with a marinade
If you are a South African, you definitely know the answer to that question. So you probably don’t need to read this. If, as a South African citizen, you don’t know what a braai is, you should not have been given that citizenship in the first place. However, for those of you that don’t know what a braai is, here is Wikipedia’s description of it: “The word braaivleis is Afrikaans for “roasted meat.”
The word braai comes from the word braaivleis, which is Afrikaans for roasted meat. Braai means barbecue and vleis means meat.. The word is pronounced “bry” and although it originated with the Afrikaans, the word and social custom has been adopted by many ethnic cultures within Southern Africa. A braai revolves around the fire, and the food. The food is cooked on (as the name of the gathering would suggest) a braai, which is basically a grill. But you won’t find gas on this grill.
The “Bring & Braai”. Similar to a potluck party, this is a grand social event (but still casual and laid-back) where family and friends converge on a picnic spot or someone’s home (normally the garden or verandah) with their own meat, salad, or side dish in hand. Meats are the star of the South African braai. So you probably don’t need to read this. If, as a South African citizen, you don’t know what a braai is, you should not have been given that citizenship in the first place. However, for those of you that don’t know what a braai is, here is Wikipedia’s description of it:
Noun [edit]. braai ‎(plural braais). ( 1 South Africa) A barbecue (grill) , especially an open outdoor grill built specifically for the purpose of braaing. ( 2 South Africa) A social meeting, including the braaing of meat; a cookout. 
1 Just outside the pub, in Quartz Street, is The Braai & Meat, a small outdoor restaurant, with happy customers tucking into pap and braaied meat. 2  They covered topics such as measures to take when storing food at room temperature, and how to handle and braai meat in open areas to ensure that food is not contaminated. 1 A braai is like a barbecue, only without the potato salad. 2  I like to keep my food quite traditional, the only time that I use spices is when I make a braai, when I add piri piri and curry powder to fresh fish or mutton.