The Hadley cell, named after George Hadley, is a tropical atmospheric circulation which features rising motion near the equator, poleward flow 10–15 kilometers above the surface, descending motion in the subtropics, and equatorward flow near the surface. Mechanism [edit]. The major driving force of atmospheric circulation is solar heating, which on average is largest near the equator and smallest at the poles.
Atmospheric circulation is a large-scale movement of masses of air. The origin of these processes is the sun's radiation. The sun waves radiate the short-wave radiation. The earth absorbs only a part of this energy. The other part is radiated back to the atmosphere and to the universe. The back radiation is long-waved. 
Atmospheric Circulation. Atmospheric circulation is a complex and fascinating system of movements that profoundly affects life around the world. One consequence of this complex atmospheric circulation is that the composition of air stays well-mixed, so that plants and animals always have access to the gases they need. The atmosphere also moves energy from the equator to the poles to help alleviate the imbalance in incoming energy from the Sun.
(June 2008). Highly idealised depiction of the global circulation on Earth. Atmospheric circulation is the large-scale movement of air, and the means (together with the smaller ocean circulation) by which thermal energy is distributed on the surface of the Earth. The large-scale structure of the atmospheric circulation varies from year to year, but the basic climatological structure remains fairly constant.
Atmospheric circulation is the large-scale movement of air, and the means by which thermal energy is distributed on the surface of the Earth. The large-scale structure of the atmospheric circulation varies from year to year, but the basic climatological structure remains fairly constant. 
Photo by: Hynek Kalista. Atmospheric circulation is the movement of air at all levels of the atmosphere over all parts of the planet. The driving force behind atmospheric circulation is solar energy, which heats the atmosphere with different intensities at the equator, the middle latitudes, and the poles. 
General Circulation of the Atmosphere body. The circulation of wind in the atmosphere is driven by the rotation of the earth and the incoming energy from the sun. Wind circulates in each hemisphere in three distinct cells which help transport energy and heat from the equator to the poles. The winds are driven by the energy from the sun at the surface as warm air rises and colder air sinks. The warm surface conditions result in locally low pressure. The warm air rises at the equator producing clouds and causing instability in the atmosphere. This instability causes thunderstorms to develop and release large amounts of latent heat.
The circulation cell closest to the equator is called the Hadley cell. Winds are light at the equator because of the weak horizontal pressure gradients located there. The warm surface conditions result in locally low pressure. The warm air rises at the equator producing clouds and causing instability in the atmosphere. This instability causes thunderstorms to develop and release large amounts of latent heat.
Atmospheric circulation is the global movement of the air, distributing the heat received from solar radiation from warmer to cooler regions. If the Earth did not rotate on its axis and had a smooth and uniform surface, hot air would rise at the equator and flow towards the poles. Seasonal shifts in atmospheric circulation are caused by the tilt of the Earth’s axis. As the sun’s direct rays seasonally move north and south of the equator, circulation patterns alter.