Ovulation is the release of egg from the ovaries. In humans, this event occurs when the de Graaf's follicles rupture and release the secondary oocyte ovarian cells. After ovulation, during the luteal phase, the egg will be available to be fertilized by sperm. In addition, the uterine lining (endometrium) is thickened to be able to receive a fertilized egg. If no conception occurs, the uterine lining as well as blood will be shed during menstruation.
Ovulation is one part of the female menstrual cycle whereby a mature ovarian follicle (part of the ovary) discharges an egg (also known as an ovum, oocyte, or female gamete). It is during this process that the egg travels down the fallopian tube where it may be met by a sperm and become fertilized.
For sex to result in a pregnancy, a woman has to go through ovulation. Part of the monthly menstrual cycle, ovulation happens when an egg, or ovum, becomes available for fertilization by a sperm cell. During ovulation, an egg moves from the ovaries (the organs that produce eggs) into the fallopian tubes.
During ovulation, the walls of the uterus also thicken to prepare for a fertilized egg. But if the egg is not fertilized, the uterus sheds that lining, causing the monthly bleeding of a menstrual period. Many people mistakenly believe ovulation always happens exactly 14 days after a woman's last period.
As it reaches maturity, the egg is released by the ovary where it enters the fallopian tube to make its way towards waiting sperm and the uterus. The lining of the uterus has thickened to prepare for the fertilized egg. If no conception occurs, the uterine lining, as well as blood, will be shed.
Knowledge center. Ovulation is one part of the female menstrual cycle whereby a mature ovarian follicle (part of the ovary) discharges an egg (also known as an ovum, oocyte, or female gamete). It is during this process that the egg travels down the fallopian tube where it may be met by a sperm and become fertilized.
In humans, ovulation occurs about midway through the menstrual cycle, after the follicular phase. The few days surrounding ovulation (from approximately days 10 to 18 of a 28 day cycle), constitute the most fertile phase.