The name comes from a French term for the tonka bean, coumarou, one of the sources from which coumarin was first isolated as a natural product in 1820. It has a sweet odor, readily recognised as the scent of new-mown hay, and has been used in perfumes since 1882. Coumarin is subject to restrictions on its use in perfumery, as some people may become sensitized to it, however the evidence that coumarin can cause an allergic reaction in humans is disputed. Coumarin is still used as a legal flavorant in the tobacco industry, particularly for sweet pipe tobacco.
: a crystalline lactone C10H8O that is found in various solanaceous plants (as members of the genus Scopolia or belladonna). What made you want to look up scopoletin? 
The digestive vacuole of autophagy that results from the fusion of a lysosome with an autophagic vacuole. Synonym(s): autophagosome. /au·to·phago·some/ (-fag´o-sōm) an intracytoplasmic vacuole containing elements of a cell's own cytoplasm; it fuses with a lysosome and the contents are subjected to enzymatic digestion.
Toddaculin, a natural coumarin from Toddalia asiatica, induces ... by Vazquez, Ramiro; Riveiro, Maria E.; Vermeulen, Monica; Mondillo, Carolina; Coombes, Philip H.; Crouc / Phytomedicine: International Journal of Phytotherapy & Phytopharmacology. Effect of chito-oligosaccharide on the oral absorptions of phenolic ... by Zhou, Wei; Shan, Jinjun; Tan, Xiaobin; Zou, Jiashuang; Yin, Ailing; Cai, Baochang; Di, Liuqing
compitum: a tract of transmission tissue in the gynoecium that is common to all the carpels of the one flower and that allows pollen landing on any one stigma or part of a stigma to fertilise ovules in any carpel, strictly speaking = intragynoecial compitum, c.f. extragynoecial compitum, hyperstigma. 1989; Metcalfe & Chalk 1989; Carlquist 2001, 2010). Other terms have definitions that can be distinguished only with difficulty, or there are alternative sets of terms that can be used when looking at the same structures, but from different points of view (e.g. c.f. a superior ovary and a hypogynous flower).
Coumarin (/ˈkuːmərɪn/ ; 2H-chromen-2-one) is a fragrant organic chemical compound in the benzopyrone chemical class, which is a colorless crystalline substance in its standard state. It is a natural substance found in many plants. Coumarin is subject to restrictions on its use in perfumery, as some people may become sensitized to it, however the evidence that coumarin can cause an allergic reaction in humans is disputed. Coumarin is still used as a legal flavorant in the tobacco industry, particularly for sweet pipe tobacco.
Coumarin is used in certain perfumes and fabric conditioners. Coumarin has been used as an aroma enhancer in pipe tobaccos and certain alcoholic drinks, although in general it is banned as a flavorant food additive, due to concerns regarding its hepatotoxicity in animal models. Coumarin is subject to restrictions on its use in perfumery, as some people may become sensitized to it, however the evidence that coumarin can cause an allergic reaction in humans is disputed. Coumarin is still used as a legal flavorant in the tobacco industry, particularly for sweet pipe tobacco.
Toddaculin, a natural coumarin from Toddalia asiatica, induces ... by Vazquez, Ramiro; Riveiro, Maria E.; Vermeulen, Monica; Mondillo, Carolina; Coombes, Philip H.; Crouc / Phytomedicine: International Journal of Phytotherapy & Phytopharmacology. Effect of chito-oligosaccharide on the oral absorptions of phenolic ... by Zhou, Wei; Shan, Jinjun; Tan, Xiaobin; Zou, Jiashuang; Yin, Ailing; Cai, Baochang; Di, Liuqing
Over-expression of a scopoletin glucosyltransferase in Nicotiana tabacum leads to precocious lesion formation during the hypersensitive response to tobacco mosaic virus but does not affect virus resistance. Abstract. Nicotiana tabacum Togt encodes a scopoletin glucosyltransferase (UDPglucose:scopoletin O -β-D-glucosyltransferase, EC 2.4.1.128) known to act in vitro on many different substrates including the 6-methoxy-7-hydroxy-coumarin scopoletin.