The term LIMS has tended to refer to informatics systems targeted for environmental, research, or commercial analysis such as pharmaceutical or petrochemical work. LIS has tended to refer to laboratory informatics systems in the forensics and clinical markets, which often required special case management tools. As of 2012, some LIMS have added additional characteristics that continue to shape how a LIMS is defined. Additions include clinical functionality, electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) functionality, as well a rise in the software as a service (SaaS) distribution model.
Image credit: ASTM | ATS GmbH. Laboratory information managements systems (LIMS) are used to manage information and data in scientific and commercial laboratories. While a laboratory information management system represents a comprehensive system, it is rarely static and may evolve with the laboratory. Traditionally, LIM systems have been initially installed to manage samples, including: receiving and tracking samples and associated data.
The definition of a LIMS is somewhat controversial: LIMSs are dynamic because the laboratory's requirements are rapidly evolving and different labs often have different needs. Therefore, a working definition of a LIMS ultimately depends on the interpretation by the individuals or groups involved. As of 2012, some LIMS have added additional characteristics that continue to shape how a LIMS is defined. Additions include clinical functionality, electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) functionality, as well a rise in the software as a service (SaaS) distribution model.
LIMS as an information management system. LIMS is the information management system used in the Analytical Laboratory, Water Laboratory and Biological Sciences Laboratory at Scientific Services. Interfacing LIMS with various other systems. LIMS has been interfaced with various other information management systems e.g. Departmental Information Management System (DIMs) which is an internal management tool, Blue Drop System (Department of Water Affairs) and Green Drop System (Department of Water Affairs).
Sample receipt/Sample login. From the minute samples are received at Accutest, our LIMS is used to assign a job and generate the bottle labels for all samples. Sample login completes the information by logging in all critical sample information, including the tests to be performed. Sample scheduling. Our LIMS is used to handle all sample scheduling and prioritization. This assures that all samples, including emergency and rush samples, receive the appropriate attention by all areas of the lab. This includes such important issues as turnaround and hold times
Close Move. Hosted LIMS and Scientific Applications Your account includes not only a LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System) for your lab, but also a selection of other software, hand-picked to suit your needs as a professional in the laboratory/scientific community.
A closely related technology to LIS is a laboratory information management system (LIMS), but there are differences between the two software types. An LIS is a healthcare system that holds clinical data. 
Which environments can it be used in? LIMS software systems started with small, closed, in-house solutions in the 1970s. In the 1980s, commercial products became available when software was installed on computers linked together in a closed network system.
The features and uses of a LIMS have evolved over the years from simple sample tracking to an enterprise resource planning tool that manages multiple aspects of laboratory informatics. As of 2012, some LIMS have added additional characteristics that continue to shape how a LIMS is defined. Additions include clinical functionality, electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) functionality, as well a rise in the software as a service (SaaS) distribution model.