The PC market offers a wide variety of all types of products. Consumers who purchase a PC with a Microsoft operating system preinstalled do not have to use this operating system. They can choose to reject the Microsoft Software Licensing Terms and may contact the manufacturer to determine its return policy. A. End users must install the downgrade software using a legally licensed copy of the specified previous version of the Windows desktop or server operating system. The downgrade software may be from the retail, OEM system builder, or Volume Licensing channels.
First, let’s get one thing out of the way. Microsoft’s been all over the map when it comes to whether System Builder licenses can be used by normal computer enthusiasts building their own machines. On Windows XP, Vista, and 8, this was allowed. On Windows 7 and now 8.1, it’s not allowed.
1 The System Builder license states that the system builder is responsible for providing support — so, if you buy a computer with a System Builder copy of Windows, the company or person who sold it to you is supposed to provide support. Microsoft’s been all over the map when it comes to whether System Builder licenses can be used by normal computer enthusiasts building their own machines. On Windows XP, Vista, and 8, this was allowed. On Windows 7 and now 8.1, it’s not allowed.
Genuine Microsoft software | System builder licensing | Windows system builder licensing for personal use | Transfer of license | Microsoft on preinstallation and software returns | Refurbished PCs | Downgrade rights | Activation | Volume Licensing | Additional resources. A. End users must install the downgrade software using a legally licensed copy of the specified previous version of the Windows desktop or server operating system. The downgrade software may be from the retail, OEM system builder, or Volume Licensing channels.
According to Microsoft, they are violating the terms of the OEM System Builder license agreement, which says, in convoluted language, that you must install the software using the OEM Preinstallation Kit and then resell the PC to a third party. The OEM versions of Windows have been available to the general public for many, many years and have worked without problems. The main difference between OEM and Retail is that the OEM license does not allow moving the OS to a different computer, once it is installed.
There is conflicting information all over the web! A: NO! According to Microsoft's licensing documents, purchasers of the OEM System Builder version can't use it on their home PCs -– they has to use the OEM preinstallation kit (which is part of the System Builder deal), install it on a PC, and actually sell that PC. See this quote from the System Builders Licensing FAQ: END USER PROOF OF LICENSE. If you acquired the SOFTWARE on a device, or on a compact disc or other media, a genuine Microsoft Proof of License COA label with a genuine copy of the SOFTWARE identifies a licensed copy of the SOFTWARE.
Use of OEM System Builder Channel software is subject to the terms of the Microsoft OEM System Builder License. This software is intended for pre-installation on a new personal computer for resale. The OEM System Builder Channel software requires the assembler to provide end user support for the Windows software and cannot be transferred to another computer once it is installed. Even if the computer OEM Windows was installed on is no longer being used you can't transfer the OEM license to a different computer. Difference Between a Full/Retail License and an OEM/
A software license is a legal instrument (usually by way of contract law, with or without printed material) governing the use or redistribution of software. Under United States copyright law all software is copyright protected, except material in the public domain. In addition to granting rights and imposing restrictions on the use of software, software licenses typically contain provisions which allocate liability and responsibility between the parties entering into the license agreement.
builder if the software and hardware are distributed with a nonperipheral computer hardware component; provided that the other system builder accepts this license. A copy of this license is posted at. www.microsoft.com/oem/sblicense to facilitate its acceptance by the other system builder. Even if the computer OEM Windows was installed on is no longer being used you can't transfer the OEM license to a different computer. Difference Between a Full/Retail License and an OEM/System Builder License.
Here are the ways a System Builder license is limited: 1  It’s Tied To One Computer/Motherboard: After you install your System Builder copy of Windows, it’s tied to that single computer you install it on forever. Microsoft’s been all over the map when it comes to whether System Builder licenses can be used by normal computer enthusiasts building their own machines. On Windows XP, Vista, and 8, this was allowed. On Windows 7 and now 8.1, it’s not allowed.