Paraproteinemia, or monoclonal gammopathy, is the presence of excessive amounts of paraprotein or single monoclonal gammaglobulin in the blood. It is usually due to an underlying immunoproliferative disorder. It is sometimes considered equivalent to plasma cell dyscrasia. 1 In this case, the paraprotein goes under the name of M-protein (M for monoclonal). 2  If immunoglobulins tend to precipitate within blood vessels with cold, that phenomenon takes the name of cryoglobulinaemia.
Raised serum globulin concentration or total protein may be the first indication of a paraprotein, but a raised globulin level is more commonly due to polyclonally raised globulins in reaction to inflammation, infection, or cancer. Raised serum globulin or total protein, or both, is often the first indication of the presence of a paraprotein. The level of globulin in the serum is derived by subtracting the albumin concentration from the total protein. All globulins are produced by plasma cells in the bone marrow.
MGUS (monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance) is a non-cancerous (benign) condition in which large amounts of a type of antibody are produced in the body. This antibody is called a paraprotein (or M-protein). MGUS doesn’t usually cause any symptoms. It is usually diagnosed with blood and urine tests. MGUS (monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance) is a condition where the body makes an abnormal protein, called a paraprotein. These paraproteins are found in the blood and urine when they’re tested. MGUS is linked to the immune system. The immune system helps the body fight infection and disease.
Paraprotein. A paraprotein is an immunoglobulin or immunoglobulin light-chain that is produced in excess by the clonal proliferation of plasma cells. Detection of paraproteins in the urine or blood is most often associated with benign MGUS, where they remain silent, and multiple myeloma. An excess in the blood is known as paraproteinemia. Paraproteins form a narrow band, or 'spike' in protein electrophoresis as they are all exactly the same protein.
paraprotein. a normal or abnormal plasma protein appearing in large quantities as a result of some pathologic condition, now replaced in most contexts by the term m component. 1. A monoclonal immunoglobulin of the blood plasma, produced by a clone of plasma cells arising from the abnormal rapid multiplication of a single cell. Paraprotein in serum may be seen in various malignant, benign, or nonneoplastic diseases. 2. Synonym(s): monoclonal immunoglobulin
Paraproteins. The term paraprotein was introduced by Apitz in 1940 and is given to describe the abnormal proteins that are produced by myeloma cells and occur in the blood, urine and tissues. Occasionally paraprotein bands appear in the alpha-zones and in the post gamma region. Presence of monoclonal free light chains or Bence Jones protein in urine is suggestive of B cell malignancy and may be the only tumour marker.
Introduction. A paraprotein is the immunoglobulin product of a single cell clone and thus all the immunoglobulin produced will be of only one heavy chain type (IgG, IgA, IgM or rarely IgD) and/or only one light chain type (kappa or lambda; k or l). A paraprotein will only react with a single heavy chain and a single light chain type (e.g. IgG l), or only a single light chain class if only free light chains are produced. IIFX must be carried out in order to confirm monoclonality of the putative paraprotein band. References.
Serum protein electrophoresis showing a paraprotein (peak in the gamma zone) in a patient with multiple myeloma. A myeloma protein is an abnormal immunoglobulin fragment or immunoglobulin light chain that is produced in excess by an abnormal clonal proliferation of plasma cells, typically in multiple myeloma. Other terms for such a protein are M protein, M component, spike protein, or paraprotein. This proliferation of the myeloma protein has several deleterious effects on the body, including impaired immune function, abnormally high viscosity (thickness) of the blood, and kidney damage