1 Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 4  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  Insoluble fiber
Overview. Dietary fiber, found in all plant-based foods, plays an essential role in human health. Most whole foods contain a combination of the two types of fiber, soluble and insoluble. Both types of fiber help maintain the health of your digestive system and promote regular bowel movements. Insoluble fiber, on the other hand, can be found in the peels of fruit, such as apples, blueberries, and grapes. It acts as a natural laxative that speeds the passage of foods through the stomach. It also gives stool its bulk and helps it move quickly through the gastrointestinal tract.
Soluble fiber is found in dried beans and peas, oats, barley, legumes, fruits, flax, and psyllium seed husks. Insoluble fiber is found primarily in fruits and vegetables, whole grain products, and wheat and corn bran. Insoluble fiber, on the other hand, can be found in the peels of fruit, such as apples, blueberries, and grapes. It acts as a natural laxative that speeds the passage of foods through the stomach. It also gives stool its bulk and helps it move quickly through the gastrointestinal tract.
Most of insoluble fibers come from the bran layers of cereal grains. Since dietary fiber is found only in plant products (i.e., nuts, whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables), these are essential to a healthy diet. The average American significantly falls short of the recommended amount of fiber, consuming on average only 12 - 17 grams per day.
1 It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 2  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 3  Insoluble fiber. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4
UniFiber® , unlike most fiber supplements, is insoluble (like the fiber found in nuts and whole grains). Insoluble fiber does not require water to do its job, so it does not cause the gas or bloating associated with many other fiber supplements. 
Dietary fiber, which is found in plant material, is not digestible, but that doesn't reduce its importance in the diet. Insoluble fiber, which is mainly found in wheat bran, legumes and seeds, helps maintain good health in more than one way.
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  Insoluble fiber