Usually, the bacteria that causes the bubonic plague is contracted when someone is bitten by an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, it is possible for a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by an infected person to transmit bacteria through a cut or other opening in your skin and infect you. Within two to six days of exposure to the bacteria that causes the bubonic plague, symptoms may develop, such as: 1  Headache. 2  Chills. 3  Fever. 4  Weakness. 5  Swollen, tender lymph glands (called buboes, hence the name bubonic).
This form of plague is known as bubonic plague, which, if untreated, can develop into a form of plague known as septicemic plague.. In septicemic plague, bacteria invade the blood and infect major body organs. In addition to damaging organs and causing internal hemorrhage, septicemic plague can develop rapidly into a highly infectious disease condition known as pneumonic plague..
Scanning electron micrograph of Yersinia pestis, which causes bubonic plague, on proventricular spines of a Xenopsylla cheopis flea. NIAID. Yersinia pestis (sometimes spelled Yersina) is the name of the bacteria that causes the bubonic plague. 
Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting. Swollen and painful lymph nodes occur in the area closest to where the bacteria entered the skin. The three types of plague are the result of the route of infection: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague. Bubonic plague is mainly spread by infected fleas from small animals. It may also result from exposure to the body fluids from a dead plague infected animal.
Yersinia pestis (formerly Pasteurella pestis) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped coccobacillus, a facultative anaerobic bacterium that can infect humans and animals. It causes the deadly disease named plague. Y. pestis was discovered in 1894 by Alexandre Yersin, a Swiss / French physician and bacteriologist from the Pasteur Institute, during an epidemic of plague in Hong Kong. Yersin was a member of the Pasteur school of thought
Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. The bacteria that causes the bubonic plague is called Yersinia pestis. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague). Within two to six days of exposure to the bacteria that causes the bubonic plague, symptoms may develop, such as: 1  Headache. 2  Chills. 3  Fever. 4  Weakness. 5  Swollen, tender lymph glands (called buboes, hence the name bubonic).
Yersinia pestis are Gram-negative bacteria found in certain parts of the world. This bacteria causes about 1,000 to 3,000 plague cases each year, mostly in Africa, Asia, and South America. Between 10 to 20 cases occur annually in southwest areas of the United States. Within two to six days of exposure to the bacteria that causes the bubonic plague, symptoms may develop, such as: 1  Headache. 2  Chills. 3  Fever. 4  Weakness. 5  Swollen, tender lymph glands (called buboes, hence the name bubonic).
Ecology. The bacteria that cause plague, Yersinia pestis, maintain their existence in a cycle involving rodents and their fleas. In urban areas or places with dense rat infestations, the plague bacteria can cycle between rats and their fleas. If these bacteria-containing droplets are breathed in by another person they can cause pneumonic plague. Typically this requires direct and close contact with the person with pneumonic plague. Transmission of these droplets is the only way that plague can spread between people.