Sedimentary rocks form from sedimentation; sedimentation is the process through which minerals and organic particles collect and settle together. These particles are called sediment. Sedimentary rocks are categorized into three different main types that include many different rocks. Sedimentary rocks are found across the Earth's land masses and in the Earth's oceans. Biochemical sedimentary rocks are made up of particles from air or water. These rocks are also known as organic sedimentary rocks because they form as result of something that grew. For example, coal is a biochemical sedimentary rock that comes from a plant.
The three types of rocks igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic are all subject to processes that change one rock type into another. The images below show several types of rocks undergoing these processes. Just as evaporation and precipitation are processes that move water through the water cycle, igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rock-forming processes move rocks through the rock cycle. In this investigation, you ll examine a detailed example of a rock traveling
Sedimentary rocks are called secondary, because they are often the result of the accumulation of small pieces broken off of pre-existing rocks. There are three main types of sedimentary rocks: Clastic: your basic sedimentary rock. Clastic sedimentary rocks are accumulations of clasts: little pieces of broken up rock which have piled up and been lithified by compaction and cementation. Chemical: many of these form when standing water evaporates, leaving dissolved minerals behind. 
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation.
Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of sediments. There are three basic types of sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks such as breccia, conglomerate, sandstone, siltstone, and shale are formed from mechanical weathering debris. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant
Sedimentary Rocks. Picture Gallery of the Most Common Rock Types. Breccia is a clastic sedimentary rock that is composed of large (over two millimeter diameter) angular fragments. The spaces between the large fragments can be filled with a matrix of smaller particles or a mineral cement which binds the rock together. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant debris
Sedimentary Rock Examples. Common clastic sedimentary rocks are listed on the table below. They are listed by grain size in decending order. Grain size is one factor in classifying sedimentary rocks .Clicking on the name of the rock will bring up a larger picture and a description of the rock type in a new window.
A sedimentary rock is an accumulation of fragments of pre-existing rocks (sediments). There are three types of sedimentary rocks; Clastic (detrital), Chemical, and Biochemical (organic) rocks. 