Nerves and Blood Vessels. Nerves of the Leg. Nerves innervate muscles and skin. The nerves of the leg all originate from the lumbar plexus and sacral plexus. This group includes the sciatic nerve, femoral nerve, obturator nerve, tibial nerve and common fibular nerve (which splits into the superficial fibular nerve and deep fibular nerve). The blood vessels supply the muscles and skin. Arteries carry oxygenated blood to the muscles, whereas veins transport deoxygenated blood away from the muscles. Arteries. The femoral artery is found in the thigh and gives off several branches to supply the muscles in this area
Blood Vessels of the Leg. The blood vessels supply the muscles and skin. Arteries carry oxygenated blood to the muscles, whereas veins transport deoxygenated blood away from the muscles. Arteries. The femoral artery is found in the thigh and gives off several branches to supply the muscles in this area
Gross anatomy. Sympathetic nervous system. Sympathetic nerves travel along arteries and nerves and are found in the adventitia (eg, outer wall) of blood vessels. Varicosities, which are small enlargements along the nerve fibers, are the site of neurotransmitter release. Sympathetic efferent nerves are present throughout the atria, ventricles (including the conduction system), and myocytes in the heart and also the sinoatrial (SA) and atrioventricular (AV) nodes.
Peripheral nerves have multiple layers of connective tissue surrounding axons, with the endoneurium surrounding individual axons, perineurium binding axons into fascicles and epineurium binding the fascicles into a nerve. There are also blood vessels (vasa vasorum) and nerves (nervi nervorum) contained within the nerve. Nerve fibers in peripheral nerves are wavy, such that a length of peripheral nerve can be stretched to half again its length before tension is directly transmitted to nerve fibers. 
The oculocardiac reflex involves a decrease in heart rate and/or blood pressure in response to eyeball pressure. The reflex is thought to originate from the ophthalmic portion of the trigeminal nerve. Varicosities, which are small enlargements along the nerve fibers, are the site of neurotransmitter release. Sympathetic efferent nerves are present throughout the atria, ventricles (including the conduction system), and myocytes in the heart and also the sinoatrial (SA) and atrioventricular (AV) nodes.
Although it is considered a headache, a migraine attack is actually a response to changes in the diameters of blood vessels in the face, head, and neck. Constriction followed by dilation of these vessels causes head pain (usually on one side), nausea and perhaps vomiting, and sensitivity to light. The nervous system is composed predominantly of neural tissue, but also includes some blood vessels and connective tissue. Neural tissue consists of two cell types: nerve cells, or neurons (nu'ronz), and neuroglia (nu-rog'le-ah) or glial cells
Damage to nerves and blood vessels. Prolonged exposure to high blood sugar can damage delicate nerve fibers, causing diabetic neuropathy. Why this happens isn't completely clear, but a combination of factors likely plays a role, including the complex interaction between nerves and blood vessels. High blood sugar interferes with the ability of the nerves to transmit signals.
The motor functions of the nervous system employ neurons that carry impulses from the central nervous system to responsive structures called effectors. These effectors are outside the nervous system and include muscles that contract in response to nerve impulse stimulation, and glands that secrete when stimulated. The nervous system is composed predominantly of neural tissue, but also includes some blood vessels and connective tissue. Neural tissue consists of two cell types: nerve cells, or neurons (nu'ronz), and neuroglia (nu-rog'le-ah) or glial cells