Asparagus densiflorus is an extremely versatile perennial, evergreen plant that can be used as a groundcover or container plant in full sun or light shade. Although there are many striking and beautiful South African Asparagus species, most of them have horrendously large or sharp spines. Asparagus densiflorus 'Meyersii' is known under a variety of names, i.e. 'Myers', Asparagus meyers, Asparagus meyeri, with the common names of cat's tail asparagus or foxtail fern.
Asparagus or garden asparagus, scientific name Asparagus officinalis, is a spring vegetable, a flowering perennial plant species in the genus Asparagus. Asparagus is very popular in the Netherlands, Spain, France, Poland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Turkey, Italy and Switzerland, and is almost exclusively white; if not, it is specified by the local language term for green asparagus.
COMMON ASPARAGUS Lu sun Scientific names Common names Asparagus officinalis Linn. Asparagus (Tag., Engl.) Asparagus officinalis var. L. var. altilis L. Common asparagus (Engl.) Asparagus polyphyllus Stev.. Lu sun (Chin.) Other vernacular names AFRIKAANS: Aspersie. 
Geography and distribution. Garden asparagus is native to Europe, Asia (as far east as Mongolia) and northwestern Africa (Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia). It is grown worldwide as a crop, particularly in North and South America, China and Europe. Cultivation. Asparagus is a perennial plant and can live for up to twenty years; it benefits from good soil preparation before planting. Removal of all weeds is essential as this will be extremely difficult once the crop has been planted.
Parasitic wasp attacking asparagus beetle egg. The common asparagus beetle, Crioceris asparagi, and the spotted asparagus beetle, Crioceris duodecimpunctata, are pests of asparagus. Distinguishing between the two species is important because the common asparagus beetle is more prevalent and causes more damage. The larvae of both species are slug-like with visible heads and legs. Common asparagus beetle larvae are light gray with a black head (Fig. 3), while spotted asparagus beetle larvae are orange.
Despite its common names, this plant is not a true fern, but has leaves that resemble one. Description: Asparagus setaceus is a scrambling perennial evergreen herb with tough green stems, which may reach 1m (3 feet) in length. It has wiry stems with an upright habit and and a flattened spray of bright green branchelets displayed horizontal.
Asparagus setaceus. Distribution and habitat: Asparagus setaceus is a vine plant in the genus Asparagus. It is native to Southern Africa and is grown elsewhere as an ornamental plant. It has become an invasive species in several locations where it has been introduced. Description: Asparagus setaceus is a scrambling perennial evergreen herb with tough green stems, which may reach 1m (3 feet) in length. It has wiry stems with an upright habit and and a flattened spray of bright green branchelets displayed horizontal.
The common name asparagus derives from the Greek asparagos (and originally the Persian asparag) meaning sprout or shoot, referring to the succulent shoot tips (spears) that emerge in spring. The specific epithet officinalis means ‘of the dispensary’ in Latin, alluding to the medicinal properties of the plant. Cultivation. Asparagus is a perennial plant and can live for up to twenty years; it benefits from good soil preparation before planting. Removal of all weeds is essential as this will be extremely difficult once the crop has been planted.
Introduction. Asparagus aethiopicus is native to South Africa and is an evergreen herb that is commonly used as a groundcover or in container plantings. It is also widely used in hanging baskets for its showy foliage and bright red berries. Asparagus aethiopicus is a slightly woody evergreen plant with upright or trailing branches, able to grow up to 2 feet in height and 6 feet in length. Tiny spines are borne in axils along branches.