Compare/contrast the poem Comrade Napoleon to Beast of England.. Beasts of England is about the golden future time for all the animals. It reminded them of all the good things the rebellion was supposed to be about. They loved it and sang it repeatedly whenever they could. It united them. Comrade Napoleon is all about Napoleon...and it's all propaganda. Describe the whiskey incident. The pigs got drunk on whiskey they discovered in the basement. Napoleon's hangover made all the pigs think he was dying. In a drunken stupor Squealer added the words in excess to the not drinking alcohol commandment.
Report Abuse. It is to trick the animals to believe that the production rate is higher than the previous year but was actually declining rapidly due to the pig's control and use of the produce for their own needs. Source(s): http://www.enotes.com/animal/q-and-a/wha... dltamom · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Best Answer: Squealer represents propaganda. All the numbers were to make the (rather dumb) animals think Animal Farm is going on well, so that they won't want to return to Jones even though they are suffering more. However, many of the production numbers are lies to make everyone think Animal farm is the best choice
Instead, Squealer tricks them to make them believe that they are treated well and should be happy. The production figures are done for that purpose. Squealer is giving the animals factual data that things are actually better for them than when Jones was in charge. Because the animals have no way to challenge that data, they are persuaded to believe that their perception is incorrect and that Squealer is right. blaky | Student, Grade 11 | eNotes Newbie. Posted on. (Answer #2). squealer wants to persuasive the other animals. On Sunday mornings Squealer, holding a long strip of paper with his trotter, would read out to them lists of figures proving that the production of every class of foodstuff had increased by two hundred per cent, three hundred per cent, or five hundred per cent as the case might be.”. Squealer is Mr. Propaganda.
Chapters VIII and IX (1) What purpose is served by the production figures Squealer reads to the animals? (2) How is Napoleon becoming more and more like a typical dictator? (3) Compare/contrast the poem Comrade Napoleon to Beast of England. (4) Describe the sale of the stack of lumber. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the pigs fool the other animals by manipulating facts and figures to prove they are producing more and are much better off than they have ever been before. Nobody can dispute facts! Not even today. Squealer uses propaganda to deceive all of the animals on Animal Farm into thinking things that the pigs want them to think, instead of the pigs letting the animals know the t … ruth. Squealer is a manipulator and a propagandist, and should not be trusted.
24)Note how the animals now arrange themselves when they enter the barn to receive their orders, as compared with the description in Chapter I. Napoleon, Squealer, and Minimus, the poet, sit on a raised platform, The nine dogs sit in a semicircle around the three, and the other pigs sit behind them. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). By Chapter VIII, Napoleon has begun involving the farm in trade with other farms, and as a result he demands much higher production of food from the animals on the farm. During the course of Chapter VIII, Squealer comes to the animals and reads them the production figures. While the figures are informative to the animals, Squealer's purpose in reading them to the animals takes on an added significance. The figures serve as an illustration of the success of the farm/state. They are meant to instill pride and a sense of motivation in the animals, though the opposite it most often the case. 