The Volga River. The Volga River is the longest river in Europe, about 2,300 miles (3,700 km). It originates at an elevation of only 740 feet (225 m) in the Valday Hills northwest of Moscow, connects with the Rybinsk Reservoir. The river heads east past Yaroslavl, Nizhny Novgorod and Kazan. The Moscow Canal connects it with the Moscow River and the Oka River. At Volgograd, it links, through canals, with the Don River and Black Sea. The Volga carries about half of all river freight in Russia.
Landforms The broad European Plain, or Volga River Plain extends from the Ural Mountains to its western borders. In the far southwest the Caucasus Mountains slice across the land. The country's highest point, Mt. Elbrus, is located here, at 18,481 ft. (5,633m). European Russia is the mass of Russian land west of the Ural Mountains It's indicated above in a medium shade of green, fronting Europe. It is not a separate country, but rather called European Russia because of its political and cultural blending with European countries and peoples.
1 The Volga River is the longest river in Europe, at 2,294 miles. 2  It has its source in the Valdai Hills about 200 miles from St. Petersburg, and flows into the Caspian Sea. 3  The drainage basin of the Volga includes most of Western Russia, an area that is home to 11 of the 20 largest cities in Russia. Here are some facts about the Volga River. 1  The Volga River is the longest river in Europe, at 2,294 miles. 2  It has its source in the Valdai Hills about 200 miles from St. Petersburg, and flows into the Caspian Sea.
In Bodies of Water. The Volga River of western Russia starts in the Valdai Hills northwest of Moscow and flows about 3,701 km (2,300 mi) generally east and south to the Caspian Sea.   The Volg … a River flows in the eastward direction. 11 people found this useful.
The Volga River of western Russia starts in the Valdai Hills northwest of Moscow and flows about 3,701 km (2,300 mi) generally east and south to the Caspian Sea.   The Volg … a River flows in the eastward direction. Russia, which is in Europe. Russia, as well as former Soviet Union is in 2 continents-Europe AND Asia. Frequently is used name of ONE continent as Eurasia.
The Volga and its tributaries form the Volga river system, which flows through an area of about 1,350,000 square kilometres (521,238 square miles) in the most heavily populated part of Russia. The Turkic peoples living along the river formerly referred to it as Itil or Atil big river. In modern Turkic languages, the Volga is known as İdel (идел) in Tatar, атăл (Atăl) in Chuvash, Idhel in Bashkir, Edil in Kazakh, and İdil in Turkish. The Turkic peoples associated the Itil's origin with the Kama River.
[ˈvolɡə]. ) is the longest river in Europe; it is also Europe's largest river in terms of discharge and watershed. It flows through central Russia and into the Caspian Sea, and is widely viewed as the national river of Russia. Eleven of the twenty largest cities of Russia, including the capital, Moscow, are in the Volga's watershed (drainage basin). The Turkic peoples living along the river formerly referred to it as Itil or Atil big river. In modern Turkic languages, the Volga is known as İdel (идел) in Tatar, атăл (Atăl) in Chuvash, Idhel in Bashkir, Edil in Kazakh, and İdil in Turkish. The Turkic peoples associated the Itil's origin with the Kama River.
The Volga River is the longest river in Russia. The Volga is located in European Russia. Russia is located in Europe and Asia. Russia, which is in Europe. Russia, as well as former Soviet Union is in 2 continents-Europe AND Asia. Frequently is used name of ONE continent as Eurasia.
The Volga River is the longest river in Russia. The Volga is located in European Russia. Russia is located in Europe and Asia. The Volga River of western Russia starts in the Valdai Hills northwest of Moscow and flows about 3,701 km (2,300 mi) generally east and south to the Caspian Sea.   The Volg … a River flows in the eastward direction. 11 people found this useful.