Honeyville's Freeze Dried Peaches are light and crisp, while the flavors have the perfect balance of sweet and tart that only comes from the freshest peaches. You can use them for any application that calls for peaches, including eating them right out of the can as a healthy snack. Honeyville Freeze Dried Peaches are produced in a process where moisture is removed from the product using a very low temperature and a vacuum. Only about 3 percent moisture remains in the product at the time of packaging. The end product weight is reduced by over 90 percent, while the volume stays the same.
Shelf-Life: Freeze Dried Peaches will store for 10 to 15 years in a sealed small can and seald #10 can (oxygen absorber included) under ideal storage conditions (cool, dry place). Once opened, it has an average shelf life of 12 to 18 months. Honeyville Freeze Dried Peaches are produced in a process where moisture is removed from the product using a very low temperature and a vacuum. Only about 3 percent moisture remains in the product at the time of packaging. The end product weight is reduced by over 90 percent, while the volume stays the same.
How to freeze peaches. It's quick and easy to prepare desserts and other peach recipes with frozen fresh peaches. With a little preparation peaches freeze really well and then can be tossed into recipes at a later date. Frozen peaches are also great plain -- set aside a batch to munch on when you have a sweet craving. Now you can buy peaches at farmer's markets or when they're on-sale in the grocery store and freeze them to enjoy as a peach cobbler or other peach-filled treat any time.
*Special Note: If you do not want the frozen peaches to freeze/stick together, you can use the following method, (ONLY for use with the dry pack-no sugar method), so that you can more easily remove a desired amount of frozen peaches from the freezer when you wish to use them. If you do not have enough room to store frozen peaches in your freezer, you can can peaches instead. These peaches (left) were. frozen with out sugar using. the dry pack method (see below for instructions). These peaches (above) were frozen with sugar using the syrup
You can also freeze whole tomatoes and the skins will come right off – I do this until I have enough to can a batch. I’ve also frozen sliced whole peaches for ease of use for smoothies, etc. I just layer them in parchment paper, freeze, then place in ziplocs. [ Reply ]. Reply: I do this too. Wash them, let them dry, then put them on a tray whole WITH the skins in the freezer. Once they are frozen solid, put them into freezer bags. Take out one as you need it. While still frozen, you can easily run your hands over the skin under water to remove it (if you want). Then let sit until thawed.
I can’t wait to try it!”. On my 10 Healthy and Easy Peach Recipes post, Jenny from DIY Parenting said, “We learned something VERY exciting last year… you can freeze whole peaches ! Wash them, let them dry, then put them on a tray whole WITH the skins in the freezer. Once they are frozen solid, put them into freezer bags. Take out one as you need it. While still frozen, you can easily run your hands over the skin under water to remove it (if you want). Then let sit until thawed.
After jamming and canning and drying until my floors were coated with a fine film of sticky peach juice it occurred to me to freeze some peaches. A little web-browsing revealed a technique where you just stick a whole, ripe peach in the freezer. 
Put the peaches in a freezer food storage container. You can use either tubs or freezer bags. Fill the container with the peach wedges, leaving a little room at the top. Since the wedges were pre-frozen, they shouldn't stick together. Label the container with the date the peaches were processed and stored. Peach season is always gone before you know it, but if you freeze your peaches you'll be able to enjoy the warm sweetness of summer all through the cooler months. To preserve the peaches' flavor, pick peaches at the height of ripeness. You can either slice them and freeze them in a syrup solution or wrap whole peaches in newspaper
Packaging: Freeze Dried Peaches are sealed air tight in a small can and weighs approximately 4.5 ounces. Each small can contains 10 servings. They are also sealed air tight in a #10 can and weighs approximately 12 ounces. Honeyville Freeze Dried Peaches are produced in a process where moisture is removed from the product using a very low temperature and a vacuum. Only about 3 percent moisture remains in the product at the time of packaging. The end product weight is reduced by over 90 percent, while the volume stays the same.