Download. Personal Identity and Culture Culture – the way a group of people live. Culture includes the way people dress, make shelters, eat, communicate, find companionship, work, learn, are entertained, and find justice in the society. 
People are unique because no one identity is the same. Every person has his or her own unique identity, which are created by a person’s cultural background, or personal experiences. Cultural background is a primary source of identity. Self-definition, expression, and sense of group belonging are aspects of a person that derives partly from his or her cultural background. My personal cultural background that makes up my identity consists of multiple sources. These sources have influenced me to live the type of lifestyle I live; to behave the way I behave; and to perceive the world the way I do.
Finally, the third stage of the model is cultural identity achievement. Ideally, people at this stage have a clear sense of their cultural identity and are able to successfully navigate it in the contemporary world which is undoubtedly very interconnected and intercultural.
Cultural identity search: is the process of exploration and questioning about one's culture in order to learn more about it and to understand the implications of membership in that culture.. During this stage a person will begin to question why they hold their beliefs and compare it to the beliefs of other cultures. Since many aspects of a person's cultural identity can be changed, such as citizenship or influence from outside cultures can change cultural traditions, language is a main component of cultural identity.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Cultural Identity is a person's background and also how you can refer to a person. A person's culture is usually where they are from, what language they speak, and their religion. Culture is the lifestyle of a group of people, and identity is the characteristics of a specific person.   OR   Culture and identity are too different and too similar.
These sources may be different for every person, ranging from a person’s upbringing to a person’s religion. This paper will define cultural background and examine the multiple sources that make up my own personal cultural background that helped mold my individual identity. My personal cultural background that makes up my identity consists of multiple sources. These sources have influenced me to live the type of lifestyle I live; to behave the way I behave; and to perceive the world the way I do.
In this way, cultural identity is both characteristic of the individual but also of the culturally identical group of members sharing the same cultural identity. Cultural identity is similar to and overlaps with identity politics. Since many aspects of a person's cultural identity can be changed, such as citizenship or influence from outside cultures can change cultural traditions, language is a main component of
A nation's identity is made up of the way people dress, act, speak, their traditions, etc. For example, Australia is a multicultural country. Hope you like my answer and that you get some good information from it. Culture is an integral part of every society. It is a learned pattern of behavior and ways in which a person lives his or her life. Culture is essential for the existence of a society, because it binds people together.
Cultural identity is often defined as the identity of a group, culture or an individual, influenced by one’s belonging to a group or culture. Ideally, people at this stage have a clear sense of their cultural identity and are able to successfully navigate it in the contemporary world which is undoubtedly very interconnected and intercultural.
Usually you eat food according to your culture, and your traditions are according to your religion. For example, I am a Muslim so therefore I celebrate Eid. A person's identity is their age, gender, ethnicity and job, etc. The way you are brought up can affect your identity quite a lot. Culture is the lifestyle of a group of people, and identity is the characteristics of a specific person.   OR   Culture and identity are too different and too similar.