Arthritis means joint inflammation.. It causes pain and swelling in the body's joints, such as the knees or hips. There are many types of arthritis, but osteoarthritis is the most common. Also known as degenerative joint disease or age-related arthritis, osteoarthritis is more likely to develop as people get older. Osteoarthritis occurs when inflammation and injury to a joint cause a breaking down of cartilage tissue. In turn, that breakdown causes pain, swelling, and deformity. Cartilage is a firm, rubbery material that covers the ends of bones in normal joints
There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. 
Degenerative arthritis: A type of arthritis caused by inflammation, breakdown, and eventual loss of the cartilage of the joints. Degenerative arthritis is the most common form of arthritis, usually affecting the hands, feet, spine, and large weight-bearing joints, such as the hips and knees. Also known as osteoarthritis and degenerative joint disease
Degenerative arthritis is a chronic inflammation of the joints which can lead to disability and severe pain. This is the most common type of arthritis, occurring frequently in men over 45 and women over 55, and it also emerges in the wake of injuries to the bones and joints. A healthy hip and one with osteoarthritis. An illustration of a healthy spine and one with spinal osteoarthritis, a form of degenerative arthritis. No cure exists for osteoarthritis, which can lead to the severe degradation of cartilage on one or more joints of the body. Degenerative arthritis often affects the fingers.
Osteoarthritis is degenerative condition characterized by a wearing away of the cartilage in the joints. Levels of pain associated with degenerative arthritis can vary based on the time of day and location. Acupuncture may help relieve the symptoms of degenerative arthritis. A healthy hip and one with osteoarthritis. An illustration of a healthy spine and one with spinal osteoarthritis, a form of degenerative arthritis. No cure exists for osteoarthritis, which can lead to the severe degradation of cartilage on one or more joints of the body. Degenerative arthritis often affects the fingers.
Osteoarthritis. Sometimes called degenerative joint disease or “wear and tear” arthritis, osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common chronic condition of the joints. It occurs when the cartilage or cushion between joints breaks down leading to pain, stiffness and swelling. pain. 
Osteoarthritis is also known as degenerative joint disease. It is a condition in which the protective cartilage that cushions the tops of bones degenerates, or wears down. This causes swelling and pain. It may also cause the development of osteophytes, or bone spurs. 
Osteoarthritis of the Spine and Disc Degeneration. Medical practitioners often refer to osteoarthritis in the spine as spinal arthritis, degenerative joint disease, or arthritis of the facet joints. Spinal arthritis is relatively common and is most likely to occur in people over age fifty. 
My doctor says I have degenerative changes in my spine. Yes. The phrase degenerative changes in the spine refers to osteoarthritis of the spine. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Doctors may also refer to it as degenerative arthritis or degenerative joint disease. Osteoarthritis in the spine most commonly occurs in the neck and lower back. With age, the soft disks that act as cushions between the spine's vertebrae dry out and shrink. 