Best Answer: Vizio is an USA Trade Name. is a USA brand. only sold in USA. all Vizio products from Design to productions are don by other factory. Vizio don't made any TV. Vizio TV is made in China or Taiwan by those OEM TV manufactures USA do not made any TV for the pass 20 year. even the History no 1 USA brand RCA, (world first B/W TV is made in USA by RCA) and RCA brand is total own by China TCL group. all RCA tv is made in China by TCL.
VIZIO primarily produces television sets. VIZIO became the largest LCD TV seller (by volume) in North America for the second quarter of 2007, with 606,402 TVs sold, a 76% jump from the previous quarter. Its market share increased from 9.4% to 14.5%. In September 2003, VIZIO started selling LCD TVs to Costco in Japan. In February 2009, VIZIO announced they would stop production of plasma televisions and would focus on the LED-backlit LCD displays instead. At the CES 2009, VIZIO introduced a 240 Hz LED-backlit VF551XVT 55 LCD TV.
VIZIO unveiled a new range of televisions including VIZIO's M line with 65 screens; ultra-wide televisions with 50, 58, and 71 screen sizes; two all-in-one desktop computers (24 and 27); three notebooks (one 14 and two 15); and a 10 tablet at the 2012 International Consumer Electronics Show. In September 2003, VIZIO started selling LCD TVs to Costco in Japan. In February 2009, VIZIO announced they would stop production of plasma televisions and would focus on the LED-backlit LCD displays instead. At the CES 2009, VIZIO introduced a 240 Hz LED-backlit VF551XVT 55 LCD TV.
Rather than manufacturer televisions, you might say that Vizio just has someone else put them together. The majority of the flat panels found in Vizio HDTV’s are made by a Taiwanese company called Amtran Technology. According to an article on Forbes.com, Amtran also owns a 24% stake in the Vizio company. Like many people who first discovered this brand, I wondered who made Vizio. I thought perhaps they were an offshoot of some larger brand name, but they are really their own company based out of California. However, don’t think that Vizio is an American-made television.
As we know, Vizio TV is one of the best Smart TV in USA. From Vizio  official website you will know that only MP4 video format is  supported by Vizio LED Smart TV from USB. …    Though the TV shows you purchased from iTunes Store are M4V video  format with Apple copyright protection. Yes, the company Vizio is a USA company although some parts are made in other countries but development, engineering etc. are here in the USA.
As we know, Vizio TV is one of the best Smart TV in USA. From Vizio  official website you will know that only MP4 video format is  supported by Vizio LED Smart TV from USB. …    Though the TV shows you purchased from iTunes Store are M4V video  format with Apple copyright protection. Confidence votes 155. Yes, the company Vizio is a USA company although some parts are made in other countries but development, engineering etc. are here in the USA. As a result, the profits are spent here in America.
VIZIO is an American privately held consumer electronics company, based in Irvine, California. It was founded in October 2002 as V Inc. and is best known as a producer of affordable flat screen televisions. In September 2003, VIZIO started selling LCD TVs to Costco in Japan. In February 2009, VIZIO announced they would stop production of plasma televisions and would focus on the LED-backlit LCD displays instead. At the CES 2009, VIZIO introduced a 240 Hz LED-backlit VF551XVT 55 LCD TV.
CES 2014: Vizio: We've made the best TV in the world. TV makers routinely boast about picture quality, but when a claim like Best TV in the World comes from a company like Vizio-best known for its bargain boob tubes-it seems especially far-fetched. Share (0). 1  facebook
Hi, there. David Katzmaier from CNET, and behind me is the largest TV I've seen at the show and probably the largest TV at the show. This is the 120 Vizio RS120. Vizio was calling it a reference series therefore they're saying it's the best TV ever made. TV makers routinely boast about picture quality, but when a claim like Best TV in the World comes from a company like Vizio-best known for its bargain boob tubes-it seems especially far-fetched.