Pneumonia is an inflammation of the lung tissue. It is usually due to infection. Pneumonia tends to be more serious than bronchitis. Bronchitis is an inflammation or infection of the large airways-the bronchi (see diagram). Sometimes bronchitis and pneumonia occur together which is called bronchopneumonia. 
☛ Candida Lung Infection. Candida lung infection can cause the development of flu and pneumonia-like symptoms in the infected person. Some of the symptoms of candida lung infection are cold, cough, and fatigue. Sometimes, mucus is discharged while coughing. Some people may also experience muscular pain due to candida infection. 
This is the main cause of a number of respiratory illnesses or lung infections. Lung inflammations or infections include common cold and cough, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, pneumonia and pleurisy. Bacteria and viruses that are inhaled thrive in the moist lung environment, if the immune system is not strong enough to fight initial contact. Lung Infections: Causes and Symptoms. Human health is dependent on the individual health of the various internal systems. Within the respiratory system, our lungs are vital to life supportive respiration or inhalation and exhalation of air.
Lung infection: Introduction. Lung infection: Any infection that occurs in the lung. See detailed information below for a list of 34 causes of Lung infection, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
This information shows the various causes of Lung infection, and how common these diseases or conditions are in the general population. This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Lung infection, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. 
The lung is a frequent target of infection including acute bronchitis or pneumonia, which are often caused by viruses, but also can be caused by bacteria or fungal organisms. Specific infections that are common in central Ohio include: Histoplasmosis: a fungus that lives in the soil and is associated with bird droppings. Histoplasmosis can not be passed person to person. It can cause either an acute or chronic pneumonia.
A lung infection is an inflammation in or around the lung tissues that is caused by a virus, fungi, or bacteria. There are a number of things that can trigger this sort of problem, but the four most common tend to be asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, and tuberculosis. Tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is one of the most serious lung diseases a person can get. It is a serious pulmonary infection that is caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis. The lungs are usually the main organ affected, but the infection can and often does spread.
Asthma is a common cause of a lung infection. Common causes of a lung infection include bronchitis. Pneumonia is a common cause of a lung infection. Antibiotics may be prescribed to treat symptoms associated with a lung infection. The human respiratory system, showing the trachea, bronchioles, and lungs. Tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is one of the most serious lung diseases a person can get. It is a serious pulmonary infection that is caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis. The lungs are usually the main organ affected, but the infection can and often does spread.
Chronic Pulmonary Infections. The lung is a frequent target of infection including acute bronchitis or pneumonia, which are often caused by viruses, but also can be caused by bacteria or fungal organisms. With rest, supportive care, and occasionally antibiotics most of these infections should improve in a few weeks. Specific infections that are common in central Ohio include: Histoplasmosis: a fungus that lives in the soil and is associated with bird droppings. Histoplasmosis can not be passed person to person. It can cause either an acute or chronic pneumonia.