Renewal fee: $4,600.00. Variation to terms and conditions a grant of QFE status: (Effective from 1 December 2014). Fee: $115.00 plus $178.25 for every hour, or part-hour pro rata, of work carried out by a member or employee of the FMA in considering the application. Individuals and entities required to be registered on FSPR will also need to pay fees. If an additional fee is to be charged for your application we will let you know the reasons for this. The fee for an application to vary an existing licence (other than to vary a licence to add a new type of financial market service) is $115.00 (inclusive of GST). The FMA will charge a fee for the time spent assessing a variation application, based on the hourly rates set out above
* You are in a membership dues category that will transition at the time of renewal (resident or fellow to first year in medical practice;first year in medical practice to second year in medical practice; second year in medical practice to regular practice). For the 2015 membership year, the allocated cost of $31 for JAMA is included in, and not deductible from AMA membership dues. All members receive free online access to The JAMA Network®, which brings together JAMA and the 9 specialty journals.
Voting shall be by secret ballot if requested by one or more of the voting members present. ARTICLE VIII Fees The minimum initiation fee payable by each member, other than honorary members, shall include the cost of a one-year student-rate membership in FMA. Chapters may charge and collect such other fees and dues as deemed reasonable by the Chapter membership. 
Variation to terms and conditions or scope of an adviser’s authorisation: (Effective from 1 December 2014). Fee: $115.00 plus $178.25 for every hour, or part-hour pro rata, of work carried out by a member or employee of the FMA in considering the application. Individuals and entities required to be registered on FSPR will also need to pay fees. If an additional fee is to be charged for your application we will let you know the reasons for this. The fee for an application to vary an existing licence (other than to vary a licence to add a new type of financial market service) is $115.00 (inclusive of GST). The FMA will charge a fee for the time spent assessing a variation application, based on the hourly rates set out above
Dues-paying members are eligible to receive print copies of JAMA. For the 2015 membership year, the allocated cost of $31 for JAMA is included in, and not deductible from AMA membership dues. All members receive free online access to The JAMA Network®, which brings together JAMA and the 9 specialty journals.
MEMBERSHIP APPLICATIONS AND FEES DUE ON SEPTEMBER 15th!! Please click here for a membership application (this is the same application for regular and National Honor Society members). Membership fees are $45 for one year or $70 for two years. Step 1. Fill out your Personal Information. Step 2. 
Membership Types: Let's Get Started! FMA offers several membership categories. Choose the one that's right for you by reviewing the different member types below and when you are ready to apply, just click the blue Join Now bar to the left of your screen. If you have any questions, please contact Katie Redmond at (703) 683-8700 ext. 
Membership. Register. Membership in ITFMA is available to those involved with any aspect of the financial management of Information Technology (IT) organizations. The annual individual membership fee is $100 per person and the corporate membership fee is $500 for each 15 or less individuals. A membership application is required for each person enrolled as an individual or corporate member. Annual memberships are for the period January to December of this year. 
Membership. Member Mentions. What members are saying about the FMA. I wanted to join an organization that was well respected, professional and served as a representative advocate for its members. I found that in the FMA. — Carrie Morris, M.D. As an active member of multiple medical associations, I can tell you with certainty that the FMA is one of the most organized and politically active in the nation. If you want to make a difference in your professional and your patient community, being a physician is not enough.