Igneous rocks are formed by the solidification of magma, a silicate liquid generated by partial melting of the upper mantle or the lower crust. Different environments of formation, and the cooling rates associated with these, create very different textures and define the two major groupings within igneous rocks: The environment of formation produces characteristic textures in igneous rocks which aid in their identification. These textures are: Phaneritic-This texture describes a rock with large, easily visible, interlocking crystals of several minerals.
Every mineral has a characteristic luster, but some minerals may have a different luster on different specimens. There is no scientific method to determine luster. Often, determining the luster of a particular specimen is personal; to some it may appear as one type of luster, and to others as a different type. Pitchy-Minerals with a tar-like appearence have a pitchy luster. Minerals with a pitchy luster are usually radioactive and have gone through the process of metamiction. Waxy-A waxy luster describes a mineral that appears as if it were coated with a layer wax.
Each mineral has a characteristic density (density does not vary with the size of the mineral). Specific gravity is the ratio of the density of a mineral compared to the density of water. It is a more specific way to compare the densities of minerals. A mineral is able to scratch a mineral with a lower number and can, therefore be scratched by a mineral with a higher number. (The links are to photographs of samples of the minerals. Place your mouse over each image link to view it in a separate window. Close the window to return to this page and continue.
A mineral's streak color may differ from the color of the mineral itself. This characteristic is most useful for minerals that are relatively soft (have a hardness less than 7) and which have a characteristic streak color. A mineral is able to scratch a mineral with a lower number and can, therefore be scratched by a mineral with a higher number. (The links are to photographs of samples of the minerals. Place your mouse over each image link to view it in a separate window. Close the window to return to this page and continue.
Metallic-Minerals with a metallic luster are opaque and reflective, like metal. The metal lic elements, most sulfides, and some oxides belong in this category. Submetallic-Describes a mineral that is opaque to nearly opaque and reflects well. Thin splinters or sections of submetallic minerals are translucent. Pitchy-Minerals with a tar-like appearence have a pitchy luster. Minerals with a pitchy luster are usually radioactive and have gone through the process of metamiction. Waxy-A waxy luster describes a mineral that appears as if it were coated with a layer wax.
Minerals can be described by various physical properties which relate to their chemical structure and composition. Common distinguishing characteristics include crystal structure and habit, hardness, lustre, diaphaneity, colour, streak, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, parting, and specific gravity. More specific tests for minerals include magnetism, taste or smell, radioactivity and reaction to acid. This physical property is controlled by the chemical composition and crystalline structure of a mineral. A mineral's hardness is not necessarily constant for all sides, which is a function of its structure; crystallographic weakness renders some directions softer than others.
Non-defining physical properties or characteristics of minerals include: hardness, luster, cleavage, crystal structure, chemical formula, streak, radioactivity, refraction, magnetism, and pleochroism. 
1. The physical characteristics of minerals include traits which are used to identify and describe mineral species. These traits include color, streak, luster, density, hardness, cleavage, fracture, tenacity, and crystal habit. 
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. This physical property is controlled by the chemical composition and crystalline structure of a mineral. A mineral's hardness is not necessarily constant for all sides, which is a function of its structure; crystallographic weakness renders some directions softer than others.
Mineral Properties. A mineral is a naturally-occurring, inorganic solid which possesses a characteristic internal atomic structure and a definite chemical composition. If we take the definition of a mineral term by term, it becomes easier to understand: 