Also referred to as quota control, it is a method of selecting subjects for a study. The subjects are already chosen for specific characteristics such as age, sex, education, etc. The quota sampling assures the proper proportion of these traits in the group. 
Quota Sampling Defined. Quota sampling is a type of non-probability sampling that involves a two-step process: 1. Specify a list of relevant control categories or quotas such as age, gender, income, or education. A quota is some specific requirement or predefined category. To do this, the researcher selects from two basic sampling methods: probability and non-probability. In probability sampling, each element of the population has a known chance of being selected.
It is very important to be certain that a sample is characteristic of the populace overall. See also: quota sampling; random sampling; sampling population; stratified random sampling. SAMPLING: Sampling must be employed in research studies.. No related posts. 
1 The first step in non-probability quota sampling is to divide the population into exclusive subgroups. 2  Then, the researcher must identify the proportions of these subgroups in the population; this same proportion will be applied in the sampling process. Step-by-step Quota Sampling. 1 
Stratified sampling is a method of sampling from a population in statistics. When sub-populations vary considerably, it is advantageous to sample each subpopulation (stratum) independently. Stratification is the process of grouping members of the population into relatively homogeneous subgroups before sampling. 
Sampling Methods. In the research process, once the researcher decides who to study, they then need to select a sample from a target population. To do this, the researcher selects from two basic sampling methods: probability and non-probability. In probability sampling, each element of the population has a known chance of being selected.
Quota sampling is a non-probability sampling technique wherein the assembled sample has the same proportions of individuals as the entire population with respect to known characteristics, traits or focused phenomenon. Don't miss these related articles: 1  1 Convenience Sampling. Step-by-step Quota Sampling. 1  The first step in non-probability quota sampling is to divide the population into exclusive subgroups. 2  Then, the researcher must identify the proportions of these subgroups in the population; this same proportion will be applied in the sampling process.
Definition. A sampling method of gathering representative data from a group. As opposed to random sampling, quota sampling requires that representative individuals are chosen out of a specific subgroup. For example, a researcher might ask for a sample of 100 females, or 100 individuals between the ages of 20-30
Snowball sampling is a non-probability sampling technique that is used by researchers to identify potential subjects in studies where subjects are hard to locate. 