Optionally, you can specify the application you want to use. Choose Tools Edit PDF Edit. Select the image or object. Select multiple items if you want to edit them together in the same file. To edit all the images and objects on the page, right-click the page, and choose Select All. Under Objects in the right hand panel, click Edit Using and then choose an editor. Select the appropriate tool depending on what you want to move: Image: Choose Tools Edit PDF Edit. When you hover over an image you can edit, the image icon appears in the top left corner. Interactive Objects: To edit form fields, buttons, or other interactive objects, choose Tools Rich Media Select Object.
Adobe Acrobat XI Quick start guide Edit text and images in a PDF file with Adobe ® Acrobat ® XI Edit PDF files intuitively—right from within Acrobat. Easily make changes with a new point-and-click interface. Edit text in a PDF file. 
1 Open the .pdf file in Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2  Click the graphics select tool. 3  Select the graphic that you want to copy, and then click Copy on the Edit menu. 4  In PowerPoint, click the location in which you want to paste the image. 5  Then, click Paste on the Home menu under the Clipboard group. 1 Open the .pdf file in Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2  Press SHIFT, and then click Text Select Tool. 3  Without releasing the mouse, click Graphic Select Tool on the toolbar that appears. 4  When the insertion point changes to a cross-hair icon, draw a rectangle around the graphic. 5  On the Edit menu, click Copy.
1 Open the .pdf file in Adobe Reader. 2  On the Tools menu, select to display the Basic submenu, and then click Select Text. 3  Select all the text in the .pdf file that you want to copy. 4  Alternatively, click Select All on the Edit menu to select all the contents of the file. 5  On the Edit menu, click Copy. 1 Open the .pdf file in Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2  Press SHIFT, and then click Text Select Tool. 3  Without releasing the mouse, click Graphic Select Tool on the toolbar that appears. 4  When the insertion point changes to a cross-hair icon, draw a rectangle around the graphic. 5  On the Edit menu, click Copy.
Choose Tools Edit PDF Add Image. In the Open dialog box, locate the file you want to place. Select the image file, and click Open. Click where you want to place the image, or click-drag to size the image as you place it. A copy of the image file appears on the page, with the same resolution as the original file. Select the appropriate tool depending on what you want to move: Image: Choose Tools Edit PDF Edit. When you hover over an image you can edit, the image icon appears in the top left corner. Interactive Objects: To edit form fields, buttons, or other interactive objects, choose Tools Rich Media Select Object.
Adobe Acrobat XI Quick start guide Edit text and images in a PDF file with Adobe ® Acrobat ® XI Edit PDF files intuitively—right from within Acrobat. Easily make changes with a new point-and-click interface. Edit text in a PDF file Tip: Add a new text box using the Add Text tool. Adobe Systems Incorporated 345 Park Avenue San Jose, CA 95110-2704 USA www.adobe.com Edit an image in a PDF file 1. At the top right in Acrobat, click the Tools pane. Open the Content Editing panel.2
Best Answer: Get Primo PDF creator and all you need to do is make your document in MS Word along with the picture you want in it. Then in file, select print and select primopdf to print it right into a PDF file. Very easy and free. Source(s): http://www.primopdf.com/. 
1 Open the .pdf file in Adobe Acrobat Reader, and then click Export Document to Text on the File menu. 2  Specify a name and a location for the text file, and then click Save. 3  Switch to PowerPoint, and then click Open on the File menu. 4  Locate the text file that was saved, select the file, and then choose Open. 1 Open the .pdf file in Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2  Press SHIFT, and then click Text Select Tool. 3  Without releasing the mouse, click Graphic Select Tool on the toolbar that appears. 4  When the insertion point changes to a cross-hair icon, draw a rectangle around the graphic. 5  On the Edit menu, click Copy.
Acrobat Reader version 5.x. 1  Open the .pdf file in Adobe Acrobat Reader, and then click Export Document to Text on the File menu. 2  Specify a name and a location for the text file, and then click Save. 3  Switch to PowerPoint, and then click Open on the File menu. 1 Open the .pdf file in Adobe Acrobat Reader. 2  Press SHIFT, and then click Text Select Tool. 3  Without releasing the mouse, click Graphic Select Tool on the toolbar that appears. 4  When the insertion point changes to a cross-hair icon, draw a rectangle around the graphic. 5  On the Edit menu, click Copy.