A Dr. Gary Wenk, Psychology, answered. There are numerous ways to prepare coffee, each produces quite different levels of caffeine per average cup. Generally, the minimum dose a human can detect is about 85milligrams of caffeine. One study actually measured the content of caffeine in a 16 oz cup of coffee prepared at a very popular coffee house. The average dose was 188 mg and the range was huge: from 58 to 564 mg of caffeine across six consecutive days. 
Like all coffee drinks, caffeine levels vary greatly-due to variations in coffee blend, exact amount of ground coffee used, and brewing technique. The value of caffeine in brewed coffee featured above is an average, with values generally between 64 and 272 milligrams per cup. 
For a 12 oz cup size – this is quit weak and has considerably less caffeine than a brewed coffee of the same size. Most conscientious coffee vendors serve at least a double-shot in drinks over 8 ounces. Most provide double-shots (by default) in regular takeaway cups. 
Your Average Cup. A 12-ounce cup of coffee that you brew at home contains about 100 to 160 milligrams of caffeine. Use a coffee maker with coffee pods and you're likely to get between 75 and 150 milligrams per cup. Instant coffee contains between 135 and 148 milligrams per cup. Each day about 75 percent of Americans consume coffee, which contains the world's most popular stimulant -- caffeine -- reports Rice University. Although caffeine is generally considered safe, certain people, such as pregnant women or people on certain medications, may need to monitor their intake.
Caffeine in Coffee. The exact amount of caffeine in a cup of coffee will vary depending on how strong you make it, although you’ll typically get roughly 95 milligrams from an 8-ounce freshly brewed cup. On those days when you need that extra kick and order a shot of espresso to add to your coffee, you’ll pack in another 65 milligrams of caffeine from just 1 ounce of espresso. You’ll even get a small amount of caffeine from decaf coffee. One cup of decaf can have close to 10 milligrams of caffeine. While everyone is different and you may be able to handle more caffeine than some others, you should never have more than 600 milligrams in a day, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration reports
Best Answer: The growing location, roasting and brewing method all have an effect on how much caffeine is in coffee. However an average cup of coffee starts at 85 mg and goes up from there. The drip method, with fine ground, used in machines like Mr. Coffee, generally yields the highest amount of caffeine, ranging from 110-150 mg per five ounce cup. Percolated coffee is next highest in caffeine, ranging from 64-124 mg.
Report Abuse. The caffeine content of an average 5 ounce cup of coffee can vary from 40-150 mg. Two influencing factors are the variety of coffee bean and where it is grown; both can be affected by such things as soil conditions, length of growing season, and time of harvest. The drip method, with fine ground, used in machines like Mr. Coffee, generally yields the highest amount of caffeine, ranging from 110-150 mg per five ounce cup. Percolated coffee is next highest in caffeine, ranging from 64-124 mg.
That's roughly the amount of caffeine in four cups of brewed coffee, 10 cans of cola or two energy shot drinks. Although caffeine use may be safe for adults, it's not a good idea for children. And adolescents should limit themselves to no more than 100 mg of caffeine a day. 