1 Vegetable fibers are generally based on arrangements of cellulose, often with lignin: examples include cotton, hemp, jute, flax, ramie, sisal, bagasse, and banana. 2  Plant fibers are employed in the manufacture of paper and textile (cloth), and dietary fiber is an important component of human nutrition. A bundle of optical fibers. Fiber or fibre (from the Latin fibra) is a natural or synthetic string used as a component of composite materials, or, when matted into sheets, used to make products such as paper, papyrus, or felt. Fibers are often used in the manufacture of other materials.
Within skeletal muscle there are three types of fiber: Type I. Type I fibers are also known as slow twitch fibers. They are red in colour due to the presence of large volumes of myoglobin and so oxygen and high numbers of Mitochondria. Type IIa fibers are also sometimes known as fast oxidative fibres and are a hybrid of type I and II fibers. These fibers contain a large number of mitochondria and Myoglobin, hence their red colour.
Understanding Fiber: Two Types of Fiber. There are two types of fiber: soluble and insoluble. It s important to have both in your diet, and, luckily, most fiber–rich plant foods contain a mixture of both, although they are not usually differentiated on food labels. Soluble fiber dissolves or swells when it is put into water. 
Fiber comes in two forms: soluble and insoluble. Many high-fiber foods contain both types of fiber, but most foods have higher amounts of one or the other. If you want to increase your insoluble fiber intake, choose foods that are high in this nutrient. Insoluble fiber is the tough hard-to-chew part of grains and produce. For example, the soft inner part of apples is loaded with soluble fiber, but the outer skin that takes longer for you to chew is high in insoluble fiber.
853 pages on this wiki. Type II muscle fiber is also known as fast twitch muscle fiber. Muscle fiber types can be broken down into two main types: slow twitch (Type I) muscle fibers and fast twitch (Type II) muscle fibers. These fast twitch fibers can be further categorized into Type IIa and Type IIb fibers, which are also known as fast twitch oxidative and fast twitch glycolytic, respectively. Type IIB Fibers Edit. Type IIb fast-twitch fibers, or fast glycolytic fibres (also known as Type IIx), are recruited for very short-duration high-intensity bursts of power such as maximal and near-maximal lifts and short sprints.
Natural fibers include those produced by plants, animals, and geological processes and can be classified according to their origin: 1  Vegetable fibers are generally based on arrangements of cellulose, often with lignin: examples include cotton, hemp, jute, flax, ramie, sisal, bagasse, and banana. A bundle of optical fibers. Fiber or fibre (from the Latin fibra) is a natural or synthetic string used as a component of composite materials, or, when matted into sheets, used to make products such as paper, papyrus, or felt. Fibers are often used in the manufacture of other materials.
Type I Muscle Fiber. 853 pages on this wiki. Type I muscle fiber is also known as slow twitch oxidative fibers. Muscle fiber types can be broken down into two main types: slow twitch (Type I) muscle fibers and fast twitch (Type II) muscle fibers. Type I fibers are used in lower-intensity exercises such as very light resistance work aimed at muscular endurance and long-duration aerobic activities such as 5K and 10K runs. 
There are two main types of fiber found in foods: insoluble and soluble. Insoluble Fiber. Insoluble fiber is found in whole grains and on the outside of seeds, fruits, legumes, and other foods. It is also called roughage. Its job is to hold onto water in your digestive system. Soluble Fiber. The other type of fiber is soluble fiber. It is found in fruits, vegetables, seeds, brown rice, barley, oats, and oat bran. It works by passing through the intestine and forming a gel like substance. Fiber and digestive enzymes made by the liver form this gel