birth. a coming into being; the act or process of being born. See also parturition. birth canal. the canal through which the fetus passes in birth; comprising the uterus, cervix, vagina and vulva. premature birth. expulsion of the fetus from the uterus before termination of the normal gestation period, but after independent existence has become a possibility. In humans prematurity is defined as a pregnancy of less than 37 weeks in a pregnancy normally lasting 40 weeks.
Symptoms. Fetal macrosomia is difficult to detect and diagnose during pregnancy. Possible signs and symptoms include: 1  Large fundal height. 2  During prenatal visits, your health care provider might measure your fundal height — the distance from the top of your uterus to your pubic bone. 3  A fundal height that measures larger than expected could be a sign of fetal macrosomia. 
Suspected Large Baby: Fetal Macrosomia. Obstetricians and sonographers must keep careful track of the baby’s growth throughout the pregnancy. A baby who is developing too slowly or growing too quickly may need intervention in order to prevent serious medical complications. 
Background. The term macrosomia is used to describe a newborn with an excessive birth weight. A diagnosis of fetal macrosomia can be made only by measuring birth weight after delivery; therefore, the condition is confirmed only retrospectively, ie, after delivery of the neonate. 
Macrosomia: Introduction. Macrosomia: Macrosomia refers to a baby that is large for gestational age as the consequence of a pathological process. See detailed information below for a list of 21 causes of Macrosomia, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
Macrosomia (big baby). The average newborn weight is about 3.4 kilograms (kg) / 7 pounds (lb) 8 ounces (oz). Babies weighing more than 4.5kg/ 9lb 15oz at birth are considered much larger than average or macrosomic, which literally means of large body. 
Introduction. Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that affects women during pregnancy. Diabetes is a condition where there is too much glucose (sugar) in the blood. Normally, the amount of glucose in the blood is controlled by a hormone called insulin. Gestational diabetes is first diagnosed during pregnancy. The two other main types of diabetes are: 1  type 1 diabetes – when the body produces no insulin at all (often referred to as juvenile diabetes or early-onset diabetes).
Postpartum gestational diabetes (GDM) Macrosomia shoulder dystocia estimated fetal weight (EFW). Macrosomia is the term used to define an infant that measures more than 8 pounds 13 ounces or 4,000 grams (4 kg) at birth. Some definitions use 4,5000 grams (9lb 15oz) as cutoff. 