Pregnancy is measured in trimesters from the first day of your last menstrual period, totaling 40 weeks. The first trimester of pregnancy is week 1 through week 12, or about 3 months. The second trimester is week 13 to week 27. And the third trimester of pregnancy spans from week 28 to the birth. Your baby will change from week to week.
When Is a Pregnancy Considered Full Term. While 40 weeks is a full term pregnancy, many OB/GYNs consider a pregnancy full term and safe to deliver between 38-40 weeks of gestation. The risk of complications during and after delivery is much lower after a pregnancy has reached the 38th week. 
Human pregnancy can be divided roughly into three trimesters, each approximately three months long. The first trimester is from the last period to the 13th week, the second trimester is from the 14th to 27th week, and the third trimester is from the 28th week to the 42nd week. Gestation is the carrying of an embryo or fetus inside female viviparous animals. It is typical for mammals, but also occurs for some non-mammals. Mammals during pregnancy can have one or more gestations at the same time (multiple gestations). The time interval of a gestation is called the gestation period. In human obstetrics, gestational age refers to the embryonic or fetal age plus two weeks. This is approximately the duration since the woman's last menstrual period (LMP) began
40 weeks from the first day of your last period.  as said by brain child is correct. that is how the due date is calculated. However, sometimes babies come early and the actual time spent in the womb will then vary. Usually a baby born after 37 weeks will have no health issues etc so it is a safe time to deliver. Therefore, when we say you are 10 weeks pregnant, you have actually conceived 8 weeks ago. Based on this type of calculation, a pregnancy will have the expected date of delivery at 40 completed weeks but a pregnancy that has completed 37 weeks is considered full term already.
Best Answer: a normal pregnancy should last 38 weeks if you count from the day of conception. However, the day of conception is not always easy to determine, especially in the ancient past. Therefore, when we say you are 10 weeks pregnant, you have actually conceived 8 weeks ago. Based on this type of calculation, a pregnancy will have the expected date of delivery at 40 completed weeks but a pregnancy that has completed 37 weeks is considered full term already.
A multiple pregnancy involves more than one offspring, such as with twins. Pregnancy can occur by sexual intercourse or assisted reproductive technology. It usually lasts around 40 weeks from the last menstrual period (LMP) and ends in childbirth. This is just over 9 lunar months, where each month is about 29½ days. About 213 million pregnancies occurred in 2012, of which, 190 million were in the developing world and 23 million were in the developed world. This is about 133 pregnancies per 1,000 women between the ages of 15 and 44. About 10% to 15% of recognized pregnancies end in miscarriage.
Likely date of conception: End of your first trimester (12 weeks): End of your second trimester (27 weeks): Your baby is due on (40 weeks): Number of weeks you have been pregnant for: Calculate how many weeks you will be pregnant on a given date. Number of weeks you will be pregnant for: Calculate the date you will be pregnant for (input x) number of weeks. The formula to estimate the due date of a baby is calculated by adding 266 days to ovulation (Ovulation Calculator), or 280 days to the first day of your last menstrual cycle. Human female pregnancy lasts 40 weeks on average.