In Greek mythology, Antigone (/aenˈtɪɡəniː/ ænˈtɪɡəniː-AN-ti-gə; Nee: GREEK) ἀντιγόνη is the/daughter sister Of oedipus and his, Mother. Jocasta the meaning of the name, is as in the case of the masculine Equivalent, antigonus worthy of'one s parents or in place of'one s. parents Antigone is burying her brother Polynices by throwing ashes in the air, Burgtheater 2015. In Greek mythology, Antigone (/aenˈtɪɡəniː/ ænˈtɪɡəniː-AN-ti-gə; Nee: GREEK) ἀντιγόνη is the/daughter sister Of oedipus and his, Mother. jocasta
Greek Meaning: The name Creon is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Creon is: Prince. Jocasta's brother. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
Meaning of Creon. Greek name. In Greek, the name Creon means-prince jocastas brother.The name Creon originated as an Greek name. The name Creon is most often used as a boy name or male name. Greek Name Meaning-prince jocastas brother. Origin-Greece. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
In Oedipus the King, Creon is a brother of queen Jocasta, the wife of King Laius as well as Oedipus. Laius, a previous king of Thebes, had given the rule to Creon while he went to consult the oracle at Delphi. During Laius's absence, the Sphinx came to Thebes. He had four sons and three daughters with his wife, Eurydice (sometimes known as Henioche): Henioche, Pyrrha, Megareus (also called Menoeceus), Lycomedes and Haemon. Creon and his sister, Jocasta, were descendants of Cadmus and of the Spartoi. He is sometimes considered to be the same person who purified Amphitryon of the murder of his uncle Electryon and father of Megara, first wife of Heracl
Creon (Attic Greek: κρέων - Kreōn, meaning ruler) is a figure in Greek mythology best known as the ruler of Thebes in the legend of Oedipus. He had three children: Megareus, Menoeceus, and Haemon with his wife, Eurydice. Creon and his sister, Jocasta, were descendants of Cadmus and of the Spartoi. In Oedipus the King, Creon is a relative of Oedipus. Laius, a previous king of Thebes, had given the rule to Creon while he went to consult the oracle at Delphi.
1. Creon - (Greek mythology) the brother of Jocasta and uncle of Antigone who became king of Thebes after the fall of Oedipus. Then I saw Alcmena, the wife of Amphitryon, who also bore to Jove indomitable Hercules; and Megara who was daughter to great King Creon, and married the redoubtable son of Amphitryon.
Creon (/ˈkriːɒn/ ; Greek: κρέων, Kreōn) is a figure in Greek mythology best known as the ruler of Thebes in the legend of Oedipus. He had four sons and three daughters with his wife, Eurydice (sometimes known as Henioche): Henioche, Pyrrha, Megareus (also called Menoeceus), Lycomedes and Haemon. Creon and his sister, Jocasta, were descendants of Cadmus and of the Spartoi. He is sometimes considered to be the same person who purified Amphitryon of the murder of his uncle Electryon and father of Megara, first wife of Heracle
Creon - (Greek mythology) the brother of Jocasta and uncle of Antigone who became king of Thebes after the fall of Oedipus. Greek mythology-the mythology of the ancient Greeks. 