Directions. Enter temperature to be converted in degrees Fahrenheit (°F) or Celsius (°C aka centigrade) in box. Select either Fahrenheit or Celsius button to perform conversion. Press convert button to display result at bottom
Fahrenheit is a thermodynamic temperature scale, where the freezing point of water is 32 degrees Fahrenheit (°F) and the boiling point 212°F (at standard atmospheric pressure). This puts the boiling and freezing points of water exactly 180 degrees apart. 
How to convert Celsius to Fahrenheit. The temperature T in degrees Fahrenheit (F) is equal to the temperature T in degrees Celsius (C) times 9/5 plus 32: T (F) = T (C) × 9/5 + 32. or. T (F) = T (C) × 1.8 + 32. Celsius (C) to Fahrenheit (F) , how to convert & conversion table. The temperature T in degrees Fahrenheit (F) is equal to the temperature T in degrees Celsius (C) times 9/5 plus 32:
Tc = (5/9)*(Tf-32); Tc = temperature in degrees Celsius, Tf = temperature in degrees Fahrenheit. For example, suppose you have a Fahrenheit temperature of 98.6 degrees and you wanted to convert it into degrees on the Celsius scale. Using the above formula, you would first subtract 32 from the Fahrenheit temperature and get 66.6 as a result. Then you multiply 66.6 by five-ninths and get the converted value of 37 degrees Celsius. Below is the formula to convert a Celsius scale temperature into degrees on the Fahrenheit scale. Tf = (9/5)*Tc+32; Tc = temperature in degrees Celsius, Tf = temperature in degrees Fahrenheit. Assume that you have a Celsius scale temperature of 100 degrees and you wish to convert it into degrees on the Fahrenheit scale
The Celsius and Kelvin Relation on the scale is. To convert Celsius to kelvin formula we use the relation. Kelvin to Celsius formula is used to convert the temperature given in Kelvin to degree Celsius. The Melting point 0oC on the absolute scale is 273K and the boiling point 100oC is 373K. 
How to convert Fahrenheit to Celsius. The temperature T in degrees Celsius (C) is equal to the temperature T in degrees Fahrenheit (F) minus 32, times 5/9: T (C) = (T (F) - 32) × 5/9. or
Temperature is measured in Fahrenheit and Celsius scale. Fahrenheit is a temperature scale used mostly in the USA. The difference between the freezing point and boiling point of water is 180 fahrenheit degress where the boiling point of water is 212 °F and the freezing point of water is 32 °F. This means that one degree on the fahrenheit scale is 1/180th of the difference between the freezing and boiling point of water. Fahrenheit to Celsius Formula. The formula to convert Fahrenheit to Celsius is given by. The Formula to convert Celsius to Fahrenheit is given by. The kelvin to Fahrenheit formula is given by. The degree Celsius is denoted as oC and degree Fahrenheit is denoted as F. The relation between Fahrenheit and Celsius is 1o C = 1.8o F