Eastern Chipmunk Genus: Tamias Species: striatus. The Eastern chipmunk is a very cute little animal. It is a ground-dwelling squirrel about 5-6 inches long and weighing about 3 ounces. It is a brownish-red color. Its head has two white stripes above and below the eye. Its ears are short and rounded and stick straight up on its head. 
chipmunks are not endangered. they reproduce rapidly, due to this they are not endangered. plus humans don't use them for much. but we are destroying their habitats that might … lead to them being endangered in years... Chipmunk A member of the tribe Marmotini in the rodent family Sciuridae. There are 18 species. The eastern chipmunk (Tamias striatus) is found in wooded areas of east … ern Canada and the United States.
In Illinois, thirteen-lined ground squirrels and eastern chipmunks are not protected by the Wildlife Code. The Franklin's ground squirrel is protected by the Illinois Endangered Species Act. Like tree squirrels, the eastern chipmunk has two breeding seasons, one in spring and the other in late summer. Chipmunk gestation is 31 days with five to six young per litter. Chipmunks are weaned at six weeks of age.
Chipmunk is a type of ground squirrel. If not in the wild, chipmunks can be easily recognized as Chip and Dale, two cartoon characters created by Walt Disney. There are 25 species of chipmunks. 24 of them originate from North America, remaining one from Asia. Palmer's chipmunk is on the list of vulnerable species (it may become endangered in the near future). Interesting Chipmunk Facts: Chipmunks are the smallest members of the squirrel family. Smallest species has 1.1 to 1.8 ounces of weight and reaches 7.2 to 8.5 inches in length.
According to the IUCN's Red List, only one chipmunk species is endangered. The Palmer's chipmunk, Tamias (Neotamias) palmeri, is found only on one small mountain range, the Spring Mountains in southwestern Nevada. Habitat. There are 25 species of chipmunk, according to National Geographic. Only one of those species, called the Siberian chipmunk, lives outside of North America. The Siberian chipmunk lives in Asia and is expanding into parts of Europe, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
Chipmunks are threatened by habitat loss via deforestation. Palmer's chipmunk is on the list of vulnerable species (it may become endangered in the near future). Interesting Chipmunk Facts: Chipmunks are the smallest members of the squirrel family. Smallest species has 1.1 to 1.8 ounces of weight and reaches 7.2 to 8.5 inches in length.
Of the 25 species of chipmunks, all but one, Asia’s Tamias sibiricus, is found in North America. Ranging from Canada to Mexico, they are generally seen scampering through the undergrowth of a variety of environments from alpine forests to shrubby deserts. Lively and speedy critters, chipmunks are small members of the squirrel family. Their pudgy cheeks, large, glossy eyes, stripes, and bushy tails have made them a favorite among animators, and landed them a series of starring roles in Hollywood.
Identification. Fifteen species of native chipmunks of the genus Eutamias and one of the genus Tamias are found in North America. The eastern chipmunk (Tamias striatus) and the least chipmunk (Eutamias minimas) are the two most widely distributed and notable species. 
Some chipmunks are listed as endangered because its extent of  occurrence is less than 5,000 km. They are often restricted to one  small mountain range, and there is an imme … diate threat of urban  expansion and development. 1 person found this useful. chipmunks are not endangered. they reproduce rapidly, due to this they are not endangered. plus humans don't use them for much. but we are destroying their habitats that might … lead to them being endangered in years... + 9 others found this useful.