Riding in the peloton takes knowledge, fitness and know-how. For many enthusiast riders, taking that next step and showing up for a group ride is the best way to not only meet other cyclists, but to take your riding to the next level. 1. Relax. Relax in the peloton and learn to move with the flow of the group. Once you have some experience riding in a group you will soon realize it has a certain dynamic to it. You will quickly be able to find the spots with the most draft, away from the wind, and the spots where it is the safest to ride.
The word ‘peloton’ is used to describe the main group of riders in a road bicycle race. It is derived from the French language, in which it means ‘little ball’ or ‘platoon’. A group of riders may also be referred to as the pack, field or bunch, but peloton is the most commonly used term. The peloton travels as an integrated unit, however win contenders and sprinters often break away from the group to get ahead in th
The peloton (from French, meaning little ball or platoon and cognate to the English word pellet) is the main group or pack of riders in a road bicycle race. Riders in a group save energy by riding close (drafting or slipstreaming) near (particularly behind) other riders. The peloton travels as an integrated unit (similar in some respects to birds flying in formation) with each rider making slight adjustments in response to their adjacent riders (particularly the one in front of each).
Full Definition of PELOTON. : the main body of riders in a bicycle race. See peloton defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Peloton. The peloton, field, bunch or pack is the main group of riders in a road bicycle race. Riders in a group save energy by riding close near other riders. The reduction in drag is dramatic; in the middle of a well-developed group it can be as much as 40%. The term is also used to refer to professional cyclists in general. 
The front rider in the peloton takes the brunt of the wind and air, cutting wind drag for rear riders by up to 40 percent. The peloton changes shape with the winds. A headwind narrows the peloton, so fewer riders must battle the wind. A backwind widens the peloton, so more riders take advantage of the push. When that flow is broken, reaction time is limited and we often crash. Boston — 'Peloton’ can refer to two things: either the whole pack of 219 riders from 22 teams participating in the Tour de France, or the V-shaped main pack of riders drafting off one another. Peloton literally means little ball or platoon. During the Tour, it a thing of beauty and danger
The word peloton means flying ball in French.The peloton in any bike race is the main body of riders. In the Tour de France, which is one of the most prestigious bike races in the world, the peloton may encompass as many as 200 riders depending on the field. The word can also refer to the global body of professional cyclists in general.