The extract is taken from the rind of the garcinia cambogia – which is a pumpkin-like fruit found in the regions of Indonesia and South East Asia. The extract contains the acid Hydroxycitric Acid or HCA, which is the key ingredient to weight loss. Because of the popularity of garcinia cambogia, there are many brands that may add some additives to the supplements that can lead to certain side effects. Therefore, there are certain things that you need to consider: 1  Check for at least 60% HCA – any less and your supplement will be ineffective.
If there is one minor Garcinia Cambogia side effects that some people notice, it is that eating large meals become somewhat difficult, simply because your stomach shrinks as a result of your unintentional diet. 
There are very few reported Garcinia cambogia side effects and the fruit, and its extract, are considered safe for almost everyone. After all, Garcinia cambogia has been around for quite some time. But before you start taking the supplement, read on to know more about documented side effects. 
Garcinia cambogia extract is made from the dried rind of the fruit also called garcinia cambogia. It is sometimes referred to as gummi gutta or malabar tamarind. The fruit can be found in the tropical regions of South Asia, specifically India, Indonesia, and Malaysia. Worldwide Shipping Available! Garcinia side effects exist if you choose a brand that doesn't adhere to the standards set in the industry. Give yourself a side effect-free product by choosing Garcinia Cambogia Slim Fast and get started on your way to your best body in just 4 weeks.
Garcinia Cambogia has side effects so make sure you read this article and know what they are before you decide to give it a try…. People are raving about Garcinia Cambogia, the tropical fruit extract that is supposed to help people start losing weight almost immediately. 
Garcinia Cambogia Extract Side Effects. Garcinia cambogia is an herb included in several supplements for weight loss and fat burning. Derived from the rind of the gamboge fruit, which is native to Asia, Garcinia cambogia extract also is used to lower high cholesterol. The active ingredient, which might have benefits for weight loss, is hydroxycitric acid (HCA). Garcinia cambogia extract is generally safe and side effects are rare. High-Dose Side Effects. Excessive consumption of Garcinia cambogia extract can cause gastrointestinal side effects, according to EMedTV and Green Herbal Remedies. People taking large amounts of this herb might experience stomach or intestinal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Headaches are another possible side effect
Popular for a variety of health benefits, there are very few side effects of garcinia cambogia in comparison. This Buzzle article discusses the positive and negative effects of this herbal supplement. The benefits of garcinia cambogia fruit and its extract are several compared to its side effects. They are: Garcinia cambogia extract is available in the form of capsules and is also a common ingredient in several weight loss supplements.
Check if the product is Made in the USA – some reports of side effects come from brands made outside the US, which are filled with binders and additives. So make sure the product is made in a certified lab in the US. Listed above are the most important things to look for when you check garcinia cambogia supplement. Because of the popularity of garcinia cambogia, there are many brands that may add some additives to the supplements that can lead to certain side effects. Therefore, there are certain things that you need to consider: 1  Check for at least 60% HCA – any less and your supplement will be ineffective.