The American Civil War, widely known in the United States as simply the Civil War as well as other sectional names, was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 to determine the survival of the Union or independence for the Confederacy. 
A-It showed that the national government was weak and ineffective. illustrated how states were unable to make adequate decisions. C-It highlighted how the national government was the sovereign power. D-It revealed that national and state governments could not work together.
It showed that the national government was weak and ineffective. It illustrated how states were unable to make adequate decisions. It highlighted how the national government was the sovereign power. It revealed that national and state governments could not work together. 
Influence of the American Civil War. From 1861 to 1865 the United States was embroiled in an internal conflict that divided that country. 
A) It showed that the national government was weak and ineffective. B) It illustrated how states were unable to make adequate decisions. C) It highlighted how the national government was the sovereign power. D) It revealed that national and state governments could not work together.
More importantly, the result of the Civil War was to determine if the US was going to split into two countries, The United States of America and The Confederate States of America. After the Civil War, the northern Carpetbaggers came to the South to help them recover from the war, they gave the south roads, introduced factories, and education. In the long run, the factories that were introduced to the south contributes today to the grown southern economy.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Civil War affected the United Sates in a ton of ways. Right after the Civil War, during the Reconstruction era, the Civil War helped modernize the South. Before the Civil War, the South was mostly rural area and lacked transportation. After the Civil War, the northern Carpetbaggers came to the South to help them recover from the war, they gave the south roads, introduced factories, and education. In the long run, the factories that were introduced to the south contributes today to the grown southern economy.
The Civil War influenced the role of government in the United States because it highlighted how the national government was the sovereign power. Following efforts by states to succeed and establish their own system of government the national government of the U.S. asserted is dominance and defeated the southern belligerents, thereby reasserting its dominance over politics and government in the United States following the war. 1  Comments (1). 2  Report.