Hertz Global Holdings, Inc. is a holding company. The Company operates car rental business through its Hertz, Dollar, Thrifty and Firefly brands. The Company's operating segments are U.S. Car Rental, International Car Rental, Worldwide Equipment Rental and All Other Operations. Its Dollar and Thrifty brands combined have approximately 1,380 corporate and franchisee locations in 77 countries and Firefly brand has approximately 105 corporate and franchisee locations in 12 countries. Its equipment rental business is operated through the Hertz Equipment Rental brand.
The Hertz Corporation rents and leases cars and trucks in the United States and internationally. It operates in four segments: U.S. Car Rental, International Car Rental, Worldwide Equipment Rental, and All Other Operations. The company serves construction, industrial, engineering, oil and gas, petrochemical, railroads, entertainment and special events, and government sectors. The company was founded in 1918 and is headquartered in Naples, Florida. The Hertz Corporation operates as a subsidiary of Hertz Investors, Inc..
Who we are: Hertz operates its car rental business through the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands from approximately 10,600 corporate, licensee and franchisee locations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and New Zealand. If you’re looking for a challenging role in an exciting organization, then Hertz is the company for you. A truly global company with a passion for delivering premium service to our customers, Hertz has been leading the way in the car and equipment rental industry for over 90 years.
Hertz operates the Hertz, Dollar, Thrifty and Firefly car rental brands in more than 10,300 corporate and licensee locations throughout approximately 150 countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and New Zealand. Hertz is the largest worldwide airport general use car rental company with more than 1,600 airport locations in the U.S. and more than 1,300 airport locations internationally.
The Hertz Corporation, a subsidiary of Hertz Global Holdings Inc is an American car rental company with international locations in 145 countries worldwide. The company is based in Estero, Florida. Hertz is the largest U.S. car rental company by sales. On May 7, 2013, it was announced that Hertz would relocate its corporate headquarters to Estero, just outside Fort Myers in Southwest Florida. In 1967, The Hertz Corporation became a wholly owned subsidiary of RCA but was operated as a separate entity. In 1985, Hertz joined UAL Corporation. On December 30, 1987, Hertz was sold to 'Park Ridge Corporation', which was then owned by Ford Motor Company and members of Hertz senior management.
Hertz operates its car rental business through the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands from approximately 10,600 corporate, licensee and franchisee locations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and New Zealand. Hertz is the number one airport car rental brand in the U.S. and at 111 major airports in Europe. If you’re looking for a challenging role in an exciting organization, then Hertz is the company for you.
Hertz also maintains a heavy equipment rental division known as the Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, aka HERC. It is headquartered in Park Ridge, New Jersey, United States. HERC has more than 200 branches throughout the United States, Canada, the European Union, and China. In 1967, The Hertz Corporation became a wholly owned subsidiary of RCA but was operated as a separate entity. In 1985, Hertz joined UAL Corporation. On December 30, 1987, Hertz was sold to 'Park Ridge Corporation', which was then owned by Ford Motor Company and members of Hertz senior management.
The Company also owns Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation (“HERC”), one of the largest equipment rental businesses with more than 350 locations worldwide offering a diverse line of equipment and tools for rent and sale. HERC primarily serves the construction, industrial, oil, gas, entertainment and government sectors. Hertz is the largest worldwide airport general use car rental company with more than 1,600 airport locations in the U.S. and more than 1,300 airport locations internationally.
Thank you for your interest in The Hertz Corporation. Here you will find information including current facts, figures, and historical data that allow you to learn more about the company from which you're renting a car or truck or equipment, or leasing a vehicle. Visit us often for informative updates! • Hertz Car Sales®: Selling one-year old vehicles from the Hertz fleet at low prices. • Hertz Truck & Van Rental: Whether you are moving across town or making large deliveries, we are here to help. So whether you're renting a car or thinking about buying one, here you will find everything you need to know.