That's why blood looks red (it has iron and oxygen in it), and it's also why rusty iron looks red (the rust is iron that has combined with oxygen from the air or water). And that's the way Greek black-figure and red-figure vase painting works. When the supernova explodes, it shoots out carbon, oxygen, and iron atoms all over the Universe, and eventually gravity sucks these atoms into new planets like Earth. All of the iron on Earth was originally inside stars.
There are two forms of iron that exist in the world. One is a magnetic metal which is silver-white in color and is commonly used in construction and for tools and armaments. Often found as a compound with other rocks known as ore it is used as alloy with other metals to create various different everyday items. The other is a mineral that is needed to help red blood cells deliver oxygen to our bodies. The mineral of iron comes in two forms haem and non-haem. It comes in two different forms heme and non-haem. Haem iron is found in animal products such as oysters, meat, poultry and fish. Non-haem iron is found in fruits and vegetables particularly dried fruits, molasses, and leafy green vegetables such as spinach and of course in iron supplements.
where does iron come from, how is it extracted from the ground and in what form. please help me. Follow. where does iron come from, how is it extracted from the ground and in what form. please help me. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service.
As with most other metals iron is mined from beneath the earth surface. Approximately 10% of the earth crust is made up of iron making it one of the most abundant elements. Iron comes from iron ore which is a combination of the element iron and other metals and rock. This ore is then refined to extract the pure iron. This is done through the process of smelting. It comes in two different forms heme and non-haem. Haem iron is found in animal products such as oysters, meat, poultry and fish. Non-haem iron is found in fruits and vegetables particularly dried fruits, molasses, and leafy green vegetables such as spinach and of course in iron supplements.
All living things-both plants and animals-also contain iron. Plants use iron to help them pull energy from sunlight through their leaves, and animals (including people) use iron to move oxygen through their bodies and bring energy to their cells. When the supernova explodes, it shoots out carbon, oxygen, and iron atoms all over the Universe, and eventually gravity sucks these atoms into new planets like Earth. All of the iron on Earth was originally inside stars.
When a red giant star has changed all of its helium into carbon and oxygen, it then begins to turn the carbon and oxygen atoms into iron Atoms. Iron is the heaviest kind of atom that a star can make, so when a star has made most of its carbon and oxygen into iron, it becomes a supernova and explodes. When the supernova explodes, it shoots out carbon, oxygen, and iron atoms all over the Universe, and eventually gravity sucks these atoms into new planets like Earth. All of the iron on Earth was originally inside stars.
Iron ore is the raw material used to make pig iron, which is one of the main raw materials to make steel. 98% of the mined iron ore is used to make steel. Indeed, it has been argued that iron ore is more integral to the global economy than any other commodity, except perhaps oil. The ores are usually rich in iron oxides and vary in color from dark grey, bright yellow, deep purple, to rusty red. The iron itself is usually found in the form of magnetite (Fe 3O 4, 72.4% Fe), hematite (Fe 2O 3, 69.9% Fe), goethite (FeO(OH) , 62.9% Fe), limonite (FeO(OH).n(H2O)) or siderite (FeCO3, 48.2% Fe).
Iron (Fe) is the second most common metal on Earth, and the most widely-used metal. It is element 26, a transition metal in Group 8. Its symbol is Fe, from the Latin word for iron, ferrum. Its atomic number is 26 and its mass number is 55.85. It is used a lot because it is very strong and cheap. 
The primary use of iron ore is in the production of iron. Most of the iron produced is then used to make steel. Steel is used to make automobiles, locomotives, ships, beams used in buildings, furniture, paper clips, tools, reinforcing rods for concrete, bicycles, and thousands of other items.