You can take money out of your Roth IRA anytime you want. However, you need to be careful how much you withdraw or you may get stuck with a penalty. In order to make qualified distributions in retirement, you must be at least 59½ years old, and at least five years must have passed since you first began contributing.
Age 59 1/2 Rule and Five-Year Rule. You can withdraw your contributions to a Roth IRA at any time under any circumstances. Earnings, however, are another story. You must reach the age of 59 1/2, and your Roth IRA must have been open for five years, before you can take out any earnings with no taxes or penalties. If you withdraw earnings before five years have passed, you will be subject to a 10 percent penalty plus ordinary income tax.
For example, if you convert $15,000 to your Roth IRA from your traditional IRA and you take out that $15,000 before five years pass, you'll owe $1,500 in early-withdrawal penalties, but no additional income tax. This penalty is waived if you're at least 59 1/2 when you take the distribution.
If you convert money from a tax-deferred retirement account to a Roth IRA, you must wait at least five years before taking distributions of the converted amounts to avoid the 10 percent early withdrawal penalty.
If you convert money from another account to a Roth IRA before age 59 1/2, you must wait five years from the date of the conversion to withdraw the converted monies penalty free. If you turn 59 1/2 before five years have passed, you are eligible to take a distribution tax and penalty-free.
You can withdraw up to $100,000 from your IRA without any wait if you deposit your withdrawal into an eligible Fidelity non-retirement account. Or, use the Electronic Funds Transfer service (if established for your IRA) to transfer the money to your bank account.
For example, if you made a Roth IRA contribution in February 2002 and designated it for the 2001 tax year, you would have to wait until January 1st, 2006 in order to withdraw your Roth IRA earnings tax free.