Aurora borealis occurs in the layer of the atmosphere called the  Thermosphere. Ionized particles from the sun are drawn to the  magnetic poles of Earth, which gives us the … spectacular Northern  Lights.
Its southern counterpart, aurora australis, has similar properties. The cause of the aurora is charged particles from the solar wind, accelerated by the Earth's magnetic field, colliding with atoms in the upper atmosphere causing them to glow as they release their surplus energy. 17 people found this useful.
Aurora Borealis   The Aurora Borealis is a display of colored lights in the sky, also called northern lights, caused by the interaction of particles from the sun with the … upper atmosphere near the North Pole.
The aurora australis or Southern Lights are seen in the southern hemisphere. The light you see comes from photons released by oxygen and nitrogen in the upper atmosphere. Energetic particles from the solar wind strike the layer of the atmosphere called the ionosphere, ionizing the atoms and molecules. When the ions return to the ground state, energy released as light produces the aurora.
As the process of fusion occurs inside the sun, it spews high-energy particles (ions, electrons, protons, neutrinos) and radiation in the solar wind. When the sun's activity is high, you'll also see large eruptions called solar flares and coronal mass ejections.
Confidence votes 51.9K. Auroras are caused by radiation from the sun, called solar wind, interacting with Earth's magnetic field. When magnetic storms occur on the Sun, electrically charged particles (ions) from the corona and solar flares are added to the solar wind produced by the corona.
How our atmosphere evolved continued… Today’s atmosphere Layers of the Atmosphere Basis for Layers Slide 8 Characteristics of layers Thermosphere has 2 parts: Aurora Borealis  A glow in the night sky produced in the upper atmosphere by ionized particles from the solar wind interacting with Earth’s magnetic field.
Together, the Sun's magnetic field and particles are called the solar wind.. This wind is always pushing on the Earth's magnetic field, changing its shape. You change the shape of a soap bubble in a similar way when you blow on its surface. We call this compressed field around the earth the magnetosphere.