Reconstruction (1866-1877). Celebrate the trees in your neighborhood, like this Mimosa Tree. First Arbor Day April 10, 1872. Go out and plant a tree today--a pine, an elm, an oak, a mimosa--it doesn't matter what kind.On April 10, 1872, Nebraskans celebrated the first Arbor Day by planting more than a million trees. Julius Sterling Morton, a newspaper editor and former governor, saw his dream fulfilled after years of asking Congress to designate a day to encourage the planting of trees. 
National Arbor Day is celebrated every year on the last Friday in April; in Nebraska, it is a civic holiday. Each state celebrates its own state holiday. Arbor Day was founded in 1872 by Julius Sterling Morton in Nebraska City, Nebraska. By the 1920s, each state in the United States had passed public laws that stipulated a certain day to be Arbor Day or Arbor and Bird Day observance.
Arbor Day is a nationally celebrated observance that promotes tree planting and tree care, and also highlights the importance of trees to our environment, our economy and our quality of life. Founded by J. Sterling Morton in Nebraska in 1872, National Arbor Day is celebrated each year on the last Friday in April. This Arbor Day, the City of Albany is especially grateful for the $250,000 awarded us through New York State's Environmental Protection Fund to improve Tivoli Lake Preserve, an urban woodland area that is a diamond in the rough, said Albany Mayor Kathy Sheehan.
Since 1977, New Zealand has celebrated Arbor Day on June 5, which is also World Environment Day, prior to then Arbor Day, in New Zealand, was celebrated on August 4 – which is rather late in the year for tree planting in New Zealand hence the date change. Arbor Day was founded in 1872 by Julius Sterling Morton in Nebraska City, Nebraska. By the 1920s, each state in the United States had passed public laws that stipulated a certain day to be Arbor Day or Arbor and Bird Day observance.
Arbor Day is a national holiday created to recognize the importance of trees. It is celebrated every year on the last Friday in April. The most common way people celebrate Arbor Day is to get together in groups to plant trees. The day was the brainchild of Julius Sterling Morton, a Nebraskan journalist who later became the U.S. Agriculture Secretary under President Grover Cleveland.
The first Arbor Day took place on April 10, 1872 in Nebraska. It was the brainchild of Julius Sterling Morton (1832-1902), a Nebraska journalist and politician originally from Michigan. Today all 50 states celebrate Arbor Day although the dates may vary in keeping with the local climate. (State Arbor Days) At the federal level, in 1970, President Richard Nixon proclaimed the last Friday in April as National Arbor Day.
Arbor Day is a nationally celebrated observance that encourages tree planting and tree care and highlights the importance of trees to our environment, our economy and our quality of life. Founded by J. Sterling Morton in Nebraska in 1872, National Arbor Day is celebrated each year on the last Friday in April. 
On January 4, 1872, he proposed a holiday to plant trees on April 10 that year. This was known as Arbor Day and prizes were awarded to the counties and individuals who planted the most trees on the day. About one million trees were planted in Nebraska on the first Arbor Day. In 1885, Arbor Day became a legal holiday and was moved to April 22, which was Morton's birthday. In 1989 the official state holiday was moved to the last Friday in April. 
Happy Arbor Day! Arbor Day is the last Friday in April each year. It all began in Nebraska in 1872. A special day was set aside for planting trees. This tree planting idea caught on and now we celebrate Arbor Day every year. Arbor Day in Wisconsin is celebrated on the last Friday in April. Adapted from the National Arbor Day Curriculum Packet, National Arbor Day Foundation, Lincoln, NE.