My LPR problems were bad before PPIs, took me over 6 months to get to the point of almost okey. Everything was kind of okey before surgery, but I was on 60-80 mg of PPI and I don´t want to depend on such a high dose of medicine and not get fully helped. Thats why I had the surgery. 
Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) are a group of drugs whose main action is a pronounced and long-lasting reduction of gastric acid production. They are the most potent inhibitors of acid secretion available. High dose and/or long-term use of PPIs carries a possible increased risk of bone fractures which was not found with short-term, low dose use; the FDA included a warning regarding this on PPI drug labels in 2010.
Omeprazole (oh mep' ra zole), like other PPIs, inhibits gastric acid production by binding to and inactivating the H+/K+-ATPase of gastric parietal cells, causing inhibition of the proton pump that transports H+ into the gastric lumen, the common final step in gastric acid production. PubMed Citation (Controlled trial of omeprazole vs cimetidine for 4 weeks in 132 patients with duodenal ulcer disease found no major side effects; one patient on omeprazole had rise of Alk P to 756 U/L, resolving with stopping therapy and 4 had minor AST elevations at the end of therapy [36-54 U/L]).
With appropriate treatment from both a medication and the patient, stomach ulcers usually heal within three months. Depending on the severity of the sore (size and depth), it can take several months to completely heal a stomach ulcer if treatment is successful. Successful treatment includes the prevention of stomach ulcers becoming worse, too. The amount of time it takes a person to heal from stress induced stomach ulcers really depends on that person eliminating stress from their routine as quickly as possible and following the healing environment tips below.
When people take them for a long time, it takes at least 1-2 months for acid levels to return to normal. Since you were only on them for 4 weeks, it shouldn't take that long. Still, I'd allow up to 4 weeks. When I'd collected a prescription for PPI's the doctor told me that if I needed long term medication Ranitidine was now the drug of choice for chronic sufferers due to side effects of PPI's, so I couldn't reconcile that statement with the warning on the OTC packet. Thanks again.
WJF, I am having similer issues like you for 2 months-heatburn, burning sensation in abdomen, dysespia. My doctor has prescribed me mild dose of antidepressant (25mg of Sertraline) for 30 days. I have been taking them for 7 days. Slightly feeling better. But I want to know how long did it take you to recover from this. WJF said... Just want to share my experience on how to recover from GERD caused by stress. I hope you find this post useful. There are many possible causes for GERD. Stress is one of them. If you are under stress, your brain secretes a chemical that can disrupt your digestive process. Unfortunately the standard treatment for GERD is to push for acid-suppressant medicine such as PPI for as long as 4 to 8 weeks. This treats the symptoms and does not solve the underlying problem. I first got my GERD because of intense stress from my work
As to how long it lasts, it varies from person to person, but it can be 2 months or even up to 6 months. It will take longer for the body to right itself, the longer you were taking the medication, so you should be ok in a few weeks if you only took it for a couple of weeks. When I'd collected a prescription for PPI's the doctor told me that if I needed long term medication Ranitidine was now the drug of choice for chronic sufferers due to side effects of PPI's, so I couldn't reconcile that statement with the warning on the OTC packet. Thanks again.
How long you stay in the hospital depends on which type of splenectomy you have. If you have an open splenectomy, you may be sent home within one week. Those who have a laparoscopic splenectomy are usually sent home sooner. It will take about four to six weeks to recover from the procedure. Your surgeon may tell you not to take a bath for a while after surgery so the wounds can heal. Showers may be OK.
It seems simple to ask patients to just stop their PPIs, but it’s not that easy. It can be hard to stop using a PPI due to rebound hyperacidity, a phenomenon where after using a PPI for as little as 2 months upon stopping the stomach produces more stomach acid than prior to using the drugs. 