If you have a tooth abscess, antibiotics are pretty much an essential part of treatment. Antibiotics for tooth infection are very effective, and the most common antibiotic for tooth infection is probably amoxicillin, a type of penicillin. The discovery of penicillin by Alexander Fleming created a revolution. Clindamycin is also an alternative antibiotic if you are allergic to penicillin. Tooth abscess antibiotics are also used in other areas of general medicine. They just happen to be particularly effective against the bacteria that commonly cause dental infections.
How It Works. Antibiotics kill bacteria and are used to fight many types of infections. Antibiotics for an abscessed tooth are given in pill or liquid (oral) form, usually for a 7- to 10-day period. Antibiotic treatment of an abscessed tooth, when used along with either a root canal treatment or extraction, is effective at stopping a bacterial infection in the jaw.
That is why I am here. I feel very silly to ask this, but I am not sure how often to take... show more I am just wanting a second (or more) opinion on Amoxicillin dosing for an Abscessed tooth. My doctor prescribed my dosage as taking 500mg pills 4x a day for a total of 2000mg daily. 
The earlier amoxicillin antibiotic is taken for tooth infection, the better would be the outcome. The safest amoxicillin dose for the treatment of a tooth infection or tooth abscess is 250 mg about 3 times a day, i.e., after every 8 hours for 10 days. In severe cases, the dose for adults may be increased to 500 mg three times per day for a week. Amoxicillin for Tooth Infection. Amoxicillin is an antibiotic that might be prescribed for the treatment of a tooth infection or abscess where the causal organism is a bacterium. This Buzzle write-up provides information on the uses, side effects, and the correct dose of amoxicillin for tooth infection.
In people at risk for a joint infection, the dose is taken 60 minutes before the dental treatment. The typical adult dose for dental infections is 250 milligrams to 500 milligrams every 8 hours. It may be prescribed for 7 to 10 days. Children are given a liquid form of amoxicillin. Their dose is based on body weight. 
Best Answer: If you want to be out of pain for christmas then you need to see your dentist and get the tooth either extracted or have root canal therapy (if this dentist doesn't have time for it find somebody who does). For an adult the usual dose for amoxicillin is 500mg every 6 hours. It does normally take a couple days to feel better if indeed there was an abscess. Notice I said feel better...not feel nothing.
Co-Amoxiclav. Another antibiotic that is also recommended for tooth infection is co-amoxiclav (amoxicillin with clavulinic acid) 2. Co-Amoxiclav dosage: can be used in doses ranging from 375 mg to 625 mg every 8 hours. Amoxicillin. Amoxicillin is a suitable antibiotic for treating both tooth and gum abscesses 1. Amoxicillin dosage: 500 mg three times a day for 5 days. You must see a dentist if you have a dental abscess. Amoxicillin alone, without surgical drainage, may not be effective because of poor penetration into the abscess cavity