Most bacteria that are associated with plants are actually saprotrophic, and do no harm to the plant itself. However, a small number, around 100 known species, are able to cause disease. Bacterial diseases are much more prevalent in sub-tropical and tropical regions of the world. Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues
What causes plant disease? Most people would answer this question by saying that plant pathogens, such as fungi or bacteria, cause plant disease. But this is only part of the answer. Plant pathologists talk about a combination of three crucial factors that must be present to have plant disease. For example, to have Septoria leaf spot on tomato plants, we need a tomato plant that is able to get this disease. Secondly, a pathogen must be present--some organism that causes disease, such as the Septoria fungus that attacks tomato leaves.
The study of plant diseases is known as plant pathology. Infectious diseases are caused by living organisms called pathogens. Noninfectious diseases caused by environmental stress and damage by weather and other environmental factors also will be covered. Indirectly, environmental factors that cause a plant to be stressed may result in the plant's gradual decline. Decline results in the plant being more susceptible to disease organisms. Because of this, diagnosing plant diseases can be tricky.
Fungi Fungi are the most prevalent plant pathogen of indoor ornamental plants. They cause a number of leaf spot, stem, and root rot diseases. Most foliage diseases caused by fungi develop circular, dead spots or lesions on leaves, stems and flowers. The gray-to-brown center is dry and papery, with a darker edge. Plants are subject to two types of disorders: 1  Abiotic or non-infectious disorders; caused by environmental, cultural, and non-living things. 2  Biotic, infectious or pathogenic diseases; caused by living pathogenic microorganisms such as fungi, bacteria, viruses, or nematodes.
Diseases can be classified into two groups. The first are those caused by infectious microorganisms that include fungi, bacteria, viruses and nematodes. These diseases are contagious and can spread from plant to plant in a field, often very rapidly when environmental conditions are favorable. Fungi are the most common cause of infectious plant diseases and can be very destructive. Diseases of tomatoes caused by bacteria, viruses, and nematodes are described in Extension Fact Sheet EPP-7626. Non-infectious diseases of tomato are covered in Extension Fact Sheet EPP-7627.
A plant disease is usually defined as abnormal growth and/or dysfunction of a plant. Diseases are the result of some disturbance in the normal life process of the plant. Diseases may be the result of living and/or non-living causes. Biotic diseases are caused by living organisms such as fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Even though a plant has symptoms on a specific part, it does not necessarily mean the damaged tissue contains the organism causing the symptoms. For example, a root rot can cause chlorosis and wilting of stems and leaves, BUT the disease causal organism is in the roots.
Abiotic agents of disease are non-living factors such as soil compaction, spring frosts, hail, and lawnmower damage to tree trunks. Abiotic agents are noninfectious and non-transmissible. Plant diseases deriving from these agents have been referred to as physiological diseases or environmental diseases. Even though a plant has symptoms on a specific part, it does not necessarily mean the damaged tissue contains the organism causing the symptoms. For example, a root rot can cause chlorosis and wilting of stems and leaves, BUT the disease causal organism is in the roots.
In order to have plant disease, we first need a susceptible host plant. For example, to have Septoria leaf spot on tomato plants, we need a tomato plant that is able to get this disease. Secondly, a pathogen must be present--some organism that causes disease, such as the Septoria fungus that attacks tomato leaves.