Bearded dragons make a great pet reptile. They don’t get too large, eat a wide variety of foods, are active during the day, and are gentle. These friendly animals are captive bred, have limited care requirements, are readily available, and inexpensive. A bearded dragon can be a great addition to your family. 
The Age of the Bearded Dragon. Your bearded dragon's age will play a big part in the price. If a dragon is very young then he or she will be cheaper to buy. Most pet stores will sell you young bearded dragons between the prices of $30-$60 and the larger (more mature) bearded dragons can cost up to $100. Food & Nutrition. Your bearded dragon will need live food (crickets, worms, etc.)Learn what live food (bugs) are safe for a bearded dragon to eat. and plants to eatLearn what plants are safe for a bearded dragon to eat. .
Creating a Bearded Dragon Habitat. To create a proper habitat for your dragon, you will need several things. First, and most obvious, you will need a cage of some kind. You'll need a substrate, which is the material that goes in the bottom of the cage. You'll also need some furniture items, which we will talk about later
Young bearded dragons can eat anywhere from 20-60 pinhead crickets a day. 1  Provide hatchlings with a diet of small insects. 2  Feed juvenile dragons (two to four months old) a mix of 80 percent small insects and 20 percent greens (see below for recommendations). 3  Young dragons need to be fed two to three times per day. 3. Make sure the habitat is an adequate size. Beardies can grow up to 2 feet (61 cm), move fast, and like to climb, so they need plenty of space in their home. For young dragons, a 10 gallon (39 L) tank is adequate, but this will last them only for a few months, as they grow quickly.
When your beardie stops eating, stop offering. Young bearded dragons can eat anywhere from 20-60 pinhead crickets a day. 1  Provide hatchlings with a diet of small insects. 2  If you are caring for a very young bearded dragon, you'll need to give it very small prey, such as pinhead crickets and tiny, freshly molted worms. 3. Make sure the habitat is an adequate size. Beardies can grow up to 2 feet (61 cm), move fast, and like to climb, so they need plenty of space in their home. For young dragons, a 10 gallon (39 L) tank is adequate, but this will last them only for a few months, as they grow quickly.
You should decorate your bearded dragon's tankDiscover the basic accessories you need for a bearded dragon tank. and give him/her a few branches and rocks to feel more like home. You can find rocks and branches outside to use, but you will need to disinfect them, or you can purchase them at your local pet store. Food & Nutrition. Your bearded dragon will need live food (crickets, worms, etc.)Learn what live food (bugs) are safe for a bearded dragon to eat. and plants to eatLearn what plants are safe for a bearded dragon to eat. .
You'll need a source of heat that maintains temperatures within the enclosure at a level comfortable for the bearded dragon. Dragons like temperatures between 78 and 88 F (25 to 31 C) during the day, and evening temperatures between 70 and 79 F (21 and 26 C). 3. Make sure the habitat is an adequate size. Beardies can grow up to 2 feet (61 cm), move fast, and like to climb, so they need plenty of space in their home. For young dragons, a 10 gallon (39 L) tank is adequate, but this will last them only for a few months, as they grow quickly.
Bearded dragons are way too cool of a pet to have a boring name. This is why we came up with over 100 cool names for bearded dragons including dragon names from movies, books, and TV shows. Bearded Dragon Health. Bearded dragons are pretty hardy animals, but they can still get sick. Learn what to look for so you can recognize illnesses in bearded dragons as well as what you need to do to keep a bearded dragon healthy.
You want a bearded dragon and want to make sure it receives proper care. To do this you must have everything needed before you bring your new pet home. Below is a list of all the items to keep your new dragon happy and healthy. 