But the inch is really not a unit of pressure, or force per area. It is a unit of length. So a metric unit has been defined to describe normal atmospheric pressure, called a bar, and the instrument becomes a barometer.. Actually, normal average sea-level pressure is 1.01325 bars, or 1,013.25 millibars (mb). The millibar is a commonly used unit of pressure.
The definition of STP-Standard Temperature and Pressure and NTP-Normal Temperature and Pressure. Since temperature and air pressure vary from place to place it is necessary with a standard reference condition to compare testing and documentation of chemical and physical processes. Note! There is a variety of alternative definitions for the standard reference conditions of temperature and pressure.
Barometric pressure (also known as atmospheric pressure) is the force exerted by the atmosphere at a given point. It is known as the weight of the air. A barometer measures barometric pressure. Measurement of barometric pressure can be expressed in millibars(mb) or in inches or millimeters of mercury (Hg). Normal pressure at sea level is 1013.3 millibars or 29.92 inches of mercury. Fluctuations in barometric pressure are usually a sign of weather conditions. 
The weight of the atmosphere on the surface of the mercury exerts a pressure transmitted through the fluid, forcing it to rise. The greater the weight, the higher the rise. The barometric pressure seldom goes above 31 inches or drops below 29 inches. Normal sea-level pressure is 29.92 inches. It is a unit of length. So a metric unit has been defined to describe normal atmospheric pressure, called a bar, and the instrument becomes a barometer.. Actually, normal average sea-level pressure is 1.01325 bars, or 1,013.25 millibars (mb). The millibar is a commonly used unit of pressure.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Normal atmospheric pressure is 760 mm Hg. The atmospheric pressure mentioned on the news is usually the pressure at sea level. Since the pressure is influenced by altitude, air density (presence of rain would increase density), humidity and temperature, the air pressure where you are would be different. 
The mean sea level pressure (MSLP) is the atmospheric pressure at sea level or (when measured at a given elevation on land) the station pressure adjusted to sea level assuming that the temperature falls at a lapse rate of 6.5 K per km in the fictive layer of air between the station and sea level. Average sea-level pressure is 101.325 kPa (1013.25 hPa or mbar) or 29.92 inches (inHg) or 760 millimetres of mercury (mmHg).
Atmospheric pressure is the pressure exerted by the weight of air in the atmosphere of Earth (or that of another planet). In most circumstances atmospheric pressure is closely approximated by the hydrostatic pressure caused by the weight of air above the measurement point. Average sea-level pressure is 101.325 kPa (1013.25 hPa or mbar) or 29.92 inches (inHg) or 760 millimetres of mercury (mmHg).
The normal high barometric pressure at the Dead Sea, as measured by a standard mercury manometer and blood gas analyzer, was found to be 799 mmHg (1065 hPa). One atmosphere (101 kPa or 14.7 psi) is the pressure caused by the weight of a column of fresh water of approximately 10.3 m (33.8 ft). Average sea-level pressure is 101.325 kPa (1013.25 hPa or mbar) or 29.92 inches (inHg) or 760 millimetres of mercury (mmHg).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Barometric readings show what the barometric pressure or air pressure is. Air pressure is the force exerted on you by the weight of tiny particles of air. Barometers are used to measure the current air pressure at a particular location in inches of mercury or in millibars (mb). A measurement of 29.92 inches of mercury is equivalent to 1013.25 millibars. Air pressure can tell us about what kind of weather to expect as well. 
Air pressure changes with the weather. In fact, it's one of the most important factors that determines what the weather is like. (Related: How high and low pressure affect the weather). You can do some basic weather forecasting by using the wind and barometric pressure. (Related: Using pressure, wind for forecasts). 