Re: Pearson IT Certification Software Failure PCPT.exe. Tim--I checked with the developer, and his response is below. Please let me know if this helps resolve your issues: This is a .NET Framework error; it basically means that their .NET Framework installation on their machine may be incomplete or corrupt. 1 If that doesn’t work, the following two suggestions from the Stack Overflow thread seemed to solve it for people:  2 I had this problem and uninstalling/reinstalling dot net didn't help. 3  Randomly I found a suggestion to go to c:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\.
The Personal Computing Proficiency Test (PCPT) is given in four modules corresponding to the four areas of microcomputer skills defined by the College of Business Administration. Specifically, these skills include the ability to use word processing, presentation, spreadsheets, and database software. One means of meeting this requirement is through passing the Personal Computer Proficiency Test (PCPT) adminstered at the University's Test Center. The alternative is to enroll into CIS 101 Introduction to Personal Computing (4 units credit, pass/fail only).
1 For both the questions that come with the Premium Edition, plus the questions you already got by buying the printed book, the PCPT software will link to the PDF book page. 2  If want to read more about the topics in a question, just click from the exam engine, and see the supporting content. (They’re the publisher that works with Cisco to create Cisco Press). And they asked if I’d want to work on a new edition of the ICND1 and ICND2 books, even though we knew that Cisco wasn’t going to rev the exams in that timeframe.
A. You may register for the PCPT when the Test Center is open. To register, come to the Test Center and BRING YOUR CAL POLY PHOTO ID CARD. You will fill out a registration card and take it with your fee payment to the Cashier's Office. You will then return to the Test Center with the registration card. One means of meeting this requirement is through passing the Personal Computer Proficiency Test (PCPT) adminstered at the University's Test Center. The alternative is to enroll into CIS 101 Introduction to Personal Computing (4 units credit, pass/fail only).
The big change in this case is that the publisher is using exam software called Pearson IT Certification Practice Test (PCPT), which is exam software developed by Pearson. I’ve seen the PCPT software, and it appears to do a nice job as well. (They’re the publisher that works with Cisco to create Cisco Press). And they asked if I’d want to work on a new edition of the ICND1 and ICND2 books, even though we knew that Cisco wasn’t going to rev the exams in that timeframe.
1 Go to C:\Windows and right click on the Microsoft.NET folder and click Properties. 2  Click the Security Tab, then click the Advanced button. 3  Click the Owner Tab, then click the Edit... button. 1 If that doesn’t work, the following two suggestions from the Stack Overflow thread seemed to solve it for people:  2 I had this problem and uninstalling/reinstalling dot net didn't help. 3  Randomly I found a suggestion to go to c:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\.
The Premium Edition eBook and Practice Test is a digital-only certification preparation product combining an eBook with enhanced Pearson IT Certification Practice Tests. Click on the Premium Edition tab (on the left side of this page) to learn more about this product. Your purchase will deliver: The exciting new CCENT/CCNA ICND1 100-101 Official Cert Guide, Premium Edition eBook and Practice Test is a digital-only certification preparation product combining an eBook with enhanced Pearson IT Certification Practice Test. The Premium Edition eBook and Practice Test contains the following items:
A. The PCPT is given in four modules: Word processing, Power Point presentation, Excel spreadsheet, and Access database. Each module test is computer based. Currently a Web-based testing software Cengage SAM 2013 is used. One means of meeting this requirement is through passing the Personal Computer Proficiency Test (PCPT) adminstered at the University's Test Center. The alternative is to enroll into CIS 101 Introduction to Personal Computing (4 units credit, pass/fail only).
Next, like most exam software, PCPT lets you just answer practice (called study mode), or simulate a timed exam event (called “practice exam”). This post ignores study mode, focusing on the score you get when taking a practice exam. That is, if you get 80% of the questions right, you get an 800 on the PCPT exam. Simple enough. PCPT does not weight questions. That is, every question counts the same.