The length of your education depends on your career goals. To get started in a career as an ultrasound tech, you need a minimum of two years at an accredited allied health educational institution. There are schools available both online and offline that are able to provide you with this associate’s degree in sonography. If you’re looking at how long it takes to become a working, professional ultrasound technician, you have to include job search time in the equation.The graph below indicates how long most people search for a job before either finding one or dropping out of the workforce entirely.
Students may apply to one of two types of ultrasound programs. One is an allied health program. Application to the ultrasound portion of that program can be done a year after general education. Students may apply directly to an accredited ultrasound program that combines general education with ultrasound training. Graduates of accredited programs may sit for the ARDMS registry exam upon graduation. Non-accredited allied health students must work for one year before applying for the exam (see Resources).
1 You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 2  Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 3  Not only do they not prepare you adequately for a career as an ultrasound technician, but it will hardly matter as you will not be competitive in the job market. 1 Two-year programs are the most popular, and when you complete the two years (one to one and a half years if you have taken many of the prerequisite courses), you will earn an associate's degree. 2  You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 3
Best Answer: When thinking about entering an ultrasound program, you need not be concerned so much about certificate vs. degree. What is important is that you go to an ACCREDITED program, whether it is college or hospital based. An accredited program allows you to take your registry (licensing) exams upon graduation. 
Most sonographers take a two or four year college program to become accredited or they learn in-house on the job. If you have a degree in nursing, for example, you might be offered the chance to learn ultrasound technology as well. This is a wonderful way to increase your pay and your resume. 
Ultrasound technologists should complete an accredited training program. Depending on the program, it can take anywhere from one to four years to complete. Accredited ultrasound programs can be found at community colleges (a two-year associate’s degree) or four-year institutions (a bachelor’s degree). Accredited certificate programs are also available for people who have previous healthcare degrees and usually take 12 to 15 months
Income and Outlook. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported an average income of $65,800 per year for sonographers, as of May 2011. The lowest-earning 25 percent reported incomes of up to $58,830 per year, while the highest-earning 25 percent earned $76,060 a year or more. A 2010 salary survey by the American Society of Radiologic Technologists returned similar numbers, showing an average salary of $68,821 per year. The BLS projects a 44 percent increase in demand for sonographers between 2010 and 2020, much higher than the average for all occupations.
Most sonographers enter the field through an accredited two-year educational program at a college, community college or training hospital. These provide a grounding in the basic sciences, as well as course work focusing on human anatomy and physiology, and the interpretation of ultrasound images. A 2010 salary survey by the American Society of Radiologic Technologists returned similar numbers, showing an average salary of $68,821 per year. The BLS projects a 44 percent increase in demand for sonographers between 2010 and 2020, much higher than the average for all occupations.
What is important is that you go to an ACCREDITED program, whether it is college or hospital based. An accredited program allows you to take your registry (licensing) exams upon graduation. Once you get licensed, you will never be asked about your schooling again. An employer does not care what route you take to get licensed, they just want you to have that license.
Ultra sound tech education. It takes two years to become an ultrasound technician. You will need an associate’s degree and then will need a certification or license depending on your state. You do not have to study sonography to get this job, though. Many sonographers graduate with nursing degrees or start as radiologic technologists. We will also look at a sample job description, salary, and education. An ultrasound tech is another name for a diagnostic medical sonographer. The position is part patient care and part technical, using medical imaging equipment. The sonographer uses a wand that directs high frequency sound waves into patient’s body.