Kuwait /kuːˈweɪt/ (Arabic: دولة الكويت ‎ Dawlat al-Kuwait), officially the State of Kuwait, is a country in Western Asia. Situated in the northern edge of Eastern Arabia at the tip of the Persian Gulf, it shares borders with Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Kuwait is a constitutional emirate with a high income economy backed by the world's sixth largest oil reserves. The Kuwaiti dinar is the highest valued currency in the world. The country ranks highly in regional comparisons of protection of civil liberties, press freedom and constitutionalism.
The National Assembly is the legislature (main legislative power) in Kuwait. The National Assembly's most significant accountability mechanism is the ability to remove ministers from their post. The National Assembly can have up to 50 MPs. Fifty deputies are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms. The National Assembly effectively removed Saad al-Sabah from his post in 2006 because of Saad's inability to rule due to illness. Kuwait's National Assembly is the most independent parliament in the Arab world, it is among the strongest parliaments in the Middle East.
Overview. Kuwait is a Constitutional and Emirate whose current leader is Chief Executive Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad Al-Sabah. The chief executive in Kuwait typically has a term length of 4 years
Citizens are moving toward democracy because of greater participation in politics of the country. Types of governments in the Middle East: The country Saudi Arabia and Oman have a Monarchy type of government. A monarchy government is a supreme power or sovereignty held by one person. The King of Saudi Arabia is Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud. 
More information about Kuwait is available on the Kuwait Page and from other Department of State publications and other sources listed at the end of this fact sheet. U.S.-KUWAIT RELATIONS. The United States established diplomatic relations with Kuwait in 1961 following its full independence from the United Kingdom. From 2003, Kuwait provided the main platform for U.S. and coalition operations in Iraq. Kuwait played a key role in facilitating the withdrawal of U.S. combat troops and associated equipment from Iraq, which concluded in 2011.
Key Facts. Kuwait is a Constitutional and Emirate whose current leader is Chief Executive Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad Al-Sabah. The chief executive in Kuwait typically has a term length of 4 year
Kuwait is a constitutional monarchy. It is governed by its 1962 constitution, which established a National Assembly that shares power with an emir. The emir suspended the constitution and parliament from 1976 to 1980 and again from 1986 to 1992, both times for loosely specified reasons. 
Kuwait's judicial system is the most independent in the Gulf region and the Constitutional Court is widely believed to be one of the most judicially independent courts in the Arab world. The National Assembly effectively removed Saad al-Sabah from his post in 2006 because of Saad's inability to rule due to illness. Kuwait's National Assembly is the most independent parliament in the Arab world, it is among the strongest parliaments in the Middle East.