Vitamin C. Tendons and ligaments also need vitamin C, a nutrient found in many vegetables and fruits, because both tissues contain large amounts of collagen. Vitamin C plays an essential role in new collagen production, and a vitamin C deficiency can weaken your tendons and ligaments by preventing collagen synthesis. Lentils contain tendon-and ligament-healthy protein, as well as manganese and copper. Tendons and ligaments make up essential parts of your musculoskeletal system.
Ligaments are the flexible structures that connect bones to bones. Tendons connect muscles to bones. Although they have different functions, ligaments and tendons are both made up primarily of collagen, a strong, flexible, connective tissue. Keep your Joints Healthy. Ligaments and tendons are important for your everyday movements and activities. They can take a lot of wear and tear with just normal activities, but take a tremendous amount of strain when we exercise. This increases the need for certain vitamins and minerals in our bodies
Glucosamine helps build cartilage, which is the body's shock absorber. This nutrient is also known to help build strong joints, ligaments and tendons. Glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate produce a material the body needs for healthy skin, tendons, ligaments and joints. Vitamin C. Not only may vitamin C help reduce or prevent delayed onset muscle soreness due to exercise, it may also speed along recovery. Vitamin C helps our bodies produce collagen, which strengthens the connective tissue that forms our
Collagen is one of the main ingredients in tendons and the supplementation or addition of Vitamin C to an injured body can help repair muscle and tendon tissue. Collagen is a protein that makes up muscle tissues, as well as connective tissues including tendons and ligaments. 
Vitamin B-6. Vitamin B-6 may help control inflammation that can damage tendons and ligaments, according a study published in the September 2010 European Journal of Clinical Nutrition.. Participants supplemented with 100 milligrams per day of vitamin B-6 for 12 weeks. SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Your tendons, which attach muscles to bones, and ligaments, which attach adjacent bones to each other, are made of cords of connective tissue comprised of primarily water and protein strands. These important structures receive very little blood supply relative to muscles and, as a result, heal more slowly from injury
Protein makes up the bulk of your tendons and ligaments. Collagen makes your tissues strong, while the protein elastin in ligaments provides some elasticity. Protein from your diet allows your body to produce new collagen and elastin to help keep your tendons and ligaments strong. Lentils contain tendon-and ligament-healthy protein, as well as manganese and copper. Tendons and ligaments make up essential parts of your musculoskeletal system.
Eating foods rich in essential minerals also helps maintain healthy tendons and ligaments. Tendons contain small amounts of calcium and manganese as well as the trace mineral copper. Calcium also maintains healthy bones, helping to prevent bone disorders that could interfere with tendon and ligament function. Lentils contain tendon-and ligament-healthy protein, as well as manganese and copper. Tendons and ligaments make up essential parts of your musculoskeletal system.
To fully understand how vitamins and supplements can help to protect and repair ligaments and tendons, you must first learn what these tissues need and how each vitamin or supplement contributes to the needs of the tissue. Keep your Joints Healthy. Ligaments and tendons are important for your everyday movements and activities. They can take a lot of wear and tear with just normal activities, but take a tremendous amount of strain when we exercise. This increases the need for certain vitamins and minerals in our bodies