This atomic model is known as the quantum mechanical model of the atom. Unlike the Bohr model, the quantum mechanical model does not define the exact path of an electron, but rather, predicts the odds of the location of the electron. This model can be portrayed as a nucleus surrounded by an electron cloud. In 1926 Erwin Schroedinger, schrödinger An austrian, physicist took The bohr atom model one step. Further schroedinger schrödinger used mathematical equations to describe the likelihood of finding an electron in a. Certain position this atomic model is known as the quantum mechanical model of. the atom
Part of the Nanotechnology glossary: Quantum theory is the theoretical basis of modern physics that explains the nature and behavior of matter and energy on the atomic and subatomic level. The nature and behavior of matter and energy at that level is sometimes referred to as quantum physics and quantum mechanics. Quantum theory and Einstein's theory of relativity form the basis for modern physics. The principles of quantum physics are being applied in an increasing number of areas, including quantum optics, quantum chemistry, quantum computing, and quantum cryptography. See Brian Greene's introduction to quantum theory on Nova:
Quantum physics actually encompasses two entities. The first is the theory of matter at the atomic level: quantum mechanics. It is quantum mechanics that allows us to understand and manipulate the material world. The second is the quantum theory of fields. Quantum field theory plays a totally different role in science, to which we shall return later. 
In 1913, Neils Bohr, a student of. 's, developed a new model of the atom. He proposed that electrons are arranged in concentric circular orbits around the nucleus. This model is patterned on the solar system and is known as the planetary model. In 1926 Erwin Schroedinger, schrödinger An austrian, physicist took The bohr atom model one step. Further schroedinger schrödinger used mathematical equations to describe the likelihood of finding an electron in a. Certain position this atomic model is known as the quantum mechanical model of. the atom
Quantum mechanics (QM; also known as quantum physics or quantum theory) including quantum field theory, is a fundamental branch of physics concerned with processes involving, for example, atoms and photons. The mathematical formulations of quantum mechanics are abstract. A mathematical function, the wave function, provides information about the probability amplitude of position, momentum, and other physical properties of a particle.
Quantum mechanics gradually arose from Max Planck 's solution in 1900 to the black-body radiation problem (reported 1859) and Albert Einstein 's 1905 paper which offered a quantum-based theory to explain the photoelectric effect (reported 1887). Early quantum theory was significantly reformulated in the mid-1920s. The mathematical formulations of quantum mechanics are abstract. A mathematical function, the wave function, provides information about the probability amplitude of position, momentum, and other physical properties of a particle.
View full size image. Niels Bohr was one of the foremost scientists of modern physics, best known for his substantial contributions to quantum theory and his Nobel Prize-winning research on the structure of atoms. Born in Copenhagen in 1885 to well-educated parents, Bohr became interested in physics at a young age. Bohr's greatest contribution to modern physics was the atomic model. The Bohr model shows the atom as a small, positively charged nucleus surrounded by orbiting electrons.
Modern Atomic Theory Bohr's model of the atom is important because it introduced the concept of the quantum in explaining atomic properties. However, Bohr's model ultimately needed revision becuase it failed to explain the natue of atoms more complicated than hydrogen.