A hardware security module (HSM) is a physical computing device that safeguards and manages digital keys for strong authentication and provides cryptoprocessing. These modules traditionally come in the form of a plug-in card or an external device that attaches directly to a computer or network server. Typical HSM devices can perform about 50 to 1,000 1024-bit RSA operations/second. Some performance at longer key sizes is becoming increasingly important. To address this issue, some HSMs now support elliptic curve cryptography. Specialized HSM devices can reach numbers as high as +7,000 operations per second.
What Is AWS CloudHSM? A hardware security module (HSM) is a hardware appliance that provides secure key storage and cryptographic operations within a tamper-resistant hardware module. 
Use cases [edit]. HSM is often used for deep archival storage of data to be held long term at low cost. Automated tape robots can silo large quantities of data efficiently with low power consumption. Conceptually, HSM is analogous to the cache found in most computer CPUs, where small amounts of expensive SRAM memory running at very high speeds is used to store frequently used data, but the least recently used data is evicted to the slower but much larger main DRAM memory when new data has to be loaded.
Appropriate Care. HSM, Inc. is a specialty healthcare management services company providing specialty healthcare networks and cost management solutions to health plans, third-party administrators, health insurance, and workers' compensation carriers. Healthcare Cost Management. HSM, Inc. is a specialty healthcare management services company providing specialty healthcare networks and cost management solutions to health plans, third-party administrators, health insurance, and workers' compensation carriers.
Short for Hierarchical Storage Management, a data storage system that automatically moves data between high-cost and low-cost storage media. In effect, HSM turns the fast disk drives into caches for the slower mass storage devices.
Some HSM systems are also hardware cryptographic accelerators. They usually cannot beat the performance of hardware-only solutions for symmetric key operations. However, with performance ranges from 1 to 7,000 1024-bit RSA signs per second, HSMs can provide significant CPU offload for asymmetric key operations. Typical HSM devices can perform about 50 to 1,000 1024-bit RSA operations/second. Some performance at longer key sizes is becoming increasingly important. To address this issue, some HSMs now support elliptic curve cryptography. Specialized HSM devices can reach numbers as high as +7,000 operations per second.
SecurActive Performance Vision. HSM (Hierarchical Storage Management) is policy-based management of file backup and archiving in a way that uses storage devices economically and without the user needing to be aware of when files are being retrieved from backup storage media. For example, as a file ages in an archive, it can be automatically moved to a slower but less expensive form of storage. Using an HSM product, an administrator can establish and state guidelines for how often different kinds of files are to be copied to a backup storage device.
Instead, HSM systems store the bulk of the enterprise's data on slower devices, and then copy data to faster disk drives when needed. In effect, HSM turns the fast disk drives into caches for the slower mass storage devices.