Marin County Ford is a new Ford Dealership serving residents of San Rafael, Berkeley, Richmond, Petaluma and San Francisco CA. We sell new Ford cars, trucks, SUVs, and vans to customers living in the North San Francisco (SF) Bay area. Don't forget to look at our latest Ford Service Specials ! Call us today at (888) 574-7782 toll free from anywhere in the San Francisco (SF) Bay area to schedule your next Service Appointment with Marin County Ford in Novato, California. The Staff at our Novato CA Ford Service Center will be happy to help you arrange a rental vehicle if required
According to our research of California and other state lists there were 24 registered sex offenders living in Novato, California as of August 28, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Novato to the number of sex offenders is 2,221 to 1. The number of registered sex offenders compared to the number of residents in this city is smaller than the state average. Median real estate property taxes paid for housing units with mortgages in 2013: $5,692 (1.0%). 
Marin County Ford, a Ford dealer in Novato, California offers new Ford Cars, Crossovers, SUVs, Trucks and Commercial Trucks online at: Find your dream car from our Ford showroom of Cars, Crossovers, SUVs, Trucks and Commercial Trucks or search our new Ford inventory to see what is on our lot, get new car pricing and free Ford price quotes.
In the United States House of Representatives, Novato is in California's 2nd congressional district, represented by Democrat Jared Huffman. From 2008 to 2012, Huffman represented Marin County in the California State Assembly. The original town was located around Novato Creek at what is now South Novato Boulevard. A railroad was built in 1879, connecting Novato to Sonoma County and San Rafael. The area around the train depot became known as New Town, and forms the edge of what today is Old Town Novato.
Novato (/nəˈvɑːtoʊ/ nə-VAH-toh) is a city in northern Marin County, in the North Bay region of the San Francisco Bay Area, in the U.S. state of California. As of the 2010 United States Census, its population was 51,904. Novato is located about 10 miles (16 km) northwest of San Rafael and about 30 miles (48 km) north of San Francisco on U.S. 101. The original town was located around Novato Creek at what is now South Novato Boulevard. A railroad was built in 1879, connecting Novato to Sonoma County and San Rafael. The area around the train depot became known as New Town, and forms the edge of what today is Old Town Novato.
Marin County Ford is conveniently located at 6995 Redwood Blvd, Novato, CA 94945. Our dealership location is just a short drive from anywhere in the greater San Francisco (SF) Bay area, including the cities of San Rafael, Berkeley, Richmond, Petaluma, Santa Venetia, Fairfax, and all of Marin County CA. Don't forget to look at our latest Ford Service Specials ! Call us today at (888) 574-7782 toll free from anywhere in the San Francisco (SF) Bay area to schedule your next Service Appointment with Marin County Ford in Novato, California. The Staff at our Novato CA Ford Service Center will be happy to help you arrange a rental vehicle if required
Explore Sonoma County & Napa Valley from our Novato hotel. Treat yourself to the comfort and convenience of Courtyard Novato Marin/Sonoma. As one of the premier hotels in Novato, we offer guests modernly appointed accommodations situated between the wineries of Sonoma County and Napa Valley, as well as attractions such like Muir Woods, Mount Tamalpais and Infineon Raceway. Comfort and convenience collide at Courtyard, one of the premier hotels in Novato featuring free Wi-Fi, on-site dining and an outdoor pool.
Register by October 19 to Vote November 3. Go online at www.registertovote.ca.gov or fill out and mail a voter registration form, which must be post marked on or before October 19. Read the Full Story. 1  Marin Recruits Volunteer Weather Watchers. 2  Child Care Commission Has Opening