Caffeine is a naturally occurring chemical stimulant called trimethylxanthine. Its chemical formula is C8H10N4O2 (see Erowid: Caffeine Chemistry for an image of the molecular structure). It is a drug, and actually shares a number of traits with more notorious drugs such as amphetamines, cocaine and heroin. Remember, though, that caffeine shares some traits of those much harder drugs -- including the ability to cause addiction. Many people feel as though they cannot function in the morning without a cup of coffee (and its caffeine-powered boost) to kick-start the day.
Effects of Caffeine on the Body. Caffeine is a naturally occurring substance found in many plants, including coffee beans and tea leaves. Kola nuts and cacao pods also contain caffeine. Caffeine can also be man-made, and it is added to many of our foods and drinks. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications contain caffeine. There’s also a great variation in the amount of caffeine an individual can tolerate without unpleasant side effects. If you consume roughly the same amount of caffeine every day, you can develop a tolerance to it. Your tolerance level is affected by your age, body mass, and any health conditions you may have.
Caffeine works by stimulating the central nervous system (CNS), heart, muscles, and the centers that control blood pressure. Caffeine can raise blood pressure, but might not have this effect in people who use it all the time. 1 Diabetes. 2  Drinking beverages that contain caffeine is linked with a lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes. 3  It appears that the more caffeine that is consumed, the lower the risk. 4  Although caffeine might help prevent type 2 diabetes, it might not be effective in treat
Caffeine can have both positive and negative health effects. It can be used to treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia of prematurity, and to prevent apnea of prematurity: caffeine citrate was placed on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines in 2007. Toxic doses, over 10 grams per day for an adult, are much higher than typical dose of under 500 milligrams per day. A cup of coffee contains 80–175 mg of caffeine, depending on what bean (seed) is used and how it is prepared (e.g. drip, percolation, or espresso).
Caffeine comes from plant sources, and drinks like tea and coffee contain the substance naturally, but it is still a drug that acts physically on your body. Caffeine is best known as a way to wake up, stay awake and get fast energy. Those effects happen because of how the drug works on your nervous system. Your body processes and expels caffeine rather than allowing it to build up.
A cup of black coffee on a cafe table. Photo Credit WeeraDanwilai/iStock/Getty Images. Caffeine comes from plant sources, and drinks like tea and coffee contain the substance naturally, but it is still a drug that acts physically on your body. Caffeine is best known as a way to wake up, stay awake and get fast energy. Those effects happen because of how the drug works on your nervous system. Your body processes and expels caffeine rather than allowing it to build up.
That means that if you consume a big cup of coffee with 200 mg of caffeine in it at 3:00 PM, by 9:00 PM about 100 mg of that caffeine is still in your system. You may be able to fall asleep, but your body probably will miss out on the benefits of deep sleep. Caffeine, by definition, is a drug that stimulates the central nervous system, causing increased heart rate and alertness. It is addictive and may cause side effects including headache, anxiety, dizziness, jitters, and heart problems. Many studies have evaluated the effects of caffeine on health
Caffeine confers a survival advantage on the plant containing it in three ways. First, if it is ingested by an insect feeding on and potentially damaging or killing the plant, caffeine functions as a natural pesticide which can paralyze and kill the insect. Toxic doses, over 10 grams per day for an adult, are much higher than typical dose of under 500 milligrams per day. A cup of coffee contains 80–175 mg of caffeine, depending on what bean (seed) is used and how it is prepared (e.g. drip, percolation, or espresso).
Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class of psychoactive drugs. It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. Toxic doses, over 10 grams per day for an adult, are much higher than typical dose of under 500 milligrams per day. A cup of coffee contains 80–175 mg of caffeine, depending on what bean (seed) is used and how it is prepared (e.g. drip, percolation, or espresso).