Just copied this from a website: This interesting surname is of Old French origin, and has two possible sources; firstly, it may be an occupational name for the gatekeeper of … a town, or a doorkeeper of a large house, deriving from the Middle English porter, a development of the Old French portier. The surname Berry can be an Anglicized form of the Gaelic 'O Beara'. Or the Old English 'Byrig' meaning fortified manor house or stronghold. Swiss German suggest 'berro' or be … ar. It has some connections in France and possibly from a Latin word 'Boriacum'. It has travelled to America as 'Berrien'.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Ketel de Sudtone, which was dated 1086, in the Domesday Book of Lincolnshire, during the reign of King William 1, known as William the Conqueror, 1066 - 1087. The surname dates back to the Domesday Book of 1086 (see below) while Alnod Suttuna was recorded in 1086 in Cambridgeshire in Ancient Records of Ely. The surname appears a number of times in the 1379 Poll Tax Records of Yorkshire as de Sutton, the de prefix meaning of.
Sutton is one of those names that was acquired through the location of the family in its early history. It is from the Anglo-Saxon words, sudh, meaning south, and tun, meaning town. Therefore the name designated the family of Southtown.. The families of Sutton and Dudley, whose histories are inextricably mingled by intermarriage and relationship, are ancient ones in England, dating before the eleventh century. In 1251, in the reign of Henry III, Rowland de Sutton married a daughter of the noted family of Lexington. Isabella de Sutton, after the death of her husband, Sir John de Sutton, in 1359, married Sir Richard de Dudley. Upon her death the estates of the combined families were inherited by her grandson, John Sutton. Among these estates was the famous Dudley Castle.
Meaning of Sutton. English name. In English, the name Sutton means-the town to the south.The name Sutton originated as an English name. The name Sutton is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-the town to the south. Origin-England. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
English: habitational name from any of the extremely numerous places called Sutton, from Old English suð ‘south’ + tun ‘enclosure’, ‘settlement’. Source: Dictionary of American Family Names ©2013, Oxford University Press. You can find out where the majority of the Sutton families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
The meaning of last names can provide insight into family history and origins. Last names can indicate what your ancestors did for a living, where they came from, and what their customs and cultures were. HOW TO GET STARTED: To find the meaning of your last name, use our Search by Last Name box to the left, OR Browse by Last Name (alphabetical) below.
Sutton /sut-ton/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Sutton is southern settlement. Variations. Sutton is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a very prominent surname for all people (#319 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Sutton for boys
Comments and insights on the name Sutton: | Edit. Sutton is a common surname. It is an uncommon first name. It is a nice name for a boy. However, it is considered to be a unisex name.
Meanings and history of the name Sutton: | Edit. The Old English meaning is from the south farm. Sutton Hoo is a famous Anglo-Saxon burial site that contained priceless treasures from the medieval period. Sutton is a common surname. It is an uncommon first name. It is a nice name for a boy. However, it is considered to be a unisex name.