BNSF Logistics, LLC provides third party logistics and supply chain services in the United States and internationally. It offers parcel, truckload, less than truckload, air cargo, airline, intermodal, rail, ocean, and multi-modal transportation services. 
It's free! BNSF Logistics is a Berkshire Hathaway Company and wholly owned subsidiary of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation (BNSF). BNSF Logistics has been developing and implementing logistics solutions for a wide variety of consumer and industrial products companies for more than 10 years. BNSF Logistics Solutions Consulting provides end-to-end supply chain solutions, engineering optimal freight distribution networks and a team of industrial engineers, supply chain analysts and IT specialists to create supply strategies that can provide a competitive edge.
BNSF Logistics is a Berkshire Hathaway company and wholly owned subsidiary of Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC. Our vision is to establish BNSF Logistics as the leader in providing creative logistics solutions that consistently exceed our customers’ expectations. We handle everything from ultra-complex, multi-modal freight movement around the globe to simple, day-to-day transportation freight solutions across North America. Our expertise spans across an array of modes including truckload, project cargo, ocean, rail, air, LTL, and intermodal. BNSF Logistics provides a blend of professional expertise with logistics technology designed to maximize customer value.
BNSF Logistics. Thank you for your interest in becoming an approved carrier for BNSF Logistics, LLC. Below are some of our key requirements in order for your company to qualify as an approved carrier. All elements identified as 'required' must be finalized in order for the qualification process to be completed. 
The team at BNSF Logistics has been busy with transformers this year! Our most recent transformer, weighing in at 372,000 lbs. came into the Port of Long Beach along with 15 accessories. From there it was moved via rail to Wyoming. BNSF Logistics. September 23 at 12:41pm ·. BNSF Logistics team in Toronto in conjunction with the BNSFL’s Global Project Center in Houston handled the transport of a secondary reformer measuring 77’1” x 21’7” x 23’9” and with a weight of 635,000 lbs. from the Port of Houston to Beaumont, TX.
Our People. BNSF Logistics is an industry-leading transportation intermediary, committed to providing value to each of our customers through professional acumen, entrepreneurial drive, and individual commitment. We are one of the fastest growing 3PLs and pride ourselves on service flexibility and modal breadth. Our expertise spans across an array of modes including truckload, project cargo, ocean, rail, air, LTL, and intermodal. BNSF Logistics provides a blend of professional expertise with logistics technology designed to maximize customer value.
BNSF Logistics is an industry-leading transportation intermediary, committed to providing value to each of our customers through professional acumen, entrepreneurial drive, and individual commitment. We are one of the fastest growing 3PLs in North America and pride ourselves on service flexibility and modal breadth. 