L. J. refused to negotiate any deal with Mahone, and was nearly broken out of the Cook County Courthouse on his way to his hearing by his father and uncle. However, the impromptu prison break was foiled by Mahone. L. J. was then transported to a detention center in Kingman, Arizona.
In 2005, Miller was cast as Michael Scofield in Fox Network's television drama Prison Break. He played the role of a caring brother who created an elaborate scheme to help his brother, Lincoln Burrows (Dominic Purcell) escape death row after being found guilty of a crime he did not commit.
4,896 Fans. - Add to My Shows. Due to a political conspiracy an innocent man is sent to death row and his only hope is his brother who makes it his mission to deliberately get himself sent to the same prison in order to break the both of them out from the inside out.
Wentworth Miller is the latest celebrity to reveal he's gay. After being invited to attend the St. Petersburg International Film Festival in Russia, the Prison Break star decided it was time to go public with his sexual orientation.
Lincoln L. J.. Burrows, Jr. is the son of Lincoln Burrows. Lincoln, wanted for supposed first degree murder, was set-up himself for his father's purposes, just like L.J. However, after teaming up with Lincoln's lawyers he became a target to keep Lincoln quiet.
Miller will reprise his role as Michael Scofield for the Prison Break event series in the summer of 2016.
Listen, this is a new show, and I think it’s going to be a breakout hit, so this isn’t about reliving Prison Break. This is about one character that lives on. And the great thing about this episode is the show goes on living, these characters out to get T-Bag go on living. And T-Bag will
Other major Prison Break castmembers have been featured in the Arrow/The Flash universe. Robert Knepper (T-Bag) played The Clock King on Arrow and is set to reprise his role on The Flash, and Peter Stormare (John Abruzzi) is Count Vertigo on the new season of Arrow.
Learn how to break out of prison in a few simple steps in Escaping The Prison. ►Subscribe for more great content: http://bit.ly/11KwHAM. Share with your friends and add to your favourites it helps the channel grow more than anything :). ►Follow me on Twitter: http://bit.ly/12aPsmi. ►Like me on Facebook: http://on.fb.me/1hhjZiM.