The wart may appear to have a root or seeds, but these are in fact small clusters of the wart just beneath the top layer of the skin. The wart cannot live in any tissue except the skin. Moist, sweaty feet can predispose to infection by the wart virus. They can be picked up in showers and around swimming pools. Freezing the wart with liquid nitrogen is another form of treatment. This form of treatment when the warts are on the bottom of the foot can be very painful and take several days or weeks to heal. Topical acids can also be a useful means of treating warts.
Posted by Gabrielle Marks in Warts. ANSWER: Warts do not have roots. More Info: Warts that have little black dots in the center are often referred to as “seed” warts. Many believe that this darkened center is the root of the wart. It is not a root, but the dried blood of a dead capillary.
Once the virus takes hold, blood vessels root in the wart and begin to feed it the oxygen and nutrients it needs to grow. You can see these dark pinpricks in the wart if you look closely. To get rid of warts before they spread, the first step is to kill the virus. Wart Prevention Tips. Plantar warts, caused by the human papillomavirus, occur on the soles of feet and toes and can be difficult to get rid of. Philip and Karen Smith/Photographers Choice RF/Getty Images. One of the most common myths about warts is that you can catch them from toads.
A plantar wart also known as veruca, myrmecia and veruca plantaris is a wart caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) occurring on the sole (Latin planta) or toes of the foot. HPV infections in other locations are not plantar; see human papillomavirus. 
Plantar warts are growths on the skin of the palms and soles of the feet. Plantar warts occur in about 30% of cases of benign tumors of the skin and are the most often case of removing. The other name of a plantar wart is Verruca plantaris (Latin). Let’s analyze in detail the causes of plantar warts, their appearance, as well as methods of plantar wart treatment and plantar wart removal, and ways of preventing their further occurrence.
The best thing for you to do is to use a wart remover method that penetrates to the root of the warts and eliminating them. One removal method that does this is the duct tape method. When you use duct tape it will suffocate the root cause of the warts so the HPV virus doesn’t have a chance to survive. Once the root cause of the warts is removed you won’t have to worry about seeing warts on your skin again. Inexpensive. It shouldn’t cost you an arm and leg to remove your warts
Attacking The Root. You want to use a wart removal treatment that attacks the root cause of the warts so they don’t have a chance to grow back. The root cause of warts is the HPV virus and you need a treatment that penetrates deep and kills the virus once and for all. When you use duct tape it will suffocate the root cause of the warts so the HPV virus doesn’t have a chance to survive. Once the root cause of the warts is removed you won’t have to worry about seeing warts on your skin again.
Warts are usually painless. But a wart that grows in a spot where you put pressure, such as on a finger or on the bottom of the foot, can be painful. A doctor usually can tell if a skin growth is a wart just by looking at it. Your doctor may take a sample of the wart and look at it under a microscope (a skin biopsy).
A wart on the bottom of the foot is a plantar wart because of its location. Callus formation over the wart can make it painful to walk. You can tell a plantar wart from a callus or corn because the wart will obliterate the skin lines and a callus will not. Thus, the virus that grows a wart on the finger will not grow a wart on the bottom of the foot. Wart viruses are common and found everywhere. When they come in contact with injured skin, they can enter exposed living skin cells and take control.