Deco. Anderson Luis luís De, SOUZA, oih commonly known As, deco is A-brazilian Born portuguese professional footballer who currently plays For. Fluminense deco is one of the few players to have won THE Uefa Champions league with two different – CLUBS Fc porto in 2004 AND Fc barcelona in. 2006 Anderson Luis luís De, SOUZA, oih commonly known As, deco is A-brazilian Born portuguese professional footballer who currently plays For. fluminense
1. deco-a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s; marked by stylized forms and geometric designs adapted to mass production. art deco. art movement, artistic movement-a group of artists who agree on general principles. (often caps. ) a style of decorative art developed orig. in the 1920s and marked chiefly by geometric motifs, curvilinear forms, and sharply defined outlines.
Write a guide. In the 1920s and 1930s, the art-deco style was wildly popular and influenced the design of almost everything, from architecture to furniture to clothing. Art-deco style is generally described as having precise, boldly delineated geometric shapes and strong colors. 
Art Deco (/ˌɑrt ˈdɛkoʊ/), or Deco, is an influential visual arts design style that first appeared in France just before World War I and began flourishing internationally in the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s before its popularity waned after World War II. The Art Deco era is often anecdotally dated from 1925 when the Exposition Internationale des Arts Decoratifs décoratifs Et Industriels modernes was organized to showcase new ideas in applied, arts although the style had been in full force In france for several years before that. date
Noun. 1. art deco-a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s; marked by stylized forms and geometric designs adapted to mass production. deco. art movement, artistic movement-a group of artists who agree on general principles. n. 1. (Art Movements). a. a style of interior decoration, jewellery, architecture, etc, at its height in the 1930s and characterized by geometrical shapes, stylized natural forms, and symmetrical utilitarian designs adapted to mass production. b. (as modifier): an Art-Deco carpet.
• ART DECO (noun). The noun ART DECO has 1 sense: 1. a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s; marked by stylized forms and geometric designs adapted to mass production. Familiarity information: ART DECO used as a noun is very rare. 
[ 2 syll. de-co, dec-o ] The baby boy name Deco is pronounced as D EH Kow †. Deco is used mostly in the Hungarian language and it is of Latin origin. Deco is a derivative of the English name Dominic. Deco is a rarely used baby name for boys. It is ranked outside of the top 1000 names. In 2012, within the group of boy names directly linked to Deco, Dominic was the most popular. Baby names that sound like Deco include Dacee, Dacey (English), Daci, Dacie, Dacso (Hungarian), Dacy (English), Dadah, Dadas, Daecee, Daecey, Daeci, Daecie, Dago, Daice, Daiwik (Indian), Daksa (Indian), Daksha (Indian), Dakshi (Indian), Daksi (Indian), and Dasa.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Kaltaugh. Confidence votes 84. Deco is a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s, marked by stylized forms and geometric designs. Art Deco is short for the Exposition Internationale des Arts Decoratifs Industriels et Modernes which was an event that was held in Paris in 1925 to showcase the modern world … and its industrial beauty.
Report Abuse. Art-Deco also called Style Moderne, movement in the decorative arts and architecture that originated in the 1920s and developed into a major style in western Europe and the United States during the 1930s. 
The noun DECO has 1 sense: 1. a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s; marked by stylized forms and geometric designs adapted to mass production. Familiarity information: DECO used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.