Types of cancer in the colon and rectum. Several types of cancer can start in the colon or rectum. Adenocarcinomas: More than 95% of colorectal cancers are a type of cancer known as adenocarcinomas. These cancers start in cells that form glands that make mucus to lubricate the inside of the colon and rectum. A polyp is a benign, non-cancerous tumor. Some polyps can change into cancer but not all do. The chance of changing into a cancer depends on the kind of polyp. The 2 main types of polyps are: 1  Adenomatous polyps (adenomas) are polyps that can change into cancer.
Adenomatous polyps, or adenomas, are polyps that grow on the lining of the colon and which carry a high risk of cancer. The adenomatous polyp is considered pre-malignant, i.e., likely to develop into colon cancer. The other types of polyps that can occur in the colon are the hyperplastic and inflammatory polyps. They are unlikely to develop into colorectal cancer.
Polyps are often non-cancerous growths but some can develop into cancer. The two most common types of polyps found in the colon and rectum include: 1  Hyperplastic and inflammatory polyps. 2  Usually these polyps do not carry a risk of developing into cancer. 3  However, large hyperplastic polyps, especially on the right side of the colon, are of concern and should be completely removed
A polyp is a projection (growth) of tissue from the inner lining of the colon into the lumen (hollow center) of the colon. Different types of polyps look different under the microscope. Polyps are benign (non-cancerous) growths, but cancer can start in some types of polyps. 
A colon polyp is a small clump of cells that forms on the lining of the colon. Most colon polyps are harmless. But over time, some colon polyps can develop into colon cancer, which is often fatal when found in its later stages. Anyone can develop colon polyps. 
Not all colon polyps are the same. There are different histologic types, that is, the cells that make up the polyp have different characteristics when viewed under the microscope. They also vary in size, number, and location. Most importantly, they vary in their tendency to become cancerous (malignant). 
Polyps can be cancerous (malignant) or not cancerous (benign). Here are the types of colon polyps. Pedunculated Polyp This type of polyp is when it is attached to the mucous membrane and has a narrow stalk of tissue. This is one of the most common types of colon polyps. Sessile Polyp When there is no stalk of tissue present and the polyp grows right on the mucous membrane, it is called sessile.
A colorectal polyp is a polyp (fleshy growth) occurring on the lining of the colon or rectum. Untreated colorectal polyps can develop into colorectal cancer. Colorectal polyps are often classified by their behaviour (i.e. benign vs. malignant) and/or etiology (e.g. as a consequence of inflammatory bowel disease). 
Polyps are abnormal growths of tissue that can be found in any organ that has blood vessels. They are most often found in the colon, nose, or uterus. Most polyps are noncancerous (benign). However, because polyps are due to abnormal cell growth, they can eventually become cancerous (malignant). Whether or not a polyp is cancerous can be determined with a biopsy. 
1 Changes in the genetic material of cells lining the colon are the cause of polyps. 2  There are different types of colon polyps with differing tendencies to become malignant and abilities to predict the development of more polyps and cancer. 