Early Life and Training. Italian Renaissance painter and architect Raphael was born Raffaello Sanzio on April 6, 1483, in Urbino, Italy. At the time, Urbino was a cultural center that encouraged the Arts. Raphael’s father, Giovanni Santi, was a painter for the Duke of Urbino, Federigo da Montefeltro. Raphael was born on April 6, 1483, in Urbino, Italy. He became Perugino's apprentice in 1504. Living in Florence from 1504 to 1507, he began painting a series of Madonnas.. In Rome from 1509 to 1511, he painted the Stanza della Segnatura (Room of the Signatura) frescoes located in the Palace of the Vatican
Urbino's historic center is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Urbino Location: Urbino is in the northern part of central Italy's Marche Region, one of the more remote and least touristed regions of Italy. Urbino is about 30km from the Adriatic coast. (see Marche region map).
Titian’s Venus. The Venus of Urbino is one of Titian’s best known paintings, and probably his most provocative. Portraying a young female model, who according to some scholars appeared in other artist’s pieces, the work feeds the ambiguity regarding the protagonist’s social status by blurring generic boundaries. The Venus of Urbino is one of Titian’s best known paintings, and probably his most provocative
The town, nestled on a high sloping hillside, retains much of its picturesque medieval aspect, an illusion only slightly broken by the large car parks below the town. It hosts the University of Urbino, founded in 1506, and is the seat of the Archbishop of Urbino. Its best-known architectural piece is the Palazzo Ducale, rebuilt by Luciano Laurana. 
Titian derived the subject matter from literary descriptions of classical works of art. Venus, the mythological goddess of love, is the protagonist of a number of works by Titian, the best known probably being the so-called Venus of Urbino (Florence, Galleria degli Uffizi). Painted for Francesco Maria I della Rovere's private chambers, this reclining nude is at once idealized and erotic. 
Raphael was born in the small but artistically significant Central Italian city of Urbino in the Marche region, where his father Giovanni Santi was court painter to the Duke. 
Art Home | ARTH Courses | ARTH 200 Assignments | ARTH 213 Assignments. Titian's Venus of Urbino. In March of 1538, Guidobaldo della Rovere, who would become the Duke of Urbino, wrote to his agent in Venice about a painting by Titian he wanted to acquire. He refers to the painting as la donna nuda (the nude woman). This work has been identified as the Venus of Urbino.
Urbino Overview: Urbino is a picturesque Renaissance hill town and the capital of the Marche region of central Italy. Although Urbino was a Roman and medieval city, its peak came during the 15th century when Duke Federico da Montefeltro established one of Europe's most illustrious courts. Its impressive Ducal Palace houses one of the most important collections of Renaissance paintings in Italy. Urbino Location: Urbino is in the northern part of central Italy's Marche Region, one of the more remote and least touristed regions of Italy. Urbino is about 30km from the Adriatic coast. (see Marche region map).