1 Generally, the goose will sit on the nest and the gander will stand guard nearby. 2  They will lay a range of 4-8 eggs per clutch and the eggs will hatch within 25-30 days. 3  Canada geese will renest if a nest is destroyed. 1 Once the nest is built, egg laying will begin from 1-3 days. 2  Nest cover can be any form of vegetation available within the area. 3  Preferably dense vegetation 24 inches high, such as native grasslands and CRP fields. 4  The hen will lay an average of 9 eggs which will hatch within 28 days once incubation begins.
One of my friend's ducks just hatched 19 eggs if you want 23 ducks to take care of I would suggest that you remove a few.My duck is sitting on 10 eggs and she laid them one a day. 
In 24 to 28 days for wild mallard ducks (28 to 32 days for muscovies), all the eggs in the nest will hatch within a twenty-four to 48 hour period. The female will return to the selected site to lay an egg each day, then return to the water to be with the male. Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime
Pekin ducks are less broody than other ducks which means they will incubate eggs less frequently and they are more likely to abandon their nest before their eggs hatch. Hens can be used to sit on the duck eggs, or they can be incubated artificially. Pekin ducks, for the most part, are too heavy to get airborne. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Duck eggs take 28-30 days to hatch, except for Muscovy eggs, which take 35 days. If you find a wild duck's nest on your property and don't see the mother on the eggs, don't necessarily worry. Ducks lay an egg every day or two until they have a full clutch (usually 8 to 15); only then will the mother start to sit on them. It takes the eggs 28 days to hatch from when she starts sitting all the time. When they hatch, she will soon lead them to a nearby body of water. The father takes no part in caring for the eggs or young. Source(s): internet readings.
How many eggs she will lay is determined by the breed of duck. Some breeds lay lots of eggs, some not as many. If you collect her eggs when she lays them, she won't sit on them. If you want her to hatch them, then leave them in her nest and after she has layed several eggs, she will start sitting on them. I have 2 male ducks, one a mallard and the other 1/2 black and 1/2 mallard. I have 1 female that is also 1/2 mallard and 1/2 black duck. Today 12/7/08 I saw the black male mating with the female and that has trigger several questions.
My ducks lay 1 egg per day, everyday. I think there was only one month in which they didn't lay any eggs. Ducks don't normally sit on their nest of eggs till they have a full clutch(which is approx. 12-15 eggs). One of my girls started laying not to long ago and after there was about 7 or 8 eggs i gathered them
Chicken Sit About 3 Weeks Ducks Sit Around 28 Days   Answer   The duck does not sit of the eggs to hatch it. They are hatched in the normal weather.   I have a duck … sitting on her eggs for about 2 weeks that I know off. 16 people found this useful. 