This is a heterogeneous group of tests that use either the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique or Transcription mediated amplification (TMA) or other forms of nucleic acid amplification methods to detect mycobacterial nucleic acid. 
Specimen Type: Blood. Description: This test is used to look for the presence of Hepatitis B (Hep B) viral genetic material in the blood. The results for this test are quantitative, meaning they provide a numerical result rather than a simple positive or negative. Results for this test are quantitative. People who require a Hep B PCR test but only desire a positive or negative result may order the Hepatitis B PCR Qualitative test.
PCR (polymerase chain reaction) is a method to analyze a short sequence of DNA (or RNA) even in samples containing only minute quantities of DNA or RNA. PCR is used to reproduce (amplify) selected sections of DNA or RNA. Previously, amplification of DNA involved cloning the segments of interest into vectors for expression in bacteria, and took weeks. But now, with PCR done in test tubes, it takes only a few hours. PCR is highly efficient in that untold numbers of copies can be made of the DNA.
1 Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. 2  A PCR test can be done on cells or fluid from a sore or on blood or on other fluid, such as spinal fluid. 3  PCR finds the genetic material (DNA) of the HSV virus. 4  This test can tell the difference between HSV-1 and HSV-2. 5  Using the PCR test on skin sores isn't common. 1 PCR finds the genetic material (DNA) of the HSV virus. 2  This test can tell the difference between HSV-1 and HSV-2. 3  Using the PCR test on skin sores isn't common. 4  PCR is used mainly for testing spinal fluid in rare cases when herpes may have caused an infection in or around the brain.
1 Using the PCR test on skin sores isn't common. 2  PCR is used mainly for testing spinal fluid in rare cases when herpes may have caused an infection in or around the brain. 3  Antibody tests. 4  Blood tests can find antibodies that are made by the immune system to fight a herpes infection. 1 PCR finds the genetic material (DNA) of the HSV virus. 2  This test can tell the difference between HSV-1 and HSV-2. 3  Using the PCR test on skin sores isn't common. 4
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). PCR is a laboratory method used for making a very large number of copies of short sections of DNA from a very small sample of genetic material. This process is called amplifying the DNA and it enables specific genes of interest to be detected or measured. This method is used to measure the amount of DNA that is present in a sample. RT – PCR (Reverse Transcriptase PCR). This method uses PCR to amplify RNA. RNA is a single stranded nucleic acid molecule and needs to be made into DNA before it can be amplified.
1 A PCR test can be done on cells or fluid from a sore or on blood or on other fluid, such as spinal fluid. 2  PCR finds the genetic material (DNA) of the HSV virus. 3  This test can tell the difference between HSV-1 and HSV-2. 4  Using the PCR test on skin sores isn't common. 1 PCR finds the genetic material (DNA) of the HSV virus. 2  This test can tell the difference between HSV-1 and HSV-2. 3  Using the PCR test on skin sores isn't common. 4  PCR is used mainly for testing spinal fluid in rare cases when herpes may have caused an infection in or around the brain.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technique that is used to amplify trace amounts of DNA (and in some instances, RNA) located in or on almost any liquid or surface where DNA strands may be deposited. 
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. 1 If the genomic DNA sequence of a gene is known, RT-PCR can be used to map the location of exons and introns in the gene. 2  The 5' end of a gene (corresponding to the transcription start site) is typically identified by RACE-PCR (Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends).