Obviously there are outlying stores that make more and some make less. So for a 200k investment in an existing store with reasonable rent, you will probably see sales of $6500 a week translating into about $60,000 cash flow in your pocket as an owner operator working 40 hours a week. It is relatively easy to pull 20% profit if you keep an eye on the business. I averaged 22.63% for the first quarter this year and I was in my stores an average of 10 hours or less per week so 20% is not that hard. But for the following estimate, lets use 20% average profit.
But keep in mind that brokers are paid a commission only when you buy a franchise from one of their clients. When you sign your franchise agreement, the broker will typically earn 40% to 50% of the franchise fee you pay to the franchisor or even more, since most brokers have a minimum fee in the range of $12,000. The simple answer is that franchise brokers are hired by franchise companies to sell you a franchise. If you are looking at franchise opportunities, sooner or later you will become acquainted with a broker network.
And, they only get paid if you buy a franchise from one of their clients. If they tell you that a hair care franchise is perfect for you, they may be right. In addition to the hair care chain they introduce you to, get information on all of the other hair care franchises available. The simple answer is that franchise brokers are hired by franchise companies to sell you a franchise. If you are looking at franchise opportunities, sooner or later you will become acquainted with a broker network.
The difficulty obtaining information on how much you can make is the Achilles heel of franchising, said Peter Birkeland, host of the radio show Franchise Boot Camp. Of the 2,000 or more companies that franchise, few offer much data. To get a preliminary idea of what a franchise may be worth to you, see the book How Much Can I Make? by Robert E. Bond, which contains franchisor-provided financial information from 137 different companies.
Now lets say you were lucky enough to get a great location and you store does $15k/week (the area I am in has several stores that do this and much more in sales so it is very possible), well you should be making in excess of $150k per year. It is relatively easy to pull 20% profit if you keep an eye on the business. I averaged 22.63% for the first quarter this year and I was in my stores an average of 10 hours or less per week so 20% is not that hard. But for the following estimate, lets use 20% average profit.
When you calculate how much money you can make, include the franchise fee as an initial startup expense you will have to pay. Royalties to the franchisor, equipment and supplies, rent, insurance, building improvements, advertising and other costs must also be factored in when you calculate how much income you can make. Potential franchise owners research different franchisors to learn how much money they can make before they purchase a franchise.
When they approach a franchisor to learn more about it, they may find that this topic is difficult for franchisors to respond to. For a number of reasons, they cannot tell a possible future franchise owner how much they can make. Potential franchise owners research different franchisors to learn how much money they can make before they purchase a franchise.
How much does the average Subway owner net? I have $200,000 cash (is this too low for a business?) and I want to franchise a Subway/Jimmy Johns/7-Eleven/etc. in the Austin, Texas area. It is relatively easy to pull 20% profit if you keep an eye on the business. I averaged 22.63% for the first quarter this year and I was in my stores an average of 10 hours or less per week so 20% is not that hard. But for the following estimate, lets use 20% average profit.
EconoTax, a tax service business with 68 locations in seven states, lists charges of $10,000 for a franchise plus a royalty of 15 percent of the gross and another 4 percent for advertising. Candidates would expect out-of-pocket expenses to total from $10,000 to $25,000 to get off the ground. To get a preliminary idea of what a franchise may be worth to you, see the book How Much Can I Make? by Robert E. Bond, which contains franchisor-provided financial information from 137 different companies.
General Income. According to The Franchise Investigator website, the median annual income of a franchise owner was between $75,000 and $125,000 in 2010. The website claims that 30 percent of franchise owners earn more than $150,000 per year. Potential franchise owners research different franchisors to learn how much money they can make before they purchase a franchise.