If you are an instructor, and you wish to submit student papers to Turnitin yourself (i.e., students have not submitted their papers with the Turnitin option enabled in Assignments), it's best to submit the papers directly through Turnitin.com, not through Canvas or Oncourse. PeerMark is available only from the Turnitin site, not through Canvas or Oncourse. GradeMark is available through Canvas and Oncourse, but in Oncourse, students will be unable to view comments until after the due date for an assignment. Canvas also offers some tools that provide similar functionality.
No, Turnitin does not detect plagiarism per se; Turnitin just finds text that matches other sources in the vast Turnitin databases and shows those matches. It is up to a human being to determine whether those text matches are a problem or not. It is important to realize that the Similarity Index is NOT a plagiarism index” – there is no score that is inherently good” or bad”. 0% does not necessarily mean that everything is OK with the student’s paper and 75% does not necessarily mean that the student should flunk.
Turnitin is a Web-based service that can find and highlight matching or unoriginal text in a written assignment. It uses data-mining to compile a large database of electronic academic materials which it indexes and stores. Turnitin basically checks the assignment against its database of materials to look for matches or near-matches in strings of text. Turnitin then generates an Originality Report online. The Originality Report summarizes and highlights matching text.
WriteCheck is designed for students to check for plagiarism and grammar or other writing mistakes while Turnitin is used by instructors to check for originality and quality of writing, facilitate peer review and enable online grading of student’s written work. Both services search the same database content. WriteCheck is an online plagiarism checker that also provides a grammar checker tool by ETS® and a Tutor service by Pearson®. WriteCheck helps students become better writers by identifying grammar errors and unoriginal content in written work
Turnitin is web-based plagiarism detection software owned by Turnitin.com, Inc., and is available to instructors at Indiana University's Bloomington, Indianapolis, East, Kokomo, Northwest, South Bend, and Southeast campuses. PeerMark is available only from the Turnitin site, not through Canvas or Oncourse. GradeMark is available through Canvas and Oncourse, but in Oncourse, students will be unable to view comments until after the due date for an assignment. Canvas also offers some tools that provide similar functionality.
Turnitin is an Internet-based plagiarism-prevention service created by iParadigms, LLC, first launched in 1997. Typically, universities and high schools buy licenses to submit essays to the Turnitin website, which checks the documents for unoriginal content. iParadigms, the company behind Turnitin, runs another website called WriteCheck where students can submit their papers to be tested against the same database used by Turnitin, and determine whether or not their paper will be detected as plagiarism.
Lots of people have impressions about Turnitin-what it is, what it does, how it works. Unfortunately, many of these impressions are based on misconceptions. So to kick off our new blog, we’ll tackle the #1 misconception: that Turnitin detects plagiarism. It is important to realize that the Similarity Index is NOT a plagiarism index” – there is no score that is inherently good” or bad”. 0% does not necessarily mean that everything is OK with the student’s paper and 75% does not necessarily mean that the student should flunk.
Students may be required by schools to submit essays to Turnitin, as a deterrent to plagiarism. This has been a source of criticism, with some students refusing to do so in the belief that requiring it constitutes a presumption of guilt. iParadigms, the company behind Turnitin, runs another website called WriteCheck where students can submit their papers to be tested against the same database used by Turnitin, and determine whether or not their paper will be detected as
Written on. . It is important to realize that the Similarity Index is NOT a plagiarism index” – there is no score that is inherently good” or bad”. 0% does not necessarily mean that everything is OK with the student’s paper and 75% does not necessarily mean that the student should flunk.