If you have symptoms of yeast and parasites, take 5,000 mg (5 grams) per day spread out in 2-3 doses. Do not take vitamin C at the same time as calcium/magnesium as they will neutralize each other. High consumption of Vitamin C may cause loose bowel movements, especially when yeast and parasites are being removed. 
Most medical stool tests may come back negative when in fact you do have intestinal parasites, particularly worms. Most medical doctors may still be trained and think that you need to visit a third-world country to obtain an intestinal parasite. The physical signs, the emotional or mental signs of this kind of parasitic infestation can be subtle or quite overt. Your personality could be affected by the presence of parasites in your gut. Normally that is the case if you have had them for most of your life.
Investigate unexplained weight loss and lethargy. These can occur if you’ve had intestinal parasites for a long time. Chronic fatigue can sometimes be caused by intestinal parasites. Ask your doctor for a stool test. Not all parasites produce obvious symptoms, so you might have intestinal parasites for years and never realize it.
From This Episode: While intestinal parasites can cause a multitude of symptoms, here are five general warning signs to keep an eye out for: 1  Changes in the appearance or frequency of bowel movements, especially if you have excessive diarrhea or loose stools for two weeks. 2  Chronic exhaustion not resolved by a week of restful sleep. Most of the time, your body's immune system helps to keep parasites in check or clear them from the body so they don't cause any symptoms. Sometimes, though, those pesky digestive complaints could be a sign that the parasites are getting the better of you. Keep reading to see if parasites could be making you sick.
Types of Signs. Many people have parasites, particularly intestinal worms and don't know it. The physical signs, the emotional or mental signs of this kind of parasitic infestation can be subtle or quite overt. Your personality could be affected by the presence of parasites in your gut. Normally that is the case if you have had them for most of your life.
Once a person is infected with a parasite, it's very easy to pass it along. If you have a parasite and don't wash your hands after using the restroom, you can easily pass microscopic parasite eggs onto anything you touch — the door handle, the salt shaker, your phone, or anyone you touch. It's also very easy to contract a parasite when handling animals. 10 Signs You May Have a Parasite. 1  You have an explained constipation, diarrhea, gas, or other symptoms of IBS. 2  You traveled internationally and remember getting traveler’s diarrhea while abroad. 3  You have a history of food poisoning and your digestion has not been the same since.
Instructions. Look for symptoms such as chronic diarrhea, abdominal pain, bloating, and nausea and vomiting. If you can’t identify a cause for these symptoms and they seem to keep coming back on a regular basis, they could indicate the presence of intestinal parasites. Pay attention to your bowel movements. These can occur if you’ve had intestinal parasites for a long time. Chronic fatigue can sometimes be caused by intestinal parasites. Ask your doctor for a stool test. Not all parasites produce obvious symptoms, so you might have intestinal parasites for years and never realize it.
People with intestinal worms may experience digestive changes, including loss of appetite or nausea when presented with food. If a large amount of worms accumulates in the intestines, the intestines can become obstructed, which can result in constipation. Intestinal worms can also cause diarrhea, which may be bloody. Adult worms may also be present in the feces. Tapeworm infections can cause people to develop abdominal pains and cramping. People who are biologically female with pinworms may have pain around the genitals and urinary tract, and severe infections can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease, which can cause chronic pelvic pain. People infected with the intestinal worm Ascaris may experience difficulty breathing. If the worms invade the lungs, those infected may have frequent cough
If you think you might have a parasite, I encourage you find a functional medicine physician in your area so that they can order a comprehensive stool test for you. My motto is, It all starts in your gut and your gut is the gateway to health. A healthy gut makes a healthy person. Photo Credit: Shutterstock.com. 1  SHARE. 10 Signs You May Have a Parasite. 1  You have an explained constipation, diarrhea, gas, or other symptoms of IBS. 2  You traveled internationally and remember getting traveler’s diarrhea while abroad. 3  You have a history of food poisoning and your digestion has not been the same since.