Causes. Facet syndrome can be caused by trauma, such as a whiplash injury of the neck. Abnormal postures can overload spinal tissues, including the facet joints, and cause inflammation and pain in these joints. More commonly, degenerative changes in the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spine can lead to abnormal stress and strain. 1 Thoracic facet syndrome is less common than cervical and lumbar facet syndrome and is probably related to restricted motion at these levels due to the rigidity of the thoracic spine. 2  Pain experienced in thoracic facet syndrome is likely to be felt locally near the affected segment near the midline
The symptoms of cervical facet syndrome are quite extensive and may not be thought of as originating in the cervical facet joints. It is common for patients to feel worse in the morning when waking up. It’s hard to move the neck because of stiffness. In the lower back, lumbar facet syndrome is one of the most common conditions contributing to lower back pain. This article discusses the symptoms, potential causes and treatment recommendations for cervical facet syndrome.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Facet syndrome is a syndrome in which the zygapophysial joints (synovial diarthroses, from C2 to S1) cause back pain. 55% of facet syndrome cases occur in cervical vertebrae, and 31% in lumbar. Facet syndrome can progress to spinal osteoarthritis, which is known as spondylosis. Pathology of the C1-C2 (atlantoaxial) joint, the most mobile of all vertebral segments, accounts for 4% of all spondylosis. The facet joints are formed by the superior and inferior processes of each vertebra.
Interestingly, when the acute lumbar or cervical facet joint inflammation is at its peak, the symptoms may closely imitate those of a herniated disc, a deep infection, a fracture, or a torn muscle of the spine, or in the low back, sometimes an acute intra-abdominal problem. 
Diagnosis. Cervical Facet Syndrome is a diagnosis of exclusion that is supported by a combination of clinical history, physical examination, radiography, and MRI and by intra-articular injection of the suspected facet joints. 
Facet syndrome in the cervical (upper) spine. Cervical facet syndrome, also known as cervical facet disease or cervical osteoarthritis, is the structural deterioration of one or more of the vertebral facet joints in the cervical segment of the spine, which is located in the neck. Treatment of cervical facet syndrome. Treatment for cervical facet syndrome is most often first attempted conservatively with non-surgical techniques. This course of treatment is intended to manage the patient’s pain and increase mobility in the joint.
Cervical facet syndrome may be caused by trauma, chronic postural strain and cervical spine disc degeneration. Repeated trauma, such as a “whiplash” automobile crash or other similar sudden back and forth rapid unguarded movements to the neck. In the lower back, lumbar facet syndrome is one of the most common conditions contributing to lower back pain. This article discusses the symptoms, potential causes and treatment recommendations for cervical facet syndrome.
Many pain generators are located in the cervical spine, including the intervertebral discs, facet joints, ligaments, muscles, and nerve roots. The facet joints have been found to be a possible source of neck pain, and the diagnosis of cervical facet syndrome is often one of exclusion or not considered at all. Cervical facet joint pain is a common sequela of whiplash injury. Barnsley and Lord et al studied the prevalence of chronic cervical facet joint pain after whiplash injury using double-blind, controlled, diagnostic blocks of the facet joints.
There are many causes of neck pain. A common cause is cervical facet syndrome. This occurs when the joints of the neck become inflamed and pain develops. It is not age specific, but can occur when the joints have been injured and have lost the ability to glide and move correctly. In the lower back, lumbar facet syndrome is one of the most common conditions contributing to lower back pain. This article discusses the symptoms, potential causes and treatment recommendations for