REDOX stands for Reduction/Oxidation. Suggest new definition. This definition appears very frequently and is found in the following Acronym Finder categories: 1  Science, medicine, engineering, etc. Plurion Systems is an Alberta-based company engaged in the development and commercialization of high capacity reduction/oxidation (RedOx) battery technology for use in electrical energy storage applications.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Oxidation Definition: Oxidation is the loss of electrons during a reaction by a molecule, atom or ion. Oxidation occurs when the oxidation state of a molecule, atom or ion is increased. An older meaning of oxidation was when oxygen was added to a compound. Example: Iron combines with oxygen to form iron oxide or rust
Samples in periodicals archive: Redox/Redox state: Shorthand for reduction/oxidation reactions. Plurion Systems is an Alberta-based company engaged in the development and commercialization of high capacity reduction/oxidation (RedOx) battery technology for use in electrical energy storage applications.
Historically, the term oxidation was used because the redox reactions that were first systematically investigated took place in oxygen, with oxygen being reduced and the other species being oxidized, hence the term oxidation reaction. The Ce 4+ ion, which is reduced acts as the oxidizing agent. So oxidation reactions need not involve oxygen. This redox reaction is actually the sum of two separate half-reactions (a reduction half-reaction and an oxidation half-reaction).
The term RedOx comes from the two processes that occur during a reaction: REDuction and OXidation. These reactions occur together, they cannot occur separately. Oxidation is the term given to the process of gain/addition of electrons from another compound, ion, or atom. Because the oxidizing substance removes electrons from another substance, which are then added to itself, the oxidizing substance becomes “reduced” (more negative). Reduction is the term given to the process of loss/removal of electrons, which are given to another compound, atom, or ion. Because the reducing substance gives electrons to another substance it becomes “oxidized” itself (more positive). And because it “donates” electrons it is called an electron donor.
As a side note, the term oxidation, with its obvious root from the word oxygen, assumes that oxygen has an oxidation number of -2. Using this as a benchmark, oxidation numbers were assigned to all other elements. As a summary, here are the steps to follow to balance a redox equation in acidic medium (add the starred step in a basic medium): 1  Divide the equation into an oxidation half-reaction and a reduction half-reaction. 2  Balance these. 3  Balance the elements other than H and O.
A reduction reaction is seen from the point of view of the molecule being reduced, as when one molecule gets reduced another gets oxidised. The full reaction is known as a Redox reaction. This can be remembered with the term OIL RIG when speaking about electrons. 1  Oxidation Is Loss. 2  Reduction Is Gain. The overall potential of a redox reaction is the sum of the reduction and oxidation half-reaction potentials. 1  The potential of a chemical cell is a sum of the potentials of the half reactions. 2  When adding the half-cell potentials, make sure that there is a reduction and an oxidation taking place.
Reducing agents remove oxygen from another substance or give hydrogen to it. Oxidation and reduction in terms of electron transfer This is easily the most important use of the terms oxidation and reduction at A' level. Definitions Oxidation is loss of electrons. DEFINITIONS OF OXIDATION AND REDUCTION (REDOX) This page looks at the various definitions of oxidation and reduction (redox) in terms of the transfer of oxygen, hydrogen and electrons. It also explains the terms oxidising agent and reducing agent