Peptic ulcer disease (PUD), also known as a peptic ulcer or stomach ulcer, is a break in the lining of the stomach, first part of the small intestine, or occasionally the lower esophagus. An ulcer in the stomach is known as a gastric ulcer while that in the first part of the intestines is known as a duodenal ulcer. Common causes include the bacteria, Helicobacter pylori and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Other less common causes include tobacco smoking, stress due to serious illness, Behcet disease, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, Crohn disease and liver cirrhosis, among others.
Treatment of peptic ulcer disease should include eradication of H. pylori in patients with this infection (Table 419,21–25) . The recommended duration of therapy for eradication is 10 to 14 days; however, shorter treatment courses (regimens of one, five, and seven days) are being assessed. Upper gastrointestinal bleeding occurs in 15 to 20 percent of patients with peptic ulcer disease. It is the most common cause of death and the most common indication for surgery in the disease. In older persons, 20 percent of bleeding episodes result from asymptomatic ulcers.
The two most common causes of peptic ulcers are: 1  Infection with Helicobacter pyloriHelicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. 2  Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 3  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 1
Causes of Peptic Ulcers. Different factors can cause the lining of the stomach, the esophagus, and the small intestine to break down. These include: 1  Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) - a bacteria that can cause a stomach infection and inflammation. 2  frequent use of aspirin, ibuprofen, and other anti-inflammatory drugs (risk associated with this behavior is increased in women and people over the age of 60). 3  smoking. 4  drinking too much alcohol. Untreated ulcers can become worse over time and lead to other, more serious health complications, such as: 1  perforation-A hole develops in the lining of the stomach or small intestine and causes an infection. 2  Signs of a perforated ulcer include sudden, severe abdominal pain.
A perforation is a medical emergency. The most common cause of such damage is infection of the stomach by bacteria called Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori). Most people with peptic ulcers have these bacteria living in their gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Yet, many people who have these bacteria in their stomach do not develop an ulcer. 
The two most common causes of peptic ulcers are: 1  Infection with Helicobacter pyloriHelicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. 2  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . 1 Infection with Helicobacter pyloriHelicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. 2  Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few get ulcers. 3
1 Peptic ulcers are sores in the lining of the stomach or duodenum. 2  Peptic ulcer formation is related to H. pylori bacteria in the stomach and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) in 50% of patients. A peptic ulcer is a break in the inner lining of the esophagus, stomach, or duodenum. A peptic ulcer of the stomach is called a gastric ulcer; of the duodenum, a duodenal ulcer; and of the esophagus, an esophageal ulcer.
Healthwise. Medical Reference. A. The two most common causes of peptic ulcer disease are infection with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria and use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) . Although many people are infected with H. pylori bacteria, only a few of them will develop peptic ulcer disease. 
1 Peptic ulcer formation is related to H. pylori bacteria in the stomach and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) in 50% of patients. 2  For the remaining 50% there are miscellaneous or unknown causes. 3  Ulcer pain may not correlate with the presence or severity of ulceration. A peptic ulcer is a break in the inner lining of the esophagus, stomach, or duodenum. A peptic ulcer of the stomach is called a gastric ulcer; of the duodenum, a duodenal ulcer; and of the esophagus, an esophageal ulcer.
Peptic ulcer disease refers to painful sores or ulcers in the lining of the stomach or first part of the small intestine, called the duodenum. No single cause has been found for ulcers. However, it is now clear that an ulcer is the end result of an imbalance between digestive fluids in the stomach and duodenum. Most ulcers are caused by an infection with a type of bacteria called Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori).