1 Side effects of some medicines. 2  More than 400 medicines can cause the salivary glands to make less saliva. 3  For example, medicines for high blood pressure and depression often cause dry mouth. 4  Disease. 5  Some diseases affect the salivary glands. 6  Sjogren's syndrome, HIV / AIDS, and diabetes can all cause dry mouth. 1 For example, medicines for high blood pressure and depression often cause dry mouth. 2  Disease. 3  Some diseases affect the salivary glands. 4
The causes can include: 1  Medicines. 2  Various medicines can cause a dry mouth as a side-effect. 3  For example, tricyclic antidepressants, antihistamines, antimuscarinic medicines, some anti-epileptic medicines, some antipsychotics, beta-blockers and 'water tablets' (diuretics). 1 Various medicines can cause a dry mouth as a side-effect. 2
Dry mouth is the feeling that there is not enough saliva in the mouth. Everyone has a dry mouth once in a while—if they are nervous, upset or under stress. But if you have a dry mouth all or most of the time, it can be uncomfortable and can lead to serious health problems. It can also be a sign of certain diseases and conditions. Dry mouth treatment will depend on what is causing the problem. If you think you have dry mouth, see your dentist or physician. He or she can try to determine what is causing your dry mouth. 1  If your dry mouth is caused by medicine, your physician might change your medicine or adjust the dosage.
There are several causes of dry mouth: 1  Side effects of certain medications. 2  Dry mouth is a common side effect of some prescription and non-prescription drugs. 3  Side effects of certain medical conditions, for example Sjoegren'sjögren s, syndrome and. 4  Infections side effect of certain medical.  treatments 1 Damage to the salivary glands, the glands that produce saliva, for example, from radiation to the head and neck and chemotherapy treatments for cancer, can reduce the amount of saliva produced. 2  Nerve damage. 3  Dry mouth can be a result of nerve damage to the head and neck area from an injury or surgery.
There are several causes of dry mouth: 1  Side effects of certain medications. 2  Side effects of certain medical conditions, for example Sjoegren'sjögren s, syndrome and. 3  Infections side effect of certain medical. 4  Treatments nerve. 5  Damage. 6  Dehydration surgical removal of the salivary. 7  Glands.  lifestyle 1 Damage to the salivary glands, the glands that produce saliva, for example, from radiation to the head and neck and chemotherapy treatments for cancer, can reduce the amount of saliva produced. 2  Nerve damage. 3  Dry mouth can be a result of nerve damage to the head and neck area from an injury or surgery.
1 Dry mouth can be a result of nerve damage to the head and neck area from an injury or surgery. 2  Dehydration. 3  Conditions that lead to dehydration, such as fever, excessive sweating, vomiting, diarrhea, blood loss, and burns can cause dry mouth. 4  Surgical removal of the salivary glands. 5  Lifestyle. Common symptoms include: 1  A sticky, dry feeling in the mouth. 2  Frequent thirst. 3  Sores in the mouth; sores or split skin at the corners of the mouth; cracked lips. 4  A dry feeling in the throat. 5  A burning or tingling sensation in the mouth and especially on the tongue.
Dry mouth is the feeling that there is not enough saliva in the mouth. Everyone has a dry mouth once in a while -- if they are nervous, upset or under stress. But if you have a dry mouth all or most of the time, it can be uncomfortable and can lead to serious health problems. 1 For example, medicines for high blood pressure and depression often cause dry mouth. 2  Disease. 3  Some diseases affect the salivary glands. 4  Sjogren's syndrome, HIV / AIDS, and diabetes can all
1 Nerve damage. 2  Dry mouth can be a result of nerve damage to the head and neck area from an injury or surgery. 3  Dehydration. 4  Conditions that lead to dehydration, such as fever, excessive sweating, vomiting, diarrhea, blood loss, and burns can cause dry mouth. 5  Surgical removal of the salivary glands. 6  Lifestyle. Common symptoms include: 1  A sticky, dry feeling in the mouth. 2  Frequent thirst. 3  Sores in the mouth; sores or split skin at the corners of the mouth; cracked lips. 4  A dry feeling in the throat. 5  A burning or tingling sensation in the mouth and especially on the tongue.
1 Dry mouth can be a side effect of medical conditions, including Sjoegren'sjögren s, SYNDROME /HIV, Aids'alzheimer s, disease, diabetes, anemia cystic, fibrosis rheumatoid, arthritis, Hypertension'parkinson s, disease, stroke and. 2  Mumps side effect of certain medical.  treatments Common symptoms include: 1  A sticky, dry feeling in the mouth. 2  Frequent thirst. 3  Sores in the mouth; sores or split skin at the corners of the mouth; cracked lips. 4  A dry feeling in the throat. 5  A burning or tingling sensation in the mouth and especially on the tongue.
Everyone has a dry mouth once in a while, especially if you're nervous, upset or under stress. But if you have a dry mouth all or most of the time, it can be uncomfortable and can lead to more serious health problems or indicate that a more serious medical condition may exist. Everyone's mouth feels dry from time to time. It's when this feeling doesn't go away that you may have a problem with saliva production. Symptoms of dry mouth include: 1  A sticky, dry feeling in your mouth. 2  Trouble swallowing. 3  A burning sensation on your tongue. 4  A dry feeling in your throat. 5  Cracked lips.