1 Open a document. 2  If there are new changes, click the See new changes button to the right the Help menu. 3  You can also click the File See new changes. 4  In the top right, use the arrows to scroll through the list of changes. 5  Note: Added text is highlighted. 6  Deleted text has a strikethrough. See revision history for a file. 1  Open a document, spreadsheet, presentation, or drawing. 2  Click the File See revision history. 3  Click a timestamp in the panel on the right to see a previous version of the file.
Genius Vision FAQ Page 16 of 69 See also ● System Integrator's Manual How to use USB joystick 1. First we need to verify the compatibility between the software and the speed dom, for example 3-Axis joystick as shown below, by using mouse control instead of joystick. Genius Vision FAQ Page 50 of 69. Genius Vision FAQ Page 51 of 69 How to switch off the notification in the system briefcase viewer and in the live video Note: Video loss alarm has changed to “ default off ” since version 838. 1. Open “video setup” dialog and set VlossAlarm at “off” mode 2.
Genius Vision FAQ Page 23 of 69 Here you can disable the “Tamper detect”. Genius Vision FAQ Page 24 of 69 How can I acknowledge alarm for all channels Put the cursor on the alarm log of the System Briefcase Viewer, left click to evoke the dialog. Genius Vision FAQ Page 50 of 69. Genius Vision FAQ Page 51 of 69 How to switch off the notification in the system briefcase viewer and in the live video Note: Video loss alarm has changed to “ default off ” since version 838. 1. Open “video setup” dialog and set VlossAlarm at “off” mode 2.
See new changes in a file. If you are working on a document with other people, you can see what new changes have been added by your collaborators when you open the file. 1  Open a document. 2  If there are new changes, click the See new changes button to the right the Help menu. 3  You can also click the File See new changes. See revision history for a file. 1  Open a document, spreadsheet, presentation, or drawing. 2  Click the File See revision history. 3  Click a timestamp in the panel on the right to see a previous version of the file.
Genius Vision FAQ Page 54 of 69 How to tell if I’m using Community Edition or Commercial Edition? The simplest way is to look at the software window title. If it says CmE then you are using non-commercial Community Edition. If you are using our software in commercial context then you need to pay for it. Genius Vision FAQ Page 50 of 69. Genius Vision FAQ Page 51 of 69 How to switch off the notification in the system briefcase viewer and in the live video Note: Video loss alarm has changed to “ default off ” since version 838. 1. Open “video setup” dialog and set VlossAlarm at “off” mode 2.
Truevision TGA, often referred to as TARGA, is a raster graphics file format created by Truevision Inc. (now part of Avid Technology). It was the native format of TARGA and VISTA boards, which were the first graphic cards for IBM-compatible PCs to support Highcolor / truecolor display. TGA files commonly have the extension .tga on PC DOS / Windows systems and Mac OS X (older Macintosh systems use the TPIC type code). The format can store image data with 8, 15, 16, 24, or 32 bits of precision per pixel – the maximum 24 bits of RGB and an extra 8-bit alpha channel.
How to use Remo Software: After downloading the software install it on your computer. On the main window select “ Recover Files ”. Next, select “ Recover Deleted Files ” or “ Recover Lost Files ” according to your file loss scenario. In the event, if you selected “ Recover Lost Files ”, then select the file type on next window.
3. To make sure the 3D Vision Photo Viewer is always used for MPO files, click the checkbox Always. use the selected program to open this kind of file. 4. MPO files are now associated with the 3D Vision Photo Viewer and will launch in full-screen mode. when opened. 5. To quit viewing the picture, press Escape. You can use the Photo Viewer to then edit the MPO file. While viewing MPO files on your PC, you can make adjustments to the picture to correct 3D settings. The. table below lists the hotkeys and how to use them to fix your file.
The NVIDIA 3D Vision Photo Viewer reads the auto or manual parallax values set by the Fujifilm camera when. the photo is taken and/or edited on the camera. You can use the Photo Viewer to then edit the MPO file. While viewing MPO files on your PC, you can make adjustments to the picture to correct 3D settings. The. table below lists the hotkeys and how to use them to fix your file.