Well, according to the CIA's The World Factbook, the current average human lifespan is approximately 66 and a half years. On average the current life expectancy for the world is about 67.2 years. (see the first related link). The current average life expectancy for just the US is 78.3 years. Actually, Scientists Have Discovered That The Average Lifespan for a New Born Baby Exceed's 100 Year's, If It Is Born in The Next Ten Year's.
The dramatic increase in average life expectancy during the 20th century ranks as one of society’s greatest achievements. Although most babies born in 1900 did not live past age 50, life expectancy at birth now exceeds 83 years in Japan—the current leader—and is at least 81 years in several other countries. 
Mathematically, life expectancy is the mean number of years of life remaining at a given age, assuming constant mortality rates. It is denoted by, which means the average number of subsequent years of life for someone now aged, according to a particular mortality experience. The term life expectancy may also be used in the context of manufactured objects, although the related term shelf life is used for consumer products and the terms mean time to breakdown (MTTB) and  mean time between failures  (MTBF) are used in engineering.
Life expectancy is defined statistically as the average number of years remaining for an individual or a group of people at a given age. Longevity refers to the characteristics of the relatively long life span of some members of a population. Moreover, because life expectancy is an average, a particular person may well die many years before or many years after their expected survival. The term  maximum life span  has a quite different meaning and is more related to longevity. The term life expectancy may also be used in the context of manufactured objects, although the related term shelf life is used for consumer products and the terms mean time to breakdown (MTTB) and  mean time between failures  (MTBF) are used in engineering.
The average life expectancy for a person who was 65 years old in 2012 is 19.3 years – 20.5 years for women and 17.9 years for men. The difference in life expectancy at 65 years between males and females increased 0.1 year from 2.5 years in 2011 to 2.6 years in 2012. Life expectancy in the USA rose in 2012 to 78.8 years – a record high. That was an increase of 0.1 year from 2011 when it was 78.7 years, according to a new report on mortality in the USA from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics.
Answer to question Actually, Scientists Have Discovered That The Average Lifespan for a New Born Baby Exceed's 100 Year's, If It Is Born in The Next Ten Year's. 86 for a ma … n and 100 for a woman Well, according to the CIA's The World Factbook, the current average human lifespan is approximately 66 and a half years. 
The oldest confirmed recorded age for any human ever born is 122 years of age.... Life expectancy is the average number of years of life remaining at a given age. It is the average expected lifespan of an individual. Today humans have an average life span of 31.99 years in Swaziland and 82 years in Japan. Our chart shows statistics for the average age you will live based on various world countries. Life span is the average expected years to live of an individual from birth. Our life statistics chart shows how long males and females can expect to live for in various world countries. (Age in years from birth to death). Today humans have an average life span of 31.99 years in Swaziland and 82 years in Japan. The oldest confirmed recorded age for any human ever born is 122 years of age, though some people are reported to have lived longer there are no records to confirm these claim
Worldwide, the average life expectancy at birth was 71.0 years (68.5 years for males and 73.5 years for females) over the period 2010–2013 according to United Nations World Population Prospects 2012 Revision, or 70.7 years (68.2 years for males and 73.2 years for females) for 2009 according to The World Factbook. Methodology [edit]. Life expectancy equals the average number of years a person born in a given country would live if mortality rates at each age were to remain constant in the future. The life expectancy is shown separately for males and females, as well as a combined figure