Stress fractures heal with time and rest. Athletes are advised to rest from any activity that caused the stress fracture for the 6-14 weeks that the fractures take to heal (ask your doctor how long your particular fracture will probably take to heal), or until pain-free for 2-3 weeks. A stress fracture results from repetitive use injuries that exceed the ability of the bone to repair itself. Impact forces are transferred to the bones, causing microfractures that consolidate into stress fractures. Stress fractures occur in weight-bearing areas, commonly the lower leg (tibia) and foot (metatarsals).
When fracturing the skull the healing process takes a lot longer than any other fracture, like a fracture in the wrist or foot. Beca … use of how much was damage and depending on the area of the fracture and the extent of the damage, the healing process could take up to a year, and in some cases even longer. Hairline fractures are sometimes so small, it may be difficult to  be detected on an x-ray. You will need to give the fracture two to  three weeks to calm down and after t … hat time, you will notice the  bruising and swelling reducing. After that, expect to make a full  recovery in three to six weeks.
Arm Fracture (Definition). An arm fracture typically refers to a fracture of the bone in the upper arm, the humerus or of the bones in the forearm, the radius and/or the ulna. Fractures in the hand and wrist are usually not called arm fractures. Get help from a doctor now ›. 8-12 weeks: Depending on type of fracture and location and general condition of host (healthy or multiple medical problems) fracture healing is variable but most heal in 10 weeks with sufficient strength to use normally. ...Read more.
8-12 weeks: Depending on type of fracture and location and general condition of host (healthy or multiple medical problems) fracture healing is variable but most heal in 10 weeks with sufficient strength to use normally. Get help from a doctor now ›. 8-12 weeks: Depending on type of fracture and location and general condition of host (healthy or multiple medical problems) fracture healing is variable but most heal in 10 weeks with sufficient strength to use normally. ...Read more.
In this article. The initial treatment for a stress fracture is to elevate the extremity and rest while the bone heals itself. Ice the affected area for 24 to 48 hours and reduce your activity. For pain, you may use NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) like ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin. For the next six to eight weeks -- or until you're free of pain -- avoid the activity that caused the stress fracture. If you exercise again too soon, you could delay the healing process. You could even cause damage that may never heal properly.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: i've done a hairline fracture on my ulna bone and in my foot and they both took 6 weeks. Where you broke yours, I did simple fracture and mine took 4 1/2 weeks to heal. It really depends on your body. Report Abuse. most fractures take about four to six weeks. I had fractures and broken bones from all the sports I've play over the years. What I know Is that after the cast comes off. You still need more time to get the strength back. That may take a while depending on may factors.
Forearm fractures. Broken arm is a term than can be used to describe a break or fracture of any bone in the arm. The two bones that make up the forearm are the radius and ulna. Radius fracture is a break to the radius bone on the inside or thumb side of the forearm.
Stress fracture of the forearm. A stress fracture of the forearm is a hairline crack or break in either of the forearm bones and is rare although may occur in sports where repetitive strain or overloading of the forearm muscles happens such as baseball, swimming or racket sports. Broken arm is a term than can be used to describe a break or fracture of any bone in the arm. The two bones that make up the forearm are the radius and ulna. Radius fracture is a break to the radius bone on the inside or thumb sid
A fracture is a broken bone. As there is cartilage at the end of many bones at the joint, a fracture may also include a break in the cartilage. Fractures and broken bones are the same thing. It seems that many believe that a fracture is a lesser injury or an incomplete break in the bone, but this is not correct. Get help from a doctor now ›. 8-12 weeks: Depending on type of fracture and location and general condition of host (healthy or multiple medical problems) fracture healing is variable but most heal in 10 weeks with sufficient strength to use normally. ...Read more.