WUDG Underground Columbus is one of two student-run radio stations at The Ohio Media School, formerly the Ohio Center for Broadcasting. 
He is tolerated despite a lack of integrity. In Columbus, we have a mayor and a city administrator that use lies and deception. I just want you to know that here, we don't have to tolerate that. I suggest a recall election to boot the mayor to the curb, and implore the city council to fire the city administrator. Prices are not lower, the selection is not better, the products are not different. We gave away 25 years of property tax income to create a store that is a lateral move. The people of Columbus are not in a better place. TIFs were invented to bring possibility where no possibility exists.
BrewDog Searching Central Columbus for Bar LocationWhile the 100,000 square foot BrewDog brewing facility will be located on the edge of the metro region in Canal Winchester, the company is looking for a more central home for their first local bar....columbusunderground.com. Satisfy your sweet tooth with the adventurous marshmallows from MMELO! Find out more about the treats on The Metropreneur: http://wp.me/p1131t-25j. MMELO Making Confectionery Magic through MarshmallowsThe marshmallows at MMELO are far from your average ‘mallow. Vanilla is the tame end of the flavor spectrum with more playful flavor combinations like pear, lemon and fresh thyme (all in one treat) ranking at the top of the best-seller list. themetropreneur
For the mock-up of a German residential center used by the United States military to perfect fire-bombing techniques during World War II, see German Village (Dugway proving ground) . German Village is a historic neighborhood in Columbus, Ohio, just south of downtown. It was settled in the early-to-mid-19th century by a large number of German immigrants, who at one time comprised as much as a third of the city's entire population. Although German Village is an eclectic community, the area is particularly known as a Columbus gayborhood.. While no gay establishments are located within the German Village limits, several gay-friendly bars are located in the neighboring Brewery District and Merion Village.
See what our theatre critic Richard Sanford had to say about the beautiful show: http://www.columbusunderground.com/theatre-review-shadowbox…. Theatre Review: Shadowbox's The Tenshu is an Ambitious Labor of LoveDisclosure: Columbus Underground is a Media Partner of this premier production of The Tenshu. Satisfy your sweet tooth with the adventurous marshmallows from MMELO! Find out more about the treats on The Metropreneur: http://wp.me/p1131t-25j. MMELO Making Confectionery Magic through MarshmallowsThe marshmallows at MMELO are far from your average ‘mallow. Vanilla is the tame end of the flavor spectrum with more playful flavor combinations like pear, lemon and fresh thyme (all in one treat) ranking at the top of the best-seller list. themetropreneur.com
No one knows what caused the 10-acre underground fire that is still burning in the landfill north of Cincinnati in Hamilton County. Three fires are burning in northeastern Ohio landfills, including one at the Countywide Disposal and Recycling Facility in Stark County. That one started in 2006. The EPA's Allen said she hopes that a new panel of Ohio and federal EPA officials can send her formal recommendations on fire prevention within six months. Club 3000's O'Dell said he'd like to see stronger penalties. He said Countywide should take in no more garbage until the fire is put out.
Restaurant Review: Phy Phom Pho. Grandview Avenue newcomer Phy Phom Pho is a nice, pared down stop. Open a few weeks, it replaces Jobu Ramen as a neighborhood outlet for some pho. ASPIRE 2015 to Highlight & Honor Social Enterprises in Columbus Join The Metropreneur, Rotary District 6690 and the local small business and entrepreneurial community on Thursday, October 29, 2015 at Studio 35 for ASPIRE, an event celebrating social enterprises in Columbu. Metro View all.
Some people may not like what Columbus Underground is, but at we once in while, we try to have a purpose. We have hope for a better city, and offer open discussion in an effort to get there. Prices are not lower, the selection is not better, the products are not different. We gave away 25 years of property tax income to create a store that is a lateral move. The people of Columbus are not in a better place. TIFs were invented to bring possibility where no possibility exists.
Staged in the fashion capital of Columbus, this yearly event for the Halloween season bridges runway style with the culture of the Short North Arts District. Be a part of the HighBall street spectacle and model yourself on High Str. HighBall is the nation's fiercest costume party. CEOs for Cities is one of the largest and most diverse cross-sector networks of city leaders in the nation, including mayors, business presidents, foundational leaders,….