A Numark DM2002X Pro Master DJ mixer. A DJ mixer is a type of audio mixing console used by disc jockeys (DJs). DJs playing music for dancers at a club use the mixer to make smooth transitions between different songs which are played on sound sources that are plugged into the mixer. 
A disc jockey (abbreviated DJ, D.J. or deejay) is a person who plays recorded music for an audience, either a radio audience if the mix is broadcast or the audience in a venue such as a bar or nightclub. In venues such as a club event or rave, this is an audience of dancers. Originally, disc (uncommonly spelled disque in French or commonly disk in American English) referred to phonograph records, not the later compact discs.
There are several types of disc jockey. Radio DJs or radio personalities introduce and play music that is broadcast on AM, FM, digital or internet radio stations. Club DJs select and play music in bars, nightclubs or discotheques, discothèques or at parties or, raves or even in. stadiums In venues such as a club event or rave, this is an audience of dancers. Originally, disc (uncommonly spelled disque in French or commonly disk in American English) referred to phonograph records, not the later compact discs.
Typically, the DJ has little authority over what music is played. A DJ may also provide music at a wedding reception. In this case, the DJ may receive a playlist form the bride and groom. Alternatively, the bride and groom may select a particular genre and leave it up to the DJ to select the songs to be played.
Noun. 1. dj-a person who announces and plays popular recorded music. disc jockey, disk jockey. broadcaster-someone who broadcasts on radio or television. 
• DJ (noun). The noun DJ has 1 sense: 1. a person who announces and plays popular recorded music. Familiarity information: DJ used as a noun is very rare. • DJ (verb). The verb DJ has 1 sense: 1. comment on music to be played. Familiarity information: DJ used as a verb is very rare. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. DJ, or disc jockey, is a person who plays musical recordings for a living. This may take place in a variety of venues. Therefore, the exact role of the DJ may vary depending on the setting or the purpose of the music. A DJ may also provide music at a wedding reception. In this case, the DJ may receive a playlist form the bride and groom. Alternatively, the bride and groom may select a particular genre and leave it up to the DJ to select the songs to be played.
A DJ (Disc Jockey) is a person who selects and plays music, usually at parties, performance, clubs, and concerts for his audience. A DJ uses special equipment such as turntabl … es, CD decks, mixers, laptops, and beat makers. There are mainly 3 types of DJs. 1. A DJ may also provide music at a wedding reception. In this case, the DJ may receive a playlist form the bride and groom. Alternatively, the bride and groom may select a particular genre and leave it up to the DJ to select the songs to be played.
html * disk jockey: a person who announces and plays popular recorded music * disk-jockey: comment on music to be played; He has a job disk-jockeying on the weekend wordnet.princeton.edu/perl/webwn * A disc jockey (often DJ) is an individual who selects and plays pre-recorded music for the enjoyment of others. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It depends on what you are referring to... here are some examples Definitions of DJ on the Web: * (1976) Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, Honolulu, HI: University of Hawaii Press.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: disc jockey (DJ) Person who plays recorded music on radio or television or at a nightclub or other live venue. Disc jockey programs became the economic base of many radio stations in the U.S. after World War II. 