1 These patients may not show a significant increase in cortisol output with ACTH stimulation. 2  A normal 30- or 60-minute rapid ACTH test excludes Addison disease but may not adequately exclude mild impairment of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis in secondary adrenal insufficiency. A high index of suspicion is necessary for diagnosis. The diagnosis of adrenocortical insufficiency rests on the assessment of the functional capacity of the adrenal cortex to synthesize cortisol. This is accomplished primarily by use of the rapid ACTH stimulation test (Cortrosyn, cosyntropin, or Synacthen).
Hydrocortisone is available as tablets under the trade name Hydrocortisone, containing 10mg or 20mg. Prednisolone may be prescribed to individual patients instead of hydrocortisone and works in the same way as hydrocortisone. 
Addison’s disease. An illness caused by the failure of the adrenal glands to secrete enough adrenal hormones. Adrenal glands. Two glands, each located above a kidney, that secrete cortisol and other essential hormones. Aldosterone. A hormone made by the adrenal glands that regulates salt, potassium, and water in the body. This information was developed by the patient care staff of the NIH Clinical Center to help patients with. adrenal insufficiency (AI) understand their condition and how to take care of it. It explains what causes adrenal. insufficiency and how it can be controlled.
Addison's disease is a condition in which your adrenal glands are not working as well as they should. In Addison's disease the adrenal glands do not produce as much of the steroid hormones (such as cortisol) as they normally do. These hormones are vital for your body and if you do not have enough of them, you can become very unwell. If the level of these hormones becomes very low, it can be life-threatening. Treatment is with replacement hormone tablets which you need to take every day. Addison's disease is a condition in which your adrenal glands do not make enough of certain hormones. The condition is named after a Dr Thomas Addison who first described it in 1855. Addison's disease is rare. Just over 8,000 people in the UK have Addison's disease at any one time
1 Underactive or damaged adrenal glands cause Addison disease, also known as primary adrenal insufficiency. 2  They affect cortisol and aldosterone amounts. 3  Decrease in the production of the pituitary hormone ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone) is at the root of secondary adrenal insufficiency. There are two different types of adrenal insufficiency and they depend on whether pituitary gland or adrenal dysfunction underlies hormone deficiencies. 1 
People with Addison’s disease often have an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) , where the thyroid gland does not produce enough hormones. By testing the levels of certain hormones in your blood, your endocrinologist (a specialist in hormone conditions) can determine whether you have hypothyroidism. A low sodium, high potassium or low cortisol level may indicate Addison’s disease. You may need to see a hospital hormone specialist (endocrinologist) for your blood to be tested for the following: 1  a low level of the hormone aldosterone.
It decreases your immune system's response to various diseases to reduce symptoms such as pain, swelling and allergic-type reactions. Hydrocortisone is also used to treat low hydrocortisone levels caused by diseases of the adrenal gland (such as Addison's disease, adrenocortical insufficiency). Corticosteroids are needed in many ways for the body to function well. Uses. Hydrocortisone is a natural substance (corticosteroid hormone) made by the adrenal gland. It is used to treat conditions such as arthritis, blood /hormone/ immune system disorders, skin and eye conditions, breathing problems, cancer, and severe allergies.
Treatment usually involves corticosteroid (steroid) replacement therapy for life. Corticosteroid medication is used to replace the hormones cortisol and aldosterone that your body no longer produces. It's usually taken in tablet form two or three times a day. In most cases, a medication called hydrocortisone is used to replace the cortisol. Treating Addison's disease. If you have Addison’s disease, you'll need to take daily medication to replace the lost hormones. This should help you to live an active life, although many people find they still need to manage their fatigue. In some cases, the underlying causes of Addison’s disease can be treated.