Fish, the member of the Animalia Kingdom is classified into Phylum Chordata and Vertebrata Subphylum. Fishes poses notochord, tubular nerve chord, paired gills, segmentation of the body parts, post anal tail, ventral heart, and an endoskeleton to be the member of the Chordata. Sharks and rays; sturgeon and gars; herring-like fishes; trout and salmon; eels, minnows, suckers, and catfish; flying fish and relatives; cod-like fish; flatfish; seahorses and relatives; mullets, silversides, and barracuda; and mackerels and tunas are the main group of fishes. Agnathan.
The Bony Fish Class, also called Ostheichthyes, is split into smaller groups, called Orders. Below is a list of some Bony Fish Orders: Anguilliformes Order: Includes Freshwater Eels. Salmoniformes Order: Includes Trout and Pike. Cypriniformes Order: Includes Carp, Minnows, and Suckers. 
CLASSIFICATION OF FISHES. (Dr. Girish Chandra). Fishes have been classified in different ways from time to time. Earliest classification was proposed by J. Muller (1844) who proposed 7 subclasses in class Pisces. Muller’s classification.
Fish Classification. The classification of fishes has undergone much change over the last few decades, and further changes are expected, partly because so many groups are poorly known. Two classes are extinct groups of fishes. Class Placodermi. An extinct group of fishes with bony plates covering the head, living from the Silurian to the Upper Devonian (443 to 360 million years ago); some are known from Canada.
What is the scientific classification for a fish? Kingdom: Animalia (Animals) Phylum: Chordata (notochord) Subphylum: Vertebrata (animals with back bones) Then, there are three major classes. 
A fish is any member of a paraphyletic group of organisms that consist of all gill-bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits. Included in this definition are the living hagfish, lampreys, and cartilaginous and bony fish, as well as various extinct related groups. Fish do not represent a monophyletic group, and therefore the evolution of fish is not studied as a single event. Early fish from the fossil record are represented by a group of small, jawless, armored fish known as Ostracoderms. Jawless fish lineages are mostly extinct.
The classification of fish are described below. According to Nature of Skeleton: This types of fishes are of two types according to the nature of their skeleton. 1  Fish With Cartilage: The fish which has soft skeleton and build by cartilage is known as fish with cartilage. 2  Fish With Bone: This types of fish has strong skeleton and well structured with bone.
Because the term fish is defined negatively, and excludes the tetrapods (i.e., the amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals) which descend from within the same ancestry, it is paraphyletic, and is not considered a proper grouping in systematic biology. Fish do not represent a monophyletic group, and therefore the evolution of fish is not studied as a single event. Early fish from the fossil record are represented by a group of small, jawless, armored fish known as Ostracoderms. Jawless fish lineages are mostly extinct.
The Classification of Fishes. There are about 28,100 species of fishes known to science, they are divided into 4 classes, 59 orders, 490 families and 4,300 or so genera. The classification system of fish is not stagnant and it will change when we have more knowledge, perhaps from DNA analyses. For ordinary purpose however the system I have used on these pages will be sufficient for many years. It is based on Fishes of The World (3rd Edition) by Joseph S. Nelson 1994. The term 'Fish' does not fit into any of these categories. This is because it is a general term not a scientific one. We all know that a Trout or a Salmon is a fish, however some of the animals we commonly call fish are not much more closely related to Salmon and Trout than they are to Dogs and Cats.