Hey Hey Hey. Goodbye.. Paul Leka, 68, a composer who co-wrote and produced Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye, died of lung cancer Oct. 12 in a hospice near his home in Sharon, Conn., said his sister, Evelyn Kreta. Paul Leka thought the Na Na song would be the perfect B-side. It was intended to be a throwaway song, the seldom-played B-side of a 45-rpm record produced in a New York recording studio in 1969.
Goodbye, Columbus is a 1959 collection of fiction by the American novelist Philip Roth, comprising the title novella Goodbye, Columbus—which first appeared in The Paris Review —and five short stories. It was his first book and was published by Houghton Mifflin. In addition to the title novella, set in New Jersey, Goodbye, Columbus contains the five short stories The Conversion of the Jews, Defender of the Faith, Epstein, You Can't Tell a Man by the Song He Sings, and Eli, the Fanatic.. The title novella was made into the 1969 film Goodbye, Columbus, starring Ali MacGraw and Richard Benjamin.
Texas authors A.C. Greene, left, a former newspaper editor and television host who wrote 'Personal Country' and 30 other books, and John Graves, whose 'Goodbye to a River' is among his notable works, talk ... more. Photo: HARRY CABLUCK, AP. Photo: Glenn Dromgoole. Goodbye to a River by the late John Graves is considered one of the best book about Texas. Take a look at other notable Texas authors, both past and present
Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye was written by Leka, Gary DeCarlo and Dale Frashuer, all of whom had been members of a band from Bridgeport, Conn., called the Chateaus in the early 1960s. Paul Leka thought the Na Na song would be the perfect B-side. It was intended to be a throwaway song, the seldom-played B-side of a 45-rpm record produced in a New York recording studio in 1969.
Jenkins had written the song when working with the Isham Jones orchestra, and Jones allegedly rejected it as it was too sad. Music critic Alec Wilder described Goodbye as as sad a song I know and Leonard Feather called it among his top ten songs it would be hardest to tire of hearing. The song was used as the closing theme for radio broadcasts by the Benny Goodman orchestra, and was recorded several times by Goodman in the mid 1930s. Upon Goodman's death in 1986, Richard Stoltzman commissioned an arrangement of Goodbye by Bill Jenkins for clarinet and strings.
Goodbye  (sometimes written  Good-Bye ) is a song by American composer and arranger Gordon Jenkins, published in 1935. It became well known as the closing theme song of the Benny Goodman orchestra. The song was used as the closing theme for radio broadcasts by the Benny Goodman orchestra, and was recorded several times by Goodman in the mid 1930s. Upon Goodman's death in 1986, Richard Stoltzman commissioned an arrangement of Goodbye by Bill Jenkins for clarinet and strings.
Graves wrote a number of books about Texas rural life, nature and the environment, but his Goodbye to a River is the one that endures. The late historian A.C. Greene, in a review for the Dallas Times Herald, called it as fine a book as has ever been written about Texas.. Photo: Glenn Dromgoole. Goodbye to a River by the late John Graves is considered one of the best book about Texas. Take a look at other notable Texas authors, both past and present
Jenkins' son, the sportswriter Bruce Jenkins, wrote a biography of his father entitled Goodbye: In Search of Gordon Jenkins. While researching the biography, Jenkins interviewed the singer Martha Tilton, who had performed with the Benny Goodman orchestra. The song was used as the closing theme for radio broadcasts by the Benny Goodman orchestra, and was recorded several times by Goodman in the mid 1930s. Upon Goodman's death in 1986, Richard Stoltzman commissioned an arrangement of Goodbye by Bill Jenkins for clarinet and strings.