Orange has a friendly, informal feeling that makes it a great choice for a family room or relaxed living room. Rust, a dark muted orange, is a quiet color that conjures up misty autumn days, while the paler peach makes a cheerful, warm but understated, impact. 1  Stimulate. Green is nature's favorite color. Perhaps because of this strong association with nature, green is a very soothing color to most people. Because green is easy on the eyes, it has long been a popular color in the work place. Green is a versatile color that can look good anywhere inside or out. 1  Peace. 2  Ecology. 3  Relaxing. 4  Renewal. 5  Harmony. 6  Tranquil
1 Goes Great With: See colors that combine well with your chosen color. 2  More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 3  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 4  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 5  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 5  Send: E-mail your color to others. 6  Print: Print your color
619 Saves | 1 Question. Rust. If you’re looking to add some punch to your exterior but are keen to avoid creating a particular focal point, the handsome appeal of rust could be perfect for you. WHY IT WORKS: It adds soft colour and complements timber features and river pebbles. WHERE TO USE IT: Gardens and courtyards.
Paint Colors by Family. Using a red is warm energetic and high impact. It is a fantastic paint color for kitchens and spaces where you entertain and want to promote conversation and interaction. In dining rooms it can be very dramatic. If you want your red color to be less energetic choose those that are less saturated or have some rust and brown tones like Sherwin-Williams Fireweed or Rustic Red. Because it is bold and can increase energy levels so you may want to avoid using red in children’s rooms.
Strength. Success. Reds are associated with bold, daring and dominant qualities. That’s why they’re the most commonly used colors in national flags, with three out of four nations waving reds at the world. But don’t look too long. Staring at reds strains your eyes, raises your blood pressure and causes your pulse to race.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rust is a red-orange-brown color resembling iron oxide. It is a commonly used color in stage lighting, and appears roughly the same color as photographic safelights when used over a standard tungsten light source. The color is number 777 in the Lee Filters swatch book. The first recorded use of rust as a color name in English was in 1692. Rust is named after the resulting phenomenon of the oxidation of iron. The word 'rust' finds its etymological origins in the Proto-Germanic word rusta, which translates to redness.. The word is closely related to the term  ruddy , which also refers to a reddish coloring in an object.