Background: Slate is a foliated metamorphic rock derived from the metamorphism of shale. It is formed by regional metamorphism from tectonic plates colliding with one another creating immense pressure. Its foliation does not coincide with the layering or foliation of the original shale.
Slate is a metamorphic rock. Slate is actually shale that had low heat and not very much pressure put on it. Slate is mostly formed in mountain areas. It takes thousands of years for slate to change. Slate can be any color but is mostly found in gray or black.
Slate, a metamorphic rock, is formed from the rock shale after undergoing a lot of heat and pressure.
Slate is a fine-grained, foliated metamorphic rock that is created by the alteration of shale or mudstone by low-grade regional metamorphism. It is popular for a wide variety of uses such as roofing, flooring and flagging because of its durability and attractive appearance.
Slate is a fine-grained, foliated metamorphic rock that is created by the alteration of shale or mudstone by low-grade regional metamorphism. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across.
Slate is a foliated metamorphic rock derived from the metamorphism of shale. It is formed by regional metamorphism from tectonic plates colliding with one another creating immense pressure.
New Zealand occurrences-northwest Nelson. Slate is a low grade metamorphic rock generally formed by the metamorphosis of mudstone / shale, or sometimes basalt, under relatively low pressure and temperature conditions.
Rockhound. Slate is formed by the effects of heat and pressure on the rocks shale or mudstone. The source of the heat and pressure is usually from depth of burial or tectonic plate collisions, where shale is put under tremendous directional pressure.
Slate is a low-grade metamorphic rock, with a dull luster and strong cleavage. It is derived from shale by regional metamorphism. (more below). Slate forms when shale, which consists of clay minerals, is put under pressure with temperatures of a few hundred degrees or so.