It takes 20 years in Italy to declare a missing person dead. After ten years from somebody's disappearance, a motion to declare the person legally dead can be filed in a court of law. After that, another ten years must pass before the person can eventually be declared legally dead. A person can be declared legally dead after they are exposed to imminent peril and fail to return—as in a plane crash, as portrayed in the movie Cast Away. In these cases courts generally assume the person was killed, even though the usual waiting time to declare someone dead has not elapsed.
You can declare a person officially dead when a doctor or medical examiner for a mortuary says the person is dead. Just because someone is missing, does not mean that they are declared dead. Indeed, many times, people try to make it look like they are dead to avoid creditors, police enforcement agencies or other people and they try to start new lives in new cities/countries.
Main article: Declared death in absentia. In some cases, a person will be declared dead even without any remains or doctor's declaration. This is under one of two circumstances. First, if a person was known to be in mortal peril when last seen, they can often be declared dead shortly after. In some cases, a legal declaration of death is fraudulent. Several people have faked their own deaths for various reasons. The most common reasons for this are to collect insurance money, to avoid capture by police or to avoid paying debts. People have also been declared legally dead by corrupt governments. In Uttar Pradesh, India, officials have often been bribed to declare a living person legally dead so that others can steal their land or other property. The Uttar Pradesh Association of Dead People was founded to help people in this situation
The committee outlined specific neurological tests to be performed before declaring a person dead. This was known as brain death and became an alternative definition of death. Death might now be declared in two ways — if a person's heart and lungs ceased functioning or if there was no brain activity. In 1970, Kansas became the first state to legally recognize brain death as an acceptable determination of death. When the physician decides to stop CPR and declare a person dead is a matter of discretion, not an established fact. This uncertainty over the moment of death is nothing new and has long concerned scientists and the public. For centuries, physicians sought ways to establish if and when a person was dead.
0 attorneys agreed. Re: declaring someone legally dead. Evidence Code section 667 says A person not heard from in five years is presumed to be dead.. The Probate Code, section 12401 I believe, provides for petitioning a court for a finding of death based upon this presumption. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2009). A person may be legally declared dead (declared death in absentia or legal presumption of death) despite the absence of direct proof of the person's death, such as the finding of remains (e.g., a corpse or skeleton) attributable to that person. A person can be declared legally dead after they are exposed to imminent peril and fail to return—as in a plane crash, as portrayed in the movie Cast Away. In these cases courts generally assume the person was killed, even though the usual waiting time to declare someone dead has not elapsed.
Donald E. Miller Jr. is legally dead, an Ohio judge explained to Donald E. Miller Jr. this week in court. The judge, Allan H. Davis of Hancock County Probate Court, had declared Mr. Miller dead in 1994, several years after he mysteriously disappeared, leaving thousands of dollars of child support unpaid. 
In Scotland, legal aspects of death in absentia are outlined in the Presumption of Death (Scotland) Act, 1977. If a person lived in Scotland on the date they were last known to be alive, authorities can use this act to declare the person legally dead after the standard period of seven years. A person can be declared legally dead after they are exposed to imminent peril and fail to return—as in a plane crash, as portrayed in the movie Cast Away. In these cases courts generally assume the person was killed, even though the usual waiting time to declare someone dead has not elapsed.