One unit is equal to 10 ml of one hundred per cent alcohol. That is about 30 ml of whiskey or 236 ml of beer. The average bottle of beer holds 330 ml. [ 7 ] Normally, it takes the body an hour to break down a single unit of alcohol. If a person drinks 250 ml of wine, it would take three hours for the body to metabolize the alcohol. A 500 ml beer would take about two hours. But a strong 500ml strong beer would take much longer since it contains about three units of alcohol.
Concerning how long does alcohol stay in blood? The higher the amount of alcohol intake goes the longer it is estimated to stay in the blood stream. In some cases it takes from 12 to 24 hours for a body to completely show a negative result in the blood test for alcohol.
Report Abuse. Alcohol is absorbed into the blood stream and can leave the body either through metabolism or through urine, breath and perspiration. About ninety percent of alcohol remain in the blood stream and needs to leave the body through metabolism alone. How long alcohol stays in the blood stream of a person depends on the rate of metabolism. The rate at which alcohol is metabolized is about .015 BAC (Blood Alcohol Concentration) in an hour. Accordingly, a person with blood alcohol concentration of .15 becomes totally free of alcohol content in his bloodstream after about ten hours. There is no way to speed up alcohol metabolism. 
One serving of alcohol is fully absorbed into the blood stream within 30 minutes to 2 hours after intake. This is because the body can metabolize about 0.25 ounces of alcohol per hour. However, the effects of alcohol vary by individual and by how much alcohol they drink in one session. 
Adding up your units. If you drink a large (250ml) glass of wine, your body takes about three hours to break down the alcohol. If you drink one pint of beer, your body takes about two hours to break it down. One pint of strong lager is equivalent to three units, so this will take longer. However, this time can vary depending on the factors mentioned above. If you have a few drinks during a night out, it can take many hours for the alcohol to leave your body. The alcohol could still be in your blood the next day. This means that if you drive the day after an evening of drinking, you could be over the legal alcohol limit.
Do not drink: Blood alcohol levels will not be abnormal at 24 hours after a drink. However there are other tests that can detect alcohol intake up to 80 hours earlier. It would depend on what test is being done. Some tests are positive for two weeks after the drink in a chronic drinker. See this site for info. http://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/arh28-1/30-37.pdf ...Read more. Depends on the: Test concerned. Blood alcohol will dissipate in about 24 hours or less. Other changes in blood components, e.g. Carbohydrate deficient transferrin may be abnormal for up to two weeks, particularly after drinking for a few days.
Best Answer: They shouldn't. Let me explain. Alcohol in the blood is detected for a matter of hours and completely depends on how much alcohol you consume over a specific period of time. Heavy consumption of alcohol over a few hour time span can be detected in the blood for around 10-12 hours. IE: For example, you drink 6 beers over 2 hours -- You would likely test positive for alcohol for about 6 hours. The rule of thumb is 1 hour per Beer (or 1 shot of 80 proof liquor). The breathalyzer used by police is very close to what a blood test would detect and for the same
After 4 hours – your BAC would be 0.02. After 5 hours – your BAC would be 0.005. Alcohol would be eliminated from the body at about 5 hours and 20 minutes (the body metabolizes alcohol at the rate of about 0.005 per twenty minutes, as 0.005 x 3 = 0.015). So it is easy to tell when your body will be free of alcohol. 
Obviously lesser consumption will result in a lower Blood Alcohol Level and the body will eliminate the alcohol quicker .. IE: For example, you drink 6 beers over 2 hours -- You would likely test positive for alcohol for about 6 hours. The rule of thumb is 1 hour per Beer (or 1 shot of 80 proof liquor). The breathalyzer used by police is very close to what a blood test would detect and for the same period of time.