A programming language is a formal constructed language designed to communicate instructions to a machine, particularly a computer. Programming languages can be used to create programs to control the behavior of a machine or to express algorithms. The first programming languages designed to communicate instructions to a computer were written in the 1950s. An early high-level programming language to be designed for a computer was Plankalkuel, plankalkül developed for The German z3 By Konrad zuse between 1943 and. 1945, however it was not implemented until 1998 and. 2000
The aim of this list of programming languages is to include all notable programming languages in existence, both those in current use and historical ones, in alphabetical order, except for dialects of BASIC and esoteric programming languages. 
A vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer to perform specific tasks. The term programming language usually refers to high-level languages, such as BASIC, C, C++ , COBOL, FORTRAN, Ada, and Pascal. Each language has a unique set of keywords (words that it understands) and a special syntax for organizing program instructions. Lying above high-level languages are languages called fourth-generation languages (usually abbreviated 4GL). 4GLs are far removed from machine languages and represent the class of computer languages closest to human languages.
Best Answer: The term computer language includes a wide variety of languages used to communicate with computers. It is broader than the more commonly-used term programming language. Programming languages are a subset of computer languages. For example, HTML is a markup language and a computer language, but it is not traditionally considered a programming language. Machine code is a computer language. It can technically be used for programming, and has been (e.g. the original bootstrapper for Altair BASIC), though most would not consider it a programming language. Computer languages can be divided into two groups: high-level languages and low-level languages. computer language is language in which computer understand. types of computer: high level and low level high level language: are designed to be easier to use.is more abstract and more portable than low level language low level language: they excuted by the computer.
This type of computer language is called a 1GL (First Generation Language). Note: There isn't a language called 1GL, it is just an abbreviation for First Generation Language. 1GL is the same thing as the machine's native language (machine language) where numbers represent the commands and data for the program. 2.1 Short History of Programming. Computers are electronic, and they are digital. To a computer everything is in terms of no voltage potential along a wire, or some voltage available. No voltage means a zero to the computer, and some voltage means a one.
Programming Language. A programming language is a special language programmers use to develop applications, scripts, or other set of instructions for computers to execute. The following is an index of the different programming and scripting languages currently listed on our site. You are here: Dictionary P-Definitions. A programming language is a special language programmers use to develop applications, scripts, or other set of instructions for computers to execute.
A programming language is a notation for writing programs, which are specifications of a computation or algorithm. Some, but not all, authors restrict the term programming language to those languages that can express all possible algorithms. The first programming languages designed to communicate instructions to a computer were written in the 1950s. An early high-level programming language to be designed for a computer was Plankalkuel, plankalkül developed for The German z3 By Konrad zuse between 1943 and. 1945, however it was not implemented until 1998 and. 2000
A programming language, it used a compiler to automatically convert the language into machine code. The first code and compiler was developed in 1952 for the Mark 1 computer at the University of Manchester and is considered to be the first compiled high-level programming language. The first programming languages designed to communicate instructions to a computer were written in the 1950s. An early high-level programming language to be designed for a computer was Plankalkuel, plankalkül developed for The German z3 By Konrad zuse between 1943 and. 1945, however it was not implemented until 1998 and. 2000