Decades later, IPA is one of the most popular styles of craft beer in America, according to the most recent Symphony IRI Group Data. Amid a craft beer boom, brewers are hard at work to satisfy the growing thirst for this style of beer. August 1 is National IPA Day, which was started in 2011 by the Colorado-based Brewers Association to unite craft beer enthusiasts over social media and praise this hoppy brew.
India pale ale (IPA) is a hoppy beer style within the broader category of pale ale. The first known use of the term India pale ale is an advertisement in the Sydney Gazette and New South Wales Advertiser in 1829.
In the case of IPA, hops are the dominant force of nature, single or multiple varieties, wet, dry and/or whole cone hopped. The possibilities are endless and the balance of a great tasting beer with a bitter flare is what makes brewing IPA more art than science. The flavor of IPA beer highlights the complex and varied results that can be achieved through hops and other beer ingredient staples. The pronounced and unique flavor profile of IPA allows for a better understanding of brewing beer in general as hops and malts are often identified individually.
Among the first brewers known to export beer to India was the Bow Brewery, on the Middlesex-Essex border. Bow Brewery beers became popular among East India Company traders in the late 18th century because of the brewery's location and Hodgson's liberal credit line of 18 months. The first known use of the term India pale ale is an advertisement in the Sydney Gazette and New South Wales Advertiser in 1829.
“IPA” is an initialism for India Pale Ale, a hoppy style of beer within the pale ale category. Photo Credit: Flickr/ edwin. This style did not originate in India but was first brewed in England in the nineteenth century. Depending on the brand and brewer, IPAs are made with varying amounts of hops, malt, and alcohol content. Iconic brads of IPAs include Samuel Adams IPA, Harpoon IPA, Brooklyn East India Pale Ale, Redhook IPA, and Goose Island IPA.
SAVOR THE FLAVOR | The IPA style of beer has a whole lot going for it. First and foremost is taste, which some could argue is an acquired one. The flavor of IPA beer highlights the complex and varied results that can be achieved through hops and other beer ingredient staples. The pronounced and unique flavor profile of IPA allows for a better understanding of brewing beer in general as hops and malts are often identified individually.
American-style India pale ale is also now brewed in Belgium with Viven IPA from De Proefbrouwerij and Houblon Chouffe becoming available in the 2000s. It is also available in Argentina from Cerveceria Cervecería. antares The first known use of the term India pale ale is an advertisement in the Sydney Gazette and New South Wales Advertiser in 1829.
India Pale Ale, referred to as IPA, has a colorful history that started in India in the early 18th century. Learn about how IPA reached the shores of England, and what it tastes like, in this video from About.com. Show transcript Hide transcript. IPA has plenty of pale ale and a small amount of crystal malt which gives this style of beer enough sweetness to stand up to the bitter tasting hops.
India Pale Ale. It is an ale that was originally made in England for the crews of the merchant ships sailing to India. They needed something that would keep for months on the sea so they invented IPA. It was a quite strong very bitter beer. Both the higher alcohol and the higher degree of hopping helped to preserve the beer.