The Delta flight is cheaper. But check a bag at a cost of $25 for the first checked bag each way on Delta, and your total fare climbs to $256 -- more than the cost of the Southwest flight, which includes free first and second checked bags. You could pay anywhere from $26 to $100 for a carry-on bag aboard Spirit Airlines if it doesn't fit under the seat in front of you, and the carrier's checked bag fees cover a similar range. Take the Train. While airlines are charging left and right for bags of any shape and size, train travel is a different story.
With checked baggage fees ranging anywhere from $15 to $50 and more, air travelers have more to worry about than just the price of airline tickets. If you're experiencing baggage-related sticker shock, don't despair. There are plenty of ways to avoid paying for bags on airlines. With a little savvy travel planning, you can get your bags to your destination without shelling out any extra money. Step 1. Shop around for airlines that don't charge a fee for checked bags.
And there's no evidence that airlines will cut baggage fees as their business recovers. Delta on Tuesday just boosted its fees for domestic travel to $23 for the first checked bag and $32 for the second one, up from $15 and $25, respectively. American and United charge $20 for the first bag, $30 for the second (although United offers a $5 per bag discount for online payment). Of the major airlines, only Southwest charges no fee for the first or second item of checked luggage.
Delta currently does not charge passengers for checking a first bag on domestic flights. It has said it is studying a decision by several other major carriers to impose that fee. Delta customers checking bags on international flights can check a first and second bag at no charge. Fees are for each extra bag, each way. The fee for checking a third bag on a domestic flight will increase from $80 to $125, while the fee for checking a bag that is between 51 and 70 pounds on a domestic flight will rise from $80 to $90. Fee changes include an increase from $25 to $50 to check a second bag for domestic travel. Fees for specialty items that require special handling, such as surfboards or ski equipment, will increase on domestic and international flights, Delta said.
1 Up to 10 bags may be checked per passenger on flights operated by Delta or Delta Shuttle® and up to four total checked bags on Delta Connection® carrier flights. 2  We may limit the amount of excess baggage when such excess prevents us from transporting up to two bags per passenger. No excess baggage beyond three checked pieces per passenger allowed. Checked baggage weighing 51–70 lbs. is subject to overweight baggage charges. No excess baggage pieces or baggage over 70 lbs. or 62 linear inches will be accepted to/from the following destinations:
DELTA. Delta’s checked baggage fees are similar to those of American. Generally speaking, regular travelers must pay $25 for the first bag and $35-40 for the second bag when traveling on Delta-operated flights (excluding long-haul international routes). 
For example, if an extra piece of baggage exceeds the weight and size limits, it will be subject to three fees: one for the extra bag, one for exceeding the weight limit and one for going over the size restriction. Fees are charged for each additional bag, each way. No excess baggage beyond three checked pieces per passenger allowed. Checked baggage weighing 51–70 lbs. is subject to overweight baggage charges. No excess baggage pieces or baggage over 70 lbs. or 62 linear inches will be accepted to/from the following destinations:
Spirit, Frontier and Allegiant now charge for carry-ons, and a single checked bag costs $50 per roundtrip flight on most major airlines. Fortunately, there are ways to avoid the industry's barrage of baggage fees -- tricks that the airlines probably don't want you to know about. You could pay anywhere from $26 to $100 for a carry-on bag aboard Spirit Airlines if it doesn't fit under the seat in front of you, and the carrier's checked bag fees cover a similar range. Take the Train. While airlines are charging left and right for bags of any shape and size, train travel is a different story.