Kelp is a special type of underwater plant, called algae. There are three kinds of algae: red, green and brown. Giant kelp is a brown algae. Giant kelp is the tallest of all the underwater plants. Giant kelp does not grow from seeds. Giant kelp grows from tiny cells, called spores. (Ferns are land plants that also grow from spores and not seeds.) Each giant kelp plant can release 70 trillion spores every year! These spores grow tiny plants that you can only see with a microscope. These tiny plants release male and female cells, called gametes.
The Phaeophyceae or brown algae (singular: alga), is a large group of mostly marine multicellular algae, including many seaweeds of colder Northern Hemisphere waters. They play an important role in marine environments, both as food and for the habitats they form. Another example is Sargassum, which creates unique habitats in the tropical waters of the Sargasso Sea. Many brown algae, such as members of the order Fucales, commonly grow along rocky seashores. Some members of the class, such as kelp, are used as food for humans.
Some seaweeds are microscopic, such as the phytoplankton that live suspended in the water column and provide the base for most marine food chains. Some are enormous, like the giant kelp that grow in abundant “forests” and tower like underwater redwoods from their roots at the bottom of the sea. Seaweed is the common name for countless species of marine plants and algae that grow in the ocean as well as in rivers, lakes, and other water bodies. Kelp forest in the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary and National Park
Kelp is a seaweed, known as brown algae, usually found under the water and on rocky shores. Kelp are classified as ‘Laminariales’. Kelp favors cool water. It forms stunning underwater kelp seaweed forests in shallow nutrient-rich oceans. 
Kelps are large seaweeds (algae) belonging to the brown algae (Phaeophyceae) in the order Laminariales. There are about 30 different genera. Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. The organisms require nutrient-rich water with temperatures between 6 and 14 °C (43 and 57 °F)
The rockweeds and leathery kelps are often the most conspicuous algae in their habitats. Kelps can range in size from the two-foot-tall sea palm Postelsia to the giant kelp Macrocystis pyrifera, which grows to over 45 m (150 ft) long and is the largest of all the algae. In form, the brown algae range from small crusts or cushions to leafy free-floating mats formed by species of Sargassum. Another example is Sargassum, which creates unique habitats in the tropical waters of the Sargasso Sea. Many brown algae, such as members of the order Fucales, commonly grow along rocky seashores. Some members of the class, such as kelp, are used as food for humans.
Save. Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. Seaweed is a large variety of algae that grows in both fresh and salt water. Some seaweeds are edible and can be used in plant fertilizer or medicines. It is possible to grow your own seaweed at home in a large aquarium using salt water you make on the stove. Leave the aquarium in a sunny spot so the seaweed will grow properly.
Kelp are large brown algae that live in cool, relatively shallow waters close to the shore. They grow in dense groupings much like a forest on land. These underwater towers of kelp provide food and shelter for thousands of fish, invertebrates, and marine mammal species. Kelp forests provide food and shelter for thousands of species. In ideal conditions, kelp can grow up to. per day, and in stark contrast to the colorful and slow-growing corals, the giant kelp canopies tower above the ocean floor. Like trees in a forest, these giant algae provide food and shelter for many organisms.