Your doctor may order tests, such as blood tests, to rule out other conditions that may be causing your symptoms. Imaging tests — such as MRI, ultrasound of the brain, SPECT and PET scans — may also be used to help rule out other disorders. Imaging tests aren't particularly helpful for diagnosing Parkinson's disease. In addition to your examination, your doctor may give you carbidopa-levodopa, a Parkinson's disease medication. You must be given a sufficient dose to show the benefit, as low doses for a day or two aren't reliable. Significant improvement with this medication will often confirm your diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. Sometimes it takes time to diagnose Parkinson's disease. Doctors may recommend regular follow-up appointments with neurologists trained in movement disorders to evaluate your condition and symptoms over time and diagnose Parkinson's disease.
The motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease result from the death of dopamine-generating cells in the substantia nigra, a region of the midbrain. The causes of this cell death are poorly understood. Parkinson's disease is more common in older people, with most cases occurring after the age of 50; when it is seen in young adults, it is called young onset PD (YOPD). The main motor symptoms are collectively called parkinsonism, or a parkinsonian syndrome. The disease can be either primary or secondary.
This test is used to look for signs of disease like Parkinson's in the body. MRI. MRI, or magnetic resonance imaging, is a test that produces very clear pictures, or images, of the human body without the use of X-rays. Instead, MRI uses a large magnet, radio waves, and a computer to produce these images. 
Parkinson's disease is the result of the loss of the brain chemical dopamine. When nerve cells, called neurons, in an area of the brain that controls movement become impaired and/or die, the amount of dopamine they normally produce decreases. This loss of dopamine causes the movement problems seen in people with PD. Explanation: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder that is degenerative and chronic, and symptoms continue and generally worsen over time. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) estimates about 50,000 people are diagnosed with PD each year in the U.S. The cause of PD is unknown.
Tests. There are no lab tests that can diagnose Parkinson's. But if your doctor isn't sure you have Parkinson's, he or she may do certain tests to see if you have another condition with similar symptoms. For instance, blood tests may be done to check for abnormal thyroid hormone levels or liver damage. Eventually, the shaking (tremor) worsens and spreads, muscles become stiffer, movements slow down, and balance and coordination... In some cases, your doctor will have you try a medicine for Parkinson's disease. If that medicine helps your symptoms, it may help the doctor find out if you have the disease.
Diagnosing Parkinson's disease. No tests can conclusively show that you have Parkinson's disease. Your doctor will base a diagnosis on your symptoms, medical history and the results of some simple exercises. A diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease is likely if you have at least two of the three following symptoms: 1  uncontrollable shaking in a part of your body (tremor) that usually only occurs at rest. 2  slowness of movement (bradykinesia).
Parkinson's disease (PD, also known as idiopathic or primary parkinsonism, hypokinetic rigid syndrome (HRS), or paralysis agitans) is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system mainly affecting the motor system. Parkinson's disease is more common in older people, with most cases occurring after the age of 50; when it is seen in young adults, it is called young onset PD (YOPD). The main motor symptoms are collectively called parkinsonism, or a parkinsonian syndrome. The disease can be either primary or secondary.