Symptoms. Kidney cancer rarely causes signs or symptoms in its early stages. In the later stages, kidney cancer signs and symptoms may include: 1  Blood in your urine, which may appear pink, red or cola colored. 2  Back pain just below the ribs that doesn't go away. 3  Weight loss. 4  Fatigue.
Kidney cancer might be found because of signs or symptoms a person is having, or it might be found because of lab tests or imaging tests a person is getting for another reason. If cancer is suspected, tests will be needed to confirm the diagnosis. A physical exam can provide information about signs of kidney cancer and other health problems. For example, the doctor may be able to feel an abnormal mass when he or she examines your abdomen. If symptoms or the results of the physical exam suggest you might have kidney cancer, more tests will probably be done.
1 Symptoms of kidney cancer include blood in the urine, pain in the side or flank that is constant, a lump or mass in the abdomen or side, fever, weight loss, and fatigue. 1 Side effects of kidney cancer treatment related to the methods used and may include nausea and vomiting, weakness, weight loss, infection, flu-like symptoms, diarrhea, skin rash and hair loss.
A physical exam allows your doctor to look for any signs of kidney cancer. During a physical exam, your doctor may feel your abdomen, back and side to see if there is a lump in the kidney area. Find out more about physical exam. Diagnosing kidney cancer usually begins with a visit to your family doctor. Your doctor will ask you about any symptoms you have and may do a physical exam. Based on this information, your doctor will refer you to a specialist or order tests to check for kidney cancer or other health problems.
According to the Kidney Cancer Association, hematuria is the most common sign of kidney cancer. If you have blood in your urine, you may see pink, brownish, or even a red discoloration. Often even a small amount of blood can cause a color change. 
In many cases, people may have no early symptoms of kidney cancer. As the tumor grows larger, symptoms may appear. You may have one or more of these kidney cancer symptoms 1  : Blood in your urine. 2  A lump in your side or abdomen. 3  A loss of appetite. 4  A pain in your side that doesn't go away. 5  Weight loss that occurs for no known reason. 6  Fever that lasts for weeks and isn't caused by a cold or other infection. 7  Extreme fatigue. 8  Anemia
Kidney cancer isn’t as common as breast or lung cancer. For most people, the chance of getting kidney cancer in their lifetime is less than two percent, according to the American Cancer Society. Your risk increases if you smoke, are obese, or have been exposed to chemicals such as asbestos and benzene. Blood in the urine is the main symptom of kidney cancer, but there are other signs too. Other symptoms include: 1  pain in the side or lower back. 2  symptoms of an infection, such as fever, fatigue, and an overall sick feeling. 3  losing weight without trying. 4  swollen ankles.