1 Gisele: Portrayed by Camille De Pazzis. 2  She is a follower of Lily Gray who, along with Luke and Mark, are responsible for the subway murders a year after Carroll's supposed death. 3  She is Luke's girlfriend and is killed by Ryan after lying about killing Max. 1 David Hicks portrayed by Arian Moayed: one of Carroll's followers who is shot in the leg and tortured by Ryan Hardy after helping Carroll escape. 2  He commits suicide in an Interrogation Cell with a suicide pill concealed under the skin of his hand.
Matthew Broderick (born March 21, 1962) is an American film and stage actor. His roles include the title character in Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986), the adult voice of Simba in The Lion King trilogy (1994-2004), and Leo Bloom in the Hollywood and Broadway productions of The Producers. Broderick in Sweden during his promotion of Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Broderick's first major acting role came in an HB Studio workshop production of playwright Horton Foote 's On Valentine's Day, playing opposite his father, who was a friend of Foote's.
I’m Ian Roderick Gray, welcome to my website! I am a multi-award winning Writer, Director and producer and my diverse body of work includes commercials, music videos, promos and fashion films. My short films have played in several festivals throughout the world and my work has been broadcast globally across networks such as BBC, MTV, Sky, Channel 4 and ITV.
The Following is an American television drama series, which premiered on Fox on January 21, 2013 about an FBI agent trying to catch a serial killer and his murderous cult. The series was created by Kevin Williamson and is jointly produced by Outerbanks Entertainment and Warner Bros. Television. 1 David Hicks portrayed by Arian Moayed: one of Carroll's followers who is shot in the leg and tortured by Ryan Hardy after helping Carroll escape. 2  He commits suicide in an Interrogation Cell with a suicide pill concealed under the skin of his hand.
Broderick then got the role as the charming, clever slacker in the 1986 movie Ferris Bueller's Day Off. At age 23, Broderick played a high-school student who, with his girlfriend and best friend, plays hooky and explores Chicago. The film remains a 1980s comedy favorite today and is one of Broderick's best-known roles (particularly with teenage audiences). Broderick in Sweden during his promotion of Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Broderick's first major acting role came in an HB Studio workshop production of playwright Horton Foote 's On Valentine's Day, playing opposite his father, who was a friend of Foote's.
The retail specialty markets include folding carton and corrugated materials for unique and eye-catching shelf presentations as well as counter top and floor displays. Check out samples on my last employers website at pi-pkg.com. 
From the entry in the Bi-centennial History and from the entry in the Sederunt Book it is possible that the Keith Lodge was founded on the 13th APRIL 1739 and named after the Earl Marshall (Earl Marischal) - George Keith. In the List of Gentlemen who have filled the office of Master of the Keith Lodge of Peterhead, printed in the Byelaws of 1808, the Master in 1754 is William Reid.
The series protagonist, Ryan Hardy, is portrayed by Kevin Bacon. Hardy initially works alongside Mike Weston (Shawn Ashmore), Debra Parker (Annie Parisse), and eventually his niece Max Hardy (Jessica Stroup) to put an end to antagonist Joe Carroll (James Purefoy) and his cult of killers. 1 David Hicks portrayed by Arian Moayed: one of Carroll's followers who is shot in the leg and tortured by Ryan Hardy after helping Carroll escape. 2  He commits suicide in an Interrogation Cell with a suicide pill concealed under the skin of his hand.
1 Agent Gina Mendez: Portrayed by Valerie Cruz. 2  She is put in charge of the FBI investigation that begins after the subway murders on the new/remaining cult members. 3  She was in a past relationship with Jana Murphy, one of Joe's followers who used her relationship to help Joe. 1 David Hicks portrayed by Arian Moayed: one of Carroll's followers who is shot in the leg and tortured by Ryan Hardy after helping Carroll escape. 2  He commits suicide in an Interrogation Cell with a suicide pill concealed under the skin of his hand.