Paneer is a type of soft, crumbly cheese native to India, although it is used in some parts of the Middle East as well. It is one of the most common cheeses used in Indian cuisine, and it has a simple, fresh, versatile flavor which makes it highly useful in an assortment of recipes. Ad. One of the most famous dishes with paneer is palak paneer, a curry made with spinach and fried paneer. The cheese is often used in curries since it absorbs flavors very readily. When sliced into cubes and deep fried, the cheese tends to hold its shape very well.
Whole milk is the key ingredient in fresh paneer cheese. Palak paneer, which is made with spinach, is a popular Indian curry. Creamy yogurt and fresh herbs are good additions to a paneer curry. View slideshow of images above. Ad. One of the most famous dishes with paneer is palak paneer, a curry made with spinach and fried paneer. The cheese is often used in curries since it absorbs flavors very readily. When sliced into cubes and deep fried, the cheese tends to hold its shape very well.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Paneer cheese is a type of Indian soft cheese which is made using an acid setting technique. Because paneer cheese is made with the use of acid, rather than rennet, it is safe for vegetarians to consume, and in fact paneer is a cornerstone of Indian vegetarian cuisine. To make paneer cheese, one gallon (four liters) of milk is mixed with around a tablespoon of acid like vinegar, lime or lemon juice, which will stimulate a reaction that causes the milk to curdle.
Paneer tikka is an Indian dish made from chunks of paneer marinated in spices and grilled in a tandoor. It is a vegetarian alternative to chicken tikka and other meat dishes. It is a popular dish that is widely available in India and countries with an Indian diaspora. Chunks of paneer, a type of fresh cheese, are marinated in spices and are then arranged on a stick with capsicums, onions and tomatoes. These sticks are grilled in a tandoor and the dish is thereafter served hot, seasoned with lemon juice and chaat masala.
The temperature of the milk used in paneer cheese is not as crucial as that of cheeses made with rennet; most people bring the milk to a simmer, not quite allowing it to boil, before adding the acid and stirring slowly. To make paneer cheese, one gallon (four liters) of milk is mixed with around a tablespoon of acid like vinegar, lime or lemon juice, which will stimulate a reaction that causes the milk to curdle.
Paneer (. [pəniːr]) is a fresh cheese common in Indian cuisine. It is an unaged, acid-set, non-melting farmer cheese or curd cheese made by curdling heated milk with lemon juice, vinegar, or any other food acids. Its crumbly and moist form is called chhena in eastern India and in Bangladesh
Mentioned in the Vedas, dating as far back as 6000 BC of India Subcontinent, Paneer is a fresh cheese frequently used in South Asian Cuisine similar to queso blanco. Chhena or Chhana is an East Indian variant of Paneer that is eaten in Bangla, Orissa region of India and also in the neighboring country of Bangladesh. 
Paneer is a fresh, unsalted white cheese. It requires no ageing or culturing, and is very easy to make at home. It is very versatile, and an all-time favourite ingredient from my time growing up in India. How to make paneer at home. It’s important that whole milk is used for making paneer, as any other milk will not have enough fat to actually separate into the curds (which make up the cheese) and whey. To make the paneer from Jamie’s saag paneer recipe, pour milk into a pan and bring it to a boil. Reduce the heat and slowly add the lemon juice to it, stirring the whole time. It should start to curdle straight away