(UNHCR) 2004 The Global Compact's Next Stage of Development (November 9, 2004) An official UN statement about the future of the Global Compact shows that the UN is increasingly giving in to corporate demands. Most significantly, Kofi Annan proposed a Global Compact between corporations and the UN. Hundreds of companies have signed on, but many NGOs say the UN is compromising its integrity and providing a public relations cover for corporate malefactors.
Transforming business, changing the world. The UN Global Compact works with business to transform our world, aiming to create a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to all people, communities and markets. Lise Kingo shares her latest thoughts and perspectives on the UN Global Compact and corporate sustainability today.
Caring for Climate. Launched by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in 2007, “Caring for Climate” is the UN Global Compact, the UN Environment Programme and the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change ‘s initiative aimed at advancing the role of business in addressing climate change. Take Climate Action. The world has an historic opportunity to reach a global agreement on climate change in 2015 and engagement by the private sector is vital. The UN invites all companies to demonstrate leadership by making a commitment to climate action.
The Global Compact has been criticized by several senior UN officials and advisers. In December 2008, Maude Barlow, senior adviser on water issues to the President of the United Nations General Assembly, called the Global Compact bluewashing. In Bulgaria UN Global Compact was founded in January 2003, under the auspices of President Georgi Parvanov. The voluntary initiative unites 120 Bulgarian companies, non-governmental organizations and academia in a unique for Bulgaria network.
On June 24, 2004, during the first Global Compact Leaders Summit, Kofi Annan announced the addition of the tenth principle Against corruption in accordance with the United Nations Convention against Corruption adopted in 2003. In Bulgaria UN Global Compact was founded in January 2003, under the auspices of President Georgi Parvanov. The voluntary initiative unites 120 Bulgarian companies, non-governmental organizations and academia in a unique for Bulgaria network.
The Global Compact Network (GCN) India was formed by organizations from India who participate in the UN Global Compact. It was registered on 24 November 2003, with Registrar of Societies, NCT, Delhi, as a non-profit body. In Bulgaria UN Global Compact was founded in January 2003, under the auspices of President Georgi Parvanov. The voluntary initiative unites 120 Bulgarian companies, non-governmental organizations and academia in a unique for Bulgaria network.
UN Global Compact Site. A UN web site maintained by the United Nations Global Compact Network-an effort to promote Annan's Global Compact proposed at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 1999. Includes press briefings, the ten principles of the compact, and the partners of the initiative. Most significantly, Kofi Annan proposed a Global Compact between corporations and the UN. Hundreds of companies have signed on, but many NGOs say the UN is compromising its integrity and providing a public relations cover for corporate malefactors.
The separation between business and the United Nations has become less significant. One expression of this evolution is the United Nations Global Compact. Kofi Annan, former Secretary General launched this initiative at the 1999 World Economic Forum in Davos. The official start was in summer 2000. This paper will first contextualize this new rapprochement between business and the UN, secondly the main outlines of the Global Compact will be presented and finally an overview of arguments in favour as well as arguments of opponents should provide the reader with more insights about this initiative.
The first Global Compact Leaders Summit, chaired by the then Secretary-General Kofi Annan, was held in UN Headquarters in New York on June 24, 2004, to bring intensified international focus and increased momentum to the UN Global Compact. In Bulgaria UN Global Compact was founded in January 2003, under the auspices of President Georgi Parvanov. The voluntary initiative unites 120 Bulgarian companies, non-governmental organizations and academia in a unique for Bulgaria network.