In 24 states, laws require persons who are aware that they have HIV to disclose their status to sexual partners and 14 states require disclosure to needle-sharing partners. Twenty-five states criminalize one or more behaviors that pose a low or negligible risk for HIV transmission. 
All HCWs must follow universal precautions—no further regulations exist. These summaries highlight key aspects of state laws governing the rights of minors to consent to testing and/or tretment for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV. Any such summary cannot capture the details and nuances of individuals state laws. Every state in the country allows minors to consent to STI testing and care without parental approval, although a number of these set an age threshold for the right to consent without parental involvement.
In all states, regardless of whether mandatory reporting is required, there is an obligation on the part of the provider to counsel the HIV-positive patient to inform sexual and needle-sharing partners of his or her status. 3 One of the most heavily regulated areas of physician-patient confidentiality is the disclosure of a patient's HIV status to patient contacts who may be at risk for contracting HIV, and most states have statutes specifically addressing this issue. These statutes fall into three basic types:
For the state law and cases interpreting it, go to your state’s section in CHLP’s collection of HIV-related criminal laws in all 50 states and territories, in Ending and Defending Against HIV Criminalization: State and Federal Laws and Prosecutions. Every state in the country allows minors to consent to STI testing and care without parental approval, although a number of these set an age threshold for the right to consent without parental involvement.
Sixty percent had disclosed their HIV status to all sexual partners. Of the 40% who had not disclosed, half had not disclosed to their one and only partner. Among patients who did not disclose, 57% used condoms less than all the time. OBJECTIVE: To determine factors associated with disclosure of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive status to sexual partners. METHODS: We interviewed 203 consecutive patients presenting for primary care for HIV at 2 urban hospitals.
Aside from the states mentioned above, others with HIV disclosure laws include Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, Nevada, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia, and Washington state. Related Resources: Strict laws, such as Ohio's, require people to disclose their HIV status to sexual partners prior to any type of sexual contact. Under strict HIV disclosure laws, sexual contact includes intercourse, oral sex, and penetration by any object.
Click on a state for more details about their HIV Testing and Laboratory Reporting Laws. To learn more about state HIV-specific criminal laws, click here. 
Many states and some cities have. laws—meaning that, if you test positive for HIV, you (or your healthcare provider) may be legally obligated to tell your sex or needle-sharing partner(s). In some states, if you are HIV-positive and don’t tell your partner(s), you can be charged with a crime. Some health departments require healthcare providers to report the name of your sex and needle-sharing partner(s) if they know that information—even if you refuse to report that information yourself. HIV Disclosure Policies and Procedures. If your HIV test is positive, the clinic or other testing site will report the results to your state health department. They do this so that public health officials can monitor what’s happening with the HIV epidemic in your city and state
Healthcare providers treating HIV-positive patients have often been compelled to act despite some degree of uncertainty. One area of uncertainty that poses complex and sometimes conflicting ethical and legal issues involves disclosure of a patient's HIV status to a third party. Most providers are aware that they have a clear ethical obligation to preserve the confidentiality of their patients' medical information. 3 One of the most heavily regulated areas of physician-patient confidentiality is the disclosure of a patient's HIV status to patient contacts who may be at risk for contracting HIV, and most states have statutes specifically addressing this issue. These statutes fall into three basic types: