1 Air masses are relatively large bodies of air that are fairly horizontally uniform in characteristics. 2  They have relatively uniform temperature and moisture content; the region separating two different air masses is called a front.
Oort Cloud comets, like their Kuiper Belt brothers, probably originated in the region of the solar system between Jupiter and Neptune, but were ejected from to the Oort Cloud by close encounters with the gravity of the giant planets.
- has been a precious treasure of the Eastern region for generations. In Lorraine, the classic Quiche recipe only contains heavy cream, eggs and bacon or chopped ham, but no cheese. This mouth-watering, wintry dish is baked for 20 to 30 minutes, until the pastry crust is browning.
The regional cuisine of Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula, known as Yucatecan cuisine, is a unique melange of influences from Europe, Mexico and the Caribbean.
Experiments and the high density of diamonds tell us that they crystallize at very high pressures. In nature this means that diamonds are created by geologic processes at great depth within Earth, generally more than 150 kilometers down, in a region beneath the crust known as the mantle.
Comets come from two major areas of our solar system: the Kuiper (pronounced KY-per) Belt and the Oort (pronounced OR-t) Cloud. Each of these regions contains billions of comets, but they have so much room in these vast rooms of space that they get no closer to each other than we on Earth do to the sun.
Papadzules are said to be a very ancient dish, the forerunner of modern enchiladas, even. However, it isn't clear that this dish was actually made in pre-Hispanic times, at least in the way it is made today.
Burgundy is known as the original cultivation area for pinot noir so these wines are in very high demand. Introductory value wines from this region have tart cherry and earthy flavors with a green stem note to them.
Air masses form in source regions where there is little topography and relatively stagnant winds near the surface. The air mass takes on the properties of the surface of the source region (e.g., dry, hot, moist, etc.).
This mouth-watering, rich Lorraine dish is definitely one of the best known food specialities from France! The Quiche Lorraine is indeed a classic on every French Cafe's, restaurant's and Brasserie's menu today, but the authentic Quiche recipe-without cheese!