A merchant account is a type of bank account that allows businesses to accept payments by payment cards, typically debit or credit cards. A merchant account is established under an agreement between an acceptor and a merchant acquiring bank for the settlement of payment card transactions. In some cases a payment processor, independent sales organization (ISO), or member service provider (MSP) is also a party to the merchant agreement. The statement fee is a monthly fee associated with the monthly statement that is sent to the merchant at the end of each monthly processing cycle. This statement shows how much processing was done by the merchant during the month and what fees were incurred as a result.
The Interchange Differential Fee. On top of the non-qualified rate the processor will also make you pay the difference in cost between a consumer card and your non-qualified card. For example, a Visa consumer card costs 1.42%, while an infinite card will cost 1.61%. This means that you will also have to pay an interchange differential fee of 0.19%, even though you already paid a penalty through the non-qualified rate. This is the piece of the puzzle that makes interchange differential pricing so expensive, as merchants are getting double-dipped on the same transaction. Above is an example of Interchange differential using a Visa Infinite premium credit card. The examples uses a common quote of  1.59% qualified  and  0.30% non-qualified . Unlike our competitors, we proudly offer Cost+ Pricing to all of our merchants.
Then, for the transactions that are mid or non qualified, merchants will be charged again for the difference of the qualified rate (the rate they already paid) and the interchange rate (cost) plus a surcharge. There are two reasons this is called bill back. You are billed one rate and then billed back another. The statement fee is a monthly fee associated with the monthly statement that is sent to the merchant at the end of each monthly processing cycle. This statement shows how much processing was done by the merchant during the month and what fees were incurred as a result.
Interchange plus pricing for credit card acceptance is where a merchant service provider's fee is added to Visa, MasterCard or Discover's actual rate for each transaction. Interchange plus rates are the most transparent form of pricing because the provider's markup is consistent and is always added to actual interchange rates and fees. A common comparison is that of interchange and tiered merchant account rates.
Interchange fee is a term used in the payment card industry to describe a fee paid between banks for the acceptance of card based transactions. These fees are set by the credit card networks, and are the largest component of the various fees that most merchants pay for the privilege of accepting credit cards, representing 70% to 90% of these fees by some estimates, although larger merchants typically pay less as a percentage.
Tiered pricing is a rate structure that the credit card processing companies have invented to apply artificially higher fees to transactions they label as Mid Qualified and Non Qualified. There is no Tiered Pricing Department at Visa or MasterCard. 
1 Learning about Interchange will give you the knowledge you need to negotiate your best merchant rates. 2  Interchange is the largest component of your discount rate pricing. 3  Interchange fees are paid to cardholder-issuing banks and these rates are set by MasterCard and Visa card associations and the Federal Reserve. 1 ALL merchants large and small can get an Interchange rate price structure to lower their costs. 2  We quote your Merchant Rates without monthly minimum fees, batch fees, AVS fees, annual fees, non-qualified surcharge fees, and other hidden fees.
For the Best Merchant Rates Insist on a Detailed Interchange Rate Quote. 1  ALL merchants large and small can get an Interchange rate price structure to lower their costs. 2  We quote your Merchant Rates without monthly minimum fees, batch fees, AVS fees, annual fees, non-qualified surcharge fees, and other hidden fees. 1
The interchange fee is a percentage applied, according to VISA/MasterCard regulations, to the dollar value of each transaction. There are multiple categories of interchange, and VISA and Master-Card each have their own criteria for their own categories. Interchange fees are set by the credit card associations of Visa and MasterCard, and are by far the largest component of the fees that merchants pay, representing 70% to 90% of the total.
1 We quote your Merchant Rates without monthly minimum fees, batch fees, AVS fees, annual fees, non-qualified surcharge fees, and other hidden fees. 2  Plus Interchange is returned to you on cardholder credits further lowering your bottom line costs. 1 ALL merchants large and small can get an Interchange rate price structure to lower their costs. 2 