The amount of pork you buy depends on how many servings you need and whether it is bone-in or boneless. A good rule of thumb is to allow 1/4-1/3 lb (125-160g) per person for boneless cuts and 1/3-1/2 lb (170-250g) for bone-in. For side or back ribs, allow 1/2-1 lb (250-500 g) per serving. 
WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone. Remove the roast from the oven and set on a cutting board. Cover the meat with tin foil and let it rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. The temperature of the roast will continue to rise about another 5 degrees.
Always position the pork roast in the pan so that fat side is on the top. Measure one tablespoon of olive oil in a small dish. Add 1 Tablespoon of dried spices to the oil. You can use rosemary, sage, thyme, or oregano; or a combination of these that equal 1 tablespoon. Remove the roast from the oven and set on a cutting board. Cover the meat with tin foil and let it rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. The temperature of the roast will continue to rise about another 5 degrees.
Ideally, you want the tip of the thermometer to be in the center of the roast. Remove the roast when the meat's internal temperature reaches 160 degrees F. A four-pound roast may take one-and-three-quarters of an hour to two hours to cook. Let the roast set for about 15 minutes after removing it from the oven and before carving. If the pork roast is done, the meat will be whitish, not pink.
Trying to predict when a roast is done based on time is a very poor method. Many factors can change how long a particular roast takes to cook to your preference, including: 1  Size and shape of the roast--generally the thickest dimension primarily affects how long it takes. 2  Initial temperature of the roast. 3  What temperature you cook it at. The time to roast is very sensitive to the thickness of the cut, and the temperature at which the roasting is done. The roasting times can be very long, as the heat transfer is not as effective as with braising, up to 12 hours and even more depending on the item.
I can't really tell if it is done. It has been in my crock pot on high for 5 hours now (it was a 2 pound roast). It looks and tastes done, to me -- my husband said it didn't taste done. But it also doesn't seem as tender as others make pot roasts out to be when they've been cooked in a crock pot. 
Roast pork shoulder. The easiest way to tell if your pork shoulder is perfectly roasted is to use an oven thermometer. The pork will be perfectly cooked when it has an internal temperature of 71C in the thickest part of the cut. Similar to other roasts, the best way to ensure your meat is perfectly cooked is to rely on your meat thermometer. Use the thermometer to check that the internal reading from the thickest part of the roast reads 71C. Allow the roast to rest for at least 15 minutes before carving. 1  Crispy Roast Pork and Apple Stuffing.