Half-mast means the flag is flown two-thirds of the way up the flagpole with at least the height of the flag between the top of the flag and the top of the flagpole. England Flag-History, Facts & information for kids. The flag of England has St. George's Cross on a white field. St. George is the patron saint of England. Though the flag is not official, it is popular with English nationalists and it is a common fixture at sporting events where England participates as a team (Cricket, Soccer etc.). 
The history of Argentina’s flag, which dates back to 1812, is wrapped in a curious mix of revolutionary fighting for independence from Spain and Incan sun worship. The Argentine flag has three horizontal bands; the top and bottom ones are light blue, and the middle is white. 
The colors of the pales (the vertical stripes) are those used in the flag of the United States of America; White signifies purity and innocence, Red, hardiness & valour, and Blue, the color of the Chief (the broad band above the stripes) signifies vigilance, perseverance & justice.. In heraldic devices, such as seals, each element has a specific meaning. Even colors have specific meanings. The colors red, white, and blue did not have meanings for The Stars and Stripes when it was adopted in 1777. However, the colors in the Great Seal did have specific meanings. Charles Thompson, Secretary of the Continental Congress, reporting to Congress on the Seal, stated:
Sentimental writers and orators sometimes ascribe meanings to the colors in the flag. The practice is erroneous, as are statements on this subject attributed to George Washington and other founders of the country. From the book Our Flag published in 1989 by the House of Representatives... In heraldic devices, such as seals, each element has a specific meaning. Even colors have specific meanings. The colors red, white, and blue did not have meanings for The Stars and Stripes when it was adopted in 1777. However, the colors in the Great Seal did have specific meanings. Charles Thompson, Secretary of the Continental Congress, reporting to Congress on the Seal, stated:
• RED FLAG (noun). The noun RED FLAG has 3 senses: 1. a flag that serves as a warning signal. 2. the emblem of socialist revolution. 3. something that irritates or demands immediate action. Familiarity information: RED FLAG used as a noun is uncommon.
A sun-disc flag was adopted as the national flag for merchant ships under Proclamation No. 57 of Meiji 3 (issued on February 27, 1870), and as the national flag used by the Navy under Proclamation No. 651 of Meiji 3 (issued on October 27, 1870). In addition to the flags used by the military, several other flag designs were inspired by the national flag. The former Japan Post flag consisted of the Hinomaru with a red horizontal bar placed in the center of the flag.
The Nisshōki flag is designated as the national flag in the Law Regarding the National Flag and National Anthem, which was promulgated and became effective on August 13, 1999. Although no earlier legislation had specified a national flag, the sun-disc flag had already become the de facto national flag of Japan. In addition to the flags used by the military, several other flag designs were inspired by the national flag. The former Japan Post flag consisted of the Hinomaru with a red horizontal bar placed in the center of the flag.
The national flag of Japan is a white rectangular flag with a large red disc (representing the sun) in the center. This flag is officially called Nisshōki (日章旗, sun-mark flag) in Japanese, but is more commonly known as Hinomaru (日の丸, circle of the sun) . In addition to the flags used by the military, several other flag designs were inspired by the national flag. The former Japan Post flag consisted of the Hinomaru with a red horizontal bar placed in the center of the flag.
flag colors: blue,white,red. description: The national flag of France was adopted 15 February 1794 and it has the proportion 2:3. The french flag is a tricolour with three vertical bands coloured royal blue, white and red. The colours adopted by Valery Giscard d'Estaing were darker. In the Pantone it is used Reflex Blue, white-Safe and Red 032. In the RGB scheme blue is (0,85,164), white (255,255,255) and red (250,60,50)