These seven chakra symbols are vital to our health. Negative feelings hamper the spin of these chakras, resulting in sickness and disease. A chakra is a vital energy center that resides in our bodies, that is not detectable by most modern medical means. This chakra symbol connects us with the energy to take action and is the seat of self-esteem and expressing our personal power. Our relationship to the world around us, and our beliefs about our place within it come from this the third of the seven chakras. Self-honoring starts here.
Chakras are the seven power points of life force in the body. Chakra means wheel of light in Sanskrit. The Chakras are the seven power points in the human body that circulate energy or the life force also known as prana. They are vertically aligned in the center of the body close to the spine. 
Chakras are the major centres of spiritual power in the human body and are circles of energy which balance, store and distribute the energies of life all through our physical body along the subtle body. The subtle body is the non physical body or otherwise known as our soul or spirit, which overlays our physical body. If you could imagine chakras as circles of energy, flowing all the way through our body these circles of energy assist in the running of our body, mind and soul. If a chakra is not performing correctly, this could cause our physical health, mental health and our spiritual selves to suffer.
In some Indian religions, a chakra (Sanskrit cakra, wheel) is thought to be an energy point or node in the subtle body. Chakras are believed to be part of the subtle body, not the physical body, and as such, are the meeting points of the subtle (non-physical) energy channels called nadi. Nadi are believed to be channels in the subtle body through which the life force (prana) (non-physical) or vital energy (non-physical) moves.
Chakra Symbol Meaning. Chakra Meanings-Portal Page. Chakra symbol meaning is like a deep opening into a well of ancient knowledge. The chakra itself is merely a circle. It is the esoteric symbolism attributed to the chakra symbol that offers a wealth of meaning. What's more, we can apply this perennial meaning to all aspects of our lives
Tweet. A journey through the seven chakra colors is essentially a journey through the rainbow. Each of your seven chakras has a corresponding color that follows the colors of the rainbow: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet (or white). This is the most widely accepted color system for your chakras. 
The 6th Ray of Devotion governs this chakra. This chakra symbol connects us with the energy to take action and is the seat of self-esteem and expressing our personal power. Our relationship to the world around us, and our beliefs about our place within it come from this the third of the seven chakras. Self-honoring starts here.
The Chakras System, Chakra is a Sanskrit word literally meaning wheel.. These centers were named as such because of the circular shape to the spinning energy centers which exist in our subtle etheric body, the non-material energetic counterpart to our physical body.
Chakra means wheel in Sanskrit, and the chakras of humans are wheels of energy in the human aura, or energy field. Life force energy -- chi, ki, or prana -- flows in and out of us through the chakras. Chakras-Wheels of Energy-Wheels of Life. Chakra means wheel in Sanskrit, and the chakras of humans are wheels of energy in the human aura, or energy field. Life force energy -- chi, ki, or prana -- flows in and out of us through the chakras. Each chakra has an area of life that its energy affects particularly.