Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Zirgan sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the Zirgan (ganciclovir ophthalmic gel) Side Effects Center for a complete guide to possible
You should not use this medication if you are allergic to ganciclovir or acyclovir (Zovirax). Ganciclovir implant (Vitrasert) is used to treat cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection of the eye. Ganciclovir gel (Zirgan) is used to treat eye ulcers caused by the herpes simplex virus. Ganciclovir is not a cure for CMV or herpes. This medication will not treat symptoms of these infections in any other part of the body. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the Zirgan (ganciclovir ophthalmic gel) Side Effects Center for a complete guide to possible
Ganciclovir gel (Zirgan) is used to treat eye ulcers caused by the herpes simplex virus. Ganciclovir is not a cure for CMV or herpes. This medication will not treat symptoms of these infections in any other part of the body. Ganciclovir may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to ganciclovir or acyclovir (Zovirax). Ganciclovir implant (Vitrasert) is used to treat cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection of the eye. Be the first to review this Drug. Ganciclovir is an antiviral drug. It slows the growth and spread of the cytomegalovirus. Ganciclovir ophthalmic (for the eyes) is used to treat certain viral infections affecting the eyes
Zirgan Directions. Apply this medication to the affected eye as directed by your doctor, usually 5 times a day (about every 3 hours while awake) until the eye has healed, and then 3 times a day for 7 more days. To apply eye medication, wash your hands first. Zirgan Side Effects. Temporary blurred vision after you apply this medication and mild eye irritation/redness may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly.
Zirgan is supplied as a 0.15% gel designed for topical ophthalmic administration. The recommended initial dose is 1 drop in the affected eye 5 times per day (approximately every 3 hours while awake) until the corneal ulcer heals, and then 1 drop 3 times per day for 7 days. General Information. Zirgan is a topical gel formulation of ganciclovir. Ganciclovir is a guanosine derivative that, upon phosphorylation, inhibits DNA replication by herpes simplex viruses (HSV). Zirgan is specifically indicated for the treatment of herpetic keratitis (dendritic ulcers)
DRUG DESCRIPTION. ZIRGAN (ganciclovir ophthalmic gel) 0.15% contains a sterile, topical antiviral for ophthalmic use. The chemical name is 9-[[(2-hydroxy-1 -(hydroxymethyl) ethoxy] methyl] guanine (CAS number 82410-32-0). Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  eye pain, swelling, redness, or watering; 2  severe burning or itching of your eyes; 3  vision changes, increased sensitivity to light; 4  tunnel vision, problems with peripheral (side) vision;
How to use Zirgan ophthalmic. Apply this medication to the affected eye as directed by your doctor, usually 5 times a day (about every 3 hours while awake) until the eye has healed, and then 3 times a day for 7 more days. To apply eye medication, wash your hands first. However, treating an outbreak may help the sores in the eye to heal faster and lower the risk of complications (such as decreased vision, blindness). Ganciclovir is an anti-viral drug. This medication treats only herpes eye infections. It will not work for other types of eye infections, such as those caused by bacteria. Unnecessary use or misuse of any anti-infective drug can lead to its decreased effectiveness