Kiribati, formerly the Gilbert Islands, consists of three widely separated main groups of southwest Pacific islands: the Gilberts on the equator, the Phoenix Islands to the east, and the Line Islands farther east. 
Kiribati is an island nation in the Pacific Ocean. Its name, which is pronounced “Kiribass” is derived from the name Gilbert, from the British discoverer of the islands, Thomas Gilbert. The islands were called Gilbert Islands by later explorers, which evolved with the local language and became Kiribati. Kiribati is located along the equator and the International Date Line in the Pacific Ocean. The Republic of Kiribati is made up of about 32 atolls and the raised coral island of Banaba (also called Ocean Island). The territory includes a few island groups: the Gilbert Islands, the Phoenix Islands, and the Line Islands
The 33 atolls that make up Kiribati-the former Gilbert Islands-occupy a vast area in the equatorial Pacific-nearly 4,000 km from east to west and more than 2,000 km from north to south. Kiribati-pronounced Kiribas-won independence from the United Kingdom in 1979. 
The widely scattered nation of Kiribati, pronounced Kir-ee-bahs, located in the Pacific Ocean along the edges of the Equator, includes the Gilbert, Phoenix and Line island groups. Most are uninhabited. The isolated location of the Kiribati islands prevents tourism from flourishing, and becoming a major business, even though the weather is consistently warm, offshore reefs teem with colorful fish, and WWII shipwrecks are commonplace, especially off the eastern edge of Kiritimati (Christmas Island.
UTC+12 to +14. Kiribati [1] (pronounced Kiri-bass) is an island group in Micronesia straddling the equator and, until 1995, the International Date Line. Kiribati's 33 atolls, with a total area of only 811 km², are scattered over an area of 3.5 million km². Kiribati saw some of the worst fighting of the Pacific theatre during the Second World War, including the infamous Battle of Tarawa in November 1943.
Kiribati (/ˌkɪrɪˈbaes/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBæS-keer-ə bahss /or/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBɑːTI-keer-ə-bah), tee officially The republic Of (Kiribati: Gilbertese Ribaberiki), kiribati is an island nation in the Central Pacific. Ocean the nation comprises 33 atolls and reef islands and one raised coral, Island. banaba The population of Kiribati has a life expectancy at birth of 60 years (57 for males, and 63 for females) and an infant mortality rate of 54 deaths per 1,000 live births. Tuberculosis is present in the country. Government expenditure on health was at US$268 per capita (PPP) in 2006.
Kiribati was granted self-rule by the UK in 1971 and complete independence in 1979. The US relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited Phoenix and Line Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with Kiribati. The name Kiribati is pronounced Kiri-bass, which is the closest local equivalent to Gilberts. Kiribati's 33 atolls, with a total area of only 811 km², are scattered over an area of 3.5 million km². Kiribati saw some of the worst fighting of the Pacific theatre during the Second World War, including the infamous Battle of Tarawa in November 1943.
About Kiribati. Kiribati (pronounced Kiribas) is an independent republic within the Commonwealth of Nations, located in the central Pacific Ocean, about 4,000 km (about 2,500 mi) southwest of Hawaii. It is part of the division of the Pacific islands that is known as Micronesia. Kiribati has a total land area of 811 sq km (313 sq mi). The islands extend about 3,900 km (about 2,400 mi) from east to west. From north to south they extend about 2,100 km (about 1,300 mi), straddling the equator.
Kiribati (/ˌkɪrɪˈbaes/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBæS-keer-ə bahss /or/ ; ˌKɪRɪˈBɑːTI-keer-ə-bah), tee officially The republic Of (Kiribati: Gilbertese Ribaberiki), kiribati is an island nation in the Central Pacific. ocean The population of Kiribati has a life expectancy at birth of 60 years (57 for males, and 63 for females) and an infant mortality rate of 54 deaths per 1,000 live births. Tuberculosis is present in the country. Government expenditure on health was at US$268 per capita (PPP) in 2006.