There are herbal remedies that improve blood sugar metabolism, which are effective while under a doctor's care. This condition is characterized by the body's inability to move digested carbohydrates and sugars into cells. Insulin, a protein hormone, is necessary to shuttle the nutrients into the cells. 1 To see all of our herbal remedies, visit our main Herbal Remedies page. 2  To learn more about treating common medical conditions yourself, go to our main Home Remedies page. 3  To learn other ways you can lower your blood sugar, read Home Remedies for Diabetes.
Fenugreek is an herb that can also be used to control diabetes, improve glucose tolerance and lower blood sugar levels due to its hypoglycaemic activity. It also stimulates the secretion of glucose-dependent insulin. Being high in fiber, it slows down the absorption of carbohydrates and sugars. Some of the common symptoms of diabetes include fatigue, weight loss (even though you are eating more), excessive thirst, increased urination, cut and bruises that are slow to heal and blurred vision. While there is no cure for diabetes, with your blood sugar level under control you can live a totally normal life.
Overall, there is limited scientific evidence on the effectiveness of treating diabetes with herbal medicines. And the evidence that is available is not sufficiently strong to prove that any of the herbal medicines discussed in this article have benefits for type 2 diabetes or its complications. Although some types of herbal medicine may be effective, others can be ineffective or even harmful. Patients who use herbal remedies for diabetes need to let their healthcare providers know what they are doing.
Herbs for Diabetes Since antiquity, diabetes has been treated with plant medicines. Recent scientific investigation has confirmed the efficacy of many of these preparations, some of which are remarkably effective. Gymnema Sylvestre (Gurmar, Meshasringi, Cherukurinja). Gymnema assists the pancreas in the production of insulin in Type 2 diabetes. Gymnema also improves the ability of insulin to lower blood sugar in both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. It decreases cravings for sweet.
1 This Philippine herbal medicine has been found to be effective in the treatment of diabetes (diabetes mellitus), hemofrhoids, coughs, burns and scalds, and being studied for anti-cancer properties. 1 Ampalaya (Momordica charantia) Common names include bitter melon  or bitter gourd  in English. 2 
In folk medicine it has been used to treat diabetes. In a preliminary study of people with type 2 diabetes, supplementing with an extract from the leaves of Lagerstroemia speciosa for two weeks resulted in a fall in blood-glucose levels averaging 20 to 30%. Hibiscus is a traditional remedy in India for diabetes; this treatment is supported by preliminary studies from that country and by animal studies. Hibiscus is usually taken as tea, such as 1 to 2 teaspoons (3 to 6 grams) of dried flower infused in to 1 cup (250 ml) three times per day.
Some people with diabetes consider using alternative treatments for diabetes, including herbal medicine. Although some types of herbal medicine may be effective, others can be ineffective or even harmful. Patients who use herbal remedies for diabetes need to let their healthcare providers know what they are doing. This article focuses on a couple of herbal medicines for diabetes, including:
Font Size. A. A. A. Diabetes treatment can include many elements, including traditional medications, alternative medicine, and natural remedies. Alternative therapies encompass a variety of disciplines that include everything from diet and exercise to mental conditioning and lifestyle changes. Acupuncture has been shown to offer relief from chronic pain. Acupuncture is sometimes used by people with neuropathy, the painful nerve damage of diabetes. Biofeedback. Biofeedback is a technique that helps a person become more aware of and learn to deal with the body's response to pain. This alternative therapy emphasizes relaxation and stress-reduction techniqu
Herbal remedies can assist in lowering blood glucose levels. Many common herbs and spices are claimed to have blood sugar lowering properties that make them useful for people with or at high risk of type 2 diabetes. In fact, because certain herbs, vitamins and supplements may interact with diabetes medications (including insulin) and increase their hypoglycemic effects, it is often argued that use of natural therapies could reduce blood sugars to dangerously low levels and raise the risk of other diabetes complications.