III: Third Wave or Third Generation CBT: Now in 2006 with cognitive behavioral therapy being nearly 50 years old, there is talk of new changes in traditional CBT, a so called  third wave  of cognitive-behavior therapies.
Behavior therapy is a broad term referring to psychotherapy, behavior analytical, or a combination of the two therapies. In its broadest sense, the methods focus on either just behaviors or in combination with thoughts and feelings that might be causing them.
Overview. Behavior therapy is a form of psychotherapy used to treat depression, anxiety disorders, phobias, and other forms of psychopathology. It arose out of the German mechanist theory of psychology in the nineteenth century.
Behavioral therapy is a treatment that helps change potentially self-destructing behaviors. It is also called behavioral modification or cognitive behavioral therapy. Medical professionals use this type of therapy to replace bad habits with good ones. The therapy also helps you cope with difficult situations.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a form of psychotherapy that is used to treat a variety of mental disorders.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (also known by its abbreviation, CBT) is a short-term, goal-oriented psychotherapy treatment that takes a hands-on, practical approach to problem-solving. Its goal is to change patterns of thinking or behavior that are behind people’s difficulties, and so change the way they feel.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can be used to treat people with a wide range of mental health problems. is based on the idea that how we think (cognition), how we feel (emotion) and how we act (behavior) all interact together. Specifically, our thoughts determine our feelings and our behavior.
The founder of cognitive behavioral therapy is Aaron T. Beck, M.D., who graduated from Brown University and Yale Medical School.
Basically cognitive behavioral therapy is used to change the person's thinking, behavior and emotional response to a problem and this helps the person look at the problem in a different and positive perspective.
REBT is the pioneering form of cognitive behavior therapy developed by Dr. Albert Ellis in 1955. REBT is an action-oriented approach to managing cognitive, emotional, and behavioral disturbances.