Calcium stones are usually found in the form of calcium oxalate, and sometimes also as calcium phosphate. Calcium stones are the most common type of kidney stones which are formed when calcium, not used by the body, combine with phosphate or oxalate. The symptoms of kidney stones in women are somewhat similar to the symptoms observed in men. These symptoms include pain in the lower back or flank area, pain or a burning sensation while urinating, blood in urine, etc.
Knowing the type of kidney stone helps determine the cause and may give clues on how to reduce your risk of getting more kidney stones. Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate. 1 Cystine stones. 2  These stones form in people with a hereditary disorder that causes the kidneys to excrete too much of certain amino acids (cystinuria). 3  Other stones. 4  Other, rarer types of kidney stones also can occur.
1 Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 1 Cystine stones. 2  These stones form in people with a hereditary disorder that causes the kidneys to excrete too much of certain amino acids (cystinuria). 3  Other stones. 4  Other, rarer types of kidney stones also can occur.
This type of stone is found mostly in women with urinary tract infections. These stones can be large and cause urinary obstruction. These stones are caused by a kidney infection. Treating an underlying infection can prevent the development of struvite stones. Sometimes, they pass from the kidney into the ureters. Ureters are small and delicate, and the stones may be too large to pass smoothly down the ureter to the bladder. Passage of stones down the ureter can cause spasms and irritation of the ureters as they pass, which causes blood to appear in the urine.
1 Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 2  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones. 3  Diet and hereditary factors are also related to stone formation. 1 Nephrolithiasis is the medical term for kidney stones. 2  One in every 20 people develop kidney stones at some point in their life. 3  Kidney stones form when there is a decrease in urine volume and/or an excess of stone-forming substances in the urine. 4  Dehydration is a major risk factor for kidney
1 Dehydration is a major risk factor for kidney stone formation. 2  Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 3  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones. 1 Nephrolithiasis is the medical term for kidney stones. 2  One in every 20 people develop kidney stones at some point in their life. 3  Kidney stones form when there is a decrease in urine volume and/or an excess of stone-forming substances in the urine. 4  Dehydration is a major risk factor for kidney stone formation
Uric acid kidney stones are more common in people with chronically elevated uric acid levels in their blood (hyperuricemia). A small number of pregnant women develop kidney stones, and there is some evidence that pregnancy-related changes may increase the risk of stone formation. Urinary tract stones are more common in men than in women. Most urinary stones develop in people 20-49 years of age, and those who are prone to multiple attacks of kidney stones usually develop their first stones during the second or third decade of life.
Causes of Kidney Stones. There are different types of kidney stones, based on the composition. The most common case is that they are made of calcium oxalate crystals. The causative factors for this kidney problem in women is almost similar to men. Symptoms as Observed in Women. Unfortunately the signs and symptoms of renal stones are not always easily detected. 1 One of the most common causes is less intake of water and fluids. 2  Due to this reason, the body gets dehydrated and the kidneys are unable to completely dissolve and discard calcium salts from the body. 3  Calcium oxalate is also released by the liver, during detoxification.