What if the payday is not weekly? The employee must receive the full salary of at least $455 per week if paid on a weekly basis. If the employee is paid every two weeks (bi-weekly), the minimum salary required is $910.00. If the employee is paid twice a month (semi-monthly), the minimum salary required is $985.83. However, the employment arrangement must first include a guarantee of at least the minimum weekly required amount of at least $455 per week, paid on a salary basis, regardless of the number of hours, days or shifts worked.
An employee elects to receive a pay-out of leave which has a gross value of $1,000. Although this $1,000 payment cannot be salary sacrificed and paid directly into the employee's superannuation account as an employer contribution (from pre-tax salary), the following arrangements achieve the same result: In such cases, the employees salary will be reduced by the amount necessary to pay both the superannuation contribution and the 15 per cent tax payable by the University upon making the payment as an employer superannuation contribution.
An employee who meets the duties tests for the executive exemption must be paid on a salary basis of at least $455 per week. An employee who meets the duties tests for the administrative or professional exemption must be paid on a salary or fee basis of at least $455 per week. However, the employment arrangement must first include a guarantee of at least the minimum weekly required amount of at least $455 per week, paid on a salary basis, regardless of the number of hours, days or shifts worked.
This means you are left with a lower amount of taxable income. For example, say you earned $50,000 a year and you wanted to buy a new computer for work, worth $2,000. With salary sacrifice, the $2,000 would be taken out before you receive your income. So you would end up with a $48,000 taxable income figure, and the computer. Therefore you don't have to pay the income tax rate on that $2,000. Salary sacrifice, sometimes referred to as salary packaging, is when you buy something using your pre-tax income instead of your after tax income. This is usually set up with your employer, they will take the amount out of your wages/salary before it is given to you.
Prior to purchasing a laptop, the Approval for the Salary Sacrifice of a Laptop Computer (PDF 36KB) form must be completed and signed by your Head of Budget Centre. The details of your application will be assessed by the University. In such cases, the employees salary will be reduced by the amount necessary to pay both the superannuation contribution and the 15 per cent tax payable by the University upon making the payment as an employer superannuation contribution.
1 The employee can then salary sacrifice an equivalent amount of gross salary ($1,000) over (for example) the next 2 pays directly into superannuation. 2  Therefore, for each of those 2 pays, gross salary would be reduced by $500 with a consequent reduction in tax payable for those 2 fortnights. In such cases, the employees salary will be reduced by the amount necessary to pay both the superannuation contribution and the 15 per cent tax payable by the University upon making the payment as an employer superannuation contribution.
Setting the tone. As a startup founder, money is one of your greatest resources. If you set your salary high, you are obviously going to burn money more quickly, but it also sets the wrong tone. We are no longer in the dot com era, and some startups need to realize that a high burn rate is no longer a badge of pride. 
Salary sacrificing into superannuation TB 10 | TECHNICAL SERVICES | ISSUED ON 12 JANUARY 2015 ADVISER USE ONLY VERSION 1.1 Summary The primary benefit of such a salary sacrifice Salary sacrificing part of an employee’s wage or salary into superannuation can be a tax effective means to accumulate wealth for retirement. Under an ineffective salary sacrifice arrangement, the sacrificed wage or salary will form part of the employee’s assessable income and will be taxed accordingly. Any superannuation contributions made under an ineffective salary sacrifice arrangement will constitute non-concessional contributions of the employee.
Therefore, the salary sacrificed amount may have also satisfied the employer’s SG requirements. Example In the 2014/15 financial year, Sam is 52. His salary and OTE is $60,000 pa. Sam enters a salary sacrifice arrangement to forego $10,000 of his salary for additional employer superannuation contributions. Sam’s salary/OTE is reduced to $50,000. Under an ineffective salary sacrifice arrangement, the sacrificed wage or salary will form part of the employee’s assessable income and will be taxed accordingly. Any superannuation contributions made under an ineffective salary sacrifice arrangement will constitute non-concessional contributions of the employee.