The earliest surnames found in Scotland occur during the reign of David I, King of Scots (1124–53). These were Anglo-Norman names which had become hereditary in England before arriving in Scotland (for example, the contemporary surnames de Brus, de Umfraville, and Ridel). Many Scottish surnames are the names of Scottish clans that were once powerful families dominating large swaths of territory. However, it is a common misconception that every person who bears a clan's name is a lineal descendant of the chiefs of that particular clan.
Scottish surnames are surnames currently found in Scotland, or surnames that have a historical connection with the country. Many Scottish surnames are the names of Scottish clans that were once powerful families dominating large swaths of territory. However, it is a common misconception that every person who bears a clan's name is a lineal descendant of the chiefs of that particular clan.
Robert, The Bruce, (1274 - 1329), was crowned king of Scotland in 1306, and consolidated Scottish independence when he defeated the English forces of Edward 11 at Bannockburn in 1314. His brother, Edward, was crowned King of Ireland in 1315. 
Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Bruce means-Surname since medieval times; now a common given name. Folklore tale of 14th century Robert King of Scotland: (the Bruce) who learned the value of perseverance from watching a spider spin a web.. Other origins for the name Bruce include-Scottish, French, English, French.The name Bruce is most often used as a boy name or male name. Scottish Name Meaning-Surname since medieval times; now a common given name. Folklore tale of 14th century Robert King of Scotland: (the Bruce) who learned the value of perseverance from watching a spider spin a web. Origin-Scottish
Bruce Name Meaning. Scottish and English (of Norman origin): habitational name from a place in Normandy which has not been certainly identified. Traditionally, it is believed to be derived from Brix near Cherbourg, but Le Brus in Calvados and Briouze in Orne have also been proposed as candidates. 
The name Bruce is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Bruce is: Thick brush. Surname since medieval times; now a common given name. Folklore tale of 14th century Robert King of Scotland: (the Bruce) who learned the value of perseverance from watching a spider spin a web. The name Bruce is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Bruce is: From Brys. Scottish Meaning: The name Bruce is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Bruce is: Surname since medieval times; now a common given name. Folklore tale of 14th century Robert King of Scotland: ('the Bruce'
From a Scottish surname, of Norman origin, which probably originally referred to the town of Brix in France. The surname was borne by Robert the Bruce, a Scottish hero of the 14th century who achieved independence from England and became the king of Scotland. It has been in use as a given name in the English-speaking world since the 19th century. A notable bearer is the American musician Bruce Springsteen (1949-). 
English Meaning: The name Bruce is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Bruce is: Thick brush. Surname since medieval times; now a common given name. Folklore tale of 14th century Robert King of Scotland: (the Bruce) who learned the value of perseverance from watching a spider spin a web. The name Bruce is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Bruce is: From Brys. Scottish Meaning: The name Bruce is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Bruce is: Surname since medieval times; now a common given name. Folklore tale of 14th century Robert King of Scotland: ('the Bruce'