1 For example, DaVita, which has many dialysis centers across the United States, charges about $480 for a dialysis treatment, not including medications. 2  A dialysis center in Ohio quotes a rate of more than $1,400 but will negotiate with self-pay patients. 1 A dialysis center in Ohio quotes a rate of more than $1,400 but will negotiate with self-pay patients. 2  An emergency, unscheduled dialysis treatment at a hospital can cost much more; for example, Baptist Memorial Health Care in Memphis charges about $9,900 for a single treatment.
In a dialysis center, hemodialysis is usually done 3 times per week for about 4 hours at a time. People who choose to do hemodialysis at home may do dialysis treatment more frequently, 4-7 times per week for shorter hours each time. Your doctor will give you a prescription that tells you how much treatment you need. 
1 For hemodialysis at home, special plumbing and wiring will need to be added for about $1,250-$2,000, according to the American Association of Kidney Patients. 2  Dialysis patients need to follow a special diet under the guidance of a dietician. 1 A dialysis center in Ohio quotes a rate of more than $1,400 but will negotiate with self-pay patients. 2  An emergency, unscheduled dialysis treatment at a hospital can cost much more; for example, Baptist Memorial Health Care in Memphis charges about $9,900 for a single treatment.
1 For peritoneal dialysis, the main costs consist of medical supplies to perform the procedure at home -- so it is slightly less expensive than hemodialysis. 2  According to the U.S. Renal Data System, one year of hemodialysis can total $72,000; a year of peritoneal dialysis can cost about $53,000. 1 A dialysis center in Ohio quotes a rate of more than $1,400 but will negotiate with self-pay patients. 2  An emergency, unscheduled dialysis treatment at a hospital can cost much more; for example, Baptist Memorial Health Care in Memphis charges about $9,900 for a single treatment.
A dialysis nurse is a nurse who specializes in working with patients suffering from kidney failure whose disease is serious enough to warrant dialysis, a medical treatment that filters excess fluids, minerals, creatinine, urea, and other wastes from the body when the kidneys can no longer perform that function. Dialysis takes place either at a dialysis center or a patient’s own home. Dialysis nurses who work at dialysis centers will be assigned patients much as they might be on a hospital ward, and will be responsible for those patients throughout their shifts. The average patient load is six
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Staff Nurse-RN-Renal Dialysis in the United States is $70,481 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Renal Dialysis in the United States are expected to make less than $70,481. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. The annual salary for someone with the job title Staff Nurse-RN-Renal Dialysis may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Renal Dialysis Technician in the United States is $37,649, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Renal Dialysis Technician in the United States are expected to make less than $37,649. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 
An average Dialysis Registered Nurse in the United States can expect to take home roughly $29.89 per hour. Total cash compensation for Dialysis Registered Nurses runs from $50K to $81K depending on bonuses that can occasionally exceed $3K and profit sharing that can reach almost $3K. Those at Satellite Dialysis can expect to make the most, with the company offering a median salary of $73K. Soaring salaries can also be found at FMC Corporation, American Renal Associates, and Fresinius, where earnings of $72K, $69K, or $67K are standard for Dialysis Registered Nurses.
What is the average annual salary for Staff Nurse-RN-Renal Dialysis? The annual salary for someone with the job title Staff Nurse-RN-Renal Dialysis may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.