The History of Australia (1851–1900) refers to the history of the indigenous and colonial peoples of the Australian continent during the 50-year period which preceded the foundation of the Commonwealth of Australia in 1901. In 1858 a new gold rush began in the far north, which led in 1859 to the separation of Queensland as a new colony. New South Wales thus attained its present borders, although what is now the Northern Territory remained part of the colony until 1863, when it was handed over to South Australia.
Within 50 years of the discovery of gold the Australian colonies had obtained the right to self governance (within imperial limits) and Australian per capita income was one of the highest in the world. Today, gold remains an important component of Australia’s export portfolio. In summary, the discovery of gold in Australia was a turning point in its history and economic development. The revenue obtained from the gold discoveries of the 1850s enabled the Colonial governments of the time to embark on a path of rapid population growth via assisted migration.
In 1700, there were about 250,000 European and African settlers in North America’s thirteen English colonies. By 1775, on the eve of revolution, there were nearly 2.5 million. These colonists did not have much in common, but they were able to band together and fight for their independence. The New England Colonies. The first English emigrants to what would become the New England colonies were a small group of Puritan separatists, later called the Pilgrims, who arrived in Plymouth in 1620.
The Australian gold rushes were periods of significant immigration of workers, both more locally and from overseas, to areas which had discoveries of gold deposits. A number of gold finds occurred in Australia prior to 1851, but only the gold found from 1851 onwards created gold rushes. The Australian gold rushes changed the convict colonies into more progressive cities with the influx of free emigrants. These hopefuls, termed diggers, brought new skills and professions, contributing to a burgeoning economy.
Victorian Gold Rush. The first popular gold rush of the 19th century, was the California gold rush which started with the discovery of gold in Coloma, California in 1848. Close on the heels of California gold rush came the Australian version, the Victorian gold rush. 
End of the gold rush. Subsequent to the initial discovery of gold in the New South Wales and Victorian colonies, a succession of discoveries were also made in the colonies of Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. In summary, the discovery of gold in Australia was a turning point in its history and economic development. The revenue obtained from the gold discoveries of the 1850s enabled the Colonial governments of the time to embark on a path of rapid population growth via assisted migration.
With the discovery of major gold deposits in WA, moves were made towards combining the colonies into one nation. Prior to the discoveries, the government of WA had been reluctant to join the other colonies as they felt they would have little influence on any decisions made by a Federal Government. The 1880s were a boom time for Western Australia. In 1862 the Western Australian Government had offered 5000 to anyone who could find payable gold deposits. As a result, gold was found in large deposits in several parts of the State.
The discovery of gold in Australia in 1851 was a defining event in both the economic and social development of Australia. In summary, the discovery of gold in Australia was a turning point in its history and economic development. The revenue obtained from the gold discoveries of the 1850s enabled the Colonial governments of the time to embark on a path of rapid population growth via assisted migration.
The Thirteen Colonies. A map of the 13 British colonies in North America prior to the revolution. The setting of the American Revolution was thirteen British colonies, located in eastern North America. These colonies were ‘discovered’, explored and settled over more than a century – beginning with Virginia in 1607 and concluding with the settlement of Georgia in 1732. 
The discovery of gold, beginning in 1851 first at Bathurst in New South Wales and then in the newly formed colony of Victoria, transformed Australia economically, politically and demographically. The gold rushes occurred hard on the heels of a major worldwide economic depression. In 1858 a new gold rush began in the far north, which led in 1859 to the separation of Queensland as a new colony. New South Wales thus attained its present borders, although what is now the Northern Territory remained part of the colony until 1863, when it was handed over to South Australia.