The Edge 520 taps into cyclists competitive edge and offers them the latest in innovative training tools.. OLATHE, Kan.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Garmin International Inc., a unit of Garmin Ltd. (NASDAQ: GRMN), today announced the Edge 520, the first GPS bike computer with Strava Live Segments. Additionally, the Edge 1000, Edge 810 and Edge 510 will add support for Strava Live Segments via a software update in Q3. Users can also tap into their competitive edge with in-ride challenges through Garmin Connect segments.
◦Added support for Strava Live Segments. To start the Strava Live Segments experience, go to connect.garmin.com and link your Garmin Connect account with your Strava premium account through the segments widget, then sync with your Edge 1000 through WiFi, Garmin Connect Mobile, or Garmin Express. Note: As of August 25th, 2015 Garmin has now released firmware updates for the Edge 510, Edge 810, and Edge 1000. You can use Garmin Express (desktop app) or the Garmin Webupdater (also desktop app) to install these.
If your Garmin Edge device can receive segments from Garmin Connect, it will also work with Strava Live Segments. The Garmin Edge 520 will be the first to use Strava Live Segments; Edge 510, 810 and 1000 with become compatible in the fall of 2015. If you’re using Strava Live Segments in your Garmin Connect account, your Garmin segments will not show. Your account will only display segments from one source at a time. Switch back to Garmin segments using the gear menu in the Segments feature on your dashboard.
Prove Your Edge. Edge 520 is the first bike computer that’s compatible with Strava live segments and includes a 3-month trial of Strava Premium. With this membership, your starred Strava segments automatically sync with the 520 for live feedback during your ride. We started with the aerodynamic form factor of the popular Edge 500, added in-ride challenges on Strava live segments, color display, connected capabilities and advanced analysis features. The result — Edge 520, the GPS bike computer that’s right-sized for competitive cyclists and packed with the features you crave.
Preconditions. All you need is a Strava Account and a Garmin Edge 1000. Note: You don't need to login to Strava. The Segment Builder is currently connected to my Strava Account and can only access public Segments and efforts. You can find Segments via the Segment Explorer / Segment Search or in the Segment section of one of your rides. Go to the Segment Details Screen and copy the URL of the Segment: If you want to access a Segment from the Segment section of one of your rides, please click on View full leaderboard.
Strava™ Segments. You can download Strava segments to your Edge ® device. Follow Strava segments to compare your performance with your past rides, friends, and pros who have ridden the same segment. To sign up for a Strava membership, go to the segments widget in your Garmin Connect™ account. For more information, go to www.strava.com.
“We’re excited to announce the Edge 520 and our strategic relationship with Strava – providing cyclists with the first GPS bike computer to have Strava Live Segments,” said Dan Bartel, Garmin vice president of worldwide sales. Additionally, the Edge 1000, Edge 810 and Edge 510 will add support for Strava Live Segments via a software update in Q3. Users can also tap into their competitive edge with in-ride challenges through Garmin Connect segments.
1. Select a Segment. Go to Strava and find the Segment you want to export. You can find Segments via the Segment Explorer / Segment Search or in the Segment section of one of your rides. Go to the Segment Details Screen and copy the URL of the Segment: If you want to access a Segment from the Segment section of one of your rides, please click on View full leaderboard.
As the first GPS bike computer with Strava Live Segments, users can upload segments directly from Strava to their Edge 520 to receive instantaneous data, compete for King of the Mountain or Queen of the Mountain titles, and improve their personal bests. Additionally, the Edge 1000, Edge 810 and Edge 510 will add support for Strava Live Segments via a software update in Q3. Users can also tap into their competitive edge with in-ride challenges through Garmin Connect segments.