The Ayakashi (アヤカシ) in myths are ghosts appearing at sea during a shipwreck, but in the Sentai Universe, they are ancient spirits with nightmarish forms that serve the Gedoushu, dwelling within the depths of the Sanzu River until being summoned to go through the gap.
This is a fan base wiki which contains in-game contents of Ayakashi: Ghost Guild like details or facts about the Daemons, Characters, Places and others to know more about them. Please note that while we are recognized by Zynga, we (specifically the moderators) are not employed by Zynga.
Ayakashi are supernatural creatures (though the term is most often applied to demons), and come in a variety of shapes and sizes, ranging in power from mildly annoying to incredibly dangerous. Nearly all sentient Ayakashi seek greater power, generally through means of force.
797 pages on this wiki. Most Ayakashi are of the least powerful variety (though this in no way means they are harmless): they are drawn to Karasumori in search of greater power, likely because they could easily be destroyed or cease to exist without it.
1 ayakashi (yōkai) , the collective name for yōkai (supernatural monsters) that appear above water. 2  Ayakashi (visual novel) , a 2005 horror visual novel with a 2008 anime adaptation.
Plot Summary: Adapted from the 2005 adults-only superhuman battle action visual novel game Ayakashi. Ayakashi is a parasite life force that gives superpowers to its host, taking in return the host's entire life force.
Ayakashi (妖) (Demons in the English Dub) are creatures of the night. They hate light, preferring darkness. They are the main threat to Kekkaishi and Karasumori. It is a Kekkaishi's duty to defend the site from Ayakashi attack, either removing or destroying them in the process.
Oni are a unique Ayakashi species in that they are able to form contract partnerships with human demon tamers. The contract is formed when the human gives the oni a name, as well as a charmed tool, which acts as a visible symbol of their bond and a means of nonverbal communication.