The difference is that a saturated hydrocarbon contains all single bonds: each carbon is surrounded by 4 hydrogens, and is thus saturated.. Meanwhile, unsaturated hydrocarbon … s do not contain all single bonds: they can have double bond(s) or even triple bonds.
If an organic compound does not include any elements other than carbon and hydrogen, then it is a hydrocarbon. Here are some examples: : octane. octane. a hydrocarbon. octane. includes atoms of carbon and hydrogen; nothing else. : 1-chloropropane. 1-chloropropane is
Ethene, C2H4, is an example of an unsaturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of unsaturated compounds are benzene, C6H6, and acetic acid, C2H4O2. All bond angles about the carbon-carbon double bond are 120o. All atoms bonded to the double bonded carbon atoms lie in the same plane.
Saturated hydrocarbon cannot bond with compounds anymore, where as unsaturated hydrocarbons can bond, as they contain double or triple bonds. When they bond, the double and tr … iple bonds break and new separate single bonds are formed with hydrogens or any other external compounds.
A hydrocarbon is an organic compound made of nothing more than carbons and hydrogens. It is possible for double or triple bonds to form between carbon atoms and even for structures, such as rings, to form. Saturated hydrocarbons have as many hydrogen atoms as possible attached to every carbon.
Ethane, C2H6, is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of saturated compounds are octane, C8H18, and diethyl ether, C4H10O. The term unsaturated is used to designate a compound which contains double or triple bonds and therefore not every carbon is bonded to a different atom.
Ethane, C2H6, is an alkane and is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Ethene, C2H4, is an alkene and is an example of unsaturated hydrocarbon. Ethyne, C2H2, is an alkyne and is also an example of unsaturated hydrocarbon. Aromatic compounds are unsaturated hydrocarbons and contain a benzene ring.
The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2. The term saturated is used to refer to a compound in which all carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds and every carbon atom is connected to a different atom. A saturated hydrocarbon will contain all the hydrogen atoms possible according to the alkane general formula CnH2n+2.
Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons. Saturated means that the hydrocarbon has only single bonds and that the hydrocarbon contains the maximum number of hydrogen atoms for each carbon atom. Unsaturated hydrocarbons contain multiple bonding and contain less than the maximum number of hydrogens per carbon.