At the conclusion of the 2013–14 NBA season, 33% of NBA players had spent time in the NBA D-League, up from 23% in 2011. Beginning in the 2015–16 NBA season, the league will consist of 19 teams; all of whom will be either single-affiliated or owned by an NBA team. The Fort Wayne Mad Ants had been the lone exception, until they were acquired by the Indiana Pacers in September 2015. Today, no NBA D-League teams remain in the league's original Southeastern footprint. On November 5, 2009, the Texas Legends made history by hiring Nancy Lieberman as head coach, the first female head coach to lead an NBA or NBA D-League team.
In March 2005, NBA commissioner David Stern announced a plan to expand the NBA D-League to fifteen teams and develop it into a true minor league farm system, with each NBA D-League team affiliated with one or more NBA teams. Today, no NBA D-League teams remain in the league's original Southeastern footprint. On November 5, 2009, the Texas Legends made history by hiring Nancy Lieberman as head coach, the first female head coach to lead an NBA or NBA D-League team.
NBA Assignments: NBA teams can assign players who are rookies or in their second season to their D-League affiliate. Players can stay with the D-League affiliate for as long as the NBA team wishes, and be recalled back to the NBA at any time. NBA teams can assign players as many times as they choose. NBA D-League teams acquire players through a draft, NBA player assignments, NBA training camp allocations, tryouts and a returning player pool. What separates players in the NBA D-League from other minor league systems is that players do not sign contracts with specific NBA D-League teams.
There are 30 current basketball team in NBA.These teams divides as the western conference and eastern conference. List of Current NBA (National Basketball Association) Teams. A-Z List. Team: Atlanta Hawks. 
1 Basketball is back. 2  Here are 30 NBA D-League alums -- one on each NBA team -- to watch this month as the 2015-16 approaches. October 1, 2015 NBAE/Getty Images.
Back to NBA.com | Current job openings | My Account-TeamWork Online | Mobile. NBA/WNBA/D-LEAGUE TEAMS JOB BOARD. NBA/WNBA/D-LEAGUE TEAMS JOB BOARD. Welcome to the NBA/WNBA/D-League Team Jobs Web site where you can now be connected to all the hiring managers with NBA, WNBA, and D-League teams! If you are interested in working for any of the NBA/WNBA/D-League Teams, please scroll down and apply for a position. 
NBA D-League Alumni 30 Teams, 30 Alums Basketball is back. Here are 30 NBA D-League alums -- one on each NBA team -- to watch this month as the 2015-16 approaches. October 1, 2015 NBAE/Getty Images.
The NBA Development League, also known as the D-League, is a professional basketball league that was created to help players achieve their dreams of playing in the NBA. Currently, 16 teams make up the league, and each team is affiliated with at least one NBA franchise. NBA D-League teams acquire players through a draft, NBA player assignments, NBA training camp allocations, tryouts and a returning player pool. What separates players in the NBA D-League from other minor league systems is that players do not sign contracts with specific NBA D-League teams.
NBA teams can call up players as many times as they choose, and there is no limit to the number of times an NBA player with three years or less experience can be assigned to the D-League. Starting in 2011–12, veteran NBA players could be assigned with their consent. Today, no NBA D-League teams remain in the league's original Southeastern footprint. On November 5, 2009, the Texas Legends made history by hiring Nancy Lieberman as head coach, the first female head coach to lead an NBA or NBA D-League team.
The NBA is one of the four major North American professional sports leagues. NBA players are the world's best paid sportsmen, by average annual salary per player. The league was founded in New York City on June 6, 1946, as the Basketball Association of America (BAA). The league adopted the name National Basketball Association on August 3, 1949, after merging with its rival National Basketball League (NBL). The league's several international as well as individual team offices are directed out of its head offices located in the Olympic Tower at 645 Fifth Avenue in New York City. The Chicago Packers (now Washington Wizards) became the ninth NBA team in 1961. From 1966 to 1968, the league expanded from 9 to 14 teams, introducing the Chicago Bulls, Seattle SuperSonics (now Oklahoma City Thunder), San Diego Rockets (who relocated to Houston four years later), Milwaukee Bucks, and Phoenix Suns.