Bullpen catchers typically make less than six figures. Considered a taboo topic, bullpen catchers themselves aren’t sure how much their counterparts make. Every team is different, but the biggest payoff comes from playoff shares awarded to the teams that make the postseason. Brewers bullpen catcher Marcus Hanel estimated he catches at least 200 pitches every day, added to is handling long toss or throwing batting practice. “Anyone thinks they can do this job,” Hanel said.
You have to remember that they, as well as their families, get to fly on first class private airplanes with the team, stay in the best 5-star hotels with the team, and are alotted the same meal money per day while on the road, which is $200. So they make $16,200 a year in meal money alone. The average salary of a school or educational counselor is around $50000-$60000 per year. However, as a counselor gains years of experience, his or her salary also rises. Sala … ry also depends on where a counselor works. Pay varies by state, by school, and between public and private schools.
Bullpen catchers who work for Major League Baseball make less than  three figures a year. The average salary of a bullpen catcher is  usually around $60,000 per year. Some m … ake only $20,000 per year.  Bullpen catchers also receive about $89/day for meal money, like  the players. How much does an MLB ballboy make? In one account in the book Working at the Ballpark by Tom Jones, two MLB ballboys each made $81.50 per game plus tips from the players at the end of the season (page 142).
Save. It's just a baseball fact of life: pitchers need to warm up before facing opposing hitters. In the major leagues, a professional bullpen catcher is on call to serve as the warmup receiver during or before the game. A Front-Row Crouch. Many bullpen catchers are retired big leaguers, or players who ended their careers at the college or minor league level. Working as a bullpen catcher gives them a chance to participate with a major league team and make a contribution to the success of professional players.
Bullpen catchers who work for Major League Baseball make less than  three figures a year. The average salary of a bullpen catcher is  usually around $60,000 per year. Some m … ake only $20,000 per year.  Bullpen catchers also receive about $89/day for meal money, like  the players. The average salary of a school or educational counselor is around $50000-$60000 per year. However, as a counselor gains years of experience, his or her salary also rises. Sala … ry also depends on where a counselor works. Pay varies by state, by school, and between public and private schools.
Salaries range from $350,000 for the league minimum to $27.5 M for the highest paid player (Alex Rodriguez). The average salary has not been published for 2008 yet, bu … t it will be somewhere between $2 - $3.5 M. the minimum wage for a major league baseball player is almost $400000. + 46 others found this useful. How much does an MLB ballboy make? In one account in the book Working at the Ballpark by Tom Jones, two MLB ballboys each made $81.50 per game plus tips from the players at the end of the season (page 142).
The Average Salary of a Bullpen Catcher in the MLB; How to Make Money Without the Binds of an Office Job; ehow.com.... A Front-Row Crouch. Many bullpen catchers are retired big leaguers, or players who ended their careers at the college or minor league level. Working as a bullpen catcher gives them a chance to participate with a major league team and make a contribution to the success of professional players.