Get help from a doctor now ›. Maybe a warning: A tortuous aorta is one that is not straight(the normal condition) but does not contain and aneurysm. This may occur normally in older people or those with long standing hypertension. It may also occur in younger people who have abnormal composition of their artery walls. Twisty: Tortuous simply implies that the aorta, which is usually runs a straight back from the upper chest through the belly, makes a lot of twists and turns. Tortuosity of the aorta, by itself, has few implications in health or disease.
Aorta (Definition). The aorta is the largest artery in the body, leaving directly from the left ventricle of the heart to supply blood to the entire body. It is made of elastic tissue layers called intima and is subject to damage by high blood pressure, smoking, cholesterol, and inherited risk factors. ...Read more. Twisty: Tortuous simply implies that the aorta, which is usually runs a straight back from the upper chest through the belly, makes a lot of twists and turns. Tortuosity of the aorta, by itself, has few implications in health or disease.
Hello, Welcome to Just Answer. This is a finding from a scan rather than a diagnosis. Fatty buildup on the interior lining of blood vessels, including the aorta, can also have calcium deposits form on them. This is the calcified part. Tortuous means twisted or distorted. 
Report Abuse. A calcified aorta means that it is stiff due to calcium deposits in the artery wall. This condition is known as atherosclerosis which is a type of vascular disease. Aortic calcification is more common in older patients and those with cardiovascular disease and high cholesterol
Calcification occurs when the main artery of the body, known as the aorta, hardens as it passes through the abdomen. Before we discuss what the calcified abdominal aorta treatment is, we will explain why this condition occurs. We’ve all heard about cholesterol and the negative effects it can have on our body. High blood pressure can also cause atherosclerosis and in turn a calcified abdominal aorta. In addition, high cholesterol can lead to this problem. Lowering your blood pressure and cholesterol levels is a great way to reduce your risk of having a calcified aorta.
The aorta is the largest blood vessel in the body. It carries freshly oxygenated blood out of the heart so that it can be distributed to the circulatory system. In most people, the aorta follows a relatively straight path, but in people with tortuous aorta, the vessel may be twisted or distorted. closerfan12. Post 3. @EarlyForest -- Sometimes tortuous aortas can indirectly cause abdominal aortic aneurysms, like pharmchick78 was talking about. Since a tortuous aorta is abnormal, sometimes the wall of the aorta can be weaker, leading to an aortic aneurysm, or, worst case scenario, an aortic aneurysm rupture.
Many people with a tortuous aorta also have atherosclerosis or calcification of the artery. There are also at a higher risk for a wide range of ailments, including high blood pressure, low blood oxygen levels, and poor circulation. 
The aorta is the largest artery in the body, leaving directly from the left ventricle of the heart to supply blood to the entire body. It is made of elastic tissue layers called intima and is subject to damage by high blood pressure, smoking, cholesterol, and inherited risk factors. Twisty: Tortuous simply implies that the aorta, which is usually runs a straight back from the upper chest through the belly, makes a lot of twists and turns. Tortuosity of the aorta, by itself, has few implications in health or disease.
Aortic valve calcification is a condition in which calcium deposits form on the aortic valve in the heart. These deposits can cause narrowing at the opening of the aortic valve. This narrowing can become severe enough to reduce blood flow through the aortic valve, a condition called aortic valve stenosis. Aortic valve sclerosis — thickening and stiffness of the valve and mild aortic calcification — usually doesn't cause significant heart problems, but requires regular checkups to make sure your condition isn't worsening. If the valve becomes severely narrowed (stenotic), aortic valve replacement surgery may be necessary.