Many vegetarians also do not eat products that contain gelatin or other animal-based products. Lacto-vegetarians consume dairy products, but not eggs; ovo-vegetarians eat eggs, but not dairy products; and lacto-ovo-vegetarians eat eggs as well as dairy products. There is also pescetarianism, a vegetarian-like diet that avoids meat and poultry but does include fish. 
Ovo vegetarianism /ˈoʊvoʊ/ is a type of vegetarianism which allows for the consumption of eggs but not dairy products, in contrast with lacto vegetarianism. Those who practice ovo vegetarianism are called ovo-vegetarians or eggetarians. Ovo comes from the Latin word for egg. 
lacto-ovo-vegetarian. a vegetarian who consumes dairy products and eggs but does not eat animal flesh. [lak′tō ōv′ō vej′əter′ē·ən]. a person whose diet consists primarily of foods of vegetable origin but also includes some animal products, such as eggs (ovo), milk, and cheese (lacto), but no meat, fish, or poultry. Also called ovo-lacto-vegetarian.
The word itself can be used as either a noun, as in That person is a vegetarian , or an adjective used to describe the diet, or way of eating, as in, That person follows a vegetarian diet.. Lacto-vegetarian is sometimes used to describe a vegetarian who does not eat eggs, but does eat dairy products. Many Hindu vegetarians are lacto-vegetarians who avoid eggs for religious reasons while continuing to eat dairy. Ovo-vegetarian refers to people who do not eat meat or dairy products but do eat eggs. Some people are ovo-vegetarians because they are lactose-intolerant. See also: 1  Types of vegetarians.
Ovo-lacto vegetarianism. An ovo-lacto vegetarian (or lacto-ovo vegetarian) is a vegetarian who does not eat any meat, fish, or poultry. A typical ovo-lacto vegetarian diet includes fruits, vegetables, grains, legumes, nuts, seeds, dairy, and egg products. 
Definition: Ovo-vegetarian refers to people who do not eat meat or dairy products but do eat eggs. Many people are ovo-vegetarians because they are lactose-intolerant. The prefix ovo comes from the Latin word for egg. 
1 Lacto-ovo-vegetarians eat both dairy products and eggs; this is the most common type of vegetarian diet. 2  Lacto-vegetarians eat dairy products but avoid eggs. 3  Vegans do not eat dairy products, eggs, or any other products which are derived from animals. There are different types of vegetarian: 1 
The simplest definition of vegetarianism is a diet free of meat, fish, and fowl flesh. But eating habits of vegetarians cover a wide spectrum. At one end are lacto-ovo vegetarians, who avoid animal flesh but eat eggs and milk products. At the other end are vegans, who forgo eating (and often wearing) all animal-based products, including honey.
There are varieties of the diet as well: an ovo-vegetarian diet includes eggs but not dairy products, a lacto-vegetarian diet includes dairy products but not eggs, and an ovo-lacto vegetarian diet includes both eggs and dairy products. A vegan diet excludes all animal products, including eggs, dairy, beeswax and honey. Lacto-ovo vegetarians that include dairy products can still obtain calcium from dairy sources like milk, yogurt, and cheese. Non-dairy milks that are fortified with calcium, such as soymilk and almond milk can also contribute a significant amount of calcium in the diet.