average. • An average is a measure used to find the location of. the middle (central tendency) of a data set. • Mean, median and mode are all types of averages. • Often the word average refers to the mean. to calculate the mean. 1. Add up all the values. 2. Divide by the number of values
Just remember the following: mean: regular meaning of average median: middle value mode: most often. (In the above, I've used the term average rather casually. The technical definition of average is the arithmetic mean: adding up the values and then dividing by the number of values. The mean is the average you're used to, where you add up all the numbers and then divide by the number of numbers. The median is the middle value in the list of numbers. To find the median, your numbers have to be listed in numerical order, so you may have to rewrite your list first.
By Deb Russell. Definition: This is a term that is used, mis-used and often over used. Typically, many individuals refer to average when they really mean the arithmetic average (mean). Average can mean the mean, the median and the mode, it can refer to a geometric mean and weighted averages. Although most people use the term average for this type of calcuation: Four tests results: 15, 18, 22, 20. Divide 75 by 4: 18.75. The 'Mean' (Average) is 18.75. (Often rounded to 19). The truth of the matter is that the above calculation is considered the arithmetic mean, or often referred to as the mean average.
Average cost pricing is the averaged amount or its quantity as the arithmetic average. Total sum of the data given to total number of data given is defined as average or mean. For average cost pricing we have the cost of the items and the total number of cost given. Average cost pricing deals with the summation or arithmetic cost and the number of quantity we have formula for the average cost for number of items given. This is given below by the help of formula below we calculate average cost. The symbol ∑ , called sigma notation represented the summation.
Arithmetic Mean Definition: Arithmetic mean is commonly called as average.Mean or Average is defined as the sum of all the given elements divided by the total number of elements. Mean = sum of elements / number of elements = a1+a2+a3+.....+an/n. 
Full Definition of AVERAGE. 1. a: a single value (as a mean, mode, or median) that summarizes or represents the general significance of a set of unequal values b: mean 1b. 2. a: an estimation of or approximation to an arithmetic mean. average, mean, median, norm mean something that represents a middle point. average is the quotient obtained by dividing the sum total of a set of figures by the number of figures.
Definition: Average refers to the sum of numbers divided by n. Also called the mean average. Sums of data divided by the number of items in the data will give the mean average. The mean average is used quite regularly to determine final math marks over a term or semester. Averages are often used in sports: batting averages which means number of hits to number of times at bat. Gas mileage is determined by using averages. Also Known As: Central tendancy
Average is the number that is found by dividing the sum of data by the number of items in the data set. 