When you hear the word ginger, you probably think of the flavorful root used as a spice in many varieties of Asian cuisine. Hawaii is unique among the 50 U.S. states in that commercial production of ginger root takes place there. Hawaii does not produce enough ginger to meet U.S. demand, however.
Do not eat ornamental gingers. The common edible ginger, Zingiber officinale, has the flavor we are looking for when a recipe calls for ginger. Rhizomes purchased at the supermarket as fresh ginger can be planted just below the soil surface of a shady, well-prepared bed in early summer and will grow here.
Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of heather vescent. Ginger root (Zingiber officinale) is actually not a root, but a rhizome, or underground stem. The rhizome is the part that can be eaten, used in food or teas, dried and ground to create powdered ginger and used to create ginger oils and extracts.
Overview. Not the spice ginger, the variegated ginger has beautifully striped green and yellow foliage and underground stems that you can use as a spice ginger substitute. It is native to tropical Asia and is an evergreen herb in regions not affected by frost. All plant parts emit a spicy fragrance when bruised.
Ginger plants produce fragrant leaves and flowers which are sometimes used as ornamental plants. The leaves and flowers are not toxic, but are not commonly eaten. Fresh ginger root can be sliced, grated, or minced to use in cooking, such as stir fries, tea and muffins.
Not the spice ginger, the variegated ginger has beautifully striped green and yellow foliage and underground stems that you can use as a spice ginger substitute. It is native to tropical Asia and is an evergreen herb in regions not affected by frost.
To talk about ginger root when talking about the edible part of the ginger plant is actually incorrect. You eat the rhizomes, and as you can see, rhizomes have roots... Two different things... But I'll keep talking about ginger root anyway, that's what everybody does and you know what I mean.