Per diem is Latin for 'per day' or 'for each day'. Usually it refers to the daily rate of any kind of payment. It may also refer to a specific amount of money that an or … ganization allows an individual to spend per day, to cover living and traveling expenses in connection with work. Hope I helped =3. Latin phrase meaning Per day or for each day.   Also   Per diem can mean on a case-by-case basis. The term per diem is a Latin term meaning per day or … alternatively for each day. It refers to the organisation's allowance for an employee to spend as expenses per day.
Something interesting to note is that, according to Stein, the per-team salary cap has actually decreased, from $178,000 to a now $173,000. With ten players per team, that's an average D-League salary of $17,300. For more, see below:Salaries remain flat: $25,500, $19,000 and $13,000 for the league's three player classifications, which means D-League players are virtually playing for free -- and a modest per diem on the road of $40 compared to $120 in the NBA -- although they do receive housing and insurance benefits.he D-League also employs a per-team salary cap of $173,000 ... with a dollar-for-dollar luxury tax, just like in the NBA, for teams that go over that amount.
The Late, Great Roddy Piper. http://www.kidzworld.com/article/8022-perks-of-the-per-diem. So let's assume that the team is on the road for 41 games a year and that the average is 1.5 days per game. So you are talking 62 days worth of per diem -- $6,572. I really doubt the report that Kyle Korver lived off his per diem. Even assuming that it comes as completely tax free, you are looking at roughly living off $10,000 worth of gross income ($5/hour). 
Marcin Gortat used to give his per diem allowance to one athletic trainer on every road trip for a season. Phoenix Suns' Danny Manning shoots over the top of Philadelphia 76ers' Joe Smith in the first quarter of their game in Phoenix February 24, 1998. But in the NBA, that bond hasn't seemed to deteriorate as the players got richer. Previous Suns stars such as Danny Manning, Jason Kidd, Dan Majerle and Kevin Johnson were known to pass off their per diem cash to athletic trainers or equipment managers.
Many overlook the per diem issued to pro athletes considering their salaries dwarf the norm. But it, too, has been on a steady rise, clearly reflecting the evolution that's in play. Everything has changed, Proski said. Last season, the per diem in the NBA was $124. Next season's amount hasn't been decided, but it will be slightly higher. When Proski broke into the league in 1967 as a trainer with the Chicago Bulls, he recalls an $8 stipend for staff and players. Now you can't get a hot dog for seven or eight bucks, he said. But in the NBA, that bond hasn't seemed to deteriorate as the players got richer. Previous Suns stars such as Danny Manning, Jason Kidd, Dan Majerle and Kevin Johnson were known to pass off their per diem cash to athletic trainers or equipment managers.
At the beginning of a road trip, each player is given an envelope of per diem money. For example if the team is on a five-day-road-trip, each player's envelope is filled with $530 US! The average salary for an NBA player is $5.5 million a year, so it's not like the players need the extra money. Per Diem-How Others Spend it. 1  Antonio Davis-This former NBA big man was making around $9 million a year in his last years in the NBA. 2  Marcus Camby-This Denver Nuggets center gives some of his per diem to younger, less-payed players on his team.
Portland Trail Blazers center Jamaal Magloire spent more than $80 last week for a room service steak at The Westin Tabor Center. But it's hard to complain too much. In 1957, through much negotiating, Boston Celtics guard Bob Cousy, who helped organize the players' union, got the first per diem in the NBA. It was $7. That's for seven days and a prorated day for dinner at $57. Players can use the money as they choose. They can order room service at a ritzy hotel, which could set them back more than $80 for a meal. Or, like Sampson, who figures he pockets half his per diem, they can take to the streets.
Sampson, making $798,112 this season, makes hitting the pavement in an opposing city profitable. NBA players receive $106 per diem on the road for meals and incidentals. When the Nuggets showed up at the airport Monday to begin a five-game trip, each player received an envelope from athletic trainer Jim Gillen containing $799 in crisp bills. That's for seven days and a prorated day for dinner at $57. Players can use the money as they choose. They can order room service at a ritzy hotel, which could set them back more than $80 for a meal. Or, like Sampson, who figures he pockets half his per diem, they can take to the streets.
Per Diem-What It Is. Part of the NBA's collective bargaining agreement, each NBA player receives $106 US for every day they are on the road. It serves as their meal money-roughly $19 for breakfast, $30 for lunch and $57 for dinner. Not a bad deal, considering $106 can easily feed a family of five for a week! The $106 a day is a nice raise from the original per diem. In 1957 the NBA's per diem was $7 a day. Per Diem-How Others Spend it. 1  Antonio Davis-This former NBA big man was making around $9 million a year in his last years in the NBA. 2  Marcus Camby-This Denver Nuggets center gives some of his per diem to younger, less-payed players on his team.