Dermatology is the branch of medicine dealing with the skin, nails, hair and its diseases. It is a specialty with both medical and surgical aspects. A dermatologist treats diseases, in the widest sense, and some cosmetic problems of the skin, scalp, hair, and nails. At the completion of a standard residency in dermatology, many dermatologists are also competent at dermatopathology. Some dermatopathologists qualify to sit for their examinations by completing a residency in dermatology and one in pathology.
A dermatologist is a physician trained to treat diseases and conditions of the skin, on any part of the body. Dermatologists can treat anything from a fungus or bacterial infection of the skin, to various types of cancer. Dermatologists may work in a group with other dermatologists, or work alone, as a solo practitioner. Additionally, dermatologists may work as part of a group of physicians who practice a variety of specialties. Such medical groups are called multi-specialty medical groups.
In order to classify a skin condition, a dermatologist will ask detailed questions on the duration and temporal pattern of skin problems, itching or pain, relations to food intake, sunlight, over-the-counter creams and clothing. Statements and information regarding dietary supplements have not been evaluated or approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Please consult your healthcare provider before beginning any course of supplementation or treatment. Copyright © 2005-2013 by National Skin Care Institute.
A dermatologist is a physician that specializes in treating and diagnosing the skin. From start to finish, including undergraduate coursework, the process can take a minimum of 11 years. This allows you to general doctoral training before moving onto your dermatology specialty area. 
A dermatologist is...... a skin care doctor  A dermatologist is a medical physician who specializes in treating  skin conditions, disorders and diseases. A dermatologist is … one doctor that specializes in the management  and treatment of patient's with diseases of the skin. 3 people found this useful. 
Dermatology is a medical and surgical field specializing in the treatment of skin, hair, and nails and how they relate to your body as a whole. Dermatologist will diagnose and treat specific conditions of the skin and also use the skin as a map to see what's happening inside the body. Dermatologists diagnose and treat all aspects of healthy and diseased skin in adults and children including conditions such as skin cancer, melanomas, moles, dermatitis, acne, hair loss, scars, sexually transmitted diseases and the skin changes associated with aging..
The need for dermatology training in the world is acute-approximately 3 billion people living in more than 100 countries lack basic care for their skin diseases. For the most part, skin diseases in the world can be diagnosed and effectively treated by simple and inexpensive means. Statements and information regarding dietary supplements have not been evaluated or approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Please consult your healthcare provider before beginning any course of supplementation or treatment. Copyright © 2005-2013 by National Skin Care Institute.
Knowledge center. Dermatologists are specially trained doctors who diagnose and treat conditions of the skin, hair, nails and mucous membranes, such as the eyelids and the lining of the mouth. They see patients at every stage of life, from newborn infants to the elderly. Dermatologist qualifications 1,8. To become a dermatologist in the US, candidates have to complete at least four separate steps. First and foremost, they must earn a college degree and go on to graduate from medical school, either becoming a medical doctor (MD) or doctor of osteopathic medicine (DO).
Dermatologists specialize in treating disorders of the skin, nails, hair and mucous membranes. The skin is the largest organ of the body, covering a total area or around 20 square feet. 6 It is the first line of defense against bacteria and injury, and often reflects the overall health of the body. Dermatologist qualifications 1,8. To become a dermatologist in the US, candidates have to complete at least four separate steps. First and foremost, they must earn a college degree and go on to graduate from medical school, either becoming a medical doctor (MD) or doctor of osteopathic medicine (DO).