With the exception of Ceylon Cinnamon, Cassia, Saigon and Korintje Cinnamon are also classified under the Cassia Cinnamon category because they are very similar to each other with only slight variations in color, taste, shape and Coumarin content. Ceylon Cinnamon has one advantage over all other types of Cinnamon. It has ultra low coumarin level s. Coumarin in high doses causes liver failure, so for people who take Cinnamon on a daily basis,Ceylon Cinnamon is the preferred choice. Click here to read the research on Cassia Cinnamon and Coumarin.
Cinnamon Facts: Types of Cinnamon. Although there are four main varieties of cinnamon, Ceylon cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylanicum), and Cassia cinnamon (Cinnamomum cassia) are the most popular. Cinnamon health benefits don't seem to be significantly different from one type to another. Ceylon cinnamon is sometimes called true c
It is also known as 'Ceylon cinnamon,' a reference to its native country of Sri Lanka (which was formerly known as Ceylon). Today, Ceylon cinnamon is commonly grown in Sri Lanka, India (particularly in the southern state of Kerala), Bangladesh, Brazil, Vietnam and Madagascar, amongst other countries. Ceylon cinnamon has a delicate, nuanced flavor that works well in sweet and savory foods and drinks. Definition: Cinnamon is a spice that can be purchased in its ground / powdered form or in the form of sticks (or 'quills'). Cinnamon has a fascinating history, which includes its role in war, its use as currency and its use as an aphrodisiac.
All other Cinnamon looks like the Cassia Cinnamon sticks (above left) and tends to be hard, hollow and have only one rolled layer. Notice the color difference. Ceylon Cinnamon is lighter in color while other Cinnamon tends to be darker in color. There are hundreds of types of Cinnamon. But only 4 types or varieties of Cinnamon are used for commercial purposes. These are Ceylon Cinnamon, Cassia Cinnamon, Saigon Cinnamon and Korintje Cinnamon. Ceylon Cinnamon has one advantage over all other types of Cinnamon. It has ultra low coumarin level s. Coumarin in high doses causes liver failure, so for people who take Cinnamon on a daily basis,Ceylon Cinnamon is the preferred choice. Click here to read the research on Cassia Cinnamon and Coumarin.
Cinnamon. Cinnamon is made from the ground bark of over 200 plant varieties, but only a few are commercially cultivated today. The bark is harvested from shrubs or trees, dried in sticks called quills, and usually ground into a powder. Ceylon cinnamon. Ceylon (Sri Lanka) – Ceylon or true cinnamon (cinnamomum verum, also C. zeylanicum, 2). Ceylon cinnamon is the original cinnamon, and is still the stuff labeled ‘cinnamon’ at the market in Mexico, Great Britain, and other places.
Due to its demand, cinnamon became one of the first commodities traded regularly between the Near East and Europe. Ceylon cinnamon is produced in Sri Lanka, India, Madagascar, Brazil and the Caribbean, while cassia is mainly produced in China, Vietnam and Indonesia. Cinnamon is available in either its whole quill form (cinnamon sticks) or as ground powder. All types of cinnamon belong to the same family of plants, called the Lauraceae family. In fact, there are more cinnamon species in this plant family (an estimated 2,000-2,500 total) than any other plant species.
The quality of cinnamon depends, among other factors, on the region where it is grown. Sri Lankan cinnamon and cinnamon from the Seychelles Island are considered to be the best. In India, it is grown on the West coasts. At Anjarakkandi, Cannanore district of Kerala, there is a 248-acre Randa Tarra cinnamon plantation-one of the biggest and perhaps the oldest plantation in Asia.
Cassia cinnamon, the less expensive variety, is the most common cinnamon sold in supermarkets in North America. This variety grows on small trees in India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Brazil, Vietnam, and Egypt. It has a darker color and the quills are harder. Although there are four main varieties of cinnamon, Ceylon cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylanicum), and Cassia cinnamon (Cinnamomum cassia) are the most popular. Cinnamon health benefits don't seem to be significantly different from one type to another. Ceylon cinnamon is sometimes called true cinnamon
The two main varieties of cinnamon are cinnamomum cassia and cinnamomum zeylanicum, grown widely in Sri Lanka, India, Java, Sumatra, the West Indies, Brazil, Vietnam and Madagascar. Its inner bark is widely used as a spice and there are as many as 250 different varieties are found across the globe. 