Long distance paths. Many walkers find Kirkby Stephen and the Upper Eden Valley for the first time on a Long Distance Trail and return once they have discovered this peaceful countryside with so much to offer the walker. Our most popular trail is the Coast to Coast. There are four other Long Distance Trails that pass through Kirkby Stephen, the Westmorland Heritage Walk, Yorkshire Dale Centurion Walk, Yoredale Way and The Eden Way.
58 km / 36 miles. Bath NES, Somers, S Glos. The 'Limestone Link' is a route of 36 miles joining the limestone of the Cotswolds to that of the Mendip Hills. It is a connecting route between the Cotswold Way at Cold Ashton and the West Mendip Way at Shipham. Between the two, the route passes through the valleys and villages south of Bath
Limestone Way. This Peak District path is a long-distance walk in miniature: it has all the villages and dramatic scenery one would expect on a much longer trail. The Limestone Way is 49¼ miles from Rocester to Castleton, plus two spurs, one of 2¾ to Ashbourne, and another of 2¼ miles to Matlock, making the Limestone Way a total of 54¼ miles.
The Howgills and Limestone Trail is 76 miles long and this self-guided holiday splits the walk into 7 daily stages of approximately 9 - 12 miles each day. Kirkby Stephen is a stop on the scenic Settle to Carlisle line. There are trains from London Euston via Carlisle or from London Kings Cross and Manchester via Settle and Leeds. The journey time (to Kirkby Stepen) from London is approximately 5½ hours and from Manchester is 3 hours.
The Howgills and Limestone Trail. This 76 mile long-distance walk from Kirkby Stephen to Settle takes you through picturesque and, in parts, demanding area of Cumbria and North Yorkshire-with a short diversion into Lancashire. It draws its inspiration from Alfred Wainwright's Walks in Limestone Country and Walks in the Howgill Fells. This is a long-distance footpath of 247miles (398 km), of which 53miles are within Eden including parts of the Eden Valley and Pennines. The footpath is based upon a circular walk which Alfred Wainwright undertook in 1938, setting off from Settle to Hadrian's Wall and back.
Route Map. The Howgills and Limestone Trail is a 76 mile long-distance walk from Kirkby Stephen to Settle through this picturesque and, in parts, demanding area of Cumbria and North Yorkshire – with a short diversion into Lancashire.
Pennine Way National Trail. Britain's most challenging long distance route follows the Pennine mountain range for 268miles (429km) from Edale in the Peak District to Kirk Yetholm in the Scottish Borders. You can walk short sections of the route in Eden with walks from Garrigill and Dufton. This is a long-distance footpath of 247miles (398 km), of which 53miles are within Eden including parts of the Eden Valley and Pennines. The footpath is based upon a circular walk which Alfred Wainwright undertook in 1938, setting off from Settle to Hadrian's Wall and back.
Also by David & Heather Pitt, is a new 76-mile long-distance walk from Kirkby Stephen to Settle, the Howgill and Limestone Trail. The pictorial guide follows a route through a picturesque and, in parts, demanding area of Cumbria and North Yorkshire – with a short diversion into Lancashire. There are four other Long Distance Trails that pass through Kirkby Stephen, the Westmorland Heritage Walk, Yorkshire Dale Centurion Walk, Yoredale Way and The Eden Way.