pacifier-device used for an infant to suck or bite on. baby's dummy, teething ring, comforter. device-an instrumentality invented for a particular purpose; the device is small enough to wear on your wrist; a device intended to conserve water. Translations. 
1 Sucking on a pacifier at nap time and bedtime might reduce the risk of SIDS. 2  If you're breast-feeding, wait to offer a pacifier until your baby is 3 to 4 weeks old and you've settled into an effective nursing routine. 3  Pacifiers are disposable. 4  When it's time to stop using pacifiers, you can throw them away. 1 A pacifier might help reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). 2  Sucking on a pacifier at nap time and bedtime might reduce the risk of SIDS. 3  If you're breast-feeding, wait to offer a pacifier until your baby is 3 to 4 weeks old and you've settled into an effective nursing routine. 4
Pacifier. A pacifier, dummy, binky, or soother is a rubber, plastic, or silicone nipple given to an infant or other young child to suck upon. In its standard appearance it has a teat, mouth shield, and handle. The mouth shield and/or the handle is large enough to avoid the danger of the child choking on it or swallowing it. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pacifier (Noun). One who pacifies. pacifier (Noun). A rubber or plastic device imitating a nipple that goes into a babyu2019s mouth, used to calm and quiet the baby.
Example sentences. 1  It is best to avoid bottles and pacifiers until your baby is 4 to 6 weeks old and has learned how to breastfeed well. 2  If the parents-to-be have specified in the baby registry a brand or shape of bottles, nipples, and pacifiers, these items may be a safe choice for a baby shower gift. Example sentences. 1  Oda Nobunaga, the leading warlord and the first of the three pacifiers and unifiers of Japan, was opposed to Buddhism. 2  This story is about the rise and the fall of the three unifier and pacifier of Japan towards the end of the 16th century after generations of feudal wars of powerful local rulers.
The decision to use a pacifier — or not — is up to you. Consider the do's and don'ts of giving your baby a pacifier, and how to help him or her break the habit. Most babies have a strong sucking reflex. Some babies even suck their thumbs or fingers before they're born. 1 A pacifier might help reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). 2  Sucking on a pacifier at nap time and bedtime might reduce the risk of SIDS. 3  If you're breast-feeding, wait to offer a pacifier until your baby is 3 to 4 weeks old and you've settled into an effective nursing routine. 4  Pacifiers are disposable.
As you are deciding on what is best for your infant, here are some possible benefits and drawbacks of pacifier use. Possible benefits of a pacifier: Pacifiers can soothe a crying infant. Reduced crying can help a parent's frayed nerves. An orthodontic design is meant to imitate a mother's nipple and to accommodate the baby's tongue thrust — the motion that strips milk from the mother's breast. The nipple tip is typically flatter and square-shaped. Nonorthodontic pacifiers are the older style.
However, if the pacifier is used for less than around three years, it does not appear to lead to long-term damage. Similarly, there appears to be no strong evidence that using a pacifier delays speech development by preventing babies from practicing their speaking skills. Passman and Halonen contended that the widespread occurrence of attachments to pacifiers as well as their importance as security objects should reassure parents that they are a normal part of development for a majority of infants.
Medical Definition of PACIFIER. 1. : a usually nipple-shaped device for babies to suck or bite on. 2. : tranquilizer. 
Adult-sized pacifiers, consisting of a standard baby pacifier guard but a larger, wider nipple, are used by some members of the Adult Baby community. The nipples are often referred to as NUK5s, after the NUK brand of baby pacifiers manufactured by the German company MAPA GmbH. Passman and Halonen contended that the widespread occurrence of attachments to pacifiers as well as their importance as security objects should reassure parents that they are a normal part of development for a majority of infants.
Binky (with a y) was first used in about 1935 as a trademarked brand name for pacifiers and other baby products manufactured by the Binky Baby Products Company of New York. The brand name is currently owned by Playtex Products, LLC as a trademark in the U.S. (and a number of other countries). Passman and Halonen contended that the widespread occurrence of attachments to pacifiers as well as their importance as security objects should reassure parents that they are a normal part of development for a majority of infants.