Report Abuse. As the height above sea level increases the boiling point of water decreases in direct proportion. It is no longer 100 degrees Celsius but a value below that. At high altitudes, say near the summit of Everest it is impossible to brew ordinary tea in an open vessel as the water does not get hot enough. However, an egg will COOK in its shell at high altitude but will take longer as the temperature is lower. Report Abuse. Higher the altitude, lower the air pressure. Which means, the water boils at a temperature lower than the Sea Level. So, it takes an eternity for the egg to boil on the Alps.
Because water boils at a lower temperature at altitude, things cooked by boiling will take longer. The principle is evident in the opposite case when using a pressure cooker: because the pressure inside the cooker is higher, things that cook by boiling will cook much faster. Why does it take longer to cook potatoes high up in the mountains than it does to cook potatoes at sea level? The temperature and the pressure are connected, so on low altitudes, like on the sea level the pressure is approximately around 980 hectopascals, so the water boils faster.
The lower the pressure, the lower the boiling point. At high altitudes, the pressure is lower than at sea level, so the water boils at a lower temperature, and it takes longer to get the same amount of heat into the egg as it would have had at sea level. papastolte · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
And air pressure decreases as you get higher up. As pressure decreases, so does the boiling point. T … his means that the water will start to boil faster on the mountain, but it will boil at a lower temperature. At a lower temperature, food takes longer to cook. Why does it take longer to cook potatoes high up in the mountains than it does to cook potatoes at sea level? The temperature and the pressure are connected, so on low altitudes, like on the sea level the pressure is approximately around 980 hectopascals, so the water boils faster.
It is because water cannot exceed boiling point. Since water boils at lower temperature at higher altitudes (due to lower atmospheric pressure), it's like cooking something at 200 degrees, rather than 212 degrees...it will take longer. Taylor · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. This decrease in... show more Mountain climbers find that it takes longer to cook food in boiling water on top of a mountain than at its base. Explain why, in terms of the definition of boiling point I understand that as you increase in height you decrease in pressure because you are moving further away from sea level.
The boiling point of any liquid is dependent upon the pressure of  the atmosphere above the liquid therefore water boils at a lower  temperature at higher altitudes. Because … of this, the pasta takes  longer to cook in the cooler boiling water. found this useful. Why does it take longer to cook potatoes high up in the mountains than it does to cook potatoes at sea level? The temperature and the pressure are connected, so on low altitudes, like on the sea level the pressure is approximately around 980 hectopascals, so the water boils faster.
Allow longer cooking times at high altitudes. Do not remove the lid from the slow cooker; it can take 20 minutes or longer for the lost steam and heat to be regained. It may be helpful to place aluminum foil on top of the foods being cooked in a slow cooker and under the lid. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Because, as we go to higher altitudes, the boiling temperature of water decreases. It therefore takes longer, not to boil the water (that will be quicker at the lower temp.), but for the heat of the lower temperature to get through the item being boiled. At a 7,000 foot elevation, water would boil at about 198º F. Because the water is boiling at a lower temperature, it would take longer to cook food by boiling.
The reduced air  pressure lowers th … e temperature at which water boils in an open  container. So, water actually boils faster at higher altitudes, but  it takes longer to cook foods because the water boils at a lower  temperature. This lower temperature slows down the physical and  chemical changes that take place when foods are cooked in water. The boiling point of any liquid is dependent upon the pressure of  the atmosphere above the liquid therefore water boils at a lower  temperature at higher altitudes. Because … of this, the pasta takes  longer to cook in the cooler boiling water. found this useful.