In philosophical ethics, the term  naturalistic fallacy  was introduced by British philosopher G. E. Moore in his 1903 book Principia Ethica. Moore argues it would be fallacious to explain that which is good reductively in terms of natural properties such as pleasant or desirable. The naturalistic fallacy is the assumption that because the words 'good' and, say, 'pleasant' necessarily describe the same objects, they must attribute the same quality to them. — Arthur N. Prior, Logic And The Basis Of Ethics.
The term naturalistic fallacy is sometimes used to describe the deduction of an ought from an is (the Is–ought problem). In using his categorical imperative Kant deduced that experience was necessary for their application. The naturalistic fallacy is the assumption that because the words 'good' and, say, 'pleasant' necessarily describe the same objects, they must attribute the same quality to them. — Arthur N. Prior, Logic And The Basis Of Ethics.
Related uses Edit. Many people use the phrase naturalistic fallacy to characterise inferences of the form This behaviour is natural; therefore, this behaviour is morally acceptable or This behaviour is unnatural; therefore, this behaviour is morally unacceptable. 
The naturalistic fallacy is the idea that what is found in nature is good. It was the basis for Social Darwinism, the belief that helping the poor and sick would get in the way of evolution, which depends on the survival of the fittest. The naturalistic fallacy is the assumption that because the words 'good' and, say, 'pleasant' necessarily describe the same objects, they must attribute the same quality to them. — Arthur N. Prior, Logic And The Basis Of Ethics.
Definition of NATURALISTIC FALLACY. : the process of defining ethical terms (as the good) in nonethical descriptive terms (as happiness, pleasure, and utility). ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.
Lesson Summary. A naturalistic fallacy is an argument that derives what ought to be from what is. In other words, it's an argument that moves from facts (what is) to value judgments (what ought to be). This particular example involves an appeal to nature fallacy, or an argument that starts with facts about nature and moves to a moral statement that goes beyond the facts. Some philosophical definitions of the naturalistic fallacy include an appeal to nature, while others see the two as distinct fallacies.
Naturalistic fallacy. In philosophical ethics, the term naturalistic fallacy was introduced by British philosopher G. E. Moore in his 1903 book Principia Ethica. Moore argues it would be fallacious to explain that which is good reductively, in terms of natural properties such as pleasant or desirable. The naturalistic fallacy is close to but not identical with the fallacious appeal to nature, the claim that what is natural is inherently good or right, and that what is unnatural is inherently bad or wrong.
Alternatively, the phrase naturalistic fallacy is used to refer to the claim that what is natural is inherently good or right, and that what is unnatural is bad or wrong. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naturalisti... mallimalar_2000 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: The above answerers certainly do cut and paste wikipedia articles well; but I doubt any of them know what the term means. You asked for an explanation in simple terms -- here goes... The Naturalistic fallacy is an attempt to derive a moral ought from an empirical is..
A naturalistic fallacy is or inferring how the world ought to be from the way it is or was in the past. Hume's law (sometimes called Hume's Guillotine), addressing what is referred to as the is-ought problem, states that you can't derive an ought from an is. The law is also a rebuttal of the Moralistic fallacy.