Such bacteria are called resident flora, or the microbiome. Many resident flora are actually helpful to people—for example by helping them digest food or by preventing the growth of other, more dangerous bacteria. Only a few kinds of bacteria cause disease. They are called pathogens. Sometimes bacteria that normally reside harmlessly in the body cause disease. Bacteria can cause disease by producing harmful substances (toxins), invading tissues, or doing both. 
The vast majority of the bacteria in the body are rendered harmless by the protective effects of the immune system, and some are beneficial. However, several species of bacteria are pathogenic and cause infectious diseases, including cholera, syphilis, anthrax, leprosy, and bubonic plague. The word bacteria is the plural of the New Latin bacterium, which is the latinisation of the Greek βακτήριον (bakterion), the diminutive of βακτηρία (bakteria), meaning staff, cane, because the first ones to be discovered were rod-shaped.
Infectious diseases arranged by name. There are 216 entries in this list, though some entries such as 'Common cold' include a number of distinct pathogens. 1  Chin J. B., ed. 
Although the vast majority of bacteria are harmless to humans, some do cause serious infections and diseases. Below are some of the names of common bacteria, including their shape and function. 1. Staphylococcus aureus-Staphylococcus aureus is a Gram-positive coccus (rounded shape) that is anaerobic. Staphylococcus aureus is also known as the golden cluster seed, golden staph and the seed gold. Staphylococcus bacteria are present in the nasal passages of humans and can be found on the skin and hair. It is anaerobic. The most common infection that these bacteria cause is Listeriosis. Symptoms of this infection are headaches, nausea and vomiting; however, if the infection spreads to the nervous system, it can cause meningitis.
The most severe type of bacterial skin infection is necrotizing fasciitis, commonly known as flesh-eating bacteria disease. With this life-threatening infection, the skin and deep underlying tissues are not eaten by the bacteria. 
Facts and Frequently Asked Questions. Legionellosis is a common name for one of the several illnesses caused by Legionnaires' disease bacteria (LDB). Legionnaires' disease is an infection of the lungs that is a form of pneumonia. A person can develop Legionnaires' disease by inhaling water mist contaminated with LDB. LDB are widely present at low levels in the environment: in lakes, streams, and ponds.
Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningitis. 
Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by several kinds of bacteria. Some of these bacteria also cause infections such as strep throat and impetigo. Usually the infections caused by these bacteria are mild. But in rare cases they can cause a more dangerous infection. Necrotizing fasciitis is an infection caused by bacteria. It can destroy skin, fat, and the tissue covering the muscles within a very short time. The disease sometimes is called flesh-eating bacteria. When it occurs on the genitals, it is called Fournier gangrene. Necrotizing fasciitis is very rare but serious.
In general bacteria that cause disease are called pathogenic bacteria. The ones that do not cause disease are often referred to as healthy bacteria or good bacteria See Re … lated Links for a good discussion on types of bacteria. 
A. Legionnaires' disease most often is caused by inhaling water contaminated with rod-shaped bacteria called Legionella pneumophila. There are over 30 different species of Legionella, many of which can cause disease. Legionella pneumophila is the most common species that causes disease. Legionnaires' disease is an infection of the lungs that is a form of pneumonia. A person can develop Legionnaires' disease by inhaling water mist contaminated with LDB. LDB are widely present at low levels in the environment: in lakes, streams, and ponds.