Han-u (한우 in Korean, also Hanu, Hanwoo, or Korean native cattle) refers to a breed of cattle raised in Korea, Bos taurus coreanae, which may be a hybrid derived from the cross-breeding of (Bos taurus) and (Bos indicus). Since Koreans consider Han-u beef a cultural icon and one of the top-quality beefs of the world, it is used in traditional foods, popular holiday dishes, or as a special-day gift. The county of Hoengseong is best known for its Han-u cattle, where the environment is well-suited for cattle farming.
Beef cattle are cattle raised for meat production (as distinguished from dairy cattle, used for milk production). The meat of adult cattle is known as beef. There are three main stages in beef production: cow-calf operations, backgrounding, and feedlot operations. When raised in a feedlot, cattle are known as feeder cattle. Many such feeder cattle are born in cow-calf operations specifically designed to produce beef calves. While the principal use of beef cattle is meat production, other uses include leather, and products used in shampoo and cosmetics. A breed of cattle indigenous to the Pinz Valley, near Salzburg, Austria. Reared and used as dairy cattle in Europe although they are well adapted to drier landscapes of there USA, Australia and Southern Africa where they are kept for beef production or dual purposes.
DUBLIN, Aug. 28, 2015 /PRNewswire/ --. Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/wt8rsp/research_report) has announced the addition of the Research Report on China's Beef Cattle Farming Industry and Beef Market, 2010-2019 report to their offering. Before China's reform and opening-up, cattle had been mainly kept for draft purpose. In the early 1990s, economic reform aroused farmers' enthusiasm, which promoted the rapid development of beef cattle industry, beef cattle slaughtering and beef processing industry. In China, free-range farming rather than intensive one is adopted to keep cattle.
Cattle is a word to describe animals which are mammals and belong to the genus Bos. Within the general term of cattle are cows, bulls, oxen, heifers, steers, bullocks and calves. Cattle are the most common type of large domesticated hoofed animals. They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae. Cattle are large grass-eating mammals with two-toed or cloven hooves and a four-chambered stomach. The word cattle is used for some wild animals as well as for domesticated cattle. Wild cattle include the Water Buffalo from South East Asia, the Musk Ox and Yak from Central Asia, the Bison of North America and Europe and the African Buffalo.
I have tasted Japan's Wagyu beef and I've seen how the cattle are treated like humans. At a small farm two hours from Seoul, there are no cows being massaged or classical music playing to relax the animals, but there is a definite whiff of beer in the air. Also the beef from Park's cattle is not cheap. In South Korea, local beef is around three times the price of U.S. beef imports. But many believe the taste is worth the expense.
History of beef cattle in Japan. Historians record that cattle, pigs and chickens were introduced to Japan between the years 500BC and 300AD as domestic animals from the Asian continent by early immigrants (McKay et al ., 2008). Sadly, the era in which every family fed a few cattle is passing. The average number of beef cattle in 2013 is 43, but many have more than 200 head each. Japan had 53,000 breeders of cows in February 2013. This figure had dropped after the foot-and-mouth outbreak and has slipped around 5% a year since then.
Cattle usually stay together in groups called herds. One male, called a bull will usually have a number of cows in a herd as his harem. The cows usually give birth to one calf a year, though twins are also known to be born. The word cattle is used for some wild animals as well as for domesticated cattle. Wild cattle include the Water Buffalo from South East Asia, the Musk Ox and Yak from Central Asia, the Bison of North America and Europe and the African Buffalo.
Farming beef cattle. Beef cattle are usually kept in either: ‘ 1 extensive’ grazing-based systems where they are mainly kept in fields and may be housed for part of the year. ‘ 2 intensive’ indoor systems where, in some cases, they may be housed throughout their lives. 