Dermatitis is an inflammation of the skin. Contact dermatitis is a localized rash or irritation of the skin caused by contact with a substance that is foreign to the body.
1 Contact dermatitis can be caused by noxious, irritating substances or substances to which the patient has developed a skin allergy. 2  Patients with contact dermatitis complain of itching and burning at the site of a red, elevated, crusty, weepy, scaly rash. Contact dermatitis is a rash that occurs at the site of exposure to a substance that inflames the skin.
Introduction. Contact dermatitis is inflammation of the skin that occurs when you come into contact with a particular substance. It can be caused by: 1  an irritant – a substance that directly damages the outer layer of skin. 2  an allergen – a substance that causes the immune system to respond in a way that affects the skin. Contact dermatitis is a type of eczema that causes the skin to become red, blistered, dry, scaly and cracked. This reaction will usually occur with a few hours or days of exposure to an irritant or allergen. Symptoms can affect any part of the body, but most commonly affect the hands and face.
Contact dermatitis facts. 1  Contact dermatitis is a rash that occurs at the site of exposure to a substance capable of producing an allegic or irritant skin response. Contact dermatitis is a rash that occurs at the site of exposure to a substance that inflames the skin.
Contact dermatitis is a rash caused by your skin reacting to a substance it has come into contact with. You may need patch testing to identify the causative substance. A steroid cream or ointment will usually clear the rash. However, the long-term treatment is to avoid contact with the causative substance. 
Contact dermatitis is an inflammation of the skin caused by direct contact with an irritant or allergen. This common skin condition is marked by itching, inflammation, redness and blistering, sometimes resembling a burn. Contact dermatitis itself is not dangerous, and it is not contagious. 
Contact dermatitis is a type of skin inflammation (dermatitis). It results from exposure to allergens (allergic contact dermatitis) or irritants (irritant contact dermatitis). 
Contact dermatitis is a red, itchy rash caused by a substance that comes into contact with your skin. The rash isn't contagious or life-threatening, but it can be very uncomfortable. Possible causes include soaps, cosmetics, fragrances, jewelry, and plants, such as poison ivy or poison oak. To treat contact dermatitis successfully, you need to identify and avoid the cause of your reaction. If you can avoid the offending substance, the rash usually clears up in two to four weeks. You can try soothing your skin with cool, wet compresses, anti-itch creams and other self-care steps. 1  Symptoms.
Contact dermatitis is a reaction that can occur when the skin comes in contact with certain substances, which can cause skin inflammation. Irritants are substances that cause burning, itching or redness. 
Contact dermatitis typically causes a pink or red itchy rash. Pinpointing the exact cause of contact dermatitis can be difficult. Allergic contact dermatitis is a skin allergy to something that touches the skin, even if only briefly. An example of allergic contact dermatitis is poison ivy. Irritant contact dermatitis is caused when a harsh substance aggravates the skin by repeatedly contacting it. The most common example of irritant dermatitis is dry, damaged skin due to over-washing of the hands. In this case, the irritant is the water that is drying out and damaging the skin with repeated exposure.