From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Tinea corporis (also known as ringworm, tinea circinata, and tinea glabrosa) is a superficial fungal infection (dermatophytosis) of the arms and legs, especially on glabrous skin; however, it may occur on any part of the body. Contents.
Definition of Ringworm. Ringworm is a common infection of the skin and nails that is caused by fungus. The infection is called “ringworm” because it can cause an itchy, red, circular rash. Ringworm is also called “tinea” or “dermatophytosis.” The different types of ringworm are usually named for the location of the infection on the body. Areas of the body that can be affected by ringworm include:
Tinea corporis is a skin infection due to fungi. It is also called ringworm of the body. Related skin fungus infections may be found: 1  On the scalp. 2  In a man's beard. 3  In the groin (jock itch). 4  Between the toes. 5  Other places on the skin. Tinea corporis is caused by mold-like fungi called dermatophytes. Tinea corporis is common in children but can occur in people of all ages. Fungi do well in warm, moist areas. A tinea infection is more likely if you: 1  Have wet skin for a long time (such as from sweating)
Sources. Tinea (commonly called “ringworm”) spreads easily between people and animals. Tinea can also spread from one part of the body to another (for example, a patient with tinea pedis can go on to develop tinea cruris). Humans and animals can also be non-symptomatic carriers and can spread tinea to others. 
Tinea corporis is a superficial dermatophyte infection characterized by either inflammatory or noninflammatory lesions on the glabrous skin (ie, skin regions other than the scalp, groin, palms, and soles). Tinea corporis is a superficial dermatophyte infection characterized by either inflammatory or noninflammatory lesions on the glabrous skin (ie, skin regions except
Types of ringworm: tinea corporis and tinea cruris. Tinea corporis: When fungus affects the skin of the body, it often produces the round spots of classic ringworm. Sometimes, these spots have an active outer border as they slowly grow and advance. Sometimes, scaling, crusting, raised areas, or even blister-like lesions can appear, particularly in the active border
Tinea cruris: Tinea of the groin (jock itch) tends to have a reddish-brown color and extends from the folds of the groin down onto one or both thighs. Other conditions that can mimic tinea cruris include yeast infections, psoriasis, and intertrigo, a chafing rash that results from the skin rubbing against the skin. Tinea corporis: When fungus affects the skin of the body, it often produces the round spots of classic ringworm. Sometimes, these spots have an active outer border as they slowly grow and advance.
The fungi attack skin, nails, and hair, where keratin is the major structural protein, leading to a wide variety of disease states. The major types of dermatophyte infections include: involvement of the scalp (tinea capitis), feet (tinea pedis), groin (tinea cruris), and other body surfaces (tinea corporis). These are typically superficial, involving the epidermis.
Tinea infections are named for the part of the body they infect. Tinea corporis is a fungal infection of the skin on the body. (Corporis is the Latin word for body.) If you have this infection, you may see small, red spots that grow into large rings almost anywhere on your arms, legs or chest. The rash may also itch. 