However, burning fossil fuels does add new carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, and has increased its concentration by more than 35 per cent since the Industrial Revolution, from the long term range of 260-280 parts per million (ppm) to the present value of over 380 ppm. There is a natural amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that the carbon cycle moves around. This is enough, with the other greenhouse gases, to keep the ea … rth warm. Burning fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide that has been out of the picture, buried underground, for millions of years.
Fossil fuels are fuels formed by natural processes such as anaerobic decomposition of buried dead organisms. The age of the organisms and their resulting fossil fuels is typically millions of years, and sometimes exceeds 650 million years. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon and include coal, petroleum and natural gas. Other more commonly used derivatives of fossil fuels include kerosene and propane. Although fossil fuels are continually being formed via natural processes, they are generally considered to be non-renewable resources because they take millions of years to form and the known viable reserves are being depleted much faster than new ones are being made.
Burning fossil fuels puts carbon into the atmosphere. Other smaller sources include industrial processes such as cement manufacture and natural gas flaring. Fossil fuels provide most of the energy that supports human transportation, electricity production, heating and cooling of buildings, and industrial activity. Oil used to be the dominant fossil fuel, but as of 2008, coal is dominant (40% to oil’s 37%). The Future of Fossil Fuels. The future of anthropogenic fossil fuel use depends on human decisions about energy use at the international scale. If we collectively choose to depend more and more on fossil fuels, our emissions will increase.
Carbon dioxide and climate change. Every time we burn fossil fuels such as gas, coal or oil, carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere. In a natural carbon cycle, carbon dioxide is re-absorbed by plants and trees. 
In the 1990′s, human fossil fuel use emitted 6.4 Petagrams of carbon (PgC) per year, and in from 2000-2008, 7.7 PgC/yr. Over 2000-2008, emissions increased by 3.4% per year, substantially faster than the growth rate of 1.0% per year in the 1990’s. The Future of Fossil Fuels. The future of anthropogenic fossil fuel use depends on human decisions about energy use at the international scale. If we collectively choose to depend more and more on fossil fuels, our emissions will increase.
Yes, it does. There is a natural amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that the carbon cycle moves around. This is enough, with the other greenhouse gases, to keep the ea … rth warm. Burning fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide that has been out of the picture, buried underground, for millions of years.
Oil and gas is made up of the remains of microscopic plankton. Over millions of years these remains become the carbon-rich coal, oil and gas we can use as fuel. When fossil fuels are burned they release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere which contributes to global warming. Using fossil fuels to generate energy also releases pollutants into the atmosphere-such as sulphur dioxide. Fossil fuels provide the main source of energy for our modern global economy. 
Answer by ActivePlayer. Confidence votes 426. Burning fossil fuels (combustion) releases carbon dioxide. As carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, presently contributing to global warming, this is why the world is moving away from fossil fuels to renewable energy. There is a natural amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that the carbon cycle moves around. This is enough, with the other greenhouse gases, to keep the ea … rth warm. Burning fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide that has been out of the picture, buried underground, for millions of years.
Through a series of chemical reactions and tectonic activity, carbon takes between 100-200 million years to move between rocks, soil, ocean, and atmosphere in the slow carbon cycle. On average, 10 13 to 10 14 grams (10–100 million metric tons) of carbon move through the slow carbon cycle every year. Coal and other fossil fuels are a convenient source of energy, but when they are burned, the stored carbon is released into the atmosphere. This alters the balance of the carbon cycle, and is changing Earth’s climate. (Photograph ©2010 Sandchem.