Definitions: 1. a manifestation of a thought disorder whereby the patient's responses do not relate to the interviewer's questions, or one paragraph, sentence, or phrase is not logically connected to those that occur before or after. The definition information for loose associations is provided by Stedman's.
If light beams from two independent sources reach the same point in space, there is no fixed relationship between the phases of the two light beams and they will not combine to form interference effects. Such light waves are called incoherent.[in′kōhir′ənt]. Etymology: L, in, not, cohaere, to hold together. 1 disordered; without logical connection; disjointed; lacking orderly continuity or relevance. 2 unable to express one's thoughts or ideas in an orderly, intelligible manner, usually as a result of emotional stress.uch light waves are called incoherent. If, on the other hand, the two light beams are superimposed after reaching the same point by different paths but are both radiated from one point of a source, interference effects will be seen because the phase difference in the two beams is constant.
jar•gon. 1. the language, esp. the vocabulary, peculiar to a particular trade, profession, or group: medical jargon. 2. unintelligible talk or writing; gibberish; babble. 3. pidgin. 4. language that is characterized by uncommon or pretentious vocabulary and convoluted syntax and is often vague in meaning. 5. to jargonize.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of incoherent is something written or spoken that is not sticking together, is rambling or is not expressed in an orderly way. 1  An example of incoherent is an essay that changes positions halfway through. 2  An example of incoherent is a person who talks nonsense and makes no sense. 1 An example of incoherent is an essay that changes positions halfway through. 2  An example of incoherent is a person who talks nonsense and makes no sense. 3  An example of incoherent is something written or said by a person who has only a very limited grasp of the language in which he is speaking.
Medical Definition of INCOHERENCE. : the quality or state of being incoherent. Definition of INCOHERENCE for Kids. : the quality or state of not being connected in a clear or logical way.
Definition of INCOHERENCE. 1. : the quality or state of being incoherent. 2. : something that is incoherent. Definition of INCOHERENCE for Kids. : the quality or state of not being connected in a clear or logical way.
Full Definition of INCOHERENT. : lacking coherence: as a: lacking cohesion: loose. — in·co·her·ent·ly adverb. See incoherent defined for English-language learners. See incoherent defined for kids. : not able to talk or express yourself in a clear way that can be easily understood.
(5). In general, this density matrix describes a mixed state, for example, a beam of unpolarized electrons or the photons emitted from an incoherent source such as an incandescent lamp. The pure state is a special case of the mixed state when all members of the ensemble are in the same state. See Statistical mechanics. (4). 