Synopsis. Carleton (Carly) S. Fiorina was born Cara Carleton Sneed in Austin, Texas on September 6, 1954. After dropping out of law school, she became an AT&T management trainee. She moved up the company ladder and became the first female officer in the Network Systems division. Early Life. When Carly Fiorina told her father, law professor Joseph Tyree Sneed III, that she'd decided to drop out of law school after her first year at UCLA, he shook his head and said he didn't think she'd amount to much.
Businesswoman Carly Fiorina was born Cara Carleton Sneed on September 6, 1954, in Austin, Texas. Her unique name was the result of family tradition. All the male members of the Sneed family who were named Carleton died while serving in the Civil War (1861–1865). Reproduced by permission. As chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of Hewlett-Packard (HP), a technology company worth $72 billion, Carly Fiorina is the most powerful woman in American business. Many give credit to the savvy businesswoman for leading the technology titan into the twenty-first century.
Carly Fiorina. Carly Fiorina is a business executive and politician seeking the Republican party's nomination for President during the 2016 election. She is a former executive of both AT&T and Hewlett-Packard, and was the first woman to lead a top 20 company as ranked in Fortune Magazine. Tweet. Carly Fiorina is a business executive and politician seeking the Republican party's nomination for President during the 2016 election. She is a former executive of both AT&T and Hewlett-Packard, and was the first woman to lead a top 20 company as ranked in Fortune Magazine.
Ethnicity: German, English, small amount of Dutch, remote French. Carly Fiorina is an American businessperson and political figure. She chairs the non-profit philanthropic organization Good360. Carly is the daughter of Madelon Montross (Juergens), an artist, and Joseph Tyree Sneed III, a law school dean, professor, and federal judge. Genealogy of Carly Fiorina (focusing on her mother’s side) – http://worldconnect.rootsweb.ancestry.com. Carly’s maternal grandfather, Edgar Adam Juergens, on the 1910 U.S. Census – https://familysearch.org.
Her surname is from her husband, Frank Fiorina, to whom she has been married since 1985. Carly is a candidate for the Republican Party’s nomination for President of the United States in 2016. Carly has German, English, a small amount of Dutch, and remote French, ancestry. Genealogy of Carly Fiorina (focusing on her mother’s side) – http://worldconnect.rootsweb.ancestry.com. Carly’s maternal grandfather, Edgar Adam Juergens, on the 1910 U.S. Census – https://familysearch.org.
In 1980, Fiorina started at AT&T as a management trainee and rose through the ranks to become the company's first female executive officer. In 1995, Fiorina led corporate operations for AT&T's equipment and technology spin-off, Lucent Technologies. As chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard (HP) from 1999 to 2005, she was the first woman to lead a top-20 company as ranked by Fortune magazine. During Fiorina's tenure, HP laid off 30,000 U.S. employees. By 2004, the number of total HP employees around the world was about the same as the pre-merger total of HP and Compaq combined, including roughly 8,000 employees of other companies acquired by HP since 2001 as well as workers overseas.
By Joseph Neese. Former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina jumped into the already crowded race for the 2016 Republican nomination on Monday, casting herself as Hillary Clinton’s critic-in-chief in a video posted online. 
Mini Bio (1). Carly Fiorina was born on September 6, 1954 in Austin, Texas, USA as Cara Carleton Sneed. She has been married to Frank Fiorina since May 17, 1985. She was previously married to Todd Bartlem. 