Muse Watson was born in Alexandria, Louisiana and attended Louisiana Tech on a music stipend for two years before transferring to Berea College, Berea, Kentucky, where he performed for the first time on stage as Petruchio in Taming of the Shrew. In television, he appeared as the wise Charles Westmoreland/DB Cooper in the award winning first season of Prison Break (2005) with Wentworth Miller and 11 episodes of NCIS (2003) as Mark Harmon's mentor. Muse also gave an unforgettable performance with Jennifer Love Hewitt as a special guest on Saturday Night Live.
Muse Watson was born in Alexandria, Louisiana and attended Louisiana Tech on a music stipend for two years before transferring to Berea College, Berea, Kentucky, where he performed for the first time on stage as Petruchio in Taming of the Shrew. Legendary V.P. of Casting for Warner Brothers, Marion Dougherty, encouraged Muse to move to Hollywood and arranged for his first Hollywood agent in 1994.
Muse recurs on NCIS Watch for Muse in the CBS hit TV show NCIS on Tuesdays, created and written by Don Bellisario and starring Mark Harmon as Agent Gibbs. Muse plays retired Special Agent Mike Franks, who was Gibbs mentor. Gibbs learned everything he knows from Franks, Muse s character, including the famous Gibbs slap. Muse in Fox hit Prison Break Muse is Charles Westmoreland in the award-winning first season of Prison Break, also starring Wentworth Miller and Dominic Purcell.
Watson also guest starred in an episode of The Mentalist (Carnelian, Inc., March 2009), and in the Castle episode Punked (October 2010). Since 2006, he has appeared as a recurring cast member on NCIS as Agent Leroy Jethro Gibbs 's mentor and former superior Mike Franks. Watson also gave a performance with Jennifer Love Hewitt as a special guest on Saturday Night Live (1998), parodying his role in I Know What You Did Last Summer. Muse Watson (born July 20, 1948) is an American stage and screen actor.
Pre-Series. As seen in a NIS personnel file as seen in the NCIS Season 4 episode, Singled Out (episode) , Franks was born Michael Aaron Franks on November 22nd, 1948. Prior to joining NIS, Franks served as a Marine and had even been in the Vietnam War. List of Appearances. Michael Aaron Franks or simply Mike was an NIS/NCIS Supervisory Special Agent who was the original leader of the NCIS Major Case Response Team and who was also directly responsible for helping Gunnery Sergeant Leroy Jethro Gibbs become an NCIS Special Agent.
Early life [edit]. Watson was born on July 20, 1948 in Alexandria, Louisiana. He attended Louisiana Tech on a music stipend for two years before transferring to Berea College in Berea, Kentucky, where he performed for the first time on stage as Petruchio in a production of Shakespeare 's The Taming of the Shrew. Muse Watson (born July 20, 1948) is an American stage and screen actor.
I miss hearing his gravelly voice saying Probie.. « Back to Q & A. Retired special agent Mike Franks, former mentor and partner of NCIS lead character Jethro Gibbs (whom he affectionately called Probie from Day 1), was played by rough-looking character actor Muse Watson until he was killed off this past season. Fans like yourself, who're really aching for the voice of his paternal NCIS character, can rejoice in the fact he'll be coming back for the show's big 200th episode, according to the show's producer.
Watch for Muse in the CBS hit TV show NCIS on Tuesdays, created and written by Don Bellisario and st arring Mark Harmon as Agent Gibbs. Muse plays retired Special Agent Mike Franks, who was Gibbs mentor. Gibbs learned everything he knows from Franks, Muse s character, including the famous Gibbs slap. Muse in Fox hit Prison Break Muse is Charles Westmoreland in the award-winning first season of Prison Break, also starring Wentworth Miller and Dominic Purcell.