Robert Hooke's microscope. Perhaps his most famous observations were in his study of thin slices of cork, describing the pores, or cells he viewed. Hooke had discovered plant cells, or more precisely, Hooke had been viewing the cell walls in cork tissue. In fact, it was Hooke who coined the term cells: the boxlike cells of cork reminded him of the cells of a monastery. Hooke also reported seeing similar structures in wood and in other plants. Hooke also famously described a fly's eye.
Answers. Best Answer: 1665 Robert Hooke in england began to use the compound microscope. He put thin slices of cork under the microscope and described what he saw as  air perfectly enclosed in little boxes or cells distinct from one another. (this is where the name cell comes from)
Hooke studied at Wadham College during the Protectorate where he became one of a tightly knit group of ardent Royalists led by John Wilkins. Here he was employed as an assistant to Thomas Willis and to Robert Boyle, for whom he built the vacuum pumps used in Boyle's gas law experiments. Much of Hooke's scientific work was conducted in his capacity as curator of experiments of the Royal Society, a post he held from 1662, or as part of the household of Robert Boyle.
Hooke had discovered plant cells -- more precisely, what Hooke saw were the cell walls in cork tissue. In fact, it was Hooke who coined the term cells: the boxlike cells of cork reminded him of the cells of a monastery. Hooke also reported seeing similar structures in wood and in other plants. It is not surprising that he made important contributions to biology and to paleontology. Relatively little is known about Robert Hooke's life. He was born on July 18, 1635, at Freshwater, on the Isle of Wight, the son of a churchman.
In 1665 Hooke published Micrographia, a book describing observations made with microscopes and telescopes, as well as some original work in biology. Hooke coined the term cell for describing biological organisms, the term being suggested by the resemblance of plant cells to cells of a honeycomb. Much of Hooke's scientific work was conducted in his capacity as curator of experiments of the Royal Society, a post he held from 1662, or as part of the household of Robert Boyle.
- Micrographia, by Robert Hooke (1665). In addition to Hooke's observations, Micrographia is known for its spectacular copperplate engravings of the miniature world, particularly its fold-out plates of insects. The engraving of the louse in particular folds out to four times the size of the book. In fact, it was Hooke who coined the term cells: the boxlike cells of cork reminded him of the cells of a monastery. Hooke also reported seeing similar structures in wood and in other plants. Hooke also famously described a fly's eye.
The Englishman Robert Hooke (18th July 1635 - 3rd March 1703) was an architect, natural philosopher and brilliant scientist, best known for his law of elasticity (Hooke's law), his book Micrographia, published in 1665 and for first applying the word cell to describe the basic unit of life. In fact, it was Hooke who coined the term cells: the boxlike cells of cork reminded him of the cells of a monastery. Hooke also reported seeing similar structures in wood and in other plants. Hooke also famously described a fly's eye.
Robert Hooke and the Cell Theory. Robert Hooke's greatest legacy is most likely his contribution to Cell Theory. Cell Theory, as we know it today, is the result of the work of many different scientists. But here's the thing: Hooke was actually the first person to view cells under a microscope. Robert Hooke provided many important contributions to a wide range of scientific fields including physics, chemistry, anatomy, biology, geology, paleontology, architecture and memory. His Theory of Elasticity provided him the tools to become the first person to use balance springs to regulate watches.
In 1663 an English scientist, Robert Hooke, discovered cells in a piece of cork, which he examined under his primitive microscope. Actually, Hooke only observed cell walls because cork cells are dead and without cytoplasmic contents. Hooke drew the cells he saw and also coined the word CELL. The word cell is derived from the Latin word 'cellula' which means small compartment. Hooke published his findings in his famous work, Micrographia: Physiological Descriptions of Minute Bodies made by Magnifying Glasses (1665). 