Chlorophyll is a blood builder and is also effective against anemia which is caused by the deficit of red blood cells in the body. Cancer: Chlorophyll is effective against cancer such as human colon cancer and stimulates the induction of apoptosis. Blood clotting: Chlorophyll contains vitamin K which is vital for normal clotting of blood. It is used in naturopathy for the treatment of nose bleeds and for the females suffering from anemic conditions and heavy menstrual bleeding.
It has also been suggested that chlorophyll can benefit people with iron deficiency (anemia), because chlorophyll contains a single atom of iron just like human hemoglobin. This can help to oxygenate the bloodstream even through an iron deficiency. Phytolife is a carefully designed herbal tonic which can be a great source of chlorophyll for your daily needs. This powerful complexer supports the natural blood-cleansing process and cleanses intestinal systems and the body.
Low regeneration of red blood cell is an important cause for ESRD patients to suffer from anemia, tiredness and dizziness. Therefore, increasing red blood cell is very important. It is said chlorophyll helps ESRD patients increase red blood cells and remit anemia. Liquid chlorophyll has lots of health benefits. Aside from cleaning toxins from the blood, it also adds important nutrients to the blood and increase red blood cells. The major component of red blood cell is hemoglobin.
Chlorophyll is the stuff that makes leaves green and puts grass stains on your clothes. It is also the undisputed king of blood builders, which is why green leafy vegetables are important to building healthy blood. For those who don't obey mother's injunction to eat your veggies, liquid chlorophyll may be helpful. 
The symptoms of anemia due to a decrease in red blood cells include tiredness and exhaustion, heart palpitations, dizziness, fainting, shortness of breath, and even ridges in the fingernails. I used to be extremely anemic due to fibroids and I had a very strange, crazy craving for cornstarch. Anemia is not a disease but a symptom of a condition. There are many types of anemia, but the most common is anemia due to a decrease in red blood cells, hemoglobin, or both.
Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in plants. Plants use chlorophyll and light to make food. People use chlorophyll as medicine. Common sources of chlorophyll used for medicine include alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and silkworm droppings. Chlorophyll is used for bad breath and reducing colostomy odor. A colostomy is a surgical opening made in the abdomen that allows intestinal waste to be collected in a bag
Chlorophyll is almost an exact match of the red blood cells or hemoglobin in the human body. With such a unique composition, chlorophyll can serve as a substitute for red blood cells until the body is able to replenish the healthy red blood cell count. The goal for treating anemia is rebuilding the supply of red blood cells in the body. This level can typically be achieved by incorporating different dietary supplements and natural remedies into your everyday routine. Blackstrap molasses, chlorophyll, and beetroot are three of the most effective treatment options
Description. Chlorophyll is the major light-absorbing pigment in green plants. It is located within the membrane of the chloroplasts, which are small, green organelles found in plant cells. Chlorophyll is a large molecule composed of hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, and magnesium coordinated with four central nitrogen atoms. Dr. Fisher has been using chlorophyll in the treatment of anemia with good results. In another clinical study, Dr. Putek used 15 adult patients with chronic hypochromic anemia. They were given chlorophyll and allied substances and placed on diets free from meat and eggs, but adequate in other respects.