On September 15, 1935, the Nazi government passed two new racial laws at their annual NSDAP Reich Party Congress in Nuremberg, Germany. These two laws (the Reich Citizenship Law and the Law to Protect German Blood and Honor) became collectively known as the Nuremberg Laws. At their annual Nazi Party rally in the southern German city of Nuremberg, the Nazis announced on September 15, 1935 the creation of the Nuremberg Laws, which codified the racial theories espoused by the party ideology.
The Nuremberg laws had a serious economic and social impact on the Jewish community. Persons convicted of violating the marriage laws were imprisoned, and (subsequent to 8 March 1938) upon completing their sentences were re-arrested by the Gestapo and sent to Nazi concentration camps. Under the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour (15 September 1935), marriages were forbidden between Jews and Germans; between Mischlinge of the first degree and Germans; between Jews and Mischlinge of the second degree; and between two Mischlinge of the second degree.
Confidence votes 191. The Nuremberg Laws of 1935 should not be confused with the postwar Nuremberg Tribunal. The Nuremberg Laws (1935) were anti-Semitic laws that took away civil rights and (in effect) citizenship from German Jews. 
The two Nuremberg Laws were unanimously passed by the Reichstag on 15 September 1935. The Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour prohibited marriages and extramarital intercourse between Jews and Germans, and forbade the employment of German females under 45 in Jewish households. Under the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour (15 September 1935), marriages were forbidden between Jews and Germans; between Mischlinge of the first degree and Germans; between Jews and Mischlinge of the second degree; and between two Mischlinge of the second degree.
Best Answer: The Nuremberg Laws were anti-Semitic laws that defined who was a Jew or German and forbade marriage between Jews and Germans and stripped Jews of their citizenship. Check the link, Google is your friend. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuremberg_L... 'The law of the protection of German Blood and German Honour' The second law was....... 'The Reich Citizenship Law' stripping persons not considered of German Blood of their Citizenship In the 12 years of Nazi rule the Reichstag only passed four laws.
Some of the allies of the Nazis passed their own versions of the Nuremberg laws. In 1938, Fascist Italy passed the Italian Racial Laws, which stripped Jews of their citizenship and forbade marriages between Jewish and non-Jewish Italians. Under the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour (15 September 1935), marriages were forbidden between Jews and Germans; between Mischlinge of the first degree and Germans; between Jews and Mischlinge of the second degree; and between two Mischlinge of the second degree.
The Nuremberg Laws were anti-Jewish statutes enacted by Germany on September 15, 1935, marking a major step in clarifying racial policy and removing Jewish influences from Aryan society. These laws, on which the rest of Nazi racial policy hung, were written hastily. On November 14, 1935, the. issued a supplement to the Nuremberg Laws of September 15, 1935, which created the racial categories of German, Jew, half-Jew (Jewish Mischling first degree), and quarter-Jew (Jewish Mischling second degree), each with its own regulations.
On November 14, 1935, the RMI issued a supplement to the Nuremberg Laws of September 15, 1935, which created the racial categories of German, Jew, half-Jew (Jewish Mischling first degree), and quarter-Jew (Jewish Mischling second degree), each with its own regulations. On November 14, 1935, the.
The Nuremberg Laws (German: Nuernberger Nürnberger) gesetze were antisemitic laws In Nazi. Germany they were introduced on 15 september 1935 by The reichstag at a special meeting convened at the Annual Nuremberg rally of The Nazi (PARTY). nsdap Under the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour (15 September 1935), marriages were forbidden between Jews and Germans; between Mischlinge of the first degree and Germans; between Jews and Mischlinge of the second degree; and between two Mischlinge of the second degree.
These laws were not so much a list of what Jews could and couldn't do; they determined who was a Jew. The Nuremberg Laws were put forward because Hitler's political base (Mostly the SS) were pressuring him to finally reckon with the Jews and to furthermore revoke all Jews citizenship. The first part off the Nuremberg Laws was The Reich Citizenship Law,” this law revoked all Jews citizenship. The Second law was The Law for the Protection of German Blood and Honor,” this law prevented marriages and sexual relations between Jews and Germans. 