Neck spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, or uncontrollable tightening and shaking, of a muscle in response to strain, overuse, weakness, or muscle pain related to injury or a disorder. In some conditions, such as cervical dystonia, the spasm may cause your head to turn or to jerk. Some, but not all, neck spasms occur close enough to the spinal cord or to the nerve roots leading in and out of the spinal cord to put pressure on one of these sensitive nerves and sometimes cause severe pain.
Muscle spasms and cramps. Cramps are caused by muscle spasms, involuntary contractions of one or more muscles. In addition to the foot and calf muscles, other muscles prone to spasms include the front and back of the thigh, the hands, arms, abdomen and muscles along the ribcage. 
The most common causes of neck cramps or spasms are torticollis, sprain or strain, and muscle spasm. Other possible causes, such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), are more rare. Within all the people who go to their doctor with neck cramps or spasms, 67% report having neck pain, 46% report having back pain, and 33% report having shoulder cramps or spasms. 1  Neck pain 67. 2  Back pain 46. 3  Shoulder cramps or spasms strong predictor 33. 4  Arm pain 33. 5  Headache 25. 6  Back cramps or spasms strong predictor 25.
Cramps and Neck Cramps A cramp is a painful, unpleasant sensation that is caused due to the contraction of muscles. They can be caused due to cold, overexertion, and illness or poisoning. There are... Cramps and Neck Cramps. A cramp is a painful, unpleasant sensation that is caused due to the contraction of muscles. They can be caused due to cold, overexertion, and illness or poisoning. There are two main causes of cramp – inadequate oygenation of the muscles and the lack of water or salt. There may be temporary pains or permanent neck injuries. Neck cramps may be caused by the abnormalities in the muscles, ligaments and nerves in the neck area and also the bones and joints of the spine. These abnormalities happen due to wear and tear, injuries and tumors in some cases. Neck pain may also cause pain in other areas like shoulder, arms and back
A sharp throbbing pain in your neck which radiates downwards to your arms might signify a neck cramp. There are various causes of neck cramps as we as treatment options. Advertisement. To maintain our posture, the muscles of our neck and head alternatively contract and expand. Sleeping on the side, by tucking your body in the fetal position, causes the neck muscles to be over-flexed resulting in cramps in neck. Bad Posture. Bad posture is an unfortunate by-product of our sedentary lifestyle. Bad posture causes cramps and inflexibility in the body.
Spasms in the neck are described as contractions of the muscles in the neck which are very painful. These contractions in the muscles cannot be released voluntarily. These muscle spasms are also referred to as a charley horse or a cramp. Cramps in the neck can also affect the muscles in the surrounding anatomical areas. The symptoms also depend on the level of involvement of the cervical spine and can be centered in the head or the face or in the arms, shoulders as well as the upper back.
Symptoms of a muscle cramp include local pain at the site of the cramp, which can be severe, and firmness or tenderness of the involved muscle. Any muscle can develop a cramp, but the most common sites for muscle cramps are in the legs. 
Neck Cramps And Pain Or Injury-A cramp can also be a result of a previous injury to the muscle in question. If one has suffered whiplash for example, or some other injury to the neck muscles, a neck cramp or several, may result. Night Cramps-A neck cramp can sometimes occur during sleep when the body is relaxed. Why we get cramps at night is not well known, but many experience cramps at that time, a more common experience as people get older.