DEFINITION of 'Business Insurance'. Insurance coverage that protects businesses from losses due to events that may occur during the normal course of business. There are many types of insurance for businesses including coverage for property damage, legal liability and employee-related risks. 
Your business property insurance protects you even if the property is away from your place of business when it is damaged or lost. If you don’t own the building where you do business, you'll only need to cover the building’s contents. The basic commercial property insurance policy protects your investment in fixtures, furniture, office equipment, inventory and the supplies that you store either at your business location or off-site.
Property insurance provides protection against most risks to property, such as fire, theft and some weather damage. This includes specialized forms of insurance such as fire insurance, flood insurance, earthquake insurance, home insurance, or boiler insurance. 
Personal property coverage is the type of insurance that can help protect the items in your home, like your furniture. Your belongings are likely worth much more than you might think, and if they're damaged or lost, personal property coverage could help you cover the cost of replacing them. Scheduled personal property is optional protection you can add to your homeowners policy to cover high-value items. Though personal property coverage helps protect the majority of your belongings, most insurance companies set limits on certain items, like jewelry.
Business property insurance coverage is typically packaged with additional coverages for property issued to you by a client that is temporarily in your custody and Business Interruption Insurance that pays for loss of earnings when operations are curtailed or suspended because of a covered property loss. (Some coverages may not be available on all policies or in all states). 1  Business Income. 2  Reimburses you for your actual loss of earnings for up to 12 months resulting from a covered loss to your property.
1 Protects you against loss or damage to the property of others that is in your possession at a job site or on your premises. 2  This coverage would respond to claims for accidental damage to customer equipment in your care, custody or control. (Some coverages may not be available on all policies or in all states). 1  Business Income. 2  Reimburses you for your actual loss of earnings for up to 12 months resulting from a covered loss to your property.
Companies frequently purchase commercial property insurance as a part of a Business Owner’s Policy, which offers a way for low-risk companies to purchase two of the most valuable types of insurance-business property insurance and commercial general liability insurance – in a single, affordable package. If you don’t own the building where you do business, you'll only need to cover the building’s contents. The basic commercial property insurance policy protects your investment in fixtures, furniture, office equipment, inventory and the supplies that you store either at your business location or off-site.
1 Property of Others. 2  Protects you against loss or damage to the property of others that is in your possession at a job site or on your premises. 3  This coverage would respond to claims for accidental damage to customer equipment in your care, custody or control. (Some coverages may not be available on all policies or in all states). 1  Business Income. 2  Reimburses you for your actual loss of earnings for up to 12 months resulting from a covered loss to your property.
Below are just a few of the important ways business property coverage can help you in the event of a loss. (Some coverages may not be available on all policies or in all states). 1  Business Income. 2  Reimburses you for your actual loss of earnings for up to 12 months resulting from a covered loss to your property.
Business property insurance policies – sometimes called commercial property insurance – protect your property, as well as inventory or assets, against loss or damage caused by theft, an accident or some other means. If you don’t own the building where you do business, you'll only need to cover the building’s contents. The basic commercial property insurance policy protects your investment in fixtures, furniture, office equipment, inventory and the supplies that you store either at your business location or off-site.