Diseases Transmitted by Mosquitoes. Some mosquitoes are vectors for diseases. This means they can transmit diseases from one human or animal to another. Typically, the diseases are caused by viruses or tiny parasites. For example, a mosquito that bites an infected human or animal can pick up a virus along with the blood meal. The mosquito and virus do not harm one another but the virus reproduces inside the mosquito. 
Dengue is a human disease caused by a virus transmitted by mosquitoes. It occurs commonly in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, predominantly in urban-suburban areas. It is the most important arboviral disease of humans, affecting 50-100 million persons annually (Gubler 2000). 
Chikungunya is a viral disease spread to people by the bite of infected mosquitoes. The most common symptoms of chikungunya virus infection are fever and joint pain. Other symptoms may include headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, or rash. 
Diseases transmitted by mosquitoes include: malaria, dengue, filariasis, West Nile virus, chikungunya, yellow fever, Japanese encephalitis, Saint Louis encephalitis, Western equine encephalitis, Eastern equine encephalitis, Venezuelan equine encephalitis, La Crosse encephalitis and Zika fever. Mosquito-borne diseases or mosquito-borne illness are disease caused by bacterial, viruses or parasites transmitted by mosquitoes. They can transmit disease without being affected themselves
1 Diseases that can be Transmitted by Mosquitoes. 2  Most mosquito bites do not result in disease, but it is a good idea to recognize and watch for the early symptoms of some of the more commonly encountered mosquito-transmitted diseases. 3  Preventing Mosquito-Transmitted Disease. 
Mosquito-borne diseases are diseases that can be spread through the bite of mosquitoes. These diseases may be caused by a virus, also known as arboviruses, or can be caused by parasites. Several of the mosquito species found in Florida are capable of transmitting diseases to humans, horses, and other animals. Mosquito-borne diseases found in Florida include West Nile virus disease, Eastern equine encephalitis, and St. Louis encephalitis. Many other mosquito-borne diseases are found in different parts of the world, and can be brought back to Florida if infected people or animals are bitten by mosquitoes while in Florida.
1 West Nile Virus (WNV). 2  West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 3  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota. 4  Most people infected with West Nile virus show no symptoms or flu-like symptoms, but some (primarily elderly) have more severe illness. While mosquito-transmitted disease is not as common in Minnesota as it is in tropical climates, there are several diseases of potential concern to Minnesota residents. Minnesota residents who travel to other countries can return with tropical diseases such as malaria or dengue. 1  West Nile Virus (WNV). 2  West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 3  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota
1 West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 2  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota. 3  Most people infected with West Nile virus show no symptoms or flu-like symptoms, but some (primarily elderly) have more severe illness. While mosquito-transmitted disease is not as common in Minnesota as it is in tropical climates, there are several diseases of potential concern to Minnesota residents. Minnesota residents who travel to other countries can return with tropical diseases such as malaria or dengue. 1  West Nile Virus (WNV). 2  West Nile virus is a disease transmitted to people, horses, and birds. 3  It is the most commonly reported mosquito-transmitted disease in Minnesota