1 Prostate infections comprise only small percentage of all men with prostatitis. 2  This small percentage is comprised of acute and chronic prostatic infections. 3  E. coli and other Gram-negative bacteria cause most acute and chronic prostatic infections. 1 Treatment of prostate infections or prostatitis is usually antibiotics; chronic infectious prostatitis may require long-term antibiotic treatment, and severe infections may require hospitalization with IV antibiotics. 2  Home care is limited to pain reduction. 3  Men with a prostate infection or prostatitis need medical care
When the prostate gland becomes infected with a germ (a bacterial infection), the condition is known as acute prostatitis. Symptoms include pain, mainly at the base of the penis and around the anus. A bladder infection commonly occurs at the same time. It can also be caused by infection (infective) or be non-infective. Acute prostatitis is a type of infective prostatitis. It is caused by infection of the prostate gland with a germ (a bacterial infection). Chronic prostatitis can be due to long-term infection or inflammation without infection.
Other symptoms include painful ejaculation and the need to urinate often and urgently. Chronic prostatitis may be accompanied by inflammation of the prostate gland, but can also be non-inflammatory. Sometimes, inflammation is present but there is no sign of a bacterial infection. There are different types of prostatitis. If you have no symptoms or discomfort, but your health care provider finds white blood cells that fight infection in the prostate fluid and semen, this is called asymptomatic inflammatory
1 E. coli and other Gram-negative bacteria cause most acute and chronic prostatic infections. 2  Prostatic infection symptoms include groin pain, dysuria, pain with ejaculation, reduced urine output; and may include fever, malaise, and periodic recurrence of symptoms even after treatment. 1 Treatment of prostate infections or prostatitis is usually antibiotics; chronic infectious prostatitis may require long-term antibiotic treatment, and severe infections may require hospitalization with IV antibiotics. 2  Home care is limited to pain reduction. 3  Men with a prostate infection or prostatitis need medical care
Symptoms of prostate infection may include fever, chills, and flushing of the skin. Some men experience pain in the abdomen, back, or in the genital area. You may feel pain or burning during urination, or have difficulty urinating at all. Symptoms of chronic bacterial prostatitis are less intense and develop slowly. It is more likely to affect young and middle-aged men and causes recurring urinary tract infections (UTIs). Acute bacterial prostatitis is the least common, but the easiest to diagnose.
1 Acute bacterial prostatitis: Caused by a bacterial infection and it typically starts suddenly and may include flu-like symptoms. 2  It is the least common of the four types of prostatitis. 3  Chronic bacterial prostatitis: Characterized by recurrent bacterial infections of the prostate gland. 
Prostatitis means that you have inflammation of your prostate gland. Prostatitis can be sudden-onset (acute) or persistent (chronic). It can also be caused by infection (infective) or be non-infective. Acute prostatitis is a type of infective prostatitis. It is caused by infection of the prostate gland with a germ (a bacterial infection). Chronic prostatitis can be due to long-term infection or inflammation without infection.
Prostatitis is often described as an infection of the prostate. It can also be an inflammation with no sign of infection. Just 5% to 10% of cases are caused by bacterial infection. It does not raise the risk of getting prostate cancer. Prostatitis can affect men of all ages. Prostatitis is considered chronic if it lasts more than three months. Types of prostatitis include: 1  Acute bacterial prostatitis. 2  A sudden bacterial infection marked by inflammation of the prostate. 3  This is the least common form of prostatitis, but the symptoms are usually severe.
An infection of the prostate is also known as prostatitis, which literally means inflammation of the prostate. The prostate is a gland about the size of a walnut that is located just beneath the male bladder. The most common symptom of a prostate infection is an urgency to urinate, but with very little results. Often, urination is accompanied by a burning sensation and very little urine is passed, despite the feeling of a full bladder.