1 Causes and Treatment for Inflammation of the Vulva Inflammation of the vulva is caused by a number of different things. 2  While most of the causes of inflammation of the vulva are not serious, it is important to understand the …. The medical term for inflammation of a gland is adenitis from the root aden-meaning 'gland' and-itis meaning 'inflammation.'. found this useful. Carol Croft. Edit. Share to: Peakay Tea.
Inflammation of the kidney is called nephritis. In Greek terms, nephro means of the kidney and itis means inflammation.. The causes for nephritis include infections, autoimmune disorders and toxins in the body. Over time, inflammation leads to scarring in the glomeruli, which can sometimes lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end stage renal disease (ESRD) . Symptoms of MPGN include blood in the urine, swelling around the stomach, eyes, feet and legs and fluid retention.
Bladder inflammation: Inflammation of the urinary bladder. Also called cystitis. Can be due to infection from bacteria that ascend the urethra to the bladder or for unknown reasons, such as with interstitial cystitis. Symptoms include a frequent need to urinate, often accompanied by a burning sensation. As bladder inflammation progresses, blood may be observed in the urine and the patient may suffer cramps after urination. In young children, attempts to avoid the pain of cystitis can be a cause for daytime wetting (enuresis).
Introduction. Acute cholecystitis is swelling (inflammation) of the gallbladder. It is a potentially serious condition that usually needs to be treated in hospital. The main symptom of acute cholecystitis is a sudden sharp pain in the upper right side of your tummy (abdomen) that spreads towards your right shoulder. 
Pyelonephritis. Pyelonephritis is a urinary tract infection that moves from the bladder and reaches the pyelum (pelvis) of the kidney, making it a form of nephritis. It's caused by kidney stones, infections in the bladder, catheter use to drain urine and defects in the urinary tract. Over time, inflammation leads to scarring in the glomeruli, which can sometimes lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end stage renal disease (ESRD) . Symptoms of MPGN include blood in the urine, swelling around the stomach, eyes, feet and legs and fluid retention.
Endometritis is the term for inflammation of the endometrium. Endometritis endometritis. Edit. Share to: 1  Causes and Treatment for Inflammation of the Vulva Inflammation of the vulva is caused by a number of different things. 2  While most of the causes of inflammation of the vulva are not serious, it is important to understand the …. The medical term for inflammation of a gland is adenitis from the root aden-meaning 'gland' and-itis meaning 'inflammation.'. found this useful. Carol Croft. Edit. Share to: Peakay Tea.
cholecystitis Inflammation of the gallbladder. Cholecystitis is the term for inflammation of the gallbladder wall and inflammation of the abdominal lining near the gallbladder It is usually caused by a gallstone in the cystic duct, which is the duct that connects the gallbladder to the hepatic duct. It can also be caused by tumor and bacteria in the ducts. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Cholecystitis is the term for inflammation of the gallbladder wall and inflammation of the abdominal lining near the gallbladder It is usually caused by a gallstone in the cystic duct, which is the duct that connects the gallbladder to the hepatic duct.
IgA nephropathy, also known as Berger's disease, is caused by inflammation of the glomeruli. Blood and protein go into the urine due to waste filtration not functioning correctly. Symptoms include high blood pressure, blood in the urine, pain in the sides, edema and flu-like symptoms among other things. Over time, inflammation leads to scarring in the glomeruli, which can sometimes lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end stage renal disease (ESRD) . Symptoms of MPGN include blood in the urine, swelling around the stomach, eyes, feet and legs and fluid retention.
Gallbladder and bile duct. Cholecystitis (ko-luh-sis-TIE-tis) is inflammation of the gallbladder. Your gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped organ on the right side of your abdomen, beneath your liver. The gallbladder holds a digestive fluid that's released into your small intestine (bile). 