Like all OPs, dimethoate acts by interfering with the activities of cholinesterase, an enzyme essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system of insects and humans(8). Production and use Dimethoate is used in a large number of products. In the US, it has 166 approved labels(9). Its trade names include Afidox (produced by Lucava), Cekutoate (Cequisa), Perfekthion (BASF), Rogor (Isagro), Dimezyl (Agriphar), Hilthioate (Hindustan), and Teeka (Nagarjuna Agrichem)(10). As with all OPs, dimethoate is rapidly absorbed through the skin, and easily absorbed through the lungs(20). The population as a whole is not generally subject to exposure to dimethoate from air, water or food(21); however occupational exposure may occur during manufacture, formulation and use.
Dimethoate is used against a broad range of insects such as thrips, aphids, mites, and whiteflies(4), and on a number of crops including citrus, cotton, fruit, olives, potatoes, tea, tobacco and vegetables(5). As with all OPs, dimethoate is rapidly absorbed through the skin, and easily absorbed through the lungs(20). The population as a whole is not generally subject to exposure to dimethoate from air, water or food(21); however occupational exposure may occur during manufacture, formulation and use.
General Information. Dimethoate is a systemic and contact organophosphorus insecticide registered for use in the U.S. in 1962 and used on several field grown agricultural crops (e.g., leaf greens, citrus, and melons), tree crops, and ornamentals. Residential and non-agricultural uses were cancelled in 2000. Dimethoate is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, the lungs, and through the skin. General population exposure to dimethoate or omethoate can occur by eating foods treated with dimethoate or by drinking water.
SPECIMEN LABEL Disclaimer: Always refer to the label on the product before using Helena or any other product. equipment, pest problem and stage of crop growth. Application of more or less than optimal quantity of water may result in decreased chemical performance, crop injury or illegal pesticide residues. Do not apply within 15 days of harvest. Do not enter treated groves within 4 days of last application. Use of dimethoate is prohibited during any time of day in any given orchard from when that orchard has 10% open blooms until such time as there has been at least 75% petal fall on the north side of the trees.
Danadim is an insecticide and acaricide with combined systemic and contact action. It is suitable for use in a wide range of crops to control chewing and sucking pests. Active ingredient: 400 g/L dimethoate with a unique stabiliser. For control of mites & aphids on: 
All Cygon products contain dimethoate, the active ingredient. Industry products are made for use in backpack sprayers or even crop dusters, so application is a dilution of the poison. The targeted home products are either spray concentrations or granulated for systemic introduction. 
Insecticide. Dimethoate 400 is an organophosphate systemic insecticide/miticide for use on fruit and citrus trees, vineyards, nonbearing and nursery stock, commercial pecan production, certain commercial vegetable crops, certain field and seed crops and ornamental plants grown in nurseries only. 
Dimethoate is a widely used organophosphorus (OP) insecticide applied to kill mites and insects systemically and on contact(1). It was introduced in the 1950s, originally patented by American Cyanamid(2), and is now produced by 39 companies around the world(3). As with all OPs, dimethoate is rapidly absorbed through the skin, and easily absorbed through the lungs(20). The population as a whole is not generally subject to exposure to dimethoate from air, water or food(21); however occupational exposure may occur during manufacture, formulation and use.
Dimethoate 4EC is a systemic insecticide and miticide. Quantity. Available in 2x2.5 gallon cases. Functions and Benefits A systemic insecticide/miticide labeled for a variety of pests affecting fruits, vegetables, nuts, citrus, field, and seed crops. Contains four pounds of active ingredient per gallon.
Dimethoate is broad-spectrum systemic insecticide for a wide range of pests on fruit, vegetables, pastures, cotton, lucerne, peanuts and ornamentals. 