The ovary is an ovum-producing reproductive organ, often found in pairs as part of the vertebrate female reproductive system. Ovaries are oval-shaped endocrine system glands, the group of glands that produce a variety of hormones human body needs to function appropriately. Ovaries are found in females, one on each side of the uterus. An ovum is a female reproductive cell. The ovaries are the primary source of the female hormones. The female hormones are: 1  Estrogen: Estrogen is secreted by a number of cells in the follicle. 2  On the way to ovulation, the follicle that has the maturing egg goes through the surface of the ovary.
They are located in the pelvis, one on each side of the uterus. The ovaries are connected to each other by the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. The ovaries have two functions: they produce eggs (also called ova) and female hormones. The size of each ovary is about 1.5 inches long. Each month, during the menstrual cycle, an egg is released from one ovary. The egg travels from the ovary through a fallopian tube to the uterus. The ovaries are the main source of female hormones (estrogen and progesterone). 
The role of the ovaries changes over time, from birth to the postmenopause years. When puberty arrives, the ovaries become the conductor of the childbearing orchestra. They produce key female hormones (estrogen and progesterone) and are responsible for releasing eggs. Throughout life, the ovaries also produce the male hormone testosterone, which contributes to a healthy woman's sex drive. Even in postmenopause the ovaries continue to produce small amounts of testosterone.
Ovaries. The ovaries, a pair of tiny glands in the female pelvic cavity, are the most important organs of the female reproductive system. Their importance is derived from their role in producing both the female sex hormones that control reproduction and the female gametes that are fertilized to form embryos. 
The function of the ovary is to produce the ovules that will later be either fertilized or released during the menstrual cycle.   the ovary stores and produces eggs for th … e female body.   you'll have to ask my agent... Purpose of the ovaries is to produce ovulation (egg) for conception. 
The ovary is a ductless reproductive gland in which the female reproductive cells are produced. Females have a pair of ovaries, held by a membrane beside the uterus on each side of the lower abdomen. The ovary is needed in reproduction since it is responsible for producing the female reproductive cells, or ova.
In addition to their role in producing ova, the ovaries also have the distinction of being an endocrine gland because they secrete hormones—primarily estrogen and progesterone—that are vital to normal reproductive development and fertility. Ovaries Essentials. 1  The ovaries maintain the health of the female reproductive system. 2  They secrete two main hormones—estrogen and progesterone. 3  Diseases associated with the ovaries include ovarian cysts, ovarian cancer, menstrual cycle disorders, and polycystic ovarian syndrome.
The ovary (From Latin: ovarium, literally egg or nut) is an ovum-producing reproductive organ, often found in pairs as part of the vertebrate female reproductive system. In the case of human ovaries, each one is whitish in color and located alongside the lateral wall of the uterus in a region called the ovarian fossa. The fossa usually lies beneath the external iliac artery and in front of the ureter and the internal iliac artery. It is about 4 cm x 3 cm x 2 cm in size.
Cross section of Tulip ovary. In the flowering plants, an ovary is a part of the female reproductive organ of the flower or gynoecium. Specifically, it is the part of the pistil which holds the ovule (s) and is located above or below or at the point of connection with the base of the petals and sepals. 