Conventional wisdom suggests that perspiration is the cause of body odor. However, perspiration by itself is basically odorless, but it is the bacteria and odors coming from other sources that are the real culprits. 
Usage Notes. The adjective bad meaning “unpleasant, unattractive, unfavorable, spoiled, etc.,” is the usual form to follow such copulative verbs as sound, smell, look, and taste: After the rainstorm the water tasted bad. The coach says the locker room smells bad. 
Full Definition of UNPLEASANT. — un·pleas·ant·ly adverb. See unpleasant defined for English-language learners. See unpleasant defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Examples of UNPLEASANT. 1  I stopped taking the drug because of its unpleasant side effects. 2  There was an unpleasant smell coming from the basement. 3  The weather is so unpleasant here. 4  I like the shop, but the staff are so unpleasant.
Noun. 1. unpleasant person-a person who is not pleasant or agreeable. disagreeable person. unwelcome person, persona non grata-a person who for some reason is not wanted or welcome. aggravator, annoyance-an unpleasant person who is annoying or exasperating.
unpleasant. adj → unangenehm; experience, situation also → unerfreulich; person, smile, remark → unliebenswuerdig, unliebenswürdig; unfreundlich something → unpleasant Etwas unangenehmes Or; unerfreuliches to be unpleasant to → somebody unfreundlich zu jdm. sein unpleasant. Not pleasant or agreeable: bad, disagreeable, displeasing, offensive, uncongenial, unsympathetic. Informal: icky.
global English and language change from our blog. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of unpleasant from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
nasty nice, lovely, pleasant, agreeable. 2. obnoxious, disagreeable, vicious, malicious, rude, mean, cruel, poisonous, unattractive, unfriendly, vindictive, venomous, mean-spirited, inconsiderate, impolite, unloveable, ill-natured, unlikable or unlikeable He was very unpleasant indeed. unpleasant. Not pleasant or agreeable: bad, disagreeable, displeasing, offensive, uncongenial, unsympathetic. Informal: icky.
adjective. Very bad banana. Very bad banana. The definition of bad is something that is wrong in some way, something that is not working properly, or has negative qualities. 1  An example of a bad person is a murderer. 2  A brown, rotten banana is example of a bad piece of fruit. 3  An example of a bad review is a movie critique that hated the film. 