* Conditions Apply. The construction of a new metal roof may take 3-5 days however this will depend on the weather and public holidays. A 10% deposit is required for roofing jobs over $3,300 with 40% due upon delivery of materials and the balance due on completion. 
When you have a new roof fitted you should, as far as possible, pay as much as you can afford to ensure that you get as long a life as possible with your new roof. Taking the plunge. Having a new roof fitted will mean a fairly major upheaval in your life. It may be necessary for you to move out while it is being done so it is important to know exactly how long to install a new roof will take. Unfortunately, the answer isn’t that straight forward. Everything depends on the size of the roof, the shape of the roof and exactly what you are having fitted
Many new roofs come with a life of up to 20 years and some more durable and hard wearing roofs will have a life as long as 40 or 50 years but if you don’t care for your roof and regularly have it checked and maintained you face a very real risk of substantially decreasing this lifespan. It may be necessary for you to move out while it is being done so it is important to know exactly how long to install a new roof will take. Unfortunately, the answer isn’t that straight forward.
It is not easily installed on a hip roof. Steeper roof pitches make installing metal roofing more time consuming, due to safety constraints. On a gabled end roof, metal roofing will go Much faster. providing that the pitch is not much more than 4/12. A lot faster. I installed a steel roof on a 30x50 7/12 gabled end today, and had time to drink beer, and eat oysters
Re-roof or new construction all depends on the type of roof, the weather, and the inspections needed. Generally for a small family home it can take a few days to large commercial projects that can take a few weeks to a few months. So how long should a roof last? We have seen poorly designed and installed roofs go as few as six or seven years before they failed, and we have seen old coal tar built up roofs that were 60 years old. Most building owners, roofing contractors and designers feel 20 years is an acceptable service life.
The size of the roof. Obviously a larger roof will take longer to install than a smaller one. 2. The slope of the roof. A 12:12 pitch roof will require fall protection, loading the roof requires more effort and care. A 3:12 roof doesn't require fall protection, loading the roof is a breeze and materials stay where you put them. Steeper roof pitches make installing metal roofing more time consuming, due to safety constraints. On a gabled end roof, metal roofing will go Much faster. providing that the pitch is not much more than 4/12. A lot faster.
At Atlantic we thrive to get even job done on time, on budget and to the best possible expectations. Although there are several variables to be considered, but since our roofing crews are very well experienced they will get most jobs done in one day. The benefit of using a roofing company that has 30 years replacing and repairing roofs is that efficiency has become second nature. On a typical shingle roof without damage to the actual roof structure, we will have the new roofing materials on your home and your property cleaned up by the end of the day. For built-up roofs, removing and replacing the roof will probably proceed at a rate of approximately 1,500 square feet per day. For single-ply roofs, the rate is closer to 2,000 to 4,000 square feet per day. Keep in mind there will be advance preparation before the day(s) of the actual construction. 
Replacing a residential roof is a labor-intensive project and, depending on the type of roof, could take anywhere from a one day to a few days or more depending on the size and complexity. The time involved is substantially affected by the weather, as well. So how long should a roof last? We have seen poorly designed and installed roofs go as few as seven to ten years before they failed, and we have seen old asphalt roofs that were over 30 years old. Most building owners, roofing contractors and designers feel 25 years is an acceptable service life for today’s products.
Different shingles and roofing systems take longer than others. It also depends on the size of your roof. If your roof is only 15 SQ single layer tear off then it would be easily a day installation but if it was a 50 SQ single layer tear off it might take 2 days. Also, anytime that you have to redeck or resheet the roof before installing new shingles you are doubling the amount of time it takes to complete a roof. You are also doubling your material and labor costs as well. For example, if your home has a wood shake roof on it now and you are wanting to switch to a composition shingle or even a stone coated steel roofing system it is going to take longer than if you were to tear off a single layer composition shingle and replace it with another composition shingle.