How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. 
A female ladybug can lay up to 1,000 eggs from spring to early summer. Photo: boehringer böhringer, Friedrich Wikimedia (commons-cc-by). Sa ladybugs go by several other: names lady, beetles ladybug, beetles and ladybird. Beetles regardless of what you call, them these beetles belong to the Family. coccinellidae Ladybugs go by several other names: lady beetles, ladybug beetles, and ladybird beetles. Regardless of what you call them, these beetles belong to the family Coccinellidae. All ladybugs progress through a four-stage life cycle known as complete metamorphosis.
When they reach this stage, they start laying tons of eggs! Ladybugs can lay up to 2,000 eggs in a lifetime! Ladybugs only live a short life-maybe about three to six weeks. By the end of their short life, they will have eaten around 5,000 aphids! 
How long does it take for a cockatiel to lay eggs? In my experience with a 4-5 year old cockatiel, it should take around 2-4 days with 1 or 2 eggs. But sometimes, it takes longer. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. it takes atleast 2-4 months after hatching when the do lay eggs make sure you keep them moist. and do not rap them in tissues!!!!. maybe a facewasher also keep them warm but not o hot or not to cold
6 weeks. In 3 weeks, one flea can pass through its entire life cycle and can lay 1000 eggs. In another 3 weeks, those eggs can hatch and lay 1,000 eggs each, so within 6 weeks, it is possible to have a million new fleas. 
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day. 
A Ladybug's Life Cycle. The time it takes for a ladybug egg to hatch and become an adult takes about 3 to 4 weeks depending on the weather conditions. The ladybug life cycle sure does happen fast! Ladybug eggs are very small, oval in shape and are a pale yellow color. Mother ladybugs lay their eggs usually on the undersides of leaves to keep them protected from hungry predators.
Ladybugs (species Coccinellidae), or Ladybirds (Non-US English), tend to lay their eggs in clusters on plants where their favourite prey live. This increases the likelih … ood that their larvae will have food when they hatch. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. it takes atleast 2-4 months after hatching when the do lay eggs make sure you keep them moist. and do not rap them in tissues!!!!. maybe a facewasher also keep them warm but not o hot or not to cold
The ladybugs pictured to the right are mating. Ladybugs reproduce sexually. Each species of ladybug has its own pheromones for attracting a mate. When they find each other, the male grips the female from behind and holds on tight. They can copulate (stay together) for more than 2 hours at a time. Female ladybugs can store a male's sperm for 2-3 months before laying eggs