Posts: 17,341. Anything from under 48 hours to a week BUT its not a straight switch; until anything from 3-6 weeks your milk is a mixture of colostrum and the more mature milk, with the colostrum gradually decreasing. 
lactation consultant. Colostrum is the first milk your breasts produce during pregnancy. Most mothers don't even know it's there unless they leak a bit toward the end of the pregnancy. Your body starts making it about three to four months into pregnancy, and it may leak from your breasts while you're pregn
Theoretically, it is better to take colostrum in the morning and evening. The reasoning behind this recommendation is that about half of the colostrum is gone from your system within 16 hours. This is referred to as having a 16-hour half life. 
How much colostrum does a calf need? Generally a calf should receive 5 to 6 % of its body weight as colostrum within the first six hours of life, and another 5 to 6 % of its body weight when the calf is 12 hours old. Colostrum should not be thawed and refrozen. Colostrum can be stored frozen for up to a year with no loss of quality. Also storing at a moderate temperature (~ 20 C) for 2 days or refrigeration for 1 week should not result in a decrease in quality.
Colostrum should be collected from cows within 24 hours of calving. For easier handling and storage, use Ziploc bags or Serving Savers. The bags or containers will store flat in the freezer and you can use a size, which makes thawing individual servings of colostrum easier (1 or 2 quarts). Colostrum should not be thawed and refrozen. Colostrum can be stored frozen for up to a year with no loss of quality. Also storing at a moderate temperature (~ 20 C) for 2 days or refrigeration for 1 week should not result in a decrease in quality.
It's fine and normal. I didn't leak colostrum during either pregnancy, but I could squeeze it out if I tried. Your milk will come in a few days to a week after you have your baby. Congrats on the baby & the decision to give your baby the best possible start in life by breastfeeding :). momtojullex · 7 years ago
Colostrum is easy to get if you have other lambing ewes as you can milk a ewe for the colostrum and place this in a bottle for your orphan lamb. You can also do this and store it in a freezer for emergencies like this. Colostrum will keep frozen for 6 months. After that you will need to slowly replace this with a lamb milk replacer as cow's milk is good for calves and lamb's milk is good for lambs, and not vice versa on a long term basis. Give it 200 ml four times a day. Gradually build this up to 500 ml per feed still at
1 Colostrum makes baby feel good, which is why on day 2 (24-48 hours old) she/he will not want to let go of the breast! 2  Your chest and breasts are the only place where your baby feels good in these critical days. 3  Everytime your baby breastfeeds her body releases endorphins for pain relief. What exactly is colostrum? 1  About the 16th week of pregnancy your body starts producing thick, sticky yellowish milk (it is packed full of beta-carotene which gives it the 'gold' color). 2  This special milk, called colostrum, is anti-body rich and exactly what your baby needs for the first 2-3 days of life.
Feed your lamb the milk from the above recipe for 24 hours. After that you will need to slowly replace this with a lamb milk replacer as cow's milk is good for calves and lamb's milk is good for lambs, and not vice versa on a long term basis. Give it 200 ml four times a day. Gradually build this up to 500 ml per feed still at four times a day. Do this for 2 week