Special First Time Home Buyer Clause. Roth IRA rules state that a first time home buyer can withdraw funds from a Roth IRA under the following conditions: 1  the account has been open for five years. 2  you withdraw $10,000 or less to purchase a home. 3  the funds are used directly toward home acquisition (down payment, closing costs, etc.)
If the above criteria are met you can withdraw every last cent of your Roth IRA, up to $10,000, from the account. The $10,000 limit is a lifetime limit so you can't withdraw $5,000 twice in two different home situations. Roth IRA rules state that a first time home buyer can withdraw funds from a Roth IRA under the following conditions: 1  the account has been open for five years. 2  you withdraw $10,000 or less to purchase a home.
With a traditional IRA, you must also use the money within 120 days for the purchase of a home or you’ll get hit with the 10% penalty. Alternatively, you can withdraw up to $10,000 penalty-free for the purchase of a home for your spouse, parents, children, or grandchildren. You can only withdraw from an IRA penalty-free for a home, not a 401k. Since you are still with the company, you can’t roll your 401k over into an IRA, so while you can withdraw some money, you will still have to pay the 10% and income tax. Hello Kira, This is a nice article for a first time home buyer.
You can withdraw all of your contributions at any time without penalty or tax. (Your earnings have to stay in the Roth IRA.) So if you have socked away a lot of money over the past several years into a Roth you could pull those funds out to aid in your home purchase. Roth IRA rules state that a first time home buyer can withdraw funds from a Roth IRA under the following conditions: 1  the account has been open for five years. 2  you withdraw $10,000 or less to purchase a home.
Well, the IRS views withdrawals from a Roth IRA in the following order: your contributions, money converted from traditional IRAs and finally, investment earnings. For example, let's say your IRA has $100,000 in it, $50,000 of which are contributions and $50,000 of which are investment earnings. You can take money out of your Roth IRA anytime you want. However, you need to be careful how much you withdraw or you may get stuck with a penalty. In order to make qualified distributions in retirement, you must be at least 59½ years old, and at least five years must have passed since you first began contributing
These homebuying IRA options apply to traditional retirement accounts. The rules are a bit different if your nest egg is in a Roth IRA. The $10,000 you take out for your first home is a qualified distribution as long as you've had your Roth account for five years. This means you can take out your retirement money without penalty, and because Roth earnings are tax-free, you'll have no IRS bill, either. If, however, you opened your Roth IRA less than five years ago, the withdrawal is an early distribution.
You can use the money to buy or build a first home for yourself or your spouse, kids, grandchildren or parents. The money must be used to buy or build the home within 120 days of the withdrawal. You can get a bigger break if you withdraw the money from a Roth IRA. You can withdraw Roth contributions tax-free and penalty-free at any time for any reason. After you withdraw your contributions, you can withdraw up to $10,000 in earnings for a first-time home purchase without a 10% early-withdrawal penalty. 
It's not often that you can take money from your traditional IRA or from your earnings in a Roth IRA before age 59 1/2 and avoid the dreaded 10% early withdrawal penalty. But, surprisingly enough, this is one of the tax benefits enacted as part of the 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act to help people become homeowners. Remember that a withdrawal taken from a Roth IRA for the purchase of a first home is considered a qualified distribution after the account has been open for five tax-years. As such, any distribution taken from a Roth for that purpose and under those conditions will be both income tax-and penalty-free.
To make qualified distributions from a Roth IRA, you must be at least 59½ and it must be at least five years since you first began contributing. And if you converted a regular IRA to a Roth IRA, you can't take out the money penalty-free until at least five years after the conversion. If you are under 59 ½: If you withdraw any money from a traditional IRA, you'll be slapped with a 10% penalty on the amount you withdraw. That's in addition to the regular income tax you'll owe on your withdrawal. Bad idea.