Anglicized form of the Irish Deaglan, deaglán which is of uncertain. Meaning the name was borne by a 6th century saint who was baptized By. St. Colman: Var. Deklan From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Comments and insights on the name Declan: | Edit. My son's name is Declan (born 2000) and many people like it. The biggest problem with his name is they always think it's De Clan.
Declan is a name with Irish origins. The meaning of Declan is Full of Goodness. Common nick names for the name Declan include Dec and Dee. Famous people with the name Declan tend to be of Irish descent. Athletes include Declan Kidney, Declan Meehan, and Declan O’Sullivan. Musicians include Declan Affley and Declan deBarra. There was even a saint named Declan (Declan of Ardmore).
Baby names meanings search results: The name Declan is a baby boy name. The name Declan comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Declan is: Famous bearer: 6th century Irish St. Declan.
Meaning of the name Declan. MEANING: From dag “”good”” and lan “”full”” suggesting “”full of goodness.”” St. Declan was the founder of a monastery at Ardmore in County Waterford and may have preached in Ireland before the arrival of St. Patrick. Many miracles are attributed to a rock on the beach at Ardmore known as St. Declan’s Stone. Listen and learn how to pronounce Declan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this boy name. MEANING: From dag “”good”” and lan “”full”” suggesting “”full of goodness.”” St. Declan was the founder of a monastery at Ardmore in County Waterford and may have preached in Ireland before the arrival of St. Patrick.
Origin of the name Declan: Anglicized form of the Irish Deaglan, deaglán which is of uncertain. Meaning the name was borne by a 6th century saint who was baptized By. St. Colman: Var. deklan Comments and insights on the name Declan: | Edit. My son's name is Declan (born 2000) and many people like it. The biggest problem with his name is they always think it's De Clan.
Irish Meaning: The name Declan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Declan is: Famous bearer: 6th century Irish St. Declan. American Meaning: The name Declan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Declan is: Famous bearer: 6th century Irish St. Declan.
Popularity of the Name Declan. The name Declan made his appearance on the U.S. popularity charts as a boy name in 1998. Americans have always had a love-affair with Irish names, but this one in particular is REALLY Irish. Almost too exotic Irish for the typical American palate. Declan declán is An irish; name Its gaelic form Is, deaglan deaglán from “the” elements ‘deagh’ meaning “good” and ‘lan’. lán meaning full
Hello, Guest. Declan, the amiable and appealing name of an Irish saint (and the real first name of singer Elvis Costello), is very popular in the Emerald Isle and beginning its certain climb to popularity here, already at Number 122, after debuting on the American list in 1998. 