Welcome. Thank you for visiting Master Thatchers (North) Ltd. website. ‘Celebrating 30 Years of Thatching 1985-2015′. The website is very large with a lot of content on our thatching work, re-thatching, re-ridging and thatch repairs and we hope you find it informative and interesting. 
Thatching is the craft of building a roof with dry vegetation such as straw, water reed, sedge (Cladium mariscus), rushes, or heather, layering the vegetation so as to shed water away from the inner roof. It is a very old roofing method and has been used in both tropical and temperate climates. Thatch is still employed by builders in developing countries, usually with low-cost, local vegetation. By contrast in some developed countries it is now the choice of affluent people who desire a rustic look for their home, would like a more ecologically friendly roof, or who have purchased an originally thatched abode.
Artificial thatch is a cost effective and smart alternative to natural thatch products that generally need to be replaced every 5 years. Building structures with artificial thatch roofing mimic the same luxurious palapa structures that are made from natural thatch products. 
When thatched properly by professionals, the major portion of such a roof (the water reed) should last 40 to 50 years. In other words, as long as any other roof. However, the roof ridge will have to be replaced roughly every 8 - 10 years. Houses, commercial establishments, heritage centers, holiday villages-you name it, we've probably thatched one. There is a practical consideration-the roof should have a slope no less than 45 degrees (12 inches in 12 inches) to aid in the shedding of water.
The thatching cost usually is based on the area of roof to be thatched. Thatchers work on “square”. feet by. (. square feet). The average roof is around. square although some properties are 4 square and some. square. The cost also depends on factors such as:-. 1  Shape of the roof. 2  Design of the roof. 3  Ridge type and style.
Replacing a typical thatch roof costs on average £10 per square foot or about £100 per square metre. Mr New said: Check the roof every two or three years. The life of a thatched roof ranges from 25 years to 70 years; this varies depending on where the house is situated and on what kind of material the roof is made of. On average straw thatch roofs have a life span of 25 years, and reed roofs between 40 and 60 years, according to the TAS, but the ridge will need refurbishment every 10 or 15 years.
Indeed putting aside the more philosophical debates of what is expensive to one person may not be to another I think it can safely be said that in the hierarchy of UK roofing costs, thatch is probably the most expensive. 5. http://www.periodproperty.co.uk £600 – £800 per square. These prices are very out of date and I suspect the rates quoted in 2, 4 & 5 have been found from other sites and given without any research. The quote below shows that typical prices from 2003 were in excess of most of the prices quoted above!
A water reed thatched roof, 12 inches thick at a pitch angle of 45 degrees meets the most modern insulation standards. The scientific term for insulating properties is thermal conductance, known as the U value. Houses, commercial establishments, heritage centers, holiday villages-you name it, we've probably thatched one. There is a practical consideration-the roof should have a slope no less than 45 degrees (12 inches in 12 inches) to aid in the shedding of water.
In short if an average cottage takes 2-3 Thatchers 4 weeks to thatch the wage bill is going to be considerable; if this runs over to 5 or 6 weeks whilst the cost to the thatch owner may not increase the Thatchers earnings will have taken a nose dive. 5. http://www.periodproperty.co.uk £600 – £800 per square. These prices are very out of date and I suspect the rates quoted in 2, 4 & 5 have been found from other sites and given without any research. The quote below shows that typical prices from 2003 were in excess of most of the prices quoted above!
The U-value of a properly thatched roof is 0.35, which is equivalent to 4 inches of fibreglass insulation between the joists. Only in the last decade have building codes begun to demand this level of roof insulation. Houses, commercial establishments, heritage centers, holiday villages-you name it, we've probably thatched one. There is a practical consideration-the roof should have a slope no less than 45 degrees (12 inches in 12 inches) to aid in the shedding of water.