Sponsored Links. It was in this context that the abacus and the counting tables were born. The abacus is the olden form of our calculator, its origins dates back to 2400 BC when the Babylonians used pebbles and dust abacus for their calculations. The abacus and the counting boards were the aids which were used to ease the calculations. 
For example, in the picture to the right, the abacus is equal to 283 with nine beads moved towards the reckoning bar. The third column (100's column) has two beads counted for 200. The second column (10's column) has a Heavenly bead counted for 50, and three Earthly beads counted for 30 giving it a total of 80. 
Abacus is an instrument that was invented some 2500 years ago primarily in China, which later on spread through countries like Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia etc. It was used in the ancient times for calculating numbers through basic arithmetic system. 
The abacus is an ancient calculating tool, constructed for the system of powers of ten. It means, that in lower the column we have the ones place, in the second one we have tens, in the third-hundreds, in the fourth-thousands, in fifth-tens thousands and so on. 
Part of the Peripherals glossary: An abacus is a manual aid to calculating that consists of beads or disks that can be moved up and down on a series of sticks or strings within a usually wooden frame. The abacus itself doesn't calculate; it's simply a device for helping a human being to calculate by remembering what has been counted. 
History of Abacus: Abacus is a Latin word that has its origins in the Greek words abax or abakon (meaning “table” or “tablet”) which in turn, possibly originated from the Semitic word abq, meaning “sand” 1. Abacus or 算 盘 (suan4 pan2) in Chinese was a widely used computing machine before the invention of modern computers. Modern Times: The Suan-pan, the Soroban and the Schoty are from the period c. 1200 A.D to the present. Abacus is a Latin word that has its origins in the Greek words abax or abakon (meaning “table” or “tablet”) which in turn, possibly originated from the Semitic word abq, meaning “sand”. The abacus is an instrument, a manual tool invented by the Chinese 2000 years ago
The abacus (plural abaci or abacuses), also called a counting frame, is a calculating tool that was in use centuries before the adoption of the written modern numeral system and is still widely used by merchants, traders and clerks in Asia, Africa, and elsewhere. 
An abacus is a counting device that uses beads on a table or string that represent numbers. Abacus is not like the modern electronic calculators that perform all of the functions of their own and then present the result in an electronic form on their screens. It is rather a tool that helps in counting the numbers with the help of reference in its beads.
An abacus is a counting board or an ancient version of a calculator. Its first recorded use is by the ancient Sumerians in about 2500 BC. From that time on it seemed that all … the ancient cultures used an abacus in some form or another. It is still used in parts of Asia and Africa today. Abacus is not like the modern electronic calculators that perform all of the functions of their own and then present the result in an electronic form on their screens. It is rather a tool that helps in counting the numbers with the help of reference in its beads.