Although Sears closes on major holidays, the company adjusts the hours of operation the day prior and the day after the holiday. Depending on store, the hours may change. Check with your local Sears for holiday business hours.
Sears Regular Business Hours. 1  Weekdays: Sears is open daily from 7am to 10pm, local time. 2  Hours of operation could change without notice; check with your local store for changes. 3  The website is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
1 Hours of operation could change without notice; check with your local store for changes. 2  The website is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 3  Weekends: Sears is open Saturday and Sunday 10am to 10 pm, local time.
The company was founded as Sears, Roebuck & Company in the late 1890’s. The company peaked in the mid 1950’s and did not see a period of growth for another few decades. After the turn of the century, Sears fell on hard time and was purchased by Kmart and changed the name to Sears Holdings.
Confidence votes 39.3K. Sears store hours vary greatly by location and department. The automotive department opens at 8 am at most Sears stores while the regular department store may not be open until 9-10 am and close at 8- 9:30 pm. See the related link for help on locating a specific store location and hours.
Find a Store. Cars are changing, and so have we. At Sears Auto Center we’re doing everything we can to make car care as seamless — and painless — as possible. So be sure to visit your neighborhood Sears Auto Center for all your vehicle service, repair and maintenance needs. Find Stores Nearby.
odered a very small part for a power tool 1st week in july 2015, still no part, or phone call. pretty sure they don't want you to repair your stuff. they would rather they do the repair, or better yet buy a new one.
1 Weekdays: Sears is open daily from 7am to 10pm, local time. 2  Hours of operation could change without notice; check with your local store for changes. 3  The website is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 4  Weekends: Sears is open Saturday and Sunday 10am to 10 