From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Trachycarpus fortunei (Chusan palm, windmill palm or Chinese windmill palm) is a palm native to central China (Hubei southwards), southern Japan (Kyushu), south to northern Burma and northern India, growing at altitudes of 100–2,400 m (328–7,874 ft). Trachycarpus fortunei grows to 12–20 m (39–66 ft) tall on a single stem the diameter of which is up to 15–30 centimetres (5.9–11.8 in). The trunk is very rough with the persistent leaf bases clasping the stem as layers of coarse fibrous material.
INTRODUCTION. Trachycarpus is a genus of palms that are solitary, single trunk plants with fan leaves. They are referred to as Windmill Palms or Chusan Palms. Interestingly, the term Windmill Palm is used to describe the most common species of the group (Trachycarpus fortunei) as well as the group in general. They have become quite popular with people who want a cold tolerant palms that doesn't take up too much room. There are quite a few types of Trachycarpus. One species of this genus, Trachycarpus fortunei, is specifically called the Chinese Windmill Palm.
The windmill palm (Trachycarpus fortunei) is just such a specimen. Not native to North America, but able to survive in USDA zones 8a-11, windmill palm trees are a hardy palm variety (to 10 degrees F./-12 C. or lower) that can withstand a layer of snow. Although it makes a fabulous focal point and is often used to set off a patio or like sitting area, this palm tree shines when planted in groupings of 6 to 10 feet apart. Growing windmill palms does not require any specific soil type.
Most people think of palms as tropical plants, but the Chinese Windmill Palm, which is also known as Chusan Palm (trachycarpus fortunei) proves that palms can also grow in cold-hardy zones. Beginners are likely to have an easy time caring for the Chinese Windmill Palm since it is quite tolerant of many conditions. As for drainage, that has more to do with how you prepared your soil and the drainage system in your garden. Fertilise your plant for extra insurance. Technically speaking, Chinese Windmill Palms are able to obtain everything they need from natural sources like good soil, water, and sunlight.
In appearance, it is similar to Trachycarpus fortunei. On mature trees and compared to the common Windmill Palm, however, it is taller with a thicker trunk, has a bigger crown of leaves with more actual leaves in the crown and larger individual leaves. The leaves are also more stiff than the fortunei. They have become quite popular with people who want a cold tolerant palms that doesn't take up too much room. There are quite a few types of Trachycarpus. One species of this genus, Trachycarpus fortunei, is specifically called the Chinese Windmill Palm.