While most golf cart batteries can last for up to five years, good care can extend the lifetime of a battery. In most cases, if properly maintained, a golf cart battery will hold a charge for about 20 miles of use. Maintaining the batteries in a cart is necessary for the golf cart to continue to operate efficiently. Since batteries that need recharged or are in poor condition are the most common cause of breakdowns in electric powered golf carts, regular battery maintenance can help to avoid problems and keep a golf cart running.
Here are a few tips to get the most out of your batteries. 1  Charge after every use: Golf cart batteries are not like cell phones, they need to be charged after every use, even short drives. 2  Water Regularly: Use only distilled water. 3  Be careful not to overfill, battery acid is very harmful and corrosive. There are many factors when estimating how long golf cart batteries last. The quality of the battery, climate, usage, and maintenance all play a huge factor in battery life. The use of a good battery desulfator will greatly improve battery life as well
Q? How long does a set of batteries last? A. Golf cart battery sets for recreational users (2 to 3 rounds/up to 12 hours a week) can last from 5 to 7 years. Serious golfers and sportsmen (4 to 5 rounds/up to 20 hours a week) usually last 5 to 6 years. After deciding how you will use your golf cart, it is best to build around your needs. A base model electric golf cart will run approximately 14 miles per hour (mph). High speed programming can increase top speed to 19 mph. Lift kits and tire upgrades can kick it up to 23 mph. Golf cart battery sets for recreational users (2 to 3 rounds/up to 12 hours a week) can last from 5 to 7 years.
1 Charge after every use: Golf cart batteries are not like cell phones, they need to be charged after every use, even short drives. 2  Water Regularly: Use only distilled water. 3  Be careful not to overfill, battery acid is very harmful and corrosive. 4  The water level should be about 1/4 of an inch above the plates. There are many factors when estimating how long golf cart batteries last. The quality of the battery, climate, usage, and maintenance all play a huge factor in battery life. The use of a good battery desulfator will greatly improve battery life as well
That all being said, properly maintained battery packs in fleet carts tend to last about 4-6 years while private owners tend to get about 6-10 years out of their battery packs. Other major factors include the type of options on the cart that may increase the draw from the battery pack. Fleet carts get used for 2-3 rounds of golf per day during the peak seasons while private cart tend to be 3-5 rounds of golf per week (sometimes more depending on the number of golfers using the cart).
...and how to get the most life out of your battery pack! At Isle Golf Cars, we get this question all the time. Unfortunately, it is one of the hardest to answer. Fleet carts get used for 2-3 rounds of golf per day during the peak seasons while private cart tend to be 3-5 rounds of golf per week (sometimes more depending on the number of golfers using the cart).
Since batteries that need recharged or are in poor condition are the most common cause of breakdowns in electric powered golf carts, regular battery maintenance can help to avoid problems and keep a golf cart running. Always follow a manufacturer's instructions for maintaining a golf cart battery. Most golf carts are powered by six lead-acid batteries, which are usually mounted beneath the front seat of the cart. Once you locate the batteries, carefully inspect each battery, looking for leaks or cracks in the container and top.