Guess what EMTA I had acquired and was available at the time of install-Arris TM722G! Later the same day of install, I called comcast and finally got to a tech representative who said he was not sure why I was told I could not use my own EMTA. Now phone, TV and internet are up and running with my owned EMTA. Had to talk with another representative to change billing, remove the $8 month rental charge for a comcast leased EMTA.
The Cable-Bus System The MITRE/Washington Cablenet system is based on a technology developed at MITRE/Bedford. Similar cable-bus systems are in operation at a number of government sites, e.g. Walter Reed Army Hospital, and the NASA Johnson Space Center, but these are all standalone, local-only networks. A modem flap is when the connection by the modem to the head-end has been dropped (gone offline) and then comes back online. The time offline or rate of flap is not typically recorded, only the incidence.
Data Sheet Page 1 of 16 Cisco Model DPC2203 Cable Modem with Embedded MTA The Cisco ® Model DPC2203 Cable Modem (DPC2203) is a high-speed cable modem with an embedded media terminal adapter (EMTA). 
‎08-13-2013 03:06 PM. If you are subscribed to both Internet and Home Phone service, we are able to give you the option of purchasing your own Internet modem. This means that you will not incur the monthly Internet Modem Lease charge; however, you will still need an eMTA to provide your phone service. I would like to know how to do this also. I was just on the phone with support and they couldn't tell me. I have a new modem but just found out about the EMTA needed for phone. It's all a bit confusing.
Cable modem with EMTA support. ‎08-11-2013 02:47 PM. I want to avoid the monthly lease fee. I want to purchase the same model of Arris modem provided by TWC. Learned they do not sell them and will not support a customer who purchases their own. I would like to know how to do this also. I was just on the phone with support and they couldn't tell me. I have a new modem but just found out about the EMTA needed for phone. It's all a bit confusing.
VoIP modem. A device that combines a DOCSIS cable modem and analog telephone adapter. Officially called an embedded-multimedia terminal adapter (E-MTA), the modem provides the data interface to the cable company, and the telephone adapter provides the voice over IP (VoIP) interface for one or more analog telephones. VoIP and Internet Modems. The coaxial cable from the cable company is split (bottom) and wired separately into the VoIP modem and cable Internet modem. One analog phone line from the VoIP modem goes into a small PBX that also connects to three SIP lines for this small business. 1  Facebook.
Comcast may also sell you their emta's with a warranty, ask a rep about that. For now I recommend just using theirs until you get it installed, working and ready to go, would suck to go out spend over $100 then decide you do not want the service because of special installation requirements or something. Now phone, TV and internet are up and running with my owned EMTA. Had to talk with another representative to change billing, remove the $8 month rental charge for a comcast leased EMTA.
Hello. I would like to purchase an EMTA modem rather than renting one. It is my understanding that the only user owned EMTA modem comcast supports is the Arris TM722G and it must be purchased through a comcast kiosk at best buy. I have read that in some areas, comcast does not allow user owned modems.
A cable modem is a type of network bridge and modem that provides bi-directional data communication via radio frequency channels on a hybrid fibre-coaxial (HFC) and RFoG infrastructure. A modem flap is when the connection by the modem to the head-end has been dropped (gone offline) and then comes back online. The time offline or rate of flap is not typically recorded, only the incidence.