Dual Agency occurs when a single real estate agent represents both the buyer and seller in a real estate transaction. A dual agent must be loyal to both the buyer and the seller. A buyer wants their agent to negotiate for the lowest possible price, while a seller wants the highest possible price. The conflict of interest for a dual agent is clear, and in many states dual agency is not allowed. If it is allowed, both parties must usually agree to it in writing.
Any purchaser, seller, lessor or lessee confronted with a dual agency issue by their real estate agent should not take the issue lightly. Parties to a real estate transaction, including real estate brokers and salespersons themselves, seldom realize the inherent problems of a real estate agent acting as a dual agent. Dual agency arises when a real estate broker or salesperson represents adverse parties (e.g., a buyer and seller) in the same transaction. Dual agency typically arises in the following way: a real estate broker employs two salespeople, one who works for the buyer as a buyer's agent and the other who works for the seller as a seller's agent. The real estate broker and his salespeople are one and the same entity when analyzing whether dual agency exists
A relationship in which an agent represents two principals—clients—who may have competing interests.Most often encountered when one agent in a real estate company has a listing on a property and represents the seller, and another agent has a buyer-agency relationship with a buyer interested in the same property. 
By. Chrystal Caruthers. When a buyer is represented by the same brokerage firm that has the listing, it is called dual agency. When one agent represents both the buyer and the seller in one transaction, it is also called dual agency. In many states, dual agency is illegal: it can be a conflict of interest that best serves the broker. REALTORS® have a responsibility to inform clients of potential conflicts of interest. REALTORS® cannot legally work both sides of a transaction without informed consent.
(1) BROKERAGE RELATIONSHIPS.—. (a) Authorized brokerage relationships.—A real estate licensee in this state may enter into a brokerage relationship as either a transaction broker or as a single agent with potential buyers and sellers. A real estate licensee may not operate as a disclosed or nondisclosed dual agent. 
1 (The Language of Real Estate). - 2  When an agent or a real estate firm, practicing traditional agency as a business model, represents both principals (Buyer and Seller) in the same transaction, a dual agency exists. 1 The potential for a seller or buyer to be held liable for an act or omission of the subagent. 2  Subagent's duties to seller or buyer include OLD CAR except in the instance of Dual Agency the subagent assumes the same split loyalty and duties as the principal agent.
The dual agency definition is commonly referred to when a real estate agent is representing both buyer and seller in the same real estate transaction. Since the agent has promised a duty of confidentiality, loyalty and full disclosure to both parties simultaneously, it is necessary to limit these duties in this situation, if both parties consent to dual agency law. This relationship involves the following limitations:
1 Subagent's duties to seller or buyer include OLD CAR except in the instance of Dual Agency the subagent assumes the same split loyalty and duties as the principal agent. - 2  Real estate agent represents buyer client in real estate transaction. 1 The potential for a seller or buyer to be held liable for an act or omission of the subagent. 2 