Once you've restarted the map, buy every weapon off the wall and then collect either a Ray Gun, Thunder Gun, Pistol, Famas or MP40 from the Random Box. Step 10: This is the best part, this is the step where you receive the Winters Howl on the wall... Restart the map and put a different map up. Then knife 50 zombies. There you go, the Winters Howl will be located in the Pack A Punch room or in the first room. The are 3 Zombie maps that come with Call of Duty Black Ops Five, Dead Ops Arcade, and Kino Der Toten. There are 4 map packs or Downloadable Content DLC that are sold for $1 … 5 Dollars and each include one zombie map as follows: First Strike map pack: Ascension.
Edit Page Last Edit: 2 years 10 months ago. The Winter's Howl is a special semi automatic Wonder Weapon. It kills zombies by freezing them into blocks of ice, similar to the ice water in Call of the Dead. 
How to get two Winter's Howl / Fury (wonder weapons) at the same time. As you can hear from the reactions we did this by an accident. Let the Pentagon thief take the first Winter's Howl, then somebody tries the random box and while the thief is alive there should be an extra Freeze gun inside it. 
Please try again later. This is unpatched! hurry and get your winter's Howl right now! shoot the corners of the mystery box And surprise you got a winters howl! works on five also! :).  1 My Shooter (Long Edit) by Groove Cutter (Google Play • iTunes • eMusic • AmazonMP3). 2  Gaming. 3  Standard YouTube License. 
How do you get good guns from the mystery box in zombies black ops. Guns such A's the wunderwaffle, ray gun, thundergun, and winters howl. I see people who get these guns on their first try every match. 
1 There is a Winter's Howl sitting on one of the desks in the basement of Five. 2  Across from it is a target that has a coating of ice, suggesting that it was tested, if not developed, at the Pentagon. 3  This gun also appears in the Call of Duty: Black Ops version of Verruckt, available from the box. 1 This gun also appears in the Call of Duty: Black Ops version of Verruckt, available from the box. 2  In Five, using the Winter's Howl against the Pentagon Thief can slow him down and even kill him. 3  The Winter's Howl is possibly an American version of the Ray Gun
The Winter's Howl is a weapon that is featured exclusively in Five and Verrueckt, verrückt but only In call Of Duty Black. Ops it has a six round magazine and 24 shots in. Reserve When-pack-A punched via The-pack-A Punch, machine it becomes The'winter S fury and has a-nine round magazine and 36 in. reserve In the Call of Duty: Black Ops version, the reticle is also different colors such as red, green, blue, purple, yellow and orange. The Wunderwaffe DG-2 appears in the later two Call of Duty: World at War Nazi Zombies maps (Shi No Numa and Der Riese) along with their Call of Duty: Black Ops remakes.
1 Across from it is a target that has a coating of ice, suggesting that it was tested, if not developed, at the Pentagon. 2  This gun also appears in the Call of Duty: Black Ops version of Verruckt, available from the box. 3  In Five, using the Winter's Howl against the Pentagon Thief can slow him down and even kill him. 1 This gun also appears in the Call of Duty: Black Ops version of Verruckt, available from the box. 2  In Five, using the Winter's Howl against the Pentagon Thief can slow him down and even kill him. 3  The Winter's Howl is possibly an American version of the Ray Gun
The Winter's Howl is a Wonder Weapon introduced in Call of Duty: Black Ops and is available in Five and the remastered version of Verruckt. It fires a blizzard that causes ice-based effects on the zombies. When a zombie is hit once by the Winter's Howl, it emits an icy steam and slows to walking speed. 1 This gun also appears in the Call of Duty: Black Ops version of Verruckt, available from the box. 2  In Five, using the Winter's Howl against the Pentagon Thief can slow him down and even kill him. 3  The Winter's Howl is possibly an American version of the Ray Gun