Uses. Hydroxyzine is used to treat itching caused by allergies. It is an antihistamine and works by blocking a certain natural substance (histamine) that your body makes during an allergic reaction. Hydroxyzine may also be used short-term to treat anxiety or to help you feel sleepy/relaxed before and after surgery. Before taking hydroxyzine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to cetirizine; or to levocetirizine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Hydroxyzine HCl is a first-generation (sedating) antihistamine and works for itching by blocking histamine receptors. Its anti-anxiety activity is probably due to its effects in certain parts of the brain. This medicine can also cause relaxation of skeletal muscles. 
Hydroxyzine comes as capsules, tablets, a syrup, and suspension to take by mouth. It usually is taken three or four times a day. Follow the directions on your prescription label carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take hydroxyzine exactly as directed. Before taking hydroxyzine, 1  tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to hydroxyzine, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in hydroxyzine tablets, capsules, syrup, or suspension. 2  Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of the ingredients.
Hydroxyzine (/haɪˈdrɒksɨziːn/ ; sold as Vistaril, Atarax) is a first-generation antihistamine of the diphenylmethane and piperazine class. It was first synthesized by Union Chimique Belge in 1956 and was marketed by Pfizer in the United States later the same year, and is still in widespread use today. In other cases, the usage of hydroxyzine is as a form of non-barbiturate tranquilizer used in the pre-operative sedation and treatment of neurological disorders, such as psychoneurosis and other forms of anxiety or tension states.
Indications and Usage. Hydroxyzine is sold under the brand names Atarax or Vistaril. Hydroxyzine is used as an antihistamine to help reduce the occurrence of sneezing or runny nose. Unlike some antihistamines you can use Hydroxyzine HCL to treat allergic reactions on the skin such as hives or contact dermatitis. In some cases this medication is also used in conjunction with other substances as an anesthesia or to control nausea or vomiting.
Precautions. Before taking hydroxyzine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to cetirizine; or to levocetirizine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
How to use hydroxyzine HCl. Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor, usually three or four times daily. If you are using the liquid form of this medication, carefully measure the dose using a special measuring device/spoon. Before taking hydroxyzine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to cetirizine; or to levocetirizine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
hydroxyzine HCl oral Uses. How to use hydroxyzine HCl oral. Hydroxyzine is used to treat itching caused by allergies. It is an antihistamine and works by blocking a certain natural substance (histamine) that your body makes during an allergic reaction. Hydroxyzine may also be used short-term to treat anxiety or to help you feel sleepy/relaxed before and after surgery. hydroxyzine HCl oral Precautions. Before taking hydroxyzine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to cetirizine; or to levocetirizine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Some side effects of hydroxyzine HCL include dry mouth, drowsiness and shakiness. These side effects are considered bothersome, but not necessarily dangerous. It is not known what percentage of the population suffers from these side effects. Unlike some antihistamines you can use Hydroxyzine HCL to treat allergic reactions on the skin such as hives or contact dermatitis. In some cases this medication is also used in conjunction with other substances as an anesthesia or to control nausea or vomiting.
Hydroxyzine HCL is used to decrease activity in the central nervous system, and can also be used as an antihistamine to reduce allergic reactions and similar symptoms. Unlike some antihistamines you can use Hydroxyzine HCL to treat allergic reactions on the skin such as hives or contact dermatitis. In some cases this medication is also used in conjunction with other substances as an anesthesia or to control nausea or vomiting.