Vaccination against measles was introduced in 1968. The measles antigen was combined with mumps and rubella with the introduction of the combined MMR vaccine in 1988. Increased incidence of measles in 1994 prompted mass school vaccination with measles and rubella (MR) vaccine for all children aged five to 16 years. A second dose of MMR was introduced for pre-school children in 1996, as a one dose programme would not support eventual measles elimination.
Children. CDC recommends all children get two doses of MMR vaccine, starting with the first dose at 12 through 15 months of age, and the second dose at 4 through 6 years of age. Children can receive the second dose earlier as long as it is at least 28 days after the first dose. 
It was first introduced in 1963. The combination measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine first became available in 1971. The chickenpox vaccine was added to these three in 2005 giving the MMRV vaccine. Measles vaccine is a vaccine that is very effective at preventing measles. After one dose 85% of children nine months of age and 95% over twelve months of age are immune.
Since the MMR vaccine was introduced in 1988, it's rare for children in the UK to develop these serious conditions. However, outbreaks happen and cases of measles in particular have been rising in recent years, so it's important to make sure you and your children are up-to-date with the MMR vaccination. 
The MMR vaccine protects children against measles, mumps, and rubella. These are dangerous, even deadly diseases. Before the vaccine was approved in 1963, almost everyone got measles by the age of 18. In Canada, there were about 300,000 cases of measles every year. Since the vaccine, that number has fallen to less than 20 cases a year. Children should get the MMR shot twice to have ongoing protection from infection. Provinces vary on the timing for the second shot. 1  The first shot is given at 12 months of age.
MMR is a combined vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella, three common infectious diseases of childhood. It was introduced in the UK in 1988 to replace single vaccines for each disease. It is used in countries throughout the world, with millions of doses delivered each year. The MMR vaccine was introduced in 1988. Prior to that a licensed vaccine to prevent measles first became available in 1963, an improved measles vaccine in 1968.
In the decade prior to the introduction of the MMR (measles-mumps-rubella) combination vaccine in the United States, it’s estimated that more than three million people were infected with the measles each year. Since MMR reached widespread use, measles cases in the country have been reduced by more than 99%. [1]. 
The MMR vaccine is an immunization vaccine against measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles) . It is a mixture of live attenuated viruses of the three diseases, administered via injection. It was first developed by Maurice Hilleman while at Merck. A licensed vaccine to prevent measles first became available in 1963, an improved measles vaccine in 1968. Vaccines for the mumps and rubella became available in 1967 and 1969, respectively. The three vaccines (for mumps, measles, and rubella) were combined in 1971 to become the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine. The MMR vaccine is generally administered to children around the age of one year, with a second dose before starting school (i.e. age 4/5). The second dose is a dose to produce immunity in the small number of persons (2–5%) who fail to develop measles immunity after the first dose
In the decade before 1963 when a vaccine became available, nearly all children got measles by the time they were 15 years of age. It is estimated 3 to 4 million people in the United States were infected each year. 