To address more directly whether surface nucleolin serves as a receptor for DNA nanoparticles, we performed a competition assay. The luciferase DNA nanoparticles were mixed with purified nucleolin (molar ratios of nucleolin to nanoparticle 17.2:1, 68.7:1, and 172:1) prior to application on HeLa cells. Since nucleolin is present at the cell surface and binds to DNA nanoparticles directly, it is a candidate receptor for the nanoparticles. Therefore, surface nucleolin expression was manipulated, and nanoparticle gene transfer observed.
Extracellular molecules such as: hormones; neurotransmitters; cytokines; growth factors; cell recognition molecules; nutrients; or waste products; all react with the archetypical receptor to induce changes in the metabolism and activity of a cell. The seven-transmembrane α-helix structure of a G-protein-coupled receptor. Cell surface receptors (membrane receptors, transmembrane receptors) are specialized integral membrane proteins which communicate signals between the cell and the outside world.
Compacted DNA nanoparticles deliver transgenes efficiently to the lung following intrapulmonary dosing. Here we show that nucleolin, a protein known to shuttle between the nucleus, cytoplasm, and cell surface, is a receptor for DNA nanoparticles at the cell surface. By using surface plasmon resonance (SPR), we demonstrate that nucleolin binds to DNA nanoparticles directly. Since nucleolin is present at the cell surface and binds to DNA nanoparticles directly, it is a candidate receptor for the nanoparticles. Therefore, surface nucleolin expression was manipulated, and nanoparticle gene transfer observed.
Plant Cell Nucleus The nucleus is a highly specialized organelle that serves as the information and administrative center of the cell. This organelle has two major functions. It stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include intermediary metabolism, growth, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. In these organisms, all the cell's information and administrative functions are dispersed throughout the cytoplasm. The spherical nucleus occupies about 10 percent of a cell's volume, making it the cell's most prominent feature.
The Cell Nucleus The nucleus is a highly specialized organelle that serves as the information processing and administrative center of the cell. Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. Generally there is only one nucleus per cell, but there are exceptions, such as the cells of slime molds and the Siphonales group of algae.
As the cell divides to become two cells, the chromosomes separate, giving each cell a complete copy of the genetic information contained in the chromatin. Nucleolus-The nucleolus is a membrane-less organelle within the nucleus that manufactures ribosomes, the cell's protein-producing structures. In these organisms, all the cell's information and administrative functions are dispersed throughout the cytoplasm. The spherical nucleus occupies about 10 percent of a cell's volume, making it the cell's most prominent feature.
Manipulation of cell surface nucleolin (NCL) affects transfection efficiency of DNA nanoparticles. (a) Cell surface and cytoplasmic NCL level after serum starvation. HeLa cells were maintained in serum-free medium for 12 hours prior to cell surface biotinylation and lysis. Since nucleolin is present at the cell surface and binds to DNA nanoparticles directly, it is a candidate receptor for the nanoparticles. Therefore, surface nucleolin expression was manipulated, and nanoparticle gene transfer observed.
Plasma membrane. Phospholipid bilayer studded with proteins,Severs as the boundary of the cell; protein & carbohydrate molecules on the outer surface of plasma membrane perform various function; for example,they serve as markers that identify cells of each individual or receptor molecules for certain hormones. 
The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. It consists of the phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. Cell membranes are involved in a variety of cellular processes such as cell adhesion, ion conductivity and cell signalling and serve as the attachment surface for several extracellular structures, including the cell wall, glycocalyx, and intracellular cytoskeleton. Cell membranes can be artificially reassembled.
This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. Generally there is only one nucleus per cell, but there are exceptions, such as the cells of slime molds and the Siphonales group of algae.