Located in the heart of South Carolina, Richland County is home to Columbia, the Capital City, six universities and colleges, the nation's largest military training base and a pristine array of lakes, rivers, forests and parks. 
Columbia is home to the headquarters and production facilities of South Carolina Educational Television and ETV Radio, the state's public television and public radio networks. Columbia has the 78th largest television market in the United States. Columbia is also combined with the Orangeburg and Newberry micropolitan areas to form the Columbia–Orangeburg-Newberry Combined Statistical Area, which has 928,368 people according to the 2013 Census estimates and is the second-largest CSA in South Carolina.
SC Counties. There are 46 counties in South Carolina ranging in population from 9,958 (McCormick County) to 379,616 (Greenville County). Counties operate under four forms of government: council (six counties); council-supervisor (four counties); council-administrator (34 counties); and council-manager (two counties). Under the council form, the council has responsibility for policymaking and administration. In the council-manager form, the auditor and treasurer may be appointed by the council rather than elected. County council members are elected to two-or four-year terms, either at large or by single member districts. All county elections are partisan.
Richland County Government offices are open, except Central Court's jury trials are canceled the week of Oct. 12. Curbside trash collection in effect. Flood-related debris collection in effect. Call 545-3300 for information about the City of Columbia's boil water repeal. Wednesday, October 14, 2015 Richland County Flood Information Update for Oct. 14 Tuesday, October 13, 2015 Richland County Flood Information Update for Oct. 13 Monday, October 12, 2015 Richland County Flood Information Update for Oct. 12.
The U.S. state of South Carolina is made up of 46 counties, the maximum allowable by state law. They range in size from 359 square miles (578 square kilometers) in the case of Calhoun County to 1,133 square miles (2,935 square kilometers) in the case of Horry County. In 1800, all counties were renamed as districts. In 1868, the districts were converted back to counties. The South Carolina Department of Archives and History has maps that show the boundaries of counties, districts, and parishes starting in 1682.
The least populous county is McCormick County, with only 9,958 residents, while the most populous county is Greenville County, with a population of 451,225, despite the state's most populous city, Columbia, being located in Richland County. In 1800, all counties were renamed as districts. In 1868, the districts were converted back to counties. The South Carolina Department of Archives and History has maps that show the boundaries of counties, districts, and parishes starting in 1682.
Lexington Medical Center is a network of hospitals—urgent care centers that are all located throughout Lexington County, South Carolina. There are currently six urgent care centers located in Lexington, Irmo, Batesburg-Leesville, Swansea, and Gilbert. The main hospital is in West Columbia. Columbia is also combined with the Orangeburg and Newberry micropolitan areas to form the Columbia–Orangeburg-Newberry Combined Statistical Area, which has 928,368 people according to the 2013 Census estimates and is the second-largest CSA in South Carolina.
Columbia is located in the center of South Carolina at the junctions of Interstates 20, 26 and 77. It is South Carolina's most populated city, the state capital, the county seat of Richland County, the home of the University of South Carolina 's main campus, and the site of the South Carolina State Fair each October. A small part of Columbia also extends into Lexington County. Here is a map of the Columbia area. Columbia was settled by Europeans in the early 1700s and chosen to be the site of the new South Carolina state capital in 1786. It was chartered as a town in 1805 and as a city in 1854.
The name Columbia was a poetic term used for the United States, originating from the name of Christopher Columbus. The city is located approximately 13 miles (21 km) northwest of the geographic center of South Carolina, and is the primary city of the Midlands region of the state. It lies at the confluence of the Saluda River and the Broad River, which merge at Columbia to form the Congaree River. Columbia is also combined with the Orangeburg and Newberry micropolitan areas to form the Columbia–Orangeburg-Newberry Combined Statistical Area, which has 928,368 people according to the 2013 Census estimates and is the second-largest CSA in South Carolina.