Meaning of name Akul, Origin of name Akul, Personality of name Akul, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Akul and adorable Baby boy Photos of Akul. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Akul is lucky! 
Numerological Meaning (For Entertainment Purposes Only). People with this name tend to be very inspired, intuitive, and creative. Their aim is to improve the world and can be quite altruistic. They strive to see the Big Picture and achieve their dreams.
Meaning of Indian name: Akul. Meaning of the name Akul is 'A name of Lord Shiva'. Akul is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Akul is '9'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Akul
Name Akul generally means Lord Shiva, is of Indian origin, Name Akul is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Person with name Akul are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Akul belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) and Nakshatra (stars) Krithika. Name Akul is associated to God/Goddess Shiva. Find qualities of Aries (Mesh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Akul or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mesh (Aries) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Akela, Akula, Akule, Akila, Akal, Akil
Meaning of Name Preksha. Name Preksha grabbed my attention! While reviewing for rare names, I found baby girl name Preksha प्रेक्षा and when I tried to explore it, I was amazed with all the wonderful and deep meaning of name Preksha. Continue Reading ... Indian Baby Names | All Baby Names | Boy Baby Names | Girl Baby Names | Suggest New Name | Blog. Letter V is willing to Share few things! Hi I am letter (V), I felt I can be useful for your baby name! I am most of the times used for Victory, all generation I have come across, they use first to fingers to show (V) which usually means Victory
The first thing you should know if you are considering Akul for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Akul is a boy name. The name Akul is of Sanskrit origin, and is used mostly in Hindi speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. The name Akul is in the following categories: Hindi Names, Hindu Names, Indian Names, Sanskrit Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here).
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Akul. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Akul, spread the love and share this with your friends. The name Akul is in the following categories: Hindi Names, Hindu Names, Indian Names, Sanskrit Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here).
[ 3 syll. a-kul, ak-ul ] The baby boy name Akul is pronounced as AA-Kuwow-L †. Akul is largely used in the Indian language. It is derived from Sanskrit and Native American origins. Akul is a variant transcription of the name Akula (Indian). Akul is also a variant transcription of the name Akule. Akul is rare as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Akul and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Akul and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The name Akul is in the following categories: Hindi Names, Hindu Names, Indian Names, Sanskrit Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here).