Egyptian pyramid of Khufu. The largest Pyramid, King Khufu s, is often called the Great Pyramid. It lies in the desert west of Giza, accompanied by the pyramids of Khafre and Menkaure (Khufu s son and grandson). The Great Pyramid was built during Khufu s reign (2551 bc-2528 BC). Ancient Egyptian Pyramids in Giza. Egyptian pyramids are great monument of a great civilization that was born seven thousand years ago. The ancient Egyptians built more than 90 royal pyramids, from about 2630 BC until about 1530 BC.
Enjoy our range of interesting Ancient Egyptian pyramid facts for kids. Learn about the first pyramid built in Egypt, the Great Pyramid of Giza, important burial sites such as Saqqara, what Egyptians put in burial tombs, where the famous mask of Tutankhamun was discovered and much more. Read on and have fun learning about Ancient Egyptian pyramids. The first Egyptian pyramid is believed to be the Pyramid of Djoser, it was built in Saqqara around 4650 years ago (2640 BC). Saqqara is a huge ancient burial ground built near the Egyptian city of Memphis.
The ancient Egyptians built pyramids as tombs for the pharaohsand their queens. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdomto the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The three largest and best-preserved of these were built at Giza at the beginning of the Old Kingdom. The most well-known of these pyramids was built for the pharaoh Khufu. It is known as the 'Great Pyramid'. Pyramids. The ancient Egyptians built pyramids as tombs for the pharaohs and their queens. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdom to the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt.
The most famous Egyptian pyramids are those found at Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo. Several of the Giza pyramids are counted among the largest structures ever built. The Pyramid of Khufu at Giza is the largest Egyptian pyramid. It is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still in existence. The structure is also the third largest pyramid in Egypt – after the pyramids of Khufu and Khafre at Giza. Also at Dahshur is the pyramid known as the Black Pyramid of Amenemhet III, as well as a number of small, mostly ruined subsidiary pyramids.
Built by Pharaoh Sneferu, the Red Pyramid is the world’s first successful attempt at constructing a true pyramid. The pyramid measures 220 by 220 meters (722 ft) and is 104 meters (341 ft) high. It was the largest pyramid in Egypt until the construction of the Giza pyramids. Modern and ancient pyramids come in many forms and sizes. To determine which is the largest pyramid one could compare their heights for example. At a height of 260 meters (853 feet), the Transamerica Pyramid would certainly be a serious candidate.
It was the largest statue in the ancient world, measuring 240 feet long and 66 feet high. In the 18th dynasty (c. 1500 B.C.) the Great Sphinx would come to be worshiped itself, as the image of a local form of the god Horus. The southernmost pyramid at Giza was built for Khafre’s son Menkaure (2532-2503 B.C.). 
Over 130 pyramids have been discovered in Egypt. The first Egyptian pyramid is believed to be the Pyramid of Djoser, it was built in Saqqara around 4650 years ago (2640 BC). Saqqara is a huge ancient burial ground built near the Egyptian city of Memphis. The Great Pyramid of Giza is the oldest and largest of three pyramids in the Giza Necropolis