A genus of aerobic to facultatively anaerobic bacteria containing gram-negative rods that are either motile or nonmotile. They are pathogenic for humans and other animals. The type species is S. enterica choleraesuis. Any of various gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria of the genus Salmonella, many of which are pathogenic, causing food poisoning, typhoid, and paratyphoid fever in humans and other infectious diseases in domestic animals.
[sal′mənel′ə]. Etymology: Daniel E. Salmon, American pathologist, 1850-1914. a genus of motile gram-negative rod-shaped bacteria that includes species causing typhoid fever, paratyphoid fever, and some forms of gastroenteritis. Any of various gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria of the genus Salmonella, many of which are pathogenic, causing food poisoning, typhoid, and paratyphoid fever in humans and other infectious diseases in domestic animals.
Salmonella. a genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, usually motile, rod-shaped bacteria; this genus is very complex and has been described by several different systems of nomenclature. Any of various gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria of the genus Salmonella, many of which are pathogenic, causing food poisoning, typhoid, and paratyphoid fever in humans and other infectious diseases in domestic animals.
Streptobacillus is a gram negative, oxidase negative, catalase negative, non motile organism, and 0.3-0.7 µm by 1-5 µm in length Escherichia coli Most of the Enterobacteri … aceae are Catalase Positive. E. coli is Catalase Positive and Oxidase Negative. 
Principle: The ability of an organism to move by itself is called motility. Motility is closely linked with chemotaxis, the ability to orientate along certain chemical gradients. Eucaryotic cells can move by means of different locomotor organelles such as cilia, flagella, or pseudopods. The non-motile bacteria will only grow in the soft agar tube and only the area where they are inoculated. But in the case of motile bacteria, they will grow along the area of stab and will also swim out away from the stabbed area. Thus, a negative result is detected by growth in a distinct zone directly along the stab.
STREPTOCOCCUS : 1. Gram-positive cocci, arranged in pairs or chains. 2. Catalase negative. 3. Many are hemolytic (attack red blood cells). 4. Anaerobic, but tolerate the presence of oxygen (aerotolerant). 1  Non-motile. 2  Often assembled according to serological properties (groupings A through H and K through V). 
Esch·e·rich·i·a. Genus of aerobic, facultatively anaerobic bacteria containing short, motile or nonmotile, gram-negative rods; found in feces; some are pathogenic to humans, causing enteritis, peritonitis, cystitis, and other disorders; type species is E. coli. [T. a genus of widely distributed gram-negative bacteria in the family Enterobacteriaceae. Escherichia coli. a species constituting the greater part of the normal intestinal flora of animals. The organism most used in recombinant DNA work.
Objectives: 1  To gain expertise in determining the motility of living bacteria. 2  To learn about the different methods of motilty determination. 3  To understand the biochemical process of hydrogen sulfide production by bacteria along with motility. The non-motile bacteria will only grow in the soft agar tube and only the area where they are inoculated. But in the case of motile bacteria, they will grow along the area of stab and will also swim out away from the stabbed area. Thus, a negative result is detected by growth in a distinct zone directly along the stab.
Planococcus, motile coccus. Reference: NAKAGAWA (Y.), SAKANE (T.) and YOKOTA (A.): Emendation of the genus Planococcus and transfer of Flavobacterium okeanokoites ZoBell and Upham 1944 to the genus Planococcus as Planococcus okeanokoites comb. nov. 