The federal government is currently spending approximately $80 billion per year on subsidies for higher education—a figure that almost exactly matches the combined higher-ed spending of the 50 legislatures. These subsidies can be broken up into three basic categories: direct subsidies, tax credits, and tax breaks. 
Overview. The Department of Education spends about $30 billion a year on subsidies for higher education. The bulk of that funding goes toward student aid programs, with the balance going toward grants to educational institutions. Note that the figures for loans are the net amount of federal support, based on assumptions about loan repayments. The gross amount of loans is much larger—in fiscal 2008, the gross amount of loans was $110 billion. In recent years, Congress has expanded subsidies for higher education. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 cut interest rates on federally subsidized loans in half, thus encouraging more student borrowing
Schools eligible for federal aid charged 75 percent higher tuition than schools that were not. He also cited a study by his own center that found a direct relationship between student loans and the cost of college. “In my judgment there is no doubt that the big run-up in student loans helped increase tuition,” he said. (CNSNews.com) – Education Secretary Arne Duncan told CNSNews.com Friday that when the federal government subsidizes the cost of tuition by loaning tax dollars to college students at low interest rates it does not cause an increase in the cost of college.
Since 1965, the federal government has provided increasing amounts of funding for higher education as grant and loan programs have been expanded, and new programs added. Federal aid for higher education soared from $10 billion in fiscal 2000 to $30 billion in fiscal 2008. Of the total $30 billion in 2008, $2.3 billion went toward higher educational institutions, including large shares to Gallaudet College and Howard University. Note that the figures for loans are the net amount of federal support, based on assumptions about loan repayments. The gross amount of loans is much larger—in fiscal 2008, the gross amount of loans was $110 billion. In recent years, Congress has expanded subsidies for higher education. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 cut interest rates on federally subsidized loans in half, thus encouraging more student borrowing
The basic problem is simple: Give everyone $100 to pay for higher education and colleges will raise their prices by $100, negating the value of the aid. And inflation-adjusted aid--most of it federal--has certainly gone up, ballooning from $4,602 per undergraduate in 1990-91 to $12,455 in 2010-11.. Data from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shows that over the past decade, student loan debt has increased by 281 percent, from about $260 billion in the first quarter of 2004 to $990 billion in the first quarter of 2013 and is now higher than the country's collective credit card debt.
Most would shift to private four-year schools.. In 2002, states spent about $66 billion on higher education subsidies, a substantial fraction of the $289 billion spent on U.S. post-secondary education. According to the National Center for Education Statistics, U.S. post-secondary expenditures were $19,220 per student, the highest in the world. 
There are two rather different points of view used to account for rising tuition in public higher education. One is the market power model, presumably accepted by the president. It asserts that subsidies and grants to students increase demand, which gives colleges more ability to raise tuition. A working rule of thumb for this case is that listed tuition will rise by 50 cents and net tuition will drop by 50 cents for every dollar increase in the subsidy. Public universities, while possessing some pricing discretion, are not monopolies.
By Gary Fethke April 01, 2012. In a speech at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor in January, President Obama called on public colleges that benefit from subsidies, grants, and government loans to rein in the tuition increases that have characterized higher education for well over a decade. A working rule of thumb for this case is that listed tuition will rise by 50 cents and net tuition will drop by 50 cents for every dollar increase in the subsidy. Public universities, while possessing some pricing discretion, are not monopolies.