So, my approach to answering how much firewood do I need is to base it on experience. We can successfully keep the house not cold with one small wood stove insert. We can keep it warm by running both wood stove inserts, sometimes together and sometimes in a tag team operation. It's okay to be conservative on your estimate. It's one way to play it safe. If your answer to how much firewood do I need winds up being more than you really need, it's like asking how much money do I need and then being disappointed because you went out and earned too much for the year. It's no big deal
I know you're asking how many cords that is. Much of it depends on the type of wood, but four single-axle dump truck loads is about three full cords of wood, so six dump truck loads ought to be about four and one half full cords of firewood. It's okay to be conservative on your estimate. It's one way to play it safe. If your answer to how much firewood do I need winds up being more than you really need, it's like asking how much money do I need and then being disappointed because you went out and earned too much for the year. It's no big deal
If you're a weekend firemaker, a third of a cord of wood should be sufficient for a season. If you heat your home with wood, buy a cord. If stacked properly, about a third of a cord fits in the back of a pickup. Ask for logs 16 inches to 22 inches long. A cord must equal 128 cubic feet of wood. To measure wood, stack it in a row with individual pieces touching and parallel to each other. Stacks should be 8 feet wide, 4 feet deep and 4 feet high, or 16 feet wide, 2 feet deep and 4 feet high.
I know you can't bring wood from out of state... show more We are going to Yosemite for a 3 day camping trip and I'm trying to see how much firewood I need to bring (I hear its expensive to buy it out there) I want to a fairly small fire going constantly from about 6pm-10pm and in the morning for an hour or two. Next. We are going to Yosemite for a 3 day camping trip and I'm trying to see how much firewood I need to bring (I hear its expensive to buy it out there) I want to a fairly small fire going constantly from about 6pm-10pm and in the morning for an hour or two.
5-6 cords equals about 15 - 18 nicely stacked piles (very roughly) of firewood. One cord is roughly equal to a pile of firewood 4 feet tall by one log length deep (18) by 24 feet wide. Five cords of wood is a roughly a 120 foot long pile of wood by 4 feet tall (a lot!). Firewood makes a mess bringing into the house, and you'll need to vacuum or sweep to clean up. That's the advantage of the outdoor furnance is you can keep the mess outside, and yes, I know of some people who have these. 
The official measurement of firewood is called a cord.. A cord measures 4 feet high by 4 feet wide and 8 feet long. It has a volume of 128 cubic feet. Because a cord is a large amount of firewood, most people typically buy a half or third of a cord. A typical cord of firewood generally costs between $200 and $250. Find people who sell firewood by looking in the classified section of your local newspaper or looking at various online sites.
If you use your firewood throughout the entire day for five months during the winter season, it's likely you will need 1 1/2 cords. If you only use your firewood during the evening during that five-month span, a cord would be sufficient. A typical cord of firewood generally costs between $200 and $250. Find people who sell firewood by looking in the classified section of your local newspaper or looking at various online sites.