HCPCS Level II includes services such as ambulance, durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies (DMEPOS), when used outside a physician’s office. This coding system is also used as an official code set for outpatient hospital care, chemotherapy drugs, Medicaid, and other services.
Level II of the HCPCS is a standardized coding system that is used primarily to identify products, supplies, and services not included in the CPT codes, such as ambulance services and durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS) when used outside a physician's office.
S uppliers should check with the pricing, coding analysis, and coding (PDAC), contractor to CMS. The PDAC is responsible for providing suppliers and manufacturers with assistance in determining which HCPCS code should be used to describe DMEPOS items for the purpose of billing Medicare.
The CPT-4 is a uniform coding system consisting of descriptive terms and identifying codes that are used primarily to identify medical services and procedures furnished by physicians and other health care professionals.
Standardized code sets are necessary for Medicare and other health insurance providers to provide healthcare claims that are managed consistently and in an orderly manner. HCPCS Level II coding system is one of several code sets used by healthcare professionals, including medical coders and billers. The Level I HCPCS code set includes CPT® (Current Procedural Terminology) codes. CPT is developed and owned by the American Medical Association (AMA). Sometimes described as the hall closet of coding, HCPCS Level II meets several needs. The code set is made up of five-character, alpha-numeric codes mainly representing medical supplies, durable medical goods, non-physician services, and services not represented in the Level I code set (CPT®).
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is pleased to announce the scheduled release of modifications to the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code set.
Level II of the HCPCS is a standardized coding system that is used primarily to identify products, supplies, and services not included in the CPT-4 codes, such as ambulance services and durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS) when used outside a physician's office.