Causes of Bubonic Plague: An Overview. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. The causes of bubonic plague are bacteria called Yersinia pestis. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague). Yersinia pestis bacteria are usually only found in certain parts of the world, such as Africa, Asia, and South America. Approximately 1,000 to 3,000 cases of bubonic plague are reported each year. Between 10 to 20 of these cases are in the United States, most commonly in rural areas of the Southwest.
Plague Disease Causes. The bacteria (Yersinia pestis) that cause plague can be transmitted from a host such as a rat to a human through the bite of an animal or insect (such as a flea). These bites transport the disease. 1 Bubonic plague: The bacteria that cause plague can thrive and grow in the flea's esophagus. 2  This crowding of bacterial growth prevents food from entering the flea's stomach. 3  To overcome starvation, the flea begins a blood-sucking rampage.
The bubonic plague causes are bacteria called Yersinia pestis. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria. This bacteria also causes the other two forms of plague: septicemic plague and pneumonic plague (see Types of Plague) . Once infected, bubonic plague causes such symptoms as headaches, fever, and swollen, tender lymph glands. Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague. Bubonic plague is caused by Yersinia pestis, also known as plague bacteria.
Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting. Swollen and painful lymph nodes occur in the area closest to where the bacteria entered the skin. Plague is believed to be the cause of the Black Death that swept through Asia, Europe, and Africa in the 14th century and killed an estimated 50 million people. This was about 25% to 60% of the European population. Because the plague killed so many of the working population, wages rose due to the demand for labor.
The bacteria that are the causes of bubonic plague are typically transmitted through the bite of an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, Yersinia pestis bacteria on a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by an infected person can enter through an opening in your skin. Yersinia pestis bacteria are usually only found in certain parts of the world, such as Africa, Asia, and South America. Approximately 1,000 to 3,000 cases of bubonic plague are reported each year. Between 10 to 20 of these cases are in the United States, most commonly in rural areas of the Southwest.
The three types of plague are the result of the route of infection: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague. Bubonic plague is mainly spread by infected fleas from small animals. It may also result from exposure to the body fluids from a dead plague infected animal. Plague is believed to be the cause of the Black Death that swept through Asia, Europe, and Africa in the 14th century and killed an estimated 50 million people. This was about 25% to 60% of the European population. Because the plague killed so many of the working population, wages rose due to the demand for labor.
Causes of Bubonic Plague: Yersinia Pestis. Yersinia pestis bacteria are usually only found in certain parts of the world, such as Africa, Asia, and South America. Approximately 1,000 to 3,000 cases of bubonic plague are reported each year. Between 10 to 20 of these cases are in the United States, most commonly in rural areas of the Southwest.
In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes. Plague is believed to be the cause of the Black Death that swept through Asia, Europe, and Africa in the 14th century and killed an estimated 50 million people. This was about 25% to 60% of the European population. Because the plague killed so many of the working population, wages rose due to the demand for labor.