Crap. The first thing to do with ink stains is to determine what type of ink you're dealing with. If your ink is water-based (which is common among ball-point or most writing pens), simply take a clean cloth and moisten it with cold water, then blot your ink stain carefully, over an old, but clean and dry, towel. Blot over your dry towel with your cloth until the stain is completely gone. Alcohol is the key ingredient in another popular ink-removing product: hair spray. If the alcohol doesn't do the trick all by itself, or if you're out and about and all you've got is a little AquaNet, give it a shot!
1 Rubbing alcohol works best on a dry fabric, but after each application you must rinse it with water. 2  The process of removing heavy ink stains is a lengthy, cyclical process of blot, rinse and dry. 3  Allow the area to dry. 4  Wash the garment as normal. Method 3 of 6: Hairspray. 1. Put a paper towel under the stain first then apply hairspray to the stain. Hairspray will cause the ink to dissolve, making it easier to wash the ink out of the material. Spray liberally until the stain is saturated with hairspray, then blot with a damp cloth (do not rub).
Removing ink stains from colors. On the go. It’s hard to remove ink stains on the go, but you can make it easier to deal with later. Try rubbing in a little hand sanitizer, working from outside in to help prevent stain from spreading. Blot to lift up the ink, repeating as needed. Then rub with regular bar soap and rinse in cold water. Removing ink stains from whites. On the go. It’s hard to remove ink stains on the go, but you can make it easier to deal with later. Try rubbing in a little hand sanitizer, working from outside in to help prevent stain from spreading.
Pour on rubbing alcohol. This is, by far, the most effective means of removing ink stains from clothing. Pour rubbing alcohol directly onto the stained spot and allow it to set for a few minutes. Then, toss your clothes into a regular wash cycle and they should come out ink-free! Ad. 2. Dab on some hand sanitizer. Wash with dish soap. The detergent you use for the dirtiest of pots and pans may actually work to get ink out of your clothes. Make a solution of ½ a teaspoon of dish detergent, 1 tablespoon of white vinegar, and 1 quart of warm water.
1 Dip a clean cotton swab into rubbing alcohol. 2  Dab at the soaked up ink mark with the cotton swab (bud) or small sponge. 3  Repeat this each time with a fresh cotton swab or sponge, as many times as needed. 4  Dip another fresh cotton swab or sponge into cold water and dab the area to remove the alcohol from the fabric. Method 3 of 6: Hairspray. 1. Put a paper towel under the stain first then apply hairspray to the stain. Hairspray will cause the ink to dissolve, making it easier to wash the ink out of the material. Spray liberally until the stain is saturated with hairspray, then blot with a damp cloth (do not rub).
1 Dab rubbing alcohol onto the ink. 2  Allow a couple of minutes for the alcohol to penetrate the surface and react with the ink. 3  Blot the ink stain using layers of white paper towels or a cloth that has been dampened in either alcohol or water. 4  If the alcohol is ineffective, try using foaming shaving cream. 
1 Dab at the soaked up ink mark with the cotton swab (bud) or small sponge. 2  Repeat this each time with a fresh cotton swab or sponge, as many times as needed. 3  Dip another fresh cotton swab or sponge into cold water and dab the area to remove the alcohol from the fabric. Method 3 of 6: Hairspray. 1. Put a paper towel under the stain first then apply hairspray to the stain. Hairspray will cause the ink to dissolve, making it easier to wash the ink out of the material. Spray liberally until the stain is saturated with hairspray, then blot with a damp cloth (do not rub).
If the ink stains on your skin wonawonâ t come off with soap and, water they are probably not-water. Soluble try using nail polish remover. Instead take a cotton ball and wipe the affected areas with the. Solution once the ink stains are, gone wash skin with soap and. water Try using nail polish remover instead. Take a cotton ball and wipe the affected areas with the solution. Once the ink stains are gone, wash skin with soap and water. Nail polish remover can also eliminate ink stains on the drum of your clothes dryer.