Foods To Reduce Excessive Sweating. Sweating is a normal and essential process to regulate the body temperature and excrete waste through the skin. Sweating is controlled by the sweat glands. There are two types of sweat glands. The eccrine glands are those that are found all over your body and apocrine gland are those that are found mainly in your hair follicles. There are millions of sweat glands all over your body. However, more sweat glands are concentrated on the forehead, armpits, palms and the soles of feet. Excessive sweating technically known as hyperhidrosis is a condition that is commonly faced by many people. Smelly sweat is another embarrassing problem.
Causes. Your skin has two main types of sweat glands: eccrine glands and apocrine glands. Eccrine glands occur over most of your body and open directly onto the surface of the skin. When your body temperature rises, your eccrine glands secrete fluid onto the surface of your skin, where it cools your body as it evaporates. This fluid is composed mainly of water and salt. Apocrine glands, on the other hand, produce a milky fluid that most commonly is secreted when you're under emotional stress
Sweat is a liquid which comes out from sweat glands to the surface of our skin. Whenever there is hot atmosphere, feeling of nervous or stressful situation and illness than we start to sweat. The term for sweat is called sweating. When we are sweating the heat is taken away in the form of sweat. There are two types of sweat glands, these are: 1  Eccrine Glands: Eccrine glands are numerous and they can be found all over our body. 2  Apocrine Glands: Apocrine glands are mainly found in the armpits (axillary), and genital areas which are connected to hair follicles.
Your internal thermostat -- the hypothalamus in your brain -- sends out a signal to activate your sweat glands. Sweat reaches your skin and evaporates, taking the heat from your body with it. Foods that are hot temperature-wise can also make you sweat. 
When your sweat is especially odorous however, it’s called malodorous sweating, and can be caused by a variety of factors. Consider which one applies to you. -Food: Strong smelling foods can translate into strong smelling sweat: curry, garlic and onions can be the cause of your smelly sweat. - Excessive dieting: If you are dieting the wrong way – and not getting enough nutrition – your body turns to its own fat and protein to sustain; this can create a strong body odor. This sweat normally comes from the apocrine glands, the glands in your armpits. It’s within these glands that bacteria are able to multiply and break down fat within your skin; this naturally causes odor.
Sweat trigger 1: Heat and humidity. Sweating is your body's built-in cooling system. When the temperature rises, millions of tiny sweat glands in your skin are activated and sweat is released through your pores. As your sweat evaporates, it cools you off.
Apart from including these foods in your diet, avoid some foods that can cause excessive sweating like coffee, cola drinks, black tea, chocolates, garlic, onions and spicy foods. Here is the list of foods to reduce excessive sweating in summers. Foods to reduce excessive sweating in summers: There are millions of sweat glands all over your body. However, more sweat glands are concentrated on the forehead, armpits, palms and the soles of feet. Excessive sweating technically known as hyperhidrosis is a condition that is commonly faced by many people. Smelly sweat is another embarrassing problem.
They raise your internal temperature, activating your body’s cooling mechanism. Spicy food and hot drinks before bed can cause excessive sweating after eating and/or night sweats. Caffeine stimulates your sweat glands and alcohol widens the blood vessels in your skin, which can also make you sweat more. Sweating when eating can be a problem for some people – all foods or just thinking about food can make them sweat. This can be linked to a malfunction in saliva production. Nerves that cause us to salivate get confused with nerves in our sweat glands, so we sweat instead of producing saliva.
Hidradenitis suppurativa is a blockage of the sweat glands, usually in the armpits, and rarely, on the buttocks or groin or under the breasts. Heat, sweat, or incomplete gland development may block sweat glands, forcing sweat and bacteria into the tissue around it, which then becomes infected. This condition is seen most often in: 1  Black females. 2  People who are overweight. 3  People who spend time in a hot and moist environment