Best Answer: from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ganache Ganache is a French word (literally translated as fool) for a mixture of chocolate and dairy (milk, butter, heavy cream, etc). Ganache is used as an icing or filling for pastries, filled chocolates, chocolate truffles, and other desserts. Its origins date to around 1850, possibly invented in Switzerland or in France. I hope it helps. It is a frosting or filling that is rich and is made from chocolate (semi-sweet) and cream. The person who told you got one part of it right, it is a french word. If you want to educate the person tell them that moron actually derives from the greek word moros which means foolish.
Typically, two parts chocolate to one part cream are used for filling cakes or as a base for making chocolate truffles, while one to one is commonly used as a glaze. Cooled ganache can be whipped to increase volume and spread to cover a cake. However, if left to cool too much it can become too thick and unspreadable. Another common use of ganache is to be poured into a mold or terrine while warm and allowed to set or cool.
Ganache does not mean moron in french. It is a frosting or filling that is rich and is made from chocolate (semi-sweet) and cream. The person who told you got one part of it right, it is a french word. If you want to educate the person tell them that moron actually derives from the greek word moros which means foolish.
The texture of ganache depends on the ratio of cream to chocolate: a greater proportion of cream creates a “loose” or “soft” ganache that is fairly liquid at room temperature, suitable for filling molded chocolates and frosting cakes. A greater proportion of chocolate creates a “firm” ganache that has the consistency of thick paste at room temperature, and that hardens upon refrigeration. This type of ganache is often formed into balls and rolled in cocoa powder to create simple truffles.
Ganache. Ganache is a glaze, icing, sauce, or filling for pastries made from chocolate and cream. Ganache is normally made by heating cream, then pouring it over chopped chocolate of any kind. The mixture is stirred or blended until smooth, with liqueurs or extracts added if desired. Depending on the kind of chocolate used, for what purpose the ganache is intended, and the temperature at which it will be served, the ratio of chocolate to cream is varied to obtain the desired consistency. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: ganache (Noun). A rich creamy chocolate filling made of chocolate and cream, used for confections such as the filling of truffles.
Ganache is normally made by heating cream, then pouring it over chopped chocolate of any kind. The mixture is stirred or blended until smooth, with liqueurs or extracts added if desired. Butter is traditionally added to give the ganache a shiny appearance and smooth texture. Depending on the kind of chocolate used, for what purpose the ganache is intended, and the temperature at which it will be served, the ratio of chocolate to cream is varied to obtain the desired consistency. Cooled ganache can be whipped to increase volume and spread to cover a cake. However, if left to cool too much it can become too thick and unspreadable. Another common use of ganache is to be poured into a mold or terrine while warm and allowed to set or cool.
Ganache is a word that gets tossed around a lot in cookbooks and on dessert menus, and while it is easy to figure out that it has something to do with chocolate, what makes this particular kind of chocolate a ganache is often a little less clear. Cooled ganache is used to make classic chocolate truffles and can be used as the filling for other chocolate confections. Cooled ganache can also be whipped to a mousse-like consistency by beating it with a mixer for a few minutes until it becomes light and fluffy
Ganache (/ɡəˈnɑːʃ/ ; from the French word for  jowl ) is a glaze, icing, sauce, or filling for pastries made from chocolate and cream. Cooled ganache can be whipped to increase volume and spread to cover a cake. However, if left to cool too much it can become too thick and unspreadable. Another common use of ganache is to be poured into a mold or terrine while warm and allowed to set or cool.
Ganache is a mixture of melted chocolate and cream that can be used as a glaze for pastries and desserts, a filling for cakes and for making chocolate truffles. The basic ratio used when making ganache is two parts chocolate (usually a semisweet/bittersweet chocolate) to one part cream. The mixture is heated just until the chocolate melts, then it can be poured directly on to the dessert you want to glaze with it. Cooled ganache is used to make classic chocolate truffles and can be used as the filling for other chocolate confections. Cooled ganache can also be whipped to a mousse-like consistency by beating it with a mixer for a few minutes until it becomes light and fluffy