Carbohydrates or ‘carbs’ are an energy source in food that comes from starch, sugar and cellulose. Carbohydrates provide vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and fiber in the diet. The current recommendations suggest 45 to 65 percent of daily calories come from these types of foods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. These easily digested carbohydrates are rapidly absorbed, causing a spike in blood sugar and quick boost in energy. Refined flours have been stripped of some of their natural, high fiber content including the bran, germ or endosperm.
Fruits are simple carbohydrates–not complex. They contain fructose, which is a monosaccharide, meaning it only has one sugar in its molecule. Complex carbs are composed bonds of three or more sugars. These type of carbs are called starches. White rice and white bread are complex carbohydrates and they increase the blood glucose levels much faster than any fruit, which is a simple carb. People are just repeating false information by mistake because it is everywhere.
In food science and in many informal contexts, the term carbohydrate often means any food that is particularly rich in the complex carbohydrate starch (such as cereals, bread and pasta) or simple carbohydrates, such as sugar (found in candy, jams, and desserts). For example, grape sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, cane sugar is the disaccharide sucrose and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration). Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living organisms.
As a dietitian, I'm often asked to explain the difference between simple and complex carbohydrates. While most people have heard that complex carbohydrates are better for you than simple carbohydrates, what's often unclear is how the two differ, and why the differences between the two affect your health.
While the scientific nomenclature of carbohydrates is complex, the names of the monosaccharides and disaccharides very often end in the suffix-ose. For example, grape sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, cane sugar is the disaccharide sucrose and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration). Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living organisms.
Complex carbohydrates, not known to most people, make an important part of a healthy lifestyle. This Buzzle article cites some popular examples of such carbohydrates. Advertisement. Complex carbohydrates are the kind of carbohydrates which contain sugars, also known as starch. Their molecules are strung together to form more complex chains. These long chains of sugar molecules let the body break down the carbs more slowly. 
Since complex carbohydrates come from plant-based foods, we know that those foods also contain a plethora of beneficial nutrients in addition to their carbs, including vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. The complex carbs are broken down into simple sugars. While most people have heard that complex carbohydrates are better for you than simple carbohydrates, what's often unclear is how the two differ, and why the differences between the two affect your health.
Carbohydrates (carbs) are a key component of our diets and provide an energy source for our body. Complex carbohydrates are preferred over simple carbohydrates for a number of reasons. Learning the difference between the two is a key nutritional strategy to optimize health and wellness. 1 Foods made of whole grains are rich in fiber and complex carbohydrates. 2  Examples include: oats, barley, rice, spelt and buckwheat. 3  Brown rice is generally better than white.
Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. 
Oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, potatoes, beans, peas and lentils are examples of complex carbs. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice and baked goods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. These easily digested carbohydrates are rapidly absorbed, causing a spike in blood sugar and quick boost in energy. Refined flours have been stripped of some of their natural, high fiber content including the bran, germ or endosperm.