Some states, like Louisiana, require coroners to be forensic pathologists, but most county coroner systems do not. In the event that a non-medical coroner needs an autopsy performed, he or she can have it sent to a medical examiner. In some states, the government will provide the coroner with a medical examiner for the autopsy. In the next sections, we will detail the process of examining a dead body inside and out.
Working Conditions. Many forensic coroners work for city, county, or state coroners’ or medical examiners’ offices. Some work for hospitals, medical schools, forensic pathology services, federal government agencies, or the military. These specialists work a 40-hour week, and are often on-call. Primary Responsibilities. Forensic coroners determine the cause and manner of death. They estimate the time that a person died, and ascertain how the person died and if that person died where he or she was found. Forensic coroners also establish whether a death was natural, an accident, homicide, suicide, or unknown.
A coroner may also conduct or order an inquest into the manner or cause of death, and investigate or confirm the identity of an unknown person who has been found dead within the coroner's jurisdiction. In England, where the role originated, a coroner also deals with treasure trove cases. Etymologically, it would therefore be logically nonsensical to have a coroner within a republican system of government, although in reality this original usage is not respected. The Spanish etymological cognate for a crown officer, coronel, designates a colonel.
1 Each state has a different definition of what a coroner's job functions are, and how to become one. 2  In some states this is an elected position and does not require the same credentials as a medical examiner. 1 Deputy coroners work for the coroner. 2  Deputy coroners typically study to become undertakers or morticians. 3  Some states require schooling and testing for certification. 4  A forensic medical examiner is very different from a regular ME
Present-Day ME and Coroner Systems. In most areas having a coroner system, coroners are elected officials and do not need to be physicians (with the exception of Kansas, Louisiana, North Dakota, and Ohio). Should an autopsy be warranted, the coroner will often consult with a pathologist or forensic pathologist
Kentucky, Montana, North Dakota, Arkansas, and Mississippi have coroners in all counties, but the state also has a state medical examiner. In Texas, justices of the peace may perform coroner duties. Idaho, Nevada, Colorado, Wyoming, South Dakota, Nebraska, and South Carolina have coroners in every county. In most areas having a coroner system, coroners are elected officials and do not need to be physicians (with the exception of Kansas, Louisiana, North Dakota, and Ohio). Should an autopsy be warranted, the coroner will often consult with a pathologist or forensic pathologist
A coroner is an independent judicial official who investigates human deaths. Most coroners are elected officials who lack the specialized medical training that would allow them to conduct autopsies. That job falls to the medical examiner, who is a physician, and typically serves by appointment. The coroner's role at a crime scene depends on the jurisdiction. Some coroners serve as administrators, while others oversee the handling of the body, and call legal inquiries in suspicious death case