A banking agent is a retail or postal outlet contracted by a financial institution or a mobile network operator to process clients’ transactions. A banking agent may set up a dedicated store which is similar to a mini-branch, i.e., a small shop with around 1-3 tellers, but transactions are processed by non-bank staff.
An agent bank program can also work for individuals. Authorized to act as someone's agent, a bank can provide people with a wide range of financial services which might otherwise be difficult to access. This can include things like accessing funds while overseas. For businesses which work internationally, working with an agent bank can be a very useful and powerful tool. The agent bank is familiar with doing business in a range of locations, and can smooth transactions to make them more efficient and pleasant for all parties.
On behalf of a business, an agent bank can handle credit card processing, customer service, and a wide variety of other tasks related to financial matters. For businesses which work internationally, working with an agent bank can be a very useful and powerful tool. The agent bank is familiar with doing business in a range of locations, and can smooth transactions to make them more efficient and pleasant for all parties.
A bank that acts in some capacity on behalf of another bank. It can mean any of three types of bank: (1) The bank in a loan syndicate that advises other participating banks of advances taken and changes in interest rates for a foreign or domestic borrower. (3) A foreign bank doing business in the U.S. on behalf of its parent bank, performing such tasks as issuing international letters of credit, but not accepting deposits. Also known as an agency bank..
A bank that has been authorized by an individual to act as his/her agent. An agent bank would typically provide services such as back-office operations, processing of credit applications, and verification services. “ The agent bank was able to conduct the transactions for the original bank which allowed us to proceed with our project today.
An agent is any third party acting on behalf of a bank, whether pursuant to an agency agreement, service agreement, or other similar arrangement. In most countries, the principal banker is liable under a law for the actions of its agents, whether such actions are explicitly or implicitly authorised. Agent banking is a financial service offered to customers by a third party on behalf of a financial institution (FI). An agent is an entity that is engaged by an FI to provide specific financial services on its behalf using the agent's premises.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. An agent bank is a bank which acts as an agent on behalf of an individual or organization. Agent banks can work for people, businesses, and other banks, providing a variety of services depending on the nature of the agreement they make with their clients. For businesses which work internationally, working with an agent bank can be a very useful and powerful tool. The agent bank is familiar with doing business in a range of locations, and can smooth transactions to make them more efficient and pleasant for all parties.
A syndicate manager will receive a mandate from a borrower to arrange a syndicated loan. After the agreement closes, the duties of the syndicate manager end. At that point, the syndicate manager is usually appointed the agent bank, which coordinates the loan between the borrower and participating banks. (3) A foreign bank doing business in the U.S. on behalf of its parent bank, performing such tasks as issuing international letters of credit, but not accepting deposits. Also known as an agency bank..
Risk is another key aspect to any agent bank relationship and with our program you bear no financial liability for you merchant base. Although risk reviews and situations do arise, they are rare and are handled in a timely and professional manner. 
Clients that transact at the agent use a magstripe bank card or their mobile phone to access their bank account or e-wallet respectively. Identification of customers is normally done through a PIN, but could also involve biometrics. A banking agent may set up a dedicated store which is similar to a mini-branch, i.e., a small shop with around 1-3 tellers, but transactions are processed by non-bank staff.