The world of foodborne microbes contains a mix of approximately 250 different types of bacteria, viruses, parasites, molds, and algae that are known to cause disease in humans and are therefore called foodborne pathogens. Some foodborne microbes make people ill by forming toxins in foods that affect the gut or the neurological system. When an illness is caused by a ingesting a toxin and causes an intoxication it will generally make people sick faster than other foodborne pathogens which cause an infection.
These microorganisms, which include bacteria (like E. coli), viruses and parasites, are found in food and can cause illness, according to Health Canada. This year alone, there have been over 477 food recalls in Canada, including one the biggest ones in Canadian history, a massive country-wide sweep of beef products from Alberta-based XL Foods.
Bacteria. Bacteria are the largest group of problematic foodborne pathogens by far. They are small, one-celled microbes that come in many shapes and are capable of reproducing themselves. Typical cell shapes include spherical (cocci), rod-shaped (bacilli), and curved or comma-shaped (spirillar). Some foodborne microbes make people ill by forming toxins in foods that affect the gut or the neurological system. When an illness is caused by a ingesting a toxin and causes an intoxication it will generally make people sick faster than other foodborne pathogens which cause an infection.
Thousands of types of bacteria are naturally present in our environment. Microorganisms that cause disease are called pathogens. When certain pathogens enter the food supply, they can cause foodborne illness. Not all bacteria cause disease in humans. For example, some bacteria are used beneficially in making cheese and yogurt. Foods, including safely cooked and ready-to-eat foods, can become cross-contaminated with pathogens transferred from raw egg products and raw meat, poultry, and seafood products and their juices, other contaminated products, or from food handlers with poor personal hygiene.
1 Most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can be foodborne. 2  Other diseases are poisonings, caused by harmful toxins or chemicals that have contaminated the food, for example, poisonous mushrooms. Many different disease-causing microbes, or pathogens, can contaminate foods, so there are many different foodborne infections. In addition, poisonous chemicals, or other harmful substances can cause foodborne diseases if they are present in food.
Iotron adds that even though chickens can live unharmed with bacteria, the pathogens can be harmful when consumed by humans. Norovirus is the most common food pathogen found in some multi-ingredient items like granola bars and peanut butter. This is often the result of food handling by industry workers. Always check out Health Canada's list of recalls and warnings to be safe. This year alone, there have been over 477 food recalls in Canada, including one the biggest ones in Canadian history, a massive country-wide sweep of beef products from Alberta-based XL Foods.
Salmonella is a widespread and diverse pathogen – there are close to 2,500 different strain types of Salmonella ! Some strains are found in very specific places and types of food while others are more general in their distribution. While all mammals have some types of harmless and even beneficial strains of E. coli in their digestive tracts, there are about 100 strains of E. coli known as shiga-toxin producing E. coli, which are found in the animals that are used for our food supply.
It is unknown how long frozen samples had been frozen prior to shipping. Dry foods excluded cat and dog foods, but included hamster, gerbil, rabbit, amphibian, or bird food and pellets. Jerky-type. treats included chicken jerky products, pig ears, and bully stick types of products. Canned and wet pet foods were not collected as part of this project. Raw dog and cat foods, exotic animal feed, and jerky-type treats purchased through the Internet were tested in Phase 2 (October 2011 to July 2012).
Other Pathogens. There are several types of molds (fungi) that are foodborne pathogens, and algae found in plankton can cause paralytic shellfish poisoning. Several other types of toxins found in seafood can also cause illness. Some foodborne microbes make people ill by forming toxins in foods that affect the gut or the neurological system. When an illness is caused by a ingesting a toxin and causes an intoxication it will generally make people sick faster than other foodborne pathogens which cause an infection.