Americans of German-descent top the list of U.S. ethnic groups, followed by Irish, 35.8 million; Mexican, 31.8 million; English, 27.4 million; and Italian, 17.6 million, analysis of Census and American Community Survey data shows. Amid the surge of Hispanics, the largest ethnic group in the U.S. is still German-Americans, with a population of 49.8 million, a jump of 6 million between 2000 and 2010.
The Irish-American contribution to popular entertainment is reflected in the careers of figures such as James Cagney, Bing Crosby, Walt Disney, John Ford, Judy Garland, Gene Kelly, Grace Kelly, Tyrone Power, Chuck Conners, Ada Rehan, Jena Malone, and Spencer Tracy. The Irish-American contribution to politics spans the entire ideological spectrum. Two prominent American socialists, Mary Harris Mother Jones and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, were Irish Americans. In the 1960s, Irish-American writer Michael Harrington became an influential advocate of social welfare programs.
2. Second to German, more Americans claim Irish heritage than any other ethnicity. Despite this distinction, many Americans don’t realize that the United States celebrates Irish-American Heritage Month in March or the unique characteristics of the Irish-American demographic. The average Irish American is also about two years older than Americans generally. Although the first large wave of Irish immigrants arrived in the United States in the 19th century, the Irish continue to relocate to the U.S. Tens of thousands of Irish immigrants become naturalized U.S. citizens each year.
The Irish people (Irish: Muintir na hÉireann héireann Or hÉireannaigh) heireannaigh héireannaigh are a nation and ethnic group who originate from the Island of ireland and its. Associated islands ireland has been inhabited 9,000 about 9000 years according to (archaeological Studies See). prehistoric ireland People of Irish descent are found mainly in English-speaking countries; especially Great Britain, the United States, Canada and Australia. There are also significant numbers in Argentina and Mexico.
We celebrate, foster, and perpetuate the grand and glorious traditions of Irish and Irish-American history, advocacy, and camaraderie within the San Diego legal community. Membership is open to all San Diego lawyers who are Irish by citizenship, ethnicity, or affinity. We appreciate your membership and support, and encourage you to help build the Association by attending our events and encouraging your colleagues to become a part of the network.
Keywords. American fiction -- Irish-American authors -- History and criticism, Irish Americans in literature, Irish Americans -- Fiction, Irish Americans -- Ethnic identity, Irish Americans -- Cultural assimilation. Carty, Mary, Irish-American fiction and the ethnic identity of Irish-Americans (1988). Honors Theses. Paper 48
Famous Irish explorers include Brendan the Navigator, Robert McClure, Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean. By some accounts, the first European child born in North America had Irish descent on both sides; and an Irishman was the first European to set foot on American soil in Columbus' expedition of 1492. People of Irish descent are found mainly in English-speaking countries; especially Great Britain, the United States, Canada and Australia. There are also significant numbers in Argentina and Mexico.
People of Irish descent are the second largest self-reported ethnic group in the United States, after German Americans. Nine of the signatories of the American Declaration of Independence were of Irish origin. People of Irish descent are found mainly in English-speaking countries; especially Great Britain, the United States, Canada and Australia. There are also significant numbers in Argentina and Mexico.
Many colonial settlers coming from the province of Ulster came to be known in the United States as the Scots-Irish, although most descendants of the Scots-Irish today identify their ancestry as American or Irish. The Irish-American contribution to politics spans the entire ideological spectrum. Two prominent American socialists, Mary Harris Mother Jones and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, were Irish Americans. In the 1960s, Irish-American writer Michael Harrington became an influential advocate of social welfare programs.