Summary. Your kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of your fists. They are located near the middle of your back, just below the rib cage. Inside each kidney about a million tiny structures called nephrons filter blood. They remove waste products and extra water, which become urine.
The major calices then converge into a funnel-like cavity called the renal pelvis. The renal pelvis, which is attached to the indented side of the kidney anatomy (hilum), extends into the ureter. The ureter is a long narrow duct (tube) that conveys urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder.
All blood in the body flows through the kidneys every 10 minutes, so your blood is filtered for toxins 150 times a day. Structure: A kidney has 2 distinct parts: the cortex on the outside and the medulla on the inside. The medulla leads into an area called the pelvis (sometimes called the renal pelvis).
Each of the million tiny nephrons in the kidney is a mass of even tinier tubules, as shown in the figure. The main part of the nephron consists of the proximal (near) and distal (far) convoluted tubules, which become the nephron’s collecting duct. Structure of the kidneys and the nephrons inside the kidneys. At the beginning of the proximal convoluted tubule is a ball-like structure made up of the glomerulus, which is the site where the nephron’s tubule intermingles with a capillary, and the glomerular capsule (also called Bowman’s capsule).
The internal structure of the kidney is divided into two main areas... a light outer area called the renal cortex, and a darker inner area called the renal medulla. Within the medulla there are eight (8) or more cone-shaped sections known as renal pyramids.
Function: To take urine from the kidneys to the bladder. The presence of urine inside them stimulates a mechanical contraction which propels the fluid forwards. Bladder Structure: Sometimes called the urinary bladder this is a sac-like organ in the pelvic cavity.
The renal pelvis, therefore, is a structure that collects urine formed in the kidney and channels it into the ureter. The ureter of each kidney is located in the renal hilum, which is a groove in the kidney where the ureter, renal artery, vein, and nerves are located.
In each kidney, there are one million of these structures, called nephrons. The nephron is the basic unit of the kidney. It's a long, thin tube that is closed at one end, has two twisted regions interspaced with a long hairpin loop, ends in a long straight portion and is surrounded by capillaries.