As long as you have work experience in a professional environment that teaches you some of the skills necessary for your job, you should be able to advance later on in your career. An internship can provide valuable contacts in the industry you enter. If you're unsure of exactly what you want to do, you could try out a couple of different internships and see if the job is what you're looking for. Whether your internship is paid or unpaid depends on the company you intern for. An unpaid internship is worth it, as you will still gain valuable experience.
That’s where an internship comes in. An internship is an employment situation in which a student works (often for free) in order to gain hands-on experience. Internships offer valuable work experience, help you develop marketable skills and beef up your resume. Best of all, they can help you land a job after college. But internships can also help you throughout your college career. Here are a number of things internships help you do: Get Your Foot in the Door. For the most competitive careers, like journalism or theater, internships are essential. In a crowded job market, an internship provides: 1  Experience. 2  Studying a major is one thing; applying that knowledge to “real world” situations is entirely another. 3  In an internship, you learn to back up your smarts with action
No Guarantees. There is virtually no way for an employer to guarantee that your internship will be a good experience for you. Formal, well-planned internships are available, but part of the internship experience is learning what you like and don't like in an employer and a job. This may be all you get out of an internship that doesn't turn out to be what you expected.
10 Benefits of Starting an Internship Program. Find future employees. An internship program is a year-round recruiting tool. Fall internships, summer internships, semester internships, and quarterly internships, implementing an internship program means you have an ongoing pipeline of future fulltime employees. For many, the process of recruiting and hiring is a drain on company resources. Hopefully, that's about to change. Consider these internship statistics from the National Association of Colleges and Employers' (NACE) 2009 Experiential Education Survey: 1  67.7% of 2007-08 interns were offered fulltime positions. 2  83.6% of these offers were accepted.
Direct supervision of an intern is the primary and most effective method to guide an intern’s professional development. To abide by the rules of direct supervision, you must: 1  Supervise your intern on a daily basis. 2  Provide reasonable opportunities for your intern to gain experience in each IDP experience area. 3  Regularly assesses the quality of your intern’s work. 4  Periodically certify your intern's experience reports.
Advantages of the 8 Hour Internship. As discussed in Part I of “Working with Busy School-Year Interns,” the virtual internship is one program that helps employers take advantage of intern talent while classes are in session. However, it’s not your only option. Introducing the 8-Hour Internship. An innovative trend in internships, the 8-hour internship refers to a format where interns work only eight hours a week—either on or offsite. In fact, in terms of the 8-hour internship, the streamlined time commitment is not seen as an obstacle to overcome, but rather as an intrinsic advantage. Employers: 5 Advantages of
Benefits of an Internship. Internships are generally formal programs developed and offered by companies to potential future employees, whereby the company provides a limited on-the-job experience in return for the intern’s labor, either free or at minimal pay. 1 Intern-Directed. 2  The training is for the benefit of the intern, not the company, and the transferred skills are not unique to the sponsoring company. 3  Training-Focused. 4  Interns must not replace regular employees or perform unsupervised services similar to what an employee would do if available.
10 Benefits of Starting an Intern Program. You've mulled it over with management. It's consistently on the agenda at meetings. And you know that even—actually, especially—small-and medium-sized companies are already reaping huge rewards. In fact, you've been contemplating creating a program for months—even years. Hopefully, that's about to change. Consider these internship statistics from the National Association of Colleges and Employers' (NACE) 2009 Experiential Education Survey: 1  67.7% of 2007-08 interns were offered fulltime positions. 2  83.6% of these offers were accepted.