For physical and liquid damage to the Wii U GamePad: If your Wii U GamePad has been physically damaged or dropped into liquid, use the appropriate link below to set up a repair. Please note that these issues are not covered by warranty: 1  Click here for liquid damage. 2  Click here for physical damage. 1 In order to find your best repair option, we need to find out exactly what kind of problem your system is experiencing. 2  To do that, we ask that you first visit the troubleshooting section for Wii U and select the issue you are
The $85 component cost being printed (and then reversed due to warranty) on repair invoices point to a retail price starting at $99 and then going upwards from there. Obviously, All Wii U systems are under warranty for at least a year unless an owner breaks that warranty. The $175 cost for the Wii U Console was specific to the Deluxe model. Since the GamePad is not for sale at retail at this time, aside from being bundled with the console itself, one can only speculate what the price will be to customers.
If your gamepad breaks, buy a used Wii U for 200 bucks. Then you will have a new GamePad and a backup Wii U for when yours breaks years down the road. That whole statement is wrong. Nintendo stuff is made with Nintendium, nothing will ever break unless you break it. 
Date Posted: Apr 8, 2011 #2. When my Wii stopped reading discs in November, I called them up and sent it in for repairs. For the repair and a 1 year warranty, it cost me around $90. Also, I got my Wii back with all my data still there. I think you would be fine as long as it has nothing to do with memory. And if they can't fix the problem, they will replace your Wii with a new one (as far as I can remember)
Messages: 46. Date Posted: Mar 3, 2013 #14. REPAIR cost is about $85 (you mail your non-functional gamepad to them to repair, they mail it back fixed), but to actually REPLACE the gamepad (with a refurbished one at that), it costs $140 + tax + shipping (in the U.S.). 
Wii U console costs $175 to repair, GamePad costs $85. Dec 6th 2012 by John Kinsley. TAGS: Nintendo, wii u, wii u hardware, wii u repair. If you break your Wii U console or your GamePad controller, you can expect to pay a hefty repair fee. That’s according to Nintendo World Report, who sent in a broken Wii U and GamePad controller to find out how much it would cost to repair. And the repair bill is a large one: repairing the Wii U console costs $175, while a GamePad repair job costs $85. The $175 repair cost was for the Deluxe model, which means the repair price is 50% of the retail price of the hardware
Background and Identification ¶. The Wii U is a Nintendo video game console released on November 18, 2012 in North America as a successor to the Nintendo Wii. Users access the console's functions with both a television display and the gamepad controller, which features buttons and a touchscreen
Nintendo Wii U Repair. The Wii U is a video game console paired with a handheld device made by Nintendo that allows users to play games on the GamePad. Repairing the console and the controller is straightforward as the device is very modular. The Wii U is a Nintendo video game console released on November 18, 2012 in North America as a successor to the Nintendo Wii.
How to tear down and rebuild the Wii U gamepad-for screen replacement. There is a map in this video to help you unplug all the right ribbons and wires. Makes it easy!! You can purchase the replacement screen here. http://amzn.to/1SlMctU. 
Here's your invoice. The Wii U repair costs have been revealed to be $175 for the console itself, and $85 for the GamePad, according to Nintendo World Report staff members who have had their systems in for repair. The $175 cost for the Wii U Console was specific to the Deluxe model. Since the GamePad is not for sale at retail at this time, aside from being bundled with the console itself, one can only speculate what the price will be to customers.