In computing, a denial-of-service (DoS) attack is an attempt to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users, such as to temporarily or indefinitely interrupt or suspend services of a host connected to the Internet. In computer network security, backscatter is a side-effect of a spoofed denial-of-service attack. In this kind of attack, the attacker spoofs (or forges) the source address in IP packets sent to the victim.
A distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) is where the attack source is more than one–and often thousands–of unique IP addresses. In computer network security, backscatter is a side-effect of a spoofed denial-of-service attack. In this kind of attack, the attacker spoofs (or forges) the source address in IP packets sent to the victim.
DDoS is a type of DOS attack where multiple compromised systems, which are often infected with a Trojan, are used to target a single system causing a Denial of Service (DoS) attack. A Denial of Service (DoS) attack is different from a DDoS attack. The DoS attack typically uses one computer and one Internet connection to flood a targeted system or resource. The DDoS attack uses multiple computers and Internet connections to flood the targeted resource
Differences between DDoSing/DoSing and hacking. Today we will talk about differences between DDoSing a service and hacking a server. If you don't know what't DDoS and DoS, go to posts about LOIC and RefRef. I asume all of we know what the hell is hacking, now, we are all DoS experts :). 
Answer by Crazyx1891. Confidence votes 162. Distributed Denial Of Service (DDoS) is simply using a botnet (look it up.) or a lot of infected computers to send massive amounts of large packets, ddosing can be UDP, SSYN, HTTP, Apache,and more. It can be targeted to a single individual, or can be a large website/network. A DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) attack is a type of Denial of Service attack that makes the resources of a computer or network unavailable to its intended users. When a … computer is getting DDoSed, it can slow down or crash.
DDoSiNg. Its when some one attacks a specific IP Address in many cases sending a lot of large packets at once so that the IP Address can not handle all the incoming requests and crashes. Cheaters on halo 3 use this technique to Host Boot or Standby people. Dude this guy was DDoSiNg and he lagged me out of the game.
If you play games on Xbox Live, you may experience a denial-of-service (DoS) attack or a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack. These attacks may render your Xbox 360 console or your computer temporarily unable to connect to the Internet or to Xbox Live. To determine the identity of the individual who initiated a DoS or DDoS attack on your Xbox 360 console or your computer, contact your ISP. Note DoS and DDoS attacks are sometimes used as retaliation following online multiplayer gameplay.