1 Add the garlic and rosemary to the pan and place the roast on top. 2  Cook for 30 minutes and then baste the roast with any pan drippings. 3  Reduce the heat to 350 degrees F and cook until the meat is medium-rare (an internal temperature of 125-130 degrees F), about 1 hour and 15 minutes. 1 Reduce the heat to 350 degrees F and cook until the meat is medium-rare (an internal temperature of 125-130 degrees F), about 1 hour and 15 minutes. 2  Keep basting the roast every 30 minutes until it is done. 3  Keep in mind that the roast will continue to cook while resting.
Three Methods: Cooking the Roast in the Oven Cooking the Roast on the Stove-Top Cooking the Roast in a Slow Cooker. Eye of round roast is a cheap, lean cut of beef with a tendency to be tough if cooked improperly. However, when cooked the right way, this cut of meat transforms into a delicious, juicy roast. Place two teaspoons of oil (olive or salad) into the pot and add the roast. Heat it to a medium-high temperature. 4. Add the other ingredients to the pot. Once the meat has browned, add 2 1/2 cups (567ml) of water, two beef bouillon cubes and a bay leaf to the Dutch oven until it boils. When the pot reaches a boil, cover the Dutch oven with a lid and simmer the eye round roast for 50 minutes over a low flame
Transfer the roast to a rack in a shallow baking pan. Put the baking pan into a preheated oven. After 60 to 90 minutes of cooking, add the vegetables to the pan. Cook uncovered for a total of 2 1/2 to 3 hours, or until an instant-read meat thermometer reaches 135 degrees for medium rare.
1 Oven: If you're cooking the roast in a Dutch oven, preheat the oven to 300 °F (149 °C) and slow roast the meat for 3 to 4 hours, depending on the weight. 2  A 3 to 4 pound roast will typically take about 4 hours to cook — you'll know it's done when it reaches an internal temperature of 165 to 170 °F (74 to 77 °C). When you know how to cook a bottom round roast, however, you know the secret to overcoming those problems. The secret to a tender roast is to cook it at a low temperature for a longer period of time. 1  Prep time: 15-20 minutes. 2  Cook time: 3-7 hours.
How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice. A boneless top round, by contrast, will take 28-30 minutes for rare, 30-33 for medium rare, 34-38 for medium, and 40-45 for well done. If you roast at 325°F (160°C), subtract 2 minutes or so per pound. If the roast is refrigerated just before going into the oven, add 2 or 3 minutes
Put the top round roast on top of the bouillon cubes. Do not add braising liquid. Set the crock pot on low for six to eight hours and slow cook until the meat is fork tender. The roast cooks in its own natural juices leaving behind tender meat and a savory au jus that is especially good over mashed potatoes. Add two tablespoons of oil. Season the roast and brown the top round, on all sides, over moderately high heat. Add the braising liquid to the meat in the pan. You will need one fourth of a cup of liquid for a four pound roast.
1 Put the Roast in the oven and sear for 20 minutes. 2  Then add the water, the chopped onion and reduce the temperature to 275 degrees. 3  Cook for 20 minutes per lb. 4  I like mine rare so that is what you will get if you cook for this period of time. 1 Now Salt and Pepper the rest of the roast. 2  Put the Roast in the oven and sear for 20 minutes. 3  Then add the water, the chopped onion and reduce the temperature to 275 degrees. 4  Cook for 20 minutes per lb. 5
The secret to tender, moist top round roast is to cook it slowly in a small amount of liquid. Spray the bottom of a pan that has a tight lid with vegetable spray. Add two tablespoons of oil. Season the roast and brown the top round, on all sides, over moderately high heat. Add the braising liquid to the meat in the pan. You will need one fourth of a cup of liquid for a four pound roast.
For an evenly cooked roast, place the roast on the middle rack of the preheated oven. 6. Calculate the cooking time for your roast at 7 minutes per 1 lb. of meat (7 minutes per 453g). When you have cooked your roast to these specifications, turn the oven off but do not open the door or remove the roast. Place two teaspoons of oil (olive or salad) into the pot and add the roast. Heat it to a medium-high temperature. 4. Add the other ingredients to the pot. Once the meat has browned, add 2 1/2 cups (567ml) of water, two beef bouillon cubes and a bay leaf to the Dutch oven until it boils. When the pot reaches a boil, cover the Dutch oven with a lid and simmer the eye round roast for 50 minutes over a low flame