Articles. A subset of a Landsat 7 image showing a mildly erupting Sakurajima Volcano near Kagoshima, Japan, taken February 13th, 2000. Landsat spectral bands 7.5 and 2 were used for red, green, and blue, providing a good view of the geological features as well as emphasizing the extents of the nearby cities. Activity at Sakurajima continues. Eruptions occur each month and many are explosive. On May 23, 1995, an explosive eruption sent a plume of ash 8,200 feet (2,500 m) above the summit crater. Eruption of Sakurajima, May 26, 1994.
Of Sakurajima's main observation points, the Yunohira Observation Point is the closest to the ferry terminal. It is also the closet to Sakurajima's crater, about 2.5 kilometers away, and has the highest elevation at 350 meters. It is located along the volcano's western slope. Located in the middle of Kagoshima Bay, Sakurajima is the area's most prominent geographic feature, having an elevation of 1117 meters and a circumference of about 50 kilometers.
Activity at Sakurajima continues. Eruptions occur each month and many are explosive. On May 23, 1995, an explosive eruption sent a plume of ash 8,200 feet (2,500 m) above the summit crater. Eruption of Sakurajima, May 26, 1994. Photograph copyrighted and provided by Steve O'Meara of Volcano Watch International.
How to get to Sakurajima. Sakurajima-Kagoshima Ferry. From the Kagoshima ferry terminal in Kagoshima City, Sakurajima is a 15 minute ferry ride across Kagoshima Bay. The ferry port is 10 minutes walk from JR Kagoshima Station. There are Shinkansen bullet trains to Kagoshima Chuo Station from Fukuoka. Sakurajima is a nice place to spend a few hours if you are planning a trip to Kagoshima. This active volcano has a great history and some interesting places to explore. The town of Sakurajima is also known for its daikon radish, which is the largest in the world, and its mandarin, the smallest in the world.
Sakura-jima, Japan. A subset of a Landsat 7 image showing a mildly erupting Sakurajima Volcano near Kagoshima, Japan, taken February 13th, 2000. Landsat spectral bands 7.5 and 2 were used for red, green, and blue, providing a good view of the geological features as well as emphasizing the extents of the nearby cities. Eruptions occur each month and many are explosive. On May 23, 1995, an explosive eruption sent a plume of ash 8,200 feet (2,500 m) above the summit crater. Eruption of Sakurajima, May 26, 1994. Photograph copyrighted and provided by Steve O'Meara of Volcano Watch International.
Sakurajima volcano is a geologically young stratovolcano consisting of two N-S aligned and adjoining edifaces, Kita-dake (1117 m) and Minami-dake (1040 m). Kagoshima city and-Kita-dake (left), Minami-dake (right). Ash cloud rising above Sakurajima. 
Sakurajima, a stratovolcano on the the island of Kyushu, is one of the most active volcanoes on Earth. Since it's first recorded eruption in A.D. 708, Sakurajima has been in nearly constant eruption. Most eruptions are Stombolian in character and effect only the summit of the volcano. Eruptions occur each month and many are explosive. On May 23, 1995, an explosive eruption sent a plume of ash 8,200 feet (2,500 m) above the summit crater. Eruption of Sakurajima, May 26, 1994. Photograph copyrighted and provided by Steve O'Meara of Volcano Watch International.
stratovolcano. Sakura-jima volcano is located in southern Kyushu, Japan. It is one of the most active volcanoes in the world. Kagoshima city with a population of half a million is located 10 km west of Sakurajima Volcano. Sakurajima has been called the Vesuvius of the east. Sakurajima volcano contains two main cones, Minamidake and Kitadake, and. several parasitic domes.
Share |. Sakurajima Volcano, located on Kagoshima Bay in Kyushu, the southwestern island of Japan, has been erupting for at least a week. According to the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA), one of the eruptions on Tuesday showered Kagoshima City in ash. The volcano is located just 5 miles east of Kagoshima. 