The meaning of Bertie is  Shortened form of any name containing bert . Its origin is  English . Recently this name is mostly being used as a unisex name, but historically it's a boy's name. Last year it ranked 16,284th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby names. King Edward VII of the United Kingdom was called Bertie by his family, after his first given name, Albert. His full given name was Albert Edward. The Edwardian era was named after him. King George VI of the United Kingdom was also nicknamed Bertie as his first given name was Albert.
Origin of the name Albert: Derived from the Old High German Adalbrecht, which is composed of the elements adal (noble) and beraht (bright, famous). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
French Meaning: The name Bertie is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Bertie is: Intelligent; Glorious raven. French form of the German Bertram, meaning bright-raven. Philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell. Some scholars believe the second syllable of Bertrand derived from a word meaning shield. 
COSMIC DIVIDE-a short by bertie gilbert (2014) - Duration: 3 minutes, 2 seconds. KILLED THE CAT-a film by bertie gilbert & alia hassan (2014) - Duration: 19 minutes.
Bertie is a masculine given name. (See also Bertie (nickname) .) Notable people with the name include: 1  Bertie Brownlow (1920–2004), Tasmanian cricket player. 2  Bertie Childs (born 1894), British Olympic fencer. 3  Bertie Cooksley (1894–1980), New Zealand politician of the National Party. 
SPACE QUEST-a short by bertie gilbert (2015) - Duration: 4 minutes, 2 seconds. KILLED THE CAT-a film by bertie gilbert & alia hassan (2014) - Duration: 19 minutes.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Bertie birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. Click on a circle in the chart to view Bertie immigration records. You can find out when most of the Bertie families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.
Bertie is a nickname of names containing the Germanic element bert.. King Edward VII of the United Kingdom was called Bertie by his family, after his first given name, Albert. His full given name was Albert Edward. The Edwardian era was named after him. King George VI of the United Kingdom was also nicknamed Bertie as his first given name was Albert. His full given name is Albert Frederick Arthur George. He was the father of the current monarch of the United Kingdom, Queen Elizabeth II