It is known to everybody that Vitiligo is a general abnormality of some immune system within the body which results into white patches on to the skin. Vitiligo can attack any part of the body from head to toe. 
Vitiligo blog posts. Vitiligo is a common pigmentary disorder in which the pigment producing cells of the skin (melanocytes) are absent or non-functional. As a result, lighter patches of skin appear on various parts of the body due to the lack of melanin (pigment). 
1 Vitiligo can be focal and localized to one area, or it may affect several different areas on the body. 2  The exact cause of vitiligo is unknown, although most experts believe that it is an autoimmune condition in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks and destroys certain cells within the body. The cause is not known. Vitiligo may be an autoimmune disease. These diseases happen when your immune system mistakenly attacks some part of your own body. In vitiligo, the immune system may destroy the melanocytes in the skin. It is also possible that one or more genes may make a person more likely to get the disorder.
Vitiligo (vit-ill-EYE-go) is a pigmentation disorder in which melanocytes (the cells that make pigment) in the skin are destroyed. As a result, white patches appear on the skin in different parts of the body. A disorder in which the immune system destroys pigment-making cells called melanocytes. This results in white patches of skin o
In vitiligo, the immune system may destroy the melanocytes in the skin. It is also possible that one or more genes may make a person more likely to get the disorder. Some researchers think that the melanocytes destroy themselves. Others think that a single event such as sunburn or emotional distress can cause vitiligo. 
Vitiligo is generally considered to be an autoimmune disorder. Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system attacks the body's own tissues and organs. In people with vitiligo the immune system appears to attack the pigment cells (melanocytes) in the skin. Generalized vitiligo (also called nonsegmental vitiligo), which is the most common form, involves loss of pigment (depigmentation) in patches of skin all over the body.
Vitiligo. A disorder in which the immune system destroys pigment-making cells called melanocytes. This results in white patches of skin on different parts of the body. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases). Symptoms Tests Treatments
Vitiligo is a skin disorder that causes the skin to lose its color. Smooth lighter or white areas (called macules or patches) appear on a person’s skin. If vitiligo occurs in a hair-baring area, the hair in those areas may turn white as well. Vitiligo can be segmental, which is restricted to one side of the body or one area, such as the hands or face. Vitiligo can also be generalized, which is the most common type, when macules appear in various places on the body.
1 Vitiligo is a disease in which the pigment cells of the skin, melanocytes, are destroyed in certain areas. 2  Vitiligo results in depigmented, or white, patches of skin in any location on the body. 3  Vitiligo can be focal and localized to one area, or it may affect several different areas on the body. The cause is not known. Vitiligo may be an autoimmune disease. These diseases happen when your immune system mistakenly attacks some part of your own body. In vitiligo, the immune system may destroy the melanocytes in the skin. It is also possible that one or more genes may make a person more likely to get the disorder.
As a result, white patches appear on the skin in different parts of the body. Similar patches also appear on both the mucous membranes (tissues that line the inside of the mouth and nose) and the retina (inner layer of the eyeball). The hair that grows on areas affected by vitiligo sometimes turns white. 