Hydrolyzed collagen is a form of collagen. It is also called collagen hydrolysate, collagen peptide, gelatine, gelatine hydrolysate and hydrolyzed gelatine. Hydrolyzed collagen, like gelatin, is made from animal by-products, including skin, bones, and connective tissue. It is possible that consumption of hydrolyzed collagen risks contraction of Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.
Collagen. Collagen () is a group of naturally occurring proteins found in animals, especially in the flesh and connective tissues of vertebrates. collagen n: a fibrous scleroprotein in bone and cartilage and tendon and other connective tissue; yields gelatin on boiling. Collagen \Colla*gen\, n. [Gr. 
BioCell Collagen is the only hydrolyzed collagen that provides collagen and also substantial amounts of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) such as hyaluronic acid (HA) and chondroitin sulfate, all in remarkably bioavailable forms. 1 Only hydrolyzed collagen stimulates type II collagen biosynthesis. 2  Hyaluronidase-specific. 3  BioCell Collagen provides a comprehensive support for the cartilage with collagen type II, HA, and chondroitin sulfate, all of which are essential for the cartilage.
Hydrolyzed Collagen is beneficial in replacing the synovial fluids between the joints and secondly, to repair and build cartilage weakened by overuse through impact and stress. Our bodies are made up of 30% collagen of which 70% of these proteins are connective tissue made of collagen. 
Collagen is the most common protein in animals and Collagen types I, II, and III are the most common collagen in the humans. These collagens are known as fibrous collagen, because they form long strands. Collagen type I is abundant in the skin, tendon, ligaments, bone, teeth, and in between organs. Collagen type II is abundant in the cartilage and eyes.
Production [edit]. Hydrolyzed collagen is produced from collagen found in the bones, skin, and connective tissue of animals such as cattle, fish, horses, pigs, and rabbits. Hydrolyzed collagen, like gelatin, is made from animal by-products, including skin, bones, and connective tissue. It is possible that consumption of hydrolyzed collagen risks contraction of Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.
Collagen is essential for the structure and function of many connective tissues which glue other tissues and organs together. 1 Only hydrolyzed collagen stimulates type II collagen biosynthesis. 2  Hyaluronidase-specific. 3  BioCell Collagen provides a comprehensive support for the cartilage with collagen type II, HA, and chondroitin sulfate, all of which are essential for the cartilage.
Collagen Hydrolysate vs. Gelatin. Collagen hydrolysate (which is the same thing as hydrolyzed collagen) is not exactly the same thing as gelatin. In the hydrolyzed form, the collagen is processed more intensively, which actually breaks up the proteins into smaller pieces. They both have the same amino acids, but different chemical properties. Collagen is the most important protein in connective tissue, skin, and bones; you actually have more collagen in your body than any other type of protein. Degradation or lack of collagen can cause problems from skin wrinkles to osteoporosis.
Thus, the difference between collagen and super collagen is that super collagen has been hydrolyzed. Collagen consists of large molecules, while super collagen molecules are smaller. Super collagen is taken internally. Super Collagen. There are super collagen liquid, tablets and powder. Super collagen consists of hydrolyzed collagen, and it's absorbed into the blood stream. Hydrolysis means that the bonds between individual collagen strands are broken down by using heat and a chemical solution.
The amino acid content of hydrolyzed collagen is the same as collagen. Hydrolyzed collagen contains 20 amino acids, predominantly glycine, proline and hydroxyproline, which together represent around 50% of the total amino acid content. Hydrolyzed collagen, like gelatin, is made from animal by-products, including skin, bones, and connective tissue. It is possible that consumption of hydrolyzed collagen risks contraction of Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.