An underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) is when your thyroid gland doesn't produce enough of the hormone thyroxine (also called T4). A condition called Hashimoto's disease is the most common type of autoimmune reaction that causes an underactive thyroid. It's not clear what causes Hashimoto’s disease, but it runs in families. It's also common in people with another immune system disorder, such as type 1 diabetes and vitiligo.
An underactive thyroid can also occur as a side effect or complication of previous treatment to the thyroid gland, such as surgery or a treatment called radioactive iodine therapy. These treatments are sometimes used for an overactive thyroid (where the thyroid gland produces too much hormone) or thyroid cancer. A condition called Hashimoto's disease is the most common type of autoimmune reaction that causes an underactive thyroid. It's not clear what causes Hashimoto’s disease, but it runs in families. It's also common in people with another immune system disorder, such as type 1 diabetes and vitiligo.
Knowledge center. Hypothyroidism, also known as underactive thyroid, is a condition where the thyroid gland does not create enough of a thyroid hormone called thyroxine. Thyroid hormones regulate the way in which the body uses energy-metabolism-and without enough thyroxine many of the body's functions slow down. Hypothyroidism is a condition that occurs when the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormones to meet the needs of the body. The thyroid creates two thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) that regulate metabolism. They also affect the following: 1.
Iodine levels can also affect thyroid hormone production. The thyroid needs iodine to make thyroid hormone. An imbalance in iodine—too much or too little—can cause or make hypothyroidism worse. Iodine comes into the body, mostly via diet, such as dairy, chicken, beef, pork, fish, and iodized salt. Underactive Thyroid. Hypothyroidism is a disease where the person affected has an under-functioning thyroid. When you have hypothyroidism, certain body functions slow down and may lead to fatigue, dry skin, and memory problems. Hypothyroidism is diagnosed with a blood test.
Problems with the thyroid include overactive thyroid, or hyperthyroidism, and underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism. The thyroid gland in the neck makes hormones to help regulate the body's metabolism and a person's growth. 
Worldwide, a lack of dietary iodine is a common cause of an underactive thyroid, because the body needs iodine to make thyroxine. However, iodine deficiency is uncommon in the UK. Babies are sometimes born with an underactive thyroid because the thyroid gland doesn't develop properly in the womb. A condition called Hashimoto's disease is the most common type of autoimmune reaction that causes an underactive thyroid. It's not clear what causes Hashimoto’s disease, but it runs in families. It's also common in people with another immune system disorder, such as type 1 diabetes and vitiligo.
Hypothyroidism, also called underactive thyroid disease, is a common disorder. With hypothyroidism, your thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone. The thyroid gland is located in the front lower part of your neck. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder. With Hashimoto’s, your body produces antibodies that attack and destroy the thyroid gland. Thyroiditis may also be caused by a viral infection. Other causes of hypothyroidism include: Radiation therapy to the neck area.
Most cases of an underactive thyroid are caused by the immune system attacking the thyroid gland and damaging it, or by damage that occurs as a result of treatments for thyroid cancer or an overactive thyroid. A condition called Hashimoto's disease is the most common type of autoimmune reaction that causes an underactive thyroid. It's not clear what causes Hashimoto’s disease, but it runs in families. It's also common in people with another immune system disorder, such as type 1 diabetes and vitiligo.
The most common cause of hypothyroidism is Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid gland. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder. With Hashimoto’s, your body produces antibodies that attack and destroy the thyroid gland. Thyroiditis may also be caused by a viral infection. Other causes of hypothyroidism include: Radiation therapy to the neck area.