Located on Lake Champlain in northeastern New York, Fort Ticonderoga served as a key point of access to both Canada and the Hudson River Valley during the French and Indian War. Although it was a small-scale conflict, the Battle of Fort Ticonderoga was the first American victory of the Revolutionary War, and would give the Continental Army much-needed artillery to be used in future battles.
Account: Fort Ticonderoga was built by the French as Fort Carillon when they held Canada and the routes to the southern end of Lake Champlain. In 1758 during the French and Indian War Ticonderoga was the scene of a fearsome battle between the British and American colonists and the French under the Marquis de Montcalm. The following year, the fort was captured by the British under Amherst. Date: 6th July 1777. Place: Fort Ticonderoga on Lake Champlain, New York State in the United States of America. Combatants: British, Hessians and Brunswickers against the American Colonists. Generals: Major General John Burgoyne commanded the British and Major General Arthur St Clair commanded the American troops.
The Battle of Ticonderoga. Fort Ticonderoga is about 100 miles north of Albany, New York and is between Lake George and Lake Champlain. It was built in the year 1775 by the French to protect themselves against the British and to protect the fur trading routes. This was the first French fort to be built in North Americ
The Battle of Fort Ticonderoga is one of the most important clashes in the history of the American Revolution. It is also known as the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga. In order to understand the meaning of this particular confrontation, we have to dive into its history and background. The capture of Fort Ticonderoga was the first American victory and gave the Continental Army a strong and important morale boost through the development of the conflict. Also, the American victory supplied the army with important artillery.
When the American Revolution began in 1775 one of the most important battles between the Americans and the British was held at Fort Ticonderoga. On May 10th, Benedict Arnold from Massachusetts and Ethan Allen from Vermont joined their forces and attacked the British military base in Ticonderoga. The capture of Fort Ticonderoga was the first American victory and gave the Continental Army a strong and important morale boost through the development of the conflict. Also, the American victory supplied the army with important artillery.
The Capture of Fort Ticonderoga occurred during the American Revolutionary War on May 10, 1775, when a small force of Green Mountain Boys led by Ethan Allen and Colonel Benedict Arnold overcame a small British garrison at the fort and looted the personal belongings of the garrison. In 1775, Fort Ticonderoga's location did not appear to be as strategically important as it had been in the French and Indian War, when the French famously defended it against a much larger British force in the 1758 Battle of Carillon, and when the British captured it in 1759.
After seizing Ticonderoga, a small detachment captured the nearby Fort Crown Point on May 11. Seven days later, Arnold and 50 men boldly raided Fort Saint-Jean on the Richelieu River in southern Quebec, seizing military supplies, cannons, and the largest military vessel on Lake Champlain. In 1775, Fort Ticonderoga's location did not appear to be as strategically important as it had been in the French and Indian War, when the French famously defended it against a much larger British force in the 1758 Battle of Carillon, and when the British captured it in 1759.
Before Ticonderoga, the French had built another fort, named Crown Point or Fort St. Frederick, on Lake Champlain. Once the French occupied both forts, they had complete control over the lake and its channels of water, which provided access to supplies from the Atlantic. By July 8th, 1758, the fort was defended by a group of Frenchman under the command of Louis-Joseph le Marquis de Montcalm, who had served the British King during the Seven Years War. When British soldiers came to attack, the French easily defeated them.
The Revolutionary War and the Battle of Ticonderoga. by Pamela Kline. Originally known as Fort Carillion, Fort Ticonderoga was built between 1755 and 1759 on the shore of Lake Champlain, near the border of Vermont and New York bordering Canada. Constructed by the French, they believed that control over Lake Champlain would prove to be a beneficial factor for their forces over the years. By July 8th, 1758, the fort was defended by a group of Frenchman under the command of Louis-Joseph le Marquis de Montcalm, who had served the British King during the Seven Years War. When British soldiers came to attack, the French easily defeated them.