The company produces an 80 proof (40% alcohol) herbal liqueur known as Unicum from a secret blend of more than forty different herbs and spices. Unicum is known as one of the national drinks of Hungary. Unicum is made from a blend of more than 40 different herbs and spices. Some of the herbs and spices are distilled, some are macerated, then blended together and aged in oak casks at the factory in Budapest for over 6 months.
1 http://www.talkingcities.co.uk/budapest_pages/food_drink_wine.htm Unicum-Unicum is a national institution. 2  Produced for over 150 years to a secret recipe by the Zwack family, this bitter liqueur contains more than forty different herbs. Here's what some other web pages say about it: 1  http://www.zwackunicum.hu/ Although the recipe is a strictly guarded secret, that much is certain that UNICUM is made of a mix of over 40 different kinds of handpicked medicinal herbs and spices.
History [edit]. Unicum was created by Dr. Jozsef József, zwack The Royal physician to The Habsburg, court For Emperor JOSEPH ii in. . 1790 it was not until 1840 that his-20-year old, Son Jozsef józsef Zwack. Founded & J., zwack co The first hungarian. liqueur manufacturer Unicum is made from a blend of more than 40 different herbs and spices. Some of the herbs and spices are distilled, some are macerated, then blended together and aged in oak casks at the factory in Budapest for over 6 months.
The liqueur is today produced by Zwack according to a secret formula of more than forty herbs; the drink is aged in oak casks. During Communism in Hungary, the Zwack family lived in exile in New York and Chicago, and Unicum in Hungary was produced using a different formula. Before moving to the US Janos Zwack had entrusted a family friend in Milan with the production of Unicum based on the original recipe.
Unicum Plum is the newest liqueur in the House of Zwack portfolio and it is very interesting. It uses the Unicum recipe, but it spends six month in oak casks with a unique bed of dried plums, another Hungarian favorite. Today, the House of Zwack produces three bottlings that are available in the United States: Unicum, Zwack, and the newest, Unicum Plum. In 2013, Unicum and Unicum Plum were released in the United States. All three bottles look similar to one another, so be sure you are picking up the one you want.
Unicum is regarded as one of the national drinks of Hungary. The production facility offers tours which include a tasting session of the two different varieties (Unicum, and Unicum Plum). Zwack Frissitők is a pineapple-based softdrink. During Communism in Hungary, the Zwack family lived in exile in New York and Chicago, and Unicum in Hungary was produced using a different formula. Before moving to the US Janos Zwack had entrusted a family friend in Milan with the production of Unicum based on the original recipe.
Written by Andrew Knowlton. (Credit: Matt Duckor). The first time I ever had Zwack Unicum, it was as an oddity. My friend St. John Frizell, who used to work for Bon Appetit and now runs the Red Hook cafe-bar Fort Defiance, came back from a trip to Hungary in 2003 with a bottle of the stuff stashed in his suitcase. 
Origin of UNICUM. Latin, from neuter of unicus sole, single, unique — more at unique. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. Definition of UNICUM. : a thing unique in its kind; especially: a sole existing exemplar (as of a writing).
Unicum. Unicum is a Hungarian herbal bitters, drunk as a digestif and aperitif. Apéritif unicum is an herbal digestif. Liqueur the liqueur is today produced By zwack according to a secret formula of more than forty, herbs and the drink is aged in oak. casks 
Follow. I have not had UNICUM, the famous Hungarian bitter liquer in quite some time and in recently trying to purchase some I noticed that the familiar round bottle is still on the shelves, but now just named ZWACK (the name of the manufacturer). The Zwack (no Unicum on the label) product is marketed as Zwack Next in Hungary: it is indeed a Jager knockoff, and not very interesting. That's the one they'll continue to flog in the US, alas.