If a patient has a polyp that is too large to remove, the doctor may take a biopsy of the tissue for further testing. It may take approximately 1 week to receive the results of the biopsy. Most doctors also send a letter to the patient with the results and the recommended time interval before the next colonoscopy. After your colonoscopy, you'll be moved to a recovery room while the sedative begins to wear off. The time you spend in the recovery room is dictated according to safety standards and to ensure your vital signs are acceptable for discharge.
Depending on the size and number of polyps, you may need to follow a more rigorous screening schedule in the future. If your doctor finds one or two polyps less than 0.4 inch (1 centimeter) in diameter, a repeat colonoscopy in five to 10 years may be adequate, depending on your other risk factors for colon cancer. 
You might have some gas because of the air that was pumped into the bowel, which can cause cramping and discomfort. Because of the medicines given for the test, you will need someone to take you home. Because colonoscopy is usually done with drugs that make you sleepy, most people miss work the day of the test. After a sigmoidoscopy, you get up and walk out. If you have concerns, talk with the doctor about where and how the procedure will be done. Sigmoidoscopy typically is done in a private room, with no other patients nearby. Doctors and nurses are professional and very careful to respect the patient’s privacy.
A small video camera is attached to the colonoscope so that your doctor can take pictures or video of the large intestine (colon). The colonoscope can be used to look at the whole colon and the lower part of the small intestine. A test called sigmoidoscopy shows only the rectum and the lower part of the colon. Guide. Colonoscopy is a test that allows your doctor to look at the inner lining of your large intestine (rectum and colon). He or she uses a thin, flexible tube called a colonoscope to look at
The doctor will look for polyps, cancer, or other abnormalities throughout your colon. Your doctor will also remove any polyps that are found. A colonoscopy usually takes around 20-30 minutes to complete.After the procedure, you will need to recover for about 30-60 minutes to let the sedative wear off. You may feel some gas during your recovery caused by the air used to inflate your colon. Most facilities will require someone to help you get home afterwards
You will receive two enemas before the procedure because the rectum and lower intestine must be empty so that the intestinal walls can be seen. You will need to try to hold the enema solution for at least five minutes before releasing it. Make sure you arrange for a driver to bring you home after the colonoscopy. Because you receive sedating medication during the procedure, it is unsafe for you to drive or operate machinery for eight hours after the procedure. During a colonoscopy, the doctor uses a colonoscope, a long, flexible, tubular instrument about 1/2 inch in diameter that transmits an image of the lining of the colon so the doctor can examine it for any abnormalities. The colonoscope is inserted through the rectum and advanced to the other end of the large intestine.
What to expect after your colonoscopy. Since most people are sedated during a colonoscopy, the procedure itself is virtually painless. In fact, many people report waking up from a colonoscopy with no memory of the exam at all. After your colonoscopy, you'll be moved to a recovery room while the sedative begins to wear off. The time you spend in the recovery room is dictated according to safety standards and to ensure your vital signs are acceptable for discharge.
Colonoscopy can also be used as a screening test to check for cancer or precancerous growths in the colon or rectum (polyps). The colonoscope is a thin, flexible tube that ranges from 48 in. (125 cm) to 72 in. Guide. Colonoscopy is a test that allows your doctor to look at the inner lining of your large intestine (rectum and colon). He or she uses a thin, flexible tube called a colonoscope to look at the colon.
The purpose of a colonoscopy is to look inside your colon for polyps, cancers, ulcers, and other conditions. It is important to get a colonoscopy to test for colon cancer once you are 45-50 years of age or older since the disease usually has no symptoms. A colonoscopy usually takes around 20-30 minutes to complete.After the procedure, you will need to recover for about 30-60 minutes to let the sedative wear off. You may feel some gas during your recovery caused by the air used to inflate your colon.
• The purpose of a colonoscopy is to look inside your large intestine (colon) for polyps, cancers, ulcers, and other conditions. • Just before the procedure starts, you will receive some medicine to make you sleepy. • Most people do not remember having the procedure. • The doctor will pass a flexible tube from below. • We know it can be challenging to get ready for a colonoscopy. We also know that you may have many questions about the test. We created this booklet to help answer your questions. • After you read this booklet, go to page 19 and complete the checklist as you prepare for your