C. neither more or less of one than the other; it is an amazing combination of strength and flexibility. Reset Selection. Question 6 of 11 1.0 Points. A group of manufacturing quality control agents determines that a batch of spandex chafes at the elbow. Like any industry or any problem, the situation is VERY complex. (...and this would be the right answer.). Question 9 of 11 1.0 Points. Plasticizers frequently show up as a lightly greasy film on the inside of car windows because they are.
Polyester blends have been renamed so as to suggest their similarity or even superiority to natural fibers (for example, China silk, which is a term in the textiles industry for a 100% polyester fiber woven to resemble the sheet and durability of insect-derived silk). Polyester is a synthetic polymer made of purified terephthalic acid (PTA) or its dimethyl ester dimethyl terephthalate (DMT) and monoethylene glycol (MEG). With 18% market share of all plastic materials produced, it ranges third after polyethylene (33.5%) and polypropylene (19.5%).
The barrier to rotation about the C-O bonds is low. The bonding of oxygen in ethers, alcohols, and water is similar. In the language of valence bond theory, the hybridization at oxygen is sp 3. Oxygen is more electronegative than carbon, thus the hydrogens alpha to ethers are more acidic than in simple hydrocarbons. The C-O-C bond angle in the functional group is about 110°, and the C-O dipoles do not cancel out. Ethers are more polar than alkenes but not as polar as alcohols, esters, or amides of comparable structure.
(This is VERY irritating!) The Tg of the polymer of which the jacket is made should have been engineered to be than it is so that it remains more flexible (and quieter!) on very cold days. Like any industry or any problem, the situation is VERY complex. (...and this would be the right answer.). Question 9 of 11 1.0 Points. Plasticizers frequently show up as a lightly greasy film on the inside of car windows because they are.
R-ONa + R'-X → R-O-R' + Na X. This reaction is called the Williamson ether synthesis. It involves treatment of a parent alcohol with a strong base to form the alkoxide, followed by addition of an appropriate aliphatic compound bearing a suitable leaving group (R-X). The C-O-C bond angle in the functional group is about 110°, and the C-O dipoles do not cancel out. Ethers are more polar than alkenes but not as polar as alcohols, esters, or amides of comparable structure.
G. a and b. H. b, d, and f. I. a, d, and f. Question 11 of 11 1.0 Points. Google the term ALKYD. The term refers to glyptal. Glyptal is a great product in part due to its cost stability since it (blank) a petroleum derivative. Like any industry or any problem, the situation is VERY complex. (...and this would be the right answer.). Question 9 of 11 1.0 Points. Plasticizers frequently show up as a lightly greasy film on the inside of car windows because they are.
Ethers are slightly polar. The C-O-C bond angle in the functional group is about 110°, and the C-O dipoles do not cancel out. Ethers are more polar than alkenes but not as polar as alcohols, esters, or amides of comparable structure.
Buna-N is a commonly used elastomer. Buna-N is also known as Nitrile rubber, NBR or Perbunan.It is synthetic rubber copolymer of acrylonitrile(ACN) and butadiene. Elastomer is natural or synthetic material which does not break when stretched and when released it return to its original length. XNBR,an improved version of Buna-N,is used for hoses,rubber belts,sealing parts,special purpose article in oil well,reciprocating oil seal,rubber seal,gaskets,roll covers,shoe soles,varieties molded part for shoe heels and O-rings. XNBR is specially used for modification of the adhesives and epoxy resin.
Whereas if they are different the ethers are called mixed or unsymmetrical ethers A typical example is the solvent and anesthetic diethyl ether, commonly referred to simply as ether (CH 3 -CH 2 -O-CH 2 -CH 3). The C-O-C bond angle in the functional group is about 110°, and the C-O dipoles do not cancel out. Ethers are more polar than alkenes but not as polar as alcohols, esters, or amides of comparable structure.