Many nebulae or stars form from the gravitational collapse of gas in the interstellar medium or ISM. As the material collapses under its own weight, massive stars may form in the center, and their ultraviolet radiation ionizes the surrounding gas, making it visible at optical wavelengths. Examples of these types of nebulae are the Rosette Nebula and the Pelican Nebula. The size of these nebulae, known as HII regions, varies depending on the size of the original cloud of gas. New stars are formed in the nebulae.
A nebula is a large cloud that consists of dust and gas. Their  massive size can be as wide as a trillion miles. A huge release of  gas in the interstellar medium produces t … he nebula. The material  contained in the nebula collapses against itself and stars are  formed. When a protostar is formed from the gas in a nebula, it is the  result of gravitational attraction. This attraction causes matter  to clump together until enough mass has ac … cumulated that it  collapses in on itself and begins the process of fusion.
A nebula is a large cloud that consists of dust and gas. Their  massive size can be as wide as a trillion miles. A huge release of  gas in the interstellar medium produces t … he nebula. The material  contained in the nebula collapses against itself and stars are  formed. When a protostar is formed from the gas in a nebula, it is the  result of gravitational attraction. This attraction causes matter  to clump together until enough mass has ac … cumulated that it  collapses in on itself and begins the process of fusion.
Nebulae are often star-forming regions, such as in the Pillars of Creation in the Eagle Nebula. In these regions the formations of gas, dust, and other materials clump together to form larger masses, which attract further matter, and eventually will become massive enough to form stars. Emission nebulae, such as the Eagle Nebula, are vast, glowing clouds of ionised hydrogen and dust where stars are born. Others, such as planetary nebulae, are the bright shells of gas shed by dying stars. Despite their name, planetary nebulae have nothing to do with planets.
A fine example of an emission nebula is the Orion Nebula (M42). Reflection Nebula-A reflection nebula differs from an emission nebula in does not emit radiation of its own. It is a cloud of dust and gas that reflects the light energy from a nearby star or group of stars. Reflection nebulae are frequently the sites of star formation. They usually tend to be blue in color because of the way that the light is scattered. Blue light is scattered more efficiently.
A galaxy contains not only stars, but clouds of gas and dust. These clouds are called nebulae, and it is in a nebula where stars are born. In the nebula is hydrogen gas which is pulled together by gravity and starts to spin faster. Over millions of years, more hydrogen gas is pulled into the spinning cloud. 
Nebulae are often star-forming regions, such as in the  Pillars of Creation  in the Eagle Nebula. In these regions the formations of gas, dust, and other materials clump together to form larger masses, which attract further matter, and eventually will become massive enough to form stars. Examples of these types of nebulae are the Rosette Nebula and the Pelican Nebula. The size of these nebulae, known as HII regions, varies depending on the size of the original cloud of gas. New stars are formed in the nebulae.
A nebula (Latin for cloud; pl. nebulae, nebulae, nebulæ or) nebulas is an interstellar cloud of, dust, hydrogen helium and other ionized. Gases, originally nebula was a name for any diffuse astronomical, object including galaxies beyond The Milky. way Examples of these types of nebulae are the Rosette Nebula and the Pelican Nebula. The size of these nebulae, known as HII regions, varies depending on the size of the original cloud of gas. New stars are formed in the nebulae.
Emission nebulae are usually red, because hydrogen, the most common gas in the universe, most commonly emits red light. Reflection nebulae are clouds of dust that simply reflect the light of a nearby star or stars. Reflection nebulae are usually blue, because blue light scatters more easily. Emission and reflection nebulae are often seen together and are sometimes both referred to as diffuse nebulae.
A spiral galaxy like the Milky Way contains stars, stellar remnants, and a diffuse interstellar medium (ISM) of gas and dust. The interstellar medium consists of 10 −4 to 10 6 particles per cm 3 and is typically composed of roughly 70% hydrogen by mass, with most of the remaining gas consisting of helium. 