How long to keep records. You must normally keep records for at least 6 years from the end of the last company financial year they relate to. You may need to keep records longer if: 1  they show a transaction that covers more than one of the company’s accounting periods. 2  the company has bought something that it expects to last more than 6 years, like equipment or machinery. 3  you sent your Company Tax Return late.
A system for personal records is a necessity. No matter how modest your home facilities might be, you need a special place to keep your papers. That could be as elaborate as a room or home office or as simple as a corner of the kitchen, bedroom, or hall. 
Bank records. Length of time to keep, and why: From one year to permanently. 1  Go through your checks each year and keep those related to your taxes, business expenses, home improvements and mortgage payments. 2  Shred those that have no long-term importance. Length of time to keep, and why: From six years to permanently. 1  Keep all records documenting the purchase price and the cost of all permanent improvements -- such as remodeling, additions and installations.
Credit card receipts and statements. Length of time to keep, and why: From 45 days to seven years. 1  Keep your original receipts until you get your monthly statement; shred the receipts if the two match up. Length of time to keep, and why: From six years to permanently. 1  Keep all records documenting the purchase price and the cost of all permanent improvements -- such as remodeling, additions and installations.
Often swamped with paperwork, many entrepreneurs wonder how long you should keep business records. The answer depends a great deal upon whom you ask and what the record pertains to in your business. The IRS sets some basic record retention standards for tax records. 1 Typically, the IRS can come after your business for failing to report income for up to 6 years after your filing if the amount is greater than 25% of your business’s gross income. 2  If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years.
4. Seven Year Rule for Record Retention(general rule). The rules on how long to keep financial records varies depending on what you are saving. For up to date tax filings, 7 years is a safe rule of thumb. Some people might say that is too long, but it is easier to follow this rule than to have to keep track how long you should keep different info. We suggest you keep tax returns for the life of your company. Scan them and save them both on and off site.
Once you've purged, separate must-keep papers into three categories: those you need to keep for one calendar year, those you need to keep for a longer period and hard-to-replace documents like birth and marriage certificates. (See chart: What records to keep, how long to keep them .) Then decide on a home for each. Just make your system as simple as possible so you actually use it, says Brandi Kajino, a home office consultant in Vancouver, Wash. You can have a beautiful filing cabinet but if it's empty, that's not helping you.. Keep monthly statements for one year; you can dump them if your annual statement summarizes all activity. Keep the yearly summaries as long as you own the security, plus seven years. You need proof of your purchases to prove capital gains and losses on your tax return.
How long to keep financial records. You can't take everything with you, but you should safely store or electronically scan and save certain essential documents. The following are suggestions about how long you should keep personal finance and investment records on file: Length of time to keep, and why: From six years to permanently. 1  Keep all records documenting the purchase price and the cost of all permanent improvements -- such as remodeling, additions and installations.
This factsheet is part of the tax help series. It provides information about the records you need to keep if you are running a business. 
Share | Subscribe. Most people hold onto boxes full of financial records, tax returns and pay stubsthey no longer need. And they don't always keep the records they do need. Here are guidelines on what you need to keep, and for how long. 1  Estate-planning documents: will, power of attorney, advance health-caredirective (living will) and health-care proxy. 2  Store them in a safe-deposit box,but don't put them there and forget it. 