1 However, the weight at slaughter, consumer demand, cost of grain, and rarely, cases of mad cow disease, result in the fluctuation in the price of tenderloin – as well as all other cattle-industry products — by as much as $4-$5 on a week-to-week basis. Like other beef cuts, tenderloin is graded in accordance with quality, but even the lowest grades are highly desirable. Meats are typically graded according to a number of factors but largely according to the fine fat veins that permeate the meat, known as a marbling.
Its price come from the fact that this is the part of the beef that doesn’t get “overworked” in the animal’s lifetime. But to have this cut of beef, it will cost you. According to the USDA, a piece of tenderloin is now about $10.99 a pound. Just in time for summer barbecue season, the price of beef is skyrocketing, which is putting out the flames of meat lovers everywhere. A ground beef burger costs $3.26 a pound, up from $2.99 a year ago, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
1 In case you get beef tenderloin which has more cut and cleaned, you will pay more money. 2  The usual finished product of tenderloin is a filet mignon, which could cost you up to $20 or more per pound if it is a great grade. Like other beef cuts, tenderloin is graded in accordance with quality, but even the lowest grades are highly desirable. Meats are typically graded according to a number of factors but largely according to the fine fat veins that permeate the meat, known as a marbling.
[Photographs: J. Kenji Lopez-Alt]. Beef tenderloin is the most expensive cut of meat on the steer. At a good butcher or supermarket, a trimmed center-cut tenderloin can run you as much as $25 to $30 per pound! But there are ways to minimize that cost. The best way is to buy the tenderloin whole and untrimmed, bring it home, and trim it yourself. At my local Whole Foods, this shaves a full $10 per pound off of the trimmed cost, which translates to about $5 per pound savings after trimming away and discarding the scrap. At stores like Costco or other big box supermarkets, you can find untrimmed tenderloin for as little as $6 a pound.
Factors Affecting Price. For example, during the week of July 25, 2014 to July 31, 2014, tenderloin averaged $11.64 across 820 stores, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's weekly retail beef activity report. The week prior, tenderloin averaged $8.59 across 120 stores. However, the cost of grain, weight at slaughter, consumer demand and rarely, instances of mad cow disease, cause the price of tenderloin -- and all other cattle-industry products -- to fluctuate as much as $4 to $5 on a week-to-week basis.
Roast until a meat thermometer inserted in the thickest part of the tenderloin registers 130°F, 20 to 25 minutes. Transfer beef to a platter, tent with foil and set aside. Toss potatoes and carrots and continue to roast until tender and golden brown, about 10 minutes more. Transfer to a serving bowl. This elegant, simple preparation for beef tenderloin is a classic. To serve a larger crowd, simply double the oil-herb rub and roast an entire beef tenderloin (3 1/2 to 4 pounds), cut crosswise into two pieces. Watch our how-to video.
I have paid $4.99/lb and $5.99/lb for whole beef tenderloin in the past (at the right time of year) so I think I am not impressed with their price. I have made this same kind of list of beef found at Sam’s Club, so you can do your own comparison. 
1 The usual finished product of tenderloin is a filet mignon, which could cost you up to $20 or more per pound if it is a great grade. 2  Certain extremely fine steaks of beef tenderloin from specially-raised and tended beef cows in Japan’s Kobe region are known as wagyu beef and can $100 or more a pound. Like other beef cuts, tenderloin is graded in accordance with quality, but even the lowest grades are highly desirable. Meats are typically graded according to a number of factors but largely according to the fine fat veins that permeate the meat, known as a marbling.