Get the meaning of Leyah and celebrities who also shares the same name and some names related to Leyah, baby names list, list of baby names. Know what does Leyah means., tamil baby names. This website serves as the extended indian name list which will help in naming your child. 
Leyah is used predominantly in English. It is derived from Hebrew and Spanish origins. Leyah is a spelling variant (English) of the name Leah (English, Hebrew, and Yiddish). Leyah is also a variation of the name Leya (English). Leyah is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not listed within the top 1000. In 2012, out of the family of girl names directly related to Leyah, Leah was the most regularly used
Leah is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Leah. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 35 in baby name popularity for girls with 5563 occurrences. It ranked 9210 in popular baby names for boys with 8 occurrences. 
From the Hebrew name לֵאָה (Le'ah) which was probably derived from the Hebrew word לְאָה (le'ah) meaning weary. Alternatively it might derive from a Chaldean name meaning mistress or ruler in Akkadian. In the Old Testament, Leah is the first wife of Jacob and the mother of seven of his children. Although this name was used by Jews in the Middle Ages, it was not typical as an English Christian name until after the Protestant Reformation, being common among the Puritans.
In American the meaning of the name Leah is: Weary, tired. English Meaning: The name Leah is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Leah is: Meadow. Hebrew Meaning: The name Leah is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Leah is: Tired. Cow. First wife of Jacob in the Old Testament. Leah became Jacob's first wife by trickery, as Jacob had intended to marry her younger and more beautiful sister, Rachel, who soon became his second and favoured wife.
Leah /leah/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced LAY-ah, LEE-ah. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Leah is delicate; weary. Biblical: Jacob's first wife, the mother of Dinah and six of Jacob's twelve sons. The name was revived by the Puritans. Hawaiian mythology: Lea is the goddess of canoe makers. 
Leah meaning. Probably to complement the name Rachel (meaning Ewe) BDB Theological Dictionary and NOBSE Study Bible Name List turn to the cognate Arabic and read Wild Cow. But to a Hebrew audience, the name Leah may have resounded her position of grief and offense as she was Jacob's least loved wife. Leah became Jacob's first wife through a trick of her father Laban; it was really Rachel who Jacob was after. When Leah gives birth to her first son, she names him Reuben, after her idle hope that Jacob will subsequently fall in love with her.