the pulmonary artery carries oxygen poor blood and the pulmonary vein carries oxygen rich blood.   the arteries that carry blood from the placenta to the fetus, carry oxyge … n-poor blood amd the vein that goes from the fetus to the placenta carries oxygen-rich blood. The blood in the pulmonary artery is oxygen-poor. yes all the arteries carry oxygenated blood except pulmonary artery which carry de … oxigenated blood from the right ventricle of the heart towards the lungs.. I don't know what arties are, but arteries carry oxygen-rich blood while veins carry CO2 rich blood. Answered.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. With three exceptions, arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the body organs and the veins carry oxygen poor blood and waste products to the heart. The pulmonary vein carries oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the left atrium.   yes it does carries oxygenated blood.from hear to different part of our body..because pulmonary artery carries deoxygenate blood from body
Arteries. The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 3  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart
Actually, arteries carry oxygen-rich blood to the body, whereas veins carry oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. The only exception to this rule is the Pulmonary Artery, which carries oxygen-poor blood to the lungs. It is called an artery because it carries blood from the heart instead of towards it. The blood in the pulmonary artery is oxygen-poor. yes all the arteries carry oxygenated blood except pulmonary artery which carry de … oxigenated blood from the right ventricle of the heart towards the lungs.. I don't know what arties are, but arteries carry oxygen-rich blood while veins carry CO2 rich blood. Answered.
1 Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 2  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart and into organs. 3  Capillaries. 4  These are small, thin blood vessels that connect the arteries and the veins. 
All arteries except for the pulmonary artery carry oxygen rich blood. All veins except for the pulmonary vein carry oxygen poor blood. Generally, people think A for away fr … om the heart for arteries. All arteries carry blood away from the heart. The one artery that carries blood away from the heart before it gets oxygenated in the lungs is the artery that carries the oxygen poor blood form the right ventricle to the lungs: the pulmonary artery. The blood in the lungs carried back to the heart by the pulmonary vein is the only oxygen rich blood in veins. The pulmonary vein carries oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the left atrium.   yes it does carries oxygenated blood.from hear to different part of our body..because pulmonary artery carries deoxygenate blood from body to
1 The pulmonary veins carry oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the left side of the heart so it can be pumped to the body. 2  The superior and inferior vena cavae are large veins that carry oxygen-poor blood from the body back to the heart. The arteries are major blood vessels connected to your heart. 1  The pulmonary artery carries blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs to pick up a fresh supply of oxygen. 2  The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the left side of the heart
Arteries carry blood (with oxygen) from your heart out to your body, while veins carry blood (without oxygen) from your body to your heart. Arteries are strong, flexible blood vessels that are able to expand (get bigger) and contract (get smaller). They expand as your heart beats, and contract between heartbeats. 
The one-way system carries blood to all parts of your body. This process of blood flow within your body is called circulation. Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from your heart, and veins carry oxygen-poor blood back to your heart. In pulmonary circulation, though, the roles are switched. It is the pulmonary artery that brings oxygen-poor blood into your lungs and the pulmonary vein that brings oxygen-rich blood back to your heart. 