UpStar USA Group is a genuine TV manufacturer. The Headquarter of UpStar is based in Shenzhen, China. As the leader in TV industry, we have proudly provided our high quality LED/LCD TVs and monitors for consumers and hotels. We are committed to developing the best designs in terms of quality and value for our consumers. Since 2011, the popularity of our brand has developed so rapidly that we were even nominated as one of the most preferable television brands globally. UpStar USA Group is taking the initiative to grow as a company by encouraging innovation, setting challenging goals, and pursuing new ideas.
OS: Windows 7 Home Premium. I bought a brand new Upstar LCD TV. I took it out of the box, set it up, plugged it in, hooked it up to the blu-ray and cable box and hit POWER and got nothing. I figured the outlet worked since the cable box was on so I switched them around and the cable box still worked, but not the TV. 
Meet the Upstar UE2220: a tiny, 22-inch, full HD television that you’re likely to find behind a bar or in a hotel room. With an MSRP of $159 (and an online price of as little as $119), it’s about as cheap a TV as you’re going to find, but like everything in life, you get what you pay for. 
No, the current active 3D LCD and Plasma TV's need special transmitters that sync with the television's screen refresh to switch between the two eye's viewpoints. This infrare … d transmitted signal is picked up by LCD shutter glasses. 
This review is from: UpStar 32 Class 720p LED TV – P32EWY. Pros: 3 HDMI, legacy inputs, audio out, limited USB, 32 720p, feather light LED display. For the mid centi final result, this TV would've been a deal with the two year extended warranty, off brand no matter. Rating: 1/5 Dead picture right out of the box. This review is from: UpStar 32 Class 720p LED TV – P32EWY. Pros: Cheap, affordable, TV, nice size and the hardware seems sturdy enough. Base swivels, which is nice. Cons: Dead TV
This was a great price for this TV, although I had never heard of Upstar before I figured a TV is a TV...WRONG.. I had it for a week and had to return it. The only colors I got were black/white or blue. Also the screen kept flickering with colors of orange. I bought the 32 inch TV for the workout room in the basement. I was a little skeptical of the brand but the picture quality is excellent. This is great little tv for the price.
Rating: 2/5 Not to happy. This review is from: UpStar 32 Class 720p LED TV – P32EWY. Pros: LED, easy setup. Cons: one pixel out. Other Thoughts: Brand new out of the box there is one pixel, right at eye level that is out. Of course that is what I am drawn too now that I have seen it. Rating: 1/5 Dead picture right out of the box. This review is from: UpStar 32 Class 720p LED TV – P32EWY. Pros: Cheap, affordable, TV, nice size and the hardware seems sturdy enough. Base swivels, which is nice. Cons: Dead TV
The brand of UpStar TV was established in 2011. Our Headquarter of North America locates at Ontario, California. Since 2011, the popularity of our brand has developed so rapidly that we were even nominated as one of the most preferable television brands globally. UpStar USA Group is taking the initiative to grow as a company by encouraging innovation, setting challenging goals, and pursuing new ideas.
(June 2010). This is a list of television manufacturers, past and present. Since it is hard to determine who made what, and some manufacturers just sold off or liquidated their brand names at some point in time, an entry presented as a manufacturer may actually be a brand name.
Rating: 5/5 Better Than Expected! This review is from: UpStar 32 Class 720p LED TV – P32EWY. Pros: Was pleasantly surprised by the clear crisp picture at this price point. 3 HDMI's for all your add on needs, preset video choices and best of all a user defined mode to set it exactly the way YOU want it. Rating: 1/5 Dead picture right out of the box. This review is from: UpStar 32 Class 720p LED TV – P32EWY. Pros: Cheap, affordable, TV, nice size and the hardware seems sturdy enough. Base swivels, which is nice. Cons: Dead TV