After lying in state in King's Hall in Old Parliament House, Unknown Australian Soldier was interred in the Hall of Memory at the Memorial on 11 November 1993. He was buried with a bayonet and a sprig of wattle in a Tasmanian blackwood coffin, and soil from the Pozieres pozières battlefield was scattered in his. tomb 
On March 4, 1921, the United States Congress approved the burial of an unidentified American serviceman from World War I in the plaza of the new Memorial Amphitheater. On November 11, 1921, the unknown soldier brought back from France was interred below a three-level marble tomb. It is also known as the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, but it has never been officially named. It is located in Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia, United States of America. The World War I Unknown is a recipient of the Medal of Honor, the Victoria Cross, and several other foreign nations' highest service awards.
Inscribed on the back of the Tomb are the words: HERE RESTS IN HONORED GLORY AN AMERICAN SOLDIER KNOWN BUT TO GOD. The Tomb sarcophagus was placed above the grave of the Unknown Soldier of World War I. West of the World War I Unknown are the crypts of unknowns from World War II, Korea and Vietnam. Those three graves are marked with white marble slabs flush with the plaza. The Unknown of Vietnam. The Memorial Bridge leading from Washington, D.C., to Virginia is lined with a joint-service cordon as the remains of the Vietnam War Unknown are taken by motor escort to Arlington National Cemetery for interment in the Tomb of the Unknowns.
The front view of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldiers. The Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Va., is also known as the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and has never been officially named. The Unknown of Vietnam. The Memorial Bridge leading from Washington, D.C., to Virginia is lined with a joint-service cordon as the remains of the Vietnam War Unknown are taken by motor escort to Arlington National Cemetery for interment in the Tomb of the Unknowns.
Tomb of the Unknowns. These words are inscribed on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery. The Tomb of the Unknowns symbolizes those of America who gave their lives in World War I, World War II, and the Korean War in defense of the Nation’s integrity, honor, and tranquility. 
Tomb of the Unkown Soldier. The front view of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldiers. The Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Va., is also known as the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and has never been officially named. The Tomb of the Unknowns stands atop a hill overlooking Washington, D.C. The Unknown of Vietnam. The Memorial Bridge leading from Washington, D.C., to Virginia is lined with a joint-service cordon as the remains of the Vietnam War Unknown are taken by motor escort to Arlington National Cemetery for interment in the Tomb of the Unknowns.
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery stands atop a hill overlooking Washington, D.C. On March 4, 1921, Congress approved the burial of an unidentified American soldier from World War I in the plaza of the new Memorial Amphitheater. Here rests in honored glory an American soldier known but to God. The Tomb sarcophagus was placed above the grave of the Unknown Soldier of World War I. West of the World War I Unknown are the crypts of unknowns from World War II, Korea and Vietnam.
Unknowns, Tomb of the, a national memorial to the unrecovered dead of the United States armed forces of World Wars I and II and the Korean War. It was originally named t … he Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, but since 1958 it has been called the Tomb of the Unknowns or, unofficially, the Tomb of the Unknown Soldiers. The tomb is in Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia, across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C. The inscription on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier says ' Here  rests in honored glory an American soldier unknown but to God'.  This inscription is on the western panel of … the monument that dates  back to 1921.
Sentinels of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is guarded 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and in any weather by Tomb Guard sentinels. Sentinels, all volunteers, are considered to be the best of the elite 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard), headquartered at Fort Myer, Va. The Guards of Honor at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier are highly motivated and are proud to honor all American service members who are Known But to God.