Steps to Clean the Brush: 1  Fill a bucket half full with hot water (the hotter the better). 2  Add two cups of bleach to the water. 3  Place the toilet brush into the bleach water and allow it to soak for at least one hour. 4  Soak it longer if needed. 1 Fill a bucket half full with water. 2  Add 2-3 cups of washing soda crystals to the water. 3  Place the toilet brush into the mixture and allow it to soak for several hours. 4  Remove the brush to see if it is clean. 5  If needed, add more crystals (another 1/3 -1/2 cup).
1. Hold the toilet brush near the top inside of the toilet bowl. Flush the toilet, and allow the water to flow over the brush and rinse it. Twist the brush so the water hits it from all angles. Use bleach to disinfect and blanch the toilet brush. The more diligent you are about keeping your toilet bowl clean, the more stained and yellowed your toilet brush is likely to get. That discoloration isn't just cosmetic -- if you don't clean your brush regularly, it's sure to be covered in unsanitary bacteria
Step 1. Drain the Water From The Tank. Don't stick your hands into a full tank to clean it. You need to drain the tank before you begin. First, shut off the water by turning the valve located on the bottom of the toilet near the back wall, and flush the toilet until all the water in the tank drains out. Dirt, grime and bacteria can cause odors, corrode the gaskets, and even plug up the toilet, so it is important to keep the inside of your toilet and the water in it clean. If your toilet tank is grungy and dirty, get your heavy duty cleaning gloves on.
Generally the toilet brush is used with toilet cleaner or bleach. The toilet brush can be used to clean the upper area of the toilet, around the bowl. However, it cannot be used to clean very far into the toilet's U-bend and should not be used to clean the toilet seat. 
Chlorine bleach is an effective alternative to commercial toilet-bowl cleaners. Add 1/4 cup to the toilet bowl, let stand a few minutes, brush with a toilet brush, then flush. This will disinfect as well. To remove a hard-water ring from the inside the toilet, pour white vinegar into the bowl and let set for an hour. Scrub clean and flush. 
Pour about 1/2 cup of bleach over the bristles and at least a few inches up the handle from the bristle area; bleach is septic tank safe when used according to the manufacturer's directions. Swish the brush in the clean water to loosen any particles and germs. Flush the toilet again, and allow the swirling water to flow over the bristles, turning it to rinse all the way around, or on both sides of a loop-style brush. Secure the brush handle between the bowl and toilet seat, leaving it to drip into the bowl and air dry. Brad Jones/Demand Media.
Many of us use the toilet brush to scrub the toilet, then use the flushing water to rinse the brush and that’s it; after all, there was just toilet cleaning solution on it. However, the brush could use a good cleaning of its own. Select a method below to keep your toilet brush germ-free. 1 Cut off the top of a plastic milk jug or juice bottle. 2  If needed, set the brush in the bottle so you can carry it to the cleaning area without it dripping along the way.¹. 3  Read the label on the bottle of your toilet bowl cleaner. 4  If your cleaner contains chlorine bleach, skip to step four. 5  If not, use step three.
1 Fill a bucket half full with hot water (the hotter the better). 2  Add two cups of bleach to the water. 3  Place the toilet brush into the bleach water and allow it to soak for at least one hour. 4  Soak it longer if needed. 5  Once clean, remove from the water, rinse with clean water and allow it to dry completely. 1 Fill a bucket half full with water. 2  Add 2-3 cups of washing soda crystals to the water. 3  Place the toilet brush into the mixture and allow it to soak for several hours. 4  Remove the brush to see if it is clean. 5  If needed, add more crystals (another 1/3 -1/2 cup).
1 Place the toilet brush into the mixture and allow it to soak for several hours. 2  Remove the brush to see if it is clean. 3  If needed, add more crystals (another 1/3 -1/2 cup). 4  Soak it longer if needed. 5  Once the brush is clean, remove it from the water, rinse and allow it to dry completely. 1 Fill a bucket half full with water. 2  Add 2-3 cups of washing soda crystals to the water. 3  Place the toilet brush into the mixture and allow it to soak for several hours. 4  Remove the brush to see if it is clean. 5