1 View all Audi Huntsville jobs in Huntsville, AL-Huntsville jobs. 2  Salary Search: Automotive Service Technician salaries in Huntsville, AL. Flat Rate Technician-Audi Stratham. Audi and/or German automotive experience is preferred. Audi Stratham is looking for a Flat Rate Service Technician to join their team!... JobsInNH.com - 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Audi Stratham jobs in Stratham, NH-Stratham jobs. 2  Salary Search: Flat Rate Technician salaries in Stratham, NH
Penske Audi West Covina is looking for an experienced and highly motivated Audi Certified Service Technicians to become a part of the team.... 3 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all SoCal Penske jobs in West Covina, CA-West Covina jobs. Audi Technician-HAGI - 895-AUDI. Audi Pembroke Pines has an outstanding opportunity for a Technician to join the Holman family! The Technician is also responsible for:....
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Automotive category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Automotive jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. 
I doubt hardly any tech's make 6 figure salaries even at the dealer. The average for a good master tech is probably 60k and that's a position you earn not one you apply for. Starting salary for a regular tech at a dealer is probly 30-40k and it all depends on how your payed.
The median annual salary for mechanic and automotive technicians was $36,710 in 2013. The highest earners in the field made about $61,210, while the lowest-paid took home $20,920. Top earners in the profession work in the following industries: aerospace product and parts manufacturing and natural gas distribution. The average auto mechanic makes $39,450 per year, which is slightly higher than what many social services workers earn. For instance, landscapers and groundskeepers rake in $26,300 annually. With yearly earnings of $37,710, maintenance and repair workers also make less than auto techs.
Job expectations and descriptions are considered in conjunction with salary to gain a better understanding of the career path of an Audi mechanic. An entry level Audi mechanic position may range in income from $35,000 to $50,000 annually. Compensation often varies by geographic location and no amount of income is guaranteed. As an Audi mechanic gains experience and seniority at a given location of employment their salary will increase. By the sixth or seventh year of employment as an Audi mechanic an employee may expect to make close to $80,000 a year.
champion audi technician salary champion audi technician average salary is $ 38480 median salary is $ 38480 with a salary range from $ 38480 to $ 38480 champion audi technician salaries are collected from government agencies and companies each salary is associated with a real job position 
Audi Veterans to Technicians - 21 hours ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Audi Huntsville jobs in Huntsville, AL-Huntsville jobs. 2  Salary Search: Automotive Service Technician salaries in Huntsville, AL. Flat Rate Technician-Audi Stratham. Audi and/or German automotive experience is preferred. Audi Stratham is looking for a Flat Rate Service Technician to join their team!... JobsInNH.com - 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Audi Stratham jobs in Stratham, NH-Stratham jobs. 2  Salary Search: Flat Rate Technician salaries in Stratham, NH
Automotive Technician-Prestige Audi. PRESTIGE AUDI is part of fast growing Group 1 Automotive, a leader in automotive retail and we are looking to add qualified AUTOMOTIVE TECHNICIANS to our team.... 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Group Automotive jobs in Fort Lauderdale, FL-Fort Lauderdale jobs. Audi Technician-HAGI - 895-AUDI. Audi Pembroke Pines has an outstanding opportunity for a Technician to join the Holman family! The Technician is also responsible for:....