28. ------------------------------------------------------------. ADVERTISER DISCLOSURE (click for more info). If you don’t have the American Express Platinum Card and want to get one with the first year annual fee waived, apply here for a special offer for Ameriprise clients. Normally the first year annual fee is $450 and is not waived, so this can be a huge value. […] American Express Platinum cards come with annual fees of at least $450 (unless you use the link the Bengali Miles Guru found.) But they also come with a litany of valuable benefits worth more than […].
Last year I wrote in great detail about the Ameriprise version of the Amex Platinum card. It normally doesn’t come with a sign-up bonus, but American Express waives the $450 annual fee. That normally isn’t a great deal, because you can often get enough points for signing up to more than offset the fee. It also has a hefty annual fee of $450. Right now the normal public offer on the American Express Platinum card comes with a 40,000 point bonus after $3,000 in spending during the first three months. The annual fee is not waived. Thankfully there is a way to get the card with the ANNUAL FEE WAIVED!
Select a qualifying airline and then receive up to $200 a year in statement credits when incidental fees are charged by the airline to your Platinum Card ® account.* ‡ *American Express relies on accurate airline transaction data to identify incidental fee purchases. Non-refundable American Express service fee of $39 (per ticket) applies to each purchase and itinerary change for Platinum Card Members. See below for details.
1 $0 introductory annual fee for the first year, then $95. 2  APR APR on purchases will be a variable rate, currently 15.24% to 19.24%, based on your creditworthiness and other factors. 1 No Annual Fee and no annual fee for Additional Cards. 2  APR 0% intro APR on purchases for 12 months, then a variable rate, currently 14.99% to 24.99
Amex's junior black card offers much better benefits for less The American Express Platinum card is often referred to as the black card's younger sibling (or some variation of that), and for good reason. The card offers a lot of the same benefits at a fraction of the Centurion card's $2,500 annual fee. However, if you're in the market for a premium card, the American Express Platinum card actually offers many of the same benefits as the coveted Centurion card at a fraction of the price. And for those who actually use its benefits, the $450 annual fee could be well worth it.
Reason #1: Annual Fee. The annual fee is $450 and is NOT waived the first year. If you’re not someone who will make use of the lounge access, then paying $450 is probably not worth it for you. On a positive note, you will get reimbursed $200 each calendar year in airline credit. 1 Earn 40,000 points after you spend $3,000 on purchases on your new Card in your first 3 months. 2  With the Platinum Card, you can receive up to $200 a year in statement credits for airline incidental fees like checked bags fees, flight-change fees, and snacks.
The American Express Platinum charges a $450 annual fee ($175 for authorized users), but the fee is more justified. In fact, cardholders get up to $200 per year in statement credits to reimburse incidental charges while traveling, and get a $100 Global Entry credit every five years. However, if you're in the market for a premium card, the American Express Platinum card actually offers many of the same benefits as the coveted Centurion card at a fraction of the price. And for those who actually use its benefits, the $450 annual fee could be well worth it.
1 No Annual Fee. 2  APR 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 15 months. 3  After that, your APR will be a variable rate, currently 12.99% to 21.99%, based on your creditworthiness and other factors. 1 No Annual Fee and no annual fee for Additional Cards. 2  APR 0% intro APR on purchases for 12 months, then a variable rate, currently 14.99% to 24
$200 Airline Fee Credit Feel free to check your bags or enjoy an in-flight meal on us. Select a qualifying airline and then receive up to $200 a year in statement credits when incidental fees are charged by the airline to your Platinum Card® account. ENJOY LOUNGES Airport Lounge Access Program. Non-refundable American Express service fee of $39 (per ticket) applies to each purchase and itinerary change for Platinum Card Members. See below for details.