Never leave the fish at room temperature for more than two hours. Store it in a shallow covered container to allow the fish to cool to the proper temperature more quickly. Cooked fish can be stored for up to 2 to 3 days in a refrigerator at 40°F or less. If leftovers are not going to be used within this time, they can be frozen and stored for up to one month. Freezing Cooked Fish Leftovers: If you have cooked fish leftovers that are not going to be eaten within 2 or 3 days, you can freeze them for extended storage. Place the cooked fish in shallow covered container to allow the fish to freeze more quickly. Cooked fish can be stored in the freezer
If you’re saving food in plastic bags, be sure to follow the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration guidelines for safe storage. Frozen foods can be stored indefinitely, but the flavor can change when food is stored past the time limits below. Refrigerator: 3 to 5 days. Freezer: 6 to 12 months. 
Fish Tales confirms: store shellfish in a bowl, covered with a paper towel, in the fridge. The bottom line is that seafood is best eaten when it's as fresh as possible -- but with proper storage, it will last up to three days. Now that you know how long your fish will keep, check out the easy seafood recipes below. Just make sure to use the smell test before you get started.
Raw fish can be stored safely in a refrigerator at 40°F or lower for 2 to 3 days. Oily fish will store longer than lean fish and whole fish will store better than steaks and fillets. There are several factors listed below that will have an affect on how well the fish will store. Freezing Cooked Fish Leftovers: If you have cooked fish leftovers that are not going to be eaten within 2 or 3 days, you can freeze them for extended storage. Place the cooked fish in shallow covered container to allow the fish to freeze more quickly. Cooked fish can be stored in the freezer for up to one month.
It depends. If you caught the fish yourself, you will get as much as a week to 10 days. A market-bought fish won't last that long, nor will a piece of fish such as a fillet or a steak. Those will remain at peak condition only a few days. Replace the ice as it melts, and pour off the melt water
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Rule of thumb is store it for only 2 days in the fridge after purchasing, and keep in the very coldest part of your fridge. Since it was perfectly fresh when you caught it (rather than from a fish market), maybe you can get another day or two. Next time, freeze it if you don't want to use it immediately
1 Once home, the fish is quickly cleaned and stored in the fridge for eating the folowing evening (or frozen but allowing 1 day to defrost in the fridge). 2  1 Hour at 20&deg C is equivalent to 9 hours at 0&deg C (9 x 1 hour). 3  24 hours at 4&deg C is equivalent to 48 hours at 0&deg C (2 x 24 hours). 1 Once home, the fish is quickly cleaned and stored in the fridge for eating the following evening (or frozen but allowing 1 day to defrost in the fridge). 2  6 hours at 15&deg C is equivalent to 36 hours at 0&deg C (6 x 6 hours).
A newly caught fish is far fresher than any fish you'll ever buy in a shop. In fact, a freshly caught trout or salmon will have a shelf life of about 9 days at 0&deg C. But what does this mean in real life? Can we really keep it in the fridge and eat it a week later? The answer, sadly, is no. Let's take a look at the details. 1 Once home, the fish is quickly cleaned and stored in the fridge for eating the following evening (or frozen but allowing 1 day to defrost in the fridge). 2  6 hours at 15&deg C is equivalent to 36 hours at 0&deg C (6 x 6 hours).