Noun. 1. ampoule-a small bottle that contains a drug (especially a sealed sterile container for injection by needle). ampul, ampule, phial, vial. bottle-a glass or plastic vessel used for storing drinks or other liquids; typically cylindrical without handles and with a narrow neck that can be plugged or capped.
Noun. 1. ampoule-a small bottle that contains a drug (especially a sealed sterile container for injection by needle). ampul, ampule, phial, vial. bottle-a glass or plastic vessel used for storing drinks or other liquids; typically cylindrical without handles and with a narrow neck that can be plugged or capped. 
Photo: Lee Jiham. A quick word on ampoules, because they're in the same family as essences and serums. An ampoule is a supercharged serum with higher concentrations of active ingredients that you're meant to use for a finite amount of time as a booster or when you're having a skin crisis of some sort. 
Definition of AMPOULE. 1. : a hermetically sealed small bulbous glass vessel that is used to hold a solution for hypodermic injection. 2. : a vial resembling an ampoule.
The filling and sealing of ampoules may be done by automated machinery on an industrial scale, or by hand in small-scale industries and laboratory settings. Blank ampoules can be purchased from scientific glass supply houses and sealed with a small gas torch. Glass ampoules are more expensive than bottles and other simple containers, but there are many situations where their superior imperviousness to gases and liquids and all-glass interior surface are worth the extra cost.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Glass ampoules have been widely used in packaging injection drugs. Glass has important characteristics that allow it to be widely used in fabrication of recipients for drugs and other sterile substances. CONTENTS: Glass microparticles generated in the snap-opening of ampoules, as well as metals that contaminate their contents can be aspirated and injected through several routes. Exogenous contaminations by glass and metals can reach several sites in the organism.
Examples of chemicals sold in ampoules are injectable pharmaceuticals, air-sensitive reagents like tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0) , hygroscopic materials like deuterated solvents and trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, and analytical standards. Glass ampoules are more expensive than bottles and other simple containers, but there are many situations where their superior imperviousness to gases and liquids and all-glass interior surface are worth the extra cost.
Ampoules are commonly made of glass, although plastic ampoules do exist. Modern ampoules are most commonly used to contain pharmaceuticals and chemicals that must be protected from air and contaminants. They are hermetically sealed by melting the thin top with an open flame, and usually opened by snapping off the neck. Glass ampoules are more expensive than bottles and other simple containers, but there are many situations where their superior imperviousness to gases and liquids and all-glass interior surface are worth the extra cost.
Ampoules. Ampoules are typically small, glass containers that are filled with a concentration of highly active ingredients. Ampoules usually contain botanical extracts, vitamins, and enzymes in various combinations and do not have any preservatives or chemicals due to the airtight packaging. There are several types of ampoules: Gel-Botanical extractives in a light gel formula, which allows for easier absorption into the skin. Best suited for the facial tissues and reach maximum effectiveness when applied with steam and can also be used in conjunction with a mask.