It helps in maintaining the heart, brain, kidneys, muscle tissues, and other organs of the body in a healthy condition. Hyperkalemia is characterized by the presence of excessive calcium in the blood, while a deficiency of potassium causes hypokalemia. Health Benefits of Potassium. Causes of Hyperkalemia. The normal level of potassium in the blood is 3.5-5.0 mEq/L (mEq/L stand for milliequivalents per liter of blood) . Hyperkalemia is a condition in which the levels of potassium in the blood exceeds this level. It is characterized by irregular heartbeats, and in extreme cases, can be fatal.
Potassium: Why It's Essential for Your Body. Potassium is a mineral necessary for the proper function of many of your body systems; it's also often referred to as one of the key electrolytes in your body. Potassium, along with sodium, the other electrolyte, plays a vital role in regulating the fluid levels in your body. 
Potassium is a very important mineral for the proper function of all cells, tissues, and organs in the human body. It is also an electrolyte, a substance that conducts electricity in the body, along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium. Potassium is crucial to heart function and plays a key role in skeletal and smooth muscle contraction, making it important for normal digestive and muscular function. The most important use of potassium is to treat the symptoms of hypokalemia (low potassium), which include weakness, lack of energy, muscle cramps, stomach disturbances, an irregular heartbeat, and an abnormal EKG (electrocardiogram, a test that measures heart function).
Blood Pressure. A balance of sodium and potassium is important for your body's electrolyte functions. As your body works hard to maintain this balance, you can reduce the impact of a high sodium intake by consuming more potassium. Potassium is particularly important for the ability of your skeletal and smooth muscles to contract. Because of this, an adequate intake of potassium is important for regular digestive and muscular functioning.
1 It is an electrolyte, which means that it helps your cells maintain fluid balance. 2  Potassium also acts as a blood buffer by maintaining pH and acid levels. 3  This also prevents the loss of calcium and phosphorus, two important minerals for bone health. Many foods contain potassium, especially fresh fruits, and is essential for human life. It's a mineral with the chemical element symbol of K. Potassium wears many hats when it comes to functions within the body. Consider the following. 1  Potassium can help lower your blood pressure.
Potassium is a mineral that plays many critical roles in the body. Food sources of potassium include fruits (especially dried fruits), cereals, beans, milk, and vegetables. Potassium is used for treating and preventing low potassium levels. It is also used to treat high blood pressure and prevent stroke. 
Potassium is a very significant body mineral, important to both cellular and electrical function. It is one of the main blood minerals called electrolytes (the others are sodium and chloride), which means it carries a tiny electrical charge (potential). 
As an electrolyte, potassium is vital to the healthy functioning of all of your body's cells, tissues and organs. It also helps to control the amount of water in your body and maintain a healthy blood pH level. Potassium is particularly important for the ability of your skeletal and smooth muscles to contract. Because of this, an adequate intake of potassium is important for regular digestive and muscular functioning.
Low Potassium (Hypokalemia) Overview. Potassium is a mineral (electrolyte) in the body. Almost 98% of potassium is found inside the cells. Small changes in the level of potassium that is present outside the cells can have severe effects on the heart, nerves, and muscles. Potassium is important to maintain several bodily functions: 