One might think that Gunnar is related closely to the name Gunner, when in fact each name has distinctly different etymologies. While Gunner (with an “e”) is the transferred use of an English surname, Gunnar (with an “a”) comes from an Old Norse personal name “Gunnarr” (related to Guenther). günther
Origin of the name Gunnar: Derived from the Old Norse Gunnarr, which is from the word gunnr (war, strife, battle). The name Gunnar was borne by several interesting characters in Norse mythology, one of whom was the son of Giuki and Grimhild. He was the brother of Gudrun and the husband of Brynhild. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
Name: Compare To: See the name popularity of Gunnar since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. View Gunnar popularity trends, and how the popularity of Gunnar has changed over time. Gunnar-Popularity of Gunnar, How Popular Is the name Gunnar? View Gunnar popularity trends, and how the popularity of Gunnar has changed over time.
Popularity of the Name Gunnar. Gunnar first came onto the American male naming scene in 1991. Despite the name’s evidence rooted in ancient Nordic mythology, Gunnar is a relatively new name for Americans. In fact, we can’t help but wonder if some parents are confusing it with Gunner (we almost did). While Gunner (with an “e”) is the transferred use of an English surname, Gunnar (with an “a”) comes from an Old Norse personal name “Gunnarr” (related to Guenther). günther
While Gunner (with an “e”) is the transferred use of an English surname, Gunnar (with an “a”) comes from an Old Norse personal name “Gunnarr” (related to Guenther). Günther gunnar is derived from The Old norse “elements” gunnr “meaning” war “and” arr “meaning” warrior so the name essentially “means”. warrior While Gunner (with an “e”) is the transferred use of an English surname, Gunnar (with an “a”) comes from an Old Norse personal name “Gunnarr” (related to Guenther). günther
Gunnar. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gunnar is a male first name of Nordic origin (Gunnarr in Old Norse), also known as 'Roland.' The name Gunnar means fighter, soldier, and attacker, but mostly is referred to by the Viking saying which means Brave and Bold warrior (gunnr war and arr warrior). 
The name Gunnar is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Gunnar is: Battle strong. American Meaning: The name Gunnar is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Gunnar is: Battle strong. Teutonic Meaning: The name Gunnar is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Gunnar is: Bold warrior. Norse Meaning: The name Gunnar is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Gunnar is: Iighter. Scandinavian Meaning: The name Gunnar is a Scandinavian baby name.
Gunnar is an uncommon first name for men. Gunnar is also a rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Gunnar for boys. Gunnar was first listed in 1900-1909 and reached its apex rank of #381 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics).