Next. Tobramycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is used for treatment of infections of susceptible strains of aerobic gram-negative bacteria that are resistant to less-toxic antibiotics. For tobramycin administered in multiple daily doses (usually every 8-12 hours), peak and trough levels guide tobramycin dosing. Peak levels are used to adjust the tobramycin dose per administration and should be within the reference range to be considered therapeutic.
Tobramycin is an ophthalmic solution prescribed for the treatment of eye infections that are caused by bacteria. It is an aminoglycoside-type antibiotic. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This medicine may also be used to treat other conditions as determined by your doctor. Tobramycin 0.3% Ophth. If they do occur, the side effects of Tobramycin are most likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and may require the individual to inform the doctor or visit the nearest hospital immediately. It is pertinent to note that side effects of Tobramycin cannot be anticipated.
Tobradex ® (tobramycin and dexamethasone) is a prescription eye medication. It comes in the form of an eye ointment and an eye suspension (drops). Tobradex contains a steroid (for reducing inflammation) and an antibiotic (for treating or preventing infections).
Ophthalmic tobramycin is used in the eye to treat bacterial infections of the eye. Tobramycin works by killing bacteria. Ophthalmic tobramycin may be used alone or with other medicines for eye infections. Either the drops or the ointment form of this medicine may be used alone during the day. For patients using tobramycin ophthalmic ointment (eye ointment): 1  To use: 2  First, wash your hands. 3  To keep the medicine as germ-free as possible, do not touch the applicator tip to any surface (including the eye).
In addition to eye drops, tobramycin is also available as 0.3% ointment which is also used to treat external bacterial infections of the eye. PRESCRIBED FOR: Tobramycin ophthalmic solution is used to treat external eye infections caused by susceptible bacteria. SIDE EFFECTS: Side effects associated with the use of tobramycin eye drops are mostly limited to the area(s) of application. Reported side effects include: 1  tearing, 2  swelling of the eye, and. 3  itching, stinging, or burning of the eye
For patients using tobramycin ophthalmic ointment (eye ointment): 1  To use: 2  First, wash your hands. 3  Tilt the head back and with the index finger of one hand, press gently on the skin just beneath the lower eyelid and pull the lower eyelid away from the eye to make a space. 4  Squeeze a thin strip of ointment into this space. For patients using tobramycin ophthalmic ointment (eye ointment): 1  To use: 2  First, wash your hands. 3  To keep the medicine as germ-free as possible, do not touch the applicator tip to any surface (including the eye).
Tobramycin can interact with other eye drops or eye ointments. Do let your doctor know if you smoke, consume alcohol or caffeinated drinks, or use illegal drugs as these may interfere with the action of your medication. If they do occur, the side effects of Tobramycin are most likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and may require the individual to inform the doctor or visit the nearest hospital immediately. It is pertinent to note that side effects of Tobramycin cannot be anticipated.
If any side effects of Tobramycin develop or change in intensity, the doctor should be informed as soon as possible. Tobramycin can cause side effects such as eye redness, burning, stinging, irritation, blurred vision, sensitivity to light, eyelid itching, and eye discomfort. If they do occur, the side effects of Tobramycin are most likely to be minor and temporary. However, some may be serious and may require the individual to inform the doctor or visit the nearest hospital immediately. It is pertinent to note that side effects of Tobramycin cannot be anticipated.
If you are using the inhalation solution: 1  Tobramycin inhalation solution is packaged in small plastic containers called ampules. 2  Tobramycin is especially formulated to be used with a PARI LC PLUS™ nebulizer. 3  Use the mouthpiece of the nebulizer to breathe in Bethkis®. 4  You will need to use the nebulizer for about 10 to 15 minutes, or until the 5  ... Cl Ask your doctor if you have any questions. If you are using the inhalation solution: 1  Tobramycin inhalation solution is packaged in small plastic containers called ampules. 2  Each ampule contains one full dose of tobramycin. 3  Do not use an ampule that has already been opened.