Enveloped viruses have a lipid-based membrane surrounding the protein capsid. This envelope is partly composed of the cell membrane within which the virus replicated, and it contains proteins and carbohydrates. I would answer A.) Identical to the host plasma membrane Note that the envelop of a virus is also: D.) Obtained by viral budding or exocytosis For future reference, the endomembrane system is a system composed of the different membranes that are suspended in the cytoplasm WITHIN a eukaryotic cell.
Report Abuse. I would answer A.) Identical to the host plasma membrane Note that the envelop of a virus is also: D.) Obtained by viral budding or exocytosis For future reference, the endomembrane system is a system composed of the different membranes that are suspended in the cytoplasm WITHIN a eukaryotic cell.
· just now. Report Abuse. Enveloped viruses have a lipid-based membrane surrounding the protein capsid. This envelope is partly composed of the cell membrane within which the virus replicated, and it contains proteins and carbohydrates. Some of the proteins are from the host cell and some are from the virus.. I would answer A.) Identical to the host plasma membrane Note that the envelop of a virus is also: D.) Obtained by viral budding or exocytosis For future reference, the endomembrane system is a system composed of the different membranes that are suspended in the cytoplasm WITHIN a eukaryotic cell.
The envelopes typically are derived from portions of the host cell membranes (phospholipids and proteins), but include some viral glycoproteins. Functionally, viral envelopes are essential for entry into host cells. The lipid bilayer envelope of these viruses is relatively sensitive to desiccation, heat, and detergents, therefore these viruses are easier to sterilize than non-enveloped viruses, have limited survival outside host environments, and typically must transfer directly from host to host.
Most viruses that infect animals have a membranous envelope. Viral glycoproteins on the envelope bind to specific receptor molecules on the surface of a host cell. Some viral envelopes are formed from the host cell's plasma membrane as the viral capsids exit. This is the limited number of host cells that a virus can infect. This host specificity results from the evolution of recognition systems by the virus. Viruses usually identify host cells by a lock and key fit between viral surface proteins and specific receptor molecules on the outside of the cell.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The envelope comes from the cells that the virus infects. When the virus is assembled inside the infected cells, it is released either by budding from the cell membrane or by cell lysis. The membrane can come from the plasma membrane, the golgi, or one virus uses the nuclear membrane (I forgot which one). a viral infection is like the flu and mononucleosis combined. you have the same symptoms that you would have with the flu. but it isn't the flu. to find out more ask you docto … r at your next appointment or call and ask the person that answers the phone. hope this helps or helped you a little.