Kyrie /ky-rie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used more commonly as boys' name Kyrie) is of Greek origin, and the meaning of the name Kyrie is lord. Kyrie is an alternate spelling of Kyra (Greek). Kuri is a common surname. Kreatif forms: Keerie, Kirrie, Kryrie. 
[ 3 syll. ky-rie, kyr-ie ] The baby boy name Kyrie is also used as a girl name, with the latter form being somewhat more common. Its pronunciation is K IY-Riy-Yey- †. Kyrie's origin, as well as its use, is in the Arabic language. It is derived from the element 'khayri' meaning benevolent. The name Kyree (Arabic) is a variant of Kyrie. Kyrie is somewhat popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been rising since the 2010s; before that, it was of very modest use only. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.012% of baby boys were given the name Kyrie.
Personal experiences with the name Kyrie: | Edit. It's my name! My daughter, Mercy's middle name. Kyrie is from the Kyrie Eleison of the church liturgy, meaning Lord, have mercy.. My name is Kyrie and I LOVE it. It's very unique, however I have met 2 other Kyries in my life. One was male, the other female. 
Kyrie is a rare given name for males and also a unique surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Kyrie for boys. Kyrie entered the list in 2012 and reached its apex position of #505 in the U.S. in the year 2014. Kyrie /ky-rie/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less regularly as girls' name Kyrie) is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Kyrie is lord. From Kyrios. Kyrie Eleison is used by Christians with the meaning Lord have mercy. Kreatif forms: Kierie, Koarie, Kykie
The name Kyrie is of Greek origin, and it means The Lord . It's a name commonly given to both boys and girls. 
The name Kyrie is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kyrie is: Lady. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition. People with this name are excited by change, adventure, and excitement.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kyrie and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kyrie and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Kyrie for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Kyrie is a girl name. The name Kyrie is of Latin origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Kyrie, a transliteration of Greek κύριε (Kyrie), vocative case of κύριος (Kyrios), on whose meaning see Kyrios (biblical term) , is a common name of an important prayer of Christian liturgy, also called the Kyrie eleison /ˈkɪəri.eɪ ɨˈleɪ.ɨsɒn/ (Greek: κύριε, ἐλέησον, Kýrie eleison, . eléison Kyrie, a transliteration of Greek κύριε (Kyrie), vocative case of κύριος (Kyrios), on whose meaning see Kyrios (biblical term) , is a common name of an important prayer of Christian liturgy, also called the Kyrie eleison /ˈkɪəri.eɪ ɨˈleɪ.ɨsɒn/ (Greek: κύριε, ἐλέησον, Kýrie eleison, . Eléison. contents
Meaning of Kyrie. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Kyrie means-the lord.The name Kyrie originated as an Latin-American name. The name Kyrie is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Latin-American Name Meaning-the lord. Origin-Latin-America.