Best Answer: Rather than cook your vegetables to crips cook them to Al Dente. That means with bite. When steaming carrots depending most on the size and cut steam them for around 8-10 minutes. Remember that even when you take them out the steamer there still hot so they will still keep cooking. When steaming brocoli make sure you cut off as much of the root as you can. Hi I am cooking Carrots, Broccoli and sprouts how long should I steam them for to keep them still slightly crisp.
To steam the vegetables, microwave them on high until they're as cooked as you like them. Most vegetables will take at least 5 minutes, but it really depends on how powerful your microwave is. Try starting with five minutes, then adding a minute at a time. When you remove the plastic wrap, be very careful. Here's how to steam vegetables in the microwave: Wash your vegetables, and then cut them up to the size you want to serve them. Place the vegetables in the microwave-safe bowl, and add a bit of water to the bottom of the bowl. Most vegetables don't need much water at al
How Long to Steam Vegetables. Asparagus: On the stovetop, asparagus are steamed approximately four minutes for thin spears. Add an extra minute or two for thicker spears. For asparagus, time steaming in the microwave is relatively the same: four to six minutes. For microwave steaming, cook cauliflower for three to four minutes. Green Beans: Steam green beans on the stovetop for about five minutes. In the microwave, steam green beans for three to four minutes. Peas: Peas steamed on the stovetop take about three minutes. In the microwave, steam peas for one to two minutes.
Once the water is boiling, most vegetables can be steamed in five minutes or less. Don’t steam vegetables for longer than seven or eight minutes, or they will lose their vibrant color. Meat and fish steam in 3-10 minutes, depending on the size and thickness of the food. 
Vegetable Steaming Times (Chart). If you're always short of time when it comes to cooking a dinner, consider steaming food. Steaming is an easy and relatively quick way to prepare vegetables such as carrots, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, asparagus, beans, beets, cauliflower, celery, and radishes. Steaming veggies, whether fresh or frozen, in a stainless steel steamer basket or a bamboo steamer is also one of the healthiest cooking methods.
If you want to steam mixed vegetables at the same time, add the longer-cooking veggies first and then the quicker-cooking veggies after a few minutes. You can also cut the denser vegetables slightly smaller so that they cook more quickly and finish at the same time as the rest of the vegetables. 1 Steam the vegetables: Start checking the vegetables after a few minutes. 2  Tender vegetables, like broccoli and asparagus, will cook in just a few minutes. 3  Harder vegetables, like carrots and potatoes, will take longer.
Or, if you want to cook vegetables with different cooking times, begin cooking the vegetables that require more cooking time and adding the other vegetables afterwards. For example, cook sweet potatoes (which require 7 minutes of steaming) for 2 minutes before adding broccoli (which requires 5 minutes of steaming). 
In the microwave, steam for about five minutes. Cauliflower: Cauliflower florets will steam on the stovetop in about six minutes. For microwave steaming, cook cauliflower for three to four minutes. Green Beans: Steam green beans on the stovetop for about five minutes. In the microwave, steam green beans for three to four minutes. Peas: Peas steamed on the stovetop take about three minutes. In the microwave, steam peas for one to two minutes.