Please use this list of Greek baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Zale in Greek origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. 
Meaning of Zale. Greek name. In Greek, the name Zale means-sea strength.The name Zale originated as an Greek name. The name Zale is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Greek Name Meaning-sea strength. Origin-Greece.
The name Zale is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Zale is: Power of the sea. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. 
You can find out where the majority of the Zale families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Zale birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
Zale has 1 variant: Zayle. Zale is an unusual first name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#28947 out of 150436, Top 19%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Zale for boys. Zale has yet to be recorded in the list so far
Zale /za-le/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Zale is sea-strength. Zale is an unusual first name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#28947 out of 150436, Top 19%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Zale is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Zale include Zael, Zail, Zaile, Zayl, Zayle, Zeyl, Zeyle, Zeal, Zeale, Zeel, Zeele, Zell, Zelle, Zoel, Zoylow, Aislie, Giles, Gilles, Zaele, and Zahal. † English pronunciation for Zale: Z as in zoo (Z.UW) ; EY as in ate (EY.T) ; L as in lay (L.EY).
In Greek, the name Zale means-sea strength.The name Zale originated as an Greek name. The name Zale is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Greek Name Meaning-sea strength. Greek name. In Greek, the name Zale means-sea strength.The name Zale originated as an Greek name. The name Zale is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Greek Name Meaning-sea strength. Origin-Greece.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Zale immigration records. You can find out when most of the Zale families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI). Click on a circle in the chart to view Zale birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
Comments and insights on the name Zale: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Zale: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Zale: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Zale: | Edit. Strength of the sea.