Method. Cake. 1 Preheat oven to 350° F. Butter and flour three 9-inch round cake pans. 2 In a large bowl, vigorously whisk together the dry ingredients: flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg (optional). 3 In a separate bowl, whisk the canola oil, sugar, and eggs together until combined. 
Make the cake: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 8-inch round cake pans and line with parchment paper. Butter the parchment and dust with flour. Spread the pecans on a baking sheet and bake until fragrant and toasted, about 8 minutes. Let cool slightly, then roughly chop. Toss with the bananas, pineapple and 1/2 cup flour in a small bowl. Whisk the remaining 2 1/4 cups flour, the cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, baking soda and salt in a bowl. Beat the eggs and granulated sugar in a separate bowl with a mixer on high speed until thick and light, 5 minutes
Yellow Butter Cake. Hummingbird Cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Butter, or spray with a non stick spray, two - 9 x 2 inch (23 x 5 cm) round cake pans and line the bottoms of the pans with parchment paper. Place the pecans on a baking sheet and bake for about 8 minutes or until lightly browned and fragrant. 
Hummingbird cake is a banana pineapple spice cake common in the Southern United States. Ingredients include flour, sugar, salt, ripe banana, pineapple, cinnamon, pecans, vanilla extract, eggs, and leavening agent. 
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Spray and flour three 8-by-2-inch round cake pans, tapping out excess flour; set aside. Prepare the cake; in a large bowl, stir to combine self-rising flour, sugar, oil, pecans, bananas, pineapple, vanilla, cinnamon, and eggs. 
Combine first 5 ingredients in a large bowl; add eggs and oil, stirring until dry ingredients are moistened. (Do not beat.) Stir in vanilla, pineapple, 1 cup pecans, and bananas. Pour batter into three greased and floured 9-inch round cakepans. Bake at 350° for 25 to 30 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool in pans on wire racks 10 minutes; remove from pans, and cool completely on wire racks. 
1 Do not beat. 2  Stir in bananas, 2 teaspoons vanilla, pineapple, and 1 cup pecans. 3  Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until done. 4  Cool on a wire rack. 5  Beat 1/2 cup pecans, cream cheese, butter or margarine, confectioners sugar, and 1 teaspoon vanilla together until light and fluffy. 6  Spread over the top of the cooled cake. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Grease and flour a large cookie sheet with sides, or an 11 x 17 inch jelly roll pan. 3  Combine flour, white sugar, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon in a large bowl. 4  Add eggs and oil; stir until moistened.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Grease and flour 2 - 9 inch cake pans. 3  Sift together the flour, sugar, baking soda and salt. 4  Set aside. 5  In a large bowl, combine the oil, eggs, pineapple, bananas and nuts. 6  Add flour mixture, and mix together by hand. 1 Sift together the flour, sugar, baking soda and salt. 2  Set aside. 3  In a large bowl, combine the oil, eggs, pineapple, bananas and nuts. 4  Add flour mixture, and mix together by hand. 5  Pour batter into prepared pans and bake for 1 hour or until a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean.
The giveaway to the Hummingbird cake’s birthplace, however, is in the key ingredients – bananas and pineapple. Hopefully you’re already thinking of the Caribbean, and it’s thought to have been invented in Jamaica, probably in the late ‘60s. The Hummingbird cake is a very unusual one. For a start, it’s made with oil rather than butter, and contains more fruit than flour. The mix doesn’t need beating, goes dynamite with a cream cheese icing and often involves spices and nuts.