The saying in it's entirety is The blood of covenant is thicker than the water of the womb.. Meaning that the relationships you choose to be in are more substantial and meaningful than those thrust upon you be biology (I.e. The original quote is The blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the womb.. Which means that relationships forged by choice hold deeper meaning than those of mere biology.
Blood is thicker than water is: 1  the title of a series of mixtapes by Nu Jerzey Devil, The Game, Black Wall Street Records, Dipset and Lil Wayne, produced by DJ Haze. 2  a song title by Impaled Nazarene, off the 1994 album Suomi Finland Perkele. 3  a book by W. A. Hoffman, now out of print. Open main menu. In modern society, the proverb  blood is thicker than water  is used to imply that family ties are always more important than the ties you make among friend. Another interpretation of the quote is 
I enjoyed reading Blood Is Thicker by Paul Langan, because it is based on events that could happen in real life. This book connects with teenagers and family's who have medical issues such as cancer ... Review: Blood Is Thicker (Bluford High #8). Great short novel about family, growing up, growing apart, leaving behind homes, and misunderstandings. My favorite from the Bluford series after The Bully.. Some moments felt like they were leading ...
135 pages on this wiki. Blood Is Thicker is the eighth episode of season two, and the thirty-second episode of the series. It was written by Bob Goodman, and directed by John Polson. The episode premiered on November 14, 2013. When a beautiful young woman is murdered, Holmes and Watson investigate her ties to a billionaire CEO. Meanwhile, Mycroft makes a case for Sherlock to move back to London.
books.google.com-Hakeem Randall can't take it anymore. First he must leave his friends at Bluford High and move in with his uncle in faraway Detroit. Then things go from bad to worse when Hakeem is forced to share a bedroom with his moody and secretive cousin, Savon.... Review: Blood Is Thicker (Bluford High #8). Great short novel about family, growing up, growing apart, leaving behind homes, and misunderstandings. My favorite from the Bluford series after The Bully.. Some moments felt like they were leading ...
Blood is thicker than water is commonly understood to be that the family relationship is stronger than the bonds of unrelated people,, however, the blood it is talking about is the blood of covenant. In covenant relationship, two parties would cut their hand and shake hands, mingling the blood. The original quote is The blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the womb.. Which means that relationships forged by choice hold deeper meaning than those of mere biology.
Hakeem Randall can't take it anymore. First he must leave his friends at Bluford High and move in with his uncle in faraway Detroit. Then things go from bad to worse when Hakeem is forced to share a bedroom with his moody and secretive cousin, Savon. Preview this book ». Review: Blood Is Thicker (Bluford High #8). Great short novel about family, growing up, growing apart, leaving behind homes, and misunderstandings. My favorite from the Bluford series after The Bully.. Some moments felt like they were leading ...
We, in the West, are accustomed to say that blood is thicker than water ; but the Arabs have the idea that blood is thicker than milk, than a mother's milk. With them, any two children nourished at the same breast are called milk-brothers, or sucking brothers; and the tie between such is very strong. Open main menu. In modern society, the proverb  blood is thicker than water  is used to imply that family ties are always more important than the ties you make among friend. Another interpretation of the quote is 