Cilia and Flagella Cilia and flagella are motile cellular appendages found in most microorganisms and animals, but not in higher plants. In multicellular organisms, cilia function to move a cell or group of cells or to help transport fluid or materials past them. The respiratory tract in humans is lined with cilia that keep inhaled dust, smog, and potentially harmful microorganisms from entering the lungs.
There are two types of cilia, motile cilia (moving cilia) and non-motile cilia. Motile cilia constantly beat in a single direction, whilst non-motile cilia typically sense the cells’ environment. Non-motile cilia are often referred to as ‘primary’ cilia. As these types of cilia are usually present on a cell’s surface in large numbers, they beat in coordinated waves. An example of motile cilia can be found in humans in the lining of the windpipe, where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs. Normally a cell only has one non-motile cilium. There are some cells in the body that have a specialized primary cilium which have a very important job to do. For example in the human eye, there is a primary cilium that connects the outer segment of the rod photoreceptor cell to its cell body
Source: Amelia Shoemark. ' Motile ' (or moving) cilia are found in the lungs, respiratory tract and middle ear. These cilia have a rhythmic waving or beating motion (see right). They work, for instance, to keep the airways clear of mucus and dirt, allowing us to breathe easily and without irritation. They also help propel sperm. 
Larger eukaryotes, such as mammals, have motile cilia as well. Motile cilia are usually present on a cell's surface in large numbers and beat in coordinated waves. 1  In humans, for example, motile cilia are found in the lining of the trachea (windpipe), where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs.
Many microorganisms and cell types contain cilia or flagella, which are whip-like structures that propel a motile cell, move external materials around a fixed cell, or act as non-motile sensory elements. The basal body is an example of a microtubule-organizing center, or MTOC. These structures are unique because they consist of the gamma form of tubulin. The tubulin proteins in flagella and cilia are of the alpha and beta variety. As an MTOC, the basal body stabilizes the microtubules and supports their movement.
They are the legs of a cell and they help it move around. Flagella are single long whip-like structures that propel the cell forwards. You can see these on sperm. Cilia are a multitude of tiny hair-like structures surrounding the perimeter of the cell--like a millipede. They can move in any direction. You have these in your lungs--they help move the phlegm out of your lungs when you are congested. Source(s): http://ca.answers.yahoo.com/question/ind... 
Types of Cilia in the Body. In the body, cilia on the surface of tissues are responsible for protecting a person from germs in the lungs and for pushing an ovum through the Fallopian tube, among other tasks. These cilia are called motile cilia, and they are found in groups and beat in waves. Common in single-cell organisms, these hair-like structure wave to move the cell around or to move something around the cell. Cilia also are present on most cells in the human body.
The term cilia is Latin for eyelashes.. Common in single-cell organisms, these hair-like structure wave to move the cell around or to move something around the cell. Cilia also are present on most cells in the human body.
A cilium (Latin for eyelash; the plural is cilia) is an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Cilia are slender protuberances that project from the much larger cell body. There are two types of cilia: motile cilia and non-motile, or primary cilia, which typically serve as sensory organelles. In eukaryotes, motile cilia and flagella together make up a group of organelles known as undulipodia. Motile cilia are usually present on a cell's surface in large numbers and beat in coordinated waves. 1  In humans, for example, motile cilia are found in the lining of the trachea (windpipe), where they sweep mucus and dirt out of the lungs.