Best Answer: Technically anything you do to avoid getting pregnant is birth control. :) Besides hormonal (whether pills, implant, shots), there are condoms, including the female condom. There's the IUD, hormonal or not, which irritates the uterus to prevent implantation of fertilized eggs. There will always be a chance of pregnancy without birth control. Even condoms are not 100%. Fish oil pills can get rid of migraines. It may sound weird but I no someone who this actually works for.
1 Birth control is the use of practices, medications, or devices to prevent pregnancy. 2  Natural methods of birth control, or natural family planning, are a type of birth control that relies on observations about the woman's body and menstrual cycle. Reader Stories. 1  Share Your Story. 2  Birth control is the use of practices, medications, or devices to prevent pregnancy. 3
Spermicide is a form of birth control that comes in a jelly, foam, or cream and has a 28% failure rate with typical use. Find out more about the pros and cons of using spermicide. Withdrawal is a form of birth control in which the penis is removed from the vagina before ejaculation. This is not regarded as a highly effective method of birth control.
You have it backwards. You can avoid pregnancy by using a condom as a form of birth control. If you do not use a condom, you risk pregnancy and other health-related iss … ues. If you have sex, and you don't wish to become pregnant, use a condom. 2 people found this useful. 
Natural Methods. This section covers Natural birth control methods, withdrawal and abstinence. Natural birth control methods teach women to determine the fertile phase (typically 7 to 10 days long) of their menstrual cycle. To avoid pregnancy, women avoid intercourse on fertile days. There are many variations of natural birth control. 
In this article. Birth control is a way for men and women to prevent pregnancy. There are many different methods of birth control, including hormonal contraception such as the pill.. Women take the pill by mouth to prevent pregnancy, and, when taken correctly, it is up to 99.9% effectiv
Ok point is, whenever you use birth control it will ALWAYS be a 50-50 chance, meaning its either a yes or a no when it comes to getting pregnant. a device could be 99.9% preventful but there are some women who get the unfortunate luck of being in that 1% categorie. There will always be a chance of pregnancy without birth control. Even condoms are not 100%. Fish oil pills can get rid of migraines. It may sound weird but I no someone who this actually works for.
1 EC can give you a second chance to prevent pregnancy after sex. 2  You can use EC as many times in a month as you need it, but remember, it is not as effective as birth control that's used before or during sex, like the pill or condoms. 3  It also causes more side effects than regular birth control methods. 
When I got fed up with the LadyComp/condom combination, the next thing I tried was the copper IUD, which is inserted into the uterus through the cervix. It is effective for up to ten years, is a non-hormonal form of birth control, and allows you to have sex without using a barrier at any point in your cycle. What I wasn’t told before getting the IUD was that: 1  It keeps the cervix in a constant state of inflammation. 2  It can create copper toxicity in your body