No environmental risks are known and the mother's age does not play a role. Turner syndrome is due to a chromosomal abnormality in which all or part of one of the X chromosomes is missing or altered. While most people have 46 chromosomes, people with TS usually only have 45. The chromosomal abnormality may be present in just some cells in which case it is known as TS with mosaicism. Turner syndrome occurs in between one in 2000 and one in 5000 females at birth. All regions of the world and cultures are affected about equally. People with TS have a shorter life expectancy, mostly due to heart problems and diabetes. Henry Turner first described the condition in 1938.
Section: TURNER’S SYNDROME (TS) IS the result of complete or partial X chromosome monosomy in a phenotypic female, associated with characteristic clinical features, the most consistent being short stature and gonadal dysgenesis. Section: Turner’s syndrome is the most common chromosomal abnormality in females, affecting 1:2,500 live female births. It is a result of absence of an X chromosome or the presence of a structurally abnormal X chromosome. Its most consistent clinical features are short stature and ovarian failure.
Turner syndrome. Turner syndrome is a growth disorder caused by the complete or partial lack of one of the female sex chromosomes. This results in a range of complications, including stunted growth and development, an increased risk of heart and kidney problems, and infertility. Growth hormone. Human growth hormone is a standard part of treatment for Turner syndrome. The primary purpose of growth hormone is to regain height in girls with TS. Growth hormone is delivered via injections several times a week.
Most commonly, people with Turner syndrome have an abnormally short stature—the average height of a person with TS who has not been treated with growth hormone is 4 ft 8 in. Also, most people experience early menopause due to ovarian insufficiency. Distinctive physical features may also be associated with the Turner syndrome. These include: 1  low-set ears. 2  neck hair that extends down toward the shoulders. 3  excess skin on the neck. 4  droopy eyes.
Turner syndrome is a frequent chromosome disorder in clinical practice. It is characterized by short stature, gonadal dysgenesia and multisystemic involvement, responsible for a high morbidity and reduced life expectancy. 
Continue ReadingTurner Syndrome Symptoms. Turner syndrome (TS) is a condition that affects approximately 1 out of every 2,000 girls in the United States. It is caused by the complete or partial lack of one of the female sex chromosomes. Distinctive physical features may also be associated with the Turner syndrome. These include: 1  low-set ears. 2  neck hair that extends down toward the shoulders. 3  excess skin on the neck. 4  droopy eyes.
Turner syndrome is one of the more common genetic disorders, associated with abnormalities of the X chromosome, and occurring in about 50 per 100 000 liveborn girls. Epidemiological, endocrine and metabolic features in Turner syndrome. Gravholt CH(1). Author information: (1)Medical Department M (Endocrinology and Diabetes) and Medical Research Laboratories, Arhus Sygehus, Aarhus University Hospital, DK-8000 Arhus C, Denmark.