yea, you need a premium account to add friends, but free accounts can accept friend invites on the bottom right of steam, click view friends, then click add a friend. Rod Lane · 4 years ago.
1 Purchasing game(s) that are equal to $5 USD or more from the Steam store. 2  Adding a Steam Wallet card that is equal to $5 USD or more to your Steam account. 3  Purchasing a Steam gift that is equal to $5 USD or more from the Steam store (Receiving a Steam gift from a friend doesn't count).
When they tried to send me it as a gift via Steam but they needed to add me. So they tried to. Unfortunately since Steam requires money or time waste on a free download game to actually add a friend. This made it all stressful.
As a limited user your account is restricted from adding friends. However, you can still accept friend invites from other non-limited users. For example, if a friend is already on Steam and has spent $5 USD or more from the Steam store, they will be able to add you as a friend from your Steam Community profile. You may then accept their friend invite from your Steam account.
2. You can also send him a Steam Wallet code via PayPal Digital Gifts, so he doesn't need to have a paypal account (I had to do this yesterday for a friend without paypal) paypal-gifts.com/us/brands/steam-digital-wallet-code.html – James Manning Nov 3 '14 at 13:58.
For example, if a friend is already on Steam and has spent $5 USD or more from the Steam store, they will be able to add you as a friend from your Steam Community profile. You may then accept their friend invite from your Steam account.
Once clicking on the text it will bring up a small window where your friends will be displayed. At the bottom of the window there is some text that says.... Add friend. Click on it and you will then be able to enter your friends steam Username and send them a request. Once they accept they will be added to your friends list.
Report Abuse. yea, you need a premium account to add friends, but free accounts can accept friend invites on the bottom right of steam, click view friends, then click add a friend. Rod Lane · 4 years ago. Thumbs up.