A local-area network (LAN) is a computer network that spans a relatively small area. Most LANs are confined to a single building or group of buildings, however, one LAN can be connected to other LANs over any distance via telephone lines and radio waves. A system of LANs connected in this way is called a wide-area network (WAN) . Most LANs connect workstations and personal computers
A LAN (local area network) is a group of computers and network devices connected together, usually within the same building. By definition, the connections must be high speed and relatively inexpensive (e.g., token ring or Ethernet). Most Indiana University Bloomington departments are on LANs. A WAN (wide area network), in comparison to a MAN, is not restricted to a geographical location, although it might be confined within the bounds of a state or country. A WAN connects several LANs, and may be limited to an enterprise (a corporation or an organization) or accessible to the public.
Definition: A local area network (LAN) supplies networking capability to a group of computers in close proximity to each other such as in an office building, a school, or a home. A LAN is useful for sharing resources like files, printers, games or other applications. Most local area networks use Wi-Fi or Ethernet for connectivity between devices. (See also-Comparing Wired and Wireless Network Technology). Each of these local networks may stand alone (disconnected from any other network) or may connect to other LANs and additionally a WAN (such as the Internet)
A local area network (LAN) consists of two or more computers connected together in a building or home using software and hardware. This is contrasted to a wide area network (WAN) such as the Internet, which covers a large geographic area. In a LAN, there is a main computer or server, and remote computers called clients. 
vs. Brocade VCS. A local area network (LAN) is a group of computers and associated devices that share a common communications line or wireless link to a server. Typically, a LAN encompasses computers and peripherals connected to a server within a small geographic area such as an office building or home. Computers and other mobile devices can share resources such as a printer or network storage.
A LAN (local area network) is a group of computers and network devices connected together, usually within the same building  A WAN (wide area network), is not restricted to … a geographical location, although it might be confined within the bounds of a state or country. A LAN is a Local Area Network. Local is generally referred to a network contained within a building or an office or a campus. You might have a LAN for example on a University … campus or between office blocks in an office park.
WLAN vs LAN. LAN stands for Local Area Network, which is a collection of computers and other network devices in a certain location that are connected together by switches and/or routers that facilitate the communication of the network elements. 
A local area network (LAN) is a computer network that interconnects computers within a limited area such as a residence, school, laboratory, or office building. A local area network is contrasted in principle to a wide area network (WAN), which covers a larger geographic distance and may involve leased telecommunication circuits, while the media for LANs are locally managed.