Lacrimation, or lachrymation, (from Latin lacrima, meaning tear) is the secretion of tears, which often serves to clean and lubricate the eyes in response to an irritation of the eyes. Basal tears. In healthy mammalian eyes, the cornea is continually kept wet and nourished by basal tears. They lubricate the eye, and help to keep it clear of dust. Tear fluid contains water, mucin, lipids, lysozyme, lactoferrin, lipocalin, lacritin, immunoglobulins, glucose, urea, sodium, and potassium.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Donkun. Confidence votes 7. The eye's tears are composed of three layers: oil, water and mucous. The outermost oily layer is produced by the meibomian glands which line the edge of the eyelids. The watery portion of the tear film is produced by the lacrimal gland. This gland lies underneath the outer orbital rim bone, just below the eyebrow. The mucous layer comes from microscopic goblet cells in the conjunctiva
Tears secreted collect in the fornix conjunctiva of the upper lid, and pass over the eye surface to the lacrimal puncta, small holes found at the inner corner of the eyelids. These pass the tears through the lacrimal canaliculi on to the lacrimal sac, in turn to the nasolacrimal duct, which dumps them out into the nose. Inflammation of the lacrimal glands is called dacryoadenitis. The lacrimal gland produces tears which then flow into canals that lead to the lacrimal sac. From this sac, the tears drain through the lacrimal duct into the nose. Anatomists divide the gland into two sections.
1. a. A drop of the clear salty liquid that is secreted by the lachrymal gland of the eye to lubricate the surface between the eyeball and eyelid and to wash away irritants. b. tears A profusion of this liquid spilling from the eyes and wetting the cheeks, especially as an expression of emotion. pl n. 1. (Physiology) the clear salty solution secreted by the lacrimal glands that lubricates and cleanses the surface of the eyeball and inner surface of the eyelids. 2. a state of intense frustration (esp in the phrase bored to tears). 3. in tears weeping.
The clear watery fluid secreted by the lacrimal gland which, together with the secretions from the meibomian glands, the goblet cells, the gland of Zeis, as well as the accessory lacrimal glands of Krause and Wolfring, helps to maintain the conjunctiva and cornea moist and healthy. Etymology: ME, tere. a watery saline or alkaline fluid secreted by the lacrimal glands that, along with secretions from the meibomian glands and goblet cells and glands of Zeii, moisten the conjunctiva and cornea. Also called dacryon
The lacrimal glands are paired almond-shaped glands, one for each eye, that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film. They are situated in the upper, outer portion of each orbit, in the lacrimal fossa of the orbit formed by the frontal bone. Inflammation of the lacrimal glands is called dacryoadenitis. The lacrimal gland produces tears which then flow into canals that lead to the lacrimal sac. From this sac, the tears drain through the lacrimal duct into the nose. Anatomists divide the gland into two sections.
tears. pl n. 1. (Physiology) the clear salty solution secreted by the lacrimal glands that lubricates and cleanses the surface of the eyeball and inner surface of the eyelids. 2. a state of intense frustration (esp in the phrase bored to tears). 3. in tears weeping.
Definition of TEAR. 1. a: a drop of clear saline fluid secreted by the lacrimal gland and diffused between the eye and eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion b plural: a secretion of profuse tears that overflow the eyelids and dampen the face. 2. : a transparent drop of fluid or hardened fluid matter (as resin). 3.