An expenditure is a payment, while an expense is a cost that is reported on the profit-and-loss statement. Sometimes the expense can be the same thing as the expenditure. For example, salaries are expenditures that are expenses as well. Administrative and operational expenses are subtracted from the gross margin, as is depreciation, to arrive at operating income. A capital expenditure is not treated as a revenue expenditure on the income statement or the balance sheet.
Revenue Expenditure. Definition: A revenue expenditure is a cost that is charged to expense as soon as the cost is incurred. By doing so, a business is using the matching principle to link the expense incurred to revenues generated in the same accounting period. For example, the purchase of a fixed asset is categorized as an asset and charged to expense over multiple periods, to match the cost of the asset against multiple future periods of revenue generation. These expenditures are known as capital expenditures.
Expense Versus Expenditure. An expenditure is a payment, while an expense is a cost that is reported on the profit-and-loss statement. Sometimes the expense can be the same thing as the expenditure. For example, salaries are expenditures that are expenses as well. In other cases, they are completely different. Administrative and operational expenses are subtracted from the gross margin, as is depreciation, to arrive at operating income. A capital expenditure is not treated as a revenue expenditure on the income statement or the balance sheet.
Owner distributions are payments made to owners in the period and are considered revenue expenditures. If you purchase a piece of equipment and put it into service immediately, the cost to purchase the item is a revenue expenditure. These expenses are called cost of goods sold and are extracted from the product's revenue to determine the gross income for the period. Raw materials, direct labor wages used to create the product, storeroom supplies or packaging supplies are all considered as part of the cost of goods sold an
Repairs and maintenance expenses only maintain an asset’s life or current condition. For example, replacing a broken part on an engine is a repair expense, while upgrading the engine to increase a machine’s capacity is a capital expenditure. A company expenses an entire repair or maintenance expense at one time, but allocates a capital expenditure as an expense over time.
BREAKING DOWN 'Capital Expenditure (CAPEX)'. In terms of accounting, an expense is considered to be a capital expenditure when the asset is a newly purchased capital asset or an investment that improves the useful life of an existing capital asset. If an expense is a capital expenditure, it needs to be capitalized. Capital expenditure, or CapEx, are funds used by a company to acquire or upgrade physical assets such as property, industrial buildings or equipment. It is often used to undertake new projects or investments by the firm. This type of outlay is also made by companies to maintain or increase the scope of their operations.
Assets. With regards to assets, revenue expenditures are those that simply maintain an asset for regular use in company operations. For example, maintenance and repairs are expenses that show immediately on the income statement. Even if you hire someone to do an extensive repair, the cost is considered an expense. Because of the purpose, size and cost of capital expenditures, you do not record them on the income statement as an expense. Instead, you record them on the balance sheet as an asset with any offsetting liability -- for example, the loan used to acquire the asset.
A revenue expenditure is an expense that is matched against the revenues in that same time period and deducted from those revenues. Day-to-day operating expenses such as salaries, office supplies, advertising, sales commissions, utilities and telecommunications would be considered revenue expenditures. Administrative and operational expenses are subtracted from the gross margin, as is depreciation, to arrive at operating income. A capital expenditure is not treated as a revenue expenditure on the income statement or the balance sheet.
Revenue expenses related to existing assets include repairs and regular maintenance as well as repainting and renewal expenses. Revenue expenditures can be considered to be recurring expenses in contrast to the one-off nature of most capital expenditures. Revenue expenses are shorter-term expenses required to meet the ongoing operational costs of running a business, and thus are essentially the same as operating expenses. Unlike capital expenditures, revenue expenses can be fully tax-deducted in the same year the expenses occur.