Confidence votes 145. The Himalayas are a large mountain range in south central Asia, roughly between India and the Tibetan Plateau in southwest China. The small countries within the mountains are Nepal and Bhutan, and Tibet (which is claimed and occupied as a region of China). The Himalayas pass through the countries of India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan, Nepal and Burma. Most of the Himalayas are located in Nepal, Bhutan and the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh in India. The outlying part … s of the range lie in Tibet, Pakistan (some in disputed territories) and Burma.
Himalayas. The Himalayas, a huge mountain range immediately at the north of the Indian subcontinent, is the world's highest mountain range, and home to the world's highest peaks, including Mount Everest at 8,848 m (29,029 ft), and K2 at 8,611 m (28,251 feet) above sea level. 
The Himalayas span five countries: India, Nepal, Bhutan, China (Tibet), and Pakistan, with the first three countries having sovereignty over most of the range. Lifted by the collision of the Indian tectonic plate with the Eurasian Plate, the Himalayan range runs northwest to southeast in a 2,400 kilometres (1,500 mi) long arc. The range varies in width from 400 kilometres (250 mi) in the west to 150 kilometres (93 mi) in the east.
View The Himalayas in a larger map. Name: Himalayas, Sanskrit for ‘abode of snow’. Geography: The Himalayas stretch across the northeastern portion of India. They cover approximately 1,500 mi (2,400 km) and pass through the nations of India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan and Nepal. Glaciers: The Himalayas are the third largest deposit of ice and snow in the world, after Antarctica and the Arctic. There are approximately 15,000 glaciers located throughout the range. At 48 miles (72 km) in length, the Himalayan Siachen glacier is the largest glacier outside the poles.
The Himalayas are bordered on the north by the Tibetan Plateau, on the south by the Indo-Gangetic Plain, on the northwest by the Karakoram and Hindu Kush ranges, and on the east by the Indian states of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. Lifted by the collision of the Indian tectonic plate with the Eurasian Plate, the Himalayan range runs northwest to southeast in a 2,400 kilometres (1,500 mi) long arc. The range varies in width from 400 kilometres (250 mi) in the west to 150 kilometres (93 mi) in the east.
The most easily available access to the best of the Himalayas is in Northern India, Nepal, Tibet, and Bhutan. The Himalayas are home to many of the world’s highest mountains; Everest, K2, Kangchenjunga and Nanda Devi. Even though the Himalayas are not the longest mountain range (that title belongs to the Andes), they do have the distinction of being the youngest and therefore, due to less time weathering, the highest mountain range in the world with over 30 peaks higher than 7315 metres/24000 feet.
The Himalayas. The Himalayas are mountains that are located in southern Asia. They are a part of in Nepal, India, Pakistan, Tibet and Bhutan. The mountains are the highest in the world, reaching almost 9,000 meters above sea level. The Himalayas separate the Indian subcontinent from the inner part of Asia. 14 mountains are over 8,000 meters high, among them the K2, Nanga Parbat and Mount Everest, at 8,848 meter the world’s highest mountain. The Himalayas extend over 1,500 miles (2,400 km) from the Indus Valley in the west to the Brahmaputra Valley in the east. They are between 100 and 250 kilometers wide.
The Himalayas are a mountain range in South Asia, the highest in the world. The west end is in Pakistan. They run through Jammu and Kashmir, into the Republic of India 's Himachal Pradesh and Uttaranchal states, Nepal, and the Kingdoms of Sikkim, and Bhutan. They end in the south of China's Tibetan Autonomous Region. 
The Mountain range in Asia referred to as the Himalayas crosses 6 countries: Bhutan, China, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Kashmir and Afghanistan.   located in south centeral As … ia The Himalayas pass through India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Bhutan and Nepal and Burma. In India it stretches across five states: Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and in China it is Tibet. Most of the Himalayas are located in Nepal, Bhutan and the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh in India. The outlying part … s of the range lie in Tibet, Pakistan (some in disputed territories) and Burma.