Description: Termsrv.dll is not essential for the Windows OS and causes relatively few problems. Termsrv.dll is located in the C:\Windows\System32 folder. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 295,424 bytes (52% of all occurrences), 296,448 bytes, 296,960 bytes or 295,936 bytes. The service can be started or stopped from Services in the Control Panel or by other programs.
Since termsrv.exe is a system process it should not be stopped. The process is required for your PC to work properly. Scan Windows processes now to identify unused processes that are affecting your PC’s performance. This program is a non-essential process, but should not be terminated unless suspected to be causing problems. . termsrv.exe is a system process that is needed for your PC to work properly. It should not be removed.
DLL is the abbreviation for D ynamic L ink L ibrary. DLL files are needed by programs or web browser extensions, because they contain program code, data, and resources. The following information can help you determine if termsrv.dll is a Windows system file or if it belongs to an application that you can trust. Click to Run a Free Scan for termsrv.dll related errors. Termsrv.dll is located in the C:\Windows\System32 folder. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 295,424 bytes (52% of all occurrences), 296,448 bytes, 296,960 bytes or 295,936 bytes. The service can be started or stopped from Services in the Control Panel or by other programs.
termsrv.exe is a process belonging to the Windows Terminal Server Service which provides support for terminal based remote control of your computer. This program is a non-essential process, but should not be terminated unless suspected to be causing problems. termsrv.exe should not be disabled, required for essential applications to work properly.
Termsrv.dll is a type of DLL file associated with MSDN Disc 1103 developed by Microsoft for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Termsrv.dll is 1.0.0.0, which was produced for Windows. If your termsrv.dll error is related to a specific program, reinstalling MSDN Disc 1103-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button.
termsrv.exe is a process belonging to the Windows Terminal Server Service which provides support for terminal based remote control of your computer. This program is a non-essential process, but should not be terminated unless suspected to be causing problems. . termsrv.exe is a system process that is needed for your PC to work properly. It should not be removed. Check your system now to identify unused processes that are slowing down your computer. termsrv.exe. In order to ensure your files and data are not lost, be sure to back up your files online
Important: Some malware disguises itself as termsrv.dll, particularly when not located in the C:\Windows\System32 folder. Therefore, you should check the termsrv.dll process on your PC to see if it is a threat. We recommend Security Task Manager for verifying your computer's security. Termsrv.dll is located in the C:\Windows\System32 folder. Known file sizes on Windows 8/7/XP are 295,424 bytes (52% of all occurrences), 296,448 bytes, 296,960 bytes or 295,936 bytes. The service can be started or stopped from Services in the Control Panel or by other programs.
If your pc has a dll file called ‘termsrv.dll’ on it, your computer might be infected with a variant of the dagonit trojan. termsrv.dll is considered to be a security risk, not only because antivirus programs flag dagonit trojan as a trojan, but also because other sites consider it a Trojan as well. 
Step 7: Uninstall and Reinstall the MSDN Disc 1103 Program Associated with Termsrv.dll. If your termsrv.dll error is related to a specific program, reinstalling MSDN Disc 1103-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button. 2  Click Control Panel on the right side menu. 3  Click Programs. 4  Click Programs and Features
Terminal Server Service This process is still being reviewed. If you have some information about it feel free to send us an email at pl[at]uniblue[dot]com. Non-system processes like termsrv.dll originate from software you installed on your system. Since most applications store data in your system's registry, it is likely that over time your registry suffers fragmentation and accumulates invalid entries which can affect your PC's performance. A safe way to stop these errors is to uninstall the application and run a system scan to automatically identify any PC issues. Multiple copies of a process in your task manager may indicate the presence of a virus or Trojan.