Raw fish, which is eaten with wasabi and soy sauce, is known in Japan as “sashimi.”. By strict definition, the word “sushi” refers to cold rice that’s been mixed with vinegar, molded into a circular shape and garnished with a piece of seafood or vegetable. What Westerners know as sushi (the rice roll wrapped in dried seaweed) is called “makisushi” and is just one of several different types of sushi. 
Sushi (すし, 寿司, 鮨) is a Japanese food consisting of cooked vinegared rice (鮨飯, sushi-meshi) combined with other ingredients (ネタ, neta) , seafood, vegetables and sometimes tropical fruits. The original type of sushi, known today as nare-zushi (馴れ寿司, 熟寿司 ,) was first made in Southeast Asia, maybe along what is also known as the Mekong River.
Sushi means vinegared rice. It does not mean raw fish. The food called sushi in Japan is not a dish of raw fish, but a dish of a kind of rice. Raw fish alone, without rice, is called sashimi. The rice used in sushi, sushi-meshi, is made using rice vinegar [ o-su (お酢)] and sugar mixed with cooked rice.
It is not certain where the word sushi comes from but one   assumption is that it is a combination of the Chinese word for preserved   fish chee - which was then converted into Japanese as shi - and a   simplified word for the Japanese word sour or suppai. Sushi   is a Japanese form of serving rice. The rice is mixed with a touch of   vinegar and sugar and is then combined with vegetables, fish (cooked and   raw) and … other foods to make a combination that is both tasty and   visually appealing.
Ingredients and forms of sushi presentation vary widely, but the ingredient which all sushi have in common is rice (also referred to as shari (しゃり) or sumeshi (酢飯)). Sushi can be prepared with either brown or white rice. It is often prepared with raw seafood, but some common varieties of sushi use cooked ingredients or are vegetarian. Raw fish (or occasionally other meat) sliced and served without rice is called  sashimi . The original type of sushi, known today as nare-zushi (馴れ寿司, 熟寿司 ,) was first made in Southeast Asia, maybe along what is also known as the Mekong River.
In the Western world, sushi is often misunderstood to mean only clumps of rice topped with raw fish, or to refer to other raw-seafood dishes, such as sashimi (sushi and sashimi are considered distinct in Japan). There are various types of sushi. What is the translation into english. I dont know if it means raw fish or something else. Please help. I know that there is a translation to Raw fish and then into something else. Update: If Sushi does not mean raw fish, then what does it mean. 1 following. 11 answers 11.
Best Answer: Japan. Sushi is a Japanese dish. Here is some history on it from wikipedia: The traditional form of sushi is fermented fish and rice, preserved with salt in a process that has been traced to Southeast Asia, where it remains popular today. Originally, this sushi was known as Edomae zushi, because it used freshly caught fish in the Edo-mae (Edo Bay or Tokyo Bay). Though the fish used in modern sushi no longer usually comes from Tokyo Bay, it is still formally known as Edomae nigirizushi.
The term sushi comes from an archaic grammatical form no longer used in other contexts; literally, sushi means it's sour, a reflection of its historic fermented roots. The science behind the fermentation of fish packed in rice is that the vinegar produced from fermenting rice breaks the fish down into amino acids. Originally, this sushi was known as Edomae zushi, because it used freshly caught fish in the Edo-mae (Edo Bay or Tokyo Bay). Though the fish used in modern sushi no longer usually comes from Tokyo Bay, it is still formally known as Edomae nigirizushi.
Best Answer: In Japanese cuisine, sushi is a food made of vinegared rice combined with various toppings or fillings, which are most commonly seafood and can also include meat, vegetables, mushrooms, or eggs. Sushi toppings may be raw, cooked, or marinated. Sushi as an English word has come to refer to the complete dish (rice together with toppings); this is the sense used in this article. The original term Japanese: 寿司 sushi (-zushi in some compounds sush as makizushi) in the Japanese language refers to the rice, not the fish or other toppings. What is the translation into english. I dont know if it means raw fish or something else. Please help. I know that there is a translation to Raw fish and then into something else. Update: If Sushi does not mean raw fish, then what does it mean. 1 following. 11 answers 11.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Thethethethe. Sushi is a Japanese form of serving rice. The rice is mixed with a touch of vinegar and sugar and is then combined with vegetables, fish (cooked and raw) and other foods to make a combination that is both tasty and visually appealing. Legend has it that an old woman hid her cooked rice in a bird nest to keep it away from pillaging soldiers. 