The impact of 1 pound of N2O on warming the atmosphere is over 300 times that of 1 pound of carbon dioxide. Globally, about 40% of total N2O emissions come from human activities. Unlike many other greenhouse gases, fluorinated gases have no natural sources and only come from human-related activities. Fluorinated gases are removed from the atmosphere only when they are destroyed by sunlight in the far upper atmosphere. In general, fluorinated gases are the most potent and longest lasting type of greenhouse gases emitted by
Global warming is driven partially by human pollution. The pollutants that contribute to global warming are commonly known as greenhouse gas emissions. Carbon dioxide is probably the best known greenhouse gas, but methane, nitrous oxide and fluorinated gases also play a role in driving climate change (see Reference 1). Human activities that cause global warming pollution can be best understand by examining the various sources of each type of greenhouse gas. Carbon dioxide represents 85 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions emitted from human sources in the United States (See Reference 2). Globally, the largest source of carbon emissions is the combustion of fossil fuels like coal, natural gas and oil for energy
In 2010, CH4 accounted for about 10% of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions from human activities. Methane is emitted by natural sources such as wetlands, as well as human activities such as leakage from natural gas systems and the raising of livestock. Natural processes in soil and chemical reactions in the atmosphere help remove CH4 from the atmosphere. Fluorinated gases are removed from the atmosphere only when they are destroyed by sunlight in the far upper atmosphere. In general, fluorinated gases are the most potent and longest lasting type of greenhouse gases emitted by
A greenhouse gas (sometimes abbreviated GHG) is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. This process is the fundamental cause of the greenhouse effect. The primary greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Without greenhouse gases, the average temperature of Earth's surface would be about 15 °C (27 °F) colder than the present average of 14 °C (57 °F). The main sources of greenhouse gases due to human activity are: 1  burning of fossil fuels and deforestation leading to higher carbon dioxide concentrations in the air. 2  Land use change (mainly deforestation in the tropics) account for up to one third of total anthropogenic CO 2 emissions.
A potent greenhouse gas, methane is even more effective at trapping heat in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide (see Reference 5). Methane emissions come from a number of human sources, including coal mining, landfills, natural gas and petroleum production, wastewater treatment and even rice cultivation. Carbon dioxide represents 85 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions emitted from human sources in the United States (See Reference 2). Globally, the largest source of carbon emissions is the combustion of fossil fuels like coal, natural gas and oil for energy
Greenhouse gases of concern include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and fluorinated gases. Scientists say that increased levels of these gases are contributing to climate change. Water vapor is the most abundant greenhouse gas, but human activity isn’t considered a direct cause of changes in its concentration. Global warming, on the other hand, is the increase in the earth's average temperature due to the buildup of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere from human activities. Global warming is causing
Fluorinated gases (F-gases) are man-made gases that can stay in the atmosphere for centuries and contribute to a global greenhouse effect. 
3. atmosphere are carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2 O), and fluorinated hydrocarbon gases. Some of these, such as carbon dioxide, are emitted through both natural processes and human actions. Others, such as fluorinated gases, are created and emitted only though human activities. 
Behind the struggle to address global warming and climate change lies the increase in greenhouse gases in our atmosphere. A greenhouse gas is any gaseous compound in the atmosphere that is capable of absorbing infrared radiation, thereby trapping and holding heat in the atmosphere. By increasing the heat in the atmosphere, greenhouse gases are responsible for the greenhouse effect, which ultimately leads to global warming. Carbon dioxide has a significant impact on global warming partly because of its abundance in the atmosphere. According to the EPA, in 2012, U.S. greenhouse gas emissions totaled 6,526 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents, which equaled 82 percent of all human caused greenhouse gasses.