It's a bad idea to use the price-per-plate as a measure for how much you should spend on the wedding gift, says Jessica Silvester, a deputy editor and wedding expert with New York magazine. We just don't know how much we are expected to spend on a wedding gift. Unfortunately, there's no simple answer and no set amount you should spend (or amount you should give if gifting cash). The amount you spend is dependent upon your budget and relationship with the wedding couple (or their parents).
The average friend of the couple spends $79 on a wedding gift, according to TheKnot.com. Family members spend nearly twice that: $146. The Knot advises wedding guests to consider the following formula: 1  Co-worker or distant family friend or relative: $75-$100. 
The majority of wedding guests who are friends of the bride and groom spent less than $100 for a gift, according to a 2010 survey by TheKnot.com. Relatives shelled out an average of $146 on wedding gifts and were twice as likely to spend more than $100 compared with friends of the couple. Spend 20% of your budget on the engagement party gift, 20% on a gift for a bridal shower or other pre-wedding occasion, and reserve 60% for the wedding gift itself. “Outline your budget ahead of time to see what is doable for you,” says TheKnot.com editor Jamie Miles. 3
The closer you are to the couple, the higher the amount you should probably give. For example, a standard amount of around $50 to $75 per person attending is suitable for casual acquaintances and friends from work. Personal friends and relations come in a bit higher, around $75 to $100 per person. 
If you're attending a relative or a friend's wedding, the wedding website suggests somewhere between $100 and $125. TheKnot.com also took the pulse of what real brides and grooms have spent on weddings in the past in its registry study. On average, friends spend $79 on the bride and groom's present, said Miles. Family members, meanwhile, spend an average of $146. Hill says, though, overall wedding guests should assess their budget and how well they know the bride and groom. A lot of times, gift etiquette can also be regional. It's not uncommon to see cash gifts at weddings in the tri-state area, while in the other parts of the country, such as the Midwest or in the southern areas of the U.S., physical gifts or registry items tend to be more common.
Wedding planner Lynzie Kent says a general rule is to give a gift that at least covers the cost of your reception dinner. It used to be $100 a head is kind of the going rate, but these days I think it's anywhere between $150 and $250 per person, Kent told CTVNews.ca. Andrews Sunkel said one of the most common questions she's asked is how much cash to give, and she believes it should be based on your relationship with the couple, and what you're comfortable with. But when really pressed for a dollar figure, she said between $100 and $150 per person is appropriate.
Anja Winikka: How much you give really depends on your relationship with the bride and groom. Here’s a useful breakdown: If you’re a co-worker or a distant family friend or relative: $75 to $100. If you’re a relative or friend of the bride or groom: $100 to $125. If you’re a close relative or a close friend: $100-$150+. 
Not only is the cost of a wedding soaring — couples spent an average of $30,000 in 2013, according to TheKnot.com, up from $28,000 the year before and the highest level since 2008 — but wedding guests are spending more than ever, as well. Spend 20% of your budget on the engagement party gift, 20% on a gift for a bridal shower or other pre-wedding occasion, and reserve 60% for the wedding gift itself. “Outline your budget ahead of time to see what is doable for you,” says TheKnot.com editor Jamie Miles. 3
I can share that the average amount spent on a wedding gift in 2014 through RegistryFinder.com was $120. If you choose to buy from the couple's wedding registry, we recommend purchasing early, so you have the best selection of gifts and price ranges. We just don't know how much we are expected to spend on a wedding gift. Unfortunately, there's no simple answer and no set amount you should spend (or amount you should give if gifting cash). The amount you spend is dependent upon your budget and relationship with the wedding couple (or their parents).