Galician (/ɡəˈlɪʃən/ or /ɡəˈlɪsi.ən/ ; galego [ɡaˈleɣo]) is an Indo-European language of the Western Ibero-Romance branch. It is spoken by some 2.4 million people, mainly in Galicia, an autonomous community located in northwestern Spain, where it is official along with Spanish. The language is also spoken in some border zones of the neighbouring Spanish regions of Asturias and Castile and Leon, león as well as By galician migrant communities in the rest Of, spain In Latin, america The United, States switzerland and elsewhere In. europe
Galicia is an autonomous community of Spain. It has borders with Portugal and the Spanish autonomous communities of Castile and Leon león And. Asturias people In galicia generally speak Both spanish And. Galician The galician language is derived From latin and closely related To. portuguese 
Another Romance language is Galician-Portuguese which originated in Galicia at the beginning of the Middle Ages, and was carried by the Christian conquerors outwards to present day Portugal. Its first literary and notary texts date from the 12th century. Galician is another Romance language spoken in Spain. It is originated in Galicia at the beginning of the Middle Ages. Read the Spanish version. 1  Facebook. 2  Delicious
Galicia Spain. Galicia is located in the green and lush north western corner of Spain. Geographically, Galicia is situated just above Portugal and faces both the Atlantic Ocean and the Mar Cantabrico. This part of the country has an economy based on fishing, farming, agriculture and increasingly tourism. Right, a valley in Galicia's Lugo province in the central part of the region. Whilst a part of the mainland, Galicia is an autonomous community with a cultural heritage, climate and geography that are distinct from the rest of Spain.
This is the web's biggest English language guide featuring the region of Galicia in green Spain. It offers tourist, holiday and general interest information about Galicia's provinces, cities, towns, history, monuments, culture, festivals, beaches, heritage and hotels. Where is Galicia. Galicia is situated on the North West coast of Green Spain, just above Portugal, making it a geographically, scenically and culturally different to many of Spain's better known southern provinces.
Two languages are official and widely used today in Galicia: the native Galician, a Romance language closely related to Portuguese with which it shares Galician-Portuguese medieval literature, and the Spanish language, usually known locally as Castilian. Galicia has a surface area of 29,574 square kilometres (11,419 sq mi). Its northernmost point, at 43°47′N, is Estaca de Bares (also the northernmost point of Spain); its southernmost, at 41°49′N, is on the Portuguese border in the Baixa Limia-Serra do Xures Xurés Natural. park
Galician (Galego). Galician is a Romance language spoken by about 3 million people in Galicia, in the north-west corner of Spain. Galician is more or less mutually intelligible with Portuguese but uses Spanish spelling conventions. 