34°F - 40°F is the ideal refrigerator temperature range. Some Web sites just say under 40°F, but not so cold to freeze fresh foods. Dairy products and meats keep best at th … e low end of the temperature range. A freezer should be set at 0°F, or lower, if possible. If the temperature gets warmer than +5°F, ice cream will be too soft and won't keep well. A properly working food freezer will operate in the range of -10°F to +2°F, and may go up to around +8°F briefly during the defrost cycle if it is of the frost free type.
The more food you have in your refrigerator, the more stable the temperature will be. Set the thermostat to the middle of its range and leave it for 12 to 24 hours. Adjusting Side-bySide Refrigerator Temp Controls – Knobs. Adjusting Bottom Freezer Refrigerator Temp Controls – Knobs. 
I can understand how important it is to have your refrigerator working properly. The recommend temperature for the refrigerator is 37 degrees. This however is only half of the system. Your freezer should be set at zero degrees to keep the temperature even. I would also recommend that you check the door seal on the refrigerator. If it is not sealing properly, or it there is a gap or tear, it will allow moisture to build inside the unit. Kenmore Elite Refrigerator is changing temperatures at panel. 2 answers. Refrigeration temperatures for the freezer and the nonfreezer sides. 10659069990 Kenmore Side-by-side refrigerator. 2 answers. Related Products. Baygard Electric Fence 1/4-Inch White Rope, ...
A freezer setting is anywhere from -15F to + 15F, Mine is at 10. A refrigerator is anywhere from 33F to 47 F. Mine is at about 38F. When you change the temperature of a freezer or refrigerator, you should wait at least 24 hours for the units to reach the new set temperature. After approximately 8 hours of running time, it goes into defrost. The defrost heater comes on & the temp in the freezer can get up to 40 degrees for a short time. That's why things don't last long in a frost free freezer & why you get that slime on the outer edges of your ice cream.
This Site Might Help You. RE: What temperature should I set my kenmore elite refrigerator? When I turned my new fridge the refrigerator was set at 33 degrees and the freezer was at -3 degrees. From what I have read online it&#39;s about an average answer. Source(s): temperature set kenmore elite refrigerator: https://shortly.im/thm22. Cordelia · 2 months ago.
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
My Kenmore Elite 76572 refrigerator is not cooling properly. I set the freezer and fridge temperatures to 0 deg F and 37 deg F respectively, as recommended but they go back to 12/14 deg F and 50/52 deg F, needless to say it is not making ice. The light, compressor etc. are on. 
For a freezer, the recommended temperature is much lower than that of a refrigerator. Solids freeze at different temperatures than water, so 32 degrees Fahrenheit will not be sufficiently cold. 
The Ideal Temperature. Your Kenmore refrigerator compartment should be set to 37 Fahrenheit or 3 Celsius to ensure your perishable food is kept fresh for the maximum possible time. The refrigerator is set to 37 F when it leaves the factory; once plugged in, the motor takes about 24 hours to reach the set temperature. The freezer should be at 0 Fahrenheit or -18 C.