Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated. In vertebrates, there is a third muscle tissue recognized: 1  Cardiac muscle (myocardium), found only in the heart, is a striated muscle similar in structure to skeletal muscle but not subject to voluntary control.
There are cardiac, smooth, and skeletal. Both cardiac and smooth are involuntary. Skeletal is voluntary. Skeletal muscles are the muscles you use to move your bones. You do th … ese things voluntarily, like raising your arm. Skeletal muscle tires out quickly. Cardiac muscle is only found in your heart. Out of the 3 types of muscles, 2 are involuntary: Smooth and cardiac muscle. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Dance Exercises Dancing can be physically demanding, so you need to condition your body in order to help keep you healthy and less susceptible to getting injured.
Cardiac muscle is a type of muscle tissue that is both striated and  involuntary. Cardiac muscle is found in the heart. Edit. Cardiac Muscle it can be found in the heart it is called Involuntary because its contraction does not require conscious effort. It is also Striated in the same way as skeletal muscle.
1 Cardiac muscle (myocardium), found only in the heart, is a striated muscle similar in structure to skeletal muscle but not subject to voluntary control. In vertebrates, there is a third muscle tissue recognized: 1 
People may condition their striated muscles through exercises. Skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle are types of striated muscle. Skeletal muscles, a type of striated muscle, are voluntary muscles that allow for the movement of bones and joints. Thousands of sarcomeres form striated muscles. View slideshow of images above. A striated muscle is a muscle composed of thousands of units known as sarcomeres. Each sarcomere is composed of distinct bands of different material which give the muscle a striped or striated appearance when it is viewed at a high level of magnification.
Contractions in striated muscles are voluntary, except for the heart muscle, in which contractions are involuntary. Cardiac muscle is often treated separately from the other striated muscles, as it has somewhat different characteristics. A sarcomere is the functional unit of striated muscles. Striated muscle tissue is muscle tissue that has repeating sarcomeres, in contrast with smooth muscle tissue. Specifically, striated muscles are: 1  Pharyngeal muscle (embryologically different from skeletal muscle).
There are two types of striated muscle: skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle. The skeletal muscles are voluntary muscles which allow for the movement of bones and joints, while cardiac muscles are involuntary, and found only in the heart. A striated muscle is a muscle composed of thousands of units known as sarcomeres. Each sarcomere is composed of distinct bands of different material which give the muscle a striped or striated appearance when it is viewed at a high level of magnification.
The microfilaments are arranged so that the fibers appear to have stripes (striations) in them. These are also called voluntary muscles.. Smooth muscle is involuntary, and is not under conscious control; the muscles in your digestive system are smooth muscles. The cells are individual and are found in sheets instead of long fibers. (Cardiac muscle has characteristics of both, but are not referred to in the question). Where skeletal muscle is voluntary, cardiac muscle is autorhythmic (beats involuntarily; generates its own action potentials). 3. Smooth muscle: refers to the muscles that are controlled involuntarily by the brain, like those attached to the base of hair follicles or in the walls of the gastro-intestinal tract. The muscle has a single nucleus in the middle of the cell. Skeletal and cardiac muscle are types of straited muscle