In classical Greek mythology, Perseus beheaded the snake-headed Medusa to save the princess Andromeda from a nasty sea monster. A few drops of Medusa's blood fell into the sea, mixed with the foam, and gave birth to Pegasus, the flying horse, who later played a part in the story of another hero, Bellerophon. One of the brightest and most interesting stars in Perseus is Algol. The name Algol means demon star.. Ancient skywatchers thought it was cursed because its brightness changes. That's because Algol, which is about 75 light-years from Earth, is the most famous eclipsing binary star.
According to the myth, there once was a king named Acrisius, who had a beautiful daughter named Danae. The Oracle of Apollo told Acrisius that there would come a day when Danae 's son would kill him; so he locked Danae in a bronze tower so that she would never marry or have children. Hermes said that they were all siblings as Perseus was in fact the son of Zeus, so they would help him in his quest; so Hermes offered him his winged sandals and the sickle that was used by Cronus to castrate Uranus; while Athena gave him her shield, so that Perseus would not have to look straight into Medusa 's eyes.
Perseus. Perseus (purˈsēəs, –pûrˈsēəs) [ sŏs ], key In greek, mythology son Of zeus And. Danae danaë, His, grandfather acrisius had been warned by an oracle that his grandson would kill him and Therefore put perseus and his mother in a chest and threw it into. The sea it Drifted, to Seriphus Where king polydectes befriended. the two 
Perses, Gorgophone. Perseus (Greek: περσεύς) was a famous hero in Greek mythology. He was the son of Zeus and Danae, making him a demigod, and is known best for having slain the creature Medusa. He is also the grandfather of Heracles.
Perseus was the son of Zeus and Danae, danaë the daughter Of, Acrisius king Of. Argos disappointed by his lack of luck in having a, Son acrisius consulted the oracle At, delphi who warned him that he would one day be killed by his'daughter s son With. zeus Because of the obscurity of the name Perseus and the legendary character of its bearer, most etymologists pass it by, on the presumption that it might be pre-Greek; however, the name of Perseus’ native city was Greek and so were the names of his wife and relatives.
Perseus is the son of Danae and Zeus. He was the slayer of Medusa, and rescuer of Andromeda from the sea dragon. Perseus was a hero in Greek mythology. He was the son of Zeu … s, king of the gods, and the mortal Danae. Upon hearing the oracle's prophecy that his grandson would kill him one day, Acrisius locked his beautiful daughter, Danae, and her infant son, Perseus, in a wooden chest and cast it into the sea. 
Perseus. Perseus was one of the great heroes of classical mythology. He was the son of Jupiter and Danae, and is best known for his killing of the Gorgon Medusa. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Perseus, named after the Greek mythological hero Perseus, is a constellation in the northern sky. It was one of 48 listed by the 2nd-century astronomer Ptolemy, and among the 88 modern constellations defined by the International Astronomical Union (IAU). 
Perseus /per-seus/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Greek origin. Mythology: the son of Zeus and Danae. He killed the Medusa and rescued Andromeda from a sea monster, and later married her. 
Perseus was the son of the mortal Danae danaë and the God. Zeus he was also the great grandfather Of, heracles also a son Of. zeus Because of the obscurity of the name Perseus and the legendary character of its bearer, most etymologists pass it by, on the presumption that it might be pre-Greek; however, the name of Perseus’ native city was Greek and so were the names of his wife and relatives.