Randall Dale Adams (December 17, 1948 – October 30, 2010) was a man who was wrongly convicted of murdering police officer Robert W. Wood and was subsequently sentenced to death. He served more than 12 years in prison and some of that time on death row. His death sentence was reduced through appeal to the United States Supreme Court, and eight years later he was released when evidence was uncovered to prove his innocence. In 1981, Mulder returned to practice private law in Dallas, and the new prosecution then dropped charges in 1989. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals said (and Adams agreed) that conviction was unfair mainly because of prosecutor Doug Mulder.. Adams later worked as an anti-death penalty activist.
After his release from prison in California, and five months after Morris arrived in Dallas, Harris tried to kidnap a young woman named Roxanne Lockard in Beaumont, Texas. In an effort to prevent the abduction, Lockard's boyfriend, Mark Mays, exchanged gunfire with Harris. Mays was shot to death and Harris was wounded. Thus, he said, he was asking Governor Bill Clements to commute Adams's sentence to life in prison. When the governor promptly complied, Wade proclaimed that there now would be no need for a new trial. Adams, of course, thought otherwise, but the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals agreed with Wade.
Filmmaker helped free innocent man. Sentenced to death in 1977 for the murder of a police officer in Dallas, Texas, Randall Dale Adams was exonerated as a result of information uncovered by film-maker Errol Morris and presented in an acclaimed 1988 documentary, The Thin Blue Line. Thus, he said, he was asking Governor Bill Clements to commute Adams's sentence to life in prison. When the governor promptly complied, Wade proclaimed that there now would be no need for a new trial. Adams, of course, thought otherwise, but the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals agreed with Wade.
Adams died Oct. 30, 2010, of a brain tumor, according to his attorney Randy Schaffer, who said he was told by Adams' relatives. Adams had been living quietly in the Ohio city of Washington Court House. His death did not become widely known until Friday, when it was reported by The Dallas Morning News. Adams, who had spent more than 12 years in a Texas prison, was the subject of The Thin Blue Line, directed by noted documentarian Errol Morris. The 1988 film uncovered suppressed evidence and perjured testimony. Randall Dale Adams, a former death row inmate who gained freedom after flaws in his conviction for the murder of a Dallas policeman were exposed in a critically acclaimed documentary, has died. He was 61
Former death row innmate Randall Dale Adams is sitting in an empty Houston sports bar, looking very much alive and well and dragging on a Winston. His face has filled out since his prison days, though his stoic expression remains unchanged: He managed to survive these past 25 years by steeling himself for the worst. The last time most people caught a glimpse of Randall Dale Adams was in 1989, when he walked out of the Dallas County jail a free man, wearing borrowed clothes and a wary smile for the news cameras.
Continue reading the main story. Randall Dale Adams, who spent 12 years in prison before his conviction in the murder of a Dallas police officer was thrown out largely on the basis of evidence uncovered by a filmmaker, died in obscurity in October in Washington Court House, Ohio. He was 61. 
Randall Dale Adams RIP. In May 1979 Randall Dale Adams came within 72 hours of execution. That execution date was stayed on a writ of certiorari to the US Supreme Court and His death sentence was subsequently overturned in June 1980. Instead of a new trial, His sentence was commuted to life by Gov. Clemens at the Dallas DA's request. Randall was released from prison in Texas in 1989 after twelve years in prison in Texas including four years on death row
At age 27, Randall Adams was wrongfully convicted of murdering a police officer, then served 13 years under a death sentence in Texas. Documentary film maker Errol Morris, a former private detective, investigated the case for 3 years, and came to believe the quiet, even-tempered Adams a very unlikely suspect. In Morris' award-winning movie The Thin Blue Line (1988), a former suspect, David Ray Harris, said Randall Adams was innocent. Harris admitted the murder at a hearing for a re-trial, granted as a result of the film. Harris was a juvenile at the time of the murder, and thus ineligible for the death penalty in Texas. Adams was granted a re-trial and found not guilty. David Harris was later executed for an unrelated murder. Since his release, Randall Adams has worked against the death penalty