search. Before the publication of the First Folio in 1623, nineteen of the thirty-seven plays in Shakespeare's canon had appeared in quarto format. With the exception of Othello (1622), all of the quartos were published prior to the date of Shakespeare's retirement from the theatre in about 1611.
Shakespeare was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, in 1564. Very little is known about his life, but by 1592 he was in London working as an actor and a dramatist. Between about 1590 and 1613, Shakespeare wrote at least 37 plays and collaborated on several more. Many of these plays were very successful both at court and in the public playhouses. In 1613, Shakespeare retired from the theatre and returned to Stratford-upon-Avon.
1. The name William Shakespeare appears on the plays and poems. Good evidence that William Shakespeare wrote the plays and poems bearing his name is the fact that his name appears on them as the author. 1a. In 1593, the narrative poem Venus and Adonis was published by Stratford native Richard Field, with a dedication to the Earl of Southampton signed William Shakespeare..
The name William Shakespeare appears on the plays and poems. Good evidence that William Shakespeare wrote the plays and poems bearing his name is the fact that his name appears on them as the author. 1a. In 1593, the narrative poem Venus and Adonis was published by Stratford native Richard Field, with a dedication to the Earl of Southampton signed William Shakespeare..
The first of Shakespeare’s plays to be printed in quarto was Titus Andronicus, in 1594. The earliest quartos were anonymous. Shakespeare’s name did not appear on a title-page until 1598, with Love’s Labour’s Lost. Until recently, scholars have been agreed that Shakespeare took no interest in the printing of his plays.
The Plays of William Shakespeare The plays written by William Shakespeare are listed below by category and alphabetical order. The section relating to the Chronology of Plays provides a list of when plays were written and published.
1 William Shakespeare was an actor in the company that performed the plays of William Shakespeare. 2  William Shakespeare the actor was William Shakespeare of Stratford-upon-Avon. 3  William Shakespeare the Globe-sharer was also