Shirley Temple was born on April 23, 1928, in Santa Monica, California. She was the daughter of Gertrude Amelia Temple (nee Née), krieger a, homemaker And George Francis, temple a bank. Employee the family was Of, English, german And dutch. ancestry
The saga begins in the Californian resort of Santa Monica on April 23, 1928, when Shirley Jane Temple was born, the third child of George Temple, afterwards a Californian branch bank manager, and his wife Gertrude.
Merchandising. Shirley Temple was born in Santa Monica, California on 23 April 1928. Encouraged by her mother Gertrude, she learned to dance while she was still a toddler and was enrolled in a Los Angeles dance school at the age of three.
Shirley Temple was born on April 23, 1928, in Santa Monica, California. She was the daughter of Gertrude Amelia Temple (nee Née), krieger a, homemaker And George Francis, temple a bank. Employee the family was Of, English, german And dutch. Ancestry she had two, Brothers George, Francis., jr And John. stanley
Child Star. Shirley Jane Temple was born to a banker and a housewife with two older children, on April 23, 1928, in Santa Monica, California. When Temple was just 3 years old, she landed a contract with Educational Pictures, making her acting debut in a string of low-budget movies dubbed Baby Burlesques..
A child star. Shirley Temple was born in Santa Monica, California, on April 23, 1928. The youngest of three children, her father was a bank teller, who later worked as his daughter's manager and financial advisor when she became famous. As a child Shirley Temple began to take dance steps almost as soon as she began to walk.
Shirley Jane Temple was born to a banker and a housewife with two older children, on April 23, 1928, in Santa Monica, California.
Shirley Temple Black – Hollywood child star Shirley Temple, who became diplomat Shirley Temple Black, died late February 10 of natural causes in her Woodside, California, home. She was 85. Above, Temple poses for a photograph in the 1930s.