1 Swelling or Edema (due to an influx of fluid into the damaged region). 2  Redness (due to vasodilatation-the widening of blood vessels and bleeding in the joint or structure). 3  Heat (due to an increase in blood flow to the area). 4  Loss of function (due to increased swelling and pain). The inflammatory reaction is normally characterized by 5 distinct signs, each of which is due to a physiological response to tissue injury. 1  Pain (due to chemicals released by damaged cells). 2 
The purpose of inflammation is to eliminate the initial cause of cell injury, clear out necrotic cells and tissues damaged from the original insult and the inflammatory process, and to initiate tissue repair. The classical signs of acute inflammation are pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.
Inflammation is a response to any damage in the body and can be caused by infection, trauma, chemicals, heat or foreign, unrecognised particles (like pollen in hay fever). Inflammation is, above all, a protective response that aims to remove the cause of damage, as well as heal any damage that has already been caused. Inflammation is a completely natural process that is part of the body’s response to any injury that it undergoes. This could be a toxin, a chemical or an infection. Inflammation is designed to wall off the area so that damage cannot spread very far. It then tries to destroy the cause of the damage.
Inflammation is the response of living tissue to damage. The acute inflammatory response has 3 main functions: The cause of acute inflammation may be due to physical damage, chemical substances, micro-organisms or other agents. The inflammatory response consist of changes in blood flow, increased permeability of blood vessels and escape of cells from the blood into the tissues. The changes are essentially the same whatever the cause and wherever the site. Acute inflammation should be short-lasting, only a few days.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Inflammation is a dilation or increase in permeability of capillaries at a wound site. When inflammation occurs clotting factors are delivered, these clotting factors include a collection of proteins and enzymes whose job is to patch a hole. Fibroblasts are also delivered in an inflammatory response which lay down a matrix of connective tissue (they are repair cells, they are what create a scab when you have a cut). The delivery of all of these things causes a buildup of fluid, leading to the inflammation.
The inflammatory response is the body's natural response that occurs immediately following tissue damage. It's main functions are to defend the body against harmful substances, dispose of dead or dying tissue and to promote the renewal of normal tissue. The inflammatory reaction is normally characterized by 5 distinct signs, each of which is due to a physiological response to tissue injury. 1  Pain (due to chemicals released by damaged cells). 2  Swelling or Edema (due to an influx of fluid into the damaged region).
Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.
Here are some key points about inflammation. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Inflammation is the body's attempt at self-protection to remove harmful stimuli and begin the healing process. 2  Inflammation is part of the body's immune response. 
Inflammation (Latin, inflammatio) is part of the complex biological response of body tissues to harmful stimuli, such as pathogens, damaged cells, or irritants. Inflammation is a protective response that involves immune cells, blood vessels, and molecular mediators. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.