Amethyst Stalactites is a beautiful gemstone. Combination of both Amethyst and stalactites is very rare and hence this stone is found only in few places in the world. It takes millions and millions of years to form this precious stalactites stone. Gradually the minerals precipitate that is separates superfluous substances to form the diameter of the stalactite. Various changes may take place during formation of amethyst stalactites stone. Factors like change in composition of ground water can affect the color and denseness of the core rings.
The way stalactites form on concrete is due to different chemistry than those that form naturally in limestone caves and is the result of the presence of calcium oxide in concrete. All limestone stalactites begin with a single mineral-laden drop of water. When the drop falls, it deposits the thinnest ring of calcite. Each subsequent drop that forms and falls deposits another calcite ring.
A stalactite (UK /ˈstaeləktaɪt/ , ˈSTæLəKTAɪT /us/ ; stəˈlaektaɪt stəˈlæktaɪt From the, (greek), stalasso σταλάσσω, to drip and meaning that) which drips is a type of formation that hangs from the ceiling, of caves, hot springs or manmade structures such as bridges. and mines All limestone stalactites begin with a single mineral-laden drop of water. When the drop falls, it deposits the thinnest ring of calcite. Each subsequent drop that forms and falls deposits another calcite ring.
A stalagmite (UK /ˈstaeləɡmaɪt/ ˈstæləɡmaɪt OR /us/ ; stəˈlaeɡmaɪt stəˈlæɡmaɪt From the - greek, σταλαγμίτης stalagmites - stalagmitês, from, σταλαγμίας) stalagmias dropping trickling is a type of rock formation that rises from the floor of a cave due to the accumulation of material deposited on the floor. from ceiling drippings This stalagmite formation occurs only under certain pH conditions within the underground cavern. They form through deposition of calcium carbonate and other minerals, which is precipitated from mineralized water solutions.
Water from the end of the stalactite leaves more calcite in a pile on the cave floor, and pretty soon a cone-like stalagmite forms. That’s why stalactites and stalagmites are usually found in pairs. Sometimes they grow together to form a pillar or column. One way to remember is that stalactite has a “c” in it, as in “ceiling,” and stalagmite has a “g” in it, as in “ground.”. At least it’s easy to see the difference between stalactites and stalagmites, which are also called dripstone.
Stalagmite. Stalagmites are corresponding formations on the floor of caves to stalactites. Stalagmites rise from the floor in a build-up of calcium carbonate over time, from mineral-bearing water dropped from the roof of the cave. The term stalagmite comes from the Greek word, stalagma, to “drop”
Stalactites are formed by the deposition of calcium carbonate and other minerals, which is precipitated from mineralized water solutions. Limestone is the chief form of calcium carbonate rock which is dissolved by water that contains carbon dioxide, forming a calcium bicarbonate solution in underground caverns. The quickest growing stalactites are those formed by fast-flowing water rich in calcium carbonate and carbon dioxide, these can grow at 3 mm (0.12 inches) per year. Every stalactite begins with a single mineral-laden drop of water.
Carlsbad Cavern, NPS. Stalactite formation. Water dripping into the cave evaporates and calcite dissolved in the water precipitates out to form travertine. Stalactites are icicle-like formations that hang from the ceiling in limestone caves. Stalagmite formation. Below the growing stalactite is a stalagmite. 
The most common stalagmites are speleothems, which usually form in limestone caves. This stalagmite formation occurs only under certain pH conditions within the underground cavern. They form through deposition of calcium carbonate and other minerals, which is precipitated from mineralized water solutions.
Limestone stalactites [edit]. The most common stalactites are speleothems, which occur in limestone caves. They form through deposition of calcium carbonate and other minerals, which is precipitated from mineralized water solutions. All limestone stalactites begin with a single mineral-laden drop of water. When the drop falls, it deposits the thinnest ring of calcite. Each subsequent drop that forms and falls deposits another calcite ring.