Over the past fifty years nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, commonly referred to as nmr, has become the preeminent technique for determining the structure of organic compounds. 
detection and measurement of the resonant spectra of molecular species in a tissue or sample. A magnetic resonance technique in which a sample is placed in a strong homogeneous magnetic field and stimulated with radio frequency electromagnetic energy. 
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, most commonly known as NMR spectroscopy, is a research technique that exploits the magnetic properties of certain atomic nuclei. It determines the physical and chemical properties of atoms or the molecules in which they are contained. 
In the case of muscles, NMR is used to measure the intramyocellular lipid content (IMCL). Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) is an analytical technique that can be used to complement the more common Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in the characterization of tissue. (May 2010). In vivo (that is 'in the living organism') magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is a specialised technique associated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) .
Uses of NMR spectroscopy. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is an analytical chemistry technique used in quality control and reserach for determining the content and purity of a sample as well as its molecular structure. For example, NMR can quantitatively analyze mixtures containing known compounds. 
Freebase (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, most commonly known as NMR spectroscopy, is a research technique that exploits the magnetic properties of certain atomic nuclei. It determines the physical and chemical properties of atoms or the molecules in which they are contained
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy can be done as part of a routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on commercially available MRI instruments. The probe accessory necessary to perform MRS was granted 510(k) clearance from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in the evaluation of brain tumors (either primary tumors or brain metastases) is considered investigational/experimental because there is inadequate evidence in the published peer-reviewed clinical literature regarding its effectiveness.
Medical Definition of MAGNETIC RESONANCE SPECTROSCOPY. : a noninvasive technique that is similar to magnetic resonance imaging but uses a stronger field and is used to monitor body chemistry (as in metabolism or blood flow) rather than anatomical structures—abbreviation MRS.
Number: 0202. Aetna considers magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) (also known as NMR spectroscopy) experimental and investigational for the following indications (not an all-inclusive list) because there is a lack of evidence of its efficacy in the medical literature. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in the evaluation of brain tumors (either primary tumors or brain metastases) is considered investigational/experimental because there is inadequate evidence in the published peer-reviewed clinical literature regarding its effectiveness.