The participative leadership style has been one of the fundamental components of leaders for thousands of years. You can even find participative leadership in the Old Testament of the Bible in the book of Nehemiah. Serving as the king’s aide, Nehemiah requested to bring his people back to Jerusalem.
The participative style of leadership is a method of guiding people based on democratic principles of inclusion. She is a leader who focuses on employee input, team concepts and shared decision making.
The final decision ultimately rests on the leader but all considerations and factors of a decision come from the collective mind of the group under this leadership. A famous example of a participative leader is Donald Trump.
Post 6. Participative Leadership is a style, which is or can be utilised by the leader. The leader, who considers the involvement of people beneficial to the business needs, is likely to understand that, under emergency circumstances, the decision process must occur in a much shorter time.
Participative Leadership. Participative leadership is a form of the democratic leadership style. Democratic and participative styles of leadership are among the most effective leadership styles. Of all types of leadership styles, participative leadership may be the best style for developing a cohesive team of employees.
Participative leadership is a style of leadership that involves all members of a team in identifying essential goals and developing procedures or strategies to reach those goals.
4. James Parker. In order to be a participative leader, you must be able to put the needs of the workers above your own needs on a consistent basis. At Southwest Airlines, that’s exactly what Parker has done. A great example of this occurred after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
1 Eisenhower is an unusual example of a military commander who adopted laissez-faire and democratic/participative leadership styles as commander in chief. 2  John F. Kennedy: A charismatic leader at heart, Kennedy displayed characteristics of laissez-faire and democratic leadership styles.