Any child who has not received the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine is susceptible to catching the disease. (Adults born in 1957 or later may also be vulnerable, even if they got the shot as a child. If your child isn't immunized – and he hasn't already had the disease – he has a 90 percent chance of getting infected if he's had contact with someone who has the virus. It usually takes eight to 10 days for a child exposed to the virus to become ill.
Measles is an infectious viral disease that occurs most often in the late winter and spring. It begins with a fever that lasts for a couple of days, followed by a cough, runny nose, and conjunctivitis (pink eye). About 1 in 4 unvaccinated people in the U.S. who get measles will be hospitalized; 1 out of every 1,000 people with measles will develop brain swelling (encephalitis); 1 or 2 out of 1,000 people with measles will die, even with the best care. Top of Page.
Measles can cause serious health complications, such as pneumonia or encephalitis, and even death. Children younger than 5 years of age and adults older than 20 years of age are at high risk of getting a serious case of measles. About 1 in 4 unvaccinated people in the U.S. who get measles will be hospitalized; 1 out of every 1,000 people with measles will develop brain swelling (encephalitis); 1 or 2 out of 1,000 people with measles will die, even with the best care. Top of Page.
Measles is a highly contagious viral disease that is spread through the air by respiratory droplets, or by coming in contact with nasal discharge/mucous of an infected person. Measles is most contagious during the three days before the rash appears. The rash usually begins around the face and neck, and works its way down the body, with increasing lesions often seen on the face and trunk. The rash lasts 3-7 days and fades from the body in the order in which it appeared. 
A person is not contagious during the measles incubation period. A person is mildly contagious when he or she first experiences symptoms, and is most contagious about four days before the onset of the measles rash. Some risk of measles transmission lasts until about four days after the rash starts. Measles Disease.
Measles is contagious one day before fever develops and usually four days before the rash appears. Measles remains contagious until four days after the appearance of the rash. Most people fully recover from measles within two to three weeks. These symptoms last approximately three days. Rubella is contagious one week before and at least four days after the appearance of the rash. About half of the people who get rubella do not have symptoms. Complications are not common, but they occur more often in adults.
In Summary. 1  The measles virus is extremely contagious and often spreads fast in children as they are prone to spending long amounts of time in close proximity with other children in school. 2  With treatment, it takes about seven to 14 days for a child to recover. 1 The measles virus is extremely contagious and often spreads fast in children as they are prone to spending long amounts of time in close proximity with other children in school. 2  It however does not discriminate and even adults can get infected. 3
Measles, Mumps, Rubella and the MMR Vaccine during Pregnancy In every pregnancy, a woman starts out with a 3-5% chance of having a baby with a birth defect. This is called her background risk. 
Measles is not contagious four days after appearance of the rash. As a result of vaccination to prevent measles, all cases that now occur in the United States have been brought from other countries. Measles continues to be a significant public health problem in developing countries, with 30-40 million cases per year. 