(Answer #4). End of slavery in United States of America (USA) was the result of an extended movement of liberal minded people for nearly hundred years. Opposition to slavery in USA began to develop during the American War of Independence in the period 1775-1783
Publisher. A+E Networks. On this day in 1865, the U.S. House of Representatives passes the 13th Amendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery in America.The amendmentread, “Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude…shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.”. 
The abolition of slavery occurred at different times in different countries, and sometimes occurred sequentially in more than one stage: for example, as abolition of the trade in slaves in a specific country, and then as abolition of slavery throughout empires. 
Passed by Congress on January 31, 1865, and ratified on December 6, 1865, the 13th amendment abolished slavery in the United States. The 13th amendment, which formally abolished slavery in the United States, passed the Senate on April 8, 1864, and the House on January 31, 1865. On February 1, 1865, President Abraham Lincoln approved the Joint Resolution of Congress submitting the proposed amendment to the state legislatures. With the adoption of the 13th amendment, the United States found a final constitutional solution to the issue of slavery. The 13th amendment, along with the 14th and 15th, is one of the trio of Civil War amendments that greatly expanded the civil rights of Americans.
With the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution on December 18, 1865. The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in Union-occupied areas of the Confederacy, but it did not free slaves in Union states where slavery was still legal. President Lincoln did not abolish slavery in North America. it was a punishment to the southern States for trying to leave the Union. I personally do not believe slavery was totally abolished in North America. it is not legal but it survives.
Abolition of slavery in the United States. The slave trade was abolished in the United States from 1 January 1808. However, some slaving continued on an illegal basis for the next fifty years. One popular subterfuge was to use whaling ships. The campaign to end slavery itself in the United States was long and bitter. 
Slavery in the United States was the legal institution of human chattel slavery that existed in the United States of America in the 18th and 19th centuries after it gained independence and before the end of the American Civil War. 
13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution: Abolition of Slavery. The House Joint Resolution proposing the 13th amendment to the Constitution, January 31, 1865; Enrolled Acts and Resolutions of Congress, 1789-1999; General Records of the United States Government; Record Group 11; National Archives. 
Slavery was officially abolished in the United States in 1865 (by the enactment of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution), although many states abolished slavery for themselves at various dates between 1777 and 1864 and the transport of new slaves from Africa to the US was stopped as early as 1808. 1 Of cours…. 2  African American Slavery Quotes African American slavery existed in the United States from 1619 to 1965. 3  Slaves were brought in to help farm American crops, and the need for slavery only increased with the 4  …. The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
Slavery In America summary: Slavery in America began in the early 17th Century and continued to be practiced for the next 250 years by the colonies and states. Slaves, mostly from Africa, worked in the production of tobacco crops and later, cotton. 