A GMO (genetically modified organism) is the result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal. The foreign genes may come from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans. It is now possible for plants to be engineered with genes taken from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans. Scientists have worked on some interesting combinations: Spider genes were inserted into goat DNA, in hopes that the goat milk would contain spider web protein for use in bulletproof vests.
The ability to insert just one or a few specific genes into varieties without also introducing many other genes that might negatively affect the quality of crop varieties is often cited as a major benefit of using technology to produce transgenic plants. A transgenic plant is one that contains a gene or genes which have been introduced artificially into the plant's genetic makeup using a set of several biotechnology techniques collectively known as recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology.
Protein Gene:- The gene of interest which codes for a particular protein in inserted in the genome of the corn. Bt genes produce Cry proteins in the corn. Promoter:- Along with the Bt gene, a promoter is also inserted into the corn. The function of the promoter is to control the Cry protein and it also sees that how much protein is produced by the plant. Article Summary: Bt corn is a genetically modified crop. A protein is inserted into the plant's genome which is extracted from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis. This bacterium increases the soil fertility. When insects eat this plant, they get starved and die as a result....
This led agricultural biotechnology companies to try and insert Cry genes directly into the plants, and there are now many varieties on the market, each targeting pests that are a particular problem for a given crop (some varieties of Bt corn, for example, targets the European corn borer). 
To create a Bt crop variety, plant scientists select the gene for a particular Bt toxin and insert it into the cells of corn or cotton plant at the embryo stage. The resulting mature plant has the Bt gene in all its cells and expresses the insecticidal protein in its leaves. 
Well to find out the anwser all you must do is read on... Transgenic crops are simply crops that contain a gene that has been artifically inserted into that crop, instead of being inserted through pollenation. The gene that is inserted into the crop is called a transgene. For example the transgene inserted into corn is called Bacillus Thuringiensis. This transgene is a soil bacterium that produces a protein that is poisonous to insects. There are five main steps in creating transgenic crops: Step 1: Extracting the desired D.N.A. Step 2: Cloning the gene of interest. Step 3: Designing the gene so it can easily be inserted into the plant. Step 4: Transformation.
A bacteria with the name Agrobacterium Tumefasciens has the ability to induce a kind of benign tumor growth in the plant it infects. This it achieves by inserting some genes into the DNA of the plant. In genetic engineering, the gene that is to be inserted is hooked on to the bacterial DNA. Then the recipient cells are exposed to the bacterium, so that they become infected by it. Special techniques are used, that are of no imporance here. 2. A gene is much too small to be inserted with some kind of microsurgery. Therefore some carrier (vector) is required which takes the gene into the recipient cell and somemhow gets it inserted into the DNA of the recipient.
When a gene of interest is inserted in some other organism to see particular traits, it is necessary to insert some additional components also, so that the function of the desired gene can be observed properly. When we talk about the Bt corn, then the gene of interest is inserted in the following way. Article Summary: Bt corn is a genetically modified crop. A protein is inserted into the plant's genome which is extracted from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis. This bacterium increases the soil fertility. When insects eat this plant, they get starved and die as a result....
The Bt gene with the resistance gene attached is inserted into plant cells. At this point, scientists must determine which plant cells have successfully received the Bt gene and are now transformed. Any plant cell that has the Bt gene must also have the resistance gene that was attached to it. The modified plants produce the same lethal Bt protein produced by Bt bacteria because the plants now have the same gene. Research to transfer insect resistance genes from Bt to crop plants is well under way. Corn, cotton, and potatoes are three of the many commercial crops targeted for Bt insect resistance.