Deficiency: A deficiency of this vitamin causes beriberi. Riboflavin (B2): Good sources of vitamin B2 are organ meats, nuts, cheese, eggs, milk and lean meat are great sources of riboflavin, but is also available in good quantities in green leafy vegetables, fish, legumes, whole grains, and yogurt. Vitamin D: There are only a few foods that are good sources of vitamin D. Some vitamin D is obtained from eggs, fatty fish. Fish oils, liver, butter, margarine and milk while human gets most of it from the direct sunlight. It is not found in plant foods.
Foods high in Vitamin B2 are animal liver; mushroom; spinach. Other Vitamin B2 food sources include beans; chicken eggs; dairy products (cheese, milk, yogurt); fish; lean meat; vegetables such as asparagus, broccoli, brussel sprouts, chard, collard greens, mustard greens, romaine lettuce, turnip greens; venison. Vitamin Food Sources. Foods high in Vitamin B12 are animal liver; fish like cod, halibut, herring, mackerel, salmon, snapper, trout. Other Vitamin B12 food sources include dairy products; egg yolk; kidney; meat (beef, lamb, pork, poultry, venison); seafood like clams, scallops and shrimp.
Vitamin B5 deficiency symptoms may include :: numbness and shooting or burning pains in the feet; chronic fatigue; depression or irritability or listlessness; rheumatoid arthritis; headaches; nausea; insomnia; abdominal cramps; increased susceptibility to colds or infections. Vitamin Food Sources. Foods high in Vitamin B12 are animal liver; fish like cod, halibut, herring, mackerel, salmon, snapper, trout. Other Vitamin B12 food sources include dairy products; egg yolk; kidney; meat (beef, lamb, pork, poultry, venison); seafood like clams, scallops and shrimp.
Dietary sources of vitamin A include milk, dairy products such as cheese, butter, yogurt, fish liver oils, eggs, chicken, liver, beef, kidney, fruits like mangoes, peaches, apricots, cantaloupe, winter squash, leafy vegetables, pumpkin, carrots and sweet potatoes. These types of vitamins require regular supply in the form of dietary sources or supplements. These are nontoxic and easily absorbed into the body through the gastrointestinal tract and then disseminated in the tissues.
These are available in various food that are consumed daily. There are two varieties of vitamins, their disparities, functioning; structure, sources and deficiency diseases are mentioned below in this present article. Vitamins; Sources, Functions And Deficiency Diseases Caused By Various Vitamins.
Others function as antioxidants (e.g., vitamin E and sometimes vitamin C). The largest number of vitamins, the B complex vitamins, function as precursors for enzyme cofactors, that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism. As a result, most of the fat-soluble vitamins (such as the vitamins A, D, E, and K) that contain amounts above the daily allowance are drug products. The daily dosage of a vitamin supplement for example cannot exceed 300% of the recommended daily allowance, and for vitamin A, this limit is even lower (200%).
In humans there are 13 vitamins: 4 fat-soluble (A, D, E, and K) and 9 water-soluble (8 B vitamins and vitamin C). Water-soluble vitamins dissolve easily in water and, in general, are readily excreted from the body, to the degree that urinary output is a strong predictor of vitamin consumption. As a result, most of the fat-soluble vitamins (such as the vitamins A, D, E, and K) that contain amounts above the daily allowance are drug products. The daily dosage of a vitamin supplement for example cannot exceed 300% of the recommended daily allowance, and for vitamin A, this limit is even lower (200%).
Vitamin C: All fruits and vegetables contain some amount of vitamin C. Foods that tend to be the highest sources of vitamin C include green peppers, citrus fruits and juices, strawberries, tomatoes, broccoli, turnip greens and other leafy greens, sweet and white potatoes, and cantaloupe. Animal sources are generally poor. Vitamin D: There are only a few foods that are good sources of vitamin D. Some vitamin D is obtained from eggs, fatty fish. Fish oils, liver, butter, margarine and milk while human gets most of it from the direct sunlight. It is not found in plant foods.
Deficiency: Deficiency of vitamin D causes rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults. Vitamin E: The animal origin of this vitamin includes Meats, poultry, eggs while the plant sources are vegetable oils, nuts, olives, tomatoes, papaya, kiwi fruit, blueberries and sunflower seeds. Vitamin D: There are only a few foods that are good sources of vitamin D. Some vitamin D is obtained from eggs, fatty fish. Fish oils, liver, butter, margarine and milk while human gets most of it from the direct sunlight. It is not found in plant foods.
Fat-soluble Vitamins. A, D, E and K vitamins are fat-soluble due to their ability to dissipate in fat. In contrast to water-soluble vitamins, these types of vitamins do not require frequent replenishments. These types of vitamins require regular supply in the form of dietary sources or supplements. These are nontoxic and easily absorbed into the body through the gastrointestinal tract and then disseminated in the tissues.