The Alaskan Malamute Club of America was formed in 1935 and the American Kennel Club recognized the breed that same year. During World War II, most of the registered Alaskan Malamutes were loaned out for war duty because there was a great demand for sled dogs.
Once you have your Alaskan Malamute home, you need to KEEP him healthy -- or if he's having any current health problems, you need to get him back on the road to good health. My dog health care book, 11 Things You Must Do Right To Keep Your Dog Healthy and Happy is the book you need.
To learn more about training Alaskan Malamutes to be calm and well-behaved, consider my dog training book, Teach Your Dog 100 English Words. It's a unique Vocabulary and Respect Training Program that will make your Alaskan Malamute the smartest, most well-behaved companion you've ever had.
Animal-aggression is a major concern. The Alaskan Malamute can be so aggressive with other dogs of the same sex that two males or two females should not be kept together. When this breed fights, the battles can be serious and bloody. Malamutes can be predatory with smaller pets -- I would not keep a Malamute with a cat unless the pair has grown up together.
The Alaskan Malamute features a powerful, sturdy body built for stamina and strength. It reigns as one of the oldest dog breed s whose original looks have not been significantly altered. This intelligent canine needs a job and consistent leadership to avoid becoming bored or challenging to handle.
Comparing the Alaskan Malamute and Siberian Husky. The difference between an Alaskan Malamute and a Siberian Husky is significant but is generally misunderstood. In the early 1970's, while on a business trip in northern Yukon & Alaska I became interested in the Alaskan Malamute Breed.
More traits and characteristics of the Alaskan Malamute. If I was considering an Alaskan Malamute, I would be most concerned about... 1  Providing enough exercise. 2  Alaskan Malamutes MUST have regular opportunities to vent their energy.
The American Kennel Club recognizes the Siberian husky and Alaskan malamute in its working group, but the AKC does not recognize a breed called an Alaskan husky. The fact is, the Alaskan husky is not a breed but is a category of dog, bred for a specific purpose.