Learner Guidance and Portfolio for the QCF qualification: Level 2 and 3 NVQ Diplomas in Construction Plant or Machinery Maintenance (Construction) and Level 4 and 5 NVQ Diplomas in Controlling Lifting Operations (Construction) 42 © SQA 2014 Portfolio A compilation of evidence which can form the basis for assessment.
NCVQ’s NVQ Criteria and Guidance from 1995 states that. ‘At the heart of an NVQ is the concept of occupational competence; the ability to perform to the standards required in employment across a range of circumstances and to meet changing demands. NVQs are first and foremost about what people can do.
The NVQ is not a general qualification, it is a particular type that operates in a specific context – the workplace – and relies upon specific provisions and requirements unique to a competency based qualification. In 1993 NCVQ developed and published the Awarding Bodies Common Accord.
They are usually studied part-time and can be taken as a stand-alone qualification, or as part of an Apprenticeship. NVQs and competence-based qualifications offer proof that you can do a job to the required standard. They are offered at different levels, ranging from 1 to 7 depending on the sector. This means you can study at the level that’s right for your job role and level of experience, and progress accordingly.
National vocational qualifications (NVQs) are work-related, competence-based qualifications. They reflect the skills and knowledge needed to do a job effectively, and show that a candidate is competent in the area of work the NVQ framework represents. NVQs are based on national occupational standards.
NVQs are not just qualifications-NVQs are a system of learning and accreditation as well, which is itself open to a variety of interpretations. Appropriate support is critical for learners who are not immediately attracted to the style of the NVQ structure and methodology.
The AQF is the national policy for regulated qualifications in Australian education and training. It incorporates the qualifications from each education and training sector into a single comprehensive national qualifications framework.
NVQs in the UK are now progressively being replaced with QCF (Qualifications and Credit Framework) awards, certificates and diplomas. As at 2010 this transition is in progress. Some awards persist in NVQ format while others have changed to their new formats.
Access to the Level 2 and 3 NVQ Diplomas in Construction Plant or Machinery Maintenance (Construction) and Level 4 and 5 NVQ Diplomas in Controlling Lifting Operations (Construction) are open to all and you can be assessed either against particular Unit(s) or against the full qualification.