arugula, Health Benefits. Also known as Salad Rocket, which is a fitting name for this zippy leafy green, Arugula is a delicious early summer vegetable from the brassicaceae family. Like others in this vegetable family (such as kale, cabbage, cauliflower and mustard greens), Arugula has no shortage of healing qualitie
Arugula nutrition facts. Arugula, also known as salad or garden rocket, is one of the nutritious green-leafy vegetable of Mediterranean origin. It is a small, low growing annual herb featuring dandelion like succulent, elongated, lobular leaves with green-veins.
Directions. In a serving bowl, drizzle the arugula with the oil, squeeze in the lemon juice, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Toss until well mixed and taste for seasoning. Use a vegetable peeler to shave thin pieces of Parmigiano over the top
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Arugula (Eruca vesicaria sativa) is a leafy green herb of the mustard family. Known also as rocket, Italian cress, roquette, and rucola, it has elongated dark green leaves that are lobed like the leaves of an oak. In the ground, the plant resembles a loose lettuce with long, slender leaves. Arugula is popular in the Mediterranean region, where it's often used as a pizza topping. Peppery arugula is a good addition to a main dish salad that contains other fresh greens and grilled chicken.
1 In a large plastic bowl with a lid, combine arugula, cherry tomatoes, pine nuts, oil, vinegar, and Parmesan cheese. 2  Season with salt and pepper to taste. 3  Cover, and shake to mix. 4  Divide salad onto plates, and top with slices of avocado. Ready In. 1 
Eruca sativa (syn. E. vesicaria subsp. sativa (Miller) Thell., Brassica eruca L.) is an edible annual plant, commonly known as salad rocket, rucola, rucoli, rugula, colewort, roquette and, in the United States, arugula. 
Summary. Arugula is a leafy green vegetable that’s loaded with nutritional benefits for nearly every area of the body, from the brain to the liver, as well as the skin and blood vessels. A zesty addition to any salad, it’s also great in other recipes, such as pizza, pesto, and soup. Other sources: 1  http://www.care2 ....
Arugula is a common addition to tossed salads. Arugula is popular in the Mediterranean region, where it's often used as a pizza topping. Peppery arugula is a good addition to a main dish salad that contains other fresh greens and grilled chicken.