A new study of Tiktaalik roseae (middle), a 375-million-year-old transitional fossil, highlights an intermediate step between the condition in fish like Eusthenopteron (bottom) and that in early limbed forms like Acanthostega (top). We used to think of this transition of the neck and skull as a rapid event, said study author Neil Shubin, PhD, of the University of Chicago and Field Museum and co leader of the project, largely because we lacked information about the intermediate animals. Tiktaalik neatly fills this morphological gap.
In that case, the fish, a predator up to nine feet long, was a predecessor of amphibians, reptiles and dinosaurs, mammals and eventually humans. The fossil species was named Tiktaalik roseae, nicknamed “fishapod” for its fishlike features combined with limbs similar to those of tetrapods, four-legged land animals. One of the most intriguing findings, scientists said, was the reduction in size of a bony element that, in fish, links the braincase, palate and gills and is associated with underwater feeding and respiration. In more primitive fish, the bony part of what is called the hyomandibula is large and shaped like a boomerang.
Tiktaalik has a flat head and a neck like tetrapods but fins and scales like fish. Tiktaalik 's head and body are flat with eyes on the top of its skull, more like a crocodile than most fish. Its shoulders are not connected to its skull, giving it a functional neck, a feature which fish lack. And it has ribs like some of the earliest tetrapods which were used to support the body and aid in living and breathing on land. These features in Tiktaalik show that many of the body features we associate with the earliest tetrapods actually evolved in fish first.
Newly exposed parts of Tiktaalik roseae --the intermediate fossil between fish and the first animals to walk out of water onto land 375 million years ago--are revealing how this major evolutionary event happened. First described in 2006, and quickly dubbed the fishapod, it had fish-like features such as a primitive jaw, fins and scales, as well as a skull, neck, ribs and parts of the limbs that are similar to tetrapods, four-legged animals.
Tiktaalik shares anatomical features with both primitive fish and the first tetrapods. At first glance, it has features we readily associate with fish: fins, scales, and gills. But it also has a number of key features that differentiate it from its fishy contemporaries and make it very interesting to scientists. And it has ribs like some of the earliest tetrapods which were used to support the body and aid in living and breathing on land. These features in Tiktaalik show that many of the body features we associate with the earliest tetrapods actually evolved in fish first.
A reconstruction of Tiktaalik alongside a cast of its fossil, and a map showing where the fossil was found, on Ellesmere Island, Nunavut, Canada. In many news articles, Tiktaalik was billed as the missing link between fish and land vertebrates  but that description is a bit misleading. First, Tiktaalik is more accurately described as a transitional form than a missing link. Transitional forms help show the evolutionary steps leading from one lineage to another by displaying characteristics of both the ancestral and the new lineage. 
The mixture of both fish and tetrapod characteristics found in Tiktaalik include these traits: 1  Fish. 2  fish gills. 3  fish scales.  4 Fishapod. 5  half-fish, half-tetrapod limb bones and joints, including a functional wrist joint and radiating, fish-like fins instead of toes. 6  half-fish, half-tetrapod ear region. 7  Tetrapod. 8  tetrapod rib bones. Description Edit. restoration of Tiktaalik roseae. Tiktaalik represents an intermediate form between fish and amphibians. Unlike many previous, more fishlike transitional fossils, Tiktaalik' s 'fins' have basic wrist bones and simple fingers, showing that they were weight bearing.
The name Tiktaalik is an Inuktitut word meaning  burbot , a freshwater fish related to true cod. The fishapod genus received this name after a suggestion by Inuit elders of Canada 's Nunavut Territory, where the fossil was discovered. Description Edit. restoration of Tiktaalik roseae. Tiktaalik represents an intermediate form between fish and amphibians. Unlike many previous, more fishlike transitional fossils, Tiktaalik' s 'fins' have basic wrist bones and simple fingers, showing that they were weight bearing.