The mass increments of weight for a pound is measured in ounces. There are sixteen ounces to a pound. If you were to look at the mass increments of a ton weight it would be me … asured by pounds. 'Weight' is a force due to gravity and, therefore, is  measured in newtons in SI. Weight is measured using a spring  balance, calibrated in newtons.
1 Weight is a measure of how strongly gravity pulls downwards. 2  Apparent Weight is a measure of downwards force. 3  Force is measured in Newtons, not kilograms or pounds. 4  When scales show kg or lb it is just an estimate of the mass above them. 
In the metric system mass is measured in kilograms and grams and these will be the units we will most often use. (In the United States today, almost no one knows what the unit of mass is called--it's not the pound. The pound is a unit of weight--more about weight in the next paragraph. You will measure the mass of objects by comparing them to the mass of pennies with a thing we will call a Mass Balance. Although mass is usually measured in kilograms or grams, we will measure mass in pennies.
There the weight is a measure of the magnitude of the reaction force exerted on a body. Typically, in measuring an object's weight, the object is placed on scales at rest with respect to the earth, but the definition can be extended to other states of motion. Thus, in a state of free fall, the weight would be zero. In this second sense of weight, terrestrial objects can be weightless.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. The difference between mass and weight is that mass is the amount of matter in a material and weight is a measure of how the force of gravity acts upon that mass. Mass is the measure of the amount of matter in a body. Mass is denoted using m or M. Weight is the measure of the amount of force acting on a mass due to the acceleration due to gravity. Weight usually is denoted by W. Weight is mass multiplied by the acceleration of gravity. W = m * g. 
'Weight' is a force due to gravity and, therefore, is  measured in newtons in SI. Weight is measured using a spring  balance, calibrated in newtons. Because weight is affected by  gravity, an object of given mass will have a different weight,  according to where it is measured.     'Mass', on the other hand, is measured in kilograms in SI. Mass is  measured by comparing an object of unknown mass with a known mass,  using a scales balance. A kilogram is 2.2 lbs, so it is more useful for everyday objects. Things such as … people, furniture, cars, etc. could be measured in kilograms while objects like paper, small amounts of gold, or mail could be measured in grams. 1 kilogram is equal to 1000 grams.
Weight is measured with different types of balances; in the SI  system the unit is kilogram (also used multiples).      Answer     Unfortunately, the origi … nal answer is incorrect.     'Weight' is a force due to gravity and, therefore, is  measured in newtons in SI. Weight is measured using a spring  balance, calibrated in newtons. Because weight is affected by  gravity, an object of given mass will have a different weight,  according to where it is measured.     'Mass', on the other hand, is measured in kilograms in SI.
Body weight is measured in kilograms, a measure of mass, throughout the world, although in some countries such as the United States it is measured in pounds, or as in the United Kingdom, stones and pounds. 
Report Abuse. In the metric system weight is properly measured in Newtons, but most people improperly use Kilograms, which is really a measure of mass, not weight. On Earth one kilogram weighs 9.8 Newtons. In the English system, weight is measured in pounds. The English unit of mass is a slug, but most people who have not studied physics have never heard of a slug. On Earth one slug weight 32 pounds. Newtons is the standard SI unit of measure though. Edit: when i say acceleration, i mean acceleration due to gravity. Weight *is* a unit of force. hoarp001: Weight is a unit of force, all the units you put there are units of mass, not weight. zeno : From other experiments, we know that g, or acceleration by free fall is actually an acceleration of 9.8N at sea level G is acceleration due to gravity