The thermistor. Thermistors are used as temperature sensors, for example, in fire alarms. Their resistance decreases as the temperature increases: Thermistor symbol. 1  At low temperatures, the resistance of a thermistor is high, and little current can flow through them. 
Thermistors differ from resistance temperature detectors (RTDs) in that the material used in a thermistor is generally a ceramic or polymer, while RTDs use pure metals. A thermistor is a type of resistor whose resistance is dependent on temperature, more so than in standard resistors. The word is a portmanteau of thermal and resistor. Thermistors are widely used as inrush current limiter, temperature sensors (NTC type typically), self-resetting overcurrent protectors, and self-regulating heating element
the temperature increases, the resistance decreases -hence a negative temperature coefficient (NTC) thermistor. (But there are also positive temperature coefficient (PTC) thermistors.) Connect an NTC thermistor and an ordinary resistor in series. Put a voltage across the combination. 
A thermistor is a type of resistor specifically designed to have a predictable change in resistance depending on the temperature surrounding it. All resistors and, in fact the resistance of all components are succeptable to changes in temperature. A thermistor changes it's resistance depending on temperature. Hence Thermal-Resistor. (Thermistor) It is all to do with the crystal structure of the substance the thermisto … r is made of. Some increase their resistance as temperature rises, called Positive Thermal coefficient, 'PTC'.
A thermistor is a resistance thermometer, or a resistor whose resistance is dependent on temperature. The term is a combination of thermal and resistor. It is made of metallic oxides, pressed into a bead, disk, or cylindrical shape and then encapsulated with an impermeable material such as epoxy or glass. There are two types of thermistors: Negative Temperature Coefficient (NTC) and Positive Temperature Coefficient (PTC). With an NTC thermistor, when the temperature increases, resistance decreases. Conversely, when temperature decreases, resistance increases. This type of thermistor is used the most
NTC and PTC Thermistors. The resistance of a negative temperature coefficient thermistor, which is the most common type of thermistor, goes down as the temperature rises; that of a positive temperature coefficient thermistor goes up with rising temperature.
As circuit components whose resistance varies with temperature, thermistors have a broad range of applications in the electronics industry. All materials have resistance, and to some degree, that resistance varies with temperature for all materials. In a conductor or conventional resistor, this variation is negligible, but in a thermistor, a single degree change in temperature can produce a resistance change of 100 ohms or more. The resistance of a negative temperature coefficient thermistor, which is the most common type of thermistor, goes down as the temperature rises; that of a positive temperature coefficient thermistor goes up with rising temperature.
Thermistors are semiconductor devices that are used to measure temperature. The name comes from a combination of the words resistor and thermal. Thermistors have an electrical resistance that is proportional to temperature. From a general physics course on electricity and magnetism, you may have learned that this is a property typical for all conductors. Thermistors are temperature sensors that have a resistance proportional to their temperature. This property makes them useful for functioning as safety devices in circuits or as probes that physicians can use during surgery.