Copyright information: The maps on this page were composed by Brad Cole of Geology.com. If you want to share these maps with others please link to this page. These maps are property of Geology.com and may not be used beyond our websites. They were created using data licensed from and copyright by Map Resources. 
Farm for Sale on the Oregon Slope - 156 acres $977,000. 375 Juniper Road, Ontario OR 97914. Directions: NW of Ontario on I-84, take Exit 375 onto 201 N, go three miles to Hyline Road, north on Hyline to Juniper Road, farm is on the corner of Hyline and Juniper. Asking price: $977,000
Alfalfa is an unincorporated community in Deschutes County, Oregon, United States, in the high desert 16 miles (26 km) east of Bend. Alfalfa was named for the primary forage crop grown there under irrigation. Alfalfa had a post office from 1912 until 1922. The ranching community has a population of about 400 families.
Disclaimer. Our products are for informational purposes only and may not have been prepared for legal, engineering or surveying purposes. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information. 
The elevation is 3,369 feet. Alfalfa appears on the Alfalfa U.S. Geological Survey Map. Deschutes County is in the Pacific Time Zone (UTC -8 hours). Deschutes County: Cities & Towns | ZIP Codes | Schools | Features (airports, churches, hospitals, etc. 
The Cream Valley farm listed under Portland is actually located in Oregon City on Maple Lane Road. They still offer raw milk and kefir grains. About $10 per 1/2 gallon in glass jars, which you can then wash, return, and pick up again weekly. 
The ODOT GIS Unit also provides some additional city-scale maps, the areas and names of which correspond to various USGS quadrangle maps. The quadrangles consist of Portland Metro, Salem\Keizer and Eugene\Springfield. These quadrangle maps tile over large areas extending well beyond city boundaries. The quadrangle maps have not been updated since 2007. This series is currently being converted from CAD to GIS
The Alfalfa Fire District is taking applications for a part-time fire chief. Open until position filled. To view and/or print the job description and employment agreement, click on the following links: Fire Chief Job Description (pdf) (please ignore due date on description). The Alfalfa Fire District Board of Directors holds its regular monthly meetings on the second Wednesday evening at 6:00 pm at the Alfalfa Community Hall, 26155 Willard Rd., Alfalfa, OR.
Because EMS services are currently provided to the Alfalfa area by the City of Bend, the AFD Board is focusing on initially providing fire-fighting services. But, because the call volume for EMS is much higher than for fire-fighting (approx.. The Alfalfa Fire District Board of Directors holds its regular monthly meetings on the second Wednesday evening at 6:00 pm at the Alfalfa Community Hall, 26155 Willard Rd., Alfalfa, OR.
View all the taxlots in the State of Oregon and download PDF copies of the assessors maps. 