Watson and Crick used stick-and-ball models to test their ideas on the possible structure of DNA. Other scientists used experimental methods instead. Among them were Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins, who were using X-ray diffraction to understand the physical structure of the DNA molecule. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside and the four different bases are on the inside of the DNA molecule. The two strands of the double helix are anti-parallel, which means that they run in opposite directions. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside of the helix, and the bases are on the inside.
In 1962, Crick was awarded a Nobel Prize for discovering the structure of DNA, along with fellow scientists James Watson and Maurice Wilkins. Several people posted comments about our story that noted one name was missing from the Nobel roster: Rosalind Franklin, a British biophysicist who also studied DNA. 
On this day in 1953, Cambridge University scientists James D. Watson and Frances H.C. Crick announce that they have determined the double-helix structure of DNA, the molecule containing human genes. The discovery of DNA by James Watson and Frances Crick being a major one for the scientific community. Not only was DNA discovered on this day, but the Republican Party was founded in Wisconsin.
Many people believe that American biologist James Watson and English physicist Francis Crick discovered DNA in the 1950s. In reality, this is not the case. Rather, DNA was first identified in the late 1860s by Swiss chemist Friedrich Miescher. In fact, Watson and Crick were worried that they would be scooped by Pauling, who proposed a different model for the three-dimensional structure of DNA just months before they did. In the end, however, Pauling's prediction was incorrect
two forms of DNA: Franklin discovered that DNA comes in two forms, which she labeled A and B.. James Watson: Co-discoverer, with Francis Crick, of the structure of DNA. Maurice Wilkins: A physicist at King's College London who was Franklin's immediate boss when she worked there. 
Though DNA–short for deoxyribonucleic acid–was discovered in 1869, its crucial role in determining genetic inheritance wasn’t demonstrated until 1943. In the early 1950s, Watson and Crick were only two of many scientists working on figuring out the structure of DNA. The discovery of DNA by James Watson and Frances Crick being a major one for the scientific community. Not only was DNA discovered on this day, but the Republican Party was founded in Wisconsin.
Chargaff's realization that A = T and C = G, combined with some crucially important X-ray crystallography work by English researchers Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins, contributed to Watson and Crick's derivation of the three-dimensional, double-helical model for the structure of DNA. In fact, Watson and Crick were worried that they would be scooped by Pauling, who proposed a different model for the three-dimensional structure of DNA just months before they did. In the end, however, Pauling's prediction was incorrect
Instead, it was Franklin's famous photograph 51 that finally revealed the helical structure of DNA to Watson and Crick in 1953. This picture of DNA that had been crystallized under moist conditions shows a fuzzy X in the middle of the molecule, a pattern indicating a helical structure. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside and the four different bases are on the inside of the DNA molecule. The two strands of the double helix are anti-parallel, which means that they run in opposite directions. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside of the helix, and the bases are on the inside.
First isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869 and with its molecular structure first identified by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953, DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses