Some ticks carry diseases, which can be passed on when they bite. Tick-borne diseases can cause a variety of symptoms, and usually develop within the first few weeks after a tick bite. Potential symptoms of tick-borne diseases include: 1  red spot or rash near the bite site. 2  neck stiffness. 3  headache or nausea. 4  weakness. 5  muscle or joint pain or achiness. 6  fever or chills. 7  swollen lymph nodes. 
Early Signs and Symptoms (3 to 30 days after tick bite). 1  Fever, chills, headache, fatigue, muscle and joint aches, and swollen lymph nodes. 2  Erythema migrans (EM) rash: 3  Occurs in approximately 70 to 80 percent of infected persons. 4  Begins at the site of a tick bite after a delay of 3 to 30 days (average is about 7 days). 1 Fever and other general symptoms may occur in the absence of rash. 2  A small bump or redness at the site of a tick bite that occurs immediately and resembles a mosquito bite, is common. 3  This irritation generally goes away in 1-2 days and is not a sign of Lyme disease.
Some immediate symptoms that infrequently or rarely develop during or immediately after a tick bite may be fever, shortness of breath, weakness, vomiting, swelling, weakness or paralysis, headache, confusion, or palpitations. Individuals with these symptoms should be seen immediately by a doctor. A few individuals may be sensitive or allergic to tick bites (tick saliva secretions) and develop rash, shortness of breath, swelling, numbness, or paralysis. However, the majority of individuals with tick bites develop no symptoms, and many people do not remember getting bitten.
1 You have symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. 2  These may include: 3  Sudden raised, red areas (hives) all over your body. 4  Swelling of the throat, mouth, lips, or tongue. 5  Trouble breathing. 6  Passing out (losing consciousness). 7  Or you may feel very lightheaded or suddenly feel weak, confused, or restless. For example, call if: 1  You have symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. 2  Sudden raised, red areas (hives) all over your body. 3  Swelling of the throat, mouth, lips, or tongue. 4  Trouble breathing. 5
For example, call if: 1  You have symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. 2  These may include: 3  Sudden raised, red areas (hives) all over your body. 4  Swelling of the throat, mouth, lips, or tongue. 5  Trouble breathing. 6  Passing out (losing consciousness). 7  Or you may feel very lightheaded or suddenly feel weak, confused, or restless. For example, call if: 1  You have symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. 2  Sudden raised, red areas (hives) all over your body. 3  Swelling of the throat, mouth, lips, or tongue. 4  Trouble breathing. 5
This reaction may be mild, with a few annoying symptoms. In rare cases, a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) may occur. Many of the diseases ticks carry cause flu-like symptoms, such as fever, headache, nausea, vomiting, and muscle aches. Symptoms may begin from 1 day to 3 weeks after the tick bite. Sometimes a rash or sore appears along with the flu-like symptoms. Common tick-borne diseases include: 1  Lyme disease. 2  Rocky Mountain spotted fever. 3  Tularemia. 4  Ehrlichiosis. 5  Relapsing fever. 6  Colorado tick fever.
A small, red bump often appears at the site of a tick bite or tick removal and resolves over a few days. This is normal after a tick bite and does not indicate Lyme disease. However, these signs and symptoms may occur within a month after you've been infected: Rash. From 3 to 30 days after an infected tick bite, an expanding red area might appear that sometimes clears in the center, forming a bull’s-eye pattern. 
1 Rash: Lyme disease, southern tick-associated rash illness (STARI) , Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) , ehrlichiosis, and tularemia can result in distinctive rashes: 2  In Lyme disease, the rash may appear within 3-30 days, typically before the onset of fever. The most common symptoms of tick-related illnesses are: 1  Fever/chills: With all tickborne diseases, patients can experience fever at varying degrees and time of onset. 2  Aches and pains: Tickborne disease symptoms include headache, fatigue, and muscle aches. 3  With Lyme disease you may also experience joint pain.
Later, the bite site may develop itching, burning, redness, and rarely, localized intense pain (some soft tick bites) in some individuals. A few individuals may be sensitive or allergic to tick bites (tick saliva secretions) and develop rash, shortness of breath, swelling, numbness, or paralysis. However, the majority of individuals with tick bites develop no symptoms, and many people do not remember getting bitten.