To decant for sediment, slowly pour the wine from its bottle into a clean glass carafe, taking care to stop pouring when the first grains of sediment enter the neck of the bottle. Work in a good light. Decanting for Sediment. Older, high quality red wines need decanting because they throw sediment. The sediment is made of spent yeast cells left from the fermentation process, plus some of the chemical compounds that give red wine its color.
1 Reasons for decanting The most obvious reason for decanting a wine is to separate it from any sediment that has formed in the bottle which not only looks unappetizing in the glass, but usually tastes bitter and/or astringent. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1 
The term 'decant' is usually associated with wine. Decanting is also a chemical laboratory process used to separate mixtures. Answer: Decanting is a process to separate mixtures. Decanting is just allowing a mixture of solid and liquid or two immiscible liquids to settle and separate by gravity. This process can be slow and tedious without the aid of a centrifuge. Some mixtures that can be decanted: 1  Oil and water-oil floats on top of water. 2  Decanting the mixture allows the oil to be poured off the water. 3  Gasoline or kerosene and water-this mixture is an example often cited as a safety hazard.
Full Definition of DECANT. transitive verb. 1. : to draw off (a liquid) without disturbing the sediment or the lower liquid layers. 2. : to pour from one vessel into another. 3. : to pour out, transfer, or unload as if by pouring. 
An example of decanter. Decantation is a process for the separation of mixtures, by removing a layer of liquid, generally one from which a precipitate has settled. The purpose may be either to produce a clean decant, or to remove undesired liquid from the precipitate (or other layers)
Decanting is the method in which a player combines partially full potions of the same kind to produce one full potion and one partially empty potion. For example, decanting a potion containing 3 doses and another containing 2 doses yields one full potion (4 doses) and one partially full potion (1 dose). 
A decanter is a vessel that is used to hold the decantation of a liquid (such as wine) which may contain sediment. Decanters are normally used as serving vessels for wine. Liquid from another vessel is poured into the decanter in order to separate a small volume of liquid, containing the sediment, from a larger volume of clear liquid, which is free of such. In the process, the sediment is left in the original vessel, and the clear liquid is transferred to the decanter.
How to decant. Decanting a young wine (one with no sediment) is easy: Just pour it into the decanter. Let it sit for twenty minutes or so before you serve it, and you'll likely notice a dramatic increase in subtlety and complexity. If you have the luxury of time, continue tasting the wine over a period of hours. What is decanting? Simply put, it means transferring (decanting) the contents of a wine bottle into another receptacle (the decanter) before serving. It may sound silly (how can pouring wine from one vessel into another make it taste better?), but it works.
Decantation Definition: Decantation is a process to separate mixtures. Decanting is done to separate particulates from a liquid by allowing the solids to settle to the bottom of the mixture and pouring off the particle-free part of the liquid. 