Bergamot Essential Oil. Bergamot Essential Oil is one of my favorite citrus oils to enjoy in the diffuser and to mindfully use in topical applications. The aroma of Bergamot Essential Oil is reminiscent to that of orange, but it is wonderfully more complex. It almost seems to possess an underlying floral characteristic to it. Drinkers of Early Gray tea are especially familiar with the flavor and aroma of bergamot as the oil is used to flavor the tea. Bergamot Essential Oil may be helpful in use during periods of depression, sadness or grief, and it is known for its ability to help combat oily skin and acne.
Photo Source. Bergamot oil (Citrus bergamia) is one of my very favorite essential oils. The oil is extracted from the rind or peel of the fruit, leaving an aroma is citrusy but sweet, and has a depth to it that I really love. Popular Uses of Bergamot Essential Oil. 1  Diffuse in the classroom, at work, or at home when stress levels or tension is high. 2  Apply to the skin while showering and inhale deeply to experience its calming aroma while enjoying its purifying skin benefits. 3  Change regular tea to Earl Grey with the addition of Bergamot
Other Benefits: Bergamot essential oil is also a tonic, meaning that it tones up the respiratory, circulatory, digestive, excretory, and nervous system, as well as skin and muscles. It is also anticongestive and is used in vaporizers to relieve congestion and respiratory problems, particularly during coughs and colds. Cicatrisant: This property of bergamot oil is the reason behind its extensive use in cosmetics and skin care products such as beauty soaps, creams, and lotions. Cicatrisant means a property or an agent which helps scars and other marks on the skin to disappear.
Uses. Bergamot oil can be used in the treatment of depression, stress, tension, fear, hysteria, infection (all types including skin), anorexia, psoriasis, eczema and general convalescence. Bergamot oil can cause burns when used on a sensitive skin which is then exposed to sunlight, as the high content of bergaptene can cause photo-toxicity. It is advisable to keep out of the sun if this oil is used on the skin.
Bergamot oil is cold-pressed from the peel while the fruit is green in color and nearly ripe. It has a fresh sweet citrusy aroma, with a floral undertone, setting it apart from other citrus oils. It has been used in classic perfumes and enjoyed in popular teas (such as Earl Grey). Bergamot can delight the senses. 
The health benefits of Bergamot Essential Oil can be attributed to its properties as a deodorant, vulnerary, vermifuge, antibiotic, antiseptic, antispasmodic, sedative, analgesic, antidepressant, disinfectant, febrifuge, cicatrisant, and digestive substance. Cicatrisant: This property of bergamot oil is the reason behind its extensive use in cosmetics and skin care products such as beauty soaps, creams, and lotions. Cicatrisant means a property or an agent which helps scars and other marks on the skin to disappear.
Bergamot is a plant that produces a type of citrus fruit. Oil taken from the peel of the fruit is used to make medicine. Some people treat a skin condition called psoriasis by applying bergamot oil directly to the skin and then shining long-wave ultraviolet (UV) light on the affected area. Bergamot oil is also applied to the skin (used topically) for a tumor caused by a fungal infection (mycosis fungoides) and for pigment loss (vitiligo).
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Bergamot is an aromatic oil found in the peels of the fruit of the bergamot orange, a citrus tree from Italy. The oil is used in essential oil preparations, skin care products, and as a food flavoring, most notably in Earl Gray tea. 