A primary function of the leaf’s waxy cuticle is to reduce water loss through the leaves, which is particularly important in arid deserts with little rainfall or Mediterranean climates with seasonal rainfall. The cuticle also works with the stomata to help complete photosynthesis. After the stomata open and carbon dioxide enters the leaf, the cuticle protects the mesophyll layer, which contains the photosynthetic cells that receive and process the carbon dioxide to manufacture glucose.
The purpose of the waxy outer layer of a leaf, which is called a  cuticle, is to keep the leaf from losing water inside the leaf.  Plants that live in the water do not have … this problem, so they  have no cuticle. The cuticle is a waxy covering on the leaves of plants. It is produced by the upper epidermis, which is like the skin of a leaf. Its function is to protect the leaf from wate … r loss through evaporation. Hope this helps!
The cuticle is a multi-layer structure composed primarily of cutin, cutan, polysaccharides, lipids and waxes. On the inward-facing side of a leaf, the cuticle attaches to the epidermal plant cell walls, and on the outward-facing side, the cuticle forms a film or skin that covers the leaf surface. The cuticle also works with the stomata to help complete photosynthesis. After the stomata open and carbon dioxide enters the leaf, the cuticle protects the mesophyll layer, which contains the photosynthetic cells that receive and process the carbon dioxide to manufacture glucose.
In botany, plant cuticles are protective, hydrophobic, waxy coverings produced by the epidermal cells of leaves, young shoots and all other aerial plant organs. Cuticles minimize water loss and effectively reduce pathogen entry due to their waxy secretion. A cuticle /ˈkjuːtɪkəl/ , or cuticula, is a term used for any of a variety of tough but flexible, non-mineral outer coverings of an organism, or parts of an organism, that provide protection. Various types of cuticle are non-homologous, differing in their origin, structure, function, and chemical composition.
The purpose of the waxy outer layer of a leaf, which is called a  cuticle, is to keep the leaf from losing water inside the leaf.  Plants that live in the water do not have … this problem, so they  have no cuticle. 1 person found this useful. The cuticle is a waxy covering on the leaves of plants. It is produced by the upper epidermis, which is like the skin of a leaf. Its function is to protect the leaf from wate … r loss through evaporation. Hope this helps! 5 people found this useful.
A plant cuticle is a protecting film covering the epidermis of leaves, young shoots and other aerial plant organs without periderm. It consists of lipid and hydrocarbon polymers impregnated with wax, and is synthesized exclusively by the epidermal cells. The plant cuticle is a layer of lipid polymer impregnated with waxes that is present on the outer surfaces of the primary organs of all vascular land plants.
Report Abuse. In botany, plant cuticles are protective waxy coverings produced by the epidermal cells of leaves, young shoots and all other aerial plant organs. Cuticles minimize water loss and effectively reduce pathogen entry due to their waxy secretion. 