Do not span lath and batten more than 2 feet apart. You can span 1-bys up to 3 feet apart, but 2 feet is better; with 1-by-2-inch stock laid on edge—or with 2 by 2s—you can span 4 feet without objectionable sagging, but the boards may warp or curve a bit. Do not span any material more than 4 feet. For stock that is 1/2 to 1 1/8 inches thick, make the spacing between 3/4 and 1 inch. You can space 2 by 2s up to 2 inches apart under certain circumstances, but spacing them 1 to 1 1/2 inches will make the patio more comfortable in most cases.
On the Traditional Louvered Roof System the louvers will over have the rafter 1” instead of 2’ like on the Pergola Style Louvered Roof making it necessary in some cases to order and extra rafter for support. 90 degree prefabricated corners come with the system. Louvered Roofs by American Louvered Roof Systems have been calculated to qualify for Miami-Dade County wind requirements which are the toughest in the Country. American Louvered Roof Systems has Engineering specifications for most States and are available to purchase with a wet stamp generic copy or site specific.
Measure and cut the rafter boards from 2-by-4 lumber. The rafters will be attached to the ridge board at intervals of 16 to 24 inches (41 to 61 cm) and sit on top of the walls. The length of the rafters depends on the rise (height) of the roof and how far past the walls you want the rafters to extend. 1  Use a miter box or miter saw to cut the rafter boards so you can attach them to the ridge board at the correct angle.
Engineering. Manufactured entirely in the U.S.A. using recycled aluminum and stainless steel components for a low maintenance, long-lasting product. The Arcadia system is engineered to withstand high winds and heavy snow loads. Arcadia's louvered roof system is ideal for any outdoor living area such as patios, decks, lanais, verandas, entry ways, courtyards, outdoor kitchens, swimming pools and spas. A variety of colors, materials and finishes are available to compliment any architectural style. When our louvers are in the closed postition, they create rain channels. With a slight pitch, the rainwater is directed into the built-in gutter system. Our pattented gutter corner pieces make installation a snap, while giving the system a distinct elegant look.
Measure the length of a shingle as it lies across the roof. This will help determine how the shingles will lay on the roof width. Most asphalt shingles are 3 feet (91.4 centimeters) in length. If your roof's width is not an even multiple of the shingle's length, you will have a partial piece on one end of each row. 1 If you're using 3 tab shingles, put in your nails about 3/4 inch (1.8 centimeters) above the cutouts, near where the tab meets the upper part of the shingle. 2  Also place a nail 2 inches from each end of the shingle, in line with the other two. 3  In all, you'll use four nails for each 3-tab shingle to make them secure.
The maximum spans in the table above are for the horizontal distance the rafter can span (NOT the diagonal distance or actual length of the rafter). So if your house is 26 feet wide and the roof ridge beam is centered on the house, you will need a rafter that can span 13 feet. Let's use this example and find a size of rafter that will work. Looking through the center of the table, we can find a couple of options.
Chris from http://www.icreatables.com/sheds/shed... teaches you how to build roof rafters for your shed or outbuilding. This video walks you through all the steps of building roof rafters including: Cutting the rafter boards to length. Cutting the birdsmouth. Building a jig on the shed floor to make sure all the rafters are exactly the same.
Sun, shade, and shelter. Complete control over your outdoor environment. An Arcadia Louvered roof will help you maximize the use of your outdoor space. You can have shade at the touch of a button while still being able to let the sunshine in when it is preferred. With the built in gutter system, you have shelter from the rain as well. 
Part 4 of Residential Structural Design Tutorial. On this page we will explain how to design with roof rafter span tables and how to read all types of joist and roof span tables for residential framing. This page is part of the Design Your Own House online tutorial. So if your house is 26 feet wide and the roof ridge beam is centered on the house, you will need a rafter that can span 13 feet. Let's use this example and find a size of rafter that will work. Looking through the center of the table, we can find a couple of options.