1 We get a flashback to when Waverly was a little girl. 2  She and her family live in San Francisco’s Chinatown, above a bakery. 3  Waverly is named for their address: Waverly Place. 4  She is the youngest of the family and the only daughter. 1 NEXT. 2  We get a flashback to when Waverly was a little girl. 3  She and her family live in San Francisco’s Chinatown, above a bakery. 4  Waverly is named for their address: Waverly Place. 5
10. a. The relationship between Waverly and her mother is like that of chess players. Explain the pattern of their behavior. Give information from the story to support your answer. Waverly and her mother are like the players in a chess game because each one tries to manipulate and control the other. Waverly's mother tries to control her by watching her and telling her what to do.
1 She and her family live in San Francisco’s Chinatown, above a bakery. 2  Waverly is named for their address: Waverly Place. 3  She is the youngest of the family and the only daughter. 4  During the annual Christmas party at First Chinese Baptist Church, Waverly’s older brother receives an old chess set. 1 NEXT. 2  We get a flashback to when Waverly was a little girl. 3  She and her family live in San Francisco’s Chinatown, above a bakery. 4  Waverly is named for their address: Waverly Place. 5  She is the youngest of the family and the only daughter
One of the methods she uses is the game of chess. Chess is a game of intellect and strategy; the very things Waverly's mother wants her to learn. For Christmas a chess game comes to the family. Waverly and her brother begin to play together. The GameAmy Tan's omniscient point of view in Rules of the Game.The omniscient point of view in Amy Tan's short story Rules of the Game enabled her to tell her story in a way which she captures the imagination through
At the end of the story Waverly imagines a chess game with her mother as her opponent. Mrs. Jong sits opposite her, winning the game of inner strength. The chess game is a metaphor for her struggle and rebellion against her mother, and therefore for growing up. a. ) Waverly's view of her mother is justified because she is in conflict with her mother throughout the story. Her mother is always trying to teach her the rules of life according to Chinese culture. For example the values of self-control, modesty, respect for the elderly and obedience.
Rate This Paper: The Rules of the Game by Amy Tan. In The Rules of the Game, a short story about a young Chinese-American girl, Waverly Jong, embarks journey to become a chess master. Waverly's mother believes she is a key component during this journey. 
However, even though it is Waverly's older brother Vincent who gets the chess set, it is when Waverly was seven (according to the American formula) that she started to learn how to play chess. Sources: 1  http://www.enotes.com/topics/rules-game. 2  http://www.enotes.com/topics/rules-game/characters. That seemed to satisfy him. We are told that Waverly's family receives the chess set when they went to the annual Christmas party held at the First Chinese Baptist Church. There was a Santa there with a sack of presents, and it is when Waverly goes to Santa to receive her present that we find out how old she wa