She live Hilary Mantel is the bestselling author of many novels including Wolf Hall, which won the Man Booker Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction. Bring Up the Bodies, Book Two of the Thomas Cromwell Trilogy, was also awarded the Man Booker Prize and the Costa Book Award. Literature & Fiction, Historical Fiction. Hilary Mantel is the bestselling author of many novels including Wolf Hall, which won the Man Booker Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction.
Hilary Mantel. 1  Hilary Mantel is the bestselling author of many novels including Wolf Hall, which won the Man Booker Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction. 2  Bring Up the Bodies, Book Two of the Thomas Cromwell Trilogy, was also awarded the Man Booker Prize and the Costa Book Award. Listen to this audiobook excerpt from Hilary Mantel's Man Booker Prize and National Book Critics Circle Award-winning novel, Wolf Hall, narrated by Simon Slater. In the ruthless arena of King Henry VIII's court, only one man dares to gamble his life to win the king's favor and ascend to the heights of political power.
Wolf Hall (2009) is a historical novel by English author Hilary Mantel, published by Fourth Estate, named after the Seymour family seat of Wolfhall or Wulfhall in Wiltshire. The title comes from the name of the Seymour family seat at Wolfhall or Wulfhall in Wiltshire; the title's allusion to the old Latin saying Homo homini lupus (Man is wolf to man) serves as a constant reminder of the dangerously opportunistic nature of the world through which Cromwell navigates.
Martin Rubin reviews 'Wolf Hall,' a historical novel-recent winner of the Man Booker prize for fiction-that presents Henry VIII's minister Thomas Cromwell in a new light. Listen to this audiobook excerpt from Hilary Mantel's Man Booker Prize and National Book Critics Circle Award-winning novel, Wolf Hall, narrated by Simon Slater. In the ruthless arena of King Henry VIII's court, only one man dares to gamble his life to win the king's favor and ascend to the heights of political power.
Set in the period from 1500 to 1535, Wolf Hall is a highly fictionalised biography documenting the rapid rise to power of Thomas Cromwell in the court of Henry VIII through to the death of Sir Thomas More. The novel won both the Man Booker Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award. In 2012, The Observer named it as one of The 10 best historical novels. The book is the first in a trilogy; the sequel Bring Up the Bodies was published in 2012. The title comes from the name of the Seymour family seat at Wolfhall or Wulfhall in Wiltshire; the title's allusion to the old Latin saying Homo homini lupus (Man is wolf to man) serves as a constant reminder of the dangerously opportunistic nature of the world through which Cromwell navigates.
Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall is a startling achievement, a brilliant historical novel focused on the rise to power of a figure exceedingly unlikely, on the face of things, to arouse any sympathy at all. . . . This is a novel too in which nothing is wasted, and nothing completely disappears. Listen to this audiobook excerpt from Hilary Mantel's Man Booker Prize and National Book Critics Circle Award-winning novel, Wolf Hall, narrated by Simon Slater. In the ruthless arena of King Henry VIII's court, only one man dares to gamble his life to win the king's favor and ascend to the heights of political power.
The sequel to Wolf Hall, called Bring Up the Bodies, was published in May 2012 to wide acclaim. It won the 2012 Costa Book of the Year and the 2012 Man Booker Prize; Mantel thus became the first British writer and the first woman to win the Man Booker Prize more than once. She has twice been awarded the Booker Prize, the first for the 2009 novel Wolf Hall, a fictional account of Thomas Cromwell 's rise to power in the court of Henry VIII, and the second for the 2012 novel Bring Up the Bodies, the second installment of the Cromwell trilogy.
1 Hilary Mantel is the bestselling author of many novels including Wolf Hall, which won the Man Booker Prize and the National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction. Listen to this audiobook excerpt from Hilary Mantel's Man Booker Prize and National Book Critics Circle Award-winning novel, Wolf Hall, narrated by Simon Slater. In the ruthless arena of King Henry VIII's court, only one man dares to gamble his life to win the king's favor and ascend to the heights of political power.