Urine (from Latin Urina, ae, f .) is a liquid by-product of the body secreted by the kidneys through a process called urination (or micturition) and excreted through the urethra. Cellular metabolism generates numerous by-products, many rich in nitrogen, that require clearance from the bloodstream. Average urine production in adult humans is around 1.4 L of urine per person per day with a normal range of 0.6 to 2.6 L per person per day, produced in around 6 to 8 urinations per day depending on state of hydration, activity level, environmental factors, weight, and the individual's health.
Kidneys filter blood that has collected wastes from cells. Nephrons then filter that inside the kidneys. That produces urine which is 96% water, 4% urea and other wastes. Uret … ers pass the urine from each kidney to the bladder that holds urine. Then it goes through the urethra and out of the body. As Kidneys are the Purifying organs in Humans, it receieves blood from the Renal Vein and purifies the blood, the waste material in blood and water is filtered in the kidneys … and that's how it produces Urine. The process of urine production is complex.
The kidneys filter the blood to remove wastes and produce urine. The ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra together form the urinary tract, which acts as a plumbing system to drain urine from the kidneys, store it, and then release it during urination. The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column.
Script: By this time, kidneys produce urine which is released into the amniotic fluid. In male embryos, the developing testes begin to produce and release testosterone. The bones, joints, muscles, nerves, and blood vessels of the limbs closely resemble those in adults. 
Urination is the process of releasing urine from the urinary bladder through the urethra and out of the body. The process of urination begins when the muscles of the urethral sphincters relax, allowing urine to pass through the urethra. The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column.
Storage and Excretion of Wastes. After urine has been produced by the kidneys, it is transported through the ureters to the urinary bladder. The urinary bladder fills with urine and stores it until the body is ready for its excretion. The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column.
In humans, soluble wastes are excreted primarily by the urinary system and, to a lesser extent in terms of urea removed, by perspiration. The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra. The system produces urine by a process of filtration, reabsorption, and tubular secretion. Average urine production in adult humans is around 1.4 L of urine per person per day with a normal range of 0.6 to 2.6 L per person per day, produced in around 6 to 8 urinations per day depending on state of hydration, activity level, environmental factors, weight, and the individual's health.
(Answer #1). The renal artery carries blood into the kidneys, which once there is filtered by nephrons. The waste filtered by these nephrons is combined with water to make urine. As the urine is produced it drains out of a tube called the ureter and collects in the bladder. Once your bladder is about half way fill your body signals you that you have to urinate. The urine exits your body through a tube called the urethra. 2. Waste is filtered out of the blood by nephrons. 3. Water is mixed with the waste collected. 4. The result is urine that is drained through the ureter into the bladder. 5. When your bladder is half full your body thinks pee!. 6. When you pee it exits out your body through
Answer by NotSally. Confidence votes 2.7K. The kidneys filter your blood from salts and minerals, drugs and waste materials produced in chemical processes in the body, as urine. The urine is then stored in the bladder until it is eliminated. The kidneys. Nitrogenous waste from the blood is excreted in the form of urine. Kidney In mammals, the kidneys and bladder are responsible for removing excess nitrogen in the … form of Urea.  .