Domestic abuse that includes physical violence is called domestic violence. The victim of domestic abuse or domestic violence may be a man or a woman. Domestic abuse occurs in traditional heterosexual marriages, as well as in same-sex partnerships. The abuse may occur during a relationship, while the couple is breaking up, or after the relationship has ended. All too frequently the media bombards us with news about a high-profile domestic violence case, where a man or woman is suspected of murdering their wife or husband, with or without a previous history of domestic abuse. Violence.
Introduction: This information shows the various causes of Violence, and how common these diseases or conditions are in the general population. This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Violence, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. The following causes of Violence are ones for which we do not have any prevalence information. 1  Acute intermittent porphyria-violence. 2  Amphetamine abuse-violence. 3  Dexedrine withdrawal-violence. 4  Jumping Frenchmen of Main
workplace image by Andrey Kiselev from Fotolia.com. Workplace violence takes many forms and has many causes. Angered former employees, customers who feel wronged, stressed out employees or a conflict between co-workers can elevate to the point of a violent altercation in the office. 
Psychological and Social Considerations. Tracing the ferment of workplace violence back to its root causes involves looking into the role of individual behaviour, the interaction of a set of risk factors and the situations presenting the greatest risk. 
Domestic abuse is most often one of the following: child abuse abuse of a spouse or domestic intimate partner elder abuse In this article, we discuss domestic abuse between spouses and intimate partners: the types of domestic abuse, signs and symptoms, causes, and effects. Domestic violence and abuse are common. The first step in ending the misery is recognition that the situation is abusive. Then you can seek help. All too frequently the media bombards us with news about a high-profile domestic violence case, where a man or woman is suspected of murdering their wife or husband, with or without a previous history of domestic abuse. Violence.
1 Anger is a major source of fuel that will fan the flames of domestic violence. 2  Drug and/or alcohol abuse may be a precursor to domestic violence. 3  Substance abuse leads to out-of-control behavior. 4  The number one commonality within the dynamics of most alcoholic families is poor emotional health. 1 Domestic violence is more frequent where individuals experience loss of physical health and/or wage-earning power. 2  It peaks during the Christmas season as husbands, fathers, and single parents face the pressures of paying bill collectors and buying Christmas gifts.
1 As a young man, his frustration and isolation may grow and, along with it, a hidden anger due to his feelings of helplessness. 2  Anger is a major source of fuel that will fan the flames of domestic violence. 3  Drug and/or alcohol abuse may be a precursor to domestic violence. 1 Domestic violence is more frequent where individuals experience loss of physical health and/or wage-earning power. 2  It peaks during the Christmas season as husbands, fathers, and single parents face the pressures of paying bill collectors and buying Christmas gifts.
Violence in many forms is preventable. There is a strong relationship between levels of violence and modifiable factors such as concentrated poverty, income and gender inequality, the harmful use of alcohol, and the absence of safe, stable, and nurturing relationships between children and parents. 
Causes Of Domestic Violence. 1  An environment where violence is either taught, by example, or accepted as normal will imprint upon a child's psyche. 2  A young boy may see his father come home from work drunk and angry, screaming at his mother. 1 Domestic violence is more frequent where individuals experience loss of physical health and/or wage-earning power. 2  It peaks during the Christmas season as husbands, fathers, and single parents face the pressures of paying bill collectors and buying Christmas gifts.
Causes of Violence-and other blights on lives. Although there are many and complex causes of violence and other blights on lives, we have identified two components which are basic to a violent act. These are: 1  The Propensity to be Violent. 