Manta Ray Enemies. The Manta Ray has a few natural predators to be aware of in their environment. They are mainly bothered by sharks and killer whales that find them to be a very easy meal. As the regular foods that these predators consume continue to be depleted, the Manta Ray is a great substitute. Since they are extremely large animals they are a good meal for these types of predators that need large amounts of food to survive. Of course the risk of being a meal for sharks and orcas depends on the area where the Manta Ray resides.
The triangular shaped pectoral fins of the bat ray are often called the wings and compared to those of a bat, hence the common name. These rays swim gracefully by flapping their bat-like pectoral fins bird style. The fins are also used to hunt food.
I definitely recommend buying this version if you have the older DVD or first Blu-Ray release. Predator Ultimate Hunter Edition goes on sale June 29th in the US and July 5th in the UK.
Just in time for the release of Predators, 20th Century Fox is releasing a new Blu-Ray set called Predator: Ultimate Hunter Edition which comes with a new digital restoration of the film.
No. Predators is a direct sequel to Predator (1987) and its sequel Predator 2 (1990). However this film ignores the events of AVP: Alien vs. Predator (2004) and AVPR: Aliens vs Predator-Requiem (2007).
This article is a picture quality comparison between the two Blu-Ray releases. The first image is the old version, the second screenshot is the new version. You really need to check out the full 1080p screenshots to see the difference.
Part of the disappointment with the first Blu-ray release of 'Predator' was a bare-bones package. For this new Ultimate Hunter Edition, Fox Studios corrects their previous blunder by porting over the same set of bonus features seen on the two-disc special edition DVD of 2004. And they add a couple of new featurettes.
Humans are the biggest predators of the Manta Ray. In many parts of the world hunting for them continues to be a huge industry. This includes areas of Mexico, California, and Australia.Manta Rays are hunted for their meat, for their skin that feels like sandpaper, and for their oil.