An illustration of the first use of ether as an anesthetic in 1846 by the dental surgeon W.T.G. Morton. Photo: Wikimedia Commons. Recalling these lessons during the summer of 1846, Morton purchased bottles of the stuff from his local chemist and began exposing himself and a menagerie of pets to ether fumes. 
However, Morton's work was preceded by that of Georgia surgeon Crawford Williamson Long, who employed ether as an anesthetic on March 30, 1842. Although Long demonstrated its use to physicians in Georgia on numerous occasions, he did not publish his findings until 1849, in The Southern Medical and Surgical Journal. In the autumn of 1844, Morton entered Harvard Medical School and attended the chemistry lectures of Dr. Charles T. Jackson, who introduced Morton to the anesthetic properties of ether. Morton then also left Harvard without graduating.
Venable felt no pain from the procedure and paid two dollars for the tumor extraction. Four years later, on September 30, 1846, Dr. William Morton, a former dental partner of Dr. Horace Wells, who had advocated the use of nitrous oxide as an anesthetic, administered ether to remove a tooth of a patient in Boston. 
William Thomas Green Morton (August 9, 1819 – July 15, 1868) was an American dentist who first publicly demonstrated the use of inhaled ether as a surgical anesthetic in 1846. The promotion of his questionable claim to have been the discoverer of anesthesia became an obsession for the rest of his life. In the autumn of 1844, Morton entered Harvard Medical School and attended the chemistry lectures of Dr. Charles T. Jackson, who introduced Morton to the anesthetic properties of ether. Morton then also left Harvard without graduating.
Today, Crawford Long is recognized as the first physician to use ether as an anesthetic during surgery. But it was William Morton’s ether demonstration at Massachusetts General Hospital, and his desire for fame and fortune, that first alerted the world to the miracle of anesthesia. At the time of William Morton’s ether demonstration, people had known about ether for more than 300 years. But for most of those 300 years no one had thought to use it as an anesthetic.
The material can be used as an anesthetic. An American dentist named William Morton in 1846 was the first to announce that ether was a valuable anesthetic. But credit for first using ether goes to a doctor, Crawford Long of Georgia, who used it in operations in 1842. Ether is considered a safer anesthetic than chloroform. 
1 Ether was the first real anesthetic and it was invented around 1535 but wasn’t discovered as an anesthetic until 1846. 2  Prior to 1846 alcohol, opium, and other substances were used but they didn’t work in every case and were not nearly as effective. 3  Since October 16, 1846 surgery has been much less awful. 4  3. 1 2. 2  When was the first real anesthetic discovered and how has it changed medicine? 3 
Re-enactment of the first public demonstration of general anesthesia by William T. G. Morton on October 16, 1846 in the Ether Dome at Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. Surgeons John Collins Warren and Henry Jacob Bigelow are included in this daguerrotype by Southworth & Hawes. On 30 September 1846, Morton administered diethyl ether to Eben Frost, a music teacher from Boston, for a dental extraction. Two weeks later, Morton became the first to publicly demonstrate the use of diethyl ether as a general anesthetic at Massachusetts General Hospital, in what is known today as the Ether Dome.
Ether was first discovered as an anesthetic by dentist William T.G. Morton in 1846. It was first used in surgery at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Diethyl Ether, more commenly known as Ether was one of the first anesthetics, and was marketed in the 19th century (mixed with ethanol) as a cure-all and recreational drug.  …  It may also be used as an inhalant and can be used to make a variety of illegal drugs such as cocaine and meth.