Dr. James Naismith was a Canadian physical education instructor who invented the game of basketball in 1891 while working at the YMCA Training School in Springfield, Massachusetts.. We will give you a hint from the Wonder... 
Basketball was invented in 1891 by physical education instructer  James Naismith at Springfield College in springfield. He created  the game so his phys-ed students could pl … ay a sport in the winter  that was indoors. Dr. James Naismith, who was an educational philosopher, invented basketball in 1891 in Spingfield, Massachusettes. The Mayans invented a game similar to basketball hundreds or … years ago.
Basketball was invented by James Naismith in December, 1891. He created the sport in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was a physical education teacher at the Springfield Y … MCA. The game was invented as a activity the children could play indoors and would give them a good workout. Dr. James Naismith, who was an educational philosopher, invented basketball in 1891 in Spingfield, Massachusettes. The Mayans invented a game similar to basketball hundreds or … years ago.
The roots of basketball are firmly embedded in Canada. In 1891 the game was invented by Dr. James Naismith, a Canadian who hailed from Almonte, Ontario. Basketball played by school and local amateur teams has been part of the Canadian sports scene since the turn of the century
Wiki Commons. Dr. James Naismith was the Canadian-born physical education instructor who, inspired by a teaching assignment and his own childhood, invented basketball in 1891. Naismith was born in Almonte, Ontario and educated at McGill University and Presbyterian College in Montreal. Dr. Naismith, who became a medical doctor in 1898, was subsequently hired by the University of Kansas that same year. He went on to establish one of collegiate basketball’s most storied programs and served as the Athletic Director and faculty member at the university for nearly 40 years, retiring in 1937.
Basketball was invented in 1891 by physical education instructer  James Naismith at Springfield College in springfield. He created  the game so his phys-ed students could pl … ay a sport in the winter  that was indoors. Facts about Dr. James Naismith James Naismith was born in Almonte, Ontario in 1861. He was educated at McGill University and Presbyterian College in Montreal. He was the physical education teacher at McGill University (1887 to 1890) and at Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts (1890 to 1895).
The game of basketball was invented by James Naismith in 1891. Naismith was a Canadian physical education instructor at the International YMCA Training School in Springfield, … Massachusetts. Dr. James Naismith, who was an educational philosopher, invented basketball in 1891 in Spingfield, Massachusettes. The Mayans invented a game similar to basketball hundreds or … years ago.
Who Invented Basketball. The man who invented basketball, Dr. James Naismith, was born in 1861 in a small Canadian township bordering Almonte, Ontario called Ramsay. As a youth he enjoyed playing many games including a medieval sport known as duck on a rock. 
by Tomo · December 12, 2010. Basketball was invented in 1891 by the Canadian physical instructor James Naismith. He was born in Almonte, Ontario in Canada on November 6, 1861. At the tender age of nine he lost both his parents within three weeks. He got educated at Mcgill University and Presbyterian College at Montreal