The David W. Leebron Human Rights Fellowship enables a Columbia Law School graduate to spend one year working with a host organization on a human rights project of the graduate’s choice anywhere in the world.
Northwestern Law and its Center for International Human Rights offers a four-year joint degree program leading to both a JD and an LLM in International Human Rights, with a focus on both international human rights law and international criminal law.
Researching international human rights law can be a confusing mess of treaties and documents. The materials (for the most part) are not set out in a coherent, well organized fashion. The sources of information range from recognized treaty law to more ephemeral materials from non-governmental organizations.
The Heller School is proud to offer a two-year international dual degree program in which students earn an MA in Coexistence and Conflict from Brandeis University and an MA in International Law and Human Rights from the University for Peace in Costa Rica.
Examples of human rights are the right to freedom of religion, the right to a fair trial when charged with a crime, the right not to be tortured, and the right to engage in political activity. These rights exist in morality and in law at the national and international levels.
The UN General Assembly proclaimed in 2007 that the International Year of Human Rights Learning would start on December 10, 2008, which was the 60 years after the UN’s human rights declaration was proclaimed.
International Human Rights Law. The international human rights movement was strengthened when the United Nations General Assembly adopted of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) on 10 December 1948.
The second year of the dual-degree program takes place on the UPeace campus in Costa Rica; the Master’s in International Law and Human Rights (ILHR) program is a 40-credit, ten-month program divided into two semesters, between August of one year and June of the following year. All courses are taught in English.