Lowrance’s Elite 4 Combination GPS/Fishfinder is the perfect solution for limited space. A 4.3” Color Display, Preloaded with over 3,000 lakes and Rivers and Coastal Contours to 1,000 feet the Elite 4 combines CHIRP Sonar with the already proven DownScan imaging to provide underwater images like never before. The Lowrance Elite 3X with 83/200 Transom Mount Transducer offers a bright color display and provides detailed information from under your boat. View fish targets, bottom contour, bottom hardness, underwater structure detail and more.
What is the difference between Lowrance HDS and Lowrance Elite HDI. Ever since the Elite 7 HDI came on the market I have recived a lot of questions regarding the difference between the HDS-range and Elite HDI. In this article I will try to list most of the differences, seen from a keen anglers point of view. EDIT. With Lowrance HDS Gen 3 entering the market, I have written another article on the differences between Gen 3 and previous generations. You can find it here: http://teamcolibri.blogspot.no/2015/09/what-is-difference-between-lowrance-hds.html.
Lowrance, a designer and manufacturer of Sonar, GPS and Aviation instruments, got its start in Joplin, Missouri in 1957. Carl Lowrance, an avid fisherman with an inquisitive nature, shared his love of the sport with his two sons, Darrell and Arlen. Soon, many boats had more than one sonar unit on board. In 1979, Lowrance introduced the LDD-1800, the world's first sonar unit guaranteed NOT to find fish. The LDD-1800 was one of the first digital depth sounders to be controlled by a tiny computer built inside.
Lowrance’s Elite 4 CHIRP is a compact combination GPS/Fishfinder with the most advanced sonar technologies. Perfect when space is limited this 4.3” Color GPS includes detailed Navionics Nav+ mapping, built-in GPS receiver and CHIRP Sonar with DownScan Imaging. 83/200 Transom Mount Transducer Included. The Lowrance Elite 3X with 83/200 Transom Mount Transducer offers a bright color display and provides detailed information from under your boat. View fish targets, bottom contour, bottom hardness, underwater structure detail and more.
Lowrance have a number of variations of the their Elite Fishfinder and Fishfinder/plotter combinations: Fishfinder DSI Models are Elite 4x DSI, Elite 5x DSI. 
Read more. Lowrance -- world leader In fishing electronics since 1957 -- continues its dominant role in the marine industry by developing innovative products with meaningful benefits to anglers. Show less. 
Choosing the best Transducer for your Lowrance Fish Finder needs some understanding of the differences and the features of the Transducers on offer. There are two types commonly referred to as: 'Shallow' and 'Deep' water. The differences are not only in the Frequency but also in the Beam Width and they are as follows: Lowrance Transducers are designed for specific hull types and operating depths and are supplied with 6m cables (extension cables are available). Chosing the right Lowrance transducer is not rocket science, it is a simple matter of answering the right questions:
Lowrance’s HDS 7 Gen3 Series of GPS/Fishfinders brings the best of GPS and Sonar technologies together. A bright 7” Widescreen Display, preloaded Insight Mapping for Coastal and Inland waters throughout the US and CHIRP Sonar with Structure Scan the HDS7 Gen3 is sure to enhance your marine experience. The Lowrance Elite 3X with 83/200 Transom Mount Transducer offers a bright color display and provides detailed information from under your boat. View fish targets, bottom contour, bottom hardness, underwater structure detail and more.
Lowrance is a manufacturer of consumer sonar and GPS receivers, as well as digital mapping systems. Headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma, Lowrance employs approximately 1,000 people. Soon, many boats had more than one sonar unit on board. In 1979, Lowrance introduced the LDD-1800, the world's first sonar unit guaranteed NOT to find fish. The LDD-1800 was one of the first digital depth sounders to be controlled by a tiny computer built inside.
In the fall of 2008, Lowrance announced a complete overhaul to its line GPS and sonar devices with the introduction of the Lowrance High Definition Systems (HDS). Soon, many boats had more than one sonar unit on board. In 1979, Lowrance introduced the LDD-1800, the world's first sonar unit guaranteed NOT to find fish. The LDD-1800 was one of the first digital depth sounders to be controlled by a tiny computer built inside.