The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA; Pub.L. 104–191, 110 Stat. 1936, enacted August 21, 1996) was enacted by the United States Congress and signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996. 
Welcome to HIPAA 101. HIPAA, which stands for the American Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, is a set of rules to be followed by doctors, hospitals and other health care providers.
Definition. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. A law mandating that anyone belonging to a group health insurance plan must be allowed to purchase health insurance within an interval of time beginning when the previous coverage is lost. 
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is Federal legislation that created national standards to protect the privacy of patients’ medical records and other personal health information. Security and privacy have become increasingly important in our electronic age of healthcare. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contains regulations for maintaining the security of EPHI through the use of administrative, physical and technical security measures. 1  Privacy-The rule that provides guidelines intended to protect the confidentiality of PHI
HIPAA: Acronym that stands for the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, a US law designed to provide privacy standards to protect patients' medical records and other health information provided to health plans, doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. Developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, these new standards provide patients with access to their medical records and more control over how their personal health information is used and disclosed. They represent a uniform, federal floor of privacy protections for consumers across the country.
HIPAA Definition Index. The terms below link to their definitions in the HIPAA Regulations and/or HITECH Act. Many of HITECH's defined terms use the same definition for the term in HIPAA. Access. 
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) HIPAA was signed into federal law in 1996 (Public Law 104-191). HIPAA is the single most significant Federal legislation affecting the health care industry since the creation of the Medicare and Medicaid programs in 1965. Title I of the Act improves the portability and continuity of health insurance coverage for millions of American workers and their families.
Expand. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is a law that charges the Department of Health and Human Services to establish regulations for the handling of protected health information (PHI). Security and privacy have become increasingly important in our electronic age of healthcare. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) contains regulations for maintaining the security of EPHI through the use of administrative, physical and technical security measures. 1  Privacy-The rule that provides guidelines intended to protect the confidentiality of PHI
HIPAA compliance is the state of being in alignment with guidelines set by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, including data privacy and security provisions designed to safeguard medical information. Also known as the Administrative Simplification provisions, Title II includes the following HIPAA compliance requirements: 1  National Provider Identifier Standard. 2  Transactions and Code Sets Standards. 3  HIPAA Privacy Rule. 4  HIPAA Security Rule. 5  HIPAA Enforcement Rule.