Save. A calorie is a unit that measures the amount of energy that food provides to the body. The body turns food into fuel after it's been eaten, burning it to produce energy. Calories in food come from carbohydrates, proteins and fats. Carbohydrates contain 4 calories per gram, the same as proteins
Multiply the total number of carbohydrate grams eaten by 4 to get the carbohydrate calorie intake. Be sure to have at least a 1,200 calorie intake per day spread over all food groups outlined in the Food Pyramid Guidelines. A calorie is a unit that measures the amount of energy that food provides to the body. The body turns food into fuel after it's been eaten, burning it to produce energy. Calories in food come from carbohydrates, proteins and fats. Carbohydrates contain 4 calories per gram, the same as protein
After you've used Active's calorie calculator to determine your daily caloric needs, use this nutritional needs calculator to find out how to break out those calories into carbohydrates, proteins and fats. 
1 To calculate the grams of carbs in your food based on the weight, you need to know two things: the weight of the food item; and the “factor” for that food item. 2  There is a different factor for each type of food (e.g. bread has a factor of 15, which means there are 15 grams of carbs for every ounce of bread). Determine how much of your diet should consist of carbs. Diets for the majority of people should have 40-60% of their calories from carbohydrates. This may be lower in people with diabetes, PCOS, and other medical conditions.
Step 2. Convert calorie targets into grams of fat, protein and carbohydrates. For a 2,000 calorie diet and the desired 30/20/50 distribution, this amounts to 600 calories from fat, 400 from protein and 1,000 from carbohydrates. Each gram of fat contains 9 calories, so this amounts to approximately 67 grams of fat per day. Protein and carbohydrates contain 4 calories per gram, so this plan allots 100 grams of protein and 250 grams of carbohydrates. Step 3. Look up the nutrition information for all of the foods you eat. Measure the number of servings of each food item you consume. Use measuring cups or a scale to calculate how many servings of each food item you consume. Step 5. Multiply the amount of fat, protein and carbohydrates in one serving of every food item you consume by the number of servings you ate.
How to calculate calories on a food label. The following box is sometimes shown on a food label. It tells you there are 9 calories in 1 gram of fat, 4 calories in 1 gram of carbohydrate, and 4 grams in 1 gram of protein…always. Fat, carbohydrates, and protein are the only nutrients that contribute calories to food.Add up the calories from these three nutrients to get the total calories shown on the label. 1  1 gram of fat = 9 calories. 2  1 gram of carbohydrates = 4 calorie
45-65% of total calories from carbohydrates); the average fat gram need for women (1) is 40-65 grams and 65-95 grams for men (2) (assuming approx. 20-35% of total calories from fats); protein intake should be approximately 50-100 grams for women (1) and approximately 60-150 grams for men (2) Fiber Calculator. Next, visit Free Dieting's Calorie Calculator for Macronutrients to determine the number of grams of carbohydrates, fats and proteins your body needs. The calculations for your macronutrient needs are based upon percentages of your body's total energy need.
The Carbohydrate Calculator estimates the percentage of carbohydrates you will need each day. Carbohydrates are not essential nutrients – the human body can obtain all its energy from protein and fats. However, the brain and its neurons generally cannot burn fat and need glucose for energy. The Institute of Medicine recommends a minimum of 130 grams of carbohydrates per day, which is the average minimal usage of glucose that the brain uses on a daily basis. You need 2,361 Calories/day to maintain your weight. You should take 252 (40%) - 472 (75%) grams of carbohydrate for your energy needs.
Once you know how many calories you’re eating in a day – and the total number of carbs, protein and fat you’ve eaten – it’s easy to calculate the percentage of calories you’ve eaten from fat, carbs and protein using just a calculator. Calories per Gram. MedlinePlus reports that carbs and protein each provide 4 calories per gram, and fat contains 9 calories in each gram. For example, if you’ve eaten 65 total grams of dietary fat, you’ve consumed 585 calories from fat.