Ephed ephedrine hcl contains guaifenesin is it an expectorant or a Mucokinetic. Mucokinetics are a class of drugs which aid in the clearance of mucus from the airways, lungs, bronchi, and trachea. Such drugs can be further categorized by their mechanism of action: 1  mucolytic agents. Often times the term “expectorant” is incorrectly used with any cough medicine. To get the benefits of an expectorant your product must have and expectorant ingredient in it. Mucinex, a popular over the counter, sinus, cough, cold, mucus relief product contains Guaifenesin but does not contain Ephedrine HCL.
Guaifenesin/P-Ephedrine/Cod oral Uses. How to use Guaifenesin/P-Ephedrine/Cod oral. See also Warning section. This combination medication is used to temporarily treat cough, chest congestion, and stuffy nose symptoms caused by the common cold, flu, or other breathing illnesses (e.g., sinusitis, bronchitis). Guaifenesin/P-Ephedrine/Cod oral Precautions. Before taking this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Guaifenesin/P-Ephedrine/Cod oral Side Effects. Dizziness, drowsiness, headache, upset stomach, nausea, constipation, nervousness, or trouble sleeping may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, contact your doctor or pharmacist promptly. Guaifenesin/P-Ephedrine/Cod oral Precautions. Before taking this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Pseudoephedrine is a drug found in both prescription and over-the-counter products used to relieve nasal or sinus congestion caused by the common cold, sinusitis, hay fever, and other respiratory allergies. The FDA is announcing new legal requirements for the legal sale and purchase of drug products containing pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, and phenylpropanolamine required by the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005.
This is especially important if you will be giving cough and cold medications to a child. Nonprescription cough and cold combination products, including products that contain guaifenesin, can cause serious side effects or death in young children. Do not give these products to children younger than 4 years of age. Guaifenesin may help control symptoms but does not treat the cause of symptoms or speed recovery. Guaifenesin is in a class of medications called expectorants. It works by thinning the mucus in the air passages to make it easier to cough up the mucus and clear the airways.
Pseudoephedrine (/ˌsjuːdoʊ.ɨˈfɛdrɪn/ or /ˌsjuːdoʊˈɛfɨdriːn/ ; PSE) is a sympathomimetic drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes. It may be used as a nasal/sinus decongestant, as a stimulant, or as a wakefulness-promoting agent. Also, that everyone should avoid taking ephedrine or pseudoephrine with other stimulants like caffeine. They also banned all products that contain ephedrine (or pseudoephedrine) and caffeine. Products whose only medicinal ingredient is pseudoephedrine must be kept behind the pharmacy counter.
In the US -. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. In Canada-Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to Health Canada at 1-866-234-2345. List ephedrine sulfate-guaifenesin side effects by likelihood and severity
Guaifenesin/P-Ephedrine/Cod oral Interactions. Drug interactions may change how your medications work or increase your risk for serious side effects. This document does not contain all possible drug interactions. Guaifenesin/P-Ephedrine/Cod oral Precautions. Before taking this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.