After knee joint replacement, people are standing and moving the joint the day after surgery. At first, you may walk with the help of parallel bars, and then a walking device -- such as crutches, walker, or cane -- will be used until your knee is able to support your full body weight. The average hospital stay after knee joint replacement is usually three to five days. The vast majority of people who undergo knee joint replacement surgery have dramatic improvement. This improvement is most notable one month or more after surgery
Hmmm, this could signal a lack of blood circulation. A lot of people notice a distinct difference in the color of the two legs/feet for weeks following surgery. My right leg is still darker than my left-but I wouldn’t call it blue. I think you should call your surgeon right away. Better safe than sorry. I see it when I’ve been elevating for a few hours then get up to shower, etc. It’s probably just the blood rushing down to the foot-which is still very sensitive at this stage. When I climb back into bed (where I spent most of my time the past 2 weeks) everything returns to “normal”.
1 Blood clots. 2  People may develop a blood clot in a leg vein after knee joint replacement surgery. 3  Blood clots can be dangerous if they block blood flow from the leg back to the heart or move to the lungs. Most people who have knee replacement surgery start to walk with a walker or crutches the day of surgery or the next day. And most people can bear weight on the knee if it is comfortable. A physical therapist will help you gently bend and straighten your knee.
In knee replacement surgery, doctors remove the damaged cartilage and replace it with new joint surfaces in a step-by-step process. Joint changes caused by osteoarthritis may also stretch and damage the ligaments that connect the thighbone to the lower leg bone. Most people who have knee replacement surgery start to walk with a walker or crutches the day of surgery or the next day. And most people can bear weight on the knee if it is comfortable. A physical therapist will help you gently bend and straighten your knee.
You and your doctor may consider knee replacement surgery if you have a stiff, painful knee that makes it difficult to perform even the simplest of activities, and other treatments are no longer working. This surgery is generally reserved for people over age 50 who have severe osteoarthritis. The average hospital stay after knee joint replacement is usually three to five days. The vast majority of people who undergo knee joint replacement surgery have dramatic improvement. This improvement is most notable one month or more after surgery
Joint replacement involves surgery to replace the ends of bones in a damaged joint. This surgery creates new joint surfaces. In knee replacement surgery, the ends of the damaged thigh and lower leg (shin) bones and usually the kneecap are capped with artificial surfaces lined with metal and plastic. Most people who have knee replacement surgery start to walk with a walker or crutches the day of surgery or the next day. And most people can bear weight on the knee if it is comfortable. A physical therapist will help you gently bend and straighten your knee.
I am 10 weeks out and have so many different things with the knee. I NEVER dreamed it would be this bad.. It seems to be some better some days and then back to square one..the stiffness never goes away. Back to OS on the 15th to see if my flexion is any better if not, he will do the MUA.. Sure hope I can avoid that.. 
Everyone heals from total knee replacement surgery at a different pace. In most cases, however, you will likely use a walker or crutches for 2 to 4 weeks after your operation. You will then advance to a cane and wean to no assistive device at all. When you can return to work after total knee replacement surgery depends on your profession. If your work is sedentary, you may return as early as 2 to 4 weeks post-operatively. If your work is more rigorous, you may require up to 3 months before you can return to full duty.
Generally, you should not use weights for the first 2 months after total knee replacement surgery. However, as everyone's strength varies, consult with your physical therapist before using weights. Use light weights to begin with (1 to 5 lbs.) and gradually progress. When you can return to work after total knee replacement surgery depends on your profession. If your work is sedentary, you may return as early as 2 to 4 weeks post-operatively. If your work is more rigorous, you may require up to 3 months before you can return to full duty.