Saliva testing is much more specific and correctly identifies the level of hormones at the cellular level, in contrast to a serum (blood) test, which measures the level of hormones circulating in the bloodstream. Saliva testing is not helpful, however, to monitor women who are taking hormones in a sublingual (drops or spray) or tansmucosal (lozenge or troche) format. These forms of hormone delivery concentrate the hormones in the salivary glands and the resulting saliva levels are too high to be useful.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Hormones are chemical messengers that are secreted directly into the blood, which carries them to organs and tissues of the body to exert their functions. There are many types of hormones that act on different aspects of bodily functions and processes. Some of these include: Hormones are secreted from the endocrine glands in the body. The glands are ductless, so hormones are secreted directly into the blood stream rather than by way of ducts. Some of the major endocrine glands in the body include:
A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour. Some hormones are completely active when released into the bloodstream (as is the case for insulin and growth hormones), while others must be activated in specific cells through a series of activation steps that are commonly highly regulated.
Hormones such as antidiuretic; a hormone produced in the pituitary gland causes the kidneys to keep hold of water and aldosterone which helps in the control of blood pressure, another example is renin found in the kidneys, renin plays a part in the control of blood pressure. Another example is, aldosterone, which belongs to a class of hormones called mineral corticoids, produced in the adrenal glands. Role of aldosterone is to help maintain blood pressure, water and salt levels balanced in the body.
The release of anti-diuretic hormone from the pituitary gland into the bloodstream is controlled by a number of factors. A decrease in blood volume or low blood pressure, which occurs during dehydration or a haemorrhage, is detected by sensors (receptors) in the heart and large blood vessels. 
The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them. The endocrine system regulates its hormones through negative feedback, except in very specific cases like childbirth. Increases in hormone activity decrease the production of that hormone. The immune system and other factors contribute as control factors also, altogether maintaining constant levels of hormones.
The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands. Many blood vessels surround the pituitary gland to carry the hormones it releases throughout the body. Situated in a small depression in the sphenoid bone called the sella turcica, the pituitary gland is actually made of 2 completely separate structures: the posterior and anterior pituitary glands.
When hormones are released by the endocrine glands into the blood stream, they target specific cells, tissues, or organs. Each target has specific receptors for the hormones, like fitting a key to a lock. The hypothalamus is an endocrine gland located in the lower middle of the brain. Most of the endocrine glands are controlled by feedback systems that avoid hormone imbalance. Hormones from one gland can target other glands and stimulate them to produce and release a different hormone into the blood, which in turn can affect different target tissues.
Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Controls production of sex hormones (estrogen in women and testosterone in men) and the production of eggs in women and sperm in men. Pituitary gland. Antidiuretic hormone (vasopressin). Affects water retention in kidneys; controls blood pressure. Pituitary gland. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Controls production of sex hormones (estrogen in women and testosterone in men) and the production of eggs in women and sperm in men.onsider the following hormones and their role in the workings of the endocrine system: Where the hormone is produced. Hormone(s) secreted. Hormone function. Adrenal glands. Aldosterone.