A 3 oz. serving of cooked goat meat contains fewer calories than the same cooked weight of beef, chicken, lamb or pork: 122 calories in goat meat vs. 162 in chicken, 179 in beef, 180 in pork and 175 in lamb. Health Benefits. Goat meat provides a leaner protein source than beef, lamb, chicken or pork. This means it is low in saturated fat, the type that increases your LDL cholesterol, and higher in unsaturated fats, the type that helps increase your HDL, or good cholesterol.
1 Goat meat is lean and low in fat. 2  Goat meat is lower in fat and cholesterol than chicken. 3  Goat meat is lower in calories than beef, lamb and pork. 4  Goat meat has iron levels higher than beef. 5  Goat meat is exceptionally lean and low in fat, making it an ideal choice for health conscious consumers. 1 Goat meat is the only meat that transcends all religious boundaries. 2  Goat meat is lean and low in fat. 3  Goat meat is lower in fat and cholesterol than chicken. 4  Goat meat is lower in calories than beef, lamb and pork.
Goat meat has 2.6 g of total fat, 0.79 g of saturated fat, 63.8 mg of cholesterol and 23 g of protein per 3 oz. serving. It also has relatively high levels of iron compared to its competitors, 3.2 mg per 3 oz. serving vs. 2.9 mg in beef, 2.7 mg in pork, 1.4 mg in lamb and 1.5 mg in chicken. Goat meat is also a rich source of potassium. Goat meat provides a leaner protein source than beef, lamb, chicken or pork. Health Benefits. Goat meat provides a leaner protein source than beef, lamb, chicken or pork. This means it is low in saturated fat, the type that increases your LDL cholesterol, and higher in unsaturated fats, the type that helps increase your HDL, or good cholesterol.
Low in Total and Saturated Fat & Cholesterol: Goat meat is lower in total and saturated fat and cholesterol than most other meats including chicken, pork, lamb and beef. Specifically, goat meat has 50% to 65% less fat than beef, though it delivers similar amounts of protein. Nutrient Rich Source of Protein: Goat has relatively high levels of iron compared to its competitor meats—3.2 milligrams per 3 ounce serving versus 2.9 milligrams in beef, 2.7 mgs in pork, 1.4 mgs in lamb and 1.5 mgs in chicken. Goat meat is also a rich source of potassium. 1  Name:*. 2  Email:*.
1 Goat meat is lower in calories than beef, lamb and pork. 2  Goat meat has iron levels higher than beef. 3  Goat meat is exceptionally lean and low in fat, making it an ideal choice for health conscious consumers. 4  Similar in taste to beef, but slightly sweeter, goat meat is a healthy choice for meat lovers. 1 Goat meat is the only meat that transcends all religious boundaries. 2  Goat meat is lean and low in fat. 3  Goat meat is lower in fat and cholesterol than chicken. 4  Goat meat is lower in calories than beef, lamb and pork.
There are 143 calories in 100 grams of roasted goat meat, which is slightly lower than the amount in 100-gram servings of roasted lean beef bottom, tri-tip roast sirloin or pork loin, which have between 193 and 223 calories. Goat, lean beef and lean pork all have about 27 grams protein per 100-gram serving, and their protein is high quality, which means that it provides all the essential amino acids that you need to get from your diet. Like other pure meats, goat meat is carbohydrate free.
Fewer Calories than Other Meats: A three-ounce serving of cooked goat meat contains fewer calories than the same cooked weight of beef, chicken, lamb or pork: 122 calories in goat meat versus 162 calories in chicken, 179 in beef, 180 in pork and 175 in lamb. Nutrient Rich Source of Protein: Goat has relatively high levels of iron compared to its competitor meats—3.2 milligrams per 3 ounce serving versus 2.9 milligrams in beef, 2.7 mgs in pork, 1.4 mgs in lamb and 1.5 mgs in chicken. Goat meat is also a rich source of potassium. 1  Name:*. 2  Email:*.
Nutritional Values. The nutritional value of goat meat depends primarily on the way it is prepared and how big the serving size is. A 4 oz. cooked serving of goat meat has 124 calories. There are 2.6 grams of fat, 0.8 grams of saturated fat, 25 grams of protein and 64 mg of cholesterol in this serving. 
But with just 0.79 grams of saturated fat per serving, goat is a heart-healthy alternative to beef and chicken's 3.0 grams and 1.7 grams, respectively. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommends you eat less than 20 grams of saturated fat daily. A serving of goat meat contains about 4 percent of your daily value. Goat meat is a healthy alternative to beef and chicken because of its lower calorie, fat and cholesterol totals.