Red blood cells and white blood cells are, in essence, completely different. While both are necessary for the body's proper functioning, they each have singular roles. Red blood cells carry oxygen, while white cells do not, for example. Red blood cells in humans do not have nuclei, while white cells do. Red blood cells, also called erythrocytes, are responsible for the characteristic color of our blood. 
A low white blood cell count, or leukopenia, is a decrease in disease-fighting cells (leukocytes) circulating in your blood. The threshold for a low white blood cell count varies from one medical practice to another. Some healthy people have white cell counts that are lower than what's considered normal. A count lower than 4,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood is generally considered a low white blood cell count. The threshold for a low white blood cell count in children varies with age and sex. 1  Causes. 
Neutrophils are the commonest type of white blood cell found in a blood smear. They make up 60-70% of the total amount of white blood cells. Neutrophils have 3 types of granules: 1  azure granules (lysosomes), 2  secretory granules in salmon pink cytoplasm, anti-microbial enzymes. 3  have glycoproteins and gelatinase.
Lastet opp 23. jan. 2012. The white blood cells are an important part of our body's immune system. Neutrophils are a special group of white blood cells that play an extremely important role in protecting the body against infections. Mature neutrophils do not divide. 
White Blood Cells. White blood cells (WBCs), or leukocytes, are a part of the immune system and help our bodies fight infection. They circulate in the blood so that they can be transported to an area where an infection has developed. In a normal adult body there are 4,000 to 10,000 (average 7,000) WBCs per microliter of blood. When the number of WBCs in your blood increases, this is a sign of an infection somewhere in your body. Here are the six main types of WBCs and the average percentage of each type in the blood: 1  Neutrophils - 58 percent.
All the white blood cells are able to move like an amoeba, and can migrate out of blood vessels into the surrounding tissues. Note-it is easy to confuse the different leucocytes in blood smears. To identify them, you need to look for the shape of the nucleus, and compare their size, relative to that of a red blood cell. They make up 60-70% of the total amount of white blood cells. Neutrophils have 3 types of granules: 1  azure granules (lysosomes), 2  secretory granules in salmon pink cytoplasm, anti-microbial enzymes. 3  have glycoproteins and gelatinase.
White blood cells protect the body from infection. They are much fewer in number than red blood cells, accounting for about 1 percent of your blood. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count.
Neutrophils. They kill and digest bacteria and fungi. They are the most numerous type of white blood cell and your first line of defense when infection strikes. Basophils. These small cells appear to sound an alarm when infectious agents invade your blood. Types of white blood cells. Among your white blood cells are: Monocytes. They have a longer lifespan than many white blood cells and help to break down bacteria. Lymphocytes. They create antibodies to defend against bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful invaders.
White blood cells are produced inside the bone marrow and stored in your blood and lymphatic tissues. Because some white blood cells have a short lifespan of one to three days, your bone marrow is constantly producing them. Click to Enlarge. Types of white blood cells. Among your white blood cells are: Monocytes. They have a longer lifespan than many white blood cells and help to break down bacteria. Lymphocytes. They create antibodies to defend against bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful invaders.