6 tbsp white vinegar. 4 tbsp cornstarch. 1 (17.6-oz) container Greek yogurt. 3 tbsp Dijon mustard. 4 packets (14 g) calorie-free sweetener. 1 tsp salt. Directions: 1. Whisk together the cornstarch and white vinegar. 2. Add 2/3 cup of yogurt to the vinegar mix and whisk well. 3. Move the yogurt and vinegar mix into a pan and cook over high heat while constantly whisking the mixture, until it begins to boil. 4. After the mixture gets thick, put it into a food processor. Blend for 1 minute
1 Place garlic unpeeled in a dish with olive oil, microwave on high for 1 to 1-1/2 minutes until very soft. 2  Squeeze garlic from skin into a bowl; mash with a fork until smooth. 3  Add Greek yogurt, mayonnaise, Dijon mustard, lemon juice, salt and pepper. 4  Stir well until fully incorporated. 1 Squeeze garlic from skin into a bowl; mash with a fork until smooth. 2  Add Greek yogurt, mayonnaise, Dijon mustard, lemon juice, salt and pepper. 3  Stir well until fully incorporated. 4  Can be made ahead and refrigerated for up to three days
Directions. Combine white vinegar, Stevia, Dijon mustard and whisk until evenly mixed. Slowly add Greek yogurt and stir until well mixed. Salt and pepper to taste and mix well. Spread on a sandwich and enjoy! 
Often it's a combination of yogurt and mayonnaise... but you can leave the mayo out if you like. In less than 10 minutes, whip together a delicious dressing, spread or dip. 1  yogurt mayonnaise: 2 tablespoons = 45 calories. 2  regular mayonnaise: 2 tablespoons = 180 calories. 3  light mayonnaise: 2 tablespoons = 70 calories. Garlic: Add 1 small clove garlic, crushed, or to taste. Mix until smooth. Herb: To Garlic Yogurt Mayonnaise add 2 teaspoons minced chives, 1/2 teaspoon grated onion, 1/4 teaspoon each crushed dried basil, tarragon, dill, paprika and a dash curry powder.
Tip: To use as a spread, substitute 1 cup Greek yogurt or yogurt cheese for regular yogurt. 1  1 cup (250 ml) plain yogurt. 2  1 tablespoon (15 ml) prepared mustard. 3  2 teaspoons (10 ml) lemon juice. 4  1 teaspoon (5 ml) minced onion. 5  1 tablespoon (15 ml) fresh parsley leaves. 6  1/4 (1 ml) teaspoon basil. Garlic: Add 1 small clove garlic, crushed, or to taste. Mix until smooth. Herb: To Garlic Yogurt Mayonnaise add 2 teaspoons minced chives, 1/2 teaspoon grated onion, 1/4 teaspoon each crushed dried basil, tarragon, dill, paprika and a dash curry powder.
This spread is a perfect condiment for snacks and wraps when you're on the Total 10 Rapid Weight-Loss Plan. Greek yogurt is packed with protein and probiotics that aid digestion and keep you feeling full. With a hint of Dijon mustard, you'll get a boost of flavor, too! 
Greek Yogurt for Mayonnaise. It’s the oldest trick in the book, but that’s because it works! Even light mayonnaise still has over 3 times the calories and 11 times the fat of Greek yogurt. (You probably don’t want to know the comparison for the full-fat stuff!). 
Submitted by: NOTBLUSHING. Made with Greek Yogurt and spices found in mayo, this is a palatable and very healthy alternative. Easy to make and easy to adjust spices to suit taste. Made with Greek Yogurt and spices found in mayo, this is a palatable and very healthy alternative. Easy to make and easy to adjust spices to suit taste. 
Directions. 1  Place garlic unpeeled in a dish with olive oil, microwave on high for 1 to 1-1/2 minutes until very soft. 2  Squeeze garlic from skin into a bowl; mash with a fork until smooth. 3  Add Greek yogurt, mayonnaise, Dijon mustard, lemon juice, salt and pepper. 4  Stir well until fully incorporated. 1 Squeeze garlic from skin into a bowl; mash with a fork until smooth. 2  Add Greek yogurt, mayonnaise, Dijon mustard, lemon juice, salt and pepper. 3  Stir well until fully incorporated. 4  Can be made ahead and refrigerated for up to three days