1 Lymphatic System The lymphatic system comprises a network of lymphatic vessels, lymph nodes, and several other organs, distributed throughout the body as a network. 2  These structures collect fluid called lymph from the body and return it to the blood stream, thus maintaining the body’s fluid balance. The lymphatic system, on the other hand, is an organ system that functions through lymphatic vessels and structures. Furthermore, the lymphatic system is associated with the circulatory system, whereas the immune system is connected to the nervous system as well as the endocrine system.
Instructions. 1  Lymphatic System The lymphatic system comprises a network of lymphatic vessels, lymph nodes, and several other organs, distributed throughout the body as a network. 2  These structures collect fluid called lymph from the body and return it to the blood stream, thus maintaining the body’s fluid balance. The lymphatic system, on the other hand, is an organ system that functions through lymphatic vessels and structures. Furthermore, the lymphatic system is associated with the circulatory system, whereas the immune system is connected to the nervous system as well as the endocrine system.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
The lymphatic system is a network of tubes throughout the body that drains fluid (called lymph) from tissues and empties it back into the bloodstream. The main roles of the ly … mphatic system include managing the fluid levels in the body, filtering out bacteria, and housing types of white blood cells. The lymphatic system has 4 major functions. These functions include  removing interstitial fluid from tissues, transporting fatty acids  from the digestive system, transport … ing white blood cells into the  bones, and transporting dendritic cells to the lymph nodes.
1. Lymphatic System. The lymphatic system comprises a network of lymphatic vessels, lymph nodes, and several other organs, distributed throughout the body as a network. These structures collect fluid called lymph from the body and return it to the blood stream, thus maintaining the body’s fluid balance. The lymphatic system, on the other hand, is an organ system that functions through lymphatic vessels and structures. Furthermore, the lymphatic system is associated with the circulatory system, whereas the immune system is connected to the nervous system as well as the endocrine system.
Best Answer: The lymphatic system is a complex network of lymphoid organs, lymph nodes, lymph ducts, and lymph vessels that produce and transport lymph fluid from tissues to the circulatory system. The lymphatic system is a major component of the immune system. · just now. Report Abuse. The lymphatic system is a complex network of lymphoid organs, lymph nodes, lymph ducts, and lymph vessels that produce and transport lymph fluid from tissues to the circulatory system. The lymphatic system is a major component of the immune system.
The lymphatic system is part of the circulatory system and a vital part of the immune system, comprising a network of lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph (from Latin lympha meaning water) directionally towards the heart. Lymphocytes are concentrated in the lymph nodes. The spleen and the thymus are also lymphoid organs of the immune system. The tonsils are lymphoid organs that are also associated with the digestive system. Lymphoid tissues contain lymphocytes, and also contain other types of cells for support.
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs. The functions of this system include the absorbtion of excess fluid and its return to the blood stream, absorption of fat (in the villi of the small intestine) and the immune system function. Lymph vessels are closely associated with the circulatory system vessels.