Many of these lesions cause structural damage to the DNA molecule and can alter or eliminate the cell's ability to transcribe the gene that the affected DNA encodes. Other lesions induce potentially harmful mutations in the cell's genome, which affect the survival of its daughter cells after it undergoes mitosis. Moreover, DNA damaging agents can damage other biomolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and RNA. The accumulation of damage, to be specific, double-strand breaks or adducts stalling the replication forks, are among known stimulation signals for a global response to DNA damage.
The DNA repair ability of a cell is vital to the integrity of its genome and thus to the normal functionality of that organism. Many genes that were initially shown to influence life span have turned out to be involved in DNA damage repair and protection. Moreover, DNA damaging agents can damage other biomolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and RNA. The accumulation of damage, to be specific, double-strand breaks or adducts stalling the replication forks, are among known stimulation signals for a global response to DNA damage.
In contrast to DNA damage, a mutation is a change in the base sequence of the DNA. A mutation cannot be recognized by enzymes once the base change is present in both DNA strands, and, thus, a mutation cannot be repaired. Moreover, DNA damaging agents can damage other biomolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and RNA. The accumulation of damage, to be specific, double-strand breaks or adducts stalling the replication forks, are among known stimulation signals for a global response to DNA damage.
Reverse-transcribing RNA viruses, such as retroviruses, use the enzyme to reverse-transcribe their RNA genomes into DNA, which is then integrated into the host genome and replicated along with it. Reverse transcriptase enzymes include an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase and a DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, which work together to perform transcription. In addition to the transcription function, retroviral reverse transcriptases have a domain belonging to the RNase H family which is vital to their replication.
Best Answer: Denaturation is when a protein or nucleic acid loses some to all of its function. Usually, denaturation refers to enzymes (a type of protein). Enzymes can be denatured by factors like temperature and pH. Enzymes work at optimal conditions (certain temperatures, certain pH levels, etc.). If the temperature or pH is too high or low, the enzymes' shapes can change. Denaturation of a protein is when the structure of the protein is changed or destroyed. This is usually because of temperature or pH. Denaturation can never be reversed. jaymerr2001 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
(Redirected from Reverse transcription). A Reverse transcriptase (RT) is an enzyme used to generate complementary DNA (cDNA) from an RNA template, a process termed reverse transcription. Reverse transcriptase enzymes include an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase and a DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, which work together to perform transcription. In addition to the transcription function, retroviral reverse transcriptases have a domain belonging to the RNase H family which is vital to their replication.
Damage to DNA alters the spatial configuration of the helix, and such alterations can be detected by the cell. Once damage is localized, specific DNA repair molecules bind at or near the site of damage, inducing other molecules to bind and form a complex that enables the actual repair to take place. Moreover, DNA damaging agents can damage other biomolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and RNA. The accumulation of damage, to be specific, double-strand breaks or adducts stalling the replication forks, are among known stimulation signals for a global response to DNA damage.
Denaturation cannot always be reversed. In many proteins, denaturement can be reversed when the condition that is inhibiting the protein is removed (like if the temperature becomes favorable again). The protein will function normally again. Denaturation of a protein is when the structure of the protein is changed or destroyed. This is usually because of temperature or pH. Denaturation can never be reversed. jaymerr2001 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Feed Your Genes and Reverse DNA Damage! There is a natural order in life and in the body that starts with DNA. DNA contains all the instructions that transform us from a fertilized egg into a full human being. DNA-Enhancing Guidelines. There are a few DNA-enhancing guidelines we can follow to help “feed our genes right” and reverse DNA damage done: 1  Eat a nutrient-dense die t to make every bite count. 2  Eat a variety of fresh, whole foods.