As is well known, each CFA exam requires 300 hours of study. Three CFA exams therefore require 900 hours. If these hours are fitted in after work and at weekends, at a rate of 15 hours per week, that implies 60 weeks of study. 
Once you've made the decision to sit for the upcoming CFA exam, you need to develop a course of action. Here are some tips: Start Early. The CFA Institute estimates that at least 250 hours of independent study is necessary to pass each exam. In other words, a candidate starting six months before exam day should plan to spend no less than 10 hours a week studying. If you're a candidate in the CFA program or are planning to register, you need to plan in order to succeed. Organize your material, study effectively and review. In this way, you should be well on your way to passing each level of the CFA program on your first try.
Often people say that 300 hours should be enough, and that it marks the ideal amount of time for the CFA level 1 exam preparation process. While that can be true for the majority of candidates, the number of hours you need to prepare depends on your study materials – the curriculum, strategy elements you will use, etc. 
In a CFA Institute survey in for the June 2011 exam, candidates spent an average 302 hours preparing, with candidates that passed spending 313 hours compared to failing candidates that spend 292 hours on average. In fact, determined candidates have reported logging much, much more than 300 hours by exam day. Aim to start about 5/6 months before exam day at the latest. I generally recommend January if you're taking the June exams, and June if you're taking the December exams. Ease into it and slowly ramp up-remember the 300 hours rule-don't jump in all guns blazing or you'll burn out long before the exam arrives.
It’s become a cliche cliché to say that you need to study for 300 hours if you want to pass EACH cfa. Exam but’it s. True THE Cfa institute issued the following handy graphic after The june 2014 exams showing how long students had studied. For, anecdotally, however 300 hours may not be. enough “It is useless to try to pass any CFA in six months if you’re sleeping three hours a night and working 14 hours in M&A, weekends included,” says one banker who passed CFA Level I after setting aside 18 months to study.
The material in CFA Level 1 is not difficult to understand, but the difficulty is in the sheer volume of the material to understand and memorize. Some guides may tell you to target 250 hours, but on average this will not be enough. Aim to start about 5/6 months before exam day at the latest. I generally recommend January if you're taking the June exams, and June if you're taking the December exams. Ease into it and slowly ramp up-remember the 300 hours rule-don't jump in all guns blazing or you'll burn out long before the exam arrives.
You fail the CFA exams if you haven’t studied for at least 300 hours for each one. It’s become a cliche cliché to say that you need to study for 300 hours if you want to pass EACH cfa. Exam but’it s. True THE Cfa institute issued the following handy graphic after The june 2014 exams showing how long students had studied. for “It is useless to try to pass any CFA in six months if you’re sleeping three hours a night and working 14 hours in M&A, weekends included,” says one banker who passed CFA Level I after setting aside 18 months to study.
Is it really hard and... show more I have registered for June exam, level 1. Up till now I have studied 152 hours, and I'm planning to reach 290 hrs. However, since June is really close, I'm wondering if I have a chance to pass or not, specially that my teacher told me last week that we need to study 10 hours a day. Next.
According to the CFA Institute, the following is what a CFA candidate can expect: 1  An average of four years to complete the program. 2  Six months of preparation for each exam. 3  250 hours minimum of study time = 10 to hours per week. Using the 10-year average pass rates (2003-2012) of 38% for Level I, 43% for Level II, and 55% for Level III, and assuming that one cannot take the exam again after failure (which is not the case), the maximum chance of passing all three exams in a row is about 9.8%. But don't be discouraged.