Assault on a Police Officer. Assault on a police officer, or APO, is a criminal offense that can be charged as either a misdemeanor or felony, depending on the severity of the offense. DC assault on a police officer charges are prosecuted aggressively in the District of Columbia. As a felony, assault on a police officer is punishable by a maximum sentence of 10 years in jail and fines of up to $25,000.
An assault using ANY other kind of weapon (including kicking with your feet) is an Assault With A Weapon or Assault with a Deadly Weapon or Assault and Battery, is a felony because of the severe bodily harm that can from from it (this includes the area of trained martial artists and boxers). Aggravated assault is a felony in most, if not all states. Usually this crime is committed when a person threatens another with a weapon or an advantage of size or strength (i … n the latter case, for example, if the victim is a petite woman and the perp is a burly man). 31 people found this useful.
Assault is a misdemeanor punishable by one year imprisonment; assault with intent to have carnal knowledge of him or her or who indecently assaults another, or who commits other more-serious variants of assault (as defined in the Act) are guilty of a felony, and longer prison terms are provided for. It is both a crime and a tort and, therefore, may result in either criminal and/or civil liability. Generally, the common law definition is the same in criminal and tort law. There is, however, an additional criminal law category of assault consisting of an attempted but unsuccessful battery.
Assault in the first degree. (1) A person is guilty of assault in the first degree if he or she, with intent to inflict great bodily harm: (a) Assaults another with a firearm or any deadly weapon or by any force or means likely to produce great bodily harm or death; or. (b) Administers, exposes, or transmits to or causes to be taken by another, poison, the human immunodeficiency virus as defined in chapter 70.24 RCW, or any other destructive or noxious substance; or. (c) Assaults another and inflicts great bodily harm. (2) Assault in the first degree is a class A felony.
An assault is carried out by a threat of bodily harm coupled with an apparent, present ability to cause the harm. It is both a crime and a tort and, therefore, may result in either criminal and/or civil liability. Generally, the common law definition is the same in criminal and tort law. There is, however, an additional criminal law category of assault consisting of an attempted but unsuccessful battery.
(4) Burglary is a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided in s. 775.082, s. 775.083, or s. 775.084, if, in the course of committing the offense, the offender does not make an assault or battery and is not and does not become armed with a dangerous weapon or explosive, and the offender enters or remains in a: 
Any assault committed while armed with a weapon can be considered a felony offense on the face of it. However a simple assault (committed by a physical touching (i.e.: h … ands or fist) is customarily classifed as a misdemeanor, UNLESS, it is a continuous event and escalates into a merciless beating.. Aggravated assault is a felony in most, if not all states. Usually this crime is committed when a person threatens another with a weapon or an advantage of size or strength (i … n the latter case, for example, if the victim is a petite woman and the perp is a burly man). 31 people found this useful.
Aggravated Assault. Aggravated assault, a felony in Georgia, is an assault that is committed: 1  with the intent to rob, rape or murder. 2  with a deadly weapon or any object that can be or is used in a manner that results in serious bodily injury or strangulation, or. 3  by discharging a firearm from a vehicle. Aggravated battery is a felony in Georgia, and occurs if the offender intentionally inflicts a serious injury to the victim, such as loss of a limb, loss of use of a limb, or serious disfigurement.