If you think you can sue a school, or you are involved in a lawsuit against a school, it is highly recommended for you to contact an attorney. Only they will be able to explain the issues, protect your rights, and defend you if necessary. Consult a Lawyer-Present Your Case Now! 
Suing a school district may not be the most common way to resolve an issue with school administrators, but it is a course of action school employees, parents and families can take under certain circumstances. 
“It’s April,” she said she told them. “I will find someone for you to take my child’s spot.” The school told her that was not how things were done. Then, in September, Mandell sued. For most parents, getting their child into a private school is a moment of joy, or at least relief. 
In most cases, educational decisions are to be mutually agreed on if the parents share joint legal custody. In situations where one parent has sole legal custody, he or she can make decisions about school issues without consulting the other parent. Generally, where a child will attend school is determined by where the residential parent lives. In cases where the parents have joint physical custody, you can read through this discussion about school decisions and shared custody. These are just general guidelines and many parents have questions about their rights when it comes to school issues after divorce.
She was all set for the dance, having bought the tickets, the dress, and everything else, when her date backed out earlier this week. Now, she's being told by the Archdiocese that's in charge of her school, Archbishop John Carroll High School, that she is not allowed to attend the dance without a date. Being a teen is hard enough without being shamed by your school for not having a date to a dance, but that's what's happening to one girl in Glenolden, Pennsylvania. Amanda Dougherty, 17, has been looking forward to her junior prom for years.
1 of 8. 8 photos: You can't wear that to the prom. You can't wear that to the prom – Brittany Minder was sent home from the 2013 Central Kitsap High School prom in Silverdale, Washington, because her dress did not cover her cleavage. She and her parents feel she was singled out by school administrators because she has a naturally large chest. 8 photos: You can't wear that to the prom. You can't wear that to the prom – Omar Bonilla ran for prom queen at Flanagan High in Pembroke Pines, Florida, in 2010. He was ranked in the top three finalists, but school officials told Bonilla he couldn't wear a gown to the prom because they worried for his safety.
Question: My mom lives in a different county than myself and my daughter,I would like my mother to take temporary guardianship of my daughter for the purpose of enrolling her in school in the county that my mother lives in.Can she do that. Question: How do I get proction for my grandchilden when my son girl freind can provide a home for them. Son is in jail. we have guardianship of there first child do to drug abuse by monther. She is now living with a cousin and her family along with her sister and there family in one home.
8 photos: You can't wear that to the prom. You can't wear that to the prom – Constance McMillen, seen here at the 21st Annual GLAAD Media Awards in 2010, wanted to take her girlfriend to the Itawamba Agricultural High School prom in Fulton, Mississippi, and she wanted to wear a tux to the dance. 8 photos: You can't wear that to the prom. You can't wear that to the prom – Omar Bonilla ran for prom queen at Flanagan High in Pembroke Pines, Florida, in 2010. He was ranked in the top three finalists, but school officials told Bonilla he couldn't wear a gown to the prom because they worried for his safety.