Shopping for pet sitting: 1  Some sitters offer rates on a sliding scale: the more visits per day, the smaller the daily fee. 2  For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40. 1 Sitters often charge the same rate for two cats, and charge extra for a third or more. 2  For example, Prairieville, Louisiana's Geaux Sit Stay charges $5 more per visit for three or more cats. 3  Some sitters charge extra for administering medicine. 4  The fee is about $5 to $10 per pill, ointment application or injection.
$75 per overnight at your home. The overnight pet and house sitting service includes a pet sitter staying in your home from at least 7:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m. as well as a midday break. If you were to schedule 3 pet sitting visits per day at $19 per visit, you would pay $57 per day. For an additional $31 ($57 + $18 = $75), your critters spend at least 12½ hours with the pet sitter. 1  Availability is limited. 2  There is a $10.00 per visit fee during holiday periods. 3  See below for additional holiday fee details.
1 The going rate for house sitters can vary, depending on what geographical area the home is located in. 2  Consider the duties, responsibilities and tasks required of the house sitter. 3  A house sitter who is required to perform lawn maintenance or provide pet care is going to earn more than one that simply takes in the mail. For house sitters who simply stop by to take in the mail and water the plants, the going rate is $5 to $10 per day or more, depending on how long it takes to complete the house sitting tasks.
Your chosen sitter may include a number of house-sitting tasks as well. After all, it makes more sense to have one person take care of everything than to hire both a pet sitter and a house sitter while you're away. Average pet-sitting rates vary between $10 and $20 per visit. That said, it's hard to come up with an across-the-board average when so many different factors determine the actual price
Jobs that require the pet sitter to stay at your residence overnight, for example, can cost anywhere from $40 to $80, but prices generally fall right in the middle of that range [source: Sitters City ]. Unfortunately, the biggest factor in determining your pet sitter's rates is out of your control: It's where you live. After all, it makes more sense to have one person take care of everything than to hire both a pet sitter and a house sitter while you're away. Average pet-sitting rates vary between $10 and $20 per visit.
To determine how much to pay a house sitter: 1  Consider the going rate for house sitters in the area where the home is located. 2  The going rate for house sitters can vary, depending on what geographical area the home is located in. 3  Consider the duties, responsibilities and tasks required of the house sitter. For house sitters who simply stop by to take in the mail and water the plants, the going rate is $5 to $10 per day or more, depending on how long it takes to complete the house sitting tasks.
Average House Sitting Salaries. The average salary for house sitting jobs is $58,000. Average house sitting salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term house sitting anywhere in the job listing.
1 Pet sitting costs $10-$65 per day, depending on the location, length of the visit and number of sitter's duties. 2  A 15-minute visit, during which the sitter would refill food bowls and tend to the pets' bathroom needs, costs $10-$18. 1 Sitters often charge the same rate for two cats, and charge extra for a third or more. 2  For example, Prairieville, Louisiana's Geaux Sit Stay charges $5 more per visit for three or more cats. 3  Some sitters charge extra for administering medicine. 4  The fee is about $5 to $10 per pill, ointment application or injection.
1 Some sitters offer rates on a sliding scale: the more visits per day, the smaller the daily fee. 2  For example, Boise Pet Care in Idaho offers a minimum of two visits per day for dogs at $30, while four visits per day cost $40. 1 Sitters often charge the same rate for two cats, and charge extra for a third or more. 2  For example, Prairieville, Louisiana's Geaux Sit Stay charges $5 more per visit for three or more cats. 3  Some sitters charge extra for administering medicine. 4  The fee is about $5 to $10 per pill, ointment application or injection.