Igneous, Sedimentary, and Metamorphic Rocks. The three types of rocks igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic are all subject to processes that change one rock type into another. The images below show several types of rocks undergoing these processes. Just as evaporation and precipitation are processes that move water through the water cycle, igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rock-forming processes move rocks through the rock cycle. In this investigation, you ll examine a detailed example of a rock traveling through the rock cycle
A few gemstones form in the mantle, but all gems are mined in the crust. The crust is made up of three kinds of rock, known in geology as igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rock. These technical terms refer to the way in which the rock is formed. Some gemstones are associated with one kind of rock in particular; others with several types. Igneous rock can change into sedimentary or metamorphic rock. Moreover, sedimentary rock can change into metamorphic or igneous rock. Furthermore, metamorphic rock can change into igneous or sedimentary rock. But you have to be patient.
Sedimentary rocks are formed by the lithification of the sediments  which accumulate from the erosion of … preexisting rocks of all  types. They also included rocks form from animal and plant remains.   Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are  heated and or squashed. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  Top 5 Sedimentary Structures of Geology Sedimentary structures can be found inside of sedimentary rock
Gemstones associated with metamorphic rock include beryl, jade, lapis lazuli, turquoise, spinel, ruby, sapphire and zircon. Rocks and minerals are in a constant state of change, which is referred to as the rock cycle. Igneous rock can change into sedimentary or metamorphic rock. Moreover, sedimentary rock can change into metamorphic or igneous rock. Furthermore, metamorphic rock can change into igneous or sedimentary rock. But you have to be patient.
Diamonds are found in igneous rock which is brought to the surface of the earth by volcanic eruptions bringing magma to the surface. Diamond itself is strictly an allotrope of the element carbon, a mineral, one form of crystal that can be created from carbon. They also included rocks form from animal and plant remains.   Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are  heated and or squashed. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
A diamond is a crystalline mineral form of the element carbon.  Igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary are descriptive terms used to  classify types of rocks, not minerals su … ch as diamond.     Diamond is accepted as a valid mineral by the International  Mineralogy Association. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the lithification of the sediments  which accumulate from the erosion of … preexisting rocks of all  types. They also included rocks form from animal and plant remains.   Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are  heated and or squashed. Answered.
Igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary are descriptive terms used to classify types of rocks, not minerals such as diamond. Diamond is accepted as a valid mineral by the International Mineralogy Association. They also included rocks form from animal and plant remains.   Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are  heated and or squashed. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
However, the diamond itself is a metamorphic  mineral, as it forms under heat and pressure from solid-state  processes. It forms independently of the igneous rock in which it  is found, qualifying it as a type of xenocryst. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the lithification of the sediments  which accumulate from the erosion of … preexisting rocks of all  types. They also included rocks form from animal and plant remains.   Metamorphic rocks are formed when sedimentary or igneous rocks are  heated and or squashed. Answered.
Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) exposed at the Earth's surface can become a sedimentary rock. The forces of wind, rain, snow, and ice combine to break down or dissolve (weather), and carry away (transport) rocks exposed at the surface. 