IN THIS ARTICLE. 1  What is hemoglobin? 2  How is hemoglobin measured? 3  What are normal hemoglobin values? 4  What does low hemoglobin mean? 5  What does high hemoglobin mean? 6  What is anemia and what are its symptoms? 7  What is sickle cell disease? 8  What is thalassemia? 9  What is the hemoglobin A1c test? 10  Hemoglobin Levels Topic Guide. Another term frequently used in place of low hemoglobin is anemia, or the person is described as being anemic. Some of the more common causes of anemia are as follows: 1  Nutritional (iron, folic acid, or vitamin B 12 deficiency [ pernicious anemia ]).
Low hemoglobin with low RBC count and low hematocrit indicates anemia. Some causes include: 1  Excessive loss of blood from, for example, severe trauma or chronic bleeding from sites such as the digestive tract (e.g., ulcers, polyps, colon cancer), the bladder or uterus (in women, heavy menstrual bleeding, for example). The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: 1  Weakness or fatigue.
Low hemoglobin means that a person's hemoglobin level when measured, is below the lowest limits of normal for their age and sex (see above normal range of values). For example, a 19 year old male would have low hemoglobin if the detected blood value was below 13.6 g/dl. Another term frequently used in place of low hemoglobin is anemia, or the person is described as being anemic. Some of the more common causes of anemia are as follows: 1  Nutritional (iron, folic acid, or vitamin B 12 deficiency [ pernicious anemia ]).
High hemoglobin with a high RBC count and high hematocrit indicates polycythemia. Some causes include: 1  Lung (pulmonary) disease —if someone is unable to breathe in and absorb sufficient oxygen, the body tries to compensate by producing more red blood cells. The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: 1  Weakness or fatigue.
Hemoglobin is a protein inside red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. A hemoglobin test reveals how much hemoglobin is in a person's blood, helping to diagnose and monitor anemia and polycythemia vera. hemoglobin (Hb, Hgb) test, a blood test that measures the total amount of hemoglobin in the peripheral blood, which reflects the number of red blood cells in the blood. The test is normally performed as part of a complete blood count.
Definition. A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen to your body's organs and tissues and transports carbon dioxide from your organs and tissues back to your lungs. If a hemoglobin test reveals that your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, it means you have a low red blood cell count (anemia). Anemia can have many different causes, including vitamin deficiencies, bleeding and chronic disease
Hemoglobin in the urine is termed hemoglobinuria. Hemoglobin is the protein in the red blood cells which carries oxygen from the lungs to the tissues of the body and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues to the lungs. The iron contained in hemoglobin gives red blood cells their characteristic color. 
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: 1  Weakness or fatigue.
Definition. A high hemoglobin count indicates an above-average concentration of the oxygen-carrying protein hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin (Hg or Hgb) is the main component of red blood cells. Hemoglobin count-also referred to as hemoglobin level-indicates your blood's oxygen-carrying capacity. A high hemoglobin count is somewhat different from a high red blood cell count, because each cell may not have the same amount of hemoglobin proteins. The threshold for a high hemoglobin count is slightly different from one medical practice to another. It's generally defined as more than 17.5 grams (g) of hemoglobin per deciliter (dL) of blood for men and 15.5 g/dL for women. In children, the definition of a high hemoglobin count varies with age and sex.
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells.