1 The cost of replacing a fan motor comprises of the cost of fan, the fan blade, the capacitor, the contractor (if you need one), cleaning the condensing coil, cleaning the evaporator coil, adjusting Freon levels, repairing electrical connections, and replacing the air filter. The fan motor for your AC unit is an integral part of the air conditioning system. Without the fan motor, the fan would not spin. This means that the cold air produced by the air conditioning unit would not be propelled out of the unit and into the home or building.
Parts: $162 - $275. The average cost for a radiator fan motor replacement is between $273 to $416. Labor costs are estimated between $111 to $141 while parts are priced between $162 to $275. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
Air Conditioner Fan Motor Replacement Cost. It appears that the motor that spins the fan in the air conditioner died last night. I cannot spin the fan blades and the motor makes a loud buzzing sound when turned on and the blades do not move at all and the motor is very hot and smells like it burnt out. I am 95% sure that this is the only problem with the unit. Well, I had the unit looked at and the fan motor is bad and needs to be replaced, but the guy said he thinks that the motor is going to cost about $500 before labor. He is going to look up the price when he gets back to the shop but I cannot believe that it costs that much.
The problem with that is you can be penny wise and pound foolish. A bad fan motor could end up shortening the life of your AC Compressor. Replacing an fan motor may run between $400 - $500. But it sure beats replacing an AC Compressor which runs in a range of $1000-$2000. Obviously, it takes a well trained technician to be able to correctly diagnose the problem, know how to install it, and can test the new part or system to make sure it works properly. 
1 However, if you want to do the job yourself, the costs for the fan motor itself will usually be between $50 and $200. 2  For example, users on DSLReports.com said that a DIY job will cost around $75. 3  If the professionals are brought in, plan on spending around $300 to $500. The fan motor for your AC unit is an integral part of the air conditioning system. Without the fan motor, the fan would not spin. This means that the cold air produced by the air conditioning unit would not be propelled out of the unit and into the home or building.
Replacing the motor without the same specs can cause higher utility cost and a shorter life span of the air conditioning system. Also replace the run capacitor when you replace the condenser fan motor. The average cost to replace the condenser fan more can range from $350 to $575. 2) The Condenser fan relay is bad. New condensers have a relay they turn the motor on and off when the system starts and turns off. The cost to replace a condenser fan relay can range from $175 to $275 the cost depends more on the make and model of the unit and the contractor installing the part.
1 Replacing the fan motor for your AC unit professionally for an existing air conditioning unit can cost anywhere from $300 to $600 depending on the model of the fan motor. 2  This will include checking the kind of unit, the voltage, the phase and the running load current to make sure that the fan motor does not fail. The fan motor for your AC unit is an integral part of the air conditioning system. Without the fan motor, the fan would not spin. This means that the cold air produced by the air conditioning unit would not be propelled out of the unit and into the home or building.
The run capacitor gives the motor a jump start every time it starts. The cost to replace a run capacitor for a condenser fan motor from an HVAC contractor can range from $150 to $275 depending on the size and the labor need to install the part. 2) The Condenser fan relay is bad. New condensers have a relay they turn the motor on and off when the system starts and turns off. The cost to replace a condenser fan relay can range from $175 to $275 the cost depends more on the make and model of the unit and the contractor installing the part.