CHARACTERISTICS: Streptococcus pyogenes is an aerobic, gram-positive extracellular bacterium. It is made up of non-motile, non-sporing cocci that are less then 2 µm in length and that form chains and large colonies greater then 0.5 mm in size. 
strep·to·coc·ci. A term used to refer to any member of the genus Streptococcus. /Strep·to·coc·cus/ (-kok´us) a genus of gram-positive, facultatively anaerobic cocci occurring in pairs or chains; it is separable into the pyogenic group, the viridans group, the enterococcus group, and the lactic group. A genus of nonmotile (with few exceptions), non-spore-forming, aerobic to facultatively anaerobic bacteria (family Lactobacillaceae) containing gram-positive, spheric or ovoid cells that occur in pairs or in short or long chains. Dextrorotatory lactic acid is the main product of carbohydrate fermentation
A total of 21 isolates were recovered, 13 anaerobic and 8 aerobic or facultatives. The facultative organism Streptococcus pyogenes was present alone in two (25%) instances, and mixed aerobic and anaerobic bacteria were isolated in six (75%). The predominant isolates were Peptostreptococcus spp. (6 isolates, including 3 Peptostreptococcus magnus)
Anaerobic infections are caused by anaerobic bacteria. Anaerobic bacteria do not grow on solid media in room air (0.04% carbon dioxide and 21% oxygen); facultative anaerobic bacteria can grow in the presence as well as in the absence of air. Mixed infections caused by numerous aerobic and anaerobic bacteria are often observed in clinical situations. Anaerobic bacteria are a common cause of infections, some of which can be serious and life-threatening.
Streptococcus pyogenes. Introduction. Streptococcus pyogenes is a gram positive bacteria. It is a cocci or sphere shaped bacterium that does not produce spores. It reproduces by asexual reproduction along a central axis creating either pairs of bacterium or long chains depending on culture media. The most common infection from Streptococcus pyogenes is impetigo, a superficial cutaneous infection common to children characterized by crusty legions and vesicles surrounded by a red border. Erysipelas-an acute infection and inflammation of the dermal layer of the skin.
Characteristically, Streptococcus pyogenes is a Gram-positive facultative anaerobic bacterium. It is not motile, and does not produce spores. It occurs as long chains of cocci, and occasionally in pairs. Streptococcus pyogenes is classified as Group A streptococcus. Cellulitus is an inflammation of the skin and deep tissues that can be caused by Streptococcus pyogenes. Cellulitus begins when Streptococcus pyogenes infects the site of a minor injury, such as a bruise, burn, or wound. It causes the skin to turn red, widespread pain, swelling, and tenderness of the infected area.
Streptococcus pyogenes Suzanne Hagen Streptococcus pyogenes is the microbe behind the rare disease, necrotizing fasciitis. These Gram positive bacteria, which are also the cause of strep throat, are found in a cocci arrangement of long bead like chains. Streptococci are non-spore forming and non-motile, and are capable of forming capsules and slime layers. They are facultative anaerobes that ferment a variety of sugar
The Streptococcus species are clustered into four groups: pyogenic, oral, anaerobic and other. Pyogenic streptococci are pathogens that are associated with pus formation. Most of these species are Beta hemolytic and Streptococcus pyogenes is part of this group. Oral streptococci inhabit the oral cavity and upper respiratory tract of humans and other animals, but other than habitat are not simliar. The most common infection from Streptococcus pyogenes is impetigo, a superficial cutaneous infection common to children characterized by crusty legions and vesicles surrounded by a red border. Erysipelas-an acute infection and inflammation of the dermal layer of the skin.
Streptococcus pyogenes is not a bacteria that should be taken lightly. Many people carry the bacteria without incident, however it has the potential to cause both mild and severe diseases. Streptococcus pyogenes has claimed many lives, including that of Muppet's creator, Jim Henson. Cellulitus is an inflammation of the skin and deep tissues that can be caused by Streptococcus pyogenes. Cellulitus begins when Streptococcus pyogenes infects the site of a minor injury, such as a bruise, burn, or wound. It causes the skin to turn red, widespread pain, swelling, and tenderness of the infected area.