A test for lactic acid is done to: 1  Check for lactic acidosis. 2  Symptoms of lactic acidosis include rapid breathing, excessive sweating, cool and clammy skin, sweet-smelling breath, belly pain, nausea or vomiting, confusion, and coma. 3  See whether the right amount of oxygen is reaching the body's tissues. 1 This makes the veins below the band larger so it is easier to put a needle into the vein. 2  An elastic band may not be used for a lactic acid test because a band around the arm muscle may cause a false increase in lactic acid. 3  Clean the needle site with alcohol. 4  Put the
Lactic acidosis is a type of acidosis that occurs when the blood becomes too acidic due to the presence of excess lactic acid in the body. Blood pH is tightly controlled because even slight changes in your pH can have severe effects on many organs. Normally, your blood is slightly basic, or alkaline. Acidosis occurs when the blood becomes more acidic than normal. Lactic acid is created when structures in the cells called mitochondria respond to high-energy demands in cases of relatively low oxygen levels. Medical conditions that can cause lactic acidosis include severe infections, kidney or liver disease, respiratory disease, heart disease, seizures, shock, cancer, severe anemia, and diabetes.
When the oxygen level is low, carbohydrate breaks down for energy and makes lactic acid. Lactic acid levels get higher when strenuous exercise or other conditions-such as heart failure, a severe infection (sepsis), or shock-lower the flow of blood and oxygen throughout the body. 1 This makes the veins below the band larger so it is easier to put a needle into the vein. 2  An elastic band may not be used for a lactic acid test because a band around the arm muscle may cause a false increase in lactic acid. 3  Clean the needle site with alcohol. 4  Put the
1 This base helps to keep the blood neutral. 2  Both diarrhea and vomiting can cause this type of acidosis. 3  Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 4  Many things can cause a buildup of lactic acid. Acidosis occurs when your kidneys and lungs can’t keep your body’s pH in balance. There are two types of acidosis--metabolic and respiratory. Metabolic acidosis occurs when your kidneys can’t get rid of acid buildup or when your body gets rid of too much base. Bases neutralize acids, and vice versa.
Approach Considerations. Treatment is directed towards correcting the underlying cause of lactic acidosis and optimizing tissue oxygen delivery by cardiopulmonary support. Evidence so far indicates that alkali therapy is not beneficial; it may, in fact, cause harm by worsening intracellular acidosis. Hemodialysis. Dialysis may be a useful mode of therapy when severe lactic acidosis exists in conjunction with renal failure or congestive heart failure. Dialysis would allow bicarbonate infusion without precipitating or worsening fluid overload. Therefore, dialysis would correct acidosis by restoring the buffer pool.
The main treatment for lactic acidosis is to correct the underlying problem that led to it. If lactic acid production can be slowed down, it is more likely that its clearance will be able to keep up with its production. 
1 Both diarrhea and vomiting can cause this type of acidosis. 2  Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 3  Many things can cause a buildup of lactic acid. 4  These include chronic alcohol use, heart failure, cancer, seizures, liver failure, prolonged lack of oxygen, and low blood sugar. Acidosis occurs when your kidneys and lungs can’t keep your body’s pH in balance. There are two types of acidosis--metabolic and respiratory. Metabolic acidosis occurs when your kidneys can’t get rid of acid buildup or when your body gets rid of too much base. Bases neutralize acids, and vice versa.
1 Lactic acidosis occurs when there is too much lactic acid in your body. 2  Many things can cause a buildup of lactic acid. 3  These include chronic alcohol use, heart failure, cancer, seizures, liver failure, prolonged lack of oxygen, and low blood sugar. Acidosis occurs when your kidneys and lungs can’t keep your body’s pH in balance. There are two types of acidosis--metabolic and respiratory. Metabolic acidosis occurs when your kidneys can’t get rid of acid buildup or when your body gets rid of too much base. Bases neutralize acids, and vice versa.