· just now. Report Abuse. My breeding finches usually hatch their eggs on the 14th day after incubation has started. Since the hen will lay eggs around two days apart, they will often wait until the whole clutch is layed before they start to sit on them, so that the babies all hatch at the same time. macawlover3 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Tip: Hatching Finch Eggs. They should hatch at around 14 days. But only when you start counting the time after the last egg is laid and when mom finch starts sitting on them. The countdown of when they will hatch does not commence at laying but at the beginning of incubation. Question: Caring for Finch Eggs and Chicks. I have a pair of zebra finches. Two weeks ago they laid 9 eggs in a period of 4-5 days out of which 5 were fertile. Yesterday two of the eggs hatched, but the parents didn't seem to be feeding them properly so I hand fed them this morning.
Usually around 14 days of incubation, but a general range can span 12-18 days. Note that incubation does not begin until the parents start sitting, which frequently will not happen until the 3rd or 4th egg is laid, or sometimes the entire clutch. It totally depends on your species of finch. It can range anywhere from 20 days to 28 days.
The days until the egg vary on when the parents begin incubation. I have had breed zebra finches before, and once the parents begin sitting on the eggs they hatch between 12-15 days. Below is a list of the number of days for different breeds of finches. Note that incubation does not begin until the parents start sitting, which frequently will not happen until the 3rd or 4th egg is laid, or sometimes the entire clutch. It totally depends on your species of finch. It can range anywhere from 20 days to 28 days.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It takes 14-16 days for a Zebra Finch egg to hatch! But remember it is not till the bird has laid it full clutch(5-6 eggs) as she will not start to brood till the last egg is laid. Always have a good supply of soaked sprouting seed available for the parents to feed the young. Report Abuse. my eggs have just hatched it took 10 days i think all finches are different my eggs didn't turn blue either so i just keep checking a couple of times a day to make sure i know what is happening. gemma482406 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up
After the last egg is laid, incubation begins. The female zebra finch incubates her eggs while the male zebra finch takes over every once in a while to give the female time to stretch, rest, eat, and drink. The eggs will start hatching about thirteen days after incubation. Zebra finches can lay a maximum of eight eggs, but usually have 2 to 5 eggs in their nests. When the eggs hatch it is time to feed your nesting finches with rearing / nestling food – a very crucial stage – which provides them with enough supplements. 
i hand feed all my baby finches.. the parents only like to incubate after that i have to do the rest.. it's alot of work and you must have the time to do it.. i have Zebra finches there eggs take 12 days to hatch and the chicks are flying in 3 weeks. i have Society finches to but only 2 males .... 
This varies somewhat depending on the type of finch. Usually around 14 days of incubation, but a general range can span 12-18 days. Note that incubation does not begin until the parents start sitting, which frequently will not happen until the 3rd or 4th egg is laid, or sometimes the entire clutch. How can I tell if the eggs my finch laid are fertile? At first, fertile and infertile eggs will look the same. After about 4-7 days from the last egg being laid, you can candle an egg (using an egg candler or a small flashlight) to tell whether or not it is fertile.
Answers. Best Answer: I have zebra finch eggs right now. :) Zebra finch eggs usually take 12-14 days to hatch (and that is a fact) from the day the parents start to incubate the eggs. So when you notice that one of the parents is always in the nest, count 12 days from that day. 