The thermal hydrolysis is part of a wastewater treatment plant as a pre-treatment prior to digestion. The Cambi thermal hydrolysis process disintegrates the cellular structure of the bacteria in bio-sludge by solubilizing exopolymers (proteins protecting the bacteria), producing an easily digestible product. The use of Cambi thermal hydrolysis achieves the following: A medium-scale sludge treatment center: The case of Lindum (Norway). Cambi hydrolysis system for medium capacities (15-40 dry tonnes per day) is based on 6 m 3 reactors. The system is modular, permitting its expansion up to
THP is a high-pressure steam pre-treatment for anaerobic digestion of municipal and industrial sludge and bio-waste. Applying THP technology results in doubled digester loading, increased biogas production, and a pathogen-free and stabilized biosolids product with increased cake dewaterability. - Reduced viscosity from thermal hydrolysis (making the sludge more fluid). – Digesters can be fed with a sludge concentration of 8-12% dry solids (DS), twice that of a conventional digester. – Increased speed of digestion.
Thermal Hydrolysis Process (THP) is a proven and reliable technology that has been used around the world since 1995 in existing and “green field” projects to reduce both disposal quantities and the cost of building and operating digesters. - Reduced viscosity from thermal hydrolysis (making the sludge more fluid). – Digesters can be fed with a sludge concentration of 8-12% dry solids (DS), twice that of a conventional digester. – Increased speed of digestion.
Description [edit]. Thermal hydrolysis is a two-stage process combining high-pressure boiling of waste or sludge followed by a rapid decompression. This combined action sterilizes the sludge and makes it more biodegradable, which improves digestion performance. The city of Oslo, Norway installed a system for converting domestic food waste to fuel in 2012. A thermal hydrolysis system produces biogas from the food waste, which provides fuel for the city bus system and is also used for agricultural fertilizer.
A key element of the process is the CAMBI Thermal Hydrolysis Plant (THP), a technology developed in Norway that will condition the sludge with high temperature and pressure prior to digestion. The THP process will double the digester throughout and greatly increase gas production. 
A water firm is installing industrial-scale pressure cookers to enhance its vast poo power programme. Thermal hydrolysis process (THP) plants are effectively pressure-cookers that condition sludge, the leftover solids from wastewater treatment, by heating it up to around 160 degrees Celsius. Thames Water will be installing the new THP plants at Beckton and Riverside sewage works in Essex, Crossness in Thamesmead, Longreach in Barking, Oxford and Crawley sewage works by 2015.
Cambi will construct a new Thermal Hydrolysis Process (THP) plant in the city of Hengelo, the Netherlands. The Cambi THP sludge pre-treatment will approximately double the capacity of the existing egg-shaped digesters from 9,000 to 18,000 ton sludge per year. “ One of the world's largest facilities in Davyhulme is proving the importance of thermal hydrolysis technology combined with digestion prior to sludge incineration. Bill Barber, Rick Lancaster and Harald Kleiven discuss reasons for the technology choice and results from an energy study measuring inputs and outputs.
Thermal hydrolysis “Steam Explosion” process. The thermal hydrolysis process (THP) patented by Cambi AS is a pre-treatment of sludge combined with anaerobic digestion. Cambi THP works by dissolving and disintegrating sludge using pressure and temperature. The use of Cambi thermal hydrolysis achieves the following: A medium-scale sludge treatment center: The case of Lindum (Norway). Cambi hydrolysis system for medium capacities (15-40 dry tonnes per day) is based on 6 m 3 reactors. The system is modular, permitting its expansion up to
Cambi’s patented Thermal Hydrolysis Process (CambiTHP™) is a proven and reliable technology that has been used around the world since 1995. CambiTHP™ has... [ Continue Reading 1  ]. Cambi SolidStream™. 