Henry Parkes. Image courtesy of Government Printing Office Collection, State Library of New South Wales. Henry Parkes (1815–1896) is often called the 'Father of Federation' for his role as a long-time agitator for the cause. Parkes was five times the Premier of NSW and one of the most prominent men in colonial politics. 
Sir Henry Parkes, GCMG (27 May 1815 – 27 April 1896) was an Australian politician and businessman who served as a Premier of New South Wales. He has been referred to as the Father of Federation, as he was one of the most influential advocates of the Federation of Australia. 
Sir Henry Parkes is considered to be the Father of Australian  Federation. Parkes was first elected to the New South Wales  Parliament in 1854, and was Premier of New South … Wales several  times between 1872 and 1891. Sir Henry Parkes had 17 children in his life, along with 3 wives.  His children's names were Varney, Cobden, Mary, Thomas, Clarinda,  Mary, Milton, Lily, Aurora, Clarinda, S … ydney, Gertrude, Annie,  Lily, Henry, Lily, Kenilworth and Robert.
Sir Henry Parkes is considered to be the Father of Australian  Federation. Parkes was first elected to the New South Wales  Parliament in 1854, and was Premier of New South … Wales several  times between 1872 and 1891. Sir Henry Parkes was most famous for the fact that he pushed so strongly for the Federation of the Australian colonies. He first elected to the New South Wales Parliament in … 1854, and was Premier of New South Wales several
Sir Henry Parkes. The Australian statesman Sir Henry Parkes (1815-1896) was a champion of Australian federation, and his eloquent appeals to colonial leaders to forget their differences were a potent influence in bringing success to the federal movement. Sir Henry Parkes, 1815–96, Australian political leader, b. England. He emigrated to Australia in 1839 and later founded a newspaper, the Empire, to advocate responsible government and an end to the transporting of criminals to Australia.
Sir Henry Parkes' role in federation was to make it a popular cause amongst Australians. Parkes was born in England in 1815 and migrated to New South Wales in 1839. He became politically active early in his life in Australia, his first major concern being to stop the transportation of convicts from Britain. While Federation was an idea that had lots of popular support amongst Australians, there were a few individuals whose contributions to the movement stood out. Four of these individuals were Sir Henry Parkes, Sir Edmund Barton, Alfred Deakin and George Reid.
National Library of Australia, nla.pic-an23351399. Sir Henry Parkes (1815-1896), politician and journalist, was born on 27 May 1815 in Warwickshire, England, youngest of the seven children of Thomas Parks, tenant farmer on Stoneleigh Abbey Estate, and his wife Martha, nee Née. faulconbridge
Sir Henry Parkes. Henry Parkes 7 is often called the 'Father of Federation' because of his role as a long-time campaigner for the Federation of Australia.8. His role in Federation was to make it a popular cause amongst Australians. Henry Parkes was born in England in 1815 and travelled to New South Wales in 1839. He became politically active early in his life in Australia, his first major worry being to cease the transportation of convicts from Britain. 
Sir Henry Parkes was most famous for the fact that he pushed so strongly for the Federation of the Australian colonies. He first elected to the New South Wales Parliament in … 1854, and was Premier of New South Wales several times between 1872 and 1891. Sir Henry Parkes had 17 children in his life, along with 3 wives.  His children's names were Varney, Cobden, Mary, Thomas, Clarinda,  Mary, Milton, Lily, Aurora, Clarinda, S … ydney, Gertrude, Annie,  Lily, Henry, Lily, Kenilworth and Robert.
Sir Henry Parkes is considered to be the Father of Australian Federation. Parkes was first elected to the New South Wales Parliament in 1854, and was Premier of New South Wa … les several times between 1872 and 1891. Sir Henry Parkes was most famous for the fact that he pushed so strongly for the Federation of the Australian colonies. He first elected to the New South Wales Parliament in … 1854, and was Premier of New South Wa