Skyrim: Northwind Mine (Word of Power: Seek of the Aura Whisper Shout). The Northwind Mine is south south east of windhelm and north north west of Riften: Northwind Mine. There are only 3 or 4 skeletons in the Northwind Mine. There is a trap after you have climbed the wooden assembly. It is at the first bent of the cave. The trap drops stones.
Northwind Summit is a Dragon Location in Eastern Skyrim. You can find it by traveling North of Riften or South of Windhelm and can be reached via Northwind Mine. 
Interior Edit. From the entrance, the mine leads north to a room with wooden ramps and several skeletons. A chest with random loot is up the first ramp to the left (west). On a table to the right is the skill book Death Blow of Abernanit. A second ramp leas up to the north, then west, then south. Trivia Edit. 1  The Iron ore veins will be replaced with ebony ore veins if the Unofficial Skyrim Patch version 1.2.6 or higer is installed. 2  This is because the residents of Shor's Stone refer to Redbelly Mine as an iron mine, so, the ore was switched from the two locations.
This section contains bugs related to Northwind Mine (Skyrim). Before adding a bug to this list, consider the following: 1  Please reload an old save to confirm if the bug is still happening. Trivia Edit. 1  The Iron ore veins will be replaced with ebony ore veins if the Unofficial Skyrim Patch version 1.2.6 or higer is installed. 2  This is because the residents of Shor's Stone refer to Redbelly Mine as an iron mine, so, the ore was switched from the two locations.
1 This bug is fixed by version 2.0.3 of the Unofficial Skyrim Patch. 2  Northwind Mine isn't marked as a cave, so cave-based radiant quests won't target it. 3  This bug is fixed by version 1.3.3 of the Unofficial Skyrim Patch. 1 This bug is fixed by version 1.0 of the Unofficial Skyrim Patch. 2  If you fast travel to the mine entrance, followers may spawn with their feet encased in rock. 3  This bug is fixed by version 1.2.6
For this location in Online, see Northwind Mine (Online). Northwind Mine is a mine in The Rift. Found on the northern side of the mountain range north and slightly west of Riften, the entrance is located east of Mistwatch, northwest of Shor's Stone, and west-southwest of Cragslane Cavern. Trivia Edit. 1  The Iron ore veins will be replaced with ebony ore veins if the Unofficial Skyrim Patch version 1.2.6 or higer is installed. 2  This is because the residents of Shor's Stone refer to Redbelly Mine as an iron mine, so, the ore was switched from the two locations.
Overview. Northwind Mine is a mine located in South Eastern Skyrim. You can find it by traveling North West of Riften. This mine leads to Northwind Summit. 
Northwind Mine is a small iron mine on the northern side of Northwind Summit. To find the mine, start from Shor's Stone and follow the path north out of the settlement. After passing Shor's Watchtower on the right, a set of steps will be seen on the left. Follow the path up the steps to the entrance of the mine. 1 This bug is fixed by version 1.0 of the Unofficial Skyrim Patch. 2  If you fast travel to the mine entrance, followers may spawn with their feet encased in rock. 3  This bug is fixed by version 1.2.6
Northwind Summit is a mountaintop dragon lair on the border between Eastmarch and the Rift. It is located a short distance northwest of Shor's Stone, northwest of Riften and far south of Windhelm, on the highest point in the Rift. Northwind Summit [edit]. The summit is an abandoned mammoth hunter's camp with three dilapidated structures and mammoth skeletons. The word wall for the Aura Whisper shout is against the mountain, with the boss chest located just in front.
To access the summit, you can travel through Northwind Mine, found on the northern side of the mountain, or climb to it, starting at Shor's Stone and heading just a little ways south down the path until you see a slightly gentler slope of mountain to the right. Northwind Summit [edit]. The summit is an abandoned mammoth hunter's camp with three dilapidated structures and mammoth skeletons. The word wall for the Aura Whisper shout is against the mountain, with the boss chest located just in front.