Monocytes are a type of white blood cell which circulate in the blood. The CAE virus cannot replicate inside a monocyte but its genome (called a provirus) is carried to all tissues of the body without being detected by the immune system. When a monocyte migrates to body tissues it matures into a macrophage. The CAE virus will know that it is near a monocyte or macrophage because the envelope protein on the surface of the virus will fit only with a cell surface protein that exists only on goat (and sheep) monocyte/ macrophage cells.
As the cell surface is cleared from viral proteins, internalization might offer protection against antibody-dependent cell lysis. Here, the internalization and subsequent trafficking of the antigen-antibody complexes were characterized using biochemical, cell biological and genetic approaches. These findings indicate that the viral antigen-antibody complexes were not internalized through any of the previously described pathways. Further characterization showed that this internalization process was independent from phosphatases and tyrosine kinases but did depend on serine/threonine kinases.
Surface-expressed viral proteins in feline infectious peritonitis virus-infected monocytes are internalized through a clathrin-and caveolae-independent pathway. Dewerchin HL, Cornelissen E, Van Hamme E, Smits K, Verhasselt B, Nauwynck HJ. Laboratory of Virology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Belgium. These findings indicate that the viral antigen-antibody complexes were not internalized through any of the previously described pathways. Further characterization showed that this internalization process was independent from phosphatases and tyrosine kinases but did depend on serine/threonine kinases.
Infection with feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIPV), a feline coronavirus, frequently leads to death in spite of a strong humoral immune response. In previous work, we reported that infected monocytes, the in vivo target cells of FIPV, express viral proteins in their plasma membranes. These proteins are quickly internalized upon binding of antibodies. These findings indicate that the viral antigen-antibody complexes were not internalized through any of the previously described pathways. Further characterization showed that this internalization process was independent from phosphatases and tyrosine kinases but did depend on serine/threonine kinases.
All these results support the importance of the sequences present in both UTRs in the replication of DEN. The replication process in several RNA viruses requires a secondary or tertiary structure located within (+) and (-) 3′ and 5′UTRs and also cellular and viral proteins. The synthesis of plus and minus RNA strands of several RNA viruses requires as a first step the interaction of some viral regulatory sequences with cellular and viral proteins. The dengue 4 virus genome, a single-stranded, positive-polarity RNA, is flanked by two untranslated regions (UTR) located in the 5′ and 3′ ends. The 3′UTR in the minus-strand RNA [3′UTR (−)] has been thought to function as a promoter for the synthesis of plus-strand RNA
Cellular proteins that bind the DEN4 virus 3′UTR (−). To identify the proteins that bind to the 3′UTR (−) of DEN4 virus, labeled RNA consisting of nt 101 to 1 was incubated with S10 extracts from uninfected and infected U937 cells, followed by UV-induced cross-linking. The synthesis of plus and minus RNA strands of several RNA viruses requires as a first step the interaction of some viral regulatory sequences with cellular and viral proteins. The dengue 4 virus genome, a single-stranded, positive-polarity RNA, is flanked by two untranslated regions (UTR) located in the 5′ and 3′ ends. The 3′UTR in the minus-strand RNA [3′UTR (−)] has been thought to function as a promoter for the synthesis of plus-strand RNA
The VP40 matrix protein is a necessary for virion egress, and can actually form virus-like particles that bud from the cell surface in the absence of all other viral proteins (Fig 19). This process is mediated by viral L-domains in the N-terminus of the protein that interact with host factors such as Nedd4 and Tsg101. VP30 is assumed to be a transcription activation factor that is essential for the viral life cycle. While the mechanism is not completely understood, it is suggested that this protein is involved in initiation because VP30-dependent transcription is regulated by RNA of the first transcription start signal.
The virus first binds to a surface molecule of a monocyte/macrophage using the envelope protein. Cells have many kinds of proteins on their surface which they use for their normal activities. Viruses exploit these receptors to gain entrance to the cell. The CAE virus will know that it is near a monocyte or macrophage because the envelope protein on the surface of the virus will fit only with a cell surface protein that exists only on goat (and sheep) monocyte/ macrophage cells.