Everyone heals from total knee replacement surgery at a different pace. In most cases, however, you will likely use a walker or crutches for 2 to 4 weeks after your operation. You will then advance to a cane and wean to no assistive device at all. You will gradually return to normal function without any assistive devices. In general, most patients are close to full recovery after 3 months. When you can return to work after total knee replacement surgery depends on your profession. If your work is sedentary, you may return as early as 2 to 4 weeks post-operatively. If your work is more rigorous, you may require up to 3 months before you can return to full duty. In some cases, more time may be necessary
After hip-replacement surgery, you will need a high toilet seat for about three months. If needed, you will also be taught by the occupational therapist to use adaptive equipment to help you with lower body dressing and bathing. You might also benefit from a bath seat or grab bars in the bathroom. Yes. In the first several days or weeks after surgery, depending on your progress, you will need someone to assist you with meal preparation, housekeeping, etc. Family members or friends must be available to help.
Most hip-replacement patients are hospitalized for three to four days after surgery. If you need more time for rehabilitation, other options might be available to you. Make arrangements before your surgery to have someone stay with you after you are discharged. Yes. In the first several days or weeks after surgery, depending on your progress, you will need someone to assist you with meal preparation, housekeeping, etc. Family members or friends must be available to help.
Most surgeons allow patients to drive at 4 to 6 weeks after surgery, and sometimes sooner if the operative leg is the left leg. There is some literature that states that your reaction time will not be back to normal prior to 6 weeks. You should not drive while on narcotics. Most people are walking with the assistance of a walker on the day after surgery, and using a cane or nothing at all by 2-3 weeks. Most surgeons do not like the wound to be exposed to water for 5-7 days; however, more surgeons are using waterproof dressings that allow patients to shower the day after surgery.
You will usually be in hospital for around three to five days. If you are generally fit and well, the surgeon may suggest an enhanced recovery programme, where you start walking on the day of the operation and are discharged within one to three days. If you are younger, you may need another new hip at some point. Revision surgery is more complicated and time-consuming for the surgeon to perform than a first hip replacement and complication rates are usually higher. It cannot be performed in every patient.
About six to eight weeks after surgery, you'll have a follow-up appointment with your surgeon to make sure your hip is healing properly. If recovery is progressing well, most people resume their normal activities by this time — even if in a limited fashion. 
You will usually be in hospital for three to five days, depending on what progress you make and what type of knee replacement you have. Patients who have a half knee replacement usually have a shorter hospital stay. 
You will likely stay in the hospital for 1-3 days depending on your rehabilitation protocol and how fast you progress with physical therapy. This is highly dependent upon your condition before surgery, your age, and medical problems which can hinder your rehabilitation. Most people are walking with the assistance of a walker on the day after surgery, and using a cane or nothing at all by 2-3 weeks. Most surgeons do not like the wound to be exposed to water for 5-7 days; however, more surgeons are using waterproof dressings that allow patients to shower the day after surgery.
Usually, people do not spend more than 3 to 5 days in the hospital after hip replacement surgery. Full recovery from the surgery takes about 3 to 6 months, depending on the type of surgery, your overall health, and the success of your rehabilitation. It is important to get instructions from your doctor before leaving the hospital and to follow them carefully once you get home.