From the English word grace, which ultimately derives from Latin gratia. This was one of the virtue names created in the 17th century by the Puritans. The actress Grace Kelly (1929-1982) was a famous bearer. 
Origin of the name Grace: Inspired by grace (eloquence or beauty of form, kindness, mercy, favor), which is derived from the Latin gratia (favor, thanks). The name was made popular by 17th-century Puritans, who bestowed it in reference to God's favor and love toward mankind. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Grace : | Edit. Meanings of the name Grace. Latin: Grace. American: Grace. English: God's Favor. Fact: From the word 'grace', derived from the Latin 'gratia', meaning God's favor.
American Meaning: The name Grace is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Grace is: Grace. English Meaning: The name Grace is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Grace is: From the word 'grace', derived from the Latin 'gratia', meaning God's favor. Famous bearer: American actress Grace Kelly became Princess Grace of Monaco. Irish Meaning:
The name Grace is in the following categories: American Names, Australian Names, British Names, Celebrity Names, Celtic Names, Christian Names, Classic Names, English Names, Middle Names, Movie Star Names, New Zealand Names, Popular Names, Virtue Names. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Grace are: 1  American meaning: Beauty of form. 2  Latin meaning: Grace of God.
About the name Grace. The meaning of the name Grace: Charm. The origin of the name Grace: Latin. Alternate spellings: Gracia. People who like the name Grace also like: Ava, Olivia, Emma, Sophia, Charlotte, Isabella, Ella. Noah, Liam, Ethan, Benjamin, Jacob, Jack, Jackson. Notes: Grace is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Grace is charm. It was first created as a reference to the “grace of God.” Alternate spellings of the name Grace include Grace, Grayse, Gracia, and Graciella. Common nicknames of the name Grace include Gracie, Gray,and Gigi. Famous Graces include actress Grace Kelly, Princess of Monaco. 
Additional information: Grace is a feminine English name derived from the Latin gratia, meaning ‘gracious’. Originally a virtue name created by the Puritans, the name Grace has a lot more modernity than names such as Clemency and Illumination – other more modern virtue names are Faith, Verity, and Amity. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Grace are: 1  American meaning: Beauty of form. 2  Latin meaning: Grace of God.
Grace /gra-ce/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced grayce. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Grace is favor; blessing . A virtue name referring to God 's grace. Greek mythology: the Three Graces were goddesses of nature: Aglaia (brillance), Thalia (flowering), and Euphrosyne (joy). Actress and princess Grace Kelly; singer Grace Jones; choreographer Graciela Daniele. Grace is a very popular first name for women (#114 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#1200 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Grace for girls.