Yes, mortgage loan origination fees are tax deductible in most cases. There are some rules, though, in applying tax deduction. To itemize deductions, it is recommended you use the services of a certified accountant. If you obtained a mortgage to buy your primary residence, your loan origination points are tax-deductible for the year the purchase was made and only if the cash you contributed to the loan is greater than what you paid in origination points.
...Or Later. Points you can't deduct this year have to be written off over the life of the loan. Suppose you pay $7,200 in deductible loan origination fees on a 30-year loan. To figure your annual deduction, divide up the points by the 360 monthly payments, which gives you $20 per payment. When you make 12 payments in a year, you get to write off $240 of loan origination fees. Loan origination fees come in two flavors. Some lenders use the term for closing costs such as appraisal fees, title fees, legal expenses and prepaid property taxes, none of which is deductible. You only get a deduction when the fees -- also called maximum loan charges or discount points -- represent prepaid interest.
3. Deduct the points over the life of the loan if you cannot meet all of the requirements to deduct them immediately. If your loan is for 30 years then you can deduct 1/30th of the points each year on your taxes. Typically you must deduct the points on a refinance mortgage over the life of the loan unless part of the refinance proceeds are used to improve the main home. The IRS allows deduction of mortgage points. Your lender is not keeping score when he mentions point, or 1 percent of your loan amount. A point can be classified as an origination point or discount point. You pay origination points directly to the mortgage originator for obtaining the financing. Borrowers pay discount points to the mortgage lender as prepaid interest to buy down the interest rate over the life of the loan
When most people buy a home, they generally obtain a mortgage. Mortgages have costs and one of those costs is the loan origination fee.. The loan origination fee is usually a percentage of the loan amount, generally expressed as points.. For example, one point on a $150,000 loan would be $1500. One and a half points on the same loan amount would be $2250. On VA and FHA loans, points are often broken down into two categories: loan origination fee (which is usually one point) and discount points (which are also a percentage of the loan balance). Both are deductible.
Points are prepaid interest and may be deductible as home mortgage interest, if you itemize deductions on Form 1040, Schedule A (PDF). If you can deduct all of the interest on your mortgage, you may be able to deduct all of the points paid on the mortgage. You can deduct the rest of the points over the life of the loan. Points charged for specific services, such as preparation costs for a mortgage note, appraisal fees, or notary fees are not interest and cannot be deducted.
However, if your mortgage was a refinance loan, you must typically spread the deductions over the life of the loan. For example, if your origination fees equal $4,500 for a 30-year loan, you can deduct $150 each year for the next 30 years. Unlike loan origination fees, most other fees you pay at the closing of a mortgage loan are nondeductible. Nondeductible closing expenses include appraisal fees, title insurance and attorney fees. However, you can deduct any prepaid interest you pay at closing.
Points also may be called loan origination fees, maximum loan charges, loan discount, or discount points. A borrower is treated as paying any points that a home seller pays for the borrower's mortgage. General rule. You cannot deduct the full amount of points in the year paid. 
Loan origination and discount points are both tax-deductible, as well as interest and property taxes. If loan origination points were high but you didn't pay other closing costs (e.g. escrow account setup fee, home appraisal and attorney fees, etc.), the loan origination fee is not tax deductible. To be tax deductible, it has to be clearly stated in points on top of the GFE and cannot pay for other items. If you obtained a mortgage to buy your primary residence, your loan origination points are tax-deductible for the year the purchase was made and only if the cash you contributed to the loan is greater than what you paid in origination points.