The main function of mitochondria is the production of energy during the production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) via the TCA Cycle (which is also as the Krebs Cycle and the Citric Acid Cycle). That process is an important metabolic pathway (see also what is metabolism).
have a cell nucleus or any membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria. That is, neither the DNA of prokaryotic cells nor any of the sites of metabolic activity within a prokaryotic cell are collected together in a discrete membrane-enclosed area.
Prokaryotic ribosomes are smaller and have a slightly different shape and composition than those found in eukaryotic cells. Bacterial ribosomes, for instance, have about half of the amount of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and one third fewer ribosomal proteins (53 vs. ~83) than eukaryotic ribosomes have.
Some prokaryotic cells also have other structures like the cell wall, pili (singular pillus), and flagella (singular flagellum). Each of these structures and cellular components plays a critical role in the growth, survival, and reproduction of prokaryotic cells. Prokaryotic cells can have multiple plasma membranes.
All prokaryotic cells contain large quantities of genetic material in the form of DNA and RNA. Because prokaryotic cells, by definition, do not have a nucleus, the single large circular strand of DNA containing most of the genes needed for cell growth, survival, and reproduction is found in the cytoplasm.
Eukaryotic cells, while very similar in function to prokaryotic cells, are much larger and more complex. They are typically characterized by the presense of a prominent, more or less central nucleus. Viewed through a light microscope, this nucleus is by far the most striking visible feature of the cell.
1 , which performs the function of photosynthesis. 2  Chloroplasts are double-membrane-bound, like mitochondria. 3  Also like mitochondria, their inner membrane is very complicated. 4  In fact, it's formed into many thylakoid structures which perform the same function performed by the thylakoids in prokaryotic cells.
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival.