Norovirus may have a prolonged infection period that starts even before a patient gets sick. There is a short lag or incubation period (up to two days) between the time that people acquire the virus and the time they get symptoms. People may be contagious during this period. All people are contagious while they are having symptoms
The Incubation Period for Norovirus. The incubation period for an infection from norovirus typically take place throughout a time frame of 48 to 72 hours from the initial infection. Norovirus is known as a small virus that’s highly contagious when spread between humans. It’s mainly acquired through ingesting material or being exposed to material that’s been contaminated by the virus during a short period of time.
The noroviruses starts to multiply within small intestine once an individual get the infection. The symptoms of the infection will occur usually after 24-48 hours after the infection. And the norovirus incubation period is between the transmission of the norovirus and the early time of the symptoms appear. In the other words, we can say that the incubation period of the infection is usually about 12-hours (less or more) after exposure. He or she usually will become contagious after the symptoms of the infection occur or about 2-3 days after the infection. Even, in a few cases, person with infection begin become contagious for about 7-14 days after recovery.
Signs and symptoms usually begin 24 to 48 hours after first exposure to the virus, and last one to three days. You may continue to shed virus in your feces for up to three days after recovery. Some people with norovirus infection may show no signs or symptoms. 
A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. The contagious period — the time during which a sick person can give the illness to others — is slightly different for each virus. 1  Norovirus. 2  With norovirus — the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults and children — you're contagious from the moment you begin to feel ill. 1 Norovirus. 2  With norovirus — the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults and children — you're contagious from the moment you begin to feel ill. 3  Symptoms usually appear within one to two days of exposure.
Although the most contagious period is over when the patient's symptoms resolve, even some people who appear to have recovered completely after a norovirus infection may continue to shed the virus for weeks in their stool and may be a source of infection to others. There is a short lag or incubation period (up to two days) between the time that people acquire the virus and the time they get symptoms.
When a person becomes infected with a norovirus, the virus begins to multiply within the small intestine. After approximately 1 to 2 days, norovirus symptoms can begin. This period between the norovirus transmission and the start of symptoms is the  norovirus incubation period .. In some cases, the norovirus incubation period can be as short as 12 hours.
A person is not usually contagious during the norovirus incubation period. People infected with norovirus are usually contagious from the moment they begin feeling ill to at least 3 days after recovery. Some people may be contagious for as long as 2 weeks after recovery. After approximately 1 to 2 days, norovirus symptoms can appear. This period between the norovirus transmission and the start of norovirus symptoms is known as the norovirus incubation period..
Norovirus Incubation Period: A Summary. When a person becomes infected with norovirus, the virus begins to multiply within the small intestine. After approximately 1 to 2 days, norovirus symptoms can appear. This period between the norovirus transmission and the start of norovirus symptoms is known as the norovirus incubation period..
What is the incubation period of the stomach flu (norovirus and others)? Answer: The incubation period of the stomach flu is usually about 48 hours but it can vary. It generally takes about 48 hours from the time you swallow the virus (norovirus or others) to the time when you start to feel sick1. However, it can easily be less time or more time. Answer: The incubation period of the stomach flu is usually about 48 hours but it can vary. My sister has 5 children. They caught the stomach flu from relative they saw on Christmas day (Friday, December 25, 2009). My sister's first child got sick on Sunday night, 2 others on Monday night, and a 4th on Tuesday.