A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants (plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms). The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs. The primary purpose of a flower is reproduction. Since the flowers are the reproductive organs of plant, they mediate the joining of the sperm, contained within pollen, to the ovules — contained in the ovary. Pollination is the movement of pollen from the anthers to the stigma.
If you are getting married, it is a good idea to research the meaning of the flowers you want. 1  Roses are the most popular flower choice for the bride, but different coloured roses convey different meanings: 2  White stands for innocence, purity, beauty and charm; 3  Red stands for passion and fiery love; Giving flowers, whatever the occasion, signifies your feelings and your feelings towards the person you are giving the flowers to. Flowers can also indicate the person's character. When you are giving someone flowers you should consider what the flowers mean.
Stems. Stems do many things. They support the plant. They act like the plant's plumbing system, conducting water and nutrients from the roots and food in the form of glucose from the leaves to other plant parts. Stems can be herbaceous like the bendable stem of a daisy or woody like the trunk of an oak tree. 
May 12, 2012 by: Dictionary.com 64 Comments. Like precious stones and tarot cards, flowers have a secret meaning that only some understand. Different flowers represent sorrow, repentance, unrequited love, or beauty. Here are some of the most popular Mother’s Day flowers and their associated meanings. Learn what these flowers mean–and which ones to avoid! Daffodil is the common English name of the flower otherwise known as Narcissus, after the Ancient Greek myth. Daffodil is a variation of the scientific name of the flower, Asphodel. They signify respect and admiration
In Divination the following meanings are attached to the flowers indicated. Where you see VLoF it means Victorian, Language of Flowers which was a system used in Victorian times to send messages with flowers. I have also listed specific Romany (Gypsy) interpretations. 
Chrysanthemum: The national symbol of Japan, 'mums are a symbol for long life. Carnation: A symbol of betrothal or engagement. In China, a carnation is a symbol of marriage. Daisy: The most basic of flowers, a white daisy is a symbol of innocence. Honeysuckle: A less-common symbol of love. Also of generosity.
Flowers are a part of the most important occasions in our lives. They are conspicuously present on birthdays, funerals, graduation, weddings, etc. forming an integral part of our lives. Some flowers have religious significance too. It is impossible for any person to be completely unaware of flower meanings. Everyone knows that a red rose stands for romantic love and that one does not send yellow roses to anyone in mourning. However, meanings are associated not only with roses but also with other flowers. Most people do not consider flower meanings before gifting flowers. Similarly, people who receive flowers may not know their meaning and hence miss the underlying message. 
Four-leafed clovers represent luck. Daisy: The most basic of flowers, a white daisy is a symbol of innocence. (Free daisy stencil). Deadly nightshade: A highly poisonous plant (Atropa belladonna) with purple bell flowers and small black berries. A symbol of deception, danger, and death. 
A flower is a part of a plant. Flowers are also called the bloom or blossom of a plant. The flower grows on a stalk – a thin node – which supports it. Flowers have petals. Inside the part of the flower that has petals are the parts which produce pollen and seeds.