[ 2 syll. ja-zmi-ne, jaz-m- ine ] The baby girl name Jazmine is pronounced as JH AE ZMihN †. Jazmine is used mostly in the English language and it is of Old Persian origin. Jazmine is a variant spelling of the English and French name Jasmine. Jazmine is rather popular as a baby girl name. The name rose in popularity from the 1980s up to the 1990s; prior to that, it was of sporadic use only. Its usage peaked modestly in 1994 with 0.078% of baby girls being given the name Jazmine. 
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. View the Jazmine Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jazmine has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jazmine to other names. Jazmine is a variant spelling of Jasmine.
The name Jazmine is of Persian origin, and it means Jasmine Flower . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
The name Jazmine is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Jazmine is: A flower name from the older form Jessamine. French Meaning: The name Jazmine is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Jazmine is: A flower name from the older form Jessamine. American Meaning: The name Jazmine is an American baby name.
The meaning of Jazmine has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Jazmine are: 1  Persian-Iranian meaning: Jasmine. Form of: Jasmine. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jazmine and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jazmine and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds
What does Jazmine mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Jazmine is of Persian origin. The meaning of Jazmine is jasmine flower, a climbing plant with fragrant flowers. View the Jazmine Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jazmine has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jazmine to other names. Jazmine is a variant spelling of Jasmine.
Jazmine /ja-z-mi-ne/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Old French and Persian origin, and the meaning of the name Jazmine is jasmine. Jazmine is an alternate form of Jasmine (Old French, Persian). Jamin is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Jacmine, Jaczmine, Jazmini. 
Jazmine is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jaz-mine. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 443 in baby name popularity for girls with 722 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Jazmine Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jazmine has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jazmine to other names. Jazmine is a variant spelling of Jasmine.
Jasmine. Jasmine /jas-mine/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced JAZ-min, jaz-MEEN. It is of Old French and Persian origin, and the meaning of Jasmine is jasmine. Refers to the climbing plant with delicate, fragrant flowers, which derives from Yasmin. The name was made popular by character Princess Jasmine in the film Aladdin (1990). The name is popular among Hispanic and African American families. 