Aspirin has also become increasingly popular as an anti-platelet-used to prevent blood clot formation-in long-term low doses to prevent heart attacks and strokes in high risk patients. Nowadays, aspirin is often given to patients immediately after a heart attack to prevent recurrence or cardiac tissue death. Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is a derivative of salicylate, which can be found in such plants as willow trees and myrtle. Aspirin is one of the most commonly used drugs for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, as well as migraines and fever. For the treatment of moderate to severe pain it is frequently used along with other opioid analgesic and other non-steroidal-anti-inflammatory drugs
Aspirin is also used long-term, at low doses, to help prevent heart attacks, strokes, and blood clot formation in people at high risk of developing blood clots. Low doses of aspirin may be given immediately after a heart attack to reduce the risk of another heart attack or of the death of cardiac tissue. While daily aspirin can help prevent a clot-related stroke, it may increase risk of a bleeding stroke (hemorrhagic stroke). In children and adolescents, aspirin is not recommended for flu-like symptoms or viral illnesses, because of the risk of Reye's syndrome.
Aspirin, or acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) is a salicylate drug, and is generally used as an analgesic (something that relieves pain without producing anesthesia or loss of consciousness) for minor aches and pains, to reduce fever (an antipyretic), and also as an anti-inflammatory drug. Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is a derivative of salicylate, which can be found in such plants as willow trees and myrtle. Aspirin is one of the most commonly used drugs for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, as well as migraines and fever. For the treatment of moderate to severe pain it is frequently used along with other opioid analgesic and other non-steroidal-anti-inflammatory drugs
Aspirin is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). NSAIDs are medications with analgesic, antipyretic (something that reduces a fever), and in higher doses anti-inflammatory effects. Non-steroidal means they are not steroids, which often have similar effects. Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is a derivative of salicylate, which can be found in such plants as willow trees and myrtle. Aspirin is one of the most commonly used drugs for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, as well as migraines and fever. For the treatment of moderate to severe pain it is frequently used along with other opioid analgesic and other non-steroidal-anti-inflammatory drug
Aspirin is used to treat mild to moderate pain, and also to reduce fever or inflammation. Aspirin can sometimes be used to treat or prevent heart attacks, strokes, and angina. Your doctor may prescribe aspirin for other purposes also. Side effects of aspirin include dizziness, upset stomach, heartburn, and bleeding. A: Aspirin is commonly used as a blood thinner in patients with risk factors for cardiovascular events such as heart attack and stroke. Mitral valve prolapse occurs when the valve between your heart's left upper chamber (left atrium) and the left lower chamber (left ventricle) doesn't close properly.
Aspirin is medication used to treat fever, pain, and inflammation in the body. It also prevents blood clots, stroke, chest pain, and heart attack in certain people. This drug comes in an over-the-counter (OTC) and prescription form, in a variety of brand names, and is also found in many combination products. A: Aspirin is commonly used as a blood thinner in patients with risk factors for cardiovascular events such as heart attack and stroke. Mitral valve prolapse occurs when the valve between your heart's left upper chamber (left atrium) and the left lower chamber (left ventricle) doesn't close properly.
It works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain, fever, and inflammation. Aspirin is used to treat mild to moderate pain, and also to reduce fever or inflammation. Aspirin is sometimes used to treat or prevent heart attacks, strokes, and chest pain (angina). Aspirin should be used for cardiovascular conditions only under the supervision of a doctor. Aspirin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Aspirin, also known as acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is a salicylate medication, often used to treat pain, fever, and inflammation. Aspirin also has an antiplatelet effect by stopping the binding together of platelets and preventing a patch over damaged walls of blood vessels. While daily aspirin can help prevent a clot-related stroke, it may increase risk of a bleeding stroke (hemorrhagic stroke). In children and adolescents, aspirin is not recommended for flu-like symptoms or viral illnesses, because of the risk of Reye's syndrome.
FACT: Daily use of aspirin is not right for everyone. Aspirin has been shown to be helpful when used daily to lower the risk of heart attack, clot-related strokes and other blood flow problems in patients who have cardiovascular disease or who have already had a heart attack or stroke. Many medical professionals prescribe aspirin for these uses. Aspirin use can result in serious side effects, such as stomach bleeding, bleeding in the brain, kidney failure, and some kinds of strokes. No medicine is completely safe. By carefully reviewing many different factors, your health professional can help you make the best choice for you.