palatine nerve, anterior, palatine nerve, greater origin, pterygopalatine ganglion; branches, posterior inferior (lateral) nasal branches; distribution, emerges through the greater palatine foramen and supplies the palate; modality, parasympathetic, sympathetic, and general sensory. a macroscopic cordlike structure of the body, comprising a collection of nerve fibers that convey impulses between a part of the central nervous system and some other body region. For a complete list of the named nerves of the body, see Table 14.
As a noun, it refers to destruction or wreckage. As a verb, it means to wreck. It is now mostly an archaic word, preserved mainly in a few common phrases. Rack has many definitions, but the one that makes it easily confused with wrack is to torture. Rack [one’s] brain. Rack [one’s] brain is one common phrase in which rack in the torture-related sense is figuratively extended. To rack one’s brain is to torture it or to stretch it by thinking very hard. To wrack one’s brain would be to wreck it.
The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
nerve-racking adjective. › Something that is nerve-racking is ​difficult to do and ​causes a lot of ​worry for the ​person ​involved in it: My ​wedding was the most nerve-racking thing I've ​ever ​experienced. nerve-racking adjective [not gradable]. › ​difficult to do and causing a lot of ​worry or ​anxiety: I had to go out and ​find a new ​job, which is always a nerve-racking ​experience. (Definition of nerve-racking from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press)
This is the British English definition of nerve-wracking. View American English definition of nerve-wracking. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for nerve-wracking. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
Causing stress or anxiety: his driving test was a nerve-racking ordeal. More example sentences. 1  They will talk of prisons in Greece, of frightful justice systems, and of a nerve-racking ordeal which the enthusiast is never likely to forget. 2  Postponing a scheduled surgical procedure ratchets up stress in an already nerve-racking event. 1 Postponing a scheduled surgical procedure ratchets up stress in an already nerve-racking event. 2  This was a nerve-wracking ordeal for me as Tony's bungalow was one of the few on the mine where the windows were not netted in.
1 They will talk of prisons in Greece, of frightful justice systems, and of a nerve-racking ordeal which the enthusiast is never likely to forget. 2  Postponing a scheduled surgical procedure ratchets up stress in an already nerve-racking event. 1 Postponing a scheduled surgical procedure ratchets up stress in an already nerve-racking event. 2  This was a nerve-wracking ordeal for me as Tony's bungalow was one of the few on the mine where the windows were not netted in.
Nerve-racking. In the phrasal adjective nerve-racking, rack is again used in the sense meaning to torture. Something that is nerve-racking tortures the nerves or figuratively stretches them. Wrack, again, makes some sense, though. We can think of nerve-wracking as meaning wrecking the nerves instead of torturing the nerves, in which case the spelling is perfectly justifiable. Rack [one’s] brain. Rack [one’s] brain is one common phrase in which rack in the torture-related sense is figuratively extended. To rack one’s brain is to torture it or to stretch it by thinking very hard. To wrack one’s brain would be to wreck it.