Thai Baht (THB) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion Calculator. This currency convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 18, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Thai Baht and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Thai Onshore Baht (THB) is the everyday currency used to purchase goods and services in Thailand. The Thai government has put restrictions on currency trading with other countries to limit currency speculation. The Thai Baht is the currency in Thailand (TH, THA). The Thai Baht is also known as Bahts, and Onshore Baht. The symbol for THB can be written Bht, Bt, and ฿.
A currency (from Middle English: curraunt, in circulation, from Latin: currens, -entis) in the most specific use of the word refers to money in any form when in actual use or circulation as a medium of exchange, especially circulating banknotes and coins. 
The offshore Baht is taxed by the Thai government. Calculator for Thai Offshore Baht (THO) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion. Thai Baht (THB) and Thai Offshore Baht (THO) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion Calculator. The Thai Baht is the currency in Thailand (TH, THA). The Thai Baht is also known as Bahts, and Onshore Baht. The symbol for THB can be written Bht, Bt, and ฿.
Bahamas, Dollar. The Bahamian Dollar is the currency of Bahamas. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Bahamas Dollar exchange rate is the USD to BSD rate. The currency code for Dollars is BSD, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Bahamian Dollar rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take BSD rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website.
The currency in Thailand is called the 'Thai Baht' (pronounced 'bought' or 'bot'). 
Answer: The currency in Thailand is called the Thai baht and is usually represented by a capitalized B with a slash through it. Over the past decade, the baht has fluctuated somewhere between 30 baht per dollar and 42 baht per dollar. In Thailand there are 1 baht, 2 baht, 5 baht and 10 baht coins and 20 baht, 50 baht, 100 baht and 1,000 baht notes. You may also occasionally see a 10 baht note, although those are no longer printed. Baht are further broken down into satang, and there are 100 satang per bah
The Thai baht, like the pound, originated from a traditional unit of mass. Its currency value was originally expressed as that of silver of corresponding weight (now defined as 15 grams), and was in use probably as early as the Sukhothai period in the form of bullet coins known in Thai as phot duang (Thai: พดด้วง). The issuance of currency is the responsibility of the Bank of Thailand. According to SWIFT, as of October 2014, the Thai baht ranked as the tenth most frequently used world payment currency.
The baht (Thai: บาท, sign : ฿ ; code: THB) is the currency of Thailand. It is subdivided into 100 satang (สตางค์). The issuance of currency is the responsibility of the Bank of Thailand. According to SWIFT, as of October 2014, the Thai baht ranked as the tenth most frequently used world payment currency.
Thai Currency and Money Matters. The currency of Thailand is the Baht - sometimes spelled Bath but pronounced to rhyme with hot.. One Baht is divisible into 100 Satang. Major credit cards are accepted by hotels and large shops, but hard cash is the preferred tender almost everywhere. The one, two and five-Baht coins are silver, while the ten-Baht coin consists of a silver ring around a brass center. Bills vary in size and color according to denomination: 20-Baht is green, 50-Baht is blue, 100-Baht is red, 500-Baht is purple and 1,000-Baht is white.