The floor of the nasal cavities, which also form the roof of the mouth, is made up by the bones of the hard palate: the horizontal plate of the palatine bone posteriorly and the palatine process of the maxilla anteriorly. The nasal cavity (or nasal fossa) is a large air filled space above and behind the nose in the middle of the face. Each cavity is the continuation of one of the two nostrils.
The roof of each nasal cavity is formed in its upper third to one half by the nasal bone and more inferiorly by the junctions of the upper lateral cartilage and nasal septum. Connective tissue and skin cover the bony and cartilaginous components of the dorsum of the nose. The nasal cavity (or nasal fossa) is a large air filled space above and behind the nose in the middle of the face. Each cavity is the continuation of one of the two nostrils.
General structure. The right and left nasal cavities are separated by the vertical nasal septum. Each nasal cavity is tall, narrow, and elongated, resembling the nave of a gothic cathedral. Its roof is the floor of the anterior cranial fossa, its floor is the roof of the oral cavity. Laterally, it is flanked by the orbit (above) and the maxillary sinus (below). The nasal vestibule, just inside the nostrils, is lined with stratified squamous epithelium, bearing coarse hairs
The roof of the nasal cavity is formed anteriorly by the nasal bones, the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and the floor of the frontal sinus. In its more horizontal midpart, the roof is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Apart from the nasal vestibule which is lined by stratified squamous epithelium, nasal cavity is lined by pseudostratified columner ciliated epithelium i.e. respiratory epithelium. Each nasal fossa has four walls; roof, floor, septal wall, and lateral wall.
The nasal cavity is divided into left and right halves by the nasal septum. The septum is formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone above, the vomer bone posteriorly and by an extensive cartilage anteriorly (Fig. 2). Each nasal cavity has a roof and a lateral wall. 
palate. (păl`ĭt) , roof of the mouth. The front part, known as the hard palate, formed by the upper maxillary bones and the palatine bones, separates the mouth from the nasal cavity. It is composed of a bone plate covered with a layer of mucous membrane tissue. 
palate. (păl`ĭt) , roof of the mouth. The front part, known as the hard palate, formed by the upper maxillary bones and the palatine bones, separates the mouth from the nasal cavity. It is composed of a bone plate covered with a layer of mucous membrane tissue
The nasal cavity. The nose opens into the nasal passageway, or cavity. This cavity is a space that runs along the top of the roof of the mouth (the palate, which separates your nose from your mouth) and then turns downward to join the passage from the mouth to the throat. 
The anterior three fourths of the floor of the nasal cavity are formed by the palatal process of the maxillary bone. Posteriorly, the remaining part is formed by the horizontal process of the palatine bone. Apart from the nasal vestibule which is lined by stratified squamous epithelium, nasal cavity is lined by pseudostratified columner ciliated epithelium i.e. respiratory epithelium. Each nasal fossa has four walls; roof, floor, septal wall, and lateral wall.