The egg will go into a sort of stasis until the hen has layed enough eggs and starts sitting on them, that's why all the chicks hatch about the same time. That can take up to 2 weeks or more. The eggs are still technically fresh, for around 14 days after being laid. I've had them on my kitchen counter for 2-3 weeks. Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
To properly answer the question of how long do eggs last, how long are eggs good for, or the shelf life of eggs, a variety of factors must be examined such as the sell by date and how the eggs have been stored. 
Once refrigerated, they must continue to stay in the fridge until use, but will stay good up to 6 months (or more) only who keeps eggs that long anyway. Oh, yeah, commercial egg producers. Store bought eggs can be an average of 3 weeks to 3 months old by the time you buy them. Fresh eggs are very hardy. I was taught to always break eggs into a bowl, not the pan, in case of meat spots or any irregularities. I eat mine at 4-5 weeks old all the time. If refrigerated, they can even last longer-mother earth did a study where they lasted something like 7 or eight months as long as they were refrigerated and unwashed.
The average egg in the grocery store is 6 weeks old by the time you buy it. Hopefully none of your backyard eggs will hang around that long, but if they do, here are some tips to keeping your eggs fresh as long as possible. 
It can even keep eggs fresh for awhile without any refrigeration and extend refrigeration by a week at least. 1  Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
Yes, eggs can last a pretty long time. I heard that most of the eggs we buy from the store are around 100 days old(! !), and yet still edible. Farmer Kitty's advice is very good for testing the freshness. And if the egg is not heavy for its size, it's probably not fresh. I have kept them for longer than a month. Fresh eggs don't always peel well when boiled. A month before a big holiday dinner when I will need deviled eggs I put away a few dozen. They never last long around here unless I put some to the side. My fresh daily eggs I keep on the counter in a basket and use as needed.
1 Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 2  If eggs start out as Grade AA, they remain AA for only two weeks if properly refrigerated. 3  After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks. Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
1 If in doubt, put the egg in water. 2  If it floats, do not use it. 3  Eggs last about 4-5 weeks in your refrigerator. 4  If you don't know how long the egg has been in the refrigerator, fill a cup with water (enough to cover the egg), and put the egg in the cup. Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
Various answers by our contributors: Eggs last about 4-5 weeks in your refrigerator. If you don't know how long the egg has been in the refrigerator, fill a cup with water (enough to cover the egg), and put the egg in the cup. If the egg sinks to the bottom, it is still good to eat, but if the egg floats, it is bad and should be discarded. 1 Therefore, unless you are not expecting to keep the eggs for very long, you should not put them in water. 2  If you must wash the eggs, use HOT running water. 3  Farmers have 30 days from the day an egg is laid to get it to stores. 4  Then, the stores have another 30 days to sell the eggs.