visionary (visionaries plural) 1 n-count If you refer to someone as a visionary, you mean that they have strong, original ideas about how things might be different in the future, especially about how things might be improved. An entrepreneur is more than just a risk taker. He is a visionary. 1 n-count If you refer to someone as a visionary, you mean that they have strong, original ideas about how things might be different in the future, especially about how things might be improved. An entrepreneur is more than just a risk taker. He is a visionary.
: having or showing clear ideas about what should happen or be done in the future. : having or showing a powerful imagination. : of or relating to something that is seen or imagined in a dream or vision (sense 3). Full Definition of VISIONARY. 1. a: of the nature of a vision: illusory c: existing only in imagination: unreal. 2. a: able or likely to see visions b: disposed to reverie or imagining: dreamy. 3. : of, relating to, or characterized by visions or the power of vision.
of human and animal vision. It includes terms from the areas of. biological and machine vision, visual psychophysics, visual. neuroscience and other related fields. Please feel free to make any suggestionsregarding. additions to the Visionary, comments or corrections. It includes terms from the areas of. biological and machine vision, visual psychophysics, visual. neuroscience and other related fields. Please feel free to make any suggestions regarding. additions to the Visionary, comments or corrections. Thank you.
Eventually the visionary leader starts casting vision themselves. There are three nuances of how this vision relates to the the prior vision-catching content. In other words, most of early vision casting is found “underneath” the vision of a leader and/or organization of the developing visionary. The visionary casts vision: a) in support of, b) in relation to and finally c) in contrast with. 1  In Support Of: The first practice is recasting the vision that already exists. 
As a literary term, the word visionary is defined thus: Visionary writing has the qualities of prophecy—perhaps it is apocalyptic in imagery, or it may be predictive in its insights, or it may contain a core of moral truth. Contemporary authors have formed organizations like the Visionary Fiction Alliance to clearly define what the genre is and what works belong to this category, advocate the use of this term for all fiction of the determined type, and promote authorship and readership of this form of fiction.
of human and animal vision. It includes terms from the areas of. biological and machine vision, visual psychophysics, visual. neuroscience and other related fields. Please feel free to make any suggestions regarding. additions to the Visionary, comments or corrections. Thank you.
The visionary state is achieved via meditation, drugs, lucid dreams, daydreams, or art. One example is Hildegard of Bingen, a 12th-century artist and Catholic saint. Other visionaries in religion are St Bernadette and Joseph Smith, said to have had visions of and communed with the Blessed Virgin and the Angel Moroni, respectively.
A vision can be political, religious, environmental, social, or technological in nature. By extension, a visionary can also be a person with a clear, distinctive, and specific (in some details) vision of the future, usually connected with advances in technology or social/political arrangements. For example, Ted Nelson is referred to as a visionary in connection with the Internet. One example is Hildegard of Bingen, a 12th-century artist and Catholic saint. Other visionaries in religion are St Bernadette and Joseph Smith, said to have had visions of and communed with the Blessed Virgin and the Angel Moroni, respectively.