The word Songkran was actually derived from “Sankranti” , which means “to move or to change”. Celebrated on particular dates in 13 April – 15 April, Songkran 2016 is regarded as the longest holiday in Thailand. Unlike other festivals in the place, Songkran is said to be the grandest since it is traditionally celebrated for three consecutive days. Songkran 2016 falls on April 13, 2016 to April 15, 2016. In conclusion, Songkran festival is a mix of tradition and fun. On the other hand, this even is also about showcasing Thai’s finest dishes.
The Songkran festival (Thai: สงกรานต์, [sǒŋ.krāːn] , listen; from the Sanskrit word saṃkrānti, or literally astrological passage) is celebrated in Thailand as the traditional New Year's Day from 13 to 15 April. It coincides with the New Year of many calendars of South and Southeast Asia. Songkran elsewhere [edit]. Songkran is celebrated as Sangken in northeastern areas of India, as the traditional New Year's Day by the Buddhist Community. The Sangken festival is celebrated by the people of the Khampti tribe.
The Astrological New Year and the Thai Lunar Calender Thailand's Songkran Festival is by far the most important event of the year for the Thai people. It's a time of fun and a special time for new year ritual and respect for water, the most important element in the agricultural culture of Southeast Asia. The larger Songkran Festival as it is celebrated today is comprised of four days. The first two are the 'Troot Festival', and the second two immediately follow and are a time for relaxation and merriment after attending to family and religious duties. Copyright 2012.
It is now celebrated all over Thailand, although the celebration in the northern city of Chiang Mai is generally recognized as the most authentic example, and also the most intense. The official dates for the Songkran festival in Chiang Mai are Monday, 13 April 2015 to Wednesday, 15 April 2015. The fact that Songkran is falling on a weekend this year means that Thursday 16 April, 2015 will also be a bank/government holiday.
How to Celebrate Thai New Year. Songkran is the traditional Thai New Year. It is also known as the Water Splashing Festival. This festival is celebrated for 3 full days every year in April and you'll find it is celebrated in some areas even longer than that. For times during which the festival is held, check the internet. 1. Learn some more about the festival event. Songkran Day or Thailand New Year is one of the biggest events in Thailand each year. Seeing in the Thai New Year means a constant festive feel, with parades, music, shows, people out on the streets and more happening all of the time.
Also known as the Thailand Water Fight Festival, the Songkran Festival is considered one of the most important for the people of Thailand. It is celebrated as a traditional Thai New Year, when the people sprinkle water, out of respect and to pay Buddha respect, on the elders. The date of the Songkran 2014 water Festival will fall between Sunday April 13th to Tuesday April 15th. Events and Festivals on Songkran 2014. Originally, the Thai Water Festival was based on the lunar calendar, however recently it is based on the Western calendar.
The pictures below are from the last years Songkran Festivals. Thailand's most celebrated festival is the Songkran Festival. It starts April 13 and lasts between 3 and 10 days, depending on where you are in Thailand. The word Songkran is from the Sanskrit meaning the beginning of a new Solar Year, but nowadays Thailand celebrates the New Year on 31 December. 
By definition, Songkran festival is a 3-day Holiday and is a Thai’s way of celebrating New Year. In the past years, the date lies based on the lunar calendar but now it is fixed and usually being celebrated on April 13-April 15. Based on tradition, Songkran is about family and religious worship. 
Songkran, the Thai New Year celebrated from April 13 to April 16, is the most important, the best known and the gayest of Thailand's festivals. To the Thai people, this festival is one of water throwing and although it has religious significance, it usually turns into great fun. Songkran, the Thai New Year celebrated from April 13 to April 16, is the most important, the best known and the gayest of Thailand's festivals. Home.