The main difference is that motor neurons move signals from the central nervous system to a central organ or point while sensory neurons move signals from the central organ or … point to the central nervous system. The main difference is that a sensory neuron carries messages in the form of electric impulse from sense organs to brain, whereas motor neurons carries messages to effect … ive organs.
Best Answer: Motor neurons typically go from the CNS to the periphery of the body and control stimulus of the muscles and movement. Sensory neurons typically go from the periphery to the CNS and transmit your senses, i.e. hot, cold, hard, soft, pain, pleasure, etc. Sensory neurons (neurons) are neurons that are activated by sensory input (vision, touch, hearing, etc.), and send projections into the central nervous system that convey sensory information to the brain or spinal cord.
They follow ascending, or afferent pathways, so called ‘ afferent neurons ’. The cell body of the sensory neurons is located in the peripheral sensory ganglia, in the peripheral nervous system. Sensory neurons are unipolar neurons with afferent fibers, which extend between sensory receptors and central nervous system. Neurons can be classified based on their function as sensory neurons, motor neurons, and interneurons. Sensory Neurons. Sensory neurons convey sensory impulses from sensory organs toward the central nervous system, which includes the spinal cord and brain.
Confidence votes 252. motor neuron=A neuron that conveys impulses from the central nervous system to a muscle, gland, or other effector tissue. sensory neuron= nerves that take in information from either the outside or from within the body. Sensory neurons receive impulses from your eyes, ears, tongue, nose and skin. A sensory neuron is a nerve cell that transmits impulses to the central nervous system (spinal cord or brain). It is information such as taste, touch, hot, cold, sound, sight … or pain. It's cell body is located just outside the central nervous system and has a very short axon which leads into the nervous system.
motor neuron=A neuron that conveys impulses from the central nervous system to a muscle, gland, or other effector tissue. sensory neuron= nerves that take in information from … either the outside or from within the body. Sensory neurons receive impulses from your eyes, ears, tongue, nose and skin. Motor areas control your muscle during movement. and A sensory neuron is a nerve cell that transmits impulses to the central nervous system (spinal cord or brain). The main difference is that a sensory neuron carries messages in the form of electric impulse from sense organs to brain, whereas motor neurons carries messages to effect … ive organs.
0. A sensory neuron is a nerve cell that transmits impulses to the central nervous system (spinal cord or brain). It is information such as taste, touch, hot, cold, sound, sight or pain. 
In vertebrates, the term motor neuron (or motoneuron) classically applies to neurons located in the central nervous system (or CNS) that project their axons outside the CNS and directly or indirectly control muscles. Motor neuron is often associated with efferent neuron, primary neuron, or alpha motor neurons. Sensory neurons (neurons) are neurons that are activated by sensory input (vision, touch, hearing, etc.), and send projections into the central nervous system that convey sensory information to the brain or spinal cord.
The main difference is that a sensory neuron carries messages in the form of electric impulse from sense organs to brain, whereas motor neurons carries messages to effect … ive organs. A sensory neuron is a nerve cell that transmits impulses to the central nervous system (spinal cord or brain). It is information such as taste, touch, hot, cold, sound, sight … or pain. It's cell body is located just outside the central nervous system and has a very short axon which leads into the nervous system.
The main difference is that motor neurons move signals from the central nervous system to a central organ or point while sensory neurons move signals from the central organ or … point to the central nervous system. A sensory neuron is a nerve cell that transmits impulses to the central nervous system (spinal cord or brain). It is information such as taste, touch, hot, cold, sound, sight … or pain. It's cell body is located just outside the central nervous system and has a very short axon which leads into the nervous system.