The two main types of digestion is chemical and physical digestion. Physical digestion is the physical breakdown of food, using your teeth, called mastication. Chemical digestion uses different fluids and chemicals in your body to break down the food further, such as pepsin and hydrochloric acid. It is then pushed to the rectum which is the last part of the large intestine, then out the anus and into your toilet. The digestive system refers to the system from the mouth to the  bowels. It is the system that the body used to draw nutrients from  food and to eliminate waste.
In the human digestive system, the process of digestion has many stages, the first of which starts in the mouth (oral cavity). Digestion involves the breakdown of food into smaller and smaller components which can be absorbed and assimilated into the body. Saliva functions initially in the digestive system to moisten and soften food into the formation of a bolus. The bolus is further helped by the lubrication provided by the saliva in its passage from the mouth into the oesophagus.
Also called the throat, the pharynx is the portion of the digestive tract that receives the food from your mouth. Branching off the pharynx is the esophagus, which carries food to the stomach, and the trachea or windpipe, which carries air to the lungs. Stop 2: The Pharynx and Esophagus. Also called the throat, the pharynx is the portion of the digestive tract that receives the food from your mouth. Branching off the pharynx is the esophagus, which carries food to the stomach, and the trachea or windpipe, which carries air to the lungs. 1 | 2 | 3 | 4.
The digestive system is the path that the food taht you eat follows so that your body can get all of the nutrients out of it. It begins in your mouth, goes through your aosophagus, through your stomach and then small and large intestine and then to your anus as poo or your urethra as urine. It is then pushed to the rectum which is the last part of the large intestine, then out the anus and into your toilet. The digestive system refers to the system from the mouth to the  bowels. It is the system that the body used to draw nutrients from  food and to eliminate waste.
In this article. Your digestive system is uniquely designed to turn the food you eat into nutrients, which the body uses for energy, growth and cell repair. Here's how it works. Your Digestive System. Your digestive system is uniquely designed to turn the food you eat into nutrients, which the body uses for energy, growth and cell repair.
The main parts of the digestive system are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, liver, gull bladder, and pancreas. Food does not actually pass thro … ugh the liver, gull bladder and pancreas, but they do produce a green liquid called bile that helps digestion. It is then pushed to the rectum which is the last part of the large intestine, then out the anus and into your toilet. The digestive system refers to the system from the mouth to the  bowels. It is the system that the body used to draw nutrients from  food and to eliminate waste.
Stop 1: The Mouth. The mouth is the beginning of the digestive system, and, in fact, digestion starts here before you even take the first bite of a meal. The smell of food triggers the salivary glands in your mouth to secrete saliva, causing your mouth to water. When you actually taste the food, saliva increases. Stop 2: The Pharynx and Esophagus. Also called the throat, the pharynx is the portion of the digestive tract that receives the food from your mouth. Branching off the pharynx is the esophagus, which carries food to the stomach, and the trachea or windpipe, which carries air to the lungs. 1 | 2 | 3 | 4.
The mouth is the beginning of the digestive tract. In fact, digestion starts here as soon as you take the first bite of a meal. Chewing breaks the food into pieces that are more easily digested, while saliva mixes with food to begin the process of breaking it down into a form your body can absorb and use. Your Digestive System. Your digestive system is uniquely designed to turn the food you eat into nutrients, which the body uses for energy, growth and cell repair. Here's how it works
The digestive system is a group of organs working together to convert food into energy and basic nutrients to feed the entire body. Food passes through a long tube inside the body known as the alimentary canal or the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract). The digestive system uses 3 main processes to move and mix food: 1  Swallowing. 2  Swallowing is the process of using smooth and skeletal muscles in the mouth, tongue, and pharynx to push food out of the mouth, through the pharynx, and into the esophagus.