Pressure effects are initially vague. They may include nonspecific pain, cough, low-grade fever, and the sensation of abdominal fullness. As the mass grows, the symptoms become more specific because the mass impinges on or obstructs specific organs.
by Dr. Benteu · December 1, 2011. Hydatid cysts – symptoms, tests, treatment. Hydatid cyst is a cystic tumor that occurs in the liver (it can be located in lungs, kidneys, spleen, brain, bone, muscle, eye but with a much lower frequency) after infestation with the parasite called Taenia echinoccocus. Cysts with superior evolution give pleuro-pulmonary symptoms (dry cough, mild dyspnoea = shortness of breath, pain point that radiates to the right shoulder or stabbing). Also in the evolution of these cysts it can be seen some enlargement of the chest base.
Disease. Persons with cystic echinococcosis often remain asymptomatic until hydatid cysts containing the larval parasites grow large enough to cause discomfort, pain, nausea, and vomiting.
Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) disease is caused by infection with the larval stage of Echinococcus multilocularis, a ~1-4 millimeter long tapeworm found in foxes, coyotes, and dogs (definitive hosts). Small rodents are intermediate hosts for E. multilocularis. Echinococcosis is a parasitic disease caused by infection with tiny tapeworms of the genus Echinocococcus. Echinococcosis is classified as either cystic echinococcosis or alveolar echinococcosis.
Hydatid disease in humans is produced by cysts that are the larval stages of the tapeworm Echinococcus. Brood capsules are formed within cysts,cysts containing 30–40 protoscoleces. Each of these is capable of developing into a single tapeworm. 
In tumour stage symptoms depend on the location of the cyst. Cysts with superior evolution give pleuro-pulmonary symptoms (dry cough, mild dyspnoea = shortness of breath, pain point that radiates to the right shoulder or stabbing). Also in the evolution of these cysts it can be seen some enlargement of the chest base.
Echinococcosis is infection with larvae of Echinococcus granulosus or E. multilocularis (alveolar hydatid disease). Symptoms depend on the organ involved—eg, jaundice and abdominal discomfort with liver cysts or cough, chest pain, and hemoptysis with lung cysts. Cyst rupture can cause fever, urticaria, and serious anaphylactic reactions. Diagnosis is with imaging, examination of cyst fluid, or serologic tests.
Echinococcosis, also called hydatid disease, hydatidosis, or echinococcal disease, is a parasitic disease of tapeworms of the Echinococcus type. The two main types of the disease are cystic echinococcosis and alveolar echinococcosis. Less common forms include polycystic echinococcosis and unicystic echinococcosis. The symptoms and signs that occur depend on the cyst's location and size. Alveolar disease usually begins in the liver but can spread to other parts of the body, such as the lungs or brain. When the liver is affected the person may have abdominal pain, weight loss, and turn yellow.
Cystic echinocccosis (CE) , also known as hydatid disease, is caused by infection with the larval stage of Echinococcus granulosus, a ~2-7 millimeter long tapeworm found in dogs (definitive host) and sheep, cattle, goats, and pigs (intermediate hosts). Echinococcosis is a parasitic disease caused by infection with tiny tapeworms of the genus Echinocococcus. Echinococcosis is classified as either cystic echinococcosis or alveolar echinococcosis.