The simplest way to make soft-boiled eggs is to start with cold water in a small pot, put your eggs in, and wait till the water starts boiling. When it does, let the eggs boil for one minute, and they are done! Perfectly done! If you want them softer, boil them for 50 secs. So, once you learn the timing on soft-boiled eggs, you’ll be making these for yourself almost daily! They are so easy! All you do is bring a pot of salted water to a boil on the stove, carefully drop in your eggs, then cover the pot tight and reduce heat to low.
Step 3: Simmer the eggs for 4 minutes for soft-boiled eggs. For semi-firm yolks and hard whites, simmer for 5 minutes. For hard-boiled eggs, simmer for 8 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to remove the egg from the water. Transfer to an egg cup and serve immediately. 
For soft-boiled eggs, eggwhite should be just set and yolk creamy. Variation: Medium-boiled eggs: Gently simmer for 5 minutes. Hard-boiled eggs Gently simmer for 7 minutes. Tip: To shell hard-boiled eggs, remove pan from heat. Place under running water for 1 minute. Set aside in cold water until eggs are cool enough to handle. Tap egg on side of kitchen sink to crack shell
Cook. When I want a soft boiled egg I want the yolk soft and the white firm. The boiling time has a lot to do with your elevation. 5 minutes is perfect for an elevation of 1100 ft (330 meters) if you are nearer sea level decrease the boiling time if at a higher elevation increase the time. 
For hard-boiled eggs, put the eggs in a pan and cover them with cold water. This way you'll have less of a chance of breaking them. Bring to a boil, put a lid on it and turn off the heat. Let it stand for 10 to 15 minutes. Step 5: Soft-Boiled Eggs. Boil the water first and drop in the egg very gently. If you're making more than one, start timing when the water returns to a boil. Lower the heat to a simmer. In about 3 to 4 minutes you'll have the perfect consistency: tender-set egg whites with a creamy yolk.
Directions. Place eggs in a saucepan large enough to accommodate them in a single layer. Fill the pan with cold water, covering eggs by an inch. Set over medium-high heat, and bring to a boil. Turn off heat, cover, and let stand 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Remove eggs from water. Serve immediately in egg cups -- perfect for cracking and scooping the egg right from the shell
Step 4: Perfect Hard-Boiled Eggs. You can store hard-boiled eggs peeled or unpeeled for about a week in the refrigerator. They are great deviled or in egg salad  or even added to mac and cheese and casseroles. Tip: Hard-boiled eggs are perishable; don't let them sit at room temperature for more than two hours. Step 5: Soft-Boiled Eggs. Boil the water first and drop in the egg very gently. If you're making more than one, start timing when the water returns to a boil. Lower the heat to a simmer. In about 3 to 4 minutes you'll have the perfect consistency: tender-set egg whites with a creamy yolk.
1 Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 2  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 3 For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.). 4  Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. 1 Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. 2  Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. 3  For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. ( 4
Skip this step if your eggs are very soft-boiled with runny yolks or if you're planning to dye your eggs for Easter. Place the eggs in a bowl of ice water. Fill a bowl with ice water. Transfer the eggs to the bowl and leave them there for at least 1 minute. 