Chickens will naturally live for 6 or more years, but broiler chickens typically take less than 6 weeks to reach slaughter size. A free range or organic meat chicken will usually be slaughtered at about 14 weeks of age. The average incubation period for chickens is 21 days but may depend on the temperature and humidity in the incubator. Temperature regulation is the most critical factor for a successful hatch. Variations of more than 1 °C (1.8 °F) from the optimum temperature of 37.5 °C (99.5 °F) will reduce hatch rates.
On average, most backyard chickens live to be around 8 years old. I have heard of some living much longer. Your chickens will be well cared for, so they should have a long, happy life. The important thing to remember is that they will only lay eggs consistently the first few years. For most breeds, you can expect to start getting eggs when the hens are about 5-6 months old. The first few eggs can be a little funky – small, misshapen, double yolkers and even this double shelled egg I got once. It can take a few months for their juvenile bodies to adjust to adulthood.
Hens require at least 14 hours of light per day to lay eggs. They produce eggs at a maximum rate with 16 hours of light exposure. Hens generally lay eggs within six hours of sunrise -- or six hours of artificial light exposure for hens kept indoors. Hens without exposure to artificial lighting in the hen house will stop laying eggs in late fall for about two months. Hens usually ovulate in the morning but can ovulate as late as 3 p.m. Ovulation occurs about an hour after laying an egg. If a hen lays an egg in the afternoon, she may delay ovulating again until the following day. That egg will be laid about 26 hours later. This is why hens regularly skip a day of egg-laying.
http://www.allaboutchickens.tk/. Bantams lay smaller eggs than large fowl, and in cookery, 2 bantam eggs should be used to 1 normal egg. Every year, hen will lay 80% of the eggs she laid the previous year, so assuming she laid 200 eggs in her first year then the pattern would go like this: First year: 200 eggs. Second year: 160 eggs. Seventh year: 52 eggs. Eigth year: 42 eggs. And so on, however many chickens, even those kept as pets will not make it past their 5th year. Most commercial producers will kill all their layers at 18 months of age because they become uneconomical to keep. They then replace the old layers with new ones and the process begins again
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Cornish-rock chickens can live a long life if their diet is controlled. However, due to their fast growth Cornish-rock crosses begin to develop health problems such as arthrit … is after eight weeks old. The chickens were bred specifically to put on a lot of weight in a very short period of time, not for longevity. 
Fall is a normal time of year. Fall is a normal time of year for chickens to stop laying eggs as the sunlight decreases and they molt, but 7 months is a long time. She's not that old. Another common reason is dietary, though it sounds as if your other chicken is laying. Good layers will sometimes lay for about 50 or 60 weeks and then go through a rest period. As daylight hours decrease, egg laying is sometimes affected; hens need about 14 hours of daylight to lay eggs.
These high production breeds are still probably laying four or five eggs per week--in other words, they lay more than many popular backyard breeds do, even at the peak of their laying. To read about how long hens lay eggs, please read the related topics below. Naturally, this will depend on the conditions under which they're kept. Pet chickens that are properly cared for can live a relatively long time--longer than dogs, sometimes. It's common for a hen in a backyard setting to live 8-10 years, but we've also heard reports of chickens living as many as 20 years! When I grow up, Dotty, I will introduce you to my children.