Hepatitis. Hepatitis, a broad term for inflammation of the liver, has a number of infectious and non-infectious causes. Two of the viruses that cause hepatitis (hepatitis A and E) can be transmitted through water and food; hygiene is therefore important in their control.mong the infectious causes, hepatitis A and hepatitis E are associated with inadequate water supplies and poor sanitation and hygiene, leading to infection and inflammation of the liver.
Hepatitis B virus (. ) and hepatitis C virus (. ) are both spread through contact with contaminated blood, and. is also sexually transmitted. Both. and. can lead to serious liver damage, liver cancer and the need for liver transplantation. In Canada, about 600,000 people are living with. and/or. . Often found in co-infections with other viruses, such as hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). - Spread through contact with infected blood or blood products.
Transmission occurs by the fecal-oral route, either by direct contact with an HAV-infected person or by ingestion of HAV-contaminated food or water. Foodborne or waterborne hepatitis A outbreaks are relatively uncommon in the United States.symptomatic or anicteric HAV infection without the clinical signs and symptoms of hepatitis A is common in children, and ! 10% of children aged ! 6 years with HAV infection have jaun­dice [5]. Clinical manifestations of symptomatic HAV infection vary from mild, anicteric illness to fulminant hepatitis.
Hepatitis A is a contagious liver disease that results from infection with the hepatitis A virus. It can range in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a severe illness lasting several months.ow do I remove hepatitis A from my drinking water? To kill or inactivate hepatitis A, bring your water to a rolling boil for one minute (at elevations above 6,500 feet, boil for three minutes) Water should then be allowed to cool, stored in a clean sanitized container with a tight cover, and refrigerated.
Hepatitis A virus is usually spread from person to person by putting something in the mouth that has been contaminated with the stool of a person with hepatitis A. This type of transmission is called the fecal-oral route.o prevent the spread of hepatitis A from an infected food worker to co-workers and/or restaurant patrons, food workers should never touch ready-to-eat foods with bare hands, and should carefully wash their hands after using the bathroom, even if the food worker does not feel sick.
Hepatitis A is usually spread when a person ingests fecal matter – even in microscopic amounts – from contact with objects, food, or drinks contaminated by the feces, or stool, of an infected person. For more information about hepatitis A illness and treatment, please visit CDC's hepatitis A website.ow do I remove hepatitis A from my drinking water? To kill or inactivate hepatitis A, bring your water to a rolling boil for one minute (at elevations above 6,500 feet, boil for three minutes) Water should then be allowed to cool, stored in a clean sanitized container with a tight cover, and refrigerated.
) and hepatitis C virus (. ) are both spread through contact with contaminated blood, and. is also sexually transmitted. Both. and. can lead to serious liver damage, liver cancer and the need for liver transplantation. Often found in co-infections with other viruses, such as hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). - Spread through contact with infected blood or blood products.
(infectious hepatitis) is caused by the hepatitis A virus and is spread via fecal contamination of objects such as food, clothing, toys, and eating utensils (fecal-oral route). It is generally a mild disease of children and young adults characterized by loss of appetite, malaise, nausea, diarrhea, fever, and chills. Hepatitis D. Caused by the hepatitis D virus. It is transmitted like hepatitis B, and in fact a person must have been co-infected with hepatitis B before contracting hepatitis D. Hepatitis D results in severe liver damage and has a higher fatality rate than infection with hepatitis B virus alone.
Contaminated food and water can also pose a risk of cholera and a variety of conditions caused by protozoan and helminthic parasites. Many of the infectious diseases associated with contaminated food and water are caused by pathogens transmitted via the fecal-oral route.mong the infectious diseases that travelers can acquire from contaminated food and water are Escherichia coli infections, shigellosis or bacillary dysentery, giardiasis, cryptosporidiosis, norovirus infection, hepatitis A, and salmonelloses, including typhoid fever.
Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver. Hepatitis can be caused by viruses and can lead to serious health consequences. There are several different forms of the virus, including types A, B, C, D, E, and G. Often found in co-infections with other viruses, such as hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). - Spread through contact with infected blood or blood products.