There are numerous methods available for processing semen which utilize various equipment items and techniques. Always keep in mind the two basic principles of semen collection and processing. (1) Use hygenic techniques and (2) control temperature changes.
The aim is to reconstitute the sperm to body temperature (37 o Celsius), or close to it, for insemination. Obviously with the difference in size of the straws, there will be a difference in times and temperatures required to achieve this. The water bath that is used need not be fancy.
Semen is damaged by rough handling, temperature shock and exposure to light, it is, therefore, important that you take care when storing and handling AI doses on your unit, according to BPEX Action for Productivity No. 30.
Curing is the process in which the concrete is protected from loss of moisture and kept within a reasonable temperature range. This process results in concrete with increased strength and decreased permeability. Curing is also a key player in mitigating cracks, which can severely affect durability.
Decide how many bottles (units) of semen that can be processed from the ejaculate. Each bottle should contain about 3 to 4 billion sperm and 80 to 100 ml fluid. The boar ejaculate may contain from a low of 10 to 15 billion up to over 100 billion sperm or enough sperm for 2 or 3 bottles up to 25 or more bottles.
If it is important that a particular boar be used, semen should be ordered weeks or months in advance to ensure availability. You must predict when the sow or gilt will be in standing heat. Figure 1. Semen bottles and a Styrofoam shipping container. The swine estrus cycle ranges from 18 to 28 days but averages 21 days.
Once semen is cooled, it should be maintained at 63° F. until it is used for insemination. “For each temperature fluctuation, up or down, of 3.6 to 5.4° F. (2-3° C.), sperm cell viability and shelf life may be decreased by as much as one day,” he says.
It should be borne in mind that freeze/thaw results can vary even within a single batch of semen, and very definitely from separate freezes, and with the time of the year. The 5 ml macro straw requires a higher temperature than the field use half ml 38 o s, as it is a thicker straw.
Throughout the evaluation and processing of fresh boar semen, it is very important to maintain a constant temperature. But once it is extended and packaged, it is ready to be cooled to 63° F. (17° C.), the optimal storage temperature for fresh boar semen, he explains.