Whilst many of the extrinsic muscles attach to the dorsum of the foot, there are only two intrinsic muscles located in this compartment – the extensor digitorum brevis, and the extensor hallucis brevis. They are mainly responsible for assisting some of the extrinsic muscles in their actions. 1 The extrinsic muscles arise from the anterior, posterior and lateral compartments of the leg. 2  They are mainly responsible for actions such as eversion, inversion, plantarflexion and dorsiflexion of the foot.
The muscles acting on the foot can be divided into two distinct groups; extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. 1  The extrinsic muscles arise from the anterior, posterior and lateral compartments of the leg. 2  They are mainly responsible for actions such as eversion, inversion, plantarflexion and dorsiflexion of the foot. 1 The extrinsic muscles arise from the anterior, posterior and lateral compartments of the leg. 2  They are mainly responsible for actions such as eversion, inversion, plantarflexion and dorsiflexion of the foot.
(2012) • The foot intrinsics are larger than some muscles of the leg. • Total PIFM volume (113.3 cm 3) is larger than the flexor hallucis longus (74.0 cm 3) and the flexor digitorum longus (18.7 cm 3) • Total PIFM similar size to TP muscle volume (104.2 cm 3) data via Fukunaga et al. (1992). 
Both your feet and your hands have extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. Extrinsic muscles originate far away from the joints that they move. For the foot, there are toe muscles that start on the shin bones and turn into tendons that attach on the ends of the toes. The intrinsic muscles are like the “core” muscles of the foot. Because they are deep and don’t cross over too many joints, they can work well in stabilizing and protecting the arch and structures within the foot. If the foot intrinsic muscles are weak, the foot structures are more prone to increased stress and injury.
How to Strengthen the Extrinsic Muscles of the Foot (Video). The foot and ankle support the entire leg and strengthening them will help build your solid base so that you can perform all your activities and sports without risk of injury. Strengthen the extrinsic muscles of the foot with help from a physical therapist with a private practice in this free video clip. advertisement. This is Jamie Glick. I'm here to talk about how to strengthen the extrinsic muscles of the foot. The foot and ankle support the entire leg and strengthening them will help build your solid base so that you can perform all your activities and sports without risk of injury.
The muscles acting on the foot can be classified into extrinsic muscles, those originating on the anterior or posterior aspect of the lower leg, and intrinsic muscles, originating on the dorsal (top) or plantar (base) aspects of the foot. 
Static Stretches. Static stretches -- in which you hold a position -- can target the intrinsic muscles on the bottom and the top of the foot. To stretch the intrinsic muscles on the bottom of your foot, sit in a chair and place your right foot on your left thigh. With your right hand, gently pull the toes of your right foot back until you feel a stretch on the bottom of your foot. To stretch the intrinsic muscles on the top of your foot, stand up and place the top of your right foot on the ground behind you. Press the top of your foot into the floor while you point your ankle
Strong foot and ankle muscles are essential for good balance and mobility. Foot muscle weakness develops after injury or prolonged periods of decreased activity. Extrinsic foot muscles are used for walking and are responsible for dynamically stabilizing the ankle joint during movement. These muscles originate outside the foot-in the lower leg-and attach to bones in the foot through tendons. Perform exercises to strengthen the extrinsic muscles of the foot. Perform seated toe raises to strengthen your dorsiflexors, which are the muscles responsible for lifting your toes up off the floor. Sit in a chair with your feet flat on the floor. Keep your heels on the floor and lift your toes toward the ceiling. Hold for three seconds then lower back down.