The use of cadmium is generally decreasing due to its toxicity (it is specifically listed in the European Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and the replacement of nickel-cadmium batteries with nickel-metal hydride and lithium-ion batteries. One of its few new uses is in cadmium telluride solar panels. Cadmium and its congeners are not always considered transition metals, in that they do not have partly filled d or f electron shells in the elemental or common oxidation states. The average concentration of cadmium in Earth's crust is between 0.1 and 0.5 parts per million (ppm).
Cadmium. Cadmium (Cd) is a soft, malleable, bluish white metal found in zinc ores, and to a much lesser extent, in the cadmium mineral greenockite. In 2011, US production of cadmium was estimated at 600 metric tons, down approximately 40% from the production levels 20 years ago (1992). Cadmium and its compounds are highly toxic and exposure to this metal is known to cause cancer and targets the body's cardiovascular, renal, gastrointestinal, neurological, reproductive, and respiratory systems.
Cadmium is a common impurity in zinc ores, and it is most often isolated during the production of zinc. Some zinc ores concentrates from sulfidic zinc ores contain up to 1.4% of cadmium. In the 1970s, the output of cadmium was 6.5 pounds per ton of zinc. Cadmium and its congeners are not always considered transition metals, in that they do not have partly filled d or f electron shells in the elemental or common oxidation states. The average concentration of cadmium in Earth's crust is between 0.1 and 0.5 parts per million (ppm).
Cadmium is a soft, malleable, ductile, bluish-white divalent metal. It is similar in many respects to zinc but forms complex compounds. Unlike most other metals, cadmium is resistant to corrosion and as a result it is used as a protective layer when deposited on other metals. Cadmium and its congeners are not always considered transition metals, in that they do not have partly filled d or f electron shells in the elemental or common oxidation states. The average concentration of cadmium in Earth's crust is between 0.1 and 0.5 parts per million (ppm).
Cadmium usually combines with other things to form different compounds. Some of these compounds affect the body more than others. Cadmium does not have a definite taste or odor. Cadmium is not mined, but it is a by-product of the smelting of other metals such as zinc, lead, and copper. Cadmium is used in nickel-cadmium rechargeable batteries and for metal plating. It also is used in some paints, plastics, and metal solders. Cadmium is released into the environment from mining and metal processing operations, burning fuels, making and using phosphate fertilizers, and disposing of metal products. People living near industry that conducts any of these activities may be exposed to cadmium.
In its pure form, cadmium is a silvery white, malleable metal with a bluish hue. It is found naturally in the earth's crust and is a relatively rare metal, ranking 67th in abundance among the 90 naturally occurring elements on Earth. 
Cadmium is a metal found naturally in the earth's crust. Pure cadmium is a soft, silver-white metal; however, its unusual to find it in its pure form. Its commonly found in combination with other elements such as oxygen (cadmium oxide) or sulphur (cadmium sulphate). Cadmium is also used in industry. The cadmium used in industry is a byproduct of zinc, lead, and copper refining. Industrial uses of cadmium include production of metal plating, rechargeable batteries, paint pigments, and plastics.
Cadmium is found naturally in small quantities in air, water, and soil. Since cadmium is a metal, it does not break down and can accumulate over time. Burning household or industrial waste and burning coal or oil may release cadmium into the air. Cadmium is released into the environment from mining and metal processing operations, burning fuels, making and using phosphate fertilizers, and disposing of metal products. People living near industry that conducts any of these activities may be exposed to cadmium.
It will explain what cadmium is, where it is found, how it can affect your health, and what you can do to prevent or reduce exposure to it. Cadmium is released into the environment from mining and metal processing operations, burning fuels, making and using phosphate fertilizers, and disposing of metal products. People living near industry that conducts any of these activities may be exposed to cadmium.