While Colombo can experience daytime humidity in excess of 70% all year round (rising to approximately 90% during the monsoon season), humidity in the Cultural Triangle drops as low as 60% during the monsoon month of March, and peaks at around 80% during the November and December rains.
The climate in Negombo, as in most coastal areas in Sri Lanka, is warm during the day, and cooler at night. The wet season is during the months of June to October when the South West monsoon brings rain to the Western coast, but most often the days are sunny and bright.
Averages for Colombo in December. When it comes to discussing winter sun getaways, Colombo should be high on anyone's list and the winter is the time to visit. Outside of the summer monsoon season, the area enjoys nothing but high temperatures-usually hovering around 30 degrees-and hours of sun every day.
Weather in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka ’s weather is tropical and climatically the island is divided into two zones: The dry zone that spreads over the Northern plains, North central plains, Eastern plains and the Northern and Eastern coastal belts.
Sri Lanka climate is tropical and consists of distinct wet and dry seasons. The Yala monsoon brings abundant rainfall to the country’s western and southern regions from May to September; the area experiences its dry season during December through March.
Sri Lanka Climate & Best Months of the Year to Go. First, here are some facts about Sri Lanka's climate: 1  Sri Lanka is a year-round tropical destination. 2  Monsoon: monsoon is a major factor that may affect your Sri Lanka trip as it can bring rainfall. 3  Sri Lanka experiences two monsoons every year, what's more, the monsoons affect different parts of Sri Lanka.
Averages for Colombo in November. The UK may be languishng in cold weather in November, but Colombo's prime tourism season is just beginning. The area enjoys consistently high temperatures and hours of sun year round, with really very little variation in the temperatures.