12/26/10 7:08 PM. . The only real difference is that opening in openGL GE is using the memory that is dedicated on your graphics card, not your system resources. If you have a graphics card installed in your computer that is capable of handling the memory requirements of the GE program, you open with openGL. If you computers graphic card has to use you systems memory (RAM) then you would open using DirectX. This is microsofts way of letting you enjoy the 3D effects of many programs. When you first install and run GE for the first time, it should tell you which mode to open in and then set it as your default.
Graphic Card Requirements. Google does not specifically recommend either DirectX or OpenGL for Google Earth. You can configure Google Earth to operate in either DirectX or OpenGL rendering modes. If your system crashes or performs poorly in one mode, Google recommends you switch to the other mode. OpenGL Overview. OpenGL is a platform-neutral, open API for rendering graphic images. Although the API is different, OpenGL provides Google Earth with the same graphics performance enhancements as DirectX. OpenGL was originally developed by Silicon Graphics Incorporated.
The only real difference is that opening in openGL GE is using the memory that is dedicated on your graphics card, not your system resources. If you computers graphic card has to use you systems memory (RAM) then you would open using DirectX. This is microsofts way of letting you enjoy the 3D effects of many programs. When you first install and run GE for the first time, it should tell you which mode to open in and then set it as your default.
Developer of GIS applications and advanced geospatial visualization including Google Earth and KML. The only real difference is that opening in  OpenGL  GE is using the memory that is dedicated on your graphics card, not your system resources. If you have a graphics card installed in your computer that is capable of handling the memory requirements of the GE program, you open with  OpenGL . If you computers graphic card has to use your systems memory (RAM) then you would open using DirectX. This is Microsoft's way of letting you enjoy the 3D effects of many programs. When you first install and run GE for the first time, it should tell you which mode to open in and then set it as your default. Google is the name for the company and product. Googleplex is the nickname for the location where Google headquarters is in California. Edit. Share to: 1  Different Ways to Use Google Earth When downloaded and installed on your computer, Google Earth is a fun and interesting software that has a number of uses.
my google earth won't start in DirectX mode or openGL because it's not supported.. Debra Lea asked on April 4, 2013. DL. DL. i want to use my google earth but DirectX isn't supported and it won't start in OpenGL either. Download a fresh copy of Google Earth, and save it to your desktop. Next, download and install a free or trial version (whichever you prefer) of Revo uninstaller from the link below. Launch the program, and in the open window, click google earth and click uninstall at the top of the page.
Step 3: Switching Between DirectX and OpenGL. Windows users can run Google Earth (Free and Pro) in either DirectX or OpenGL mode. If you're experiencing strange graphics issues, you should try running Google Earth in each mode to see if one works better for your system. You will need to close Google Earth in order to switch between DirectX and OpenGL modes. If you're still experiencing issues after trying both DirectX and OpenGL modes, you may need to update your graphics card drivers. In order to do this, you'll first need to determine which graphics card you have.
Here's answer from answers.com : http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_difference_between_DirectX_and_OpenGl_Google_Earth. DirectX is a Windows-only API for your video graphics card and OpenGL is a cross-platform API also supported on Windows. If you computers graphic card has to use you systems memory (RAM) then you would open using DirectX. This is microsofts way of letting you enjoy the 3D effects of many programs. When you first install and run GE for the first time, it should tell you which mode to open in and then set it as your default.
Windows users can run Google Earth (Free and Pro) in either DirectX or OpenGL mode. If you're experiencing strange graphics issues, you should try running Google Earth in each mode to see if one works better for your system. Setting DirectX as your default renderer. VM. I cannot open Google Earth. Error message says DirectX mode not supported and to download DirectX 9.0c. I downloaded 9.0c but I still get the same error message. I ran the DirectX Diagnostic Tool: No problems found. I restarted computer and still have the same problem. I'm working on Windows XP Home Edition.