Overview. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. It helps the body make collagen, an important protein used to make skin, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, and blood vessels. Vitamin C is needed for healing wounds, and for repairing and maintaining bones and teeth
When you scan the vitamin and supplement shelves, you’re likely to see weight loss touted as a benefit of vitamin B12, calcium, omega-3 fatty acids, and green tea supplements. The purported benefits range from “revving up your metabolism” and “flipping a switch in your body” to “signaling your cells to burn fat.”. 
Test Overview. A vitamin B12 test measures the amount of vitamin B12 in the blood. The body needs this B vitamin to make blood cells and to maintain a healthy nervous system. Vitamin B12 is found in animal products such as meat, shellfish, milk, cheese, and eggs. Most people who eat animal products are not likely to develop vitamin B12 deficiency anemia unless their bodies can't absorb it from food. A vitamin B12 test measures the amount of vitamin B12 in the blood
Eating fruits and vegetables will provide your body with vitamin C, folate, vitamin K and vitamins B-1, B-6 and B-12. Vitamin C helps your body absorb iron. Folate and vitamin B-12 help to form red blood cells. Vitamin K helps your blood coagulate, or clot. Vitamins B-1 and B-6 help your heart and keep red blood cells healthy. Citrus fruits, including kiwi, oranges, berries and pineapple, are a source of vitamin C. Vitamin B-6 can be found in bananas and avocado.
Vitamin B12 is a nutrient that helps keep the body's nerve and blood cells healthy and helps make DNA, the genetic material in all cells. Vitamin B12 also helps prevent a type of anemia called megaloblastic anemia that makes people tired and weak. Two steps are required for the body to absorb vitamin B12 from food. Vitamin B12 is found in almost all multivitamins. Dietary supplements that contain only vitamin B12, or vitamin B12 with nutrients such as folic acid and other B vitamins, are also available.
Vitamin K deficiency bleeding, or VKDB, occurs when babies cannot stop bleeding because their blood does not have enough Vitamin K to form a clot, which would prevent bleeding out and major blood loss. 
Vitamin E is also important in helping your body make red blood cells, and it helps the body to use vitamin K. People who can't absorb fat properly may develop vitamin E deficiency. Symptoms of serious vitamin E deficiency include: 1  Muscle weakness. 2  Loss of muscle mass. 3  Abnormal eye movements. 4  Vision problems. Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin found in many foods, fats, and oils. It is also an antioxidant, a substance that may help prevent damage to the body's cells. Antioxidants may provide protection against serious diseases including heart disease and cancer
It could have been worse—a severe vitamin B 12 deficiency can lead to deep depression, paranoia and delusions, memory loss, incontinence, loss of taste and smell, and more. The human body needs vitamin B 12 to make red blood cells, nerves, DNA, and carry out other functions. The average adult should get 2.4 micrograms a day. Like most vitamins, B 12 can’t be made by the body. Instead, it must be gotten from food or supplements. Plants don’t make vitamin B 12. The only foods that deliver it are meat, eggs, poultry, dairy products, and other foods from animals. Strict vegetarians and vegans are at high risk for developing a B 12 deficiency if they don’t eat grains that have been fortified with the vitamin or take a vitamin supplement.