You would make $400 by the end of the week. You get 20.00 per hour. You will get 40.00 for two hours (20.00 x 2), 60.00 for three hours (20.00 x3).....Do you see the pattern? … What do you have to do to get the earnings for 20 hours. Some types of labor are also exempt, and tipped labor must be paid a minimum of $2.13 per hour, as long as the hourly wage plus tipped income result in a minimum of $5.85 per hour.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. It depends which store, not much above minimum wage tbh, but more the closer you are to london. they do get a beasty staff discount though, and some stores will let sales assistants choose clothes from the store to wear to work. Some types of labor are also exempt, and tipped labor must be paid a minimum of $2.13 per hour, as long as the hourly wage plus tipped income result in a minimum of $5.85 per hour.
On the FAQ on the Jack Wills websi … te it says: Q: How do I work for Jack Wills? A: For a job in store, send your cv in to the store manager at the store you wish to work. You can email the store manager direct at storename@jackwills.com. How old do you have to be to work at jack wills? You have to be atleast 16 to become a model for Jack Wills, but if you just want to work at Jack Wills I don't think there is an age limit.
i do not know     Actually, it depends on where you live. The average pay for a NP is $86,857 annually(yrly) in the Unites States.   The hours thing I dont rea … lly know but i googled it for you and got this on yahoo answers:   --Certainly over 40 if full time, but up to 60 or more. How old do you have to be to work at jack wills? You have to be atleast 16 to become a model for Jack Wills, but if you just want to work at Jack Wills I don't think there is an age limit.
75 % sounds too much tbh No, my friend works at Jack Wills and gets 75% off her uniform, so that's an entire outfit, which she get s to keep and it gets replaced once a term so you can build up quite a collection. But the basic discount is about 25% or something, yea. (Original post by aleathiel). 
The average Jack Wills salary ranges from approximately £10,000 per year for Sales Assistant to £32,000 per year for Store Manager. 
I have numerous friends that work at a Jack Wills in Chester... It's 75% off for staff (I think) well at least I remember it being high and I believe you are allowed to pick what you want to wear for that day at work but it has to be from their company obvs. 75% doesn't sound right though, it's generally more like 10% or 15%.
THE COMPANY. Jack Wills was founded in 1999 by Peter Williams and Robert Shaw, the former naming the company after his grandfather, Jack Williams. The Aubin & WIlls followed in 2008. Jack Wills are one the fastest growing retailers in the UK and are one of the only brands to have won the coveted FastTrack Best Brand Award two years in a row. Although expanding internationally, CEO Peter Williams has stated that the brand will remain “British, British, British.