An Ogive (cumulative frequency graph) is a graph that represents the cumulative frequencies of the classes in a frequency distribution. It shows the data below or above a particular value. The two types of Ogives are less than Ogive and greater than or more than Ogive. Cumulative relative frequency distribution is the ratio of the cumulative frequency to the size of the sample. The relative cumulative frequency or percentage cumulative frequency is the cumulative frequency divided by the total frequency. A cumulative relative frequency distribution shows the proportion of data items and can be computed either by summing the relative frequencies in the relative frequency distribution
Example. In the data set faithful, the cumulative relative frequency distribution of the eruptions variable shows the frequency proportion of eruptions whose durations are less than or equal to a set of chosen levels. The cumulative relative frequency distribution of a quantitative variable is a summary of frequency proportion below a given level. The relationship between cumulative frequency and relative cumulative frequency is:
In this frequency distribution, the frequencies of succeeding classes are added to the frequency of a class. It is constructed by subtracting the first class second class frequency from the total, third class frequency from that and so on. The upward cumulation result in the greater than or more than cumulative series. Cumulative relative frequency distribution is the ratio of the cumulative frequency to the size of the sample. The relative cumulative frequency or percentage cumulative frequency is the cumulative frequency divided by the total frequency. A cumulative relative frequency distribution shows the proportion of data items and can be computed either by summing the relative frequencies in the relative frequency distribution
The cumulative frequency of a set of data or class intervals of a frequency table is the sum of the frequencies of the data up to a required level. It can be used to determine the number of items that have values below a particular level. Data Analysis cumulative frequency tables. 
In this frequency distribution, the frequencies of all preceding classes are added to the frequency of a class. It is constructed by adding the first class frequency to second class frequency that to the third class frequency and so on. The downward cumulation result in the less than cumulative series. Cumulative relative frequency distribution is the ratio of the cumulative frequency to the size of the sample. The relative cumulative frequency or percentage cumulative frequency is the cumulative frequency divided by the total frequency. A cumulative relative frequency distribution shows the proportion of data items and can be computed either by summing the relative frequencies in the relative frequency distribution
Cumulative frequency analysis is the analysis of the frequency of occurrence of values of a phenomenon less than a reference value. The phenomenon may be time-or space-dependent. Cumulative frequency is also called frequency of non-exceedance. Cumulative frequency analysis is performed to obtain insight into how often a certain phenomenon (feature) is below a certain value. This may help in describing or explaining a situation in which the phenomenon is involved, or in planning interventions, for example in flood protection.
The quotient between the cumulative frequency of a particular value and the total number of data is called as relative cumulative frequency. It is calculated by dividing the cumulative frequency in a frequency distribution by the total number of data points. The cumulative frequency is mostly used while analyzing the data, where the value of the cumulative frequency represents the number of samples in the data, that lie below the current value. It is also useful while displaying the data using the histograms.
In statistics, it is the running total of all frequencies. Cumulative frequency corresponding to a particular value is the sum of all the frequencies up to and including that value. For example, the below cumulative frequency table displays the valconic eruption between 1991 to 2000. The cumulative frequency is mostly used while analyzing the data, where the value of the cumulative frequency represents the number of samples in the data, that lie below the current value. It is also useful while displaying the data using the histograms.
Cumulative frequency is used to determine the number of observations that lie above (or below) a particular value in a data set. The cumulative frequency is calculated using a frequency distribution table, which can be constructed from stem and leaf plots or directly from the data. The cumulative frequency is calculated by adding each frequency from a frequency distribution table to the sum of its predecessors. The last value will always be equal to the total for all observations, since all frequencies will already have been added to the previous total. 