A renal, nephrology or dialysis nurse is responsible for the care of patients with kidney disease. Nephrology is the branch of medicine that deals with the kidney. This type of nurse may work in clinics, homes or hospitals; her duties range from educating patients to operating dialysis equipment. In addition to caring for patients, a renal nurse must perform clerical tasks and report to physicians as needed. A renal nurse is a specialist in the field of nephrology and must be a registered nurse.
Renal Nursing. Renal nursing, which is frequently named alongside dialysis nursing, involves working with patients who have had renal or kidney failure. Patients who need health care in this field are often suffering from diabetes, lupus, or renal disease, also called kidney disease. Renal nursing involves educating, training, and managing renal patients with diabetes to try to reduce complications and improve the patient’s health. In renal and dialysis nursing, nurses focus on renal and hematologic systems, managing fluid and electrolytes, monitoring hemodynamics, and having vascular access.
Role Description: Nephrology nursing is a specialized area of nursing that is directed towards individuals with kidney disease, and their families. Nephrology nurses function in many settings from bedside to the business side. The nephrology nurse is responsible for the care of pediatric and adult patients with kidney disease. The nephrology nurse in the dialysis setting may be involved in the delivery of primary nursing care for patients with CKD. Responsibilities include: 1  Nursing assessment. 2  Identification of risk factors
Essential Information. A renal dialysis nurse, also called a nephrology nurse, is a certified registered nurse specializing in caring for patients with inherited or acquired kidney disease who need hemodialysis treatment. Renal dialysis nurses can work in acute or chronic care settings like hospitals, homes, clinics or doctor's offices. 
Dialysis nurses, also called renal or nephrology nurses, focus on conditions of the kidney. When the kidneys fail, toxins build up in the body that must be regularly removed. In addition, the balance of fluid and electrolytes in the body is altered. 
NEPHROLOGY NURSE Background: Nephrology nurses use the nursing process to care for patients of all ages who are experiencing, or are at risk for, kidney disease. Nephrology nurses are registered nurses (RNs) with specialized education and experience in caring for patients who are experiencing, or are at risk for, kidney disease. Nephrology nurses continually update their education through a variety of programs, publications, and special activities.
A renal nurse provides dialysis care. Dialysis cleanses the body of toxins, which is the function of healthy kidneys. In patients whose kidneys do not function properly, dialysis is used. Renal nurses help dialysis patients feel more comfortable, ensure dialysis equipment is working properly, and provide general nursing care. 
Equipment. The renal nurse receives specialized training on the use and care of kidney-specific equipment, including dialysis machines that clean the patient's blood of waste products and excess water. A dialysis machine uses a membrane to filter the blood. In addition to caring for patients, a renal nurse must perform clerical tasks and report to physicians as needed. A renal nurse is a specialist in the field of nephrology and must be a registered nurse.