A stratified squamous epithelium consists of more than one (typically many) layers, or strata, of epithelial cells (see figure). 
Squamous. Squamous means scale-like. simple squamous epithelium is a single layer of flat scale-shaped cells. Both the endothelial lining of blood vessels and the mesothelial lining of the body cavities are simple squamous epithelium. Try to identify the simple squamous epithelia in these pictures. 
1). simple epithelium that composed of a single layer of cells. squamous epithelium that composed of flattened platelike cells. stratified epithelium epithelium made up of cells arranged in layers. 
Stratified epithelium is also a lining tissue which provides protection for underlying tissues. Stratified epithelia are normally found in places where there is a great deal of wear and tear. Frequently, the outer surface of these epithelia is sloughed off and replaced by cells below it. There are two types of stratified squamous epithelium. In areas where the tissue is subjected to drying it may be keratinized. In keratinized stratified squamous epithelium the outermost layer is composed of tightly packed dead cells filled with the protein keratin.
Stratified squamous epithelium is a type of tissue that makes up skin layers and lines some body cavities and organs. Its structure makes it an excellent protective layer. Learn more about this tissue and take a short quiz at the end. Lesson Summary. Stratified squamous epithelium is a type of tissue found covering and lining parts of the body. In this tissue, cells are flattened, joined tightly together, and stacked. The major function of this tissue type is protection, as it is found in areas that undergo wear-and-tear.
A simple squamous epithelium is a single layer of flat cells in contact with the basal lamina (one of the two layers of the basement membrane) of the epithelium. This type of epithelium is often permeable and occurs where small molecules pass quickly through membranes via filtration or diffusion. Simple squamous epithelia are found in capillaries, alveoli, glomeruli, and other tissues where rapid diffusion is required. Cells are flat with flattened/rounded nucleus. It is also called pavement epithelium due to its tile-like appearance
1 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 2  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface. 3  Regardless of whether the surface cells are squamous, cuboidal, or columnar, the underlying cells are usually cuboidal. Simple squamous epithelium may be located at sites of rapid diffusion, such as the lining of lung alveoli, the lining of blood vessels (called endothelium), and at sites where very little activity is occuring, such as Bowman's capsule in the kidney and the lining of major body cavities (called mesothelium).
(Redirected from Squamous epithelium). In anatomy, squamous epithelium (squama- + -ous) is that whose outermost (apical) layer consists of thin, flat cells called squamous epithelial cells. The epithelium may be composed of one layer of these cells, in which case it is referred to as simple squamous epithelium, or it may possess multiple layers, referred to then as stratified squamous epithelium. Squamous epithelial cells have a polygonal appearance when viewed from above