Treatment consists of managing the symptoms of vestibular neuritis, treating a virus (if suspected), and participating in a balance rehabilitation program. Managing symptoms. When vestibular neuritis first develops, the focus of treatment is to reduce symptoms. Tests to help determine if symptoms might be caused by vestibular neuritis include hearing tests, vestibular (balance) tests and a test to determine if a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve has been damaged.
Vestibular neuritis can occur in people of all ages, but is rarely reported in children. The vestibulocochlear nerve sends balance and head position information from the inner ear (see left box) to the brain. Tests to help determine if symptoms might be caused by vestibular neuritis include hearing tests, vestibular (balance) tests and a test to determine if a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve has been damaged.
Vestibular neuritis: Introduction. Vestibular neuritis: A temporary condition which affects the inner ear workings but doesn't impair hearing. It is often caused by an upper respiratory infection. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Vestibular neuritis is available below. 
Hearing is unaffected. Labyrinthitis is a similar syndrome to vestibular neuritis, but with the addition of hearing symptoms (sensory type hearing loss or tinnitus). The symptoms of both vestibular neuritis and labyrinthitis typically include dizziness or vertigo, disequilibrium or imbalance, and nausea. Acutely, the dizziness is constant. After a few days, symptoms are often only precipitated by sudden movements. A sudden turn of the head is the most common “problem” motion
Labyrinthitis can happen after a viral infection or, more rarely, after an infection caused by bacteria. It is often triggered by an upper respiratory infection, such as the flu or a cold. Less often, it may start after a middle ear infection. The infection inflames the vestibular nerve. Your doctor may also call this vestibular neuritis. The two problems have the same symptoms and are treated the same way. See pictures of the inner ear showing the labyrinth and an inflamed
Infections of the Inner Ear. Vestibular neuritis and labyrinthitis are disorders resulting from an infection that inflames the inner ear or the nerves connecting the inner ear to the brain. This inflammation disrupts the transmission of sensory information from the ear to the brain. Bacterial and viral infections. Inner ear infections that cause vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis are usually viral rather than bacterial. Although the symptoms of bacterial and viral infections may be similar, the treatments are very different, so proper diagnosis by a physician is essential.
Labyrinthitis. Labyrinthitis usually refers to an infection of the inner ear. Other names for this condition are vestibular neuritis, vestibular neuronitis and neurolabyrinthitis. Hearing may be affected, and when it is, the term labyrinthitis is used. 
Vestibular neuritis and labyrinthitis are closely related disorders. Vestibular neuritis involves swelling of a branch of the vestibulocochlear nerve (the vestibular portion) that affects balance. Tests to help determine if symptoms might be caused by vestibular neuritis include hearing tests, vestibular (balance) tests and a test to determine if a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve has been damaged.
Vestibular neuritis is a disorder that affects the nerve of the inner ear called the vestibulocochlear nerve. This nerve sends balance and head position information from the inner ear to the brain. Tests to help determine if symptoms might be caused by vestibular neuritis include hearing tests, vestibular (balance) tests and a test to determine if a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve has been damaged.