Marble Countertops. How to Clean: Clean your marble countertops regularly with a damp soft cloth (microfiber works well) to avoid streaks. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. Never let it air dry because marble is prone to water spots. For deeper cleaning, use a ph-neutral dishwashing liquid mixed with warm water. Butcher-Block Countertops. How to Clean: Use warm, soapy water, a mild bleach solution, or a nonabrasive kitchen cleaner to clean laminate countertops. Don't use abrasive cleaning pads. Use a soft toothbrush along seams or along metal edging.
4. Wash counters using a clean white cloth. For best results, use a white cloth, free of excess fibers that could become loose and be left behind on the counter. One possible solution is to use a clean cloth diaper or microfiber cloth. 1  Immerse the cloth in the cleaning solution and wipe counters thoroughly. 1 If the liquid has set, use a hot wet rag to loosen and remove the caked on debris. 2  Wash with warm soapy water and remove crumbs or other debris. 3  Use a basic soapy rag to clear countertops of remaining crumbs, debris or other matter before you thoroughly clean your countertops.
1 Wipe down the granite countertops. 2  You don't need us to tell you how to do this part. 3  Just wipe away any spills or crumbs on your countertop! 4  Dry with a microfiber cloth to avoid streaking. 5  Dry and buff your granite countertop thoroughly with a microfiber cloth or soft terry cloth towel to avoid streaking. 1 Fill the sink with warm water and a mild dish soap, then thoroughly wet a clean dish cloth. 2  Wipe down the granite countertops. 3  You don't need us to tell you how to do this part. 4  Just wipe away any spills or crumbs on your countertop! 5
Use a natural, light soap or marble cleaner for deeper cleaning. If dust or other debris has accumulated a bit on your countertop or floor, dilute a gentle dish soap in a little warm water and use a soft cloth to clean your marble surfaces. 3. Wipe marble with a damp cloth. Use a soft cloth and a little warm water to clean dust and small spills from your marble countertop and floors. Don’t scrub, as this could scratch the marble. Run the cloth over the surface, making a circular motion in the spots that need a little extra pressure
1 Do not wipe the sealant into the granite. 2  Wiping the sealant with a cloth or paper towel absorbs the sealant into the cloth, not into the stone. 3  For best results, resist the urge to wipe the sealant. 4  Let it do its own thing. 1 If the liquid has set, use a hot wet rag to loosen and remove the caked on debris. 2  Wash with warm soapy water and remove crumbs or other debris. 3  Use a basic soapy rag to clear countertops of remaining crumbs, debris or other matter before you thoroughly clean your countertops.
After cleaning the marble countertop, gently polish it to an attractive shine by gently rubbing it with a soft chamois cloth. Buffing the surface with a high-quality car wax, such as Carnauba, will protect the surface and bring back the shine. 
1 Use a microfiber cloth to dry and buff counters. 2  This will not only remove streaks, but enhance the countertop finish and shine. 3  Use a new dry microfiber cloth if the other cloth becomes soggy or wet. 4  A wet cloth won’t allow you to dry the counter so exchange the original cloth for something new. 1 If the liquid has set, use a hot wet rag to loosen and remove the caked on debris. 2  Wash with warm soapy water and remove crumbs or other debris. 3  Use a basic soapy rag to clear countertops of remaining crumbs, debris or other matter before you thoroughly clean your countertops.
5. Use a natural, light soap or marble cleaner for deeper cleaning. If dust or other debris has accumulated a bit on your countertop or floor, dilute a gentle dish soap in a little warm water and use a soft cloth to clean your marble surfaces. 1  Never use vinegar on marble. 3. Wipe marble with a damp cloth. Use a soft cloth and a little warm water to clean dust and small spills from your marble countertop and floors. Don’t scrub, as this could scratch the marble. Run the cloth over the surface, making a circular motion in the spots that need a little extra pressur
1 Just wipe away any spills or crumbs on your countertop! 2  Dry with a microfiber cloth to avoid streaking. 3  Dry and buff your granite countertop thoroughly with a microfiber cloth or soft terry cloth towel to avoid streaking. 4  Shine and disinfect with a water and isopropyl alcohol solution. 1 Fill the sink with warm water and a mild dish soap, then thoroughly wet a clean dish cloth. 2  Wipe down the granite countertops. 3  You don't need us to tell you how to do this part. 4  Just wipe away any spills or crumbs on your countertop! 5