Applications. Pressure transmitters are used in a wide variety of applications. They are used in machinery to warn machine operators of high pressure levels before a disaster takes place. Pressure transmitters also ensure that machines do not apply too much or too little pressure during production. How a Pressure Transmitter Works. There are over 50 types of pressure transmitters that all work differently. Therefore, it is difficult to describe how all of them work within the confines of this article.
A pressure transmitter or pressure sensor is a device that measures pressure in a liquid, fluid, or gas. Pressure transmitters are commonly used to measure pressure inside of industrial machinery in order to alert the user before a catastrophe occurs. How a Pressure Transmitter Works. There are over 50 types of pressure transmitters that all work differently. Therefore, it is difficult to describe how all of them work within the confines of this article.
Measuring liquid pressure is another way that a transmitter can be used in the care and maintenance of costly equipment. As an example, an automobile uses oil as one of the liquids required for operation, and a certain level of oil pressure has to be maintained in order for the vehicle to run properly. The pressure transmitter comes in a number of shapes and sizes. One, referred to as a Bourdon Tube, is designed especially for monitoring non-liquid pressure. They are relatively inexpensive and good for measuring air and gas pressure in compressors. The tubes may be c-shaped, spherical and helical.
Confidence votes 28. Manifold Pressure Sensor. The Manifold Pressure Sensor (also known as the Manifold Absolute Pressure Sensor or the Manifold Differential Sensor) is a device that is used to calibrate the fuel delivery on most modern ECU Controlled (computerized) engines. 
A pressure transmitter may be used to ensure that machinery is operating safely and properly. A pressure transmitter may indicate to a car owner when it is time to check oil levels. In pressure transmitters, diaphragms are connected to variable resistors. The pressure transmitter comes in a number of shapes and sizes. One, referred to as a Bourdon Tube, is designed especially for monitoring non-liquid pressure. They are relatively inexpensive and good for measuring air and gas pressure in compressors. The tubes may be c-shaped, spherical and helical.
A pressure sensor measures pressure, typically of gases or liquids. Pressure is an expression of the force required to stop a fluid from expanding, and is usually stated in terms of force per unit area. A pressure sensor usually acts as a transducer; it generates a signal as a function of the pressure imposed. For the purposes of this article, such a signal is electrical. Pressure sensors are used for control and monitoring in thousands of everyday applications. This sensor measures the pressure relative to atmospheric pressure. A tire pressure gauge is an example of gauge pressure measurement; when it indicates zero, then the pressure it is measuring is the same as the ambient pressure. 1  Vacuum pressure sensor.
The conversion of pressure into an electrical signal is achieved by the physical deformation of strain gages which are bonded into the diaphragm of the pressure transducer and wired into a wheatstone bridge configuration. Introduction to Pressure Transducers and Transmitters. A pressure transducer, often called a pressure transmitter, is a transducer that converts pressure into an analog electrical signal. Although there are various types of pressure transducers, one of the most common is the strain-gage base transducer
How They Work. Our pressure transmitters, also known as pressure transducers, use piezoresistive technology to accurately measure pressure. This is based off of a small circuit called a Wheatstone bridge attached to the back of a diaphragm. 