Tokyo History-Tokyo history from 1457 to the modern times. Tokyo's former name was Edo also spelled Yedo (archaic). 1457 As ordered by Uesugi Mochitomo, the construction of Edo Castle begins in what is now the East Garden of the Kokyo Imperial Palace. Ota Dokan, Uesugi's vassal, is assigned the task. 
, English /ˈtoʊki.oʊ/), officially Tokyo Metropolis (東京都, Tōkyō-to) , is one of the 47 prefectures of Japan, and is both the capital and largest city of Japan. The Greater Tokyo Area is the most populous metropolitan area in the world. It is the seat of the Emperor of Japan and the Japanese government. Tokyo was originally known as Edo (江戸) , which means  estuary . Its name was changed to Tokyo (東京 Tōkyō; 東 tō east, and 京 kyō capital) when it became the imperial capital in 1868, in line with the East Asian tradition of including the word capital (京) in the name of the capital city.
Tokyo has one of the world's most extensive, fast, and efficient metro/subway system. The complex network of subway lines is operated by two companies-the Toei Subway Line (run by the Tokyo Metropolitan Bureau of Transportation) with four lines and Tokyo Metro (operated by Tokyo Metro Co. Ltd.) with nine lines. Click the metro/subway map to the right to see the Tokyo Metro/Subway map. To find Tokyo hotels organized by location or to see a complete list of Tokyo Hotels that we represent visit our Tokyo Hotel Guide where you can see where hotels are located near specific Metro/Subway and train station stops.
There are two primary subway operators in Tokyo: 1  Tokyo Metro – Formerly the Teito Rapid Transit Authority (TRTA), it was privatized in 2004. 2  It currently operates 179 stations on nine lines and 195.1 kilometers (121.2 mi) of route. There are two primary subway operators in Tokyo: 1  Tokyo Metro – Formerly the Teito Rapid Transit Authority (TRTA), it was privatized in 2004. 2  Toei Subway – run by the Tokyo Metropolitan Bureau of Transportation, an agency of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government.
Tokyo Metro is a rapid transit system serving the capital city of Japan. It is the world's busiest subway with 3.16 billion annual passenger rides (2010) and a daily ridership of 6.31 million people. Tokyo Metro is the world's busiest subway with a daily ridership of 6.31 million passengers. Tokyo Metro is operated by Tokyo Metro Co. Metro signalling takes place through the Cab Signalling-Automatic Train Control System.
(move cursor over subway line name to highlight a single line). Tokyo Metro (formerly known as Eidan) is one of Tokyo 's two subway operators. It runs nine of the metropolis' thirteen subway lines, while Toei operates the other four. While the nine Tokyo Metro lines provide access to many of Tokyo 's city centers and tourist attractions, they alone do not provide the perfect solution for getting around Tokyo. Instead, they are best used in combination with the Toei subway lines and the urban JR lines, especially the JR Yamanote Line.
Tokyo (, Tōkyō) is Japan's capital and the world's most populous metropolis. It is also one of Japan's 47 prefectures, consisting of 23 central city wards and multiple cities, towns and villages west of the city center. The Izu and Ogasawara Islands are also part of Tokyo. Prior to 1868, Tokyo was known as Edo. 
Tokyo Metro. The Tokyo subway system is one of the largest and busiest in the world. There are 13 lines, 8 operated by Tokyo Metro or (TRTA) Teito Rapid Transit Authority (formerly Eidan Subways) and 4 lines managed by Toei Subway run by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. 
The Tokyo subway (東京の地下鉄, Tōkyō no chikatetsu) is a part of the extensive rapid transit system that consists of Tokyo Metro and Toei Subway in the Greater Tokyo area of Japan. There are two primary subway operators in Tokyo: 1  Tokyo Metro – Formerly the Teito Rapid Transit Authority (TRTA), it was privatized in 2004. 2  Toei Subway – run by the Tokyo Metropolitan Bureau of Transportation, an agency of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government.