Basically, cephalization is the process which enables organisms to have a brain. At an intermediate level of this process, organisms may also possess ganglia, which refer to groups of nerve cells or mini control centers that are scattered throughout their bodies. The neurons become concentrated in the head region and allows the brain of the organism to be situated in one place. Cephalization is beneficial because it allows a complex brain to be developed.
Platyhelminthes. Members of the phylum Platyhelminthes are flatworms, such as the planarian. Grubs and tapeworms are other examples of flatworms. Flatworms display bilateral symmetry; that is, the left and right halves of the body are mirror images of one another. Another characteristic of the platyhelminthes is cephalization.Cephalization means that one end of the animal functions as a head. The “head” contains a mass of nerve cells that acts as a brain and specialized regions for sensing light, chemicals, and pressure.
The flatworms, or Platyhelminthes, Plathelminthes, or platyhelminths (from the Greek πλατύ, platy, meaning flat and ἕλμινς (root: ἑλμινθ-), helminth- , meaning worm) are a phylum of relatively simple bilaterian, unsegmented, soft-bodied invertebrates. 
The evolutionary trend in cephalization is that more advanced organisms have a larger concentration of neurons at one end of their body. However, this is not always the case. Some organisms, such as starfish, are considered evolutionarily advanced by certain categorizations, but they did not undergo cephalization. 
Cephalization is considered an evolutionary trend, whereby nervous tissue, over many generations, becomes concentrated toward one end of an organism. This process eventually produces a head region with sensory organs. Cephalization is intrinsically connected with a change in symmetry. It accompanied the move to bilateral symmetry made in flatworms, with ocelli and pinnae placed in the head region.
Flatworms live in many environments. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Flatworms, also called planarians, belong to the phylum Platyhelminthes. Characterized by flat bodies, they have no circulatory or respiratory organs and a very simple digestive tract. This body plan limits them to very small, flat shapes to allow them to absorb oxygen and moisture
Phylum Platyhelminthes (the flatworms) ~1300 species ie: Planarians, Tapeworms, Flukes Some are free living and some are parasitic. Soft, flattened worms with tissues and internal organ systems. The simplest animals to have 3 germ layers, bilateral symmetry, and cephalization. 
Even hydras, which are primitive, radially symmetrical cnidarians, show some degree of cephalization. They have a “head” where their mouth, photoreceptive cells, and a concentration of neural cells are located. Flatworms (phylum Platyhelminthes) are the most primitive animals with bilateral symmetry. They also have a fairly advanced degree of cephalization, with sense organs (photosensory and chemosensory cells) and a brain concentrated at the anterior end. This process eventually produces a head region with sensory organs. Cephalization is intrinsically connected with a change in symmetry. It accompanied the move to bilateral symmetry made in flatworms, with ocelli and pinnae placed in the head region.
Cephalization refers to an evolutionary trend by which the neurons of an organism are concentrated towards one end of the body. The neurons become concentrated in the head region and allows the brain of the organism to be situated in one place. Cephalization is beneficial because it allows a complex brain to be developed. Together with the bilateral body plan, a complex brain enables an organism to make complex and quick movements
Definition of CEPHALIZATION. : a tendency in the evolution of organisms to concentrate the sensory and neural organs in an anterior head. ADVERTISEMENT. noun ceph·a·li·za·tion. : an evolutionary tendency to specialization of the body with concentration of sensory and neural organs in an anterior head. Medical Definition of CEPHALIZATION