Hey Joe  is an American popular song from the 1960s that has become a rock standard and as such has been performed in many musical styles by hundreds of different artists. Hey Joe tells the story of a man who is on the run and planning to head to Mexico after shooting his unfaithful wife. Hey Joe was the last song Jimi Hendrix performed at the Woodstock festival in 1969 and as such, it was also the final song of the whole festival. The song was performed after the crowd, comprising the 80,000 who hadn't yet left the festival, cheered for an encore.
It was recorded by Carl Smith for Columbia Records on 19 May 1953 and spent eight weeks at #1 on the U.S. country music chart. Later in 1953, Kitty Wells recorded an answer record also titled Hey Joe which hit number eight on the Jukebox Country & Western chart. Hey Joe  is a 1953 popular song written by Boudleaux Bryant.
The Byrds included a recording of the song, titled Hey Joe (Where You Gonna Go), on their 1966 album, Fifth Dimension. The lead vocalist on The Byrds' version was David Crosby, who was instrumental in bringing the song to the group and in popularising the song within the larger L.A. music community. Hey Joe was the last song Jimi Hendrix performed at the Woodstock festival in 1969 and as such, it was also the final song of the whole festival. The song was performed after the crowd, comprising the 80,000 who hadn't yet left the festival, cheered for an encore.
Patti Smith released a cover of the song as the A-side of her first single, Hey Joe b/w  Piss Factory , in 1974. The arrangement of Smith's version is based on a recording by blues guitarist Roy Buchanan that was released the previous year (and dedicated to Hendrix). Hey Joe was the last song Jimi Hendrix performed at the Woodstock festival in 1969 and as such, it was also the final song of the whole festival. The song was performed after the crowd, comprising the 80,000 who hadn't yet left the festival, cheered for an encore.
Angel  (also known as  Sweet Angel ) is a song by Jimi Hendrix, originally released on his 1971 posthumous album The Cry of Love. It was written by Hendrix and recorded at Electric Lady Studios on July 23rd 1970 with drummer Mitch Mitchell and bassist Billy Cox – The Cry of Love. It can be assumed that Hendrix wrote the music for Angel as early as 1967, as it first appeared in the form of a demo for  Little Wing  recorded at Olympic Sound Studios on October 14. The song became Angel not long after this, when the first recording under the name Sweet Angel took place just one month later.
The song, released as the lead single to the album, was a top-10 country hit that year. Hey Joe is not the same song as Jimi Hendrix 's first UK hit in 1967— Hey Joe . It was Bryant's first number-one record. He later wrote songs with his wife Felice for The Everly Brothers. Hey Joe  is a 1953 popular song written by Boudleaux Bryant.
'Hey Joe' (Hey Joe, where you goin' with that gun in your hand..) is credited to William 'Billy' Roberts and was first recorded in 1965 by the Leaves and the Surfaris. Another 'Hey Joe', a honky tonk song, was written by Boudleaux Bryant in 1953 and recorded by Carl Smith and also Kitty Wells. 
Moe Bandy and Joe Stampley recorded a new version of the song with the modified title: Hey Joe, Hey Moe, with lyrics specially rewritten for the project by Boudleaux Bryant, as the title song to a duet album issued in 1981. Hey Joe  is a 1953 popular song written by Boudleaux Bryant.
Hey Joe  is a song written by Billy Roberts and first recorded by The Leaves, originally released as a single in November 1965. The Jimi Hendrix Experience recorded a cover version of the song at De Lane Lea Studios on October 23rd, 1966, and released it on their 1967 debut album Are You Experienced. Hey Joe was released as the first single in the United Kingdom on December 16th, 1966, and was backed with  Stone Free . It was later released in the United States on May 1st, 1967 backed with  51st Anniversary .