Unlike a linear power supply, the pass transistor of a switching-mode supply continually switches between low-dissipation, full-on and full-off states, and spends very little time in the high dissipation transitions, which minimizes wasted energy. Switched-mode power supplies may also be substantially smaller and lighter than a linear supply due to the smaller transformer size and weight.
Please sign in to vote on this Guide. Below is the Difference between Switch Mode (Switching / Regulated) and Linear (Unregulated) Power Supplies. Switch Mode (Regulated). A switched-mode power supply (SMPS) works on a different principle. AC mains input is directly rectified without the use of a transformer, to obtain a DC voltag
The newest designs offer persuasive advantages compared with linear power supply technology. Power supplies serve extensive wireless communications applications. Basic distinctions between linear and switching power supplies make a difference, depending on the specific application. Each type has its own advantages and disadvantages. Transformers Power supplies contain two main circuits: a primary side and a secondary side. The ..
In these cases, a low-dropout (LDO) linear regulator is generally used as a low-cost, high-accuracy, and easy-to-implement power supply solution. However, a switch-mode power supply (SMPS) more easily meets other possible system design goals such as efficiency and battery run time. Differences Between LDOs And SMPSs. 
A Switching DC power supply (also known as switch mode power supply) regulates the output voltage through a process called pulse width modulation (PWM). The PWM process generates some high frequency noise, but enables the switching power supplies to be built with very high power efficiency and small form factor. There are two main designs for the DC power supplies: Linear DC Power Supplies and Switching DC Power Supplies.
A linear power supply operates pretty much like a voltage divider that constantly changes resistance to regulate the output voltage. The current that goes into it is the same as the current that goes out of it and the difference between the input and output is wasted. A linear power supply is often used because of its simplicity. Linear regulators exist in packaged ICs that only need a rectified voltage source to operate. In comparison, a switched mode power supply is very complex and requires a handful of ICs as well as inductors.
The main disadvantage of a switched mode power supply compared to a linear power supply is noise. The voltage oscillations and the constant connecting and disconnecting from the source create too much electrical noise that can interfere with other nearby electronics. A linear power supply is often used because of its simplicity. Linear regulators exist in packaged ICs that only need a rectified voltage source to operate. In comparison, a switched mode power supply is very complex and requires a handful of ICs as well as inductors.
In this regard, there are two very common types of power supply, the linear and the switched mode. The main difference between the two is the way they operate. Linear power supplies provide a constant voltage at all times while the power provided by a switched mode power supply constantly varies. A linear power supply is often used because of its simplicity. Linear regulators exist in packaged ICs that only need a rectified voltage source to operate. In comparison, a switched mode power supply is very complex and requires a handful of ICs as well as inductors.
Briefly, there is very little difference between the various switching power supplies from the brand-name suppliers. But the difference between switchers and linear designs is a matter of weight, efficiency, heat buildup, etc. 