Acetyl CoA is a product of the metabolism of any source of energy — be it protein, fat, or carbohydrate. Acetyl CoA is then changed into various other products (shown in blue) by numerous enzymes (shown in green), until it is converted into several important end products (shown in purple). 
Therefore, like the synthesis of fatty acids, cholesterol biosynthesis depends on the export of acetyl-CoA from the mitochondria. Also as with fatty acids, multiple steps in the cholesterol synthesis require NADPH. Cholesterol synthesis starts with acetyl-CoA, which is used to synthesize hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA). The reactions in this initial stage are the same as in ketogenesis (see slide 10.4.1). However, while ketogenesis occurs in the mitochondria, HMG-CoA destined for sterol synthesis is formed in the cytosol.
In addition to its importance within cells, cholesterol also serves as a precursor for the biosynthesis of steroid hormones, bile acids, and vitamin D. Cholesterol is the principal sterol synthesized by animals. Since cholesterol is essential for all animal life, each cell synthesizes it through a complex process beginning with mevalonate pathway and ending with the 19 step conversion of lanosterol to cholesterol.
Biosynthesis of Cholesterol. Slightly less than half of the cholesterol in the body derives from biosynthesis de novo. Biosynthesis in the liver accounts for approximately 10%, and in the intestines approximately 15%, of the amount produced each day. The terminal reaction in cholesterol biosynthesis is catalyzed by the enzyme 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase encoded by the DHCR7 gene. Functional DHCR7 protein is a 55.5 kDa NADPH-requiring integral membrane protein localized to the microsomal (ER) membrane.
In animals, when there is an oversupply of dietary carbohydrate, the excess carbohydrate is converted to triacylglycerol. This involves the synthesis of fatty acids from acetyl-CoA and the esterification of fatty acids in the production of triacylglycerol, a process called lipogenesis. Fatty acids are made by fatty acid synthases that polymerize and then reduce acetyl-CoA units. Synthesis of bile acids is a major route of cholesterol metabolism in most species other than humans. The body produces about 800 mg of cholesterol per day and about half of that is used for bile acid synthesis.
BioFiles 2007, 2.7, 3. Cholesterol levels in the body come from two sources, dietary intake and biosynthesis. The majority of cholesterol utilized by healthy adults is synthesized in the liver, which produces ~70% of the total daily cholesterol requirement (~1 gram). The other 30% comes from dietary intake. Biosynthesis of cholesterol generally takes place in the endoplasmic reticulum of hepatic cells and begins with acetyl-CoA, which is mainly derived from an oxidation reaction in the mitochondria. However, acetyl-CoA can also be derived from the cytoplasmic oxidation of ethanol by acetyl-CoA synthetase.
The process within the body to produce cholesterol is called cholesterol biosynthesis. It consists of a number of steps which rely on numerous enzymes and processes to reach the final product. Cholesterol is essential for normal functioning of the body, in the right amount. The statins work by inhibiting the action of the enzyme, HMG Co A Reductase, which forms part of cholesterol biosynthesis in the step that produces mevalonate. By inhibiting the enzyme, the conversion to mevalonate is decreased and therefore cholesterol is lowered.
Squalene is converted to cholesterol. Pathway of cholesterol biosynthesis. Synthesis of cholesterol begins with the transport of acetyl-CoA from within the mitochondria to the cytosol. The rate limiting step in cholesterol synthesis occurs at the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reducatase, HMGR, catalyzed step. The terminal reaction in cholesterol biosynthesis is catalyzed by the enzyme 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase encoded by the DHCR7 gene. Functional DHCR7 protein is a 55.5 kDa NADPH-requiring integral membrane protein localized to the microsomal (ER) membrane.