Plants are able to assimilate nitrogen directly in the form of nitrates that may be present in soil from natural mineral deposits, artificial fertilizers, animal waste, or organic decay (as the product of bacteria, but not bacteria specifically associated with the plant). Nitrogen can also be found in many organic compounds. Common nitrogen functional groups include: amines, amides, nitro groups, imines, and enamines. The amount of nitrogen in a chemical substance can be determined by the Kjeldahl method.
Ammonium (NH4+) and nitrate (NO3–) are the predominate inorganic forms of nitrogen in soils. Ammonium exists in exchangeable and nonexchangeable forms. Nitrite (NO2) and nitrous oxide (N2O) are present in soil in lesser quantities. Plants normally use nitrogen in only the ammonium and nitrate forms. Nitrite is actually toxic to plants. Once nitrogen is fixed, it is subject to several chemical reactions which can convert it to different organic or inorganic forms. Mineralization occurs in soil as microorganisms convert organic nitrogen to
Plants take nitrogen from the soil by absorption through their roots as nitrate ions, nitrite ions, or ammonium ions. Most nitrogen obtained by terrestrial animals can be traced back to the eating of plants at some stage of the food chain. The nitrogen cycle is the process by which nitrogen is converted between its various chemical forms. This transformation can be carried out through both biological and physical processes. Important processes in the nitrogen cycle include fixation, ammonification, nitrification, and denitrificatio
Nitrate NO3 Nitrate is the form of nitrogen most used by plants for growth and development. Nitrate is the form that can most easily be lost to groundwater. AmmoniumNitrogen NH4 Ammonium taken in by plants is used directly in proteins. This form is not lost as easily from the soil. Dinitrogen, or atmospheric nitrogen, can also be found in the soil. In addition to dinitrogen, other inorganic and organic forms exist in the soil as well. Organic forms of nitrogen make up a very high percentage of the total nitrogen
Nitrogen form Plants have the ability to take up several chemical forms of nitrogen. The most common are: ammonium (NH 4+), which has a positive charge; nitrate (NO 3-), which has a negative charge; and urea, ((NH 2)2CO), which has no charge. Because nitrogen can be supplied as a positively or negatively charged form, the root substrate pH can be altered. Reprinted from the June 2009 Edition of GMPro Magazine Figure 1. Conversions between nitrogen form and effect of nitrogen uptake on root-zone pH.
Although the atmosphere is mostly made up of nitrogen, it is in the form of a gas known as dinitrogen N2. Plants cannot use this form. Dinitrogen, or atmospheric nitrogen, can also be found in the soil. In addition to dinitrogen, other inorganic and organic forms exist in the soil as well. Organic forms of nitrogen make up a very high percentage of the total nitrogen found in the soil.
Nitrogen form Symbol Use in soils and plants Dinitrogen(Atmospheric Nitrogen) N2 Dinitrogen is the most common form. It makes up 78 percent of the atmosphere but cannot be used by plants. It is taken into the soil by bacteria, some algae, lightning, and other means. Dinitrogen, or atmospheric nitrogen, can also be found in the soil. In addition to dinitrogen, other inorganic and organic forms exist in the soil as well. Organic forms of nitrogen make up a very high percentage of the total nitrogen
Nutrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorus, are essential for plant and animal growth and nourishment, but the overabundance of certain nutrients in water can cause a number of adverse health and ecological effects. Nitrogen, in the forms of nitrate, nitrite, or ammonium, is a nutrient needed for plant growth. Nitrate can also be formed in water bodies through the oxidation of other forms of nitrogen, including nitrite, ammonia, and organic nitrogen compounds such as amino acids. Ammonia and organic nitrogen can enter water through sewage effluent and runoff from land where manure has been applied or stored.