The Kingdom of Belgium has three official languages: Dutch, French, and German. A number of non-official, minority languages and dialects are spoken as well. English is widely spoken throughout Belgium as a second or third language by native Belgians, and is sometimes used as a lingua franca in Brussels. German is the least prevalent official language in Belgium, spoken natively by less than 1% of the population. The German-speaking Community of Belgium numbers 77,000, residing in an area of Belgium that was ceded by the former German Empire as part of the Treaty of Versailles, which concluded World War I.
Brussels, the capital of Belgium, has two official languages: French and Dutch. Luxembourgish is spoken by around 0.5% of the population, but the language has no official status. About 10% of the Belgian population are non-native, and languages spoken include Italian, Spanish, Greek, Arabic and Turkish. Official Languages: French, Dutch and German. Wallon, the local variant of French, is used by 33% of population. Flemish is used by more than 60% of the population, and is spoken in the northern part of the country.
They were successful enough to save Dutch in Belgium, but there was no powerful Walloon Movement to save Walloon. This is the reason why Belgium is made up of about 6,5 million Dutch speakers, 4,5 million French speakers, about 600.000 of those also speak Walloon and about 70.000 German speakers. 
Belgium is a country, which recognises three official languages, Dutch, French and German. There are also a number of unofficial, minority languages spoken here as well. French is spoken predominantly in the area around the capital Brussels and in the region of Wallonia. Globally, around 175 million people speak French. Aside from Belgium, there are forty other countries, which count French as one of their official languages. These include France, Switzerland, Canada, Algeria, Luxembourg, Morocco, Niger, Monaco, Tunisia, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Democratic Republic of Congo, Haiti, Lebanon, and Martinique.
Dutch is the official language of the Flemish Community and the Flemish Region (merged to Flanders) and, along with French, an official language of the Brussels-Capital Region. The main Dutch dialects spoken in Belgium are Brabantian, West Flemish, East Flemish, and Limburgish. German is the least prevalent official language in Belgium, spoken natively by less than 1% of the population. The German-speaking Community of Belgium numbers 77,000, residing in an area of Belgium that was ceded by the former German Empire as part of the Treaty of Versailles, which concluded World War I.
There are 3 official languages in Belgium: Dutch, French and German. Dutch is spoken by +-60% of the people, living in the Northern Flemish region. French is spoken by +- … 40% of the people, living in the Southern Walloon region. The three official languages of Belgium are: French, Flemish(Dutch) and German. English is not one of the official languages of Belgium, but many people speak it in Brus … sels. 2 people found this useful. 1  Europe on a Budget: 21 Free Walking Tours in Europe Walking tours can be a great way to get to know a new city.
Belgian French (French: francais français De) belgique is the variety Of french spoken mainly among The French community Of, belgium alongside Related oil oïl languages of the region Such, As, Walloon picard Champenois (And). lorrain gaumais While the French spoken in Wallonia was influenced by local languages, the variant spoken in Brussels was influenced by Dutch, specifically the local Brabantian dialect. The city, geographically located within the Flanders region, was originally just a Dutch-speaking city.
The largest city and capital of Belgium is Brussels. The city has a population of 1.2 million and serves as the capital of the European Union and is home to the NATO headquarters. There are three official languages in Belgium. Dutch, spoken by just under 60% of the population, mainly by the Flemish to the north in the Flanders area. French is spoken by around 40% of the population and mainly to the south in the Wallonia region. There is a small group of German-speakers in eastern Wallonia. 
The French language spoken in Belgium differs very little from that of France or Switzerland. It is characterized by the use of some terms that are considered archaic in France, as well as loanwords from languages such as Walloon, Picard and Dutch. While the French spoken in Wallonia was influenced by local languages, the variant spoken in Brussels was influenced by Dutch, specifically the local Brabantian dialect. The city, geographically located within the Flanders region, was originally just a Dutch-speaking city.
Like any other country, Belgium also has official languages. These are Dutch, French and German. These three languages are spoken in areas that are more or less delineated. Mid-last century, language areas were delineated on the basis of language use. In Belgium you can speak any language you want. For contacts with the authorities three official languages can be used: Dutch, French and German.These languages are not spoken everywhere, because Belgium is subdivided into federated states.