1. Go to the start menu and choose control panel. 2. Go to Programs and Features or Programs. This is the equivalent of Add or Remove programs in Windows XP. 3. When it is open find the Fast Access software in the list of installed programs. See the screen shot below. 4. When it is selected choose the uninstall icon at the top of the list. 4.
Follow the given below steps to enable or disable the feature. Step 1: Switch to the Start screen. Press Windows + W keys to see the search charm, type Power Options and press enter key to open Power Options window. Step 2: In the left pane of Power Options window, click Choose what the power buttons do. 
To enable it again set it to 1. You should now click on the Change the way users log on or off option. This will bring you to another screen that is similar to the one below. To disable Fast User Switching, uncheck the checkbox labeled Use Fast User Switch and then click on the Apply Options button. To enable Fast User Switching again, you can repeat these steps but this time put a checkbox in that setting. How to disable Fast User Switching in Windows 7, Windows 8, and Windows Vista. Select the Enabled radio button and then click on the Apply button. Finally click on the OK button and close the Group Policy Editor. Fast User Switching should now be disabled. If you want to enable this feature in the future, just go back to the same setting and change it to Not Configured.
You can manually type your password to login, then after you login, right click on the Fast Access icon in the system tray, near the clock, Configure Fast Access, and you'll see... Click on Security, Security Settings, then you can click on Turn Fast Access off. 
If you are using Windows Pro or Ultimate then you can disable Fast User Switching through the Group Policy Editor. To access the Group Policy Editor in Windows Vista and Windows 7, click on the Start button and type in Group Policy. You should then see an option called Edit Group Policy. Select the Enabled radio button and then click on the Apply button. Finally click on the OK button and close the Group Policy Editor. Fast User Switching should now be disabled. If you want to enable this feature in the future, just go back to the same setting and change it to Not Configured.
‎10-09-2013 09:12 AM-edited ‎10-09-2013 09:20 AM. Hi JudoJeff, To remove FastAccess option for login screen, please load windows first. Then launch FastAccess by searching for the apps using Windows key+Q and type in FastAccess. Once FastAccess open and under SECURITY tab, click on TURN FASTACCESS OFF. 
Steps to turn off Fast Start up in Windows 8. 1. Press Windows Key + X and press O or click on Power Options. 2. Click on Choose what power button does. 3. Under Shutdown Settings, uncheck the box beside Turn on fast Startup(Recommended) . Click Save Changes
Now in order to disable this feature you will need to disable the startup entry first in windows startup items. Removing Fast Access Face Recognition in Start Up. Advertisement. Now you need to disable the service related to fast access face recognition as shown in the image below. Now you will need to restart your computer, once you do these things mentioned above, if after restart you still see the Fast Access Face Recognition icon at windows login screen, then to get rid of this feature you will need to uninstall the related software from your computer
To disable Fast User Switching in Windows XP, you first need to enter your Control Panel. To do this, click on the Start Button and then select the Control Panel menu option. When the Control Panel opens, you should double-click on the User Accounts icon. Select the Enabled radio button and then click on the Apply button. Finally click on the OK button and close the Group Policy Editor. Fast User Switching should now be disabled. If you want to enable this feature in the future, just go back to the same setting and change it to Not Configured.
To avoid this, you can turn off the Fast Startup in Windows’ settings. To turn it off, open start screen and enter Power Options. Click Settings tab in the right side and select, Change what the power buttons do from the left side. 