The kneaded eraser is the primary type of eraser that most graphite/charcoal artists use. It picks up the graphite without smearing or damaging the paper. It can be shaped into a point to lift out small highlights in the eyes and hair. 
How to Clean a Kneaded Eraser. Because kneaded erasers absorb graphite, they will become dirtier with use. To clean a kneaded eraser, you can stretch and knead it until the color turns light grey. Eventually they will become too dirty to use as graphite, charcoal, dust or other particles accumulate in the eraser.
Video: The Fuss about Uranium. The history behind your eraser. An eraser is an instrument of stationery used to remove pencil and sometimes pen marks. It is rather interesting to know that before the invention of erasers slabs of wax and breadcrumbs were used to 'wipe out' charcoal or lead marks from paper. 
Two kneaded erasers. A newer eraser is on the left, and an older eraser on the right. The older eraser is darker due to the graphite and charcoal dust that has become incorporated into the eraser. Main article: Eraser. The kneaded eraser, also known as putty rubber, is a tool for artists. It is usually made of a grey or white pliable material (though it can be found in many different colors, ranging from green to blue to hot pink) and resembles putty or gum. It functions by adsorbing and picking up graphite and charcoal particles. Kneaded erasers are also useful for making impromptu sculptures to sketch from. Kneaded erasers are mostly used for slightly erasing but not fully erasing the content of graphite. It has great plasticity and can be molded and shaped into desired forms for ease of usage.
Definition: A putty eraser is a soft, pliable eraser that can easily be shaped with your fingers and is used for erasing (removing) pencil, charcoal, pastel, and similar dry mediums from an artwork. Being pliable makes a putty eraser particularly useful for erasing small areas as you can shape it into a point. 
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2009). Pink erasers. An eraser, (also called a rubber in the UK, Ireland, India, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa, from the material first used) is an article of stationery that is used for removing writing from paper. Erasers have a rubbery consistency and come in a variety of shapes, sizes and colours. 
Get a piece of smooth cloth and rub over your drawing as you work on it. I knead the kneaded eraser into a ball, with two or three erasers in a ball, and as it gets dirty I try to knead the graphite (in my case) or charcoal into it, bringing the clean inside out. Use erasers for highlights. You can tap a page with a kneaded eraser to lighten a particular area. The best erasers are soft ones, like a kneaded eraser or a soft ArtGum eraser. But, the real point is that these lines should only be place with light strokes and repeated for darker lines, not pressed harder into the paper fibers. It is with these light strokes that a complete erasure is even possible.
Best Answer: A kneaded eraser has a consistency like putty. It has a very specific use-unlike every other kind of eraser. The kneaded eraser is used for lifting up graphite from a pencil drawing. Unlike other erasers, the kneaded eraser does not have to be rubbed vigorously over the drawing. It can be placed on a specific area, pressed down, and lifted up, taking with it some-or a lot-of the pencil marks.