Lagos (/ˈleɪɡɒs/ LAY-gos /ˈlɑːɡoʊs/), (Yoruba: Èkó) èkó is the most populous city In, nigeria the second fastest growing city In africa and the sixth most populous in the. world
Expedia.com offers a selection of 90 hotels in Lagos. You are sure to find cheap deals and discount rates among them with our Best Price Guarantee. No matter what type of hotel strikes your fancy, we will let you search for your preferred one to accommodate your travel needs.
As a result, Nigeria determined that its GDP surpassed South Africa’s in 2012 to become the continent’s largest economy. About 15,700 millionaires and a handful of billionaires live in Nigeria, more than 60 percent of them in Lagos.
Lagos. Lagos, the commercial capital of Nigeria, is the largest city in Africa with an estimated population of over 17.5 million inhabitants in the city. The UN estimates that at its present growth rate, Lagos state will be third largest mega city in the world by 2015 after Tokyo in Japan and Mumbai in India.
Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode on Wednesday played Host To The British Minister Of State For Foreign Commonwealth Affairs And DFID, Mr. Grant Shapps And T... Category-General || Posted on 2015-10-14 00:00:00.
As with other African metropolises, oil-enriched Lagos has long nurtured an elite class only marginally inconvenienced by the squalor enveloping the city as a whole. Now the upper class is expanding, and despite persistent income inequality, so is the middle class.
From the beginning, Lagos has expanded on the mainland west of the lagoon and the conurbation, including Ikeja (which is the capital of Lagos State) and Agege, now reaches more than 40 km (25 mi) north-west of Lagos Island.
In a celebration of Lagos and African urbanization, the Financial Times ran a piece by Xan Rice highlighting Nigeria's commercial capital's size, its economic importance, and its government's energy in addressing concrete urban problems. The UN estimated the city's population at 11.2 million in 2011.