They all are on the list of 14 medical conditions approved for treatment with hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT)-breathing 100% oxygen under pressure while fully enclosed in a hyperbaric oxygen chamber. And there are many other conditions not yet officially approved that can benefit from the way HBOT treats disease. HBOT is best known as a treatment for scuba divers with decompression sickness, or the bends'' -when nitrogen bubbles form in the blood and other tissues. HBOT has anti-inflammatory effects, and autism has been associated with inflammation in the brain. Autism also can be caused by other types of insults to the brain, such as birth insults from low oxygen. HBOT treats these scars similar to the way it treats the scars of stroke.
The lung scarring that occurs in pulmonary fibrosis can't be reversed, and no current treatment has proved effective in stopping progression of the disease. Some treatments, though, may improve symptoms temporarily or slow the disease's progress. Others help improve quality of life. 
HBOT helps autism in a variety of ways. HBOT has anti-inflammatory effects, and autism has been associated with inflammation in the brain. Autism also can be caused by other types of insults to the brain, such as birth insults from low oxygen. HBOT treats these scars similar to the way it treats the scars of stroke.
Long-term oxygen therapy is used for COPD if you have low levels of oxygen in your blood (hypoxia). It is used mostly to slow or prevent right-sided heart failure. It can help you live longer. 1 The level of oxygen in airplanes is about the same as the oxygen level at an elevation of 8000 ft (2400 m) . 2  This drop in oxygen can really affect people with COPD. 3  If you normally use oxygen or have borderline-low oxygen levels in your blood, you may need oxygen when you fly.
No, hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) has not been clinically proven to cure or be effective in the treatment of cancer, autism, or diabetes. But do a quick search on the Internet, and you'll see all kinds of claims for these and other diseases for which the device has not been cleared or approved by FDA. 
Some claim that oxygen deficiency or oxygen starvation is an underlying cause of disease and has been increasing because the oxygen content of the earth's atmosphere has been decreasing and junk food does not contain enough oxygen [ A, B, C, D ]. These claims are absurd -- for several reasons. Stephen Barrett, M.D. Various products referred to as stabilized or aerobic oxygen, are being marketed with claims that they can cure disease by increasing oxygen delivery to the cells.
Oxygen therapy is a treatment that provides you with extra oxygen, a gas that your body needs to work well. Normally, your lungs absorb oxygen from the air. However, some diseases and conditions can prevent you from getting enough oxygen. Oxygen therapy may help you function better and be more active. Overview. To learn how oxygen therapy works, it helps to understand how your respiratory system works. This system is a group of organs and tissues that help you breathe. The respiratory system includes the airways and lungs. The airways carry oxygen-rich air to your lungs.
Oxygen treatment increases the amount of oxygen that flows into your lungs and bloodstream. If your COPD is very bad and your blood oxygen levels are low, getting more oxygen can help you breathe better and live longer. There are several ways to deliver the oxygen, including: 1 The level of oxygen in airplanes is about the same as the oxygen level at an elevation of 8000 ft (2400 m) . 2  This drop in oxygen can really affect people with COPD. 3  If you normally use oxygen or have borderline-low oxygen levels in your blood, you may need oxygen when you fly.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) is breathing 100% oxygen while under increased atmospheric pressure. HBOT is a treatment that can be traced back to the 1600s. The first well-known chamber was built and run by a British clergyman named Henshaw. 
If you have severe COPD and low levels of oxygen in your blood, oxygen therapy can help you breathe better. For this treatment, you're given oxygen through nasal prongs or a mask. You may need extra oxygen all the time or only at certain times. COPD has no cure yet. However, lifestyle changes and treatments can help you feel better, stay more active, and slow the progress of the disease. The goals of COPD treatment include: 1  Relieving your symptoms. 2  Slowing