The drive from San Francisco to New York promises rolling fields, rocky mountains and plenty of cheesy roadside attractions. You have a choice of routes; if you're in a hurry, it's possible to drive straight across the country in four or five days, a route that's nearly 3,000 miles long. 
There are miles from New York to Chicago and miles by car. New York and Chicago are far apart (by car). This is the best New York, NY-Chicago, IL route.
The driving distance between Chicago, IL and Albany, NY is approximately 815 miles. The driving time would be approximately 12 hours 30 minutes if you were to travel non-stop … in good driving conditions. The driving distance between Seattle, WA and New York, NY is approximately 2850 miles. The driving time would be approximately 46 hours if you were to travel non-stop in good … driving conditions.
The total driving time is 11 hours, 47 minutes. Your trip begins in New York, New York. It ends in Chicago, Illinois. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from New York, NY to Chicago, IL. You can also calculate the cost to drive from New York, NY to Chicago, IL based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. Since this is a long drive, you might want to stop halfway and stay overnight in a hotel
How long is the drive from Chicago, IL to New York, NY? The total driving time is 12 hours, 17 minutes. Your trip begins in Chicago, Illinois. It ends in New York, New York. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from Chicago, IL to New York, NY. You can also calculate the cost to drive from Chicago, IL to New York, NY based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. Since this is a long drive, you might want to stop halfway and stay overnight in a hotel. More trip calculations. 1  driving distance from Chicago, IL to New York, NY. 2  cost to drive from Chicago, IL to New York, NY. 3  reverse driving time from New York, NY to Chicago, IL. 4  halfway between Chicago, IL and New York, NY. 5  places to stop from Chicago, IL to New York, NY. 6  hotels near New York, NY.
By car. New York and Chicago are connected by the Interstate 80. The distance is about 790 miles (1270 kilometers), what should take 12-14 hours depending on how you drive. When calculating your driving cost, take in consideration that parts of the Interstate 80 are toll roads (Illinois, Indiana, Ohio). Flights between New York and Chicago take around 2 hours 30 minutes. When adding the time to get to the airport and through security, this can easily increase to 6 hours and more. Round trip tickets are usually sold at 160 $ and up.
The driving distance between Chicago, IL and Albany, NY is approximately 815 miles. The driving time would be approximately 12 hours 30 minutes if you were to travel non-stop … in good driving conditions. The Lake Shore Limited leaves Chicago at 10:00 pm and arrives in New York City at 7:25 pm the next day. The train returns to Chicago leaving NY at 3:45 pm and arriving in Chic … ago at 9:45 a
RE: How long will it take me to drive from NYC to Chicago? if me and my bf drive to chicago from new york, about how long do you think it&#39;ll take? it&#39;s about 800 or so miles, and also do you know how the roads are in chicago this time of year? is it snowy at all times during the winter? thanks. Best Answer: I've made the drive every year during the holidays for the past 10 years or so and it usually takes me about 12 hours, give or take, cruising between 70 and 75.