Cook for 2 to 4 hours, until fork tender: Let the pork cook undisturbed for 2 hours, then begin checking it every half hour. Total cooking time will be 2 to 4 hours, depending on the amount of pork and whether it's bone-in (which takes longer to cook). 
Sprinkle the bottom side of the pork roast with seasonings such as pepper, salt, cayenne pepper and garlic. Place the roast into the slow cooker and add seasonings to the top portion of the meat. Pour a bottle of barbecue sauce on top of the roast. You can also add onions to the pot. Close the lid. Any cut of pork roast will work. Even the toughest cuts of meat will become tender cooked in a slow cooker. As with any method of cooking, the bigger the piece of meat you use, the longer it will take to cook.
Turn the slow cooker on high and allow the pork roast to cook at this temperature for one hour. Turn the cooker down to low after the hour and let the pork roast continue cooking. Try not to open the slow cooker's lid during the cooking process, or you will lose heat. Any cut of pork roast will work. Even the toughest cuts of meat will become tender cooked in a slow cooker. As with any method of cooking, the bigger the piece of meat you use, the longer it will take to cook.
6. Cook at a low heat for 8 to 10 hours. Place the cover on the crock pot and begin the lengthy slow cooking process. Slow cooking allows plenty of leeway in terms of cooking time, but, generally, you'll want to cook for roughly 2 hours per pound of meat. Check several times during cooking, adding more liquid if needed. Roast uncovered in the oven for about 1 hour per pound of meat. You may reduce the heat as needed if the pork appears to be cooking too quickly-many recipes call for 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius) rather than 350 (177 C).
Pork shoulder is best when it's cooked long and slow. Roast uncovered in the oven for about 1 hour per pound of meat. You may reduce the heat as needed if the pork appears to be cooking too quickly-many recipes call for 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius) rather than 350 (177 C).
1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees F for 15 minutes. 2  Place the roast in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature down to 200 degrees F. 3  Roast for about 4 hours or until the meat is falling-apart tender (cooking time will vary depending on the size of the roast). 1 Place the roast in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature down to 200 degrees F. 2  Roast for about 4 hours or until the meat is falling-apart tender (cooking time will vary depending on the size of the roast). 3  Stir the salt and black pepper into the juice (do not omit the salt!). 4  Slice meat as desired.
1 Cook the pork roast in a slow cooker, for the most tender roast. 2  Place the brown roast in the slow cooker for approximately 6 hours on low. 3  If your roast is extremely large, you may want to cut it into a few pieces. 1 Cook the pork roast in the oven on 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Celsius). 2  Cooking time will be 35 minutes per lb. (0.45kg) of meat. 3  A pork roast with the bone in will cook faster than a boneless roast. 4  It will result in a crispier surface texture with less moisture
Turn the slow cooker to low and cook 4-6 hours or until the greens are tender and are a gray-green color. Remove the salt pork before serving. If you're in a hurry, the greens may be cooked on high for 3-4 hours; stir every hour or so. Notes: If desired, serve with hot pepper vinegar. Confidence votes 56. I use my slow cooker at least 2-3 times a week. Depending upon the recipe, I would say about 6-10 hours-on low-depending upon the type of meat (i.e., pork chops, pork roast, pork loin, etc.).
1 Cover tightly. 2  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F for 15 minutes. 3  Place the roast in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature down to 200 degrees F. 4  Roast for about 4 hours or until the meat is falling-apart tender (cooking time will vary depending on the size of the roast). 1 Place the roast in the oven and immediately reduce the temperature down to 200 degrees F. 2  Roast for about 4 hours or until the meat is falling-apart tender (cooking time will vary depending on the size of the roast). 3  Stir the salt and black pepper into the juice (do not omit the salt!). 4  Slice meat as desired.