Kundalini yoga envisions seven chakras in the body. They are located along the spine, starting at the base of the spine and extending above the head. Each has a Sanskrit name and an associated color, mantra -- or sound -- and symbol for visualization. Moreover, each is associated with a particular gland
Definition: Chakra is Sanskrit for wheel or circle.. The chakras are centers of energy in the human body. Chakras and the disciplines of working with them originated in Hinduism. In Hinduism the chakras are a feature of Kundalini-Yoga and Hindu Tantra.
A chakra is an area in the body connected with life energy. There are seven chakras in the body-each is an interface for the flow of life energy. A chakra vitalizes a physical body and is associated with interactions of a physical, mental nature. Current science is not able to detect or measure chakras.
The following terms are associated with the chakra. The definitions reflect beliefs held by many Hindus, Buddhists and practitioners of Yoga: Prana life energies found in parts of the body, also called subtle winds. Subtle body similar to a soul, this is a body of energy containing the chakras.
Various scriptural texts and teachings present a different number of chakras. It's believed that there are many chakras in the subtle human body, according to the tantric texts, but there are seven chakras that are considered to be the most important ones.
Visage/Stockbyte/Getty Images. The concept of vortices of subtle energy in the body, or chakras, is one that is familiar to anyone who has studied meditation or Eastern medicine. Although not everyone uses the same chakra system, all the systems in existence have a common root.
Alternative title: cakra. To From Subject Comments. Chakra, also spelled Cakra, Sanskrit C̣akra, (“wheel”), any of a number of psychic-energy centres of the body, prominent in the occult physiological practices of certain forms of Hinduism and Tantric Buddhism.
In some Indian religions, a chakra (Sanskrit cakra, wheel) is thought to be an energy point or node in the subtle body. Chakras are believed to be part of the subtle body, not the physical body, and as such, are the meeting points of the subtle (non-physical) energy channels called nadi. Nadi are believed to be channels in the subtle body through which the life force (prana) (non-physical) or vital energy (non-physical) moves.