Tiger snakes have highly potent venom and can cause severe envenoming (envenomation) of humans. They are a major cause of snakebites and occasional snakebite deaths in Australia at present. Envenoming (envenomation) can cause defibrination coagulopathy, renal (kidney) damage or renal failure (kidney failure).
The Tiger snake Notechis scutatus is a normally timid species which, like most snakes, usually retreats at the approach of a human. They are an interesting snake, though despite the name, they may not have any striping at all.
MEDICAL MANAGEMENT for bites by Tiger Snakes (Notechis species). This person has received a bite and probable envenomation from a Tiger Snake (Notechis species). This is a very venomous and dangerous snake native to Australia, which has caused a significant number of human fatalities.
Tigers are infamously dangerous due to their exceptionally sharp intelligence and their acid-spewing claws. However most tiger-related injuries are due to people being being e … aten by the deadly micro-birds that live in the fur of the Tiger. Tigers are snuggly but the micro-birds will eat you.
A great example of a venomous animal is a rattlesnake. All toxic snakes are venomous and not poisonous, well all of them except one (as with everything in nature there is an exception). The Asian tiger snake is both poisonous and venomous (see below).
As with other venomous snakes causing snakebite in humans, tiger snakes have complex venoms with many components. Only the most important clinically are mentioned here. Overall tiger snake venom is one of the most potent of all known snake venoms, though slightly less potent than common brown snake venom.
It depends on what type of snake. Some are harmless but others could kill you in seconds. In response to the question, snakes are very dangerous.   A word of advice: treet … every snake you see as Dangerous and never provoke a snake, in the wild or a pet.
The tiger snake can grow as long as seven feet long and are recognized by their orange, orange-brown, black and yellow coloration with darker bands of color along the body. The underside of the tiger snake, like that of many snakes is much lighter in color and appears to be yellow to orange in color.