Roberta Cooper Ramo, the first woman to be elected president of the American Bar Association (ABA), was a pathbreaker in many ways. She was also the first ABA president with a technological bent, proselytizing for decades about the need for modern management techniques and computerization in running law firms. 
Meaning of Roberta: Robert is an English variant of the name Robert, which is a variant of the Old English name Hreodbeorht, which is a variant of the Germanic name Hrodebert, which is comprised of the elements hrod fame and beraht bright. close. The meaning of Roberta is  Bright fame . Its origin is  Variant of the English name Robert . Roberta is a form of Robert and is generally pronounced like  reh BUR ta  and  row BER tah .
Robertha /ro-ber-tha/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Old English and Old German derivation, and the meaning of the name Robertha is bright fame. Robertha is an alternate form of Roberta (Old English, Old German): feminine of Robert. Compare surname Roberti. Kreatif forms: Raybertha, Reibertha, Ribertha. Robertha is an equally uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Robertha and corresponding names. Roberta and Berta are the popular varying forms of Robertha (outside Top 1000) listed in the Top 1000.
Meaning of Roberta. German name. In German, the name Roberta means-Feminine form of Robert: Famed, bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys name since the Middle Ages. Famous Bearers: Scottish national hero Robert the Bruce and novelist Robert Ludlum.. 
Roberta /ro-ber-ta/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced roh-BER-tah. It is of Old English and Old German origin, and the meaning of Roberta is bright fame. Feminine of Robert. Similar to the familiar Alberta. Robbie is used occasionally for boys. Roberta is a very popular first name for females (#185 out of 4276, Top 4%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#63450 out of 150436, Top 42%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Roberta for girls.
Definition of ROBER. : one that robes. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. 
It is also in use as a surname. After becoming widely used in Continental Europe it entered England in its Old French form Robert, where an Old English cognate form (Hrēodbēorht, Hrodberht, Hrēodbēorð, Hroedboerð, Hrœdbœrð) hroedberð hrœdberð had existed Before The. Norman conquest the feminine Version. is roberta Ruprette/a (archaic French). Robert, and also the name Joseph, were in the top 10 most given boys' names in the US for 47 years, from 1925 to 1972. In Italy during the Second World War, the form of the name, Roberto, briefly acquired a new meaning derived from, and referring to the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo Axis.
Roberta-Meaning of Roberta. Tweet. [ 3 syll. ro-ber-ta, rob-e- rta ] The baby girl name Roberta is pronounced Rah-B AH R-Tah in English or Row-B EH R-Taa in Italian and Spanish †. 