Guatemala is not a continent. Guatemala is a country that is  located in Central America. Guatemala is located in between Mexico  and Belize. Continents are the bigger objects within their given space. Antarctica, Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, South America and Australia are the Major Continents of the World. … Of these, Australia is both a continent and a Nation, with no other counties on it. All the other six have many nations on them.
The country of Guatemala is in the North America continent and the latitude and longitude for the country are 14.7162° N, 90.6185° W. 
Guatemala is in Central America, which is considered part of the continent of North America. Guatemala is a country that is  located in Central America. Guatemala is located in between Mexico  and Belize.
Guatemala is not a continent. Guatemala is a country that is  located in Central America. Guatemala is located in between Mexico  and Belize. 1 person found this useful
Guatemala is a country in Central America (part of the overal South America continent). Continents are the bigger objects within their given space. Antarctica, Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, South America and Australia are the Major Continents of the World. … Of these, Australia is both a continent and a Nation, with no other counties on it. All the other six have many nations on them.
Guatemala is a country in Central America (part of the overal South America continent). Guatemala is a country that is  located in Central America. Guatemala is located in between Mexico  and Belize.
Guatemala is in Central America, which is considered part of the continent of North America. Continents are the bigger objects within their given space. Antarctica, Europe, Asia, Africa, North America, South America and Australia are the Major Continents of the World. … Of these, Australia is both a continent and a Nation, with no other counties on it. All the other six have many nations on them.
Good question, in the name of Americo Vespuccio was named AMERICA to the new continent, this was separated in North America, Central America, Insular America and South America. Guatemala is located as the first country in Central America, neighbor of Mexico. brand · 2 years ago. Thumbs up. · just now. Report Abuse. Come on buddies, north america is not a continent, the continent is America, just like that. Guatemala is located in America, specifically in Central America, not the north, not the south.
Guatemala is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of North America. Countries near Guatemala include Belize, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua. 