How Long the Bankruptcy Will Stay on a Credit Report. The type of personal bankruptcy you file will determine the length of time the negative item will remain on your credit report. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for 10 years, while Chapter 13 bankruptcy will remain for 7 years. Explore Alternatives to Bankruptcy. Licensed credit counselors can help you analyze your personal situation, review your debts and determine the type of repayment plan that is most feasible
1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
Details of a bankruptcy order in the UK will stay on your credit file for 6 years. 7 to 10 years depending on the state you live in. Most lenders will consider loans after 2 years. If information is still on you credit history after this time frame you need to dispute with all three major credit bureau agencies. A bankruptcy usually stays on your credit report for 7 years. If you forgetadebt on the bankruptcy petition, it may may be 7 years from the time the bankruptcy petition was am … ended, but otherwise it is from the time the bankruptcy became file.
According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a bankruptcy can only remain on your credit for up to ten years after your filing date. However, a Chapter 13 bankruptcy will typically be removed from your credit report after seven years. 
It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 1 Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 2  Foreclosures: 7 years. 3  Collections: Generally, about 7 years, depending on the age of the debt being collected. 4  Public Records: Generally 7 years, although unpaid tax liens can remain indefinitely.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
by FreeAdvice staff. A bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for up to 10 years, but many credit reporting agencies will remove it after 7. This is similar to the reporting period for late pays or delinquent accounts posted on your credit report, which is also 7 years. 
Chapter 7 will stay on your credit report for 10 years from the date bankruptcy was filed. Chapter 13 typically stays on your credit report for 7 years from the date the bankr … uptcy was filed, however, can remain on your credit report for 10 years. 3 people found this useful. A bankruptcy usually stays on your credit report for 7 years. If you forgetadebt on the bankruptcy petition, it may may be 7 years from the time the bankruptcy petition was am … ended, but otherwise it is from the time the bankruptcy became file.
A Chapter 7 Bankruptcy may stay on your credit report for up to 10 years. A Chapter 13 Bankruptcy may stay on your credit report for up to 7 years. But both may be removed … earlier if the information they are reporting is incorrect, incomplete, misleading, or unverifiable. A bankruptcy usually stays on your credit report for 7 years. If you forgetadebt on the bankruptcy petition, it may may be 7 years from the time the bankruptcy petition was am … ended, but otherwise it is from the time the bankruptcy became file.