In Canada, 4.7 million people (14.2% of the population) reported speaking a language other than English or French most often at home and 1.9 million people (5.8%) reported speaking such a language on a regular basis as a second language (in addition to their main home language, English or French).
In western Canada, namely British Columbia and Alberta, Chinese is the second most common language spoken after English. Punjabi, Tagalog (Filipino), Cree, German and Polish are other languages heard in BC and the Prairie Provinces.
Aboriginal languages are diverse in Canada, but they are fairly thinly spread, with 213,500 people reporting having one of 60 Aboriginal languages as a mother tongue and 213,400 reporting that they speak an Aboriginal language most often or regularly at home.
1 The most common languages were Cantonese, Punjabi, Chinese (non-specified dialect), Urdu and Tamil. 2  Montreal: In Montreal about 626,000 reported speaking an immigrant language most often at home. 3  Nearly a third spoke Arabic (17 percent) and Spanish (15 percent).
Languages Spoken at Home in Canada. In the 2011 Census of Canada, the Canadian population of nearly 33.5 million reported more than 200 languages as their language spoken at home or their mother tongue. About a fifth of Canadians, or nearly 6.8 million people, reported having a mother tongue other than English or French, Canada's two official languages.
Canada is also home to many indigenous languages. Taken together, these are spoken by less than one percent of the population. About .6% Canadians (or 200,725 people) report an Aboriginal language as their mother tongue.
Diversity of Languages in Canada. In the 2011 Census, eighty percent of those who reported that they speak an immigrant language (not English, French or an Aboriginal language) most often at home live in one of the six largest major census metropolitan areas (CMAs)
A multitude of languages are used in Canada. According to the 2011 census, English and French are the mother tongues of 56.9% and 21.3% of Canadians respectively. Over 85% of Canadians have working knowledge of English while 30.1% have a working knowledge of French.
While Canada is a very diverse country where many languages are spoken, most Ontarians speak English. French is the working language in many parts of eastern and northeastern Ontario.