Menopause, or the change of life, can have devastating results on a woman's emotional and physical being. This is especially true with women who have early onset menopause. The change of life is considered to be the last third portion of female's life. This can have great emotional impact on a woman as she comes to terms with the fact that the child bearing years are over. 
Women typically start experiencing hot flashes, mood swings, vaginal dryness and other menopause symptoms when they are going through perimenopause. This stage is generally considered part of the menopause period and can last anywhere from 10 months to four years as the ovaries gradually decrease in estrogen production. 
A. Perimenopause, or menopause transition, begins several years before menopause. It's the time when the ovaries gradually begin to make less estrogen. It usually starts in a woman's 40s, but can start in her 30s or even earlier. Perimenopause lasts up until menopause, the point when the ovaries stop releasing eggs. In the last 1 to 2 years of perimenopause, this drop in estrogen speeds up. At this stage, many women have menopause symptoms. 
Menopause is the time in a woman's life at which she can no longer reproduce. Symptoms of perimenopause, menopause, and postmenopause vary greatly from woman to woman. However, common symptoms of menopause include. 1  Hot flashes. 
Postmenopause follows perimenopause and lasts the rest of your life. The average age of a woman having her last period, menopause, is 51. But, some women have their last period in their forties, and some have it later in their fifties. Smoking can lead to early menopause. So can some types of operations. Changes usually begin with perimenopause. This can begin several years before your last menstrual period. Changing levels of estrogen and progesterone, which are two female hormones made in your ovaries, might lead to symptoms. Menopause comes next, the end of your menstrual periods.
Menopause. Menopause is when a woman’s menstrual period stops permanently. Periods can stop for a while and then start again, so a woman is considered to have been through menopause only after one year without periods. Read on to learn what to expect and ways to stay strong and healthy in the years around menopause. Topics.
Menopause is a natural part of a woman's life cycle. While menopause symptoms can be frustrating and, at times, overwhelming, the process is natural. Understanding this change better will help women get through the symptoms and choose the right treatments for their needs. The average age range is 47 to 55 years. Those who start menopause before age 45 are considered to have early menopause, while those who begin before age 40 are said to have premature menopause. The entire transition takes between four and five years, and during this time women can still get pregnant.
Posted on 10/07/2010 | Comments (). Print. The average American woman enters menopause by age 51, but the hormone level shifts that trigger menopause can actually begin years, even decades earlier. Known as perimenopause, this condition can begin as early as age 35, and lasts anywhere from a few months to 10 years. Perimenopause vs. Menopause. The primary factor distinguishing perimenopause from menopause is menstruation.
Most women begin perimenopause in their forties, but it can start as early as the mid-thirties. Perimenopause is the span of time when you notice that your periods are changing to one year after they completely stop. That’s when menopause begins. The Signs and Symptoms of Perimenopause. 