Origin of the name Nico: Short form of Nikodemos, a Greek compound name composed of the elements nikē (victory) and dēmos (people, population): hence, victory of the people.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.
English Meaning: The name Niko is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Niko is: Abbreviation of Nicholas. Mythological Nike was Greek goddess of victory and root origin of 'Nicholas. American Meaning: The name Niko is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Niko is: Abbreviation of Nicholas. Mythological Nike was Greek goddess of victory and root origin of 'Nicholas.
Meaning of Niko. English name. In English, the name Niko means-Abbreviation of Nicholas. Mythological Nike was Greek goddess of victory and root origin of Nicholas... Other origins for the name Niko include-English, Japanese.The name Niko is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Abbreviation of Nicholas. Mythological Nike was Greek goddess of victory and root origin of Nicholas.. Origin-English.
Origin of the name Nico: Short form of Nikodemos, a Greek compound name composed of the elements nikē (victory) and dēmos (people, population): hence, victory of the people.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
[ 2 syll. ni-ko, nik-o ] The baby boy name Niko is pronounced as N IY-Kow †. Niko is used chiefly in Finnish, German, and Slavic. Its origin is Old Greek. In addition, Niko is a contracted form of the name Nikolaus (German) in the Finnish, German, and Slavic languages as well as a variant of the name Nicholas (English and French) in the Finnish, German, and Slavic languages. The name Nieko (English) is a variant of Niko. Niko is rather popular as a baby boy name
Niko /niko/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Niko). Niko's roots are English and Greek, and the meaning of the name Niko is people of victory. Niko is an alternate spelling of Nick (English, Greek): short variant of Nicholas. Niko is also a derivative of Nico (Greek). Kreatif forms: Neko, Noko, Nuko. 
Niko /niko/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used more commonly as boys' name Niko) is of Greek derivation, and the name Niko means people of victory. Niko is an alternate form of Nicole (Greek): from Nikola. Nika is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Neiko, Neko, Noko. 
Niko is the Slavic and Finnish short form of Nicholas. The name Nicholas is the anglicized spelling of the Greek name “Nikolaos” which is derived from “nikē” (victory) and “laos” (people). 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Niko and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Niko and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Niko for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Niko is a boy name.