The meaning and origin of the American-English Apple of My Eye idiom has been explained above and forms part of the free, online idioms dictionary. An Idiom is a common, everyday phrase or expression or saying whose meaning cannot be understood by the individual words or elements. A phrase, proverb, or slang that is peculiar to a people or to a district, community or class. This is demonstrated by the American-English meaning of the Idiom Apple of My Eye. This example of this common, famous American-English Idiom Apple of My Eye plays a major part in the non-standard common speech, slang or dialect that is natural to the people of the United States and Great Britain.
One's favorite person; the one you love most. In Old English, the pupil of the eye (the round, dark center) was called the 'apple'. It was thought that the pupil was a round object much like an apple (a piece of fruit). When you look at someone, their reflection appears in your pupil. 
The Bible references below (from the King James Version, translated in 1611) contain the English idiom apple of my eye.. However the Hebrew literally says, little man of the eye.. The Hebrew idiom also refers to the pupil, and has the same meaning, but does not parallel the English use of apple.. The earliest appearance of the word is found in King Aelfred's writing in ninth century.
Originally meaning the central aperture of the eye. Figuratively it is something, or more usually someone, cherished above others. 'The apple of my eye' is exceedingly old and first appears in Old English in a work attributed to King Aelfred (the Great) of Wessex, AD 885, titled Gregory's Pastoral Care. It was a phrase meaning the pupil of the eye. So it either meant that it was something centered in your eye or your sight (and therefore of great importance to you) or that it was as important to you as the pretty important part of your body that allowed you to see.
Origin. 'The apple of my eye' is exceedingly old and first appears in Old English in a work attributed to King Aelfred (the Great) of Wessex, AD 885, titled Gregory's Pastoral Care. The phrase was known from those early sources but became more widely used in the general population when Sir Walter Scott included it in the popular novel Old Mortality, 1816: Poor Richard was to me as an eldest son, the apple of my eye.. See also-phrases coined by Sir Walter Scott.
Meaning Originally meaning the central aperture of the eye. Figuratively it is something, or more usually someone, cherished above others. Origin The phrase is exceedingly old and first appears in Old English in a work attributed to King Aelfred (the Great) of Wessex, AD 885, entitled Gregory's Pastoral Care. The key to the whole is the use of the expression in early BIBLE translations, as I'll explain below. _______________ The basic Modern English usage of the expression (e.g., you are the apple of my eye) refers to someone who is very precious to you. But originally the expression was just the Old English way of saying pupil of the ey
Answer by Surfingnoah. Confidence votes 92. The term was originally used in the bible and it was used to signify someone of great worth 'whoever touches you touches the apple of his eye', someone who was very precious. The 'apple of your eye' is the iris or center of the eye. Sink in apple of his eye. Modern usage of this idiom usually refers to something that is especially beloved. The saying originally meant the central aperture of the eye, presumably because apples were the most common sphere-shaped object around.
Wordsmith, world-builder, author. The apple of your eye means a particular preference, or a loved one; the object of somebody's affections. So it means something very dear to you. The idiom apple of your eye comes from the Old Testament of the Bible. It is in 4 verses, Deuteronomy 32:10, Psalm 17:8, Proverbs 7:2, and Zechariah 2:8. We all know that she is the apple of your eye.. This would mean that the female in this expression is the person you desire. 
The meaning and origin of the expression: The apple of my eye. Home Phrase Dictionary-Meanings and Origins The apple of my eye. Browse phrases beginning with: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T UV W XYZ-Full List. Flower of this purple dye, Hit with Cupid’s archery, Sink in apple of his eye. The phrase was known from those early sources but became more widely used in the general population when Sir Walter Scott included it in the popular novel Old Mortality, 1816: Poor Richard was to me as an eldest son, the apple of my eye.. See also-phrases coined by Sir Walter Scott.