The poacher is actually coddling the eggs, not truly poaching them, but if what you want is an egg with a cooked white and runny yolk, this is an easy way to do it. To use an egg poaching pan, remove the cups from the pan that you intend to use. Fill the pan with only 1/2-inch of water and bring it to a low boil. Put a drop or so of olive oil in each of the egg cups you are using and spread around. Showing 4 of 117 Comments. The truly easiest way to “poach” an egg is in the microwave. Use a small microwaveable bowl,such as a custard cup, and spray it with olive oil spray. Crack the egg in the bowl and cover with waxed paper. You may have to play with the cook times, but I cook mine for 45-50 seconds on 60% power.
Add the egg: Carefully drop the egg into the center of the whirlpool. The swirling water will help prevent the white from feathering, or spreading out in the pan. Let it poach: Turn off the heat, cover the pan and set your timer for 5 minutes. Don't peek, poke, stir or accost the egg in any way. Lift it out: Remove the egg with a slotted spoon and serve immediately. Alternatively, move the egg to an ice bath and refrigerate up to 8 hours. Directions. Heat the water: Add enough water to come 1 inch up the side of a narrow, deep 2-quart saucier. Add 1 teaspoon kosher salt and 2 teaspoons white vinegar and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Meanwhile, crack 1 very fresh cold large egg into a custard cup or small ramekin.
How to Poach Eggs. Egg poaching can be intimidating, but it shouldn't be: With a few easy steps, you'll have a crowd-pleasing dish in your recipe box to pull out anytime you're expecting friends for breakfast or brunch. 
Poaching an egg in boiling water is never as simple as it seems. Timing the poaching of the egg in a large amount of water is often difficult, as is pooling the egg white. Everyday cooks may want to look into buying an egg poacher. Egg poachers come in a variety of styles, including stove top pans, electric poachers and microwave poachers. 
Directions: Fill an egg-poaching pan with 1/2 inch water, set over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Lightly oil the poaching cups and warm the cups in the pan. Crack an egg into each cup, cover the pan and cook to the desired doneness, 2 to 4 minutes; repeat to make 8 poached eggs. Transfer the eggs to individual plates, season with salt and pepper, and serve immediately. Serves 4
It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Step 1: Bring the water to simmering Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan. This greasing step is optional but helps keep the whites from sticking to the sides of the pan. Using a poaching pan: Lightly grease the cups of an egg-poaching pan with cooking oil or shortening. Place poacher cups over the pan of boiling water (water should not touch the bottoms of the cups); reduce heat to simmering. Break an egg into a small dish. Carefully slide egg into a poacher cup.
It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. It takes about 10 minutes to poach an egg, and you can cook one egg at a time or several eggs at once. Lightly grease a medium skillet (about 10 inches in diameter) or large saucepan. Using a poaching pan: Lightly grease the cups of an egg-poaching pan with cooking oil or shortening. Place poacher cups over the pan of boiling water (water should not touch the bottoms of the cups); reduce heat to simmering. Break an egg into a small dish. Carefully slide egg into a poacher cup.
1. Select a suitable pan for poaching. The pan must be shallow and wide, as the trick to poaching well, without an egg poacher is to gently slip the egg into a wide, shallow pan filled with simmering water. The pan should be able to take about 1.5 liters (2 3/4 pints) of water, or 10cm (4) depth of water. 