The major attraction in the southern-most reaches of Namibia is the Fish River Canyon. One of the largest in the world, the canyon proper is about 60km long, up to 8km wide, and 550m at its deepest. One of the world's largest and oldest, the Fish River Canyon is a meandering incision half a kilometre deep, 161km long and up to 27km wide.
It is the largest canyon in Africa, as well as the second most visited tourist attraction in Namibia. It features a gigantic ravine, in total about 100 miles (160 km) long, up to 27 km wide and in places almost 550 meters deep. The Fish River is the longest interior river in Namibia. It cuts deep into the plateau which is today dry, stony and sparsely covered with hardy drought-resistant plants. The river flows intermittently, usually flooding in late summer; the rest of the year it becomes a chain of long narrow pools.
Its source lies in the eastern Naukluft Mountains. South-west of Ai-Ais it flows into the Oranje.The Fish River canyon, situated along the lower reaches of the Fish River, is one of the most impressive natural beauties in the southern part of Namibia. With a depth of up to 550 metres, the Fish River Canyon is the second largest canyon in the world. The enormous gorge meanders along a distance of approx. 160 kilometres through the fissured Koubis massif all the way down to Ai-Ais. The canyon starts near Seeheim. Fish River Canyon. The canyon is part of a national nature conservation park. The gate is situated at the restcamp Hobas. From there, you have to drive another 10 kilometres to the actual canyon which offers a stunning view of the famous Hell's Bend.The Fish River Canyon has become a popular hiking destination.
The Fish River Canyon in southern Namibia is second only in grandeur to the USA’s Grand Canyon in Arizona. It is absolutely magnificent and breathtaking in its immensity. Rock stratas of purples, pinks and greys stretch along a 100-mile (161km) course. 
The Fish River Canyon hiking trail is one of the more popular hiking trails in Southern Africa. The immense scale and rugged terrain has drawn many visitors from all over the world to experience what hiking or trail running the canyon can offer. The Fish River is the longest interior river in Namibia. It cuts deep into the plateau which is today dry, stony and sparsely covered with hardy drought-resistant plants. The river flows intermittently, usually flooding in late summer; the rest of the year it becomes a chain of long narrow pools.
1 Fish River Canyon Trail: Though a very tough trail, the Fish River Canyon Trail is one of the most popular hikes in Southern Africa. 2  It is an 85 km hike from Hobas to Ai-Ais. 3  Beware that temperatures of 40C are not uncommon on the trail. The Fish River has its source in the Eastern Naukluft Mountains and in Richtersfeld flows into the Orange River, after travelling for more 650 km through the desert of Southern Namibia. In its lower part (between Seeheim and Ai-Ais) it crosses a mountain range and thereby forms the Fish River Canyon.
In between, it has formed the great Fish River Canyon – the largest canyon in the southern hemisphere, and probably only second to Arizona’s Grand Canyon in terms of size. Approaching the Fish River Canyon from the north is like driving across Mars. Most of our visitors who come to the Fish River Canyon will come for a few days as part of a self-drive holiday around the country; flying here can be costly, and there are currently no scheduled planes flying this way.
Do [edit]. 1  Fish River Canyon Trail: Though a very tough trail, the Fish River Canyon Trail is one of the most popular hikes in Southern Africa. 2  It is an 85 km hike from Hobas to Ai-Ais. 3  Beware that temperatures of 40C are not uncommon on the trail. The Fish River has its source in the Eastern Naukluft Mountains and in Richtersfeld flows into the Orange River, after travelling for more 650 km through the desert of Southern Namibia. In its lower part (between Seeheim and Ai-Ais) it crosses a mountain range and thereby forms the Fish River Canyon.
The Fish River Canyon in Namibia is (allegedly) the 2nd largest canyon in the world after the Grand Canyon. One of Namibia's most widespread and common butterflies, the red tip, flutters around the Fish River Canyon. The larvae of other species of tip such as Queen's purple and doubleday's orange use the leaves of caper bushes and shepherd's tree to feed on.
FISH RIVER CANYON. Namibia. The Fish River Canyon hiking trail is unique among trails in Africa. The Canyon itself is the second largest in the world, only being surpassed by the famous Grand Canyon in Colorado.