Hang the Kaiser! Popular British newspaper slogan during the negotiation of the Treaty of Versailles. On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. 
Natalie Barnicott 10 A Was the Treaty of Versailles unfair to Germany? I personal think that the Treaty of Versailles was unfair to Germany in a variety of different ranges these include, the War Guilt Clause, Reparations, Disarmament, Territory losses and the fact that they had no say in the peace settlement. Generally though I believe that the Treaty of Versailles was totally unfair on Germany and I think that perhaps if they had of come up with a more fairer Treaty then the problems that arose in the future due to this Treaty would have been prevented.
I think that the Treaty of Versailles was fair because Germany caused the war. Great Britain and france had every right to blame Germany and make them pay reparations. Britain and France probably did the right thing demanding all those things from Germany. ReplyDelete. March 14, 2011 at 4:31 PM. I think the treaty of versailles was fair because Germany started the war and should betaking blame for it. because of the war they damaged many countries thus they should pay the countries back for what they did to them.
The main reasons why the Germans hated the Treaty of Versailles was because they thought it was unfair. Germany had not taken part in the Conference. The terms were imposed upon Germany when Germany disagreed, the Allies threatened to go to war again. Worst of all, huge areas of Germany were given to countries like Poland, and Germany was not allowed to unite with Austria. The Germans thought this was unfair, because other nations were given self-determination but many Germans LOST the right to be part of Germany.
Treaty of Versailles Unfair to Germany. I do not think the Treaty of Versailles was fair to Germany. They were not invited to Versailles to help create the treaty, they were just forced to sign it. Even though they did not agree with it, they had to sign it because the Allies were threatening invasion.
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. The defeated nations of Germany, Austria, and Hungary were excluded from the negotiations. Russia was also excluded because it had negotiated a separate peace (the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk) with Germany in 1918. The terms of this treaty awarded Germany a large proportion of Russia's land and resources.
The Treaty of Versailles was not fair to Germany. I believe that the Treaty of Versailles was not fair to Germany. The creation of the treaty did not allow Germany to have any part in its creation, ensuring that all countries get to make decisions for them. I do not think the Treaty of Versailles was fair to Germany. They were not invited to Versailles to help create the treaty, they were just forced to sign it. Even though they did not agree with it, they had to sign it because the Allies were threatening invasion.
1 Germany thought the Treaty of Versailles (28 th June 1919) was unfair because it was a diktat. 2  The Big Three had not negotiated with Germany at Paris from January  June 1919. 3  Germany was given only three weeks to comment on the vast amounts of peace clauses. 4  Her objections were largely ignored. 1 Germany though the Treaty was unfair because it was not based fully on Wilsons Fourteen Points. 2  On the 5 th November, 1918, Germany had accepted the Fourteen Points as the basis for peace and an armistice began at 11 oclock on the 11 th November 1918.
The Treaty of Versailles. On one hand the Treaty of Versailles was not fair to Germany, but on the other hand it was. Germany was said to be responsible for the cause of the war. If Germany was responsible for the starting of the war then Germany deserved something bad in return. I do not think the Treaty of Versailles was fair to Germany. They were not invited to Versailles to help create the treaty, they were just forced to sign it. Even though they did not agree with it, they had to sign it because the Allies were threatening invasion.
The Treaty of Versailles also forbade Anschluss with Austria. This seemed unfair to the Germans, because everywhere else in Europe, the Treaties of 1919 20 gave peoples self-determination, but they divided Germany, and put 12 % of its population into other countries. Worst of all, huge areas of Germany were given to countries like Poland, and Germany was not allowed to unite with Austria. The Germans thought this was unfair, because other nations were given self-determination but many Germans LOST the right to be part of Germany.