Benzene is the simplest aromatic compound with C6H6 molecular formula and contains three pi bonds arranged in alternate manner in hexagonal ring. The carbon-carbon bond length in benzene is intermediate to C-C single bond (154 pm) and C = C double bond (134 pm) that is 139 pm due to resonance in molecule. Since six pi electrons are delocalized over whole ring, therefore the cyclically conjugated double bonds represents by a circle and the carbon-carbon bond length becomes equal. This structure of benzene is called as resonance hybrid of benzene and generally used to represents the benzenemolecule.
Benzene reacts with chlorine or bromine in an electrophilic substitution reaction, but only in the presence of a catalyst. The catalyst is either aluminium chloride (or aluminium bromide if you are reacting benzene with bromine) or iron. 
The chemical reactivity of benzene contrasts with that of the alkenes in that substitution reactions occur in preference to addition reactions, as illustrated in the following diagram (some comparable reactions of cyclohexene are shown in the green box). 1. A two-step mechanism has been proposed for these electrophilic substitution reactions. In the first, slow or rate-determining, step the electrophile forms a sigma-bond to the benzene ring, generating a positively charged benzenonium intermediate.
The most common reactions of benzene involve substitution of a proton by other groups. Electrophilic aromatic substitution is a general method of derivatizing benzene. Benzene is sufficiently nucleophilic that it undergoes substitution by acylium ions and alkyl carbocations to give substituted derivatives. Via hydrogenation, benzene and its derivatives convert to cyclohexane and derivatives. This reaction is achieved by the use of high pressures of hydrogen at high temperatures in the presence of a finely divided nickel, which serves as a catalyst. In the absence of the catalyst, benzene is impervious to hydrogen.
ASSORTED REACTIONS OF BENZENE AND METHYLBENZENE This page gives details of some reactions of benzene and methylbenzene (toluene) not covered elsewhere in this section. It deals with the combustion, hydrogenation and sulphonation of benzene and methylbenzene (toluene), and with the oxidation of side chains attached to benzene rings. Remember that benzene, methylbenzene and similar hydrocarbons based on benzene rings are collectively known as arenes. Combustion. 
Benzene is an important organic chemical compound with the chemical formula C 6 H 6. Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom. Via hydrogenation, benzene and its derivatives convert to cyclohexane and derivatives. This reaction is achieved by the use of high pressures of hydrogen at high temperatures in the presence of a finely divided nickel, which serves as a catalyst. In the absence of the catalyst, benzene is impervious to hydrogen.
Benzene and its derivatives are mainly used in synthetic organic chemistry. The main source of polynuclear aromatic compounds is coal tar. For example, naphthalene is the largest single constituent (6 - 10%) of coal tar. Since six pi electrons are delocalized over whole ring, therefore the cyclically conjugated double bonds represents by a circle and the carbon-carbon bond length becomes equal. This structure of benzene is called as resonance hybrid of benzene and generally used to represents the benzenemolecule.
1. Electrophilic substitution reaction. Table: Various electrophilic substitution reactions of Benzene. 1  Reaction of AlCl 3 with chlorine molecule (Cl 2) to form Chlorinium ion (Cl +) which acts as electrophile and attack on benzene ring. Since six pi electrons are delocalized over whole ring, therefore the cyclically conjugated double bonds represents by a circle and the carbon-carbon bond length becomes equal. This structure of benzene is called as resonance hybrid of benzene and generally used to represents the benzenemolecule.
Reactions of Aromatic Compounds Simple alkenes tend to undergo addition reactions: Br Br 2 HBrBr BrC 3 H 6 Br 2 C 3 H 6 C 3 H 7 Br The elements of the reagent (HBr or Br 2) are simply added to the starting material. This is called, unsurprisingly, and addition reaction. Aromatic compounds do not react in this manner. 
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, and is one of the most elementary petrochemicals. Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second [ n ]- annulene ([6]-annulene), a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond. Via hydrogenation, benzene and its derivatives convert to cyclohexane and derivatives. This reaction is achieved by the use of high pressures of hydrogen at high temperatures in the presence of a finely divided nickel, which serves as a catalyst. In the absence of the catalyst, benzene is impervious to hydrogen.