Thank you! Lionfish are native to the Indo-Pacifc region and the Red Sea. Lionfish are not native in the Western Atlantic Basin, which includes the Western Atlantic Ocean, Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea, or the Mediterranean Sea where they are considered an invasive species. 
The Lionfish Invasion The Indo-Pacific lionfish, a popular non-native aquarium fish, was accidentally introduced to the eastern seaboard and Caribbean in the 1990s. After its introduction to the Atlantic, the lionfish has steadily expanded its range. The lionfish has no known natural predators in the Atlantic, an appetite for native fish and crustaceans, and the ability to spawn year-round. Because of this, ecologists are concerned that lionfish could have an impact on native reef fish populations and the natural balance of the reef ecosystem.
The Lionfish Invasion. The Indo-Pacific lionfish, a popular non-native aquarium fish, was accidentally introduced to the eastern seaboard and Caribbean in the 1990s. After its introduction to the Atlantic, the lionfish has steadily expanded its range. The lionfish has no known natural predators in the Atlantic, an appetite for native fish and crustaceans, and the ability to spawn year-round. Because of this, ecologists are concerned that lionfish could have an impact on native reef fish populations and the natural balance of the reef ecosystem.
Lionfish are native to the warm tropical waters of the Indian and South Pacific Oceans, nearly 10,000 miles away from the Florida shore. (iStockphoto). Unknown in the Americas 30 years ago, lionfish have multiplied at a rate that is almost unheard of in marine history. (Visuals Unlimited / Corbis). Lionfish are native to the warm tropical waters of the Indian and South Pacific Oceans, nearly 10,000 miles away from the Florida shore. There are many species of lionfish in the world's oceans, and they can be hard to tell apart.
Non-native Range: Lionfish have been reported along the southeastern United States coast from Florida to North Carolina. Juvenile lionfish have been collected in waters off Long Island, New York, and Bermuda. Lionfish are a popular marine ornamental fish and were possibly intentionally released into the Atlantic. Lionfish are very popular and common aquarium fish, especially in the U.S. Lionfish are native to the warm, tropical waters of the South Pacific and Indian Oceans (i.e., the Indo-Pacific region), including the Red Sea. Their native range is shown in orange on the map. ). Click on image for larger view and further details
Since lionfish are not native to Atlantic waters, they have very few predators. They are carnivores that feed on small crustaceans and fish, including the young of important commercial fish species such as snapper and grouper. Lionfish are native to the Indo-Pacific, but are now established along the southeast coast of the U.S., the Caribbean, and in parts of the Gulf of Mexico.
Pterois is a genus of venomous marine fish, commonly known as lionfish, native to the Indo-Pacific. Pterois, also called zebrafish, firefish, turkeyfish or butterfly-cod, is characterized by conspicuous warning coloration with red, white, creamy, or black bands, showy pectoral fins, and venomous spiky fin rays. The lionfish is a predator native to the Indo-Pacific. It aggressively preys on small fish and invertebrates. They can be found around the seaward edge of reefs and coral, in lagoons, and on rocky surfaces to 50 m deep.