Medical Definition of PROVIRUS. : a form of a virus that is integrated into the genetic material of a host cell and by replicating with it can be transmitted from one cell generation to the next without causing lysis. Next Word in the Dictionary: provision (noun) Previous Word in the Dictionary: proving ring All Words Near: provirus.
Retrovirus: A virus that is composed not of DNA but of RNA. Retroviruses have an enzyme, called reverse transcriptase, that gives them the unique property of transcribing their RNA into DNA after entering a cell. The retroviral DNA can then integrate into the chromosomal DNA of the host cell, to be expressed there. HIV is a retrovirus.
Retrovirus. Definition. noun, plural: retroviruses. Any of the group of viruses in the family Retroviridae. The virus is characterized by having a single-stranded RNA as its genetic material, which it uses to incorporate into the genome of the host cell as a means to propagate. Supplement
Retroviridae is a family of enveloped viruses that replicate in a host cell through the process of reverse transcription. A retrovirus is a single-stranded positive-sense RNA virus with a DNA intermediate and, as an obligate parasite, targets a host cell. The term retro in retrovirus refers to this reversal (making DNA from RNA) of the central dogma of molecular biology. Reverse transcriptase activity outside of retroviruses has been found in almost all eukaryotes, enabling the generation and insertion of new copies of retrotransposons into the host genome.
Retrovirus. Retroviruses are a unique class of single-stranded ribonucleic acid (RNA) containing viruses, which replicate their genome through a double-stranded viral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) intermediate in the nucleus of the host cell. The remarkable replication pathway of retroviruses requires that once the virus enters the host cell, a viral pol gene–encoded enzyme called reverse transcriptase (RT), which is packaged in virus particles, reverse transcribes the single-stranded RNA genome into a double-stranded DNA.
Meaning and definition of retrovirus : An RNA virus that reproduces by transcribing its RNA into DNA and then inserting the DNA into a cellular chromosome, an important class of cancer-causing viruses. 
However, retroviruses function differently – their RNA is reverse-transcribed into DNA, which is integrated into the host cell's genome (when it becomes a provirus), and then undergoes the usual transcription and translational processes to express the genes carried by the virus. The term retro in retrovirus refers to this reversal (making DNA from RNA) of the central dogma of molecular biology. Reverse transcriptase activity outside of retroviruses has been found in almost all eukaryotes, enabling the generation and insertion of new copies of retrotransposons into the host genome.
Our research focuses on the molecular biology of retroviruses. Although the retrovirus life cycle is conceptually simple, there is much complexity in the way that retroviruses interact with host cells. 
Retrovirus. A retrovirus is a virus that uses RNA as its genetic material. When a retrovirus infects a cell, it makes a DNA copy of its genome that is insert ed into the DNA of the host cell. ~. A class of RNA-containing virus es. ~ es can be trans lated back into DNA and incorporated into the genome of the infected cell. ~. A type of eukaryotic virus containing an RNA genome that replicates in cells by first making a DNA copy of the RNA. This proviral DNA is insert ed into cellular chromosomal DNA, and gives rise to further genomic RNA as well as the mRNAs for viral proteins. (Figure 6-22) ...