Find qualities of Gemini (Mithun), Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Charan or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mithun (Gemini), Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs. Name Charan belongs to rashi Mithun (Gemini), Meen (Pisces) with dominant planet Jupiter (Guru) and Nakshatra (stars) Revathi, Arudra.
You can find out where the majority of the Charan families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Charan immigration records. You can find out when most of the Charan families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.
Here are pictures of people with the name Charan. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
Chāraṇas (Charan, plural Chaarans) is a Royal caste living in the Sindh, Rajasthan and Gujarat states of India. Now Recent Time Charan's are well reputed Community in Rajasthan. Charan's Are Well known for their Bravery, Literature, Excellency, Sharp mind, Greatest Poetry and for worship of Motherland. That's Way The Charan's Are also known as Deviputra.
This name is shared across persons, who are either Sikh or Hindu by religion. Name Charan belongs to rashi Mithun (Gemini), Meen (Pisces) with dominant planet Jupiter (Guru) and Nakshatra (stars) Revathi, Arudra.
Meaning of Charan. Indian name. In Indian, the name Charan means-feet.The name Charan originated as an Indian name. The name Charan is most often used as a boy name or male name. Indian Name Meaning-feet. Origin-India
Please use this list of Punjabi baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Charan in Punjabi origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. More.. While we are discussing the concept of first name-last name compatibility, here is another important perspective that you should consider. The first name you choose should match your last name. For instance, John Smith and Robert Jones are ....
Meaning of Indian name: Charan. Meaning of the name Charan is 'Feet'. Charan is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Charan is '9'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Charan
Sharan /sha-ran/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Hebrew derivation, and the meaning of the name Sharan is a fertile plain. Sharan is an alternate spelling of Sharon (Hebrew). Compare last name Shearen. 
Charan is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Cha-ran. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10867 in baby name popularity for boys with 6 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods.