At the end of the test, you will receive your results and, if you pass, a certificate, which is valid for two years. If you do not pass your practical driving test within two years of passing your theory, you will have to retake the theory test again. Driving theory test: how it works and how to pass. To pass the driving theory test, you will need to pass the multiple choice question section and hazard perception test in one go. For the multiple-choice section, you will be required to answer fifty questions in 57 minutes.
You will need to take a theory test if you want a licence for a new category of vehicle, for example, if you have a car licence and you want a motorcycle licence you will need to take a theory test. If you are a learner driver you must take and pass your theory test before you book your practical test.
Driving test costs. A car theory test costs £25 and the car practical test normally costs £62 - the full rates for different vehicles are shown in the tables. These are the prices to book your test using the official service. 
While you technically don’t need to have any driving lessons before you take the theory and hazard perception tests, you’ll probably find these easier if you’ve already spent some time behind the wheel of a car. Find out more information on the theory and hazard perception test. 
Once you have completed your Driver Theory Test, before you leave the Test Centre, you will be handed a score report with your results. If you pass the test you will also be handed a Driver Theory Test certificate, which is required to obtain a learner permit for your chosen vehicle category. Please Note; only drivers who have passed a Full Category C (Truck) Theory Test or full Category D (Bus) Theory Test on or after September 30th, 2014, are eligible to sit a Bus or Truck Module Theory Test. These tests can be taken in addition to either the full Bus Theory Test or full Truck
You are required to pass a Driver Theory Test if it is your first learner permit / provisional licence in a specific category. You must submit your application to the National Driver Licence Service (NDLS) centres and provide the Driver Theory Test certificate in respect of the category you are applying for. Please Note; only drivers who have passed a Full Category C (Truck) Theory Test or full Category D (Bus) Theory Test on or after September 30th, 2014, are eligible to sit a Bus or Truck Module Theory Test. These tests can be taken in addition to either the full Bus Theory Test or full Truck
It is your responsibility to make sure you have the correct licence for the vehicle you are driving. If you are unsure if you need to take a theory test please contact the Driving Standards Agency (DSA) or the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA). If you are a learner driver you must take and pass your theory test before you book your practical test.
In short, the driving theory test is made up of two components-a multiple-choice section and the hazard perception test. We’ve put together a comprehensive guide to help you pass your driving theory test first time-explaining what it is, what you need to do to pass and what happens next once you've aced it. There’s also a separate guide on the hazard perception test, too. Driving theory test: how it works and how to pass. To pass the driving theory test, you will need to pass the multiple choice question section and hazard perception test in one go. For the multiple-choice section, you will be required to answer fifty questions in 57 minutes.
Whether you need to take a theory test will depend upon which category of test you re taking. Category B1 - Three or four wheeled light vehicles Before you can book a practical B1 driving test you will have to pass a theory test. If you already have a full car licence you may not have to pass a theory test. 