The immune and lymphatic systems are two closely related organ systems that share several organs and physiological functions. The immune system is our body’s defense system against infectious pathogenic viruses, bacteria, and fungi as well as parasitic animals and protists. 
Lymphocytes: These small white blood cells play a large role in defending the body against disease, according to the Mayo Clinic. The two types of lymphocytes are B-cells, which make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins, and T-cells, which help destroy infected or cancerous cells. Killer T-cells are a subgroup of T-cells that kill cells that are infected with viruses and other pathogens or are otherwise damaged. Helper T-cells help determine which immune responses the body makes to a particular pathogen. Thymus: This small organ is where T-cells mature. 
These lymphocytes are called T lymphocytes, or T cells (for thymus-derived cells). These two types of lymphocytes --- cells and T cells --- play different roles in the immune response, though they may act together and influence one another's functions. The part of the immune response that involves B cells is often called humoral immunity because it takes place in the body fluids
Endocrine System. The endocrine system is made up of a group of glands that produce the body's long-distance messengers, or hormones. Hormones are chemicals that control body functions, such as metabolism, growth, and sexual development. There are three types of response systems in the immune system: the anatomic response, the inflammatory response, and the immune response. 1  The anatomic response physically prevents threatening substances from entering your body. 2  Examples of the anatomic system include the mucous membranes and the skin.
The immune system is a system of many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease. To function properly, an immune system must detect a wide variety of agents, known as pathogens, from viruses to parasitic worms, and distinguish them from the organism's own healthy tissue. B cells and T cells are the major types of lymphocytes and are derived from hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow. B cells are involved in the humoral immune response, whereas T cells are involved in cell-mediated immune response. Both B cells and T cells carry receptor molecules that recognize specific targets.
Specific immunity is a complement to the function of phagocytes and other elements of the innate immune system. In contrast to innate immunity, specific immunity allows for a targeted response against a specific pathogen. Only vertebrates have specific immune responses. Two types of white blood cells called lymphocytes are vital to the specific immune response. Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow, and mature into one of several subtypes. The two most common are T cells and B cells. An antigen is a foreign material that triggers a response from T and B cells. The human immune system has two levels of immunity: specific and non-specific immunity. Through non-specific immunity, also called innate immunity, the human body protects itself against foreign material that is perceived to be harmful.
Antigens are chemicals on the surface of a cell. All cells have these. The immune system checks cells and identifies them as self or non-self. Antibodies are proteins produced by certain lymphocytes in response to a specific antigen. Bone marrow contains tissue that produces lymphocytes. B-lymphocytes (B-cells) mature in the bone marrow. T-lymphocytes (T-cells) mature in the thymus gland. Other blood cells such as monocytes and leukocytes are produced
How lymphocytes are made. Some lymphocytes are processed in the bone marrow and then migrate to other areas of the body --- specifically the lymphoid organs (see Lymphatic System). These lymphocytes are called B lymphocytes, or B cells (for bone-marrow-derived cells). These two types of lymphocytes --- cells and T cells --- play different roles in the immune response, though they may act together and influence one another's functions.
Lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. There are two types of lymphocytes of the acquired immune system: T cells and B cells. There is a third type of lymphocyte known as natural killer (NK) cells, but these are a part of the innate immune system.
The adaptive immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system). Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, leads to an enhanced response to subsequent encounters with that pathogen. 