Clients connect to SQL Server with a single protocol. If the client program does not know which protocol SQL Server is listening on, configure the client to sequentially try multiple protocols. Use SQL Server Configuration Manager to enable, disable, and configure network protocols. Shared Memory. Shared memory is the simplest protocol to use and has no configurable settings. Because clients using the shared memory protocol can only connect to a SQL Server instance running on the same computer, it is not useful for most database activity. Use the shared memory protocol for troubleshooting when you suspect the other protocols are configured incorrectly.
The Shared Memory protocol can be disabled, which is useful when troubleshooting one of the other protocols. You cannot create an alias using the shared memory protocol, but if shared memory is enabled, then connecting to the Database Engine by name, creates a shared memory connection.A shared memory connection string uses the format.
Connections to Microsoft SQL Server from a client running on the same computer use the shared memory protocol. Shared memory has no configurable properties. Shared memory is always tried first, and cannot be moved from the top position of the Enabled Protocols list in the Client Protocols Properties list. A shared memory connection string uses the format. Connecting to the Local Server. When connecting to SQL Server running on the same computer as the client, you can use (local) as the server name.
by Nidhi Jain. Shared memory and semaphores are two important resources for an Oracle instance on Unix. An instance cannot start if it is unable to allocate what it needs. DEFINATIONS. Shared memory is exactly that-a memory region that can shared between different processes.
Connections to Microsoft SQL Server from a client running on the same computer use the shared memory protocol. Shared memory has no configurable properties. Shared memory is always tried first, and cannot be moved from the top position of the Enabled Protocols list in the Client Protocols Properties list. You cannot create an alias using the shared memory protocol, but if shared memory is enabled, then connecting to the Database Engine by name, creates a shared memory connection. A shared memory connection string uses the format.
A system global area (SGA) is a group of shared memory structures that contain data and control information for one Oracle database instance. If multiple users are concurrently connected to the same instance, then the data in the instance's SGA is shared among the users. 
The Shared Memory protocol can be disabled, which is useful when troubleshooting one of the other protocols. You cannot create an alias using the shared memory protocol, but if shared memory is enabled, then connecting to the Database Engine by name, creates a shared memory connection. A shared memory connection string uses the format. Connecting to the Local Server. When connecting to SQL Server running on the same computer as the client, you can use (local) as the server name.
Part of the Programming glossary: In computer programming, shared memory is a method by which program process es can exchange data more quickly than by reading and writing using the regular operating system services. For example, a client process may have data to pass to a server process that the server process is to modify and return to the client.
1 Shared memory (interprocess communication) , where multiple processes have simultaneous access to a buffer of system memory. 2  Shared memory architecture, the sharing of memory between processors in a multiprocessing computer. 1 Shared memory architecture, the sharing of memory between processors in a multiprocessing computer. 2  Shared graphics memory, where graphics processors use main memory rather than dedicated memory. 3  Distributed shared memory, where (physically separate) memories can be addressed as one (logically shared) address space.
The SGA is a group of shared memory structures, known as SGA components, that contain data and control information for one Oracle Database instance. The SGA is shared by all server and background processes. Examples of data stored in the SGA include cached data blocks and shared SQL areas. 