Cooking with Truffle Oil: Truffle oil is a finishing oil not a cooking oil (Truffle oil is created when truffles are soaked in olive oil). Used to enhance foods by adding to them after preparation. Truffle oils are generally not used in cooking, as the heat adulterates their flavors. Truffle oil is more of a flavoring or seasoning (that gives a burst of flavor) and should only be used lightly on your foods or dishes. The best use for truffle oil is summed up in one word, drizzle over foods. Experiment by adding a little truffle oil to some of your favorite dishes.
Truffle oil is an oil that seemingly comes from truffles. In fact, truffle oil is a synthetic oil that is derived from chemicals, which are then infused into olive oil. So, lets clear the myth again  most of the truffle oil products in the market are not made from truffles. Only a select few companies produce authentic truffle oil, one that is extracted from truffles. Most of the truffle oil on the market still doesn't contain any real truffle ingredients. In fact, it never even touched truffles. It only contains chemicals added to olive oil, or in some cases, grapeseed oil. The chemicals added are 2,4 - dithiapentane, which is a ester.
White Truffle Oil vs. Black Truffle Oil: Truffle oil is top-quality olive oil that has been infused with either white or black truffles. Both types of truffles have an earthy, mushroom like flavor. Truffle oil was originally created when truffles are soaked in olive oil. Truffle oil is more of a flavoring or seasoning (that gives a burst of flavor) and should only be used lightly on your foods or dishes. The best use for truffle oil is summed up in one word, drizzle over foods. Experiment by adding a little truffle oil to some of your favorite dishes.
Truffle oil is a cooking oil, such as olive or sunflower oil, that has been infused with the aroma of white or black truffles. The intense aroma and flavor of truffle oil doesn’t come from actual truffles but a chemical compound that resembles it closely, often marked on the bottle label as “natural flavors.”. In small amounts, truffle oil adds an intriguing earthiness to vinaigrettes. A few drops just before serving add heady fragrance and luxurious flavor. Because the flavor difference between white and black truffles is subtle, white and black truffle oil may be used interchangeably in cooking. As with all other oil, store truffle oil away from light and heat
Truffle oil is meant to be a finishing oil, rather than a cooking oil used for sauteing sautéing or. Frying this means’it s best used just before: serving drizzled over, soup, risotto or seared, fish or used in combination with olive oil and whisked into a simple. vinaigrette In small amounts, truffle oil adds an intriguing earthiness to vinaigrettes. A few drops just before serving add heady fragrance and luxurious flavor. Because the flavor difference between white and black truffles is subtle, white and black truffle oil may be used interchangeably in cooking. As with all other oil, store truffle oil away from light and heat.
Truffle oil is commonly used to make truffle fries, which feature French fries tossed in truffle oil, Parmesan cheese, pepper, and sometimes other ingredients. Some pasta dishes and whipped dishes such as mashed potatoes or deviled eggs incorporate truffle oil. Truffle oil may be incorporated into a pizza, as well. Truffle oil, available in all seasons and steady in price, is popular with chefs (and some diners) because it is much less expensive than actual truffles, while possessing some of the same flavors and aroma. The emergence and growth of truffle oil has led to an increase in the availability of foods claiming to be made with or flavored with truffles, in an era when the price of truffles has pushed them out of reach for most diners.
Truffle oil is a modern culinary ingredient, used to impart the flavor and aroma of truffles to a dish. Most truffle oils are not made from actual truffles. The emergence and growth of truffle oil has led to an increase in the availability of foods claiming to be made with or flavored with truffles, in an era when the price of truffles has pushed them out of reach for most diners.
Truffle oil is used as a lower-cost and convenient substitute for truffles, to provide flavoring, or to enhance the flavor and aroma of truffles in cooking. Most truffle oil, however, does not contain any truffles. 