solecism-a socially awkward or tactless act. faux pas, gaffe, slip, gaucherie. blooper, blunder, boner, boo-boo, botch, bungle, flub, foul-up, fuckup, pratfall, bloomer-an embarrassing mistake. 1. a nonstandard or ungrammatical usage, as unflammable or they was. 2. a breach of good manners or etiquette. 3. any error, impropriety, or inconsistency. soloecismus soloikismos = soloikismós(soloik) (Sóloik(os) solo sólo i A city in cilicia where a Corrupt Form of attic + -greek-was) + -spoken-ikos ]. ic′ismos•ism, sol. e cist n
In traditional grammar, a solecism is a phrase that trespasses the rules of grammar. The word originally was used by the Greeks for what they perceived as grammatical mistakes in their language. Ancient Athenians considered the dialect of the inhabitants of their colony, Soli, in Cilicia to be a corrupted form of their own pure Attic dialect, and labelled the errors in the form as solecisms (Greek: σολοικισμοί, soloikismoi; soloikismoí.: sing, σολοικισμός). soloikismos soloikismós
1 In rhetoric, a solecism is defined as an offense against the rules of grammar by the use of words in a wrong construction; false syntax. ' 2 Modern grammarians designate by solecism any word or expression which does not agree with the established usage of writing or speaking. The term solecism is derived from Soli, the name of an ancient Athenian colony where a dialect regarded as substandard was spoken. See Examples and Observations below.
1 But he never brooked any solecism in behaviour inside his courtroom. 2  The question is not whether Mourinho commits these solecisms: every week provides a new instance of a Mourinhism that raises the hackles of stout-hearted, stout-drinking English yeomen. 1 In any case, it was unlikely that John would commit any solecism of protocol, since he was already well acquainted with her, she having been one of his wife's bridesmaids.
1  Solecism. 2  In rhetoric, a solecism is defined as an offense against the rules of grammar by the use of words in a wrong construction; false syntax. ' 3 Modern grammarians designate by solecism any word or expression which does not agree with the established usage of writing or speaking. The term solecism is derived from Soli, the name of an ancient Athenian colony where a dialect regarded as substandard was spoken. See Examples and Observations below.
Solecism is a grammatical error, though sometimes it is not an error but a deliberate construction used in order to create a stylistic effect. Rules are twisted by necessity or due to lack of knowledge. Solecism is not only about grammatical error or misuse of words. The basic function of solecism is to highlight and emphasize an idea or a point and create stylistic effects. The unusual placements of phrases and words results in complex structures, which make the readers think and understand the meaning of the text better.
In its broader implications, notes Maxwell Nurnberg, a solecism is a deviation from the norm, something illogical, incongruous, absurd, or even an impropriety, a breach of etiquette (I Always Look Up the Word Egregious, 1998). The term solecism is derived from Soli, the name of an ancient Athenian colony where a dialect regarded as substandard was spoken. See Examples and Observations below.
Full Definition of SOLECISM. 1. : an ungrammatical combination of words in a sentence; also: a minor blunder in speech. 2. : something deviating from the proper, normal, or accepted order. 3. : a breach of etiquette or decorum. — so·le·cis·tic \ˌsae-ˌsä-lə-ˈsis, tik-\ ˌsō. adjective Latin soloecismus, from Greek soloikismos, from soloikos speaking incorrectly, literally, inhabitant of Soloi, from Soloi, city in ancient Cilicia where a substandard form of Attic was spoken. First Known Use: circa 1555.
Definition of Solecism. Solecism is derived from a Greek word soloikismos, which means to speak incorrectly. It is a stylistic device, which is defined as a grammatical mistake or intentional use of incorrect grammar in written language and speech. The basic function of solecism is to highlight and emphasize an idea or a point and create stylistic effects. The unusual placements of phrases and words results in complex structures, which make the readers think and understand the meaning of the text better.