Pahoehoe. Pahoehoe is the second most abundant type of lava flow. Pahoehoe lava is characterized by a smooth, billowy, or ropy surface. Pahoehoe flows tend to be relatively thin, from a few inches to a few feet thick. In map-view the flows tend to be narrow and elongate. Aa lava flows tend to be relatively thick compared to pahoehoe flows. During the early episodes of the current eruption of Kilauea volcano, aa flows up to 36 feet (11 m) thick surged through the Royal Gardens subdivision at rates as great as 108 ft/min (33 m/min). Image Credit: R. W. Decker/USGS July 02, 1983.
Lava Flows. The major eruptive product of Hawaiian volcanoes is lava. Lava flows can form during fountaining eruptions or they can well out of the ground with little or no pyroclastic activity. There are two major types of basaltic lava flow, ' a'a and pahoehoe
Lava flows are the least hazardous of all processes in volcanic eruptions. How far a lava flow travels depends on the flows temperature, silica content, extrusion rate, and slope of the land. A cold lava flow will not travel far and neither will one that has a high silica content. 
When magma reaches the surface of the earth, it is called lava. Since it its a liquid, it flows downhill in response to gravity as a lava flows. Different magma types behave differently as lava flows, depending on their temperature, viscosity, and gas content. 1 Lava flows are produced on the surface, and these run like liquids down slope, along the lowest areas they can find. 2  If the magma emerges along a fracture, it results in a fissure eruption, often called a curtain of fire. 3  Lava flows produced by eruptions under water are called pillow lavas.
The most common type of volcanic eruption occurs when magma (the term for lava when it is below the Earth's surface) is released from a volcanic vent. Eruptions can be effusive, where lava flows like a thick, sticky liquid, or explosive, where fragmented lava explodes out of a vent. In explosive eruptions, the fragmented rock may be accompanied by ash and gases; in effusive eruptions, degassing is common but ash is usually not. Here are some of the most common types of eruptions: In a Hawaiian eruption, fluid basaltic lava is thrown into the air in jets from a vent or line of vents (a fissure) at the summit or on the flank of a volcano. The jets can last for hours or even days, a phenomenon known as fire fountaining.
Lava is the name for magma that has reached the earth's surface. When lava comes to the surface, it is red hot and may have a temperature of more than 2012 F. (1100 C). Highly fluid lava flows rapidly down a volcano's slopes. Sticky lava flows more slowly. The beginning of a volcano. A volcano begins as magma, melted rock inside the earth, Magma results from the extreme heat of the earth's interior. The eruption of a volcano. The gas filled magma in the reservoir is under great pressure from the weight of the solid rock around it.
Lava is molten rock that flows out of a volcano or volcanic vent. Depending on its composition and temperature, lava can be very fluid or very sticky (viscous). Fluid flows are hotter and move the fastest; they can form streams or rivers, or spread out across the landscape in lobes. 
Since volcanic eruptions are caused by magma (a mixture of liquid rock, crystals, and dissolved gas) expelled onto the Earth's surface, we'll first review the characteristics of magma that we covered previously. 1 Lava flows are produced on the surface, and these run like liquids down slope, along the lowest areas they can find. 2  If the magma emerges along a fracture, it results in a fissure eruption, often called a curtain of fire. 3  Lava flows produced by eruptions under water are called pillow lavas.
Short-term prediction of volcanic eruptions involves monitoring the volcano to determine when magma is approaching the surface and monitoring for precursor events that often signal a forthcoming eruption. 1  Earthquakes-As magma moves toward the surface it usually deforms and fractures rock to generate earthquakes. 1 Lava flows are produced on the surface, and these run like liquids down slope, along the lowest areas they can find. 2  If the magma emerges along a fracture, it results in a fissure eruption, often called a curtain of fire. 3  Lava flows produced by eruptions under water are called pillow lavas.
Some volcanic eruptions are explosive and others are not. How explosive an eruption is depends on how runny or sticky the magma is. If magma is thin and runny, gases can escape easily from it. When this type of magma erupts, it flows out of the volcano. Lava flows rarely kill people, because they move slowly enough for people to get out of their way. Lava flows, however, can cause considerable destruction to buildings in their path. In this type of eruption, the magma blasts into the air and breaks apart into pieces called tephra. Tephra can range in size from tiny particles of ash to house-size boulders. Explosive volcanic eruptions can be dangerous and deadly. They can blast out clouds of hot tephra from the side or top of a volcano.