bronchus. pl. bronchi [L.] any of the larger passages conveying air to (right or left principal bronchus) and within the lungs (lobar and segmental bronchi). See also respiration, bronchial. bronchus clamp. like a bowel clamp but with solid straight blades. tracheal bronchus. An accessory bronchus that branches off directly from the trachea, the carina, or another bronchus. It is an ectopic malformation of the respiratory tract that usually runs to the right upper lobe of the lung.
Bronchi. Bronchi are the main passageway into the lungs. When someone takes a breath through their nose or mouth, the air travels into the larynx. The next step is through the trachea, which carries the air to the left and right bronchus. The bronchi become smaller the closer they get to the lung tissue and are then considered bronchioles. 
bronchus. One of the two large branches of the trachea. The trachea divides opposite the third thoracic vertebra into the right and left main bronchi. The point of division, called the carina trachea, is the site where foreign bodies too large to enter either bronchus would rest after passing through the trachea. tracheal bronchus. An accessory bronchus that branches off directly from the trachea, the carina, or another bronchus. It is an ectopic malformation of the respiratory tract that usually runs to the right upper lobe of the lung.
The lungs' tertiary bronchi are also called the segmental bronchi. They branch out from the secondary bronchi, which descend from the mainstream bronchi. Lower in the lung, they become smaller and break up into the primary bronchioles. Each tertiary bronchus serves a particular bronchopulmonary segment. 
Glossary of Terms. Bronchus / Bronchi / Bronchioles. The airways of the lungs. When a person takes in a breath of air, the air travels through the nose or mouth, into the larynx, then into the trachea, which is the main passageway into the lungs. The trachea divides into a right and left main bronchus.
Bronchi are plural for bronchus and represent the passageways leading into the lungs. A bronchus, which is also known as a main or primary bronchus, represents the airway in the respiratory tract that conducts air into the lungs. Bronchi will branch into smaller tubes that become bronchioles. The segmental bronchi divide into many smaller bronchioles that divide into terminal bronchioles, and then into respiratory bronchioles, which divide into 2 to 11 alveolar ducts. Each alveolar duct has 5 or 6 associated alveolar sacs. The alveolus is the basic anatomic unit of gas exchange.
The terminal bronchi and alveoli are located at the very end of the conducting zone and the beginning of the respiratory zone in the respiratory system. The bronchi (or bronchus) are the air passages into the lungs that begin at the end of the trachea. There are two bronchi, one for each lung. The bronchus divide into smaller branches known as segmental bronchi, which divide again into bronchioles, and then again into terminal bronchioles. 
A bronchus, also known as a main or primary bronchus, is a passage of airway in the respiratory tract that conducts air into the lungs. There is a right bronchus and a left bronchus and these bronchi branch into smaller secondary and tertiary bronchi which branch into smaller tubes, known as bronchioles. The left main bronchus divides into two secondary or lobar bronchi to deliver air to the two lobes of the left lung—the superior and the inferior lobe. The secondary bronchi divide further into tertiary bronchi, (also known as segmental bronchi), each of which supplies a bronchopulmonary segment.
A bronchus is one of the large tubes that lead from the human trachea to the lungs. There is one large bronchus in each lung that branches out into smaller bronchi within the lungs. Bronchi carry air into and out of the lungs. The respiratory system begins at the nose and mouth, which meet at the pharynx. The right main bronchus is larger than the left. It divides into three lobar bronchi. The left main bronchus splits off into two lobar bronchi. The lobar bronchi then branch into what are called tertiary bronchi, and then into smaller bronchioles.
While the left mainstem bronchus departs from the trachea at an angle, the right mainstem bronchus is almost a vertical continuation of the trachea. This anatomy predisposes the right lung to several problems: 1  If food, liquids, or foreign bodies are aspirated, they often will lodge in the right mainstem bronchus. The left main bronchus divides into two secondary or lobar bronchi to deliver air to the two lobes of the left lung—the superior and the inferior lobe. The secondary bronchi divide further into tertiary bronchi, (also known as segmental bronchi), each of which supplies a bronchopulmonary segment.