Nervousness or anxiety can be the result of both psychological and physiological factors. It is perfectly normal to feel anxious or nervous, but for some people it is very difficult to control their anxieties. There are diagnosable anxiety disorders which may require medication and therapy or counselling, but there are more moderate steps and actions you can take to help relieve your nervousness.
Getting rid of anxiety disorders isn't the same as taking out the trash. If you take your trash out to the curb, it's gone forever, and won't come back. But when you try to dispose of chronic anxiety, you often find that this task is more like the child's game, Whack a Mole, than it's like taking out the trash. 
By Margarita Tartakovsky, M.S. ~ 4 min read. When you’re feeling anxious, you might feel stuck and unsure of how to feel better. You might even do things that unwittingly fuel your anxiety. You might hyperfocus on the future, and get carried away by a slew of what-ifs. 1. Take a deep breath. “The first thing to do when you get anxious is to breathe,” said Tom Corboy, MFT, the founder and executive director of the OCD Center of Los Angeles, and co-author of the upcoming book The Mindfulness Workbook for OCD.
http://www.drewcanole.com. Drew Canole demonstrates how to smash anxiety in the face. This is a simple and effective tool you can use to get a grip on any type of anxiety you may be suffering from. Anxiety is a general term for several disorders that cause nervousness, fear, apprehension, and worrying. These disorders affect how we feel and behave, and they can manifest real physical symptoms
Cognitive-behavioral therapy may be the best way to get rid of anxiety. Some people avoid therapy because they view it as a treatment for wilted, weak people and the foamy-mouthed insane. But therapy, specifically “cognitive behavioral therapy”, is arguably the most effective anxiety treatment available. For sufferers of generalized anxiety, they are a means to regain calm and focus. Here is one such exercise used to get rid of anxiety: 1  Breathe in slowly through your nose to a count of four. 2  Hold your breath for three seconds. 3  Exhale through your mouth to the count of four. 4  Repeat until calm. 5  Try it – you’ll be surprised
Not everyone suffering from nervousness will qualify for an anxiety disorder. But those with anxiety do need their own special treatments. Take my free 7 minute anxiety test to receive a personal anxiety profile and find out one of the best ways to cure nervousness. While the above tips can provide a great deal of help for those suffering from nervousness, Understanding your anxiety further and taking steps to learn proper relaxation and coping strategies is still very important. My 7 minute anxiety test is the best place to start.
Take some deep breaths. If you have a big moment coming up, it's highly likely that you will be feeling nervous and anxious as it draws closer. You may not able to completely get rid of this feeling, but you can take steps to control your nervousness. Deep breathing slows your heart rate and reduces your blood pressure. Sit up straight and breathe deeply in through your nose. It is perfectly normal to feel anxious or nervous, but for some people it is very difficult to control their anxieties. There are diagnosable anxiety disorders which may require medication and therapy or counselling, but there are more moderate steps and actions you can take to help relieve
Last week, I wrote about Ten Things To Do For a Panic Attack. Here is a list of things you can do for yourself to help with your anxiety overall. 1. Write a list of your skills and knowledge. Write down things that you know logically that counter what the anxiety is telling you is truth. For example, “Statistically very few planes crash.” or “I can handle going in the store. 