B. A nucleic acid strand is a polymer of nucleotides  Nucleic acid = Polymer of nucleotides linked together by condensation reactions.  Nucleotide = Building block molecule of a nucleic acid; made of (1) a five-carbon  sugar  covalently bonded to (2) a phosphate group and (3) a nitrogenous base. Examples of disaccharides include: B. Polysaccharides, the polymers of sugars,  have storage and structural roles  Polysaccharides = Macromolecules that are polymers of a few hundred or thousand  monosaccharides.
A biomolecule is any molecule that is present in living organisms, including large macromolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids, as well as small molecules such as primary metabolites, secondary metabolites, and natural products. 
Although R-groups of some amino acids contain amino and carboxyl groups, branched polypeptides or proteins do not occur. The sequence of monomer units in a macromolecule is called the PRIMARY STRUCTURE of that macromolecule. Each specific macromolecule has a unique primary structure. Glucose is a typical monosaccharide. It has two important types of functional group: a carbonyl group (an aldehyde in glucose, some other sugars have a ketone group instead.) hydroxyl groups on the other carbons. This is what you need to know about glucose, not its detailed
Summary of Proteins  Subunits are amino acids  Amino acids are joined by condensation reactions that form peptide bonds  The amino acid sequence is a protein’s primary structure. The primary structure can also be called a polypeptide. Making Polypeptides  Amino acids are joined by condensation (dehydration) reactions  Joins the amino group of an amino acid to carboxyl group of another amino acid  The covalent bond that is formed is called a peptide bond  As with all condensation reactions, water is removed. H O.
Monomer = Subunit or building block molecule of a polymer  Macromolecule = (Macro = large); large organic polymer  · Formation of macromolecules from smaller building block molecules represents  another level in the hierarchy of biological organization. Examples of disaccharides include: B. Polysaccharides, the polymers of sugars,  have storage and structural roles  Polysaccharides = Macromolecules that are polymers of a few hundred or thousand  monosaccharides.
Polymers formed by a straightforward linking together of monomer units, with no loss or gain of material, are called addition polymers or chain-growth polymers. A listing of some important addition polymers and their monomer precursors is presented in the following table. The repeating structural unit of most simple polymers not only reflects the monomer(s) from which the polymers are constructed, but also provides a concise means for drawing structures to represent these macromolecules. For polyethylene, arguably the simplest polymer, this is demonstrated by the following equation.
Polymer nomenclature is generally based upon the type of monomer residues comprising the polymer. Polymers that contain only a single type of repeat unit are known as homopolymers, while polymers containing a mixture of repeat units are known as copolymers. Poly(styrene), for example, is composed only of styrene monomer residues, and is therefore classified as a homopolymer. Note: Applicable to substance macromolecular in nature like cross-linked. systems that can be considered as one macromolecule. A polymer (/ˈpɒlɨmər/) (Greek poly- , many + -mer, parts) is a large molecule, or macromolecule, composed of many repeated subunits.
- gram positive organisms. - mycoplasmas. - cyanobacteria. - archea. 4. ___________ is a macromolecule containing alternating N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid cross-linked by short peptide fragments. - mycolic acid. - outer membrane protein. - peptidoglycan. - lysozyme. - none of the above are correct. 19. - archea. 4. ___________ is a macromolecule containing alternating N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid cross-linked by short peptide fragments