Matzo, matza or matzah (Hebrew: מַצָּה ‎; plural matzot; matzos, matzus of Ashkenazi Hebrew dialect) is an unleavened bread traditionally eaten by Jews during the Passover festival, when chametz (bread and other food made with leaven) is forbidden according to Jewish religious law. Matzah brei is a dish of Ashkenazi origin made from matzah soaked in water and fried with eggs. These items are made from matzah meal, or finely ground matzah sometimes called cake meal, used as a binder in baked goods.
It is also possible to make your own, either from matzo you bake yourself or purchased at the store. The bread that forms the base for matzo meal is actually more like a form of cracker than a recognizable bread. Basically, this is a type of breadcrumbs or cracker meal; Jewish cuisine often calls for matzo meal because it is presumed to be kosher, since matzo is a Jewish food. One of the most famous uses for this meal is in matzo balls, dumplings made from meal, eggs, and oil that are cooked in boiling broth or water.
There are numerous explanations behind the symbolism of matzah. One is historical: Passover is a commemoration of the exodus from Egypt. The biblical narrative relates that the Israelites left Egypt in such haste they could not wait for their bread dough to rise; the bread, when baked, was matzah. (Exodus 12:39). Matzah brei is a dish of Ashkenazi origin made from matzah soaked in water and fried with eggs. These items are made from matzah meal, or finely ground matzah sometimes called cake meal, used as a binder in baked goods.
At the Passover seder, it is customary to eat matzah made of flour and water; matzah containing eggs, wine, or fruit juice in addition to water is not considered acceptable for use at the seder. The flour can be made from the five grains mentioned in the Torah: wheat, barley, spelt, rye and oats. Matzah brei is a dish of Ashkenazi origin made from matzah soaked in water and fried with eggs. These items are made from matzah meal, or finely ground matzah sometimes called cake meal, used as a binder in baked goods.
Tweet. Matzah is unleavened bread made from one of five species of grain – wheat, barley, spelt, rye, and oats – mentioned in the Torah. The Torah commands Jews to eat matzah during Passover in Exodus 12:18 : In the first month [i.e. According to R. Elijah of Vilna, one fulfills a commandment to eat matzah on the other days of Passover as well. In Temple times, this duty was based on the verse with matzah and bitter herbs shall they eat it, i.e., the Paschal lamb, and is also based on the verse In the evening ye shall eat matzot  (Ex. 12:18).
Although it is not regarded as fermenting if there is no admixture of water, matzah made from any such ingredient is forbidden on the first night since it constitutes  matzah ashirah , the  matzah of opulence, in contrast to the bread of affliction (Pes. 36a). According to R. Elijah of Vilna, one fulfills a commandment to eat matzah on the other days of Passover as well. In Temple times, this duty was based on the verse with matzah and bitter herbs shall they eat it, i.e., the Paschal lamb, and is also based on the verse In the evening ye shall eat matzot  (Ex. 12:18).
Matzo meal (also spelled matzah meal and matzoh meal) is a food product that is made by grinding matzo bread, a traditional Jewish food. There are a wide range of uses for it in Jewish cuisine, and as a result, it is usually in stock at stores which carry Jewish foods. Basically, this is a type of breadcrumbs or cracker meal; Jewish cuisine often calls for matzo meal because it is presumed to be kosher, since matzo is a Jewish food. One of the most famous uses for this meal is in matzo balls, dumplings made from meal, eggs, and oil that are cooked in boiling broth or water.
Matzo is an unleavened cracker-like bread that is traditionally eaten at Passover. It is made with flour and water, and it is the flour-containing product that is deemed to be Kosher for passover. Matzo meal is made by finely grinding matzo crackers into a breadcrumb-like consistency. 
Bread is the staff of life, but matzah is the most basic bread, the simplest food made by man. Matzah involves the amalgamation of the three basic elements that define civilized man: grain, water and fire. No external element beyond flour and water is permitted to define or influence its form. 