(Betsy flipping her eggs). Incubation lasts about 25-30 days. Most Canada geese remain on their nests for 23 out of 24 hours, taking short nesting breaks to stretch and feed. Others may take longer nest breaks lasting up to an hour or more. They're a lot of fun to watch when they take nesting breaks.
Females lay 2-9 dull white oval eggs in each clutch (a set of eggs laid at one time. Canada geese lay 1 egg every 1 to 2 days; the eggs are usually laid early in the morning. Incubation takes an average of 28 days, with the female sitting on the eggs and the male guarding the area around the goose. 
If you leave goose eggs in the nest, a goose will usually sit once she has laid a suitable size clutch of eggs. To prevent breakages whilst she is laying, it is usually best to leave a couple of eggs in the nest but to remove and store the others until there are enough for her to sit on. Geese can usually sit on 7 to 10 eggs comfortably. When a goose is ready to sit, she will line her nest with down that she plucks from herself
Report Abuse. Geese will sit on their nest to incubate the eggs, which takes about 28-30 days. =). Source(s): internet; http://www.veganpeace.com/animal_facts/G... K.E.L.S.E.Y. · 7 years ago.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The incubation period for Canada Geese in the wild is 25-28 days. Incubation actually starts only after the goose lays all of her eggs. It is exciting to watch, but remember to watch from a distance, so the mother will not feel threatened and abandon the nest. Also, do not assume that she has abandoned the nest if she is absen
The Canada Goose begins to incubate her eggs after she finishes laying them all-sometimes up to 15 eggs, but more commonly 2-8. Once incubation begins, the eggs should hatch in about 25-28 days. The goslings hatch covered with down and with their eyes open. They leave the nest within 24 hours of hatching with the ability to swim and feed. Unlike songbirds, the parents do not feed their babies. 
Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime. 
It depends on the species. Male Emperor Penguins, the largest of the penguin species, incubate the egg for 65 days waiting for the female to return. The smallest species, … the Little Penguin, also known as the Fairy Penguin, incubates the egg for about 5 weeks, or 35 days. Unlike birds, lizards do not sit on their eggs. Instead, they strategically place them in places that they will receive proper heat. One of their favorite places are in … thick moist piles of leaves.