From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Livedo reticularis is a common skin finding consisting of a mottled reticulated vascular pattern that appears as a lace-like purplish discoloration of the skin. 
Livedo reticularis is thought to be due to spasms of the blood vessels or an abnormality of the circulation near the skin surface. Sometimes livedo reticularis is simply the result of being chilled. But it may be a symptom of a serious underlying condition, such as vascular disease, an endocrine disorder or a rheumatologic disease, such as lupus. Livedo reticularis rarely may be related to a complication of kidney dialysis known as calciphylaxis
Livedo reticularis refers to a condition in which dilation of capillary blood vessels and stagnation of blood within these vessels causes mottled discolouration of the skin. It is described as being reticular (net-like) cyanotic (reddish blue discolouration) cutaneous discolouration surrounding pale central areas. Sneddon's syndrome is a form of idiopathic livedo reticularis with systemic involvement i.e. internal blood vessels are affected, most commonly in the brain, eye and heart.
Livedo reticularis is a vascular condition characterized by a mottled, purplish discoloration of the skin, usually on the legs. It may be aggravated by cold exposure. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Livedo reticularis is a skin condition that causes skin discoloration in what is termed a “mottled” pattern. It may be either extremely benign or a symptom of more serious underlying conditions. After all, livedo reticularis symptoms are caused by dilation of the blood vessels. The blood vessels dilate and then the blood pools and is visible through the skin. I'm pretty surprised that the cold can cause this, though. I always thought being cold caused blood vessels to constrict, not dilate.
Primary Livedo Reticularis or more commonly known as Livedo Reticularis is a common benign vascular condition which commonly affects the superficial blood vessels and capillaries. Livedo Reticularis has a mottled net-like or lace-like appearance with purplish or bluish discoloration which is non-blanchable. Livedo Reticularis Causes. Livedo Reticularis is an idiopathic and benign disorder. Several factors may cause the mottling appearance of the skin. This is brought about by swelling of medium sized blood vessels including capillaries which results into pooling of blood into that area.
Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! Livedo reticularis: A mottled purplish discoloration of the skin. Livedo reticularis can be a normal condition that is simply more obvious when a person is exposed to the cold. It can also be an indicator of impaired circulation. 