As a digger, the Synodontis Eupterus Catfish will appreciate a fine sandy bottom with large roots and crevices for hiding places in a tank of 50 gallons or more. Sensitive to nitrates, good water conditions are necessary. 
Also known simply as featherfin catfish. Featherfin squeakers are called such due to their ability to make noises to communicate with one another and also for their high feather-like fin which is valued by many hobbyists. Wild specimens can grow to a length of 30.0 centimetres (11.8 in) SL.
These guys work great. Cheaper Synodontis species, like the lace catfish, grow into a bulky foot-long, heater-busting behemoth. The Synodontis multipunctatus stays a reasonable size even in a large tank.Squeaker Name. Not until this year (2004) did we learn why synodontis are called squeakers. We were moving a large Synodontis eupterus to a potential spawning tank at the other end of the room. It was in a 1.5-inch PVC tube with no water, when it started squeaking -- a little like a talking catfish but more of a squeak. 
While not always true, the Feather Fin Catfish can require a lot of work to maintain. Feather Fin Catfish, also known as Cat Synodontis Eupterus, Featherfin Synodontis, and Featherfin Squeaker, in general, will not like to share a tank with other fish. They have been known to be very territorial, especially when breeding. There are fish that they might be able to coexist with, however. It will also accept algae wafers, sinking pellets (carnivore, catfish, shrimp, etc..), spirulina flakes and blood worms. Featherfin Catfish Description: The Feather Fin Catfish is a fish for long time aquarists. It is a fun fish to have, but difficult to care for.
The Featherfin Squeaker Synodontis eupterus was described by Boulenger in 1901. They inhabit much of central Africa, including Nigeria, Chad, Sudan, Ghana, Mali, Niger, and Cameroon. The Featherfin Squeaker is fairly large and a long-lived catfish. It can get up to 11.8 inches (30 cm) in length, though they usually only obtain 6 - 8” (15-20 cm) in the aquarium.
Featherfin Squeaker catfish (Synodontis euptera). This looks to be a perfect aquarium environment for this Featherfin catfish. Notice the lower light levels, hiding places, and algae growing from the wood which comes from a long established tank. The Featherfin Squeaker is fairly large and a long-lived catfish. It can get up to 11.8 inches (30 cm) in length, though they usually only obtain 6 - 8” (15-20 cm) in the aquarium.
Other common names they are known by include Featherfin Catfish and Featherfin Synodontis. They are also referred to as the Lace Cat or Synodontis Lace Catfish, though this name is more often applied to its very similar cousin the Lace Synodontis Synodontis nigrita. The Featherfin Squeaker is a great choice as a durable and attractive bottom scavenger. The Featherfin Squeaker is fairly large and a long-lived catfish. It can get up to 11.8 inches (30 cm) in length, though they usually only obtain 6 - 8” (15-20 cm) in the aquarium.
Synodontis eupterus for Sale the featherfin squeaker catfish. The Featherfin Squeaker is a species of upside down catfish also known as Synodontis eupterus. Another popular nickname for this fish is the Featherfin catfish or Featherin Synodontis. 
Feather Fin Catfish, also known as Cat Synodontis Eupterus, Featherfin Synodontis, and Featherfin Squeaker, in general, will not like to share a tank with other fish. They have been known to be very territorial, especially when breeding. There are fish that they might be able to coexist with, however. Feather Fin Catfish like live plants, and will not bother them. At maturity, the Feather Fin Catfish will grow to a size from five to eight inches. Also, these fish have long life spans. There have been reports of these fish living for 18 years.
The featherfin squeaker (Synodontis eupterus) or featherfin synodontis is a species of Synodontis catfish. This species is found in the basins of the White Nile, Volta and Niger Rivers and the Chad Basin. Featherfin squeakers are called such due to their ability to make noises to communicate with one another and also for their high feather-like fin which is valued by many hobbyists. Wild specimens can grow to a length of 30.0 centimetres (11.8 in) SL.