Silica (silicon dioxide) is a compound of silicon and oxygen (Si02). It is a hard, glassy mineral substance which occurs in a variety of forms such as sand, quartz, sandstone, and granite. It is also found in the skeletal parts of various animals and plants. 
Full Definition of SILICA. : the dioxide of silicon SiO2 occurring in crystalline, amorphous, and impure forms (as in quartz, opal, and sand respectively). : the dioxide of silicon SiO2 that is used as an ingredient of simethicone and that occurs naturally in crystalline, amorphous, and impure forms (as in quartz, opal, and sand respectively)—called also silicon dioxide.
Silica gel is a granular, vitreous, porous form of silicon dioxide made synthetically from sodium silicate. Silica gel is tough and hard; it is more solid than common household gels like gelatin or agar. It is a naturally occurring mineral that is purified and processed into either granular or beaded form. In this form, it is used as a desiccant to control local humidity to avoid spoilage or degradation of some goods. Because silica gel can have added chemical indicators (see below) and adsorbs moisture very well, silica gel packets usually bear warnings for the user not to eat the contents.
• SILICA (noun). The noun SILICA has 1 sense: 1. a white or colorless vitreous insoluble solid (SiO2); various forms occur widely in the earth's crust as quartz or cristobalite or tridymite or lechartelierite. Familiarity information: SILICA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. cristobalite (a white mineral consisting of silica; found in volcanic rocks). lechartelierite (a mineral form of vitreous or glassy silica; formed by the melting of quartz sand (as by lightning or a meteorite)).
Silica. Silica is an unincorporated community in Saint Louis County, Minnesota, United States. The community is located immediately south of the city of Hibbing at the intersection of State Highway 73 and Saint Louis County Road 440. The West Swan River flows through the community. Subsequently, silicon was first identified by the chemist Antoine Lavoisier in 1787 as a component element of the silex, or silicis for flint, and more generally what were termed flints during the era, nowadays as we would say silica or more formally, silicate.
Silica gel comes in either non-indicating or self-indicating forms. Non indicating silica gel is white and stays white as it adsorbs moisture. Self-indicating silica gel have traditionally been impregnated with a moisture sensitive cobalt chloride indicator. This gives a blue silica gel which slowly changes colour as it adsorbs moisture until it becomes pink.
Noun. 1. silica-a white or colorless vitreous insoluble solid (SiO2); various forms occur widely in the earth's crust as quartz or cristobalite or tridymite or lechatelierite. silicon dioxide, silicon oxide. cristobalite-a white mineral consisting of silica; found in volcanic rocks. Silicon dioxide, SiO 2, a compound that occurs widely in rocks and mineral forms, such as quartz, sand, and flint, and is used to make glass, concrete, and other materials.
Silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is a chemical compound that is an oxide of silicon with the chemical formula Si O 2. It has been known since ancient times. Silica is most commonly found in nature as quartz, as well as in various living organisms. 
n. A white or colorless crystalline compound, SiO 2, occurring abundantly as quartz, sand, flint, agate, and many other minerals and used to manufacture a wide variety of materials, especially glass and concrete. Silicon dioxide, SiO 2, a compound that occurs widely in rocks and mineral forms, such as quartz, sand, and flint, and is used to make glass, concrete, and other materials.