5-HT4 agonists. Cisapride is a serotonin and cholinergic agonist used as a prokinetic drug, it was withdrawn from the U.S. market because of cardiovascular toxicity. Non-selective agonists. Ergotamine activates a more than one subtype of 5-HT receptor, it binds to 5-HT1A, 5-HT1D, 5-HT1B, D2 and norepinephrine receptors. This article will focus on the classification of serotonin receptors, as well as drug classes that act on serotonergic transmission. This includes 5-HT agonists, antagonists and medications that modulate 5-HT at the presynaptic level, all of them of very high clinical relevance.
This explains the number of therapeutic agents that act targeting the serotonergic system such as: 5-HT3 antagonists, SSRIs and triptans. This article will focus on the classification of serotonin receptors, as well as drug classes that act on serotonergic transmission. This includes 5-HT agonists, antagonists and medications that modulate 5-HT at the presynaptic level, all of them of very high clinical relevance.
Antagonists of the 5-HT2A receptor are sometimes used as atypical antipsychotics (contrast with typical antipsychotics, which are purely dopamine antagonists). They include: 1  Cyproheptadine blocks 5-HT 2A, H1 and is a mild anticholinergic. 2  Methysergide is a 5-HT 2A antagonist and nonselective 5-HT1 receptor blocker. 1 Methysergide is a 5-HT 2A antagonist and nonselective 5-HT1 receptor blocker. 2  It causes retroperitoneal fibrosis and mediastinal fibrosis. 3  Quetiapine blocks 5-HT 2A, 5-HT1A, dopamine receptors D1 and D2, histamine receptor H1, and A1 adrenoreceptors.
A serotonin antagonist is a drug used to inhibit the action at serotonin (5-HT) receptors. 1 Methysergide is a 5-HT 2A antagonist and nonselective 5-HT1 receptor blocker. 2  It causes retroperitoneal fibrosis and mediastinal fibrosis. 3  Quetiapine blocks 5-HT 2A, 5-HT1A, dopamine receptors D1 and D2, histamine receptor H1, and A1 adrenoreceptors.
Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). Serotonin-blocking drugs have revolutionised the management of CINV, and these agents now form the cornerstone of anti-vomiting therapy in this condition. Prior to the discovery of these drugs, vomiting was the most feared side effect of chemotherapy. A huge amount of research has been done on the first-generation serotonin blockers, resulting in the following key points: 1  The different serotonin blocking drugs are equally effective and can therefore be used interchangeably; 2  These drugs are well tolerated and have few side effects;
Second-generation serotonin blockers. Palonosetron was approved by the FDA in 2003 as a second-generation serotonin blocker. It binds much more strongly to its receptor than the first-generation drugs, and therefore works over a longer period of time. A huge amount of research has been done on the first-generation serotonin blockers, resulting in the following key points: 1  The different serotonin blocking drugs are equally effective and can therefore be used interchangeably; 2  These drugs are well tolerated and have few side effects;
The 5-HT receptors, the receptors for serotonin, are located on the cell membrane of nerve cells and other cell types in animals, and mediate the effects of serotonin as the endogenous ligand and of a broad range of pharmaceutical and hallucinogenic drugs. 
The 5-HT3 receptor antagonists act to block the effects of serotonin on specific receptors that are found most frequently in the gastrointestinal tract and the central nervous system. The serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists are potent antiemetics used for prevention of postsurgical or chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting and for some agents as therapy of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.
5-hydroxytryptamine receptor antagonists (5-HT3 RAs) are a group of drugs which are used to control nausea and vomiting. They get their name through their ability to block 5-hydroxytryptamine (also known as serotonin) from activating nerves that bring about the vomiting reflex. 5-HT 3 RAs, or serotonin blockers, were originally discovered in the 1990s and are one of the newest types of anti-vomiting drugs on the market. A huge amount of research has been done on the first-generation serotonin blockers, resulting in the following key points: 1  The different serotonin blocking drugs are equally effective and can therefore be used interchangeably; 2  These drugs are well tolerated and have few side effects;
Cancer therapy can damage the intestine and trigger the release of serotonin. The released serotonin can cause nausea and vomiting. Serotonin blocking drugs (5-HT 3 receptor antagonists) help prevent nausea and vomiting by blocking the effect of serotonin. Issue. Health Canada has completed a safety review of the serotonin blocking drugs (serotonin antagonists) dolasetron (was sold under the brand name ANZEMET and was recently withdrawn from the market by the manufacturer), granisetron (KYTRIL and generics), ondansetron (ZOFRAN and generics) and palonosetron (ALOXI).