Holding on to a losing investment is generally a bad strategy, and selling that losing stock to take a capital loss can reduce your tax burden while freeing up the cash you have left for a more suitable investment. Step 1. Find the original purchase confirmation from when you bought the investment. 
Step 4. Subtract your cost basis from the current value of the stock. In our example, the cost basis was $12,000 and the current value on the day we checked it was $13,000. Starting with the current value of $13,000, subtract the cost basis of $12,000 and you see that you have a $1,000 profit in that stock. To calculate losses, use the same information you wrote down when you purchased the stock: cost per share, number of shares and the date. Also figure your cost basis for the stock. Step 2. Subtract the current stock value if it is lower than the cost basis.
Here is what you need to do: Take amount that you have gained on the investment and divide it by the amount invested. To calculate the gain, take the price for which you sold the investment and subtract it from the price that you initially paid for it. Now that you have your gain, divide the gain by the original amount of the investment. Finally, multiply your answer by 100 to get the percentage change in your investment. If the percentage is negative, resulting from the market value being lower than the book value, you have lost on your investment. 
Step 4. Subtract the cost basis from the total proceeds to calculate your stock profit. Note that if the cost basis is greater than the total proceeds from selling the stock, your answer will be a negative number. This means you took a loss on the investment
By adjusting the above method of finding a stock's return, you can find the percentage return of a portfolio. Instead of using the purchase price and current value of the stock, you will do your calculations based on the total value of your portfolio. For example, on June 1, your portfolio is valued at $14,500. After a week of market activity, your portfolio value increases to $15,225. For example, if you buy a stock today for $50 and tomorrow it is worth $52, your percentage gain is 4% (($52 - $50)/$50). Finding the daily return on your portfolio requires a different approach.
1 You may want to convert stock profits to a percentage. 2  Doing this makes it easy to compare how well investments of different size and type have performed. 3  To convert to percentage gain, divide the profit by the cost basis and multiply by 100. 4  For example, suppose your cost basis was $5,000 and your profit $700. Subtract the cost basis from the total proceeds to calculate your stock profit. Note that if the cost basis is greater than the total proceeds from selling the stock, your answer will be a negative number. This means you took a loss on the investment
Step 1. Subtract your initial investment value from the ending investment value to find the gain or loss. For example, if you want to calculate the total percentage investment return over a five-year period, use the value at the start of the first year and the value at the end of the fifth year. If it started at $8,000 and grew to $10,200, your investment gain is $2,200
Express your net gain or loss as a percentage by dividing it by the original investment and multiplying by 100. In the example, you would divide the net gain of $550 by the investment of $1,000. You would then multiply the result by 100 to convert the decimal to a percentage. This results in a net gain of 55 percent. Instructions. Calculate the total amount invested. If this were a stock, you would multiply the number of shares by the cost of the shares. As an example, if you purchased 100 shares of stock ZZZ for $10 per share, you have have invested $1,000. Determine the total amount received for the sale of your investment.
Whereas perceiving investment returns and how to calculate the profit and loss are so important. Thus we are able to know that our products that we have chosen are correct and also appropriate with what we expected or not. And then, after 1 year later, the stock prices are increased to be $1.5, accordingly the profit of investment that we have gotten from the capital gain is $1.5 minus $1 equal to $0.5. And then the result $ 0.5 is divided by $1 equal to 0.5 and then multiplied by 100 percents equal to 50 percents.