Fetch TV's big advantage is that it lets you pause, rewind and record both the free-to-air and pay TV channels. T-Box can only perform these tricks on free-to-air channels, not Foxtel. T-Box has a 500GB hard drive, whereas Fetch TV boosts this to 1TB and offers better storage management options. Fetch TV: $299 or $10 a month. Letting you watch both free-to-air and pay TV, these internet-enabled personal video recorders offer the best of both worlds. If you're not prepared to pay for a full Foxtel service and Foxtel's iQ2 PVR, then these IPTV boxes might offer the compromise you're looking for.
We're keen to see how Fetch improves this year, with the arrival of Foxtel's iQ3 PVR, as well as video streaming services like Netflix and Stan. On the whole though, we think the service will continue to succeed as Australian internet connections improve. For the full article please click here. Update: With the arrival of Netflix, we've gone back to the Fetch TV review to see whether access to the streaming service helps or hinders the upstart Pay TV platform.
In Australia, broadcast free-to-air is hugely dominant for a wide variety of reasons and one can only assume that’s the segment at the most risk – which is why Channel 9 created Stan (with Fairfax) and why Channel 7 partnered with Foxtel (on Presto). Fetch TV. Fetch TV is the hybrid of them all. A single investment in a Fetch TV box ($349 or less, and you own the box), plus $5-20 a month gets you Free to Air TV, Huge recording capabilities, an outstanding user interface, on-demand Movies and TV content, plus you can sign up to and watch Netflix within it. 
Unlike traditional PVRs like the TiVo or the Foxtel iQ2, the Fetch TV box is small. Measuring in at 260 x 252 x 50mm and with no obviously visible buttons on the front of the boxy design, the Fetch TV isn't an eye-catching device that will form the visual centrepiece of your home entertainment setup. The unlocked box will set you back $398 for the box and requires a one-off $1 activation fee for the Fetch TV service to work. That one-off fee isn't an empty payment either – for your buck you get three movie rental credits on any three movies, which means up to $20.85 value.
They also require installation, either through HFC cable or by the installation of a satellite dish. Fetch TV is a completely different approach. Instead of basing the service around pay TV, the Fetch box is first and foremost a traditional PVR for free-to-air television. Inside there is a terabyte hard drive, plus three terrestrial tuners for recording two channels and watching a third simultaneously. 1GB of RAM ensures the box responds without lag. The unlocked box will set you back $398 for the box and requires a one-off $1 activation fee for the Fetch TV service to work. That one-off fee isn't an empty payment either – for your buck you get three movie rental credits on any three movies, which means up to $20.85 value.
I highly recommend getting the Fetch TV box, if you are only interested in FTA TV. You are better off renting the box for $10 per month, rather than spending $500+ on a decent PVR. You might even be able to get the box for free (Optus give it away for free to those on the $85 plan and higher). On a pure hardware and software level, I also believe that the Fetch TV box is a bit better than the Foxtel IQHD. You get a 1TB HDD rather than a 320GB HDD, and I prefer the software on the box, it is more modern looking. So I recently made the decision to move on from my Sport HD package from Foxtel. I only watched it for sport, namely AFL, NBA, Aleague and a bit of EPL and Tennis. Baring that I watch free to air TV and use the internet for other content.
The options for pay TV in Australia have always been somewhat limited. You can either opt to go with Foxtel and get a PVR like the Foxtel iQ3 or, if you live in a slightly more regional postcode, Austar. Fetch TV is bringing its own unique take on pay TV to the Australian television scene. Update: With the arrival of Netflix, we've gone back to the Fetch TV review to see whether access to the streaming service helps or hinders the upstart Pay TV platform.
Fetch TV supports high-def free-to-air and movie rentals, but not pay TV channels. Adam Turner. Channels on demand: There are options for pay TV, depending on your budget. Foxtel isn't the only game in town if you're prepared to pay for extra channels in your lounge room. Foxtel arrives via the pay TV cable or a satellite dish. Every package comes with the iQHD set-top box, which lets you pause, rewind and record programs You can also stream Foxtel's Catch Up TV from the internet. The iQ2 box lets you access online Foxtel's Catch Up TV straight from the onscreen program guide. Foxtel is cutting its basic plan from $49 per month to $25 per month in November. FETCH TV. from $4.95 per month, plus $9.95 per month for the Fetch TV box (or $299 outright). Fetch TV's basic plan is cheaper than Foxtel, plus there's no installation fee. Fetch TV also offers more foreign language options, as well as Setanta Sports for international soccer and rugby