Eurotunnel Le Shuttle is a shuttle service between Calais / Coquelles in France and Folkestone in England. It conveys road vehicles by rail through the Channel Tunnel. Passenger and freight vehicles are carried in separate shuttle trains. The service is owned and operated by Eurotunnel, the Channel Tunnel owners. 
Drive from France to England through the Eurotunnel in a Mini Cooper. Rit van Frankrijk naar Engeland door de Eurotunnel in een Mini Cooper. 1  Autos & Vehicles. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Vacation busting delays are a big risk when driving between England and France. Traveling through Eurotunnel on Le Shuttle to and from Europe in your own car is fast, easy, economical and fun. Making the short crossing between Dover and Calais by ferry is an adventure too. These are the alternatives to driving on to Le Shuttle through the Channel Tunnel: 1  Book a ferry crossing-Price makes t he ferries the first choice Eurotunnel alternative for families with kids, parties of friends traveling together, teams and class groups.
Chunnel crossing with Eurotunnel Car trains-how it works. The Chunnel (or Channel Tunnel) is the tunnel linking England and France. However, it is not possible to drive your car through the tunnel. Chunnel crossings are done using special Car trains. But using the Chunnel is very easy. Chunnel crossings offer the quickest way to get from England to France in your car. The Chunnel crossing uses speedy trains specially designed to take cars, motorbikes and other vehicles. You simply drive on and drive off. The Chunnel crossing takes just 35 minutes from Folkestone to Calais.
Chunnel Crossing by Car or Motorbike. It is not possible to drive a car or motorcycle through the Chunnel. Motorists and motorcyclists must use the car train service, whereby you drive your car or motorbike onto the Euro Shuttle train, which then takes you through the Chunnel. There's no need to get out of your car, and the journey is over in just 35 minutes. Eurotunnel trains operate from the Channel Tunnel terminals at Folkestone and Calais. These trains carry cars, coaches, motorbikes, lorries and bicycles through the Chunnel. Prices start at just 49 for a single trip with a car.
Overview: One of the fastest-and cheapest-ways to cross the English Channel is via Eurotunnel. Whether you use Eurotunnel across the English Channel for a short excursion or as one leg of a European touring vacation, you just drive aboard Le Shuttle, and, hey presto, 35 minutes later you're in another country.
Eurotunnel Trains through the Chunnel. The other trains using the Chunnel link are operated by Eurotunnel. These trains run between Folkestone and Calais. The Chunnel Trains, sometimes called Euro Shuttle Trains, or just Le Shuttle, are built to carry cars, motorbikes, and a range of other road vehicles. There's no need to get out of your car, and the journey is over in just 35 minutes. Eurotunnel trains operate from the Channel Tunnel terminals at Folkestone and Calais. These trains carry cars, coaches, motorbikes, lorries and bicycles through the Chunnel. Prices start at just 49 for a single trip with a car.
The Eurotunnel Shuttle is the brand name for the car carrying trains which run through the Channel Tunnel between Folkestone and Calais. Eurostar is the brand name of the company running high speed trains London-Paris and London-Lille-Brussels through the Channel Tunnel. Answer   First you must drive from London to Folkestone. Once out of London traffic, this is easy, but allow 2 hours. Then you have to get your car onto the train … for the passage through the tunnel. assume a wait of one hour and a passage of half an hour.
A train takes approximately 25 minutes to go through the Channel Tunnel. The Channel Tunnel opened in 1994. You have two options for travelling through the Channel Tunnel. You can take a high speed passenger train, or you can put your car one of the drive-on, drive-off vehicle transporting trains. Answer   First you must drive from London to Folkestone. Once out of London traffic, this is easy, but allow 2 hours. Then you have to get your car onto the train … for the passage through the tunnel. assume a wait of one hour and a passage of half an hour.
· just now. Report Abuse. You drive your car onto a train and get out. You do not drive your car to England thru the chunnel nor do you stay in your car. Use this link http://www.eurotunnel.com/ukcp3main However, if the weather is nice a ferry ride it much more scenic and does not take that long and is cheaper. My husband and I want to drive to France through the Eurotunnel, but I have absolutely no idea how to do it.