Andrew Shaw-W - Blackhawks. Andrew Shaw scored his first goal of the postseason when he dug the puck out from Nate Prosser and fired it past Devan Dubnyk on Thursday night. It was a gritty goal as Prosser tried to pause play by laying on top of the puck, but Shaw wouldn't have any of it. Look for Andrew Shaw to get a chance to play alongside Jonathan Toews and Marian Hossa on Sunday against St. Louis. Marko Dano seems to have the upper hand in nailing down the open coveted spot on the Hawks' first line, but Shaw will give it a go against the Blues Sunday.
(4/20/15) Andrew Shaw picked up an assist in Sunday's Game 3 victory over the Predators. April 10, 2015: Blackhawks' Andrew Shaw fined $2,000 for diving. Andrew Shaw was cited twice for diving/embellishment violations, triggering a $2,000 fine. April 5, 2015: WATCH: Blackhawks' Andrew Shaw launches himself into Barret Jackman. Blackhawks forward Andrew Shaw delivered a leaping check on Blues defenseman Barret Jackman.
(5/20/15) Andrew Shaw delivered a power-play goal to open the scoring in Game 2 against the Ducks on Tuesday. The Blackhawks proceeded to win, 3-2, in triple overtime. (5/8/15) Andrew Shaw tallied on a power play -- his first goal of the playoffs -- and went minus-2 in Thursday's Game 4 victory over Minnesota. Andrew Shaw was cited twice for diving/embellishment violations, triggering a $2,000 fine. April 5, 2015: WATCH: Blackhawks' Andrew Shaw launches himself into Barret Jackman. Blackhawks forward Andrew Shaw delivered a leaping check on Blues defenseman
Chicago Blackhawks forward Andrew Shaw suffered a lower-body injury against the Minnesota Wild during the first period Friday and did not return to Game 1 of their Western Conference second-round series. The Blackhawks won the game, 5-2. The Chicago Blackhawks' official Twitter page updated fans on the status of center Andrew Shaw: Just announced: Andrew Shaw will not return for tonight's game. #Blackhawks— Chicago Blackhawks (@NHLBlackhawks) May 3, 2014. Just announced: Andrew Shaw will not return for tonight's game.
Andrew Shaw has been making the most of his power-play time. He has two goals and one assist in his last four games, with all of those points coming on the power play. During five-on-five situations, he skates on the fourth line with Andrew Desjardins and Marcus Kruger. Look for Andrew Shaw to get a chance to play alongside Jonathan Toews and Marian Hossa on Sunday against St. Louis. Marko Dano seems to have the upper hand in nailing down the open coveted spot on the Hawks' first line, but Shaw will give it a go against the Blues Sunday.
Andrew Shaw (born July 20, 1991) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was selected by the Chicago Blackhawks in the 5th round (139th overall) of the 2011 NHL Entry Draft. Shaw grew up in Belleville, Ontario, two hours east of Toronto. When he was growing up many, including his own family, believed his younger brother Jason had the best shot at the NHL. Jason is currently a player in the Ontario Hockey League. Shaw also has an older brother named Josh.
Andrew Shaw-W - Blackhawks. Look for Andrew Shaw to get a chance to play alongside Jonathan Toews and Marian Hossa on Sunday against St. Louis. Marko Dano seems to have the upper hand in nailing down the open coveted spot on the Hawks' first line, but Shaw will give it a go against the Blues Sunday.
Chris Kuc of the Chicago Tribune updated Andrew Shaw's status for Game 3 and had more from head coach Joel Quenneville on when he could return: #Blackhawks' Andrew Shaw won't make trip to Minnesota and is out for Game 3 vs. Wild. Coach Joel Quenneville said Shaw could play in Game 4.— Chris Kuc (@ChrisKuc) May 5, 2014. #Blackhawks ' Andrew Shaw won't make trip to Minnesota and is out for Game 3 vs. Wild. Coach Joel Quenneville said Shaw could play in Game 4. The Chicago Blackhawks' official Twitter page updated fans on the status of center Andrew Shaw: Just announced: Andrew Shaw will not return for tonight's game. #Blackhawks— Chicago Blackhawks (@NHLBlackhawks) May 3, 2014. Just announced: Andrew Shaw will not return for tonight's game.
Andrew Shaw-W - Blackhawks. Andrew Shaw has spent the last two days at left wing alongside Jonathan Toews and Marian Hossa. However, Shaw is not a stranger to playing up and down the lineup on different positions. Look for Andrew Shaw to get a chance to play alongside Jonathan Toews and Marian Hossa on Sunday against St. Louis. Marko Dano seems to have the upper hand in nailing down the open coveted spot on the Hawks' first line, but Shaw will give it a go against the Blues Sunday.