How long does a USPS first class mail take from Florida to Oregon? Usually when you are selecting the style of shipping (normal, first class, overnight..etc) it will say in parentheses how many days it will take. In my experience first class …  mail takes 3 days, but it should be at it's destination by 5 days maximum. 3 people found this useful. 1 Employment Opportunities at the United States Post Office The United States Postal Service (USPS) is the second largest civilian employer in the United States.
Best Answer: It depends on how far it needs to travel and how close the sender & recipient are to a major mail depot. Some cities, such as Houston, TX, take an extra day within Houston's system. It can also be affected by what day of the week it is mailed. I have mailed a birthday card in Dallas, TX on Monday and it was delivered to a town in NH 30 mi north of Boston, NA, by end of day Thurs. I have also sent a curd to same address later in the week, Wed. or Thurs. and it took 10 days to be delivered to the same address. You can log onto www.USpS.com and input both zip codes to get an estimate of how long the Postmaster thinks it should take. My experience has been that it varies widely.
Using First Class Mail International, deliveries generally take between 7-21 days to arrive, although the USPS does not guarantee delivery dates or times. Mail may travel to its destination by ground, air or a combination of both. As a cost example, sending a 12-ounce package from the United States to London would cost $40.89 by Priority Mail International, whereas it would only cost $14.40 to send by First Class Package International Service (Commercial Base rates).
RE: How long does a first class mail take to deliver within UK? hi i ordered a game form Amazon.co.uk and payed extra for a first class mail and basically i was wondering how long it takes for a package to get delivered through 1st Class Mail. the deliver will take place within UK so its not coming from another country. thanks.
First-Class Mail. In most cases, the first-class mailing option takes from one to three days on average and three to five days for delivery to Alaska and Hawaii. To use the first-class mail option, prices are based on weight of up to 13 ounces maximum. 
How long does a USPS first class mail international take from US to Australia? This takes approximately 1-2 weeks, roughly 5-10 business days. 1 Employment Opportunities at the United States Post Office The United States Postal Service (USPS) is the second largest civilian employer in the United States.
Paying first class will not get the letter and if it does, it'll go as surface mail. Surface mail will take anything up to 3 months and the recipient will pay a surcharge for the privilege. Speak to your local post office or visit http://www.royalmail.com/portal/rm/conte... to see if how much poistage to Germany is. 
Timeframe. The United States Postal Services reports that as of January 2011, it takes an average of one to three days for First-Class Mail to arrive at its destination. Priority Mail takes an average of one to two days to arrive, according to the USPS. USPS only includes the time a package stays in transit in their estimations. Packages dropped off at a post office during business hours usually leave that day. Packages dropped off after hours may take an additional day