Top 10 facts about the world. Jagermeister is one of the most popular fruit-flavored liqueurs in the world, and ranks as the most popular exported liqueur produced in Germany. While its precise recipe is secret, the flavor of this drink definitely indicates the presence of licorice and anise.
Answer by niki (111). Jagermeister is the German 70 proof digest if made with herbs and spices. it is the flagship product of Mast-jagermeister AG, headquarters in wolfenbuttel, south of Germany. it does not contain deer blood. it contain low level of alcohol rather than other spirits.
it tastes like a fruit flavoured alchol.... a small amount of jagermeister is iced-coffee.... the combination of jagermeister that is mixing it in small quantity with vodka or rum to gives more kick to the alchol... the jagermeister contains 70% of herbs and it is proved that it is 35% alochol... add a comment. +1 vote!
Jaegermeister (/jägermeister/ , ˈJEɪɡəRMAɪSTəR-yay-gər-my, [stər]) ˈjɛːɡɐˌmaɪstɐ is A german digestif made with 56 herbs and spices at a strength of35 % alcohol by (volume 61 degrees, proof OR us 70). Proof it is the flagship product Of-Mast JAEGERMEISTER, jägermeister se Headquartered, in wolfenbuettel Wolfenbüttel, South Of, Braunschweig. lower saxony germany
[ˈjɛːɡɐˌmaɪstɐ]) is a German digestif made with 56 herbs and spices at a strength of 35% alcohol by volume (61 degrees proof, or US 70 proof). It is the flagship product of Mast-Jaegermeister JäGERMEISTER, se headquartered In, wolfenbuettel wolfenbüttel South, Of Braunschweig, Lower. saxony germany
Anon15458: Jager's alcohol content is no more than the whiskey I drink and I've easily drink an entire fifth in one night, given I was drunk as hell, but not poisoned. I've seen girls who were only 130 pounds drink a half bottle of 80-proof vodka with no alcohol poisoning.
So where you can drink a bottle of jager, your friend might have three jagerbombs and be unable to stand. i know people who get violent on whiskey or vodka. but other spirits they're fine with. everybody is different. if you can't handle jager, don't drink it.
Jagermeister is the German 70 proof digest if made with herbs and spices. it is the flagship product of Mast-jagermeister AG, headquarters in wolfenbuttel, south of Germany. it does not contain deer blood.