Personality Assessment... The Society for Personality Assessment is dedicated to the development of methods of personality assessment, the advancement of research on their effectiveness, the exchange of ideas about the theory and practice of assessment and the promotion of the applied practice of personality assessment. 
The study of personality has a broad and varied history in psychology with an abundance of theoretical traditions. The major theories include dispositional (trait) perspective, psychodynamic, humanistic, biological, behaviorist, evolutionary and social learning perspective. Biology plays a very important role in the development of personality. The study of the biological level in personality psychology focuses primarily on identifying the role of genetic determinants and how they mold individual personalities.
Although the widespread use of psychological testing is largely a phenomenon of the 20th century, it has been noted that rudimentary forms of testing date back to at least 2200 B.C., when the Chinese emperor had his officials examined every third year to determine their fitness for office (Gregory, 1992). However, Eysenck’s work on personality testing with criminals has been subject to a number of criticisms. One concern was that his measures were self-report questionnaires; the degree of transparency in the material left them susceptible to response biases.
Personality psychology is a branch of psychology that studies personality and its variation among individuals. Biology plays a very important role in the development of personality. The study of the biological level in personality psychology focuses primarily on identifying the role of genetic determinants and how they mold individual personalities.
Research in this area is empirically driven, such as dimensional models, based on multivariate statistics, such as factor analysis, or emphasizes theory development, such as that of the psychodynamic theory. There is also a substantial emphasis on the applied field of personality testing. In psychological education and training, the study of the nature of personality and its psychological development is usually reviewed as a prerequisite to courses in abnormal psychology or clinical psychology. Biology plays a very important role in the development of personality. The study of the biological level in personality psychology focuses primarily on identifying the role of genetic determinants and how they mold individual personalities.
1 1 The History ofPsychological Testing T OPIC 1A The Origins of Psychological Testing The Importance of Testing Case Exhibit 1.1 The Consequences of Test ResultsRudimentary Forms of Testing in China in 2200 B. Of course, thetotal number of tests administered yearly also in-cludes millions of personality tests and untoldnumbers of the thousands of other kinds of testsnow in existence (Conoley & Kramer, 1989, 1992;Mitchell, 1985; Sweetland & Keyser, 1987). Thereis no doubt that testing is pervasive.
Psychological Assessment ® is concerned mainly with empirical research relevant to assessments conducted in the broad field of clinical psychology. Integrative reviews of research in this area are also welcome. Brief Reports. Psychological Assessment will review brief reports of research studies in clinical assessment. The procedure is intended to permit the publication of carefully designed studies with a narrow focus or of specialized interest.
For example, some psychometric researchers have, thus far, concerned themselves with the construction and validation of assessment instruments such as questionnaires, tests, raters' judgments, and personality tests. Psychological testing has come from two streams of thought: one, from Darwin, Galton, and Cattell on the measurement of individual differences, and the second, from Herbart, Weber, Fechner, and Wundt and their psychophysical measurements of a similar construct.
Another part of the field is concerned with statistical research bearing on measurement theory (e.g., item response theory; intraclass correlation). As a result of these focuses, psychometric research involves two major tasks: (i) the construction of instruments; and (ii) the development of procedures for measurement. Psychological testing has come from two streams of thought: one, from Darwin, Galton, and Cattell on the measurement of individual differences, and the second, from Herbart, Weber, Fechner, and Wundt and their psychophysical measurements of a similar construct.