The longest vein in the body is the great saphenous vein, a  superficial vein found in the leg. The number of veins in the human body varies a lot from person to  person and there are too many to count.    Answer 2:   ive heard 10,000 to 50,000 yards of veins … we have 137 veins in our body. + 5 others found this useful. Candace Campos.
The longest vein in the body is the great saphenous vein, a superficial vein found in the leg. The deep veins are essenti … ally a column of blood running from your head to you feet and so when one is standing are under high pressure. In order to keep this pressure away from the frail superficial veins the penetrating veins have valves.
The great saphenous vein is the longest vein in the body. It begins in the medial marginal vein of the dorsum of the foot and ends in the femoral vein about 3 cm below the inguinal ligament. The great saphenous vein (v. saphena magna; internal or long saphenous vein), the longest vein in the body, begins in the medial marginal vein of the dorsum of the foot and ends in the femoral vein about 3 cm. below the inguinal ligament.
The great saphenous vein is a superficial vein that runs through the subcutaneous tissue layer deep to the dermis and superficial to the skeletal muscles of the foot and leg.... Click to read more below. The great saphenous vein is the major superficial vein of the medial leg and thigh. It is the longest vein in the human body, extending from the top of the foot to the upper thigh and groin. The great saphenous vein plays an important role in returning blood from the superficial tissues of the leg to the heart and is also used in several medical procedures due to its size and superficial location. At the top of the thigh, it passes through the saphenous opening of the fascia lata and enters the deeper tissues of the upper thigh before merging into the femoral vein. An extensive network of superficial veins connects to the great saphenous vein throughout its length.
581), the longest vein in the body, begins in the medial marginal vein of the dorsum of the foot and ends in the femoral vein about 3 cm. below the inguinal ligament. It ascends in front of the tibial malleolus and along the medial side of the leg in relation with the saphenous nerve. The veins of the lower extremity are subdivided, like those of the upper, into two sets, superficial and deep; the superficial veins are placed beneath the integument between the two layers of superficial fascia; the deep veins accompany the arteries.
Superficial vein is a vein that is close to the surface of the body. This differs from deep veins that are far from the surface. Superficial veins are not paired with an artery, unlike the deep veins, which typically have an artery with the same name close by. Superficial veins are important physiologically for cooling of the body. When the body is too hot the body shunts blood from the deep veins to the superficial veins, to facilitate heat transfer to the surroundings. Superficial veins can be seen under the skin. Those below the level of the heart tend to bulge out
Report Abuse. Saphenous Vein This is the longest vein in the body. It is found in the leg and runs from the foot to the groin. This vein is commonly used in Coronary Artery Bypass Graft operations (CABG), where it is grafted to replace an artery of the heart that has become blocked. Depending on your height, it varies. The great saphenous vein (v. saphena magna; internal or long saphenous vein), the longest vein in the body, begins in the medial marginal vein of the dorsum of the foot and ends in the femoral vein about 3 cm. below the inguinal ligament.
Superficial vein collecting blood from the inner leg and thigh and receiving blood from certain veins of the foot; it is the longest vein in the body. Fourth segment of the aorta circulating to all the organs and to the walls of the abdomen; it branches into the common iliac arteries. 
The great saphenous vein is the longest vein in the body. It is a  superficial vein located in the leg. The deep veins are essenti … ally a column of blood running from your head to you feet and so when one is standing are under high pressure. In order to keep this pressure away from the frail superficial veins the penetrating veins have valves.