On May 7, 2009, in promotion for their second studio album, Method Man & Redman released a mixtape titled Lights Out, which was hosted by DJ Green Lantern. In 2013, Method Man and Redman previewed a new track called Lookin’ Fly Too. They continue to record together with both eyeing careers beyond DefJam. The follow-up album, Blackout! 2, was released in 2009. Method Man often gives a shout out to Redman on tracks that do not feature Redman; this usually comes in the form of What up, Doc! referring to Redman's alias Funk Doctor Spock.
Music video by Method Man, Redman performing Whateva Man. (C) 1996 The Island Def Jam Music Group. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Method Man has appeared in films such as Belly, How High, Garden State, The Wackness, Venom, Red Tails and The Cobbler. On television, he and frequent collaborator, fellow East Coast rapper Redman, co-starred on the short-lived Fox sitcom Method & Red. Crystal Meth was to be Method Man's upcoming fifth and final studio album. The album has no confirmed release date. The Crystal Meth was first announced before Method Man began working on his and Redman's sophomore collaboration album, Blackout! 2.
Redman also stated at a recent concert (at the Soundset in Minneapolis) that he and Method Man are working on How High 2, a sequel to the first movie. Redman also played a major role in the horror film Seed of Chucky. He is also well known for his collaborations with Method Man, as one-half of the rap duo Method Man & Redman, including their starring roles in films and sitcoms.
Answer by Tivo2n. Confidence votes 111. No, they are not..method man was originally with the Wu tang clan and he hooked up with redman who used to be apart of the hit squad which consisted of epmd, k-solo. Clifford Smith (born April 1, 1971), better known by his stage name Method Man or Meth. Method man is from Staten Island, New York. 
Clifford Smith (born March 2, 1971), better known by his stage name Method Man, is an American rapper, record producer, and actor. He took his stage name from the 1979 film Method Man. He is perhaps best known as a member of the East Coast hip hop collective Wu-Tang Clan. Crystal Meth was to be Method Man's upcoming fifth and final studio album. The album has no confirmed release date. The Crystal Meth was first announced before Method Man began working on his and Redman's sophomore collaboration album, Blackout! 2.
read more. Redman (born Reggie Noble on April 17, 1970 in Newark, New Jersey) made his rapping debut on the EPMD songs Hardcore and Brothers on my Jock, after Erick Sermon of the seminal group spotted him freestyling in a New York club and added him to their crew of aspiring emcees (along with K-Solo among others). 
He came to fame in the early 1990s as an artist on the Def Jam label. He is also well known for his collaborations with Method Man, as one-half of the rap duo Method Man & Redman, including their starring roles in films and sitcoms. He was also a member of the Def Squad in the late 1990s
Method Man & Redman. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Method Man & Redman (also referred to as Red & Mef, Mef & Red, Mr. Mef and Funk Doc or Funk Doc and Johnny Blaze), are an American hip hop duo, composed of East Coast rappers Method Man (of Wu-Tang Clan) and Redman (of Def Squad). They are signed to Def Jam Recordings as both solo artists and as a duo. The follow-up album, Blackout! 2, was released in 2009. Method Man often gives a shout out to Redman on tracks that do not feature Redman; this usually comes in the form of What up, Doc! referring to Redman's alias Funk Doctor Spock.