Steatorrhea (or steatorrhoea) is the presence of excess fat in feces. Stools may also float due to excess gas, have an oily appearance and can be especially foul-smelling. An oily anal leakage or some level of fecal incontinence may occur. There is increased fat excretion, which can be measured by determining the fecal fat level. The definition of how much fecal fat constitutes steatorrhea has not been standardized. Consuming escolar and oilfish (sometimes called butterfish) will often cause steatorrhea, also referred to as Gempylotoxism or Gempylid Fish Poisoning or keriorrhea. The fish is commonly used in party catering due to its delicate flavor and because it is cheap and readily available.
The symptoms of steatorrhea actually vary, depending on the underlying cause. The following are the typical symptoms of the condition based on the area affected. Digestive tract symptoms: 1  Pain and cramping in the abdomen. 2  Abdominal bloating. 3  Foul-smelling stool. 4  Black and tarry stool. 5  Diarrhea. Biliary tract causes of Steatorrhea. 1  Biliary atresia – congenital disorder wherein there is failure of the biliary ducts to completely develop. 2  Biliary stricture or narrowing of the common bile ducts. 3  Malignancies of the biliary tracts or the gallbladder. 4  Presence of gallstones.
Steatorrhea may be accompanied by abdominal pain. Steatorrhea may occur in celiac disease. Steatorrhea may occur in cystic fibrosis. The giardia parasite can give rise to steatorrhea. Malabsorption due to steatorrhea may cause weight loss and fatigue. Steatorrhea that occurs with digestive problems may signify chronic pancreatitis. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Steatorrhea is a condition where a substantial amount of fat is found in the feces. The presence of excess fat in feces means that malabsorption is occurring, where food is not properly absorbed from the gut.
Ad. Steatorrhea may also occur in celiac disease, an autoimmune disease where the body attacks itself while making antibodies against gluten. This causes inflammation of the gut, damaging the lining so it is less able to absorb food. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Steatorrhea is a condition where a substantial amount of fat is found in the feces. The presence of excess fat in feces means that malabsorption is occurring, where food is not properly absorbed from the gut.
The transit time of stools may also be very fast that there was less exposure to the bile. YELLOW. Yellow-colored stool is also due to consuming too much yellow color food, drinks or medicines. This may also be an outcome of infection or malabsorption of fat in the stool (steatorrhea). 
This test measures the amount of fat in your stool. Having too much fat in your stool is called steatorrhea. If you have too much fat in your stool, it may be a sign that food is moving through your digestive system without being broken down and absorbed properly. This is called malabsorption. Having a fecal fat test is the best way to find out if you have malabsorption.
Steatorrhea can be temporary or persistent. The former is believed to be the result from changes in the diet or the presence of infection in the intestine. On the other hand, persistent steatorrhea occurs as a result from diseases of the biliary tract, pancreas, as well the intestines. Biliary tract causes of Steatorrhea. 1  Biliary atresia – congenital disorder wherein there is failure of the biliary ducts to completely develop. 2  Biliary stricture or narrowing of the common bile ducts. 3  Malignancies of the biliary tracts or the gallbladder. 4  Presence of gallstones.
Second is the bile salt insufficiency steatorrhea that is due to the failure of the secretion of bile acids in the circulation. Third group group of steatorrhea is the malabsorption steatorrhea which is due to medications, surgeries and disorders of small intestines. First group of steatorrhea is the pancreatic deficiency steatorrhea due to the insufficient production of colipase and lipase to let the normal hydrolysis of lipid work. It takes place due to chronic pancreatitis and absence of the acinar cells.
The term Steatorrhea means that there are fatty components present in the stool. Once the stool has fatty particles, it leads to a stool that is bulky and floats, greasy in appearance, and has a foul smell. Biliary tract causes of Steatorrhea. 1  Biliary atresia – congenital disorder wherein there is failure of the biliary ducts to completely develop. 2  Biliary stricture or narrowing of the common bile ducts. 3  Malignancies of the biliary tracts or the gallbladder. 4  Presence of gallstones.