A thyroid scan is a procedure that uses nuclear medicine imaging to evaluate the way your thyroid functions. Your thyroid is the gland that controls your body’s metabolism. It is located in your neck. 1 A radioactive iodine uptake test (RAIU) test measures thyroid function without imaging. 2  A whole-body thyroid scan, or metastatic survey, is used to evaluate patients with thyroid cancer. 3  The scan evaluates the spread of thyroid cancer to other parts of your body.
A thyroid scan can show the size, shape, and location of the thyroid gland. It can also find areas of the thyroid gland that are overactive or underactive. The camera takes pictures of the thyroid gland from three different angles. The radioactive tracer used in this test is either iodine or technetium. A radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU) test may also be done to find problems with how the thyroid gland works, such as hyperthyroidism. To learn more, see the topic Radioactive Iodine Uptake Test
Thyroid Scan and Uptake. Thyroid scan and uptake uses small amounts of radioactive materials called radiotracers, a special camera and a computer to provide information about your thyroid’s size, shape, position and function that is often unattainable using other imaging procedures. The thyroid scan is used to determine the size, shape and position of the thyroid gland. The thyroid uptake is performed to evaluate the function of the gland. A whole-body thyroid scan is typically performed on people who have or had thyroid cancer. A physician may perform these imaging tests to:
For thyroid tests, radioactive iodine typically is used. Your thyroid and most types of thyroid cancer absorb iodine naturally. After the radioactive iodine accumulates in the thyroid tissue, the radioactive emissions can be detected by equipment outside the body, allowing your doctor to evaluate your thyroid function. 1 A radioactive iodine uptake test (RAIU) test measures thyroid function without imaging. 2  A whole-body thyroid scan, or metastatic survey, is used to evaluate patients with thyroid cancer. 3  The scan evaluates the spread of thyroid cancer to other parts of your body.
The T4 test is known as the thyroxine test. The TSH test measures the level of thyroid-stimulating hormone in your blood. These are the two most common thyroid function tests and are usually ordered together. They are routinely performed on newborn babies to identify a low-functioning thyroid gland. Drawing Blood for Thyroid Function Tests. Talk to your doctor about any medications you are taking and tell your doctor if you are pregnant. Certain medications and pregnancy may influence your test results. A blood draw, also known as venipuncture, is an outpatient procedure performed at a lab or a doctor’s office.
Follow-Up. If your blood work suggests that your thyroid gland is overactive or underactive, your doctor may order a thyroid uptake test or an ultrasound test to ensure that the problem is not due to a structural problem with the thyroid gland or a tumor. Drawing Blood for Thyroid Function Tests. Talk to your doctor about any medications you are taking and tell your doctor if you are pregnant. Certain medications and pregnancy may influence your test results. A blood draw, also known as venipuncture, is an outpatient procedure performed at a lab or a doctor’s office.
Thyroid hormone tests are done to: 1  Find out what is causing an abnormal thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) test. 2  Check how well treatment of thyroid disease is working. 3  Screen newborns to find out if the thyroid gland function is normal. Why It Is Done. Thyroid hormone tests are done to: 1  Find out what is causing an abnormal thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) test. 2  For more information, see the topic Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH) . 3  This is the most common reason for thyroid hormone tests. 4  Check how well treatment of thyroid disease is working
Guide. Thyroid hormone tests are blood tests that check how well the thyroid gland is working. The thyroid gland makes hormones that regulate the way the body uses energy. The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped gland that lies in front of your windpipe (trachea), just below your voice box (larynx). Why It Is Done. Thyroid hormone tests are done to: 1  Find out what is causing an abnormal thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) test. 2  For more information, see the topic Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH) . 3  This is the most common reason for thyroid hormone tests. 4  Check how well treatment of thyroid disease is working