Tesla Motors Salary. Tesla Motors average salary is $99,868, median salary is $95,000 with a salary range from $47,590 to $250,000. Tesla Motors salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Tesla Motors salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only.
Engineer in Trainings also rank high on the pay scale, with expected average earnings of $98K per year. Tesla Motors workers who hold a Doctorate (PhD) are also well compensated, earning $120K on average. When it comes to location, the highest average paycheck (approximately $99K per year) can be spotted in Palo Alto, Calif.; San Francisco, Calif. (about $95K), Fremont, Calif. ($91K), and Mountain View, Calif. ($90K) are the next top-paying cities. Austin, Texas is near the bottom for pay at about $50K.
Tesla Motors is an aggressive young company in the San Francisco Bay Area. Tesla has delivered over 30,000 electric vehicles to customers... 3 days ago-save job-email-more... 1 View all Tesla Motors jobs in Fremont, CA-Fremont jobs. 2  Salary Search: Equipment Maintenance Technician salaries in Fremont, CA. 3  Learn more about working at Tesla Motors. 4  Related forums: tesla motors-Fremont, California - -.
Tesla Motors is looking for an experienced Parts Advisor to work on one of the most progressive vehicle brands in the world.... 12 days ago-save job-more... Tesla Motors is looking for experienced Service Manager(s) to work on one of the most progressive vehicles in the world.... 25 days ago-save job-more... 1  View all Tesla Motors jobs-Toronto jobs
1 View all Tesla Motors jobs in Fremont, CA-Fremont jobs. 2  Salary Search: Charging Experience Specialist salaries in Fremont, CA. 3  Learn more about working at Tesla Motors. 4  Related forums: tesla motors-Fremont, California - -. 1 View all Tesla Motors jobs in Fremont, CA-Fremont jobs. 2  Salary Search: Equipment Maintenance Technician
Tesla Motors is looking for an experienced Vehicle Technician to work on one of the most progressive vehicle brands in the world.... 17 days ago-save job-more... 1  View all Tesla Motors jobs-Calgary jobs. Tesla Motors is looking for experienced Service Manager(s) to work on one of the most progressive vehicles in the world.... 25 days ago-save job-more... 1  View all Tesla Motors jobs-Toronto
Tesla Motors is looking for a Service Assistant to work on one of the most progressive vehicles in the world. The Service Assistant is a key contributor in the... 5 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Tesla Motors jobs in Fremont, CA-Fremont jobs. 2  Salary Search: Service Assistant salaries in Fremont, CA. 1 View all Tesla Motors jobs in Fremont, CA-Fremont jobs. 2  Salary Search: Equipment Maintenance Technician salaries in Fremont, CA. 3  Learn more about working at Tesla Motors. 4  Related forums: tesla motors-Fremont, California - -.
Tesla Motors is a automobile firm headquartered in San Carlos, Calif. that hires for Mechanical Engineer positions, Manufacturing Engineer roles, and more. The median salary at Tesla Motors is $90K annually. How long you've been working primarily drives compensation; however, where you live and your role at the company are also reported as secondary influences on salary at Tesla Motors. When it comes to location, the highest average paycheck (approximately $99K per year) can be spotted in Palo Alto, Calif.; San Francisco, Calif. (about $95K), Fremont, Calif. ($91K), and Mountain View, Calif. ($90K) are the next top-paying cities. Austin, Texas is near the bottom for pay at about $50K.