The shingles vaccine is a live vaccine given as a single injection, usually in the upper arm. The most common side effects of the shingles vaccine are redness, pain, tenderness, swelling and itching at the injection site, and headaches. Some people report a chickenpox-like rash after getting the shingles vaccine. The shingles vaccine (Zostavax) is recommended for adults age 60 and older, whether they've already had shingles or not. Although the vaccine is approved for people age 50 and older, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention isn't recommending it until you reach age 60
ZOSTAVAX® (Zoster Vaccine Live) Suspension for subcutaneous injection Initial U.S. Approval: 2006 ---------------------------- INDICATIONS AND USAGE ---------------------------- ZOSTAVAX is a live attenuated virus vaccine indicated for prevention of herpes zoster (shingles) in individuals 50 years of age and older. 
Zostavax is an FDA licensed vaccine that helps to reduce the risk of getting herpes zoster (shingles) in individuals 50 years of age and older. Zostavax is the only US licensed vaccine that reduces the risk of reactivation of the varicella zoster virus, the same one that causes chicken pox, and remains dormant in the body after recovering from chicken pox.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The zoster vaccine (trade name Zostavax) is a live vaccine developed by Merck & Co. that has been shown to reduce the incidence of herpes zoster (known as shingles) by 51.3% in a study of 38,000 adults aged 60 and older who received the vaccine. The zoster vaccine was approved and licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in May 2006. The FDA originally recommended it only for individuals 60 years of age or older who met the following requirements:
ZOSTAVAX is a live attenuated virus vaccine indicated for prevention of herpes zoster (shingles) in individuals 50 years of age and older. ZOSTAVAX is not indicated for the treatment of zoster or postherpetic neuralgia. ZOSTAVAX should not be used for prevention of primary varicella infection (Chickenpox). 
CDC recommends that people 60 years old and older get shingles vaccine to prevent shingles and PHN. Shingles vaccine has been used since 2006. Zostavax® is the only shingles vaccine currently approved for use in the United States. This vaccine reduces the risk of developing shingles by 51% and PHN by 67%. Some people should not get shingles vaccine: 1  A person who has ever had a life-threatening or severe allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of shingles vaccine. 2  Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies.
BRAND NAME: Zostavax. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Zoster vaccine contains live, attenuated (weakened) varicella-zoster virus (VZV). Varicella-zoster causes chickenpox and then becomes dormant in nerves. VZV reactivates and causes herpes zoster (shingles or zoster) later in life (usually 60 years of age or older) when immunity against VZV declines. Zoster vaccine stimulates the immune system to develop immunity against VZV. The FDA approved zoster vaccine in May 2006. 
People 60 years of age or older should get shingles vaccine. They should get the vaccine whether or not they recall having had chickenpox, which is caused by the same virus as shingles. Studies show that more than 99% of Americans aged 40 and older have had chickenpox, even if they don't remember getting the disease. Some people should not get shingles vaccine: 1  A person who has ever had a life-threatening or severe allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of shingles vaccine. 2  Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies.
The decision on when to get vaccinated should be made with your healthcare provider. Shingles vaccine is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for people aged 50 years and older. However, CDC does not have a recommendation for routine use of shingles vaccine in people 50 through 59 years old. Some people should not get shingles vaccine: 1  A person who has ever had a life-threatening or severe allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of shingles vaccine. 2  Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies.