1 A standard residential appraisal can cost $250-$1,000 or more, but averages about $300-$500. 2  For example, the Houston Appraisal Company in Texas starts its fees at $300 for a non-lender appraisal of a single-family home. 1 For example, Appraisal IQ in Texas charges $450 for a duplex and $500 for a fourplex; and AppraiserValues.com in Southern California charges $950-$1,900 and up for a four-page appraisal of a building with 5-60 rental units.
The cost of a home appraisal can vary greatly, depending on your geographic location. The square footage of the home and the availability of comps may also be significant cost factors. On average, the appraisal of a single family home should be about $327. Hello, Usually appraisal cost's can vary however median price for a Single Family home would be $450.00. Depending on the size of property, it can vary. A Realtor would be able to give you comparable's at no charge if you would like to know how much your home will sell for in today's market.
Appraisal Cost. If you look online, many appraisal companies online will ask you questions such as the square footage of your home or property, where is it located and what is the purpose of the appraisal. The average cost of an appraisal runs between $300-$400 dollars depending on the company you choose. Some companies may charge more as a result of The Home Valuation Code of Conduct, which raises costs to the customer and reduces the appraisers pay while creating inefficiencies. Where $350 was the average rate for an appraisal, it is now $400. An appraisal management company takes $100 out of the cost, just for picking an appraiser. If the bank were to honor the old price, then the appraiser that once made $350 would now only make $250
Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes. One Los Angeles firm, A1 Los Angeles Home Appraisal, charges $75 to $150 for travel costs for some appraisals. The company also charges $50 when customers require an appraisal within two days of an inspection and $100 more for FHA appraisals, which require a lengthier report.
The cost of a home appraisal depends on multiple factors, including region. The average price of a home appraisal was $438 in 2014, according to Bankrate's annual closing-costs survey. Alaska had the second highest-priced appraisal fees, with an average of $530. Overall, the Aloha State and the Last Frontier had some of the highest costs of doing business, with both ranking among the top five most expensive states for real estate closing costs, according to Bankrate's survey.
A home appraisal adds several hundred dollars to your closing costs on a purchase or refinance. The appraisal process generally involves an interior and exterior inspection of the property, an evaluation of comparable home prices in the area, and a formal report with a professional opinion of the home's value. Alaska had the second highest-priced appraisal fees, with an average of $530. Overall, the Aloha State and the Last Frontier had some of the highest costs of doing business, with both ranking among the top five most expensive states for real estate closing costs, according to Bankrate's survey.
Typical Home Appraisal Cost. Actual fees might be higher or lower depending on the specifics of your property. Please call 866-533-7173 or fill out form to your right for a free Quote on the exact fee and turn time.
The average cost of a home appraisal can vary depending on several different factors. Before entering into the appraisal process, it is important to know what an appraisal is, the different approaches taken to appraise your home and how much it costs in order to prepare you for what‘s ahead. Some companies may charge more as a result of The Home Valuation Code of Conduct, which raises costs to the customer and reduces the appraisers pay while creating inefficiencies. Where $350 was the average rate for an appraisal, it is now $400. An appraisal management company takes $100 out of the cost, just for picking an appraiser. If the bank were to honor the old price, then the appraiser that once made $350 would now only make $250
According to MortgageNewsDaily.com, the national average cost for an appraisal by a licensed professional is between $300 and $400 and should require roughly two hours of inspection time to complete. 