Catheter ablation is a treatment for cardiac arrhythmias. During ablation, a doctor inserts a catheter (thin, flexible tube) into the heart. A special machine delivers energy through the catheter to tiny areas of the heart muscle that cause the abnormal heart rhythm.
Cardiac ablation is a procedure used to destroy, or ablate, areas of the heart which are causing arrhythmias or disturbances in the normal rhythm of the heartbeat. These are not usually serious, but a persistent arrhythmia may be life threatening.
Catheter ablation (ab-LA-shun) is a medical procedure used to treat some types of arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah). An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. During catheter ablation, a series of catheters (thin, flexible wires) are put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin (upper thigh), or neck.
Cardiac ablation is a procedure that can correct heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias). Ablation usually uses long, flexible tubes (catheters) inserted through a vein in your groin and threaded to your heart to correct structural problems in your heart that cause an arrhythmia.
Cardiac ablation is a procedure that is used to scar small areas in your heart that may be involved in your heart rhythm problems. This can prevent the abnormal electrical signals or rhythms from moving through the heart.
Save. Heart ablation, or cardiac ablation, is a surgical procedure that is used to correct abnormal heart rhythms. Catheter tubes are used to correct structural heart problems that prevent normal heart rhythms. Malfunctioning heart tissue is scarred or destroyed.
Heart ablation, or cardiac ablation, is a surgical procedure that is used to correct abnormal heart rhythms. Catheter tubes are used to correct structural heart problems that prevent normal heart rhythms. Malfunctioning heart tissue is scarred or destroyed.
Catheter ablation is also used to help control other heart rhythm problems such as atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. Catheter ablation destroys the abnormal tissue without damaging the rest of the heart.