Title and Registration Rules. All vessels that require registration must be titled through the Washington State Department of Licensing. How to Apply for Registration or Title. Visit the Washington State Department of Licensing boat registration page.
To navigate, operate, employ, or moor your vessel in Washington, you must have a Washington title, registration card, and registration decals, except: 1  If your vessel is a canoe, kayak, or a vessel not propelled by a motor or sail. All vessels that require registration must be titled through the Washington State Department of Licensing. How to Apply for Registration or Title. Visit the Washington State Department of Licensing boat registration page.
Boat Requirements and Procedures. To register and title your boat in Washington, you'll need to: 1  Complete a Vessel Title Application (Form TD-420-289 - a dealer will do this for you if you bought it there). 2  Bring your out-of-state registration and title. 3  Provide proof you paid your boat's sales tax. 4  Pay all applicable fees. 5  Drop off completed transaction at any Department of ... Fees. You will pay fees for your boat are based on the length of your boat. You can calculate your fees by using the Department of Licensing boat fee calculator. For the title transfer you will pay an additional $12 service fee. Basic fees for boat registration in Washington include a $5 agent fee.
This means you must register your boat in Washington: 1  Within 60 days of moving to Washington with the vessel. 2  Within 15 days of buying the vessel, if bought it in another state and you live in Washington. 1 Proof you paid sales tax on the boat. 2  If you don’t have proof that you paid sales tax when you purchased it, you’ll be required to pay use tax. 3  A check or money order payable to the Department of Licensing to pay the fees.
You must title and register your boat in Washington State: 1  Within 60 days of moving to Washington with the boat. 2  Within 15 days of buying the boat, if you live in Washington and bought the boat in another state. 1 Proof you paid sales tax on the boat. 2  If you don’t have proof that you paid sales tax when you purchased it, you’ll be required to pay use tax. 3  A check or money order payable to the Department of Licensing to pay the fees.
If you live in Washington and bought the boat in another state, you must title and register your vessel within 15 days of its purchase. Visit the Washington Department of Licensing Web site for specific requirements related to applications, fees, and more. All vessels that require registration must be titled through the Washington State Department of Licensing. How to Apply for Registration or Title. Visit the Washington State Department of Licensing boat registration page.
There are several ways to renew your boat registration: 1  Join or login to License eXpress. 2  Securely renew and manage your vehicles, motorcycles, trailers, driver license and their addresses all in one place! 3  Pay with a Visa, MasterCard, or American Express debit or credit card (no gift cards). 4  To learn more, see What is License eXpress. 5  Renew 6  ... Pa 1 Renew by mail. 2  If you get email renewal reminders, you may print the reminder email and mail it to any vehicle/boat licensing office. ( 3 For boats, email reminders are the only option. 4  We don’t mail paper reminders anymore.). 5  Pay with a check or money order.
How to register your boat. To title and register your boat in Washington: 1  Provide all of the following: 2  A completed Vessel Title Application. 3  If you bought the boat at a dealer, they’ll complete this form for you.). 4  Your current out-of-state registration. 1 Proof you paid sales tax on the boat. 2  If you don’t have proof that you paid sales tax when you purchased it, you’ll be required to pay use tax. 3  A check or money order payable to the Department of Licensing to pay the fees.