The name Clara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Clara is: Bright. Latin Meaning: The name Clara is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Clara is: From the feminine form of the Latin adjective 'clarus' meaning bright or clear. Also distinguished. Famous bearer: Twelfth century St Clare (or Clara) of Assisi founded the Poor Clares order of nuns. 
The meaning of the name Clara: Illustrious. The origin of the name Clara: Latin. People who like the name Clara also like: Charlotte, Claire, Amelia, Ella, Violet, Alice, Audrey. Henry, Oliver, Noah, Liam, William, Benjamin, Owen. Notes: Clara is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Clara is illustrious. The most common nickname for the name Clara is Claire. Clara Bow was a famous actress. Clara Barton was a famous nurse. Clara Luper was an American civil rights activist.
Claire /clai-re/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used less generally as boys' name Claire) is pronounced clare. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Claire is bright, famous. French form of Clara. Introduced to Britain by the Normans, but then abandoned. 
Clara /cla-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Clara is bright, famous. Post-classical name from the feminine form of the adjective clarus. In the modern English-speaking world, it represents a re-Latinization of the normal English form Clare. Also a nickanme for Clarissa. Clara is a very popular first name for women (#144 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#22870 out of 150436, Top 15%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Clara for girls.
Derived from the Latin clārus (bright, clear, famous). Clare is a common name throughout Europe and the British Isles, its popularity once due in part to the fame of St. Clare of Assisi (c. 1193 - 1253). The Italian nun who founded the order of the Poor Clares. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
· just now. Report Abuse. meaning: Clear; bright; famous origin:latin other:Clara is currently particularly popular in Belgium - 6th most popular name there in 2006, and Denmark, where it was #12 and France. Clara is a town in Offaly, in the middle of Ireland. Best Answer: This name used to be extremely popular, though in the English-speaking world it has now been almost entirely replaced by Claire or Clare. In German-speaking countries, the name Klara is still in use. The name is late Latin in origin; it comes from the feminine form of the adjective clarus, or famous..
Origin: French Meaning: Clear, bright. A variant of the English Clara. Famous bearer: British actress Claire Bloom. Origin: Latin Meaning: Variant of Clara: From the feminine form of the Latin adjective 'clarus' meaning bright or clear. Also distinguished. Famous bearer: Twelfth century St Clare (or Clara) of Assisi founded the Poor Clares order of nuns
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Clara and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Clara and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 