Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). 
Insulin is produced by the beta cells of the islets of Lagerhans, which lie interspersed in the pancreatic follicles.   In layman's terms, that means it's produced in the p … ancreas.     In the human body, the organ called the pancreas releases insulin. Insulin is produced in the pacreas by the Islets of Langerhans. For high blood sugars (above 120 or so) insulin is secreted. 48 people found this useful.
on the Body. Insulin is a hormone produced by the pancreas. Its function is to allow other cells to transform glucose into energy throughout your body. Without insulin, cells are starved for energy and must seek an alternate source. This can lead to life-threatening complications. In Type 2 diabetes, the pancreas initially produces insulin, but the cells of your body are unable to make good use of the insulin (insulin resistance). Uncontrolled diabetes allows glucose to build up in the blood rather than being distributed to cells or stored.
Insulin is a natural hormone produced in the pancreas. When you eat, your pancreas releases insulin to help your body make energy out of sugars (glucose). It also helps you store energy. Insulin is a vital part of metabolism. Without it, your body would cease to function. In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas is no longer able to produce insulin. In Type 2 diabetes, the pancreas initially produces insulin, but the cells of your body are unable to make good use of the insulin (insulin resistance). Uncontrolled diabetes allows glucose to build up in the blood rather than being distributed to cells or stored.
The pancreas is where your body manufactures your insulin for use. If your body doesn't use the insulin produced effectively medication can be given to help keep your blood sugars in control. Some of the medications make your body more receptive to the insulin you have. Hope this helps with your question. · just now. Report Abuse. the insulin creating organ in the human body is the pancreas. Production of hormones to control blood sugar levels A small proportion (1-2 per cent) of the pancreas is made up of other types of cells called islets of Langerhans.
Insulin by the PancreasThe pancreas produces Insulin via the beta cells. The hormone enhances metabolism by enabling body parts to take in glucose from the blood and store it … as glycogen, an energy source, when there is too much glucose in the blood stream or is left over after eating. In the human body, the organ called the pancreas releases insulin. Insulin is produced in the pacreas by the Islets of Langerhans.
Insulin is a hormone. It makes our body's cells absorb glucose from the blood. The glucose is stored in the liver and muscle as glycogen and stops the body from using fat as a source of energy. When there is very little insulin in the blood, or none at all, glucose is not taken up by most body cells. The exocrine pancreas is the part of the pancreas that produces digestive juices. Insulin is produced in the pancreas. When protein is ingested insulin is released. Insulin is also released when glucose is present in
Insulin (from the Latin, insula meaning island) is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells in the pancreas. It regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats by promoting the absorption of glucose from the blood to skeletal muscles and fat tissue and by causing fat to be stored rather than used for energy. 
Best Answer: Your pancreas controls the insulin in your body. Type 1 diabetes is where you are born with it, but your pancreas does not work and your are insulin dependent. Type 2 diabetes your pancreas works but needs help by injecting insulin to provide what your body does not make. Or taking a pill or controling it by food if you are border line. Source(s):