Physicist's answer ahead: Prepare a bowl of (melting) ice water on a day where the barometer is near 1013 mbar of pressure. Stick your sensor in it. The reading you get at equilibrium is your 0C reading. Prepare a pan of slowly boiling water, also on a day where the barometer is near 1013 mbar of pressure. Stick your sensor in it. The reading you get at equilibrium is your 100C reading. 
Calibrating Temperature Measurement Devices. The simplest way to calibrate a temperature sensor is to check how it reads the temperature of two physical constants: the temperature at which ice melts and the boiling point of water (although the latter should be corrected for atmospheric pressure) . In many industries controlling temperature is insufficient: it is important to have documentation of the temperature or thermal cycle to which the product was subjected. Such logs are required in food processing and pharmaceutical production and storage.
Temperature sensors are used in applications ranging from mobile phones to food refrigeration. But where quality measurements are critical, their calibration is essential, writes David Southworth, sales & marketing manager at Isothermal Technology, a company with 30 years of experience in temperature calibration. To calibrate the whole measuring loop a portable heat source can be used in situ. Now, the sensor can be placed into a heat source and temperature cycled so that the whole loop, sensor and instrument can be verified. Portable and transportable heat sources are now available to cover the range from -100°C to 1300°C.
It is also important to allow the calibrator to run for a minimum of 30-40 seconds to assure a stable signal is being applied to the microphone. During calibration it is important to not touch the microphone, as this can alter the temperature of the microphone by the application of body heat. Regular (daily) calibration checks establish a record of the operation of your instrumentation, not just the sensor, but the entire measurement chain. This is important as cabling and other parts of the measurement chain may wear out, and a recent calibration check for comparison can help rule out a faulty sensor.
It is important therefore to understand exactly what service you require.It is also important to understand what is being calibrated and how the calibration is being performed. As an example, consider a digital thermometer that uses an external temperature probe. Manufacturing processes that require specific controlled curing temperatures are another in fact the list goes on. In summary, calibration is vitally important wherever measurements are important, it enables users and businesses to have confidence in the results that they monitor record and subsequently control.
It is also important to understand what is being calibrated and how the calibration is being performed. As an example, consider a digital thermometer that uses an external temperature probe. Posted on December 10, 2012 by copels — No Comments ↓. Calibration is defined as an association between measurements – one of a scale or accuracy made or set with one piece of equipment and another measurement made in as similar a way as possible with a second piece of equipment.
Introduction to process and temperature instrument calibration. A calibrator is an equipment used to adjust an instrument accuracy, often associated with a specific application. The most sophisticated industrial equipment will not be very useful unless it is calibrated. All or part of the components used in an industrial process can be calibrated. A temperature calibration, for example, could involve a probe alone, an instrument alone, or a probe connected to an instrument (a system calibration). Adjustments made during calibration must fall within certain tolerances.
Introduction to Instrument Calibration. A calibrator is an equipment used to adjust an instrument accuracy, often associated with a specific application. The most sophisticated industrial equipment will not be very useful unless it is calibrated. All or part of the components used in an industrial process can be calibrated. A temperature calibration, for example, could involve a probe alone, an instrument alone, or a probe connected to an instrument (a system calibration).