The pancreas has two general jobs which are very important = it releases digestive juices (enzymes) and that process is called an exocrine function. The pancreas releases hormones into the blood which help control your blood sugars (glucose). These two important chemicals are called insulin and glucagon. Insulin is released after you eat, or you have too much sugar (glucose) in your blood
Definition of PANCREAS for Kids. : a large gland near the stomach that produces insulin and a fluid (pancreatic juice) with enzymes that aid digestion. Full Definition of PANCREAS. : a large lobulated gland of vertebrates that secretes digestive enzymes and the hormones insulin and glucagon. — pan·cre·at·ic \ˌpaŋ-krē-ˈa-tik, ˌpan-\ adjective. See pancreas defined for English-language learners. See pancreas defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
The pancreas is a part of the body's digestive system. It produces juices called enzymes, which help the body to digest food. The pancreas also produces two kinds of hormones, or substances that control certain activities in the body. All animals that have a backbone have a pancreas. Now readers of your website, blog-post, or any other web content can enjoy full access to this article on pancreas, or any other Britannica Online for Kids premium article for free, even if they do not have a membership.
The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. Blood sugar is used by the body for energy. An understanding of the two functional components of the pancreas is important for two reasons. The bulk of the pancreas is composed of “exocrine” cells that produce enzymes to help with the digestion of food. These exocrine cells release their enzymes into a series of progressively larger tubes (called ducts) that eventually join together to form the main pancreatic duct.
When your sugar (glucose) is low, the pancreas releases another hormone called glucagon. This makes the liver release sugars, which keeps your brain and other organs that depend on sugar (glucose) happy. The pancreas releases hormones into the blood which help control your blood sugars (glucose). These two important chemicals are called insulin and glucagon. Insulin is released after you eat, or you have too much sugar (glucose) in your blood
Pancreas: A spongy, tube-shaped organ that is about 6 inches long and is located in the back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The head of the pancreas is on the right side of the abdomen. It is connected to the upper end of the small intestine. The narrow end of the pancreas, called the tail, extends to the left side of the body. The pancreas makes pancreatic juices and hormones, including insulin and secretin. The pancreas is thus a compound gland in the sense that it is composed of both exocrine and endocrine tissues. The exocrine function of the pancreas involves the synthesis and secretion of pancreatic juices.
Pancreas and insulin. Your pancreas is one of the organs of your digestive system. It lies in your abdomen, behind your stomach. It is a long thin structure with 2 main functions: 1  producing digestive enzymes to break down food; and. 2  producing the hormones insulin and glucagon to control sugar levels in your body. Production of digestive enzymes. The pancreas produces secretions necessary for you to digest food. The enzymes in these secretions allow your body to digest protein, fat and starch from your food. The enzymes are produced in the acinar cells which make up most of the pancreas.
Tubes carry enzymes from the pancreas to the small intestine. Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia, Britannica. Inc the pancreas is a part of the'body s digestive. System it produces juices called, enzymes which help the body to digest. food Now readers of your website, blog-post, or any other web content can enjoy full access to this article on pancreas, or any other Britannica Online for Kids premium article for free, even if they do not have a membership.