Save. Garcinia kola is a tropical flowering plant found in western and central Africa and it produces brown, nut-like seeds. It has been used in African culture for centuries for medicinal purposes. Garcinia kola contains dimeric flavonoid, which is believed to have many healing benefits. Immunity. Garcinia kola is known for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. It is used to prevent infections and viruses, especially of the immune system.
Garcinia kola-MHNT. Garcinia kola (bitter kola, a name sometimes also used for G. afzelii) is a species of flowering plant in the Clusiaceae or Guttiferae family. It is found in Benin, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Gabon, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal and Sierra Leone. Garcinia kola or bitter kola is a tree that grows in the rain forests of west Africa.
Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. Garcinia kola or bitter kola is a tree that grows in the rain forests of west Africa. The fruit, seeds, nuts and bark of the plant have been used for centuries in folk medicine to treat ailments from coughs to fever. Garcinia kola or bitter kola is a tree that grows in the rain forests of west Africa
Overview. Garcinia kola or bitter kola is a tree that grows in the rain forests of west Africa. The fruit, seeds, nuts and bark of the plant have been used for centuries in folk medicine to treat ailments from coughs to fever. The side effects reported from the garcinia kola use in this study were weight loss, increase in sex drive and extended sleep. If you take garcinia kola and experience diarrhea, hives, irregular heartbeat or other signs of allergic reaction, discontinue use immediately and seek medical attention.
http://healthweightlosstutors.blogspot.com/2012/05/weight-loss-workout.html. Bitter Kola also known as Garcinia kola is a tropical flowering plant found in western and central Africa and it produces brown, nut-like seeds. It has been used in African culture for centuries for both traditional and medicinal purposes. irembright: You Have the read out the health work strategy onhttp://healthweightlosstutors.blogspot.com/2012/05/weight-loss-workout.html
In conclusion, bitter kola (garcinia kola) have for centuries been used in African culture for both traditional and medicinal purposes. Garcinia kola contains saponin, kolaviron (a natural biflavonoid), dimeric flavonoid, and lipase inhibitor all of which is believed to have many healing properties. Garcinia kola is a potential osteoarthritis disease activity modifier with good mid term outcome; Olayinka O Adegbehingbe, Saburi A Adesanya, Thomas O Idowu, Oluwakemi C Okimi, Oyesiku A Oyelami and Ezekiel O Iwalewa discovered in their study on the Clinical effects of Garcinia kola in knee osteoarthritis.