Jax is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#65298 out of 150436, Top 43%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Jax for boys. Jax was first listed in 2005 and reached its peak position of #209 in the U.S. in 2014. 
The name Ajax is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Ajax is: A Greek at Troy. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. 
Popularity of the Name Jax. Jax first appeared on the male naming charts in 2005 – clearly a brand new 21st century coinage. It follows the popularity of Jaxson and Jaxon (which followed the popularity of Jackson). Jackson, in turn, followed the popularity of Jack combined with the trend that uses surnames as forenames. Etymology & Historical Origin-Jax. Jax is a newly invented name distinct to the United States. The name was created in reaction to the popularity of such names as Jack and Jackson. There is no etymological origin and therefore no meaning.
Jax Name Meaning. The meaning of Jax is “Jack's son”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. 
Meaning of Jax. English name. In English, the name Jax means-God has been gracious; has shown favor. Based on John or Jacques.. Other origins for the name Jax include-English, American, Spanish.The name Jax is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-God has been gracious; has shown favor. Based on John or Jacques
English Meaning: The name Jax is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jax is: God has been gracious; has shown favor. Based on John or Jacques. Spanish Meaning: The name Jax is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Jax is: Greek name Hyacinth 'alas. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
Compare To: See the name popularity of Jax since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. View Jax popularity trends, and how the popularity of Jax has changed over time. 
Meaning of Jax. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Jax means-Masculine form of the Greek name Hyacinth alas... Other origins for the name Jax include-Spanish, American, English.The name Jax is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-Masculine form of the Greek name Hyacinth alas.. Origin-Spanish
Big Baby Eyeballs. The eyeballs of a baby normally look larger as compared to the size of the head of the baby and or its complete size. This is because their eye balls as compared to human eye balls are just about 75%. This means only 25% eye balls grow at a later stage. 