The arrival of autumn is a great reason to talk about chemistry: When tree leaves change from green to reds, oranges, yellows, and browns, we’re seeing the tree’s green chlorophyll fade away, revealing hidden autumnal pigments. 
The Web's Best Sites. Leaves of deciduous trees change color during autumn and then drop off. Contunico © ZDF Enterprises GmbH, Mainz. In the autumn, leaves turn from green to brilliant shades of scarlet, gold, orange, and purple. Then they finally fall to the ground. It is not a season of dying: the tree or shrub is preparing for winter
We spend a lot of time outdoors. We especially enjoy the crisp air and vibrant colors of autumn. For our school science project, we decided to explore the many different leaf colors we notice in the fall and find out what makes these leaves change from green to brilliant orange, yellow and red.
Before we learn why leaves change color in autumn, let's talk about what leaves do during the rest of the year. Each leaf on a tree is like a tiny solar panel, gathering sunlight the tree uses to make food. 
The maple leaf scratch and reveal is a fun activity to help cement the idea that the green pigment (chlorophyll) in leaves masks all the other colors. Materials needed: Maple leaf template (linked here – Maple Leaf Template), a coin for rubbing, and orange/yellow/red/green crayons. 1 The green pigment hides the other colors in the leaf. 2  Leaves get less light each day in the fall and stop making food to prepare for the winter. 3  The chlorophyll (green color) fades and other colors (mainly red/yellow/orange/tan) in the leaves begin to show.
1 Leaves need sunlight, air, water, and chlorophyll to make food (sugar) for the tree. 2  Chlorophyll is the green dominant pigment in leaves during the spring/summer. 3  The green pigment hides the other colors in the leaf. 4  Leaves get less light each day in the fall and stop making food to prepare for the winter. 1 The green pigment hides the other colors in the leaf. 2  Leaves get less light each day in the fall and stop making food to prepare for the winter. 3  The chlorophyll (green color) fades and other colors (mainly red/yellow/orange/tan) in the leaves begin to show.
The bright reds and purples we see in leaves are made mostly in the fall. In some trees, like maples, glucose is trapped in the leaves after photosynthesis stops. Sunlight and the cool nights of autumn cause the leaves turn this glucose into a red color. The brown color of trees like oaks is made from wastes left in the leaves. It is the combination of all these things that make the beautiful fall foliage colors we enjoy each year. Plants are busy growing all summer long. Plants make their food using sunlight and something called chlorophyll. Chlorophyll gives leaves their green color. Winter days are short and dry. Many plants stop making food in the fall. The chlorophyll goes away.
1 Chlorophyll is the green dominant pigment in leaves during the spring/summer. 2  The green pigment hides the other colors in the leaf. 3  Leaves get less light each day in the fall and stop making food to prepare for the winter. 1 The green pigment hides the other colors in the leaf. 2  Leaves get less light each day in the fall and stop making food to prepare for the winter. 3  The chlorophyll (green color) fades and other colors (mainly red/yellow/orange/tan) in the leaves begin to show.