Eyes tend to get puffy due to water retention, which is caused by a high concentration of salt in the area around the eyes. If you ate a very salty dinner or cried before bed you might notice increased puffiness in the morning. Drinking plenty of water flushes the area and causes the swelling to go down. 4. Treat your allergies. Puffy eyes are often caused by allergies, which inflame the face and cause water to collect there. You might see a big difference if you treat your seasonal allergies with a good allergy medication. 1  Try an over-the-counter medication or get a prescription from your doctor.
Use cucumber slices. Cucumber slices have long been used to reduce puffiness and refresh the appearance of skin around the eyes, providing a fast pick-me-up for tired and puffy eyes. Place a slice over each eye, extending over the darkened area. Do this daily, coupled with lying down for 10-15 minutes. Keep your eyes closed.
Puffy or swollen eyes can be caused by fluid retention, stress, allergies, hormone changes, and other factors. Crying is often accompanied by swollen eyes because the tiny glands in the eyelids that produce tears become inflamed from overactivity. Other times we get puffy eyes after sleeping. The skin around the eyes is very thin and is very sensitive. Usually puffy eyes will resolve on their own, or after basic home treatments. But puffy eyes are also symptoms of other eye conditions that may require examination by an eye-care professional.
In fact, if you have puffy eyes because you retain fluid, the simplest way to reduce puffiness is by drinking more water. There are other tips you can follow to help relieve puffy eyes depending on the cause. Here are a few: 1  Try applying some hemorrhoid cream under the thin skin of the eye. 1 This will help reduce puffiness and, like above, help brighten dark circles under your eyes. 2  Drink water until you feel like a water fountain. 3  When you are retaining fluid, you simply can't drink enough water to reduce puffiness.
Puffiness under the eyes is a common symptom of allergies, lack of sleep, stress, and poor diet. Eyes will become puffy when the skin around the eyes becomes irritated and itchy. People who consume large amounts of alcohol and sodium before bed may wake up with puffy eyes due to water retention. The skin around the eyes is very thin and is very sensitive. Usually puffy eyes will resolve on their own, or after basic home treatments. But puffy eyes are also symptoms of other eye conditions that may require examination by an eye-care professional.
Definition. Bags under eyes — mild swelling or puffiness under the eyes — are common as you age. With aging, the tissues around your eyes, including some of the muscles supporting your eyelids, weaken. Normal fat that helps support the eyes can then move into the lower eyelids, causing the lids to appear puffy
Get enough sleep. If you have puffy eyes all day, it could be that you're simply not getting enough sleep, or the quality of the sleep you are getting is poor. Puffiness under the eyes is a common symptom of sleep deprivation. Aim to get 7-8 hours of sleep every night. 4. Treat your allergies. Puffy eyes are often caused by allergies, which inflame the face and cause water to collect there. You might see a big difference if you treat your seasonal allergies with a good allergy medication. 1  Try an over-the-counter medication or get a prescription from your doctor.
Puffy, swollen eyelids and dark circles under the eyes can occur when you have an eye infection such as pink eye. These swollen eyes are caused by inflammation associated with the eye infection, which directly affects the neighboring eyelids. Also, dry eyes can cause general puffiness and swelling. Please Share! Puffy eyes and dark circles under the eyes occur for many reasons, including inherited facial features, allergies, stress, eye fatigue and individual skin characteristics such as texture.