In this shake, soy milk and tofu are combined with kale, raw spinach, avocado and frozen peas. This protein drink is packed full of antioxidants, lutein (protects eye health), calcium, folic acid, iron, and vitamins A, C, E, and K. The avocado’s “good fat” (monounsaturated fat) adds to the creamy texture.
Nutritional highlights. Tofu is a good source of protein and contains all eight essential amino acids. It is also an excellent source of iron and calcium and the minerals manganese, selenium and phosphorous. In addition, tofu is a good source of magnesium, copper, zinc and vitamin B1.
Tofu is an excellent source of vegetarian protein. Calories in tofu: One half-cup serving of raw firm tofu contains 94 calories. By comparison, 4 oz ground beef contains 331 calories, 1/2 cup of 2% milk has 60 calories and 4 oz of cheese packs 320 calories.Nutritional information is from CalorieCount.
For example, 3 ounces of firm, uncooked tofu -- which is higher in protein than softer varieties -- contains 7 grams of protein. In comparison, 3 ounces of raw Atlantic cod contains 15.1 grams, and 3 ounces of raw sockeye salmon contains 18.1
Made from dried soybeans, tofu is the only plant-based protein source (it delivers 11 grams per 100-calorie serving) that has all of the nine essential amino acids—those are the ones your body can’t produce on its own, says Rachel Begun, MS, RD, a dietician in Rye Brooke, NY.
Protein versus calories in tofu: Tofu is low in calories for the vegetarian protein it packs in. Here's how it compares to a few other foods. For each 100 calorie serving, tofu contains 11 grams of protein. By comparison, 100 calories of ground beef provides 8.9 grams of protein, and a 100 calorie serving of cheese contains 6.2 grams.
The only difference between tofu and meat protein is that you have to eat more tofu to meet the recommended dietary protein levels. In fact, every 100 g of tofu yields approximately 17.19 g of protein. To get the protein benefit of 150 g of lean meat, you should consume 290 g of tofu.
Tofu is a good source of protein for vegetarians. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that you eat 5.5 ounces of protein foods per day. The Guidelines also suggest that you decrease your red meat intake and regularly use a variety of plant and animal protein foods to meet your needs.