I think average processing time for sinp skilled worker varies from 15 to 18 months for nomination's only and add 8 to 10 extra months for CIC. Quote from: Poli on January 17, 2013, 03:46:24 pm. Fazan, i tried to answer your question thru here but i couldn't so i post my reply here....hope you see it! In other provinces it can take as little as a month. Quote from: RebeccaCQ on October 03, 2012, 12:24:55 pm. I was under the impression that the application would be processed within a few weeks (eg 6-12 weeks).
The SINP is an immigration program under which the Province of Saskatchewan selects individuals from other countries and nominates them to the federal government for landed immigrant status. SINP eligibility criteria are designed to meet the specific needs of the Saskatchewan labour market and economy. There are no financial requirements under the SINP Skilled Worker/Professional category but federal guidelines recommend that immigrants arrive with a minimum of $10,000 plus $2,000 for each dependent, or some other source of financial support in Canada.
The processing time for the different categories under the Saskatchewan Immigrant Nominee Program changes quarterly. Below is the average processing time for the different categories (subject to change). This covers the time starting when the ‘complete’ application was received. • The number of applications received – the more the applicants, the longer the processing time. • The length of time an applicant takes to respond in cases when SINP requests for more information or additional documentation.
Re: SINP processing time. « Reply #9 on: December 06, 2012, 06:02:22 am ». Just to update..we submitted the SINP application online & within about 8 days received a request for further documentation/clarification. We submitted these within the next week, then waited less than a week to receive the Visa approval. In other provinces it can take as little as a month. Quote from: RebeccaCQ on October 03, 2012, 12:24:55 pm. I was under the impression that the application would be processed within a few weeks (eg 6-12 weeks).
There are so many questions regarding the processing time of any application for immigration to the different programs in Canada. What applicants must know is that the time differs from one program to another, and this is often determined by the completeness (or non-completeness) of the requirements submitted. • The number of applications received – the more the applicants, the longer the processing time. • The length of time an applicant takes to respond in cases when SINP requests for more information or additional documentation.
The average hourly wage for a construction worker in Saskatchewan in March 2013 was $25.78 compared to $26.54 for Canada and $26.06 in the United States. Saskatchewan has the lowest unemployment rate in the country. The province is trying to recruit workers from other provinces as well as further afield. SINP applicants may choose to engage the services of an immigration consultant or not, however, no immigration consultant has or will be allocated an immigrant quota from the Province of Saskatchewan. Saskatchewan Immigrant Nominee Program (SINP) discussed in various news outlets.
Note: The processing time indicated above is based on the time it took to process 80% of the applications under each category in the past. Future processing time may change depending on the factors mentioned. • The number of applications received – the more the applicants, the longer the processing time. • The length of time an applicant takes to respond in cases when SINP requests for more information or additional documentation.
Processing times vary, however, successful SINP applications typically receive visas considerably quicker than individuals applying through federal immigration classes. In the first two years of operating the SINP, the average time from making the SINP application to receiving a visa was about eight months. There are no financial requirements under the SINP Skilled Worker/Professional category but federal guidelines recommend that immigrants arrive with a minimum of $10,000 plus $2,000 for each dependent, or some other source of financial support in Canada.
• Prioritization. Skilled workers are prioritized, so their processing time is shorter. Applicants with a permanent and full-time job offer in a high-skilled occupation (NOC A, B, and 0) are also given priority. • The number of applications received – the more the applicants, the longer the processing time. • The length of time an applicant takes to respond in cases when SINP requests for more information or additional documentation.
Re: SINP processing time. « Reply #13 on: January 17, 2013, 03:46:24 pm ». Fazan, i tried to answer your question thru here but i couldn't so i post my reply here....hope you see it! I applied under SINP Skilled worker in Nov 2011, one year after (Nov 2012) additional docs were required so my consultant sent them. In other provinces it can take as little as a month. Quote from: RebeccaCQ on October 03, 2012, 12:24:55 pm. I was under the impression that the application would be processed within a few weeks (eg 6-12 weeks).