The informal sector can be described as a grey market in labour. Other concepts which can be characterized as informal sector can include the black market (shadow economy, underground economy), the agorism, and System D. Associated idioms include  under the table , off the books and working for cash. However, this understanding is too inclusive and vague, and certain activities that could be included by that definition are not considered part of the informal economy. As the International Labor Organization defined the informal sector in 2002, the informal sector does not include the crimin
While some people choose to be in the informal sector, many fall in the category because of unemployment. The informal sector plays a very important role in every country, as it gives opportunities to people who are not employed to earn money through their various skills and businesses. With the country depending more on agriculture, most of the people in the informal sector are in farming, growing different crops. Others are also in crafts which includes woodwork, pottery, weaving, sewing and furniture making.
The informal sector refers to those workers who are self employed, or who work for those who are self employed. People who earn a living through self employment in most cases are not on payrolls, and thus are not taxed. Many informal workers do their businesses in unprotected and unsecured places. In Malawi the informal sector can include vendors, such as people selling various merchandise such as vegetables. The workers in this sector also include hawkers, marketers, vendors, artisans, small veranda (khondes) businesses and cross border traders.
Approaches to measuring the informal sector and examples of empirical work where indirect measures were used to estimate the size of the unofficial economy and informal sector can be found in the section Measuring the Size of the Informal Sector. It helps alleviate poverty, but in many cases informal sector jobs are low-paid and the job security is poor. The size of the informal labor market varies from the estimated 4-6% in the high-income countries to over 50% in the low-income countries.
The informal sector, informal economy, or grey economy is the part of an economy that is neither taxed, nor monitored by any form of government. However, this understanding is too inclusive and vague, and certain activities that could be included by that definition are not considered part of the informal economy. As the International Labor Organization defined the informal sector in 2002, the informal sector does not include the crimin
The informal sector is big in Namibia and has assisted the government in bridging the gap in terms of unemployment. According to Namibia’s Country report, the majority of the informal sector is in trade, taking over 50 percent, followed by manufacturing at 26 percent and 13 percent in repair services. With the country depending more on agriculture, most of the people in the informal sector are in farming, growing different crops. Others are also in crafts which includes woodwork, pottery, weaving, sewing and furniture making.
LEDCs are different to this. Although they have large numbers of people who are employed in the formal sector who work fixed hours and pay their taxes to the government, there are also an increasing number of people who are employed in the informal sector. The informal sector in LEDCs is made up of jobs that people have found for themselves. 
Concept of Informal Sector. The informal sector covers a wide range of labor market activities that combine two groups of different nature. On the one hand, the informal sector is formed by the coping behavior of individuals and families in economic environment where earning opportunities are scarce. On the other hand, the informal sector is a product of rational behavior of entrepreneurs that desire to escape state regulations. It helps alleviate poverty, but in many cases informal sector jobs are low-paid and the job security is poor. The size of the informal labor market varies from the estimated 4-6% in the high-income countries to over 50% in the low-income countries.
No national survey has evaluated the extensiveness of the informal economy and its characteristics. As a consequence, it is not known how many businesses currently conduct some or all of their trade in the informal economy, the sectors affected and the types of business and people prone to using informal work. Such research is desperately needed. 