– We do not use horse meat in America for glue, dog food, or other items such as. We do however use our meat as food for large cats in zoos (A large cat can eat 6-8 lbs of horse meat each day) and we ship our meat to other countries where regulations on the food supply aren’t nearly as strict. Cheaper dog foods contain by-products and animal digest (see my post on dog food ingredients). The only way to be absolutely sure horse meat is not used in your dog’s food is to read the label. Look for dog foods with ingredients like lamb, duck and chicken. The first three ingredients should be specific proteins
The North Dakota plant would slaughter horses that are no longer used for recreation, farming or racing, said The Forum. Slaughtered horses are used for meat, gelatin, glue, pet food and leather products, according to the article. I could not find any pet food brands that admittedly use horse meat. Instead, general words such as “animal” by-product and “animal” digest are used. This could be any animal. Cheaper dog foods contain by-products and animal digest (see my post on dog food ingredients). The only way to be absolutely sure horse meat is not used in your dog’s food is to read the label. Look for dog foods with ingredients like lamb, duck and chicken. The first three ingredients should be specific proteins
Horse meat (or horse beef) is the culinary name for meat cut from a horse. It is a major meat in only a few countries, notably in Tonga and Central Asia, but it forms a significant part of the culinary traditions of many others, from Europe to South America to Asia. Zuurvlees, a southern Dutch stew, is made with horse meat as main ingredient. There are also beef-based variants. Horse meat is also used in sausages (paardenworst and frikandel), fried fast food snacks and ready-to-eat soups.
Dog food, particularly in the USA is not made from horse meat as American horses are not safe for human or animal consumption due to toxic substances used to keep horses healt … hy. But horses are herbivores. They eat grass, alfalfa, and oats. Dog food has a high cereal content, so a horse could probably eat a little bit of it with … out ill effect. But a steady diet of dog food, designed for carnivores, would likely contribute to health problems over a long period of time.
Horse meat was banned in pet food in the USA in the 1970's. In other parts of the world horse meat may still be used but it is not common as horse meat is considered a delicacy. 3 people found this useful. But horses are herbivores. They eat grass, alfalfa, and oats. Dog food has a high cereal content, so a horse could probably eat a little bit of it with … out ill effect. But a steady diet of dog food, designed for carnivores, would likely contribute to health problems over a long period of time.
At the beginning of the 20th century, pre-packaged pet foods were also available in the U.S. Initially they consisted primarily of dry cereals, but after World War I, dog food made of canned horse meat was available. The 1930s ushered in canned cat food and a dry, meatmeal type of dog food. 
i know that some dog food is make out of horse meat and i was wondering if ours is.one brand we use is called webbox, its in a chub and says on the label what the meat is mostly made of like chicken, rabbit, beef etc and the other one just says breeders choice on the label and dosnt say what meat is in it either... Avoid any of these ingredients, and your dog's food won't ever have any horse in it. Horse meat is never listed as such in the ingredients panel. The ingredients will be listed on the label somewhere, or online at least. They'll give you all the information you need.
Do not go where the path may lead. Go instead where there is no path and leave a trail. R. W Emerson. Dog food, particularly in the USA is not made from horse meat as American horses are not safe for human or animal consumption due to toxic substances used to keep horses healthy. Horse meat was banned in pet food in the USA in the 1970's. In other parts of the world horse meat may still be used but it is not common as horse meat is considered a delicacy. 