Whether steamed or boiled, mud crabs should be placed in a cooking pot once the water is boiling. This will usually stop the water boiling for a few minutes. Once the water is brought back to boiling point, mud crabs should be cooked for ten to twelve minutes then allowed to cool before being eaten. 
1 01. 2  Place rock salt, lemons and 4 litres of water in a large saucepan and bring to a rolling boil. 3  Add crabs and return to the boil. 4  Cook for 6 minutes (adjust cooking time according to weight, as explained above). 5  02. 6  Place crabs in a bowl of iced water to chill. 1 Add crabs and return to the boil. 2  Cook for 6 minutes (adjust cooking time according to weight, as explained above). 3  02. 4  Place crabs in a bowl of iced water to chill. 5  03. 6  Remove triangular flap underneath crab and lift top shell away from body – most of the internal organs will come away, too.
Boiled Whole Mud Crab. 1  Bring a large pot of water to the boil, add a teaspoon of sea-salt and place the whole mud crab in and boil for 10-12 minutes. 2  Remove and place in a sink of cold water to cool. 3  Then follow the cleaning a mud crab instructions above. 
1 In a large pot or steamer pour 1 cup of vinegar, 2 cups of beer or water and 2 tablespoons of salt, so that you have 3 - 4 inches of liquid. 2  Bring the liquid to a rapid boil. 3  As the liquid is heating up, place the live crabs into the freezer or into a large bowl of ice water for about 3 minutes. Steaming live crab. 1  In a large pot or steamer pour 1 cup of vinegar, 2 cups of beer or water and 2 tablespoons of salt, so that you have 3 - 4 inches of liquid. 2  Bring the liquid to a rapid boil.
1 Place rock salt, lemons and 4 litres of water in a large saucepan and bring to a rolling boil. 2  Add crabs and return to the boil. 3  Cook for 6 minutes (adjust cooking time according to weight, as explained above). 4  02. 5  Place crabs in a bowl of iced water to chill. 1 Add crabs and return to the boil. 2  Cook for 6 minutes (adjust cooking time according to weight, as explained above). 3  02. 4  Place crabs in a bowl of iced water to chill. 5  03. 6  Remove triangular flap underneath crab and lift top shell away from body – most of the internal organs will come away, too.
STEP 5: Remove crabs from boiling water and place in a big bowl of iced water. to cool them down. STEP 6: Enjoy! HOW TO BOIL LIVE GREEN MUD CRABS. (Based on 1 Green/Raw Mud Crab). STEP 1: Place the Mud Crab in the freezer for approximately 15-18 mins. before cooking. STEP 5: When they’re done, remove them from the boiling water and place in a large. bowl of iced water and allow to cool for approximately 10mins. STEP 6: Peel and eat! HOW TO BOIL LIVE BLUE SWIMMER CRABS. STEP 1: Drown lobsters in large bucket of fresh water, for approximately 20-30 mins. until the body is motionless.
Re: How do I cook mud crabs properly? 7 or 8 min is no were near enough for mud crab. sand crabs are good after 7 to 8 min but mud crabs definatley need 15min as there shells are a lot thicker. then dropped into an ice slurry to stop the cooking process.
How to Cook Mud Crabs. Wash the mud crabs thoroughly. Place live green mud crabs into ICE SLURRY for 35 Minutes in a container or bin, or in the freezer for 35 minutes. They go to sleep and die. Bring pot with a good handful of salt to the boil. Place Mud crabs in pot. Bring to BOIL again and then cook for 22 minutes. In another container or bin add another 3 handfuls of salt to the ice slurry. Once cooked, place mud crabs into this and when cool, clean them in the slurry water. 
Re: Cooking mud crabs. I use sea water and put a hand full of rock salt in. I'm not sure how big my crab cooker is though approximately 10l I guess. I cook them for 12 mins after they come back to the boil. Re: Cooking mud crabs. Amokk, I think you are talking about boiling your crabs. If I were to just plain boil my crabs I would probably use about 1/2 cup of salt and 1/2 cup of sugar in say 5-8 liters of water.