Mastocytosis is a disorder that can occur in both children and adults. It is caused by the presence of too many mast cells in your body. You can find mast cells in skin, lymph nodes, internal organs (such as the liver and spleen) and the linings of the lung, stomach, and intestine. Mast cells play an important role in helping your immune system defend these tissues from disease. Systemic mastocytosis is caused by mast cells accumulating in the tissues and can affect organs such as the liver, spleen, bone marrow, and small intestine. Researchers first described urticaria pigmentosa in 1869. Systemic mastocytosis was first reported in the scientific literature in 1949.
1 The most common cutaneous mastocytosis is urticaria pigmentosa (UP), more common in children, although also seen in adults. 2  Telangiectasia macularis eruptiva perstans (TMEP) is a much rarer form of cutaneous mastocytosis that affects adults. 3  UP and TMEP can evolve into indolent systemic mastocytosis. Mastocytosis can occur in a variety of forms: 1  Most cases are cutaneous (confined to the skin only), and there are several forms. 2  Systemic mastocytosis involves the bone marrow in some cases and in some cases other internal organs, usually in addition to involving the skin.
The presence of too many mast cells, or mastocytosis, can occur in two forms—cutaneous and systemic. The most common cutaneous (skin) form is also called urticaria pigmentosa, which occurs when mast cells infiltrate the skin. Systemic mastocytosis is caused by mast cells accumulating in the tissues and can affect organs such as the liver, spleen, bone marrow, and small intestine. Researchers first described urticaria pigmentosa in 1869. Systemic mastocytosis was first reported in the scientific literature in 1949.
releasing chemical “alarms” such as histamine and cytokines. The presence of too many mast cells, or mastocytosis, can occur in two forms—cutaneous and sys­. temic. The most common cutaneous (skin) form is also called urticaria pigmentosa, which occurs. when mast cells infiltrate the skin. Systemic mastocytosis is caused by mast cells accumulating in the. tissues and can affect organs such as the liver, spleen, bone marrow, and small intestine. (such as the liver and spleen), and the linings of the lung, stomach, and intestine
Overview. Mastocytosis is a condition that occurs when mast cells accumulate in skin and/or internal organs such as the liver, spleen, bone marrow, and small intestines. The signs and symptoms vary based on which part(s) of the body are affected. There are two main forms of mastocytosis: cutaneous and systemic. 
Mastocytosis (urticaria pigmentosa) is a mostly harmless condition where your child has more than the normal number of mast cells in the body. Mast cells are found in everyone in the skin, bowels, gut (stomach), lungs and air passages. Mast cells do not usually cause problems. 
Overview Mastocytosis is a disorder that can occur in both children and adults. It is caused by the presence of too many mast cells in your body. You can find mast cells in skin, lymph nodes, internal organs (such as the liver and spleen), and the linings of the lung, stomach, and intestine. The presence of too many mast cells, or mastocytosis, can occur in two forms—cutaneous and sys­. temic. The most common cutaneous (skin) form is also called urticaria pigmentosa, which occurs. when mast cells infiltrate the skin. Systemic mastocytosis is caused by mast cells accumulating in the. tissues and can affect organs such as the liver, spleen, bone marrow, and small intestine.
What is mastocytosis. Mastocytosis is a group of rare disorders caused by the presence of too many mast cells, or (mastocytes), which are part of the immune system. The increased number of mast cells in the tissues in mastocytosis is due to acquired genetic mutations in a protein called c-kit. Since this disease is an abnormal increased growth of genetically abnormal blood cells, mastocytosis is classified as a myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN).
Mastocytosis is a disorder that can occur in both children and adults. It is caused by the presence of too many mast cells in your body. You can find mast cells in skin, lymph nodes, internal organs (such as the liver and spleen) and the linings of the lung, stomach, and intestine. Mast cells play an important role in helping your immune system defend these tissues from disease. Systemic mastocytosis is caused by mast cells accumulating in the tissues and can affect organs such as the liver, spleen, bone marrow, and small intestine. Researchers first described urticaria pigmentosa in 1869. Systemic mastocytosis was first reported in the scientific literature in 1949.
Systemic mastocytosis (mas-to-sy-TOE-sis) is a rare disorder caused by a mutation that results in an excessive number of mast cells in your body. Mast cells normally help protect you from disease and aid in wound healing. 