4) Rich in Protein, Iron & Calcium-For a fruit, mulberries are an unusually high source of protein. They contain 4 grams of protein per serving, which makes them a great post-workout snack. Dried mulberries also contain a whopping 30% of the daily value for iron, and 10% of the daily value for calcium. Mulberries are a compound fruit, like raspberries and blackberries, and have a sweet, mild flavor. For a fruit, dried mulberries have unusually high levels of iron and protein, and are a good source of many nutrients.
Nutritional Value of Mulberries. Mulberries are acutally a good source of raw food protein, a rarity in the fruit kingdom. They are also a good source of magnesium, potassium, riboflavin, iron, calcium, vitamin C, and fiber. One of the mulberry's greatest health assets is it's high concentration of resveratrol, an antioxidant currently being studied for its effects on heart health. There are several colors of mulberries from a deep dark red, to white. The white variety are growing in popularity as a superfood sold in health food stores. The leaves of the white mulberry tree are used as food for silk worms.
Mulberries also benefit your health by increasing your iron intake. A cup of mulberries offers 2.6 milligrams of iron, which is 32 percent of the daily iron intake recommended for men and 14 percent of the daily intake recommended for women. Iron helps ensure that your tissues can access the oxygen they need. 
Refreshingly succulent, tart and sweet mulberries are indeed rich in numerous health benefiting flavonoid phyto-nutrients. Botanically, they are the berries obtained from the silkworm tree belonging to the Moraceae family, within the genus: Morus. Scientific name: Morus nigra. L. In Spanish, they are known as moras. Health benefits of mulberries. Delicious, fleshy, succulent mulberries are less in calories (just 43 calories per 100 g). They compose of health promoting phyto-nutrient compounds like polyphenol pigment antioxidants, minerals, and vitamins that are essential for optimum health.
Mulberries are an excellent source of iron, which is a rare feature among berries, contain 1.85 mg/100 g of fruits (about 23% of RDI). Iron, being a component of hemoglobin inside the red blood cells, determines the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood. Health benefits of mulberries. Delicious, fleshy, succulent mulberries are less in calories (just 43 calories per 100 g). They compose of health promoting phyto-nutrient compounds like polyphenol pigment antioxidants, minerals, and vitamins that are essential for optimum health.
Mulberries are delicious and nutritious, people all over the world enjoy it. Mulberries are a product of the Morus alba tree. Its leaves, which also contain nutrients and are even used as food for silkworms, are thin, glossy and light green; the fruit, like grapes, is red or white and grows in bunches called “drupes.”. 4. Healthy Food! Dried mulberries are a great source of protein, vitamin C and K, fiber, and iron. Best of all, they’re available in health food stores everywhere! Enjoy them as a great snack all by themselves or add them to your favorite trail mix.
These super berries can even help you to lose weight by blocking sugar. Mulberries are a compound fruit, like raspberries and blackberries, and have a sweet, mild flavor. For a fruit, dried mulberries have unusually high levels of iron and protein, and are a good source of many nutrients.
Anemia Treatment. Because they are quite high in iron, mulberries are a great food to use in the treatment of anemia. Cold and Flu Treatment. In Turkey, mulberry molasses is used as a treatment for colds and flu. Their effectiveness in this way may be due to their high vitamin C content. Mulberries are a good source of resveratrol, a potent phytonutrient also found in grapes that researchers believe can prevent cancer and aid in the fight of existing cancers.
23 Amazing Benefits Of Mulberries For Skin, Hair And Health. Mulberries are delicious and nutritious berries that are enjoyed by people all over the world. Mulberries are produced from Morus Alba Tree. It is a naturally sweet fruit that looks quite similar to blackberry and tastes like grapefruit. Mulberry grows on trees and is cultivated in warm regions of Asia, Africa and America. They are delicious, if you like blueberries or grapes then you’ll like mulberries. I tried juicing them and it tastes good too, but requires several cups of berries just for one glass of juice. Thanks for the informative post :) Just a quick note: mulberries aren’t all from the Morus alba tree.