1 A flock of flamingos is called a stand or a flamboyance. 2  Flamingos have a wild lifespan of 20-30 years, but in captivity have been recorded as living up to 50 years or longer. 3  The Andean flamingo is the most threatened of all flamingo species, and estimates show there to be only 30,000 of the birds left in the wild. These fun flamingo facts and trivia may surprise you! 1  There are only six species of flamingos, but they are found around the world from the Caribbean and South America to Africa, the Middle East and Europe.
Answer: Flamingos are pink or orange or white depending on what they eat. Flamingos eat algae and crustaceans that contain pigments called carotenoids. For the most part, these pigments are found in the brine shrimp and blue-green algae that the birds eat.
1 Flamingos have a wild lifespan of 20-30 years, but in captivity have been recorded as living up to 50 years or longer. 2  The Andean flamingo is the most threatened of all flamingo species, and estimates show there to be only 30,000 of the birds left in the wild. These fun flamingo facts and trivia may surprise you! 1  There are only six species of flamingos, but they are found around the world from the Caribbean and South America to Africa, the Middle East and Europe.
It is called a flamingo because it comes from a Latin word called Phoenicopterus ruper, that means pink colored organism. 1 Flamingos are social birds, and tens of thou…. 2  Baby Necessities and Supplies When you are planning your first child, there are a lot of things to do and even more items to purchase. 3  To prepare for those first few months, you can acquire most of the it….
In captivity, Flamingos are fed food that is high in these pigments, otherwise their feathers would be a very pale pink. Pink or Greater Flamingos have a very large distribution area: they are found from West Africa through the Mediterranean, Europe, South West and South Asia, and in sub-Saharan Africa. 
The pink or reddish color of flamingos comes from carotenoids in their diet of animal and plant plankton. These carotenoids are broken down into pigments by liver enzymes. The source of this varies by species, and affects the saturation of color. Flamingos filter-feed on brine shrimp and blue-green algae. Their beaks are specially adapted to separate mud and silt from the food they eat, and are uniquely used upside-down. The filtering of food items is assisted by hairy structures called lamellae which line the mandibles, and the large rough-surfaced tongue.
Animals also have been known to steal flamingo eggs before they hatch. Cheetahs, lions, hyenas, leopards and jaguars hunt the birds that are native to Africa. What is a baby Flamingo known as: A baby flamingo, as it is part of the bird family, is known as a chick. A chick is the most common name for babies of all species of birds. Female Flamingos are called: A female flamingo is referred to simply as a female flamingo. 
WASHINGTON -- Hi there fluffy little guy. Or gal. The National Zoo isn't sure yet if their new baby flamingo -- baby flamingo! -- is a boy or a girl. What we can be sure of is that the downy little bird is awfully cute. And long-legged. The baby hatched on July 29. 
Adult bird is 3.3 - 4.6 feet tall and weigh between 3.3 - 9 pounds. Flamingos wingspan ranges from 3.3 - 5 feet. Color of their feather is result of their diet: pigments in their food (called carotenoids) are responsible for red and pink colors of their feathers. They eat shrimps, algae, crustaceans…. When they eat, their head is positioned upside-down. 
What is the baby flamingo called? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. Speaking of the Playboy Mansion, what is a typical day at the mansion like? How much does a baby flamingo weigh? What do baby flamingos eat? How many babies can a flamingo have? What are flamingo babies called? What ... 1 Flamingos are social birds, and tens of thou…. 2  Baby Necessities and Supplies When you are planning your first child, there are a lot of things to do and even more items to purchase. 3  To prepare for those first few months, you can acquire most of the it….