A muscle cramp is a sudden, involuntary contraction of one or more muscles. A swift contraction is a muscle spasm; a cramp occurs if the muscle continues to contract. Muscle cramps cause the muscle to harden in a way that you can often both see and feel. The treatment for a cramped muscle depends both on its location, and the duration of the cramp. Get more electrolytes in your diet. Muscle cramps can be caused by a lack of electrolytes, which include the minerals potassium, magnesium and sodium. If you're experiencing muscle cramps, eat a potassium-rich banana or two.
Muscle cramps are involuntary contractions (tightening) of muscles. A common type of muscle cramp happens in the calf muscle of the leg and is called by some a charley horse. Muscle cramps are usually caused by over exercising, dehydration, lack of key nutrients, and/or nerve irritation. Injuring a muscle or an irritation to a nerve may also cause muscle cramps. A muscle cramp in the neck can contribute to other pains in the back, shoulders, and arms. Nerve irritation can be caused by stress, injury, or arthritis from aging.
A muscle spasm is a painful, involuntary movement or contraction of a muscle. A muscle spasm is also known as a muscle cramp. Muscle spasms and cramps are not the same as muscle twitching, which refers to very fine involuntary movements (fasciculations) of a small segment of muscle. Skeletal muscles are muscles attached to bones that you control to move your body. Muscle spasms and cramps can also be caused by neuromuscular disorders, such as multiple sclerosis or a spinal cord injury. Movement disorders called dystonias also lead to forceful contractions. Dystonias can also be a complication of stroke. Certain medications can cause involuntary muscle contractions as well.
Calf spasm: A sudden involuntary contraction of the muscles of the calf or calves. See detailed information below for a list of 13 causes of Calf spasm, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Calf spasm: Introduction. Calf spasm: A sudden involuntary contraction of the muscles of the calf or calves. See detailed information below for a list of 13 causes of Calf spasm, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Calf spasm: Causes | Symptom Checker ».
Leg cramps are common. The cause is not known in most cases. However, some medications and diseases sometimes cause leg cramps. Regular calf stretching exercises may prevent leg cramps. Quinine tablets may be advised as a last resort if you have cramps regularly. A leg cramp is a pain that comes from a leg muscle. It is due to a muscle spasm, which is when a muscle contracts too hard. It usually occurs in a calf muscle, below and behind a knee. The small muscles of the feet are sometimes affected. The muscle may remain tender for up to 24 hours after a leg cramp. Leg cramps usually occur when you are resting-most commonly at night when in bed. (They are often called night cramps.) They may wake you. It can become a distressing condition if your sleep is regularly disturbed.
A muscle cramp is a strong, painful contraction or tightening of a muscle that comes on suddenly and lasts from a few seconds to several minutes. It often occurs in the legs. A muscle cramp is also called a charley horse. Nighttime leg cramps are usually sudden spasms, or tightening, of muscles in the calf. The muscle cramps can sometimes happen in the thigh or the foot. You may need to try several different ways to stop a muscle cramp before you find what works best for you. Here are some things you can try: 1  Stretch and massage the muscle. 2  Take a warm shower or bath to relax the muscle. 3  A heating pad placed on the muscle can also help.
Muscle cramps are caused by overuse of a muscle, dehydration, stress or fatigue. But if calves cramp painfully when you're trying to sleep, or a muscle often locks up for no apparent reason, the root cause is a faulty chemical signal from the nervous system that tells the muscle to contract. 
Cramp in the Calf Muscles. Cramp is an involuntary contraction of the muscle which can not only be very painful but may also cause muscle damage in severe cases. We look at the possible causes and treatment options available.
Skeletal muscle spasms and cramps are usually caused by overuse of the muscle, either from exercise or a repetitive motion. Spasms can also occur if a muscle is overstretched or held in the same position for too long. The muscle essentially becomes hyperexcitable and fails to relax. Muscle spasms and cramps can also be caused by neuromuscular disorders, such as multiple sclerosis or a spinal cord injury. Movement disorders called dystonias also lead to forceful contractions. Dystonias can also be a complication of stroke. Certain medications can cause involuntary muscle contractions as well.
Treating leg cramps. If the cause of your leg cramps is known, it may be possible to treat the underlying cause. For example, secondary leg cramps that are related to liver disease are caused by high levels of toxins in the blood which trigger muscles spasms. Exercises during cramps. During an episode of leg cramp, stretch and massage the affected muscle. For example, if the cramp is in your calf muscle: 1  Straighten your leg and lift your foot upwards, bending it at the ankle so that your toes point towards your shin.