Purple marijuana stems. Let’s say you are growing your plants indoors, the plants are still fairly young and the leave are average in size, but you notice the stems have turned a purple color starting from the top. There are certain marijuana strains that automatically grow with purple stems, more so when the seedlings are budding, or even once the plants start receiving cooler temperatures during the night.
The Purple Stem Phenomenon. During the course of growth, a grower may come upon the appearance of purple stems on their seedlings. Don t panic. A seedling with purple stem is not exactly an unhealthy seedling. Usually, this purple stem phenomenon is brought about by the plant s genetic make-up. If that is the case, it is absolutely expected for the seedling to exhibit purple stem during the course of its life. Note: The purple stem trait is not exactly a dominant trait which means that cases like this are very rare. 
Solution for purple stems. If your plant seems to be in good condition aside from the stems being purple, refrain from making any changes for a one or two weeks. The majority of the time the plants will turn green fairly quickly. There are certain marijuana strains that automatically grow with purple stems, more so when the seedlings are budding, or even once the plants start receiving cooler temperatures during the night.
by Nebula Haze. Question: My cannabis plants are young (growing in soil indoors with sunlight and my leaves are medium sized) yet my main stems are turning purple from the top downwards. Wait a week or two before making any alterations if your plant otherwise appears healthy. The stems should turn green soon in most cases. As long as your leaves are healthy and you have no other symptoms, you usually don't need to worry about purple stems.
Seeing your marijuana plant with purple stems can be a little scary. You may become quite worried about the overall health of your plant, but this may not be as bad as you think. Below are some things you need to know about this. There are certain marijuana strains that automatically grow with purple stems, more so when the seedlings are budding, or even once the plants start receiving cooler temperatures during the night.
Answer: When a cannabis plant or seedling has a purple stem without any other signs of problems, it is often the result of genetics. Some cannabis strains just naturally tend to grow with purple stems, especially when seedlings are young, or when the plants get cooler temperatures at night. Wait a week or two before making any alterations if your plant otherwise appears healthy. The stems should turn green soon in most cases. As long as your leaves are healthy and you have no other symptoms, you usually don't need to worry about purple stems.
If you are one of these people, we highly recommend that you keep reading. Purple Marijuana Stems. Essentially, plants need light, water, and nutrients to grow. In a growing set up where you use soil, the majority of the nutrients can be absorbed by the plants root system from the soil.
A: When a marijuana plant or seedling has a purple stem, it almost always is the result of genetics. Some strains just grow that way when they're young. Wait a week or two before making any alterations. The plant should turn green soon. Q: Hey Nebula! My plants are young (growing in soil indoors with sunlight and my leaves are medium sized) yet my main stems are turning purple from the top downwards.