Astroglial cells, also known as astrocytes are found throughout the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : An astrocyte is a star-shaped cell that has many processes extending from its cell body into the surrounding network of nerve fibres. Microglial cells are sometimes known simply as microglia and are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : Microglia are small glial cells. : 1  Protects CNS neurons from disease 2  -. e.g. by clearing away debris and dead cells.
Cells of nervous tissue. Nervous tissue is the main component of the two parts of the nervous system; the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system (CNS), and the branching peripheral nerves of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which regulates and controls bodily functions and activity. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia. The tissue is categorized by its neuronal and neuroglial components.
Ectoderm. Ectoderm is one of the three primary germ layers in the very early embryo. The other two layers are the mesoderm (middle layer) and endoderm (most proximal layer), with the ectoderm as the most exterior (or distal) layer. It emerges and originates from the outer layer of germ cells. 
A germ layer is a primary layer of cells that form during embryogenesis. The three germ layers in vertebrates are particularly pronounced; however, all eumetazoans, (animals more complex than the sponge) produce two or three primary germ layers. Gastrulation of a diploblast: The formation of germ layers from a (1) blastula to a (2) gastrula. Some of the ectoderm cells (orange) move inward forming the endoderm (red).
Tissues are formed from cells. Cells group together in the body to form tissues. Tissue is a group of cells that have similar structure and that function together as a unit. 
Nerve Tissue. Although the nervous system is very complex, there are only two main types of cells in nerve tissue. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. 
Embryonic Development of the Neural Tube: The neural tube is the embryonic structure that ultimately forms the brain and spinal cord. It is formed in a process called neurulation, in primary and secondary neurulation processes. In mice, primary neurulation prevails in the rostral sections of the embryo, while secondary neurulation occurs in the caudal section. 
Nervous Tissue: Response to Injury Nervous When a nerve is cut, either healing or permanent interruption of the neural pathways occurs. The final outcome depends on the severity of the injury and on its treatment. Several degenerative changes result when a nerve is cut. 
Structure [edit]. Nervous tissue is composed of neurons, also called nerve cells, and neuroglial cells. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia. The tissue is categorized by its neuronal and neuroglial components.
Ependymal cells are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : : 1  Protection: Forms lining of the ventricles of the brain and central canal of the spinal cord. Microglial cells are sometimes known simply as microglia and are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : Microglia are small glial cells. : 1  Protects CNS neurons from disease 2  -. e.g. by clearing away debris and dead cells.