Chain compounds in which all carbon-to-carbon bonds are only simple single bonds are called ALKANES. These compounds are also called saturated hydrocarbons, because each carbon-to-carbon bond is a single bond, and the valence of the carbon atom is, therefore, saturated.
Hydrocarbons. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes.
Alkanes are the simplest family of hydrocarbons-compounds containing carbon and hydrogen only. They only contain carbon-hydrogen bonds and carbon-carbon single bonds.
Hydrocarbons with only CC single bonds are known as saturated hydrocarbons. If a hydrocarbon contains double and/or triple bonds, it is known as unsaturated. The molecule ethylene (C H) contains a carbon double bond and is officially referred to as ethene, although the name ``ethylene'' is more commonly used.
Hydrocarbons which contain only single bonds are called alkanes. They are called saturated hydrocarbons because there is a hydrogen in every possible location. This gives them a general formula C n H 2n+2. The first four alkanes are methane, ethane, propane, and butane with the Lewis symbols shown below.
Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons. Saturated means that the hydrocarbon has only single bonds and that the hydrocarbon contains the maximum number of hydrogen atoms for each carbon atom. Unsaturated hydrocarbons contain multiple bonding and contain less than the maximum number of hydrogens per carbon.
Unsaturated hydrocarbon: a hydrocarbon that contains one or more carbon-carbon double bonds, triple bonds, or benzene rings. Alkanes: They are saturated hydrocarbons (they have only carbon-carbon single bonds). The molecular formula of this group is C n H 2n+2 (n is the number of carbon atoms).
Hydrocarbons and alkanes. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes.