1 The short hundredweight or cental of 100 lb (45.359237 kg) is used in the US and Canada. 2  The long or imperial hundredweight of 8 stone (112 lb or 50.802345 kg) sees informal use in the imperial system but was banned from commercial use in 1985. History [edit]. The hundredweight has had many different values. In England in around 1300, various different hundreds (centem in Medieval Latin) were defined. The Weights and Measures Act of 1835 formally established the present imperial hundredweight of 112 lb.
CWT is the unit of measurement used when referring to “centum weight”. The term “centum” is Latin for “hundred” and so CWT is also known as “hundredweight”. In specific terms, CWT is a unit of mass which is defined according to pounds. The use of the term “hundredweight” when referring to the weight or mass of objects is said to have been used starting in the 16th century, specifically around the year 1577. In other places, short CWT is renamed to “cental” to distinguish it from the generic “hundredweight” term which refers to the “long” 112-pound type. The use of hundredweight in weighing various objects has its roots on the “avoirdupois” system created by the French.
1 The long or imperial hundredweight of 8 stone (112 lb or 50.802345 kg) sees informal use in the imperial system but was banned from commercial use in 1985. History [edit]. The hundredweight has had many different values. In England in around 1300, various different hundreds (centem in Medieval Latin) were defined. The Weights and Measures Act of 1835 formally established the present imperial hundredweight of 112 lb.
A unit of measurement for weight used in certain commodities trading contracts. In North America, a hundredweight is equal to 100 pounds and is also known as a short hundredweight. In Britain, a hundredweight is 112 pounds and is also known as a long hundredweight. Next Up. In the past, hundredweight was used as a unit of measure for buying and selling many more commodities. Its usage has gradually declined, however, in favor of contract specifications in pounds or kilograms.
hun·dred·weight. n. pl. hundredweight or hun·dred·weights Abbr. cwt. 1. A unit of weight in the US Customary System equal to 100 pounds (45.36 kilograms). Also called cental, short hundredweight. 2. A unit of weight in the British Imperial System equal to 112 pounds (50.80 kilograms). Also called quintal. 2. (Units) Also called: short hundredweight US and Canadian a unit of weight equal to 100 pounds or 45.359 24 kilograms. 3. (Units) Also called: metric hundredweight a metric unit of weight equal to 50 kilograms. (ˈhʌn drɪdˌweɪt). n., pl.
Meronyms (parts of cwt): quarter (a quarter of a hundredweight (28 pounds)). Holonyms (cwt is a part of...): gross ton; long ton; ton (a British unit of weight equivalent to 2240 pounds). 
BREAKING DOWN 'Hundredweight-Cwt'. Hundredweight is used as a unit of measure in trading livestock, grains and other commodities contracts. For example, on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the futures contract for rough rice is 2,000 hundredweights of long grain rough rice. In the past, hundredweight was used as a unit of measure for buying and selling many more commodities. Its usage has gradually declined, however, in favor of contract specifications in pounds or kilograms.
Two versions or two types of CWT exist. One type of CWT is called “long hundredweight”. This type is also called the “British” type or definition and is equivalent to 112 pounds. Using the imperial system of weights and measures, when one speaks of a “hundredweight”, he/she is referring to a total of 100 pounds. In other places, short CWT is renamed to “cental” to distinguish it from the generic “hundredweight” term which refers to the “long” 112-pound type. The use of hundredweight in weighing various objects has its roots on the “avoirdupois” system created by the French.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Hi, CWT means chargeable weight of the shipment. There are 2 kind of weight in Air mode shipment-gross weight ie the actual weight of the shipment and volume weight, which is calculated based on the dimension. Airline charge freight based on the gross weight or volume weight which ever is higher. LCL goods should share transport with other LCL goods, … to make up a full load, which is more economical and sustainable. It can also mean Life Cycle Logistics (this includes reverse logistics for recycling goods after they have been used by consumers). 24 people found this useful.