1 You have completed the Worm Comparison worksheet to relate flatworms, roundworms, and segmented worms. 2  You also described a specific example of each type of worm. 3  Top. 4  In this WebQuest, students will conduct Internet research on worms. 1 Students will then continue with their Internet research to compare flatworms, roundworms, and segmented worms by completing the Worm Comparison worksheet. 2  They should use their research to find more information in order to describe how these three types of worms are similar and how they are different.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The flatworms, or Platyhelminthes, Plathelminthes, or platyhelminths (from the Greek πλατύ, platy, meaning flat and ἕλμινς (root: ἑλμινθ-), helminth- , meaning worm) are a phylum of relatively simple bilaterian, unsegmented, soft-bodied invertebrates. 
All flatworms have a soft body and a triangle-shaped head. They also have eye-spots on top of their heads which can see light. Flatworms are not closely related to most other worms, such as earthworms. Bodies are flat instead of round, and they do not have segments. Flatworms spend most of their time on the bottom, especially since they can't swim. They release sticky mucus (a lot like slugs and snails) which they glide on top of
How are flatworms roundworms and segmentedworms alike? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What are some of the craziest adventures we'll see you go on during Wayfaring? Is a pinworm a type of roundworm or a flatworm? Is a hookworm a roundworm or a flatworm? How is a flatworm tegument ... 9 Contributions. Some of the ways a roundworm is different from a flatworm include:    Body Shape   Flatworms have flat, ribbon shaped bodies, while roundworms are  round (but not s … egmented) and taper towards the end. Both are  bilaterally symmetrical
Most flatworms look very similar, though, so Procotyla fluviatilis looks a lot like these pictures. One of the reasons Procotyla fluviatilis is so common is because it is able to live in most bodies of water, including streams, ponds, and lakes. Like most flatworms, they prefer shallow water. They also have eye-spots on top of their heads which can see light. Flatworms are not closely related to most other worms, such as earthworms. Bodies are flat instead of round, and they do not have segments. Flatworms spend most of their time on the bottom, especially since they can't swim.
Their characteristics are being flat-bodied, cylindrical/round bodied. Below is a flatworm and a parasitic worm. Pictures are fromhttp://www.soest.hawaii.edu/marlin/tribollet/belles%20photos/flat%20worm.jpg. Worms are in the category invertebrates, and 95% of animals are invertebrates. Other animals in their invertebrate category, are insects, starfish, and a lot more
Platyhelminthes. are commonly called flatworms. There are both. parasitic. (dependent on a host organism for survival) and. free-living. forms of this group. Flatworms, either parasitic or free-living forms, have both sexes on the same individual, a condition referred to as. hermaphroditic. . 
1 They have a circulatory system and a digestive system. 2  Flatworms, roundworms, and segmented worms are all invertebrates. 3  Some species of each type of worm are free-living, meaning they are not dependent on another organism for food. 4  Segmented worms are the most complex animals of these three invertebrates. 1 Students will then continue with their Internet research to compare flatworms, roundworms, and segmented worms by completing the Worm Comparison worksheet. 2  They should use their research to find more information in order to describe how these three types of worms are similar and how they are different.
Planaria and other similar flatworms get their food from the water. What is the difference between a roundworm and a flatworm wiki.answers.com › Categories › Science › BiologyMay 03, 2009 · Body Shape Flatworms have flat, ribbon shaped bodies, whileroundworms are round (but not segmented) and taper towards the end. How are flatworms and roundworms similar in body structure wiki.answers.com › … › Animal Life › Arthropods › InsectsMay 17, 2010 · They are both invertebrate's, have bilateral symmetry, and have 3 tissuebody layers.