1 For example, Lemurzone.com lists the parts and labor needed for a typical air bag repair, with an estimated total cost of $3,898. 2  Auto insurance typically covers the cost of air bag replacement, minus any deductible amount on the policy. 1 (Some passenger-side airbags are designed to deflect off of -- and break -- the windshield, and may also break the dashboard.) Labor at $30-$90 or more an hour is usually about a third of the total cost.
There is also a labor cost involved--replacing an airbag is not something to be done by the backyard mechanic. The total cost of replacing an airbag can be well over $1,000, and in some cars the replacement cost can be as much as $3,000 to $4,000. There are also different airbags in your car, including the driver's, passenger's and side and curtain airbags (in some cars). The cost of the airbag is going to average around $300 to $500 (2009 prices).
1 Driver-side air bags can cost $200-$700 or more each, for just the replacement bag, depending on the year, make and model of vehicle. 1 (Some passenger-side airbags are designed to deflect off of -- and break -- the windshield, and may also break the dashboard.) Labor at $30-$90 or more an hour is usually about a third of the total cost.
The price of the car correlates with the price of the airbag. A Ferrari’s airbag will cost more than a Honda’s airbag. 2. Type of Airbags. Driver’s airbags are cheaper than passenger side airbags; there is a $200-$600 price difference. Always use a professional car mechanic for installation of an airbag. In the end, an airbag replacement will cost around $1,000, and even up to $6,000, depending on the type of vehicle. For airbag installation, use TalkLocal. TalkLocal can connect you to the best car mechanics in your area
1 Passenger-side air bags typically cost $400-$1,000 or more; side-curtain or knee air bags are less common and prices vary, but they typically cost about the same or slightly less than passenger-side air bags, depending on the size and design of the side-curtain air bag. 1 (Some passenger-side airbags are designed to deflect off of -- and break -- the windshield, and may also break the dashboard.) Labor at $30-$90 or more an hour is usually about a third of the total cost.
The cost of replacing an airbag outright can be several hundred dollars, although it once again depends partially upon the exact make and model of the car that you're working with. Expect to pay on the order of $1000 to $1500 per airbag to be replaced. Number 3 -- Airbag Resetting. If you've been in an accident, and the airbags themselves have become deployed, you'll have to set them back up in order to be able to drive again.
The specific model of your car and they type of airbag used will affect the cost. There are also different airbags in your car, including the driver's, passenger's and side and curtain airbags (in some cars). The cost of the airbag is going to average around $300 to $500 (2009 prices).
The replacement cost of an airbag depends on many different factors such as the make and model of the car, the location of the airbag, and the kind of product used. Here's some information that will give you a better idea. Since there can be many different kinds of airbags installed in the car, each may have its own costs for replacement. And if you want to get all them replaced, you will have to bear the collective costs. Typically, the cost ranges from approximately $300 to $500.
The cost of an airbag can range anywhere from $2,000 to $4,000, depending on the model of the car. At such prices, it's good to find a few places where you can find cheap airbag replacements. There are online airbag suppliers where you will be able to find replacement airbags. These replacement airbags are completely checked over and they are offered with a limited warranty. You will also find that a few sites will offer you a free installment in your car.