Most workers who are paid an hourly wage and work more than 40 hours in a 7-day work week must be paid overtime. When paying overtime, a business must pay at least one and one-half times the worker’s regular hourly rate. No. Consult this page on Overtime Pay for information about working more than 40 hours in a week. There ARE limitations on the number of work hours that teen workers under age 18 can work. See Teen Workers: Hours of Work for more information.
For every hour you work over 44 hours a week, your employer must pay you at least 1½ times your regular rate of pay (time and a half). Even if you agree in writing to work more than 48 hours a week, your employer must pay you overtime pay for every hour you work over 44 hours a week. You can agree with your employer in writing to average the hours you work over periods of two or more weeks to calculate overtime pay.
Minor Employees. FLSA restricts the hours employees ages 14 and 15 can work, only between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. (9 p.m. from June 1 through Labor Day). They can work three hours per day on a school day, eight hours on a non-school day and no more than 40 hours during a non-school week. They are also prohibited from working during school hours. Related Reading: How to Change a Salaried Employee's Work Week.
Call 1-888-52-LABOR for more information.  Pay overtime at 1 1/2 times your employee’s basic rate after 40 hours of work in a calendar week. If your employee lives in your home, you must pay overtime after 44 hours of work in a week.  Provide one day (24 hours) of rest per week. Domestic workers are covered for minimum wage and overtime wages. The minimum wage is $7.25 per hour. You and your employer can agree on a higher rate of pay. If you don’t live in your employer’s home, you are entitled to overtime pay of 1 ½ times your regular rate of pay when you work more than 40 hours a week. If you live in your employer’s home, they must pay you overtime after 44 hours of wor
Hourly employees working more than 40 hours during a standard workweek must receive overtime pay for all hours above 40. Overtime pay is one-and-one half times an employee's hourly rate. They can work three hours per day on a school day, eight hours on a non-school day and no more than 40 hours during a non-school week. They are also prohibited from working during school hours. Related Reading: How to Change a Salaried Employee's Work Week.
Overtime is paid when an employee works more than 40 hours in a workweek. Hours worked in excess of 8 hours a day is not considered overtime, except when work is performed on a State or county public works construction project. 2. 
The FLSA does not require extra pay for weekend or night work. However, the FLSA does require that covered, nonexempt workers be paid not less than time and one-half the employee's regular rate for time worked over 40 hours in a workweek.
If your employees are salaried, how many hours can they work? And are salaried workers ever entitled to overtime pay? The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not limit the number of hours per day or per week that employees 16 years and older can be required to work, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.
Almost 25 percent of professionals work more than 40 hours a week. BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. In 1840, the average employee worked for 13 hours a day, six days a week. Fortunately, the 40-hour, 8-hours-per-day workweek has become the standard in many occupations, and is generally accepted as the norm. However, salaried employees' workweeks need not hold to this standard. 