Cartilage is a type of dense connective tissue existing within many joints. It is composed of specialized cells called chondrocytes that produce a large amount of extracellular matrix composed of collagen fibers, abundant ground substance rich in proteoglycan, and... cartilage n. Cartilage is a type of connective tissue found between bones and joints of animals and humans. ... A new study shows that regrowing knee cartilage might help people delay knee-replacement surgery.
Chondrocytes, or chondrocytes in lacunae, are cells found in cartilage connective tissue. The number of chondrocytes found in cartilage determine how 'bendy' the cartilage is. When looking though a microscope, chondrocytes look similar to eyeballs floating in goo. 1 Fibro-cartilage is the cartilage with the fewest number of chondrocytes, which means it is the least flexible. 2  This is the type of cartilage found in your knee as well as in-between the vertebrae in your spine.
Lesson Summary. Chondrocytes, or chondrocytes in Lacunae, are cells found in cartilage connective tissue. They are the only cells located in cartilage, they produce and maintain the cartilage matrix, which is a type of lake in which the chondrocytes swim. 1 Fibro-cartilage is the cartilage with the fewest number of chondrocytes, which means it is the least flexible. 2  This is the type of cartilage found in your knee as well as in-between the vertebrae in your spine.
(Science: pathology) connective tissue dominated by extracellular matrix containing collagen type II and large amounts of proteoglycan, particularly chondroitin sulphate. cartilage is more flexible and compressible than bone and often serves as an early skeletal framework, becoming mineralised as the animal ages. Cartilage is produced by chondrocytes that come to lie in small lacunae surrounded by the matrix they have secreted. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 17,927 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link.
Cartilage. Cartilage is type of dense connective tissue. Cartilage is composed of cells called chondrocytes which are dispersed in a firm gel-like ground substance, called the matrix. Cartilage contains no blood vessels and nutrients are diffused through the matrix. Chondrocytes are the only cells found in cartilage. They are responsible for the secretion and maintenance of the matrix. The matrix immediately surrounding the chondrocytes is referred to as the territorial matrix and stains darker than the interstitial matrix. Chondrocytes lie in a cavity called a lacuna.
Cartilage is a strong, flexible type of connective tissue found within a body. Learn more about its structure and function, as well as the different types of cartilage connective tissue we have in our bodies. Connective Tissue Structure and Support. Connective tissue is essential for our bodies to function properly. Bone connective tissue provides structure and support, adipose (or fat) connective tissue insulates and provides energy, and blood connective tissue distributes oxygen to our tissues and removes carbon dioxide.
Medical Definition of CARTILAGE. 1. : a usually translucent somewhat elastic tissue that composes most of the skeleton of vertebrate embryos and except for a small number of structures (as some joints, respiratory passages, and the external ear) is replaced by bone during ossification in the higher vertebrates. 2
Cartilage. Cartilage is type of dense connective tissue. Cartilage is composed of cells called chondrocytes which are dispersed in a firm gel-like ground substance, called the matrix. Cartilage contains no blood vessels and nutrients are diffused through the matrix. Cartilage is a type of dense connective tissue. It is composed of collagen fibers and/or elastin fibers, and can supply smooth surfaces for the movement of articulating bones.
Full Definition of CARTILAGE. 1. : a usually translucent somewhat elastic tissue that composes most of the skeleton of vertebrate embryos and except for a small number of structures (as some joints, respiratory passages, and the external ear) is replaced by bone during ossification in the higher vertebrates. 2