find out what ever happen to the 1993 tv show, Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman. 1  Film & Animation. 2  Standard YouTube License. find out what ever happen to the 1993 tv show, Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman. Category. License.
Joe Lando was named one of People Magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People in 1993. He won the Family Film Award for Outstanding Actor in a Television Series in 1996, for his role of Byron Sully in Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman. Joe also won the following:
A disturbing thing happened the other day. A friend on Facebook confessed that she used to have the hots for Joe Lando AKA Sully from the ’90s period soap ‘Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman.’ Then an avalanche of ‘ Ohmahgawww SULLY!! ‘ comments ensued. Now: Since ‘Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman,’ Lando’s career has been a little bit under the radar, unless movies like ‘Bloodsuckers’ and ‘Meteor Apocalypse’ are on your radar, in which case Joe Lando is all over your radar. Sincerely, he’s all up in it.
Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman cast list, including photos of the actors when available. This list includes all of the Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman main actors and actresses, so if they are an integral part of the show you'll find them below. If you are wondering, Who are the actors from Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman? or Who starred on Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman? then this list will help you answer those questions.
This page puts together a list of the most recent movies and TV shows of the actors from Dr Quinn Medicine Woman. Jake Squared (2013) - completed [amazon] | [imdb]. 
This cast list of actors from Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman focuses primarily on the main characters, but there may be a few actors who played smaller roles on Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman that are on here as well. Everything from Jane Seymour to Colm Meaney is included below. If you are wondering, Who are the actors from Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman? or Who starred on Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman? then this list will help you answer those questions.
He was a teen idol during the late 1980s as David Witherspoon on the NBC family drama Our House and as Zach Nichols on the NBC sitcom My Two Dads before transitioning to an adult career as Matthew Cooper on the CBS western drama Dr. Quinn: Medicine Woman. He announced his retirement from acting in April 2015. 
Premise. Frontier medicine with a feminist slant (but plenty of family values) in a Western drama that follows a female doctor, Michaela `Mike' Quinn, after her move from Boston to the Colorado Territory in the late 1860s. 
Joe Lando (I). Actor | Producer. A former cook in a Hollywood restaurant, Lando first came to the attention of casting directors in the role of heartthrob Jake Harrison on the soap opera One Life to Live. That job led to the co-starring role as the backwoodsman-love interest of Jane Seymour on TV's Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman