If you’re thinking of assembling your own jazz band then here is a list of jazz instruments that you and your future band mates should be able to master in order to create the unique and tantalizing blend of sounds that only jazz music can create.
Bell. Bells aren't always thought of as a musical instrument, but the truth is they are one type of a percussion instrument. Usually bells are metal and have a ringer on the inside. Children can shake bells and learn about rhythm, tune and volume. You can also find instruments that have multiple bells attached to a rope.
Maracas are Latin musical instruments that are typically made of wood, but can also be plastic or metal. They are usually colorful instruments and also in the percussion family. The top of a maraca is an oval-shaped container filled with beads or beans. By shaking the handle, a wonderful musical sound is created.
Percussion instruments are classified as tuned or untuned. Tuned instruments play specific pitches or notes, just like the woodwind, brass and string instruments. Untuned instruments produce a sound with an indefinite pitch, like the sound of a hand knocking on a door.
Percussion instruments produce sound when they are struck or shaken. Their name, percussion, means the hitting of one body against another.. In the orchestra, the percussion section provides rhythm and tone color.
The cabasa is another hand-held instrument that produces a beans in a shaker kinda noise. It's usually made of hard wood with a handle and chain-like metal beads around a spool shape. To use it you simply hold it in one hand while you hit it with the other hand moving the rows of metal beads around the head.
A tambourine is probably one of the first instruments that comes to mind when you are looking for something to shake. This round or crescent-shaped percussion instrument is surrounded by little metal cymbals.
Geophone is the instrument used for measuring earth tremors!!! By the way, the term geophone derives from the Greek word geo meaning earth and phone meaning sound. A geophone is a device which converts ground movement (displacement) into voltage, which may be recorded at a recording station.