The Sales Specialist role markets, prospects, and sells American Family Insurance products in all product lines.... 2 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all American Family Insurance jobs in New Lisbon, WI-New Lisbon jobs. 2  Salary Search: Sales Specialist Insurance salaries in New Lisbon, WI. The Sales Adviser role markets, prospects, and sells American Family Insurance products in all product lines.... 14 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all American Family Insurance jobs in Indianapolis, IN-Indianapolis jobs. 2  Salary Search: Sales Adviser salaries in Indianapolis, IN
1 View all American Family Insurance jobs in Indianapolis, IN-Indianapolis jobs. 2  Salary Search: Sales Adviser salaries in Indianapolis, IN. The Sales Adviser role markets, prospects, and sells American Family Insurance products in all product lines.... 14 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all American Family Insurance jobs in Indianapolis, IN-Indianapolis jobs.
The average American Family Insurance salary ranges from approximately $16,500 per year for Agent Assistant to $192,500 per year for Pricing Manager. Average American Family Insurance hourly pay ranges from approximately $8.25 per hour for Agent Assistant to $24.00 per hour for Team Member. Salary information comes from 419 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed
Develops new prospects and interacts with existing customers to increase sales of an organization's products and/or services. Requires a minimum of an associate's degree or its equivalent with 1-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
American Family Insurance - 413 reviews-Burien, WA. As a sales specialist working for an American Family agency owner, you will market, prospect and sell products in our specialized product line.... The Sales Adviser role markets, prospects, and sells American Family Insurance products in all product lines.... 14 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all American Family Insurance jobs in Indianapolis, IN-Indianapolis jobs. 2  Salary Search: Sales Adviser salaries in Indianapolis, IN
For those with five to nine years of experience, average earnings amount to about $65K per year. Broken down by tenure, the largest share of American Family Insurance Group employees (31 percent) have 10-19 years of experience and earn approximately $79K annually on average. Those lacking certification bring in much lower salaries than Certified ScrumMasters, who make $98
The median income for American Family Insurance Group employees is $54K annually. The most important factor affecting pay for American Family Insurance Group employees is your job title, though geography and how long you've been working play a role as well. The data for this report comes from responses to the PayScale salary survey. Broken down by tenure, the largest share of American Family Insurance Group employees (31 percent) have 10-19 years of experience and earn approximately $79K annually on average.
Develops new prospects and interacts with existing customers primarily by phone to increase sales of an organization's products and/or services. Works with team members in the field including field sales. Provides support to customers over the phone and may conduct field visits as necessary. May require a bachelor's degree and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Requires a minimum of an associate's degree or its equivalent with 1-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.