Applied Wound Management is a method of wound assessment and documentation which seeks to facilitate clinical decision-making, communication between professionals, and clinical audit. 
A healthcare or sales and marketing professional with at least 3 years of wound care experience. Candidates with a professional license applying for the CWCA must possess a full and unrestricted professional license in at least one state and in all states in which the candidate currently practices. 
1 The skin is a barrier to the outside world protecting the body from infection, radiation, and extremes of temperature. 2  There are many types of wounds that can damage the skin including abrasions, lacerations, rupture injuries, punctures, and penetrating wounds. 1 The purpose of medical care for wounds is to prevent complications and preserve function. 2  While important, cosmetic results are not the primary consideration for wound repair. 3  Animal and human bites should always be seen by a medical professional because of the high rate of infection.
The first step in wound management is to assess the cause of the wound and determine whether the wound is acute or chronic. Acute wounds are typically injuries caused by trauma or accidents, such as burns and cuts. First aid wound management for wounds caused by trauma is extremely important. Pressure should be applied to bleeding wounds, and the wound should be examined for debris and contamination. Most wounds should be washed in soap and warm water as soon as possible to cleanse the area and prevent infection.
Wound Management. Wound Management is a supplier of medical supplies to long term care facilities, acute care facilities, and patients at home. The purpose of our website is to provide information to our customers and prospective customers
home health care see home health care. incision site care in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as cleansing, monitoring, and promotion of healing in a wound that is closed with sutures, clips, or staples.
Gently irrigate the wound with a physiologic saline solution. If cost is a major consideration, the patient can prepare a saline solution at home by using 1 gallon of distilled water and 8 teaspoons of table salt. The solution is boiled and then cooled to room temperature before use. Successful treatment of difficult wounds requires assessment of the entire patient and not just the wound. Systemic problems often impair wound healing; conversely, nonhealing wounds may herald systemic pathology.
Most wounds are covered with gauze and/or bandages during the healing process. Wounds that become infected can cause serious complications. Wound management involves the evaluation, treatment, and prevention of injuries. First aid wound management for wounds caused by trauma is extremely important. Pressure should be applied to bleeding wounds, and the wound should be examined for debris and contamination. Most wounds should be washed in soap and warm water as soon as possible to cleanse the area and prevent infection.
Wound Care Facts. 1  The skin is a barrier to the outside world protecting the body from infection, radiation, and extremes of temperature. 2  There are many types of wounds that can damage the skin including abrasions, lacerations, rupture injuries, punctures, and penetrating wounds. 1 The purpose of medical care for wounds is to prevent complications and preserve function. 2  While important, cosmetic results are not the primary consideration for wound repair. 3  Animal and human bites should always be seen by a medical professional because of the high rate of infection.