With the exception of isolated studies on song structure (Shy 1984b), home range (Samuel et al. 1985), and pigmentation (Hudon 1991), little research has focused on the Western Tanager, and much of what is known of the species’ breeding biology, behavior, and migration is anecdotal. Figure 1. Distribution of the Western Tanager. Broadly distributed west of the 104th meridian, the Western Tanager ranges farther north than any other tanager, breeding up to 60°N. At the northern limit of its distribution this tanager may spend as little as two months on its breeding grounds.
The breeding range of Summer Tanager extends east from Texas and Oklahoma to the Atlantic Coast and north to southern Missouri, the Ohio River valley and southern New Jersey, excluding south Florida and the Appalachian Mountains. The highest relative abundances (averaging 10-30 tanagers per North American Breeding Bird Survey [BBS] route) were found in the Pineywoods and in east Oklahoma (Sauer et al. 2005). From Texas the breeding range extends west to California and south into northern Mexico. In winter Summer Tanagers are found from central Mexico through Middle America to Ecuador and Brazil (Howell and Webb 1995, Sauer et al. 2005). SEASONAL OCCURRENCE
Often taken for granted, the brightly plumaged male summer tanager is one of the more spectacular breeding birds of North America. The uniform bloodred feathers seen against a bright green background are quite a sight. The summer feeds mainly on fruit, except during breeding season. 
Home Range. There are a few studies of home territories for western tanagers. A conifer forest in Idaho averaged a home range size of 39,100 square meters, while in Montana; they have an average home range of 28,300 square meters. (Davis, 2001; Samuel, et al., 1985).
Western Tanager: Breeding range includes forests along the western coast of North America from Alaska to Baja California, extend east to Texas and through central New Mexico, central Colorado, extreme northwest Nebraska, and areas of South Dakota to Northwest Territories, Canada. 
Summer tanagers breed throughout the eastern United States south of southern Pennsylvania and northern Illinois, in the southwestern United States and in northern Mexico. They winter from central Mexico through northern South America, as far south as Bolivia and Brazil (Robinson 1996). Summer tanagers are probably killed by hawks, such as Cooper’s hawks. Their eggs and nestlings are probably taken by larger birds, such as blue jays, and climbing mammals such as raccoons and squirrels. Snakes, such as black rat snakes probably also eat summer tanager eggs and chicks.
There is no data available on the home range of summer tanagers. Territory sizes have not been well-studied, but one study found territory sizes of 90,000 to 110,000 square meters (Robinson 1996). Summer tanagers are probably killed by hawks, such as Cooper’s hawks. Their eggs and nestlings are probably taken by larger birds, such as blue jays, and climbing mammals such as raccoons and squirrels. Snakes, such as black rat snakes probably also eat summer tanager eggs and chicks.
Sometimes in spring, when the Scarlet Tanagers have just arrived from their winter home in South America, a late freeze will force them out in the open as they search for insects on roadsides or in gardens. Breeds mostly in deciduous forest, mainly where oaks are common but also in maple, beech, and other trees; sometimes in mixed pine-oak woods, and occasionally in coniferous woods dominated by pine or hemlock. Winters in tropical rain forest in lowlands just east of the Andes.
Cardinals. Habitat. Forests and shade trees (especially oaks). Breeds mostly in deciduous forest, mainly where oaks are common but also in maple, beech, and other trees; sometimes in mixed pine-oak woods, and occasionally in coniferous woods dominated by pine or hemlock. Winters in tropical rain forest in lowlands just east of the Andes. Male Scarlet Tanagers seem almost too bright and exotic for northeastern woodlands. These birds are fairly common in oak forests in summer, but they often remain out of sight as they forage in the leafy upper branches