Full Definition of POLITICALLY CORRECT. : conforming to a belief that language and practices which could offend political sensibilities (as in matters of sex or race) should be eliminated. — political correctness noun. See politically correct defined for English-language learners. See politically correct defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Tweet. : agreeing with the idea that people should be careful to not use language or behave in a way that could offend a particular group of people.
Political correctness is one of the brilliant tools that the American Right developed in the mid–1980s, as part of its demolition of American liberalism.... In 1793, the term politically correct appeared in a U.S. Supreme Court judgment of a political-lawsuit. William Safire states that the first recorded use of the term in the modern sense is by Toni Cade in the 1970 anthology The Black Woman. The term probably entered use in the United Kingdom around 1975.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Political correctness is a type of movement or practice that aims to alter language, policies, and behavior in such ways to prevent the offense, discrimination, and degradation of certain groups of people. Hate speech aside, some believe the political correctness movement has gone too far. There are people who feel that rather than protecting people from offense and discrimination, political correctness is actually drawing attention to their differences.
Too, political correctness is meant to protect a person from such offense or degradation based on his age, gender, and race. Using politically correct language or policies to prevent offending or insulting people based on their sexual orientation, religion, and even occupation is common, as well. Ad. Hate speech aside, some believe the political correctness movement has gone too far. There are people who feel that rather than protecting people from offense and discrimination, political correctness is actually drawing attention to their differences.
The term politically correct was used infrequently in the U.S. until the latter part of the 20th century, and its earlier use did not communicate the social disapproval inherent in more recent usage. In 1793, the term politically correct appeared in a U.S. Supreme Court judgment of a political-lawsuit. William Safire states that the first recorded use of the term in the modern sense is by Toni Cade in the 1970 anthology The Black Woman. The term probably entered use in the United Kingdom around 1975.
politically correct. adjective. Tweet. : agreeing with the idea that people should be careful to not use language or behave in a way that could offend a particular group of people. : conforming to a belief that language and practices which could offend political sensibilities (as in matters of sex or race) should be eliminated. — political correctness noun. See politically correct defined for English-language learners. See politically correct defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Political correctness (adjectivally, politically correct, commonly abbreviated to PC) is an ordinarily pejorative term used to describe language, actions, or policies seen as being excessively calculated not to offend or disadvantage any particular group of people in society. In 1793, the term politically correct appeared in a U.S. Supreme Court judgment of a political-lawsuit. William Safire states that the first recorded use of the term in the modern sense is by Toni Cade in the 1970 anthology The Black Woman. The term probably entered use in the United Kingdom around 1975.
Politically correct is a bit of a misnomer—it isn't about being right, it's about being respectful and considerate. Being politically correct means that you avoid expressions and actions that may exclude, marginalize, or offend a particular group of people. The term first became popular during the 1970s and 1980s. Political correctness has an important purpose: it promotes equality by demonstrating an understanding that all people and groups are valuable to society regardless of race, culture, religion, gender, or sexual orientation. Become familiar with politically correct and incorrect terms. Then start using them in your own speech. The more you practice political correctness, the easier it will be and the less likely you are to offend someone.