You should not use this medicine if you are allergic to vortioxetine, or if you are being treated with linezolid or methylene blue injection. Do not use an MAO inhibitor within 14 days before you take vortioxetine. A dangerous drug interaction could occur. MAO inhibitors include isocarboxazid, phenelzine, rasagiline, selegiline, tranylcypromine, and others. Vortioxetine is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Vortioxetine affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced. Vortioxetine is used to treat major depressive disorder in adult
Vortioxetine is a prescription medication used to treat major depressive disorder (MDD). Vortioxetine belongs to a group of drugs called serotonin modulators. These work by increasing serotonin, a natural substance in the brain. This medication comes in tablet form and is taken usually once a day, with or without food. Common side effects of nausea, constipation and vomiting
A New Multimodal Antidepressant. On September 30, 2013, a new antidepressant, vortioxetine (Brintellix™), produced and comarketed by Lundbeck and Takeda, was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. These questions are particularly relevant for the treatment of depression because many antidepressant agents targeting monoamine receptors are already available, many of which are generic. Despite the already wide availability of antidepressants, there is a need for new treatment options.
By John M. Grohol, Psy.D. ~ 2 min read. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a new medication Monday to treat clinical depression called Brintellix (vortioxetine). It has been approved for use in adults only. “Since medications affect everyone differently, it is important to have a variety of treatment options available for patients who suffer from depression.”. A total of six clinical studies were conducted to garner FDA’s drug approval.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. BRINTELLIX is an immediate-release tablet for oral administration that contains the beta (β) polymorph of vortioxetine hydrobromide (HBr), an antidepressant. Vortioxetine HBr is known chemically as 1-[2-(2,4-Dimethyl-phenylsulfanyl)-phenyl]-piperazine, hydrobromide. Vortioxetine HBr is a white to very slightly beige powder that is slightly soluble in water. Each BRINTELLIX tablet contains 6.355 mg, 12.71 mg, 19.065 mg, or 25.42 mg of vortioxetine HBr equivalent to 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, or 20 mg of vortioxetine, respectively.
Uses. This medication is used to treat depression. It works by helping to restore the balance of a certain natural substance (serotonin) in the brain. Vortioxetine is an SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) and serotonin receptor modulator.
An overview of vortioxetine. Schatzberg AF, Blier P, Culpepper L, Jain R, Papakostas GI, Thase ME. Six clinicians provide an overview of the serotonergic antidepressant vortioxetine, which was recently approved for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. 
Our Brintellix (vortioxetine) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. 
PRESCRIBED FOR: Vortioxetine is used for the treatment of a certain type of depression known as major depressive disorder (MDD). SIDE EFFECTS: The most common side effects of vortioxetine treatment are: 1  nausea, 2  constipation and. 3  vomiting. 