ANSWER: It depends. Under Florida's sales and use tax, if no parts were used in the service and the charge was for labor only, then there would be no tax to pay. But if any parts were used in the service work, the store must charge sales tax on the entire bill. If you want further clarification or information on the state's sales tax laws, call the Florida Department of Revenue's toll-free consumer line at 1-800-352-3671, Ext 4.
If your company is buying these types of services in Florida and not paying Florida sales tax, then the FL DOR will assess the tax, penalties, and interest on your company for not self-accruing use tax on the taxable services. If this is your question, then you've come to the right place. In a nutshell, below is a list of services that are specifically subject to Florida's sales tax use tax.
Florida sales tax applies to catering services, including the  labor. However, if you hired someone just to provide services, with  no food, then there would be no sales tax … . I'm a Florida  Attorney/CPA that does almost nothing by Florida sales and use tax  controversy. I hope this answer helps. In other words, real property improvements  are not subject to sales tax but tangible personal property sales  (and install labor sold with the property) is subject to tax.  I am a CPA/Attorney that does almost nothing but Florida sales  and use tax controversy. I hope this answer helps.  James Sutton, CPA, Esq.
The state charges a 6% tax rate on the sale or rental of goods, with some exceptions such as groceries and medicine. Additionally, counties are able to levy local taxes on top of the state amount, and most do—55 of the 67 Florida counties added local sales tax to the state tax in 2012. Information regarding these and additional taxes can be located from the list below. There is no personal income tax in Florida. 1  Florida Sales Tax: Florida sales tax rate is 6%. 2  Florida State Tax: Florida does not have a state income tax. 3  Florida Corporate Income Tax: Corporations that do business and earn income in Florida must file a corporate income tax return (unless they are exempt)
In other words, real property improvements  are not subject to sales tax but tangible personal property sales  (and install labor sold with the property) is subject to tax.  I am a CPA/Attorney that does almost nothing but Florida sales  and use tax controversy. If any part is used in a repair then you do pay tax on the total bill. If … you had your door hinges lubricated then you pay tax as there was a lubricant used and it stays on the car. If you had your Cooling system tested and no parts or fluids were used then you do Not pay tax on the labor. Also there is no tax on wrecker service. Repair Labor Only Charges for repairs of tangible personal property needing only labor or service are not taxable
However, if your state allows you to defer collection of sales taxes by separately billing labor, parts and materials, then you might want to itemize the bill to include separate charges for both labor ($1,760) and paint used ($240). Included in the price for this service are twelve cans of paint, for which you paid $240. If the invoice you send your customer includes only a single line item charge of $2,000, then you'll probably have to pay sales tax on the paint when you buy it.
1 Florida Sales Tax: Florida sales tax rate is 6%. 2  Florida State Tax: Florida does not have a state income tax. 3  Florida Corporate Income Tax: Corporations that do business and earn income in Florida must file a corporate income tax return (unless they are exempt). Information regarding these and additional taxes can be located from the list below. There is no personal income tax in Florida. 1  Florida Sales Tax: Florida sales tax rate is 6%. 2  Florida State Tax: Florida does not have a state income tax.
Florida sales tax applies to catering services, including the  labor. However, if you hired someone just to provide services, with  no food, then there would be no sales tax … . I'm a Florida  Attorney/CPA that does almost nothing by Florida sales and use tax  controversy. I hope this answer helps. If any part is used in a repair then you do pay tax on the total bill. If … you had your door hinges lubricated then you pay tax as there was a lubricant used and it stays on the car. If you had your Cooling system tested and no parts or fluids were used then you do Not pay tax on the labor. Also there is no tax on wrecker service. Repair Labor Only Charges for repairs of tangible personal property needing only labor or service are not taxable