The Indian Citizenship Act of 1924 granted citizenship to about 125,000 of 300,000 indigenous people in the United States. To put these numbers in perspective, the U.S. population at that time was less than 125 million. Even Native Americans who were granted citizenship rights under the 1924 Act may not have had full citizenship and suffrage rights until 1948. According to a survey by the Department of Interior, seven states still refused to grant Indians voting rights in 1938.
Immigration Provisions of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Congressional Research Service Summary The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) includes provisions to assist foreign nationals who have been victims of domestic abuse. Immigration Provisions of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Congressional Research Service 31 fiance(fiancé) e to disclose whether the relationship resulted from the services of a marriage; broker 173 and it prohibited a marriage broker from disclosing personal contact information of any individual under age. 18
Under the 1924 Act, indigenous people did not have to apply for citizenship, nor did they have to give up their tribal citizenship to become a U.S. citizen. Most tribes had communal property, and in order to have a right to the land, individual Indian people needed to belong to the tribe. Even Native Americans who were granted citizenship rights under the 1924 Act may not have had full citizenship and suffrage rights until 1948. According to a survey by the Department of Interior, seven states still refused to grant Indians voting rights in 1938.
Congressional Record 92, 67th Cong., 2d sess., 9039-67. Sapiro, Women, Citizenship and Nationality, esp. 13-16, contends that passage of the Cable Act depended on congressmen's wish to institute more rigorous naturalization procedures for alien wives of American citizens, in order to restrict the immigrant vote. Sophonisba P. Breckinridge called the policy of the male head's citizenship determining that of his wife and children the family unity doctrine, in Marriage nnrl the Civic Rights of Women (Chicago, 1931), 50-55; so did Waltz, Nationali@ of Married Women, 44-48, and both considered it patriarchal.
The Act did not include citizens born before the effective date of the 1924 act, or outside of the United States as an indigenous person, however, and it was not until the Nationality Act of 1940 that all born on U.S. soil were citizens. Even Native Americans who were granted citizenship rights under the 1924 Act may not have had full citizenship and suffrage rights until 1948. According to a survey by the Department of Interior, seven states still refused to grant Indians voting rights in 1938.
The Indian Citizenship Act of 1924, also known as the Snyder Act, was proposed by Representative Homer P. Snyder (R) of New York and granted full U.S. citizenship to America's indigenous peoples, called Indians in this Act. Even Native Americans who were granted citizenship rights under the 1924 Act may not have had full citizenship and suffrage rights until 1948. According to a survey by the Department of Interior, seven states still refused to grant Indians voting rights in 1938.
The first half of the 1930s yielded some significant advances in women's nationality rights, but, ironically, the pursuit of the most momentous of these achievements cleaved the organizational alliance for independent citizenship into two antagonistic factions. It is apparent from the several changes in the laws of nationality in the 1930s that Congress was diverting some of the energy it had devoted to immigration policy in the 1920s to longstanding problems relating to the assumption and loss of citizenship.
By this time, confusion over women's citizenship, and how a woman might regain U.S. citizenship, had become common. The case of Karen Marie Hosford is a good example. She was born in Denmark and immigrated to Canada, where she met and married Grant Hosford in 1911. Until the mid-nineteenth century, women typically did not hold property or appear as persons before the law. Under these circumstances, only widows and spinsters would be expected to seek the protections U.S. citizenship might afford. One might also remember that naturalization involved the payment of court fees.
Changes to citizenship rules around who is or who is not a Canadian citizen were affected when the Citizenship Act was amended in 2009 and 2015. Changes made to the Citizenship Act in 2009 and 2015 gave Canadian citizenship to certain people who lost it and recognized others as citizens for the first time. 
After 1907, marriage determined a woman's nationality status completely. Under the act of March 2, 1907, all women acquired their husband's nationality upon any marriage occurring after that date. This changed nothing for immigrant women, but U.S.-born citizen women could now lose their citizenship by any marriage to any alien. Until the mid-nineteenth century, women typically did not hold property or appear as persons before the law. Under these circumstances, only widows and spinsters would be expected to seek the protections U.S. citizenship might afford. One might also remember that naturalization involved the payment of court fees.