Folsom Public Library. Our History: The Folsom Public Library serves a rapidly growing city with a rich history dating back to the Gold Rush era. Folsom natives and new residents alike take advantage of the library’s materials, services and programs for recreation, personal, educational ... Folsom Patrons Of The Arts. Mission: The mission of the Folsom Patrons of the Arts is to promote the development of arts & cultural programs, local artists, and arts educational activities by supporting the Folsom Arts and Cultural Council (FACC) to enrich the quality of life in Folsom, ...
Other colleges/universities with over 2000 students near Folsom: 1  Sierra College (about 9 miles; Rocklin, CA; Full-time enrollment: 11,488). 2  American River College (about 11 miles; Sacramento, CA; FT enrollment: 20,452). 3  California State University-Sacramento (about 17 miles; Sacramento, CA; FT enrollment: 22,234). Folsom compared to California state average: 1  Median household income above state average. 2  Unemployed percentage below state average. 3  Hispanic race population percentage below state average. 4  Median age above state average. 5  Length of stay since moving in below state average.
Northern California Outdoor Recreation. Folsom, California is much more than a prison town – as described by Johnny Cash’s “Folsom Prison Blues” and Historic Folsom Prison. 
Amtrak stations near Folsom: 1  9 miles: ROSEVILLE (201 PACIFIC ST.) . 2  10 miles: ROCKLIN (ROCKLIN RD. & RAILROAD AVE.) - Bus Station. 3  10 miles: RANCHO CORDOVA (10369 FOLSOM BLVD.) - Bus Station. Folsom compared to California state average: 1  Median household income above state average. 2  Unemployed percentage below state average. 3  Hispanic race population percentage below state average. 4  Median age above state average. 5  Length of stay since moving in below state average.
Folsom, California. Tweet. Introduction to Folsom, California. The California city of Folsom is located in Sacramento County, about 22 miles northeast of the state capital of Sacramento. A large network of area freeways encompasses the city, and these include Interstate I-80 and U.S. Route 50
Apartments for Rent in Folsom, CA. You searched for apartments in Folsom, CA. Let Apartments.com help you find the perfect rental near you. 
Folsom Harley-Davidson specializes in Harley-Davison Motorcycles and Accessories in Folsom, California. Folsom Harley-Davidson specializes in Harley-Davison Motorcycles and Accessories in Folsom, California. 