The name of three Anglo-Saxon kings, two of whom became saints: Saint Ethelbert of Kent whom Saint Augustine converted to Christianity, and Saint Ethelbert of the East Angles to whom Hereford Cathedral is dedicated. Kreatif forms: Elethelbert, Ethelbertel, Ethelberthu. Below is a charted analysis of the usage of Ethelbert and related names. Adalberto, Adelbert, Al, Albert (#436 a year ago) , Alberto (#513) , Allie, Bert, Bertie, Delbert and Elbert are the popular varying forms of Ethelbert (outside Top 1000) .
Ethelbert in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Join others on the Ethelbert genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Ethelbert surname and its variations. You can Start your Ethelbert Family Tree and discover things you never knew about your own family. Construct a free family tree to trace your own genealogy and learn about your personal family history. Start by entering what you know about yourself and your family
If you get the Page is Not Available message, no mailing list is available. Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Ethelbert in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Ethelbert surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch. You can Start your Ethelbert Family Tree and discover things you never knew about your own family. Construct a free family tree to trace your own genealogy and learn about your personal family history. Start by entering what you know about yourself and your family
The name Ethelbert is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Ethelbert is: Name of a king. English Meaning: The name Ethelbert is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ethelbert is: Splendid. From the Old English name Aethelbeorht, meaning noble and bright. Famous bearers: two English kings of the 6th and 9th centuries. 
Ethelbert. Ethelbert /eth-el-bert/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Ethelbert is noble, bright. The original form Aethelbert or Aethelbeorht, formed from aethel meaning noble and berht meaning bright, famous, and thus the Old English equivalent of Albert. Below is a charted analysis of the usage of Ethelbert and related names. Adalberto, Adelbert, Al, Albert (#436 a year ago) , Alberto (#513) , Allie, Bert, Bertie, Delbert and Elbert are the popular varying forms of Ethelbert (outside Top 1000) .
Medieval form of AEðELBERHT. æðelberht the name was very rare after The norman, conquest but it was revived briefly in the 19th. century 
[ 3 syll. et-hel-ber(t) , eth-elbe-rt ] The baby boy name Ethelbert is pronounced as EH-TH-ehLB-erT †. Ethelbert is primarily used in the English language. It is of Germanic and Old English origin. From Old English roots, its meaning is nobly famous. It is a two-element name derived from the words 'aethel' + 'beorht' meaning noble, honorable + bright, famous respectively. In addition, Ethelbert is a form of the Dutch, German, and Polish name Adalbert. The English name Elbert is a form of Ethelbert. Ethelbert is not frequently used as a baby boy name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Out of the family of boy names directly linked to Ethelbert, Albert was the most popular in 2012