Cocoa Growing Countries. The cocoa tree is a native of the Amazon basin and other tropical areas of South and Central America, where wild varieties still grow in the forests, but the cocoa growing area has extended to the Carribbean and beyond. Different types of cocoa are selected for cultivation in the various growing areas. In Australia, Cadbury uses high quality cocoa beans sourced from Ghana in West Africa and Asia. Most of the world's cocoa is grown in a narrow belt 10 degrees either side of the Equator because cocoa trees grow well in humid tropical climates with regular rains and a short dry season. The trees need even temperatures between 21-23 degrees Celsius, with a fairly constant rainfall of 1000-2500mm per year.
Cocoa beans grow into beautiful trees; these trees grow most successfully in a narrow band called the Cocoa Belt or the Chocolate Belt; this band extends up to 20 degrees of latitude north and south of the equator. Cocoa beans grow poorly in any kind of cold or drought conditions. Additionally, cocoa beans grow best where there is a lot of light. However, they cannot tolerate too much ultraviolet light of the type found at higher altitudes.
One of the reasons why people ask us “Where do cocoa beans grow” is because they are interested in knowing whether they can grow cocoa beans in their house into a cocoa tree. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to grow cocoa trees indoors – especially in the United States. Cocoa beans grow poorly in any kind of cold or drought conditions. Additionally, cocoa beans grow best where there is a lot of light. However, they cannot tolerate too much ultraviolet light of the type found at higher altitudes.
WHY COCOA IS GROWN. People grow cocoa trees in order to sell the cocoa beans that are in the pods. The kernel of the cocoa beans is used to make cocoa and chocolate. In the countries of Europe and North America people eat a lot of cocoa and chocolate. But the cocoa tree does not grow in their countries; they buy cocoa from Africa. The countries of Africa earn a lot of money by selling their cocoa.
Therefore, cocoa is grown in the hot and humid regions of Africa (mainly in forest regions), Central and South America, Asia and Oceania. In the countries of Europe and North America people eat a lot of cocoa and chocolate. But the cocoa tree does not grow in their countries; they buy cocoa from Africa. The countries of Africa earn a lot of money by selling their cocoa.
Many people don’t believe that cocoa beans grow in the US. The truth is, cocoa beans DO grow in the US, but only in very limited areas. Typically, cocoa beans are grown in a narrow band referred to as the Cocoa Belt or Chocolate Belt. While growing cocoa beans in the US is a new industry and there’s always a learning curve, some of the cocoa beans grown in Hawai’i are of excellent quality. Unlike Hawai’i, South Florida has no commercial cocoa plantations.
Cocoa beans grow on a tree called Theobroma cacao and are the base ingredient for making chocolate. The relatively small tree is native to the tropical regions of Central and South America and it thrives in moist, shady areas of the rain forest. 
Cocoa farming is a small,unsophisticated business as the current planting patterns of cocoa treesmake mechanisation impractical. In Asia, public and private plantations have been developed as well asthe small farms. COCOA AND CHOCOLATE Cocoa Growing Countries Main Cocoa Growing Countries Drawing of Cocoa Pods. 
For cocoa beans to thrive, they need high humidity and a lot of rainfall (from about 40 to 100 inches per year). Cocoa beans grow poorly in any kind of cold or drought conditions. Additionally, cocoa beans grow best where there is a lot of light. However, they cannot tolerate too much ultraviolet light of the type found at higher altitudes.
Rainfall. The distribution of annual rainfall for regions in which cocoa is grown is 1250-3000 mm per year. The rainfall must be well distributed and any dry period should be no longer than three months. Annual rainfall greater than 2500 mm may result in a higher incidence of fungal diseases. Cocoa has a fruit thinning mechanism where the young fruit (cherelles) stop growing, turn black and shrivel, but do not fall off the tree. This is called cherelle wilt and is often mistaken as a disease situation. The remaining pods take six months to ripen after pollination. Ripe pods