The vitamin C in amla can help increase the production of platelets and boost your immune system. 1  Eat 3 to 4 gooseberries on an empty stomach every morning. 2  Alternatively, mix together 2 tablespoons each of amla juice and honey. 3  You can also eat homemade jam or pickles made with fresh Indian gooseberries.
A low platelet count is a serious matter that requires medical supervision, but in your diet you could find extra help. In here we give you a list of foods to increase platelets and improve your health.
The main cause of a low platelet count in the blood is bone marrow problems, like anemia and leukemia. Other viral infections too, can affect the bone marrow's ability to produce the adequate supply of platelets. Some of the other common causes of low platelet count are. 1  Pregnancy. 2  The use of certain medication.
2. Milk is high in calcium, which can help your body regenerate the number of platelets. The calcium content works along with Vitamin K and the milk protein fibrinogen. This is to increase your platelet count and improve the blood’s ability to form clots.
1 If your platelet level becomes too low, your doctor can replace lost blood with transfusions of packed red blood cells or platelets. 2  Medications. 3  If your condition is related to an immune system problem, your doctor may prescribe drugs to boost your platelet count. 4  The first-choice drug may be a corticosteroid.
Remedies to increase platelet count. Platelets or thrombocytes are blood cells derived from the bone marrow and necessary for blood clotting. They usually have a lifespan of 10 days and the normal range of platelet count is 150,000 to 400,000/ml.
1 Blood or platelet transfusions. 2  If your platelet level becomes too low, your doctor can replace lost blood with transfusions of packed red blood cells or platelets. 3  Medications. 4  If your condition is related to an immune system problem, your doctor may prescribe drugs to boost your platelet count.
Platelets are the smallest of the blood cells that aid in blood clotting by forming plugs in blood vessel holes. The platelets circulate in the blood with an average lifespan of 5 to 9 days. A normal platelet count in a healthy person ranges from 150,000 to 450,000 platelets per microlitre of blood.
1 Folate (Vitamin B9), which is important in the cell division process (remember that platelets are cells); low folate counts can also contribute to low platelet counts. 2  Folate-rich foods like asparagus, oranges, spinach, and fortified (whole grain, low sugar) cereals should be a part of your diet anyway.