1 Plug your device in to power and connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi. 2  Tap Download and Install. 3  If a message asks to temporarily remove apps because iOS needs more space for the update, tap Continue or Cancel. 4  Later, iOS will reinstall apps that it removed. 5  If you tap Cancel, learn what to do next.
1 You may backup the iOS device using iCloud or iTunes, based on your choice. 2  Download the latest version of iTunes (v12.1.1) from here and install it on the computer. 3  Ensure your device is connected to an AC power outlet to prevent battery drain or abrupt device shutdown, during the update process.
If a message says that an update is available, tap Install Now. You can also follow these steps: 1  Plug your device in to power and connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi. 2  Tap Download and Install. 3  If a message asks to temporarily remove apps because iOS needs more space for the update, tap Continue or Cancel.
If you're running iOS 7 or newer your iPhone or iPad, you no longer have to manually check for app updates and trigger the installs. iOS can take care of it for you with absolutely no effort on your part. Some of us, however, prefer controlling our updates and may not care for automatic app updates.
1 Back up important data and settings on your iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch, before you try updating the device with the latest iOS firmware. 2  You may backup the iOS device using iCloud or iTunes, based on your choice. 3  Download the latest version of iTunes (v12.1.1) from here and install it on the computer.
His view, and the view of many other users, is that iOS should automatically download and install any app updates when they are available. The senator (and a lot of iOS users) will be happy to know that on iOS 7, apps will automatically update in the background.
Pre-requisites. 1  Back up important data and settings on your iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch, before you try updating the device with the latest iOS firmware. 2  You may backup the iOS device using iCloud or iTunes, based on your choice. 3  Download the latest version of iTunes (v12.1.1) from here and install it on the computer.
How to disable automatic app updates on your iPhone or iPad. 1  Launch the Settings app from the Home screen of your iPhone or iPad. 2  Scroll down and tap on iTunes & App Store. 3  Under the Automatic Downloads section, turn the option for Updates to Off.