Historically, protozoa were defined as single-celled organisms with animal-like behaviors, such as motility and predation. The group was regarded as the zoological counterpart to the  protophyta , which were considered to be plant-like, as they are capable of photosynthesis. Protozoa, as traditionally defined, are mainly microscopic organisms, ranging in size from 10 to 52 micrometers. Some, however, are significantly larger. Among the largest are the deep-sea dwelling xenophyophores, single-celled foraminifera whose shells can reach 20 cm in diameter.
Protozoa. formerly, the name of an animal phylum comprising a large, diverse assortment of microscopic or near-microscopic one-celled heterotrophic organisms (protozoans protozoan, informal term for the unicellular heterotrophs of the kingdom Protista. Morphology. A protozoan may be a plastic organism (ameboid type), but changes in form are often restricted by the pellicle. A protective layer is often secreted outside the pellicle, although the pellicle itself may be strengthened by incorporation of minerals.
Protozoa are almost as widely distributed as bacteria. Free-living types occur in soil, wet sand, and in fresh, brackish, and salt waters. Protozoa of the soil and sand live in films of moisture on the particles. Morphology. A protozoan may be a plastic organism (ameboid type), but changes in form are often restricted by the pellicle. A protective layer is often secreted outside the pellicle, although the pellicle itself may be strengthened by incorporation of minerals.
Protozoa are a diverse group of organisms that are non-phototrophic, unicellular, eukaryotic microorganisms with no cell walls. In general, protozoa have different stages in their lifecycles. Trophozoites are the active, reproductive, and feeding stage. Many sporozoans cause disease. Of all the diseases caused by protozoa, the deadliest is malaria, caused by the sporozoan Plasmodium. When a female Anopheles mosquito bites a human, it is able to transmit Plasmodium into the bloodstream.
Protozoa include free-living forms, such as amebas and paramecia, as well as parasites. Approximately 30 protozoa are pathogenic to humans, including Plasmodium, which causes malaria, and Trypanosoma, which causes sleeping sickness. See also mastigophora. protozoal, protozoan, adj. Protozoa. a subkingdom (formerly a phylum) comprising the unicellular eukaryotic organisms; most are free-living, but some lead commensalistic, mutualistic, or parasitic existences.
The terms protozoa and protozoans are also used informally to designate single-celled, non-photosynthetic protists, such as ciliates, amoebae and flagellates. Protozoa, as traditionally defined, are mainly microscopic organisms, ranging in size from 10 to 52 micrometers. Some, however, are significantly larger. Among the largest are the deep-sea dwelling xenophyophores, single-celled foraminifera whose shells can reach 20 cm in diameter.
Full Definition of PROTOZOAN. : any of a phylum or subkingdom (Protozoa) of chiefly motile and heterotrophic unicellular protists (as amoebas, trypanosomes, sporozoans, and paramecia) that are represented in almost every kind of habitat and include some pathogenic parasites of humans and domestic animals. 
Protozoa, from the Greek meaning ‘first animal’, refers to simple, eukaryotic organisms composed of a microscopic single cell. Reproduction is through simple asexual cell division, or binary fission, in which two daughter cells are formed or, if many daughter cells are formed, multiple fission. Amoebae: These are the simplest of the protozoa and are characterised by a feeding and dividing trophozoite stage that moves by temporary extensions of the cell called pseudopodia (‘false feet’). In some species the trophozoite can form a resistant cyst stage able to survive in the environment.
When protozoa are in the form of trophozoites (Greek, tropho = to nourish), they actively feed. The conversion of a trophozoite to cyst form is known as encystation, while the process of transforming back into a trophozoite is known as excystation. Protozoa, as traditionally defined, are mainly microscopic organisms, ranging in size from 10 to 52 micrometers. Some, however, are significantly larger. Among the largest are the deep-sea dwelling xenophyophores, single-celled foraminifera whose shells can reach 20 cm in diameter.
Protozoa are large, single-celled organinsms. Perhaps the most famous protozoa, the amoeba, can be up to 1 mm in size (gigantic for a single cell). The protozoa that cause parasitic infections in humans are usually in the size range of 1-100 micrometres (millionths of a metre) and have two stages in their life cycle. 