Definition. The manufacturing process is a procedure undertaken by a manufacturing firm by which it transforms ideas into products that are then distributed to the market for sale. The process involves a sequence of steps that occasionally will overlap. Let's take a look at the steps. Summary. A manufacturing process is a set of steps that are undertaken by a manufacturing firm in producing a product from conception to distribution to the marketplace. You can think of it as a series of six steps that may occasionally overlap.
In process manufacturing, the relevant factors are ingredients, not parts; formulas, not bills of materials; and bulk materials rather than individual units. In process manufacturing, the formula for making the product and the recipe for packaging the product exist in separate structures to reduce the ongoing maintenance function. In the production cycle, a work order is issued to make the product in bulk.
Definition. The process of converting raw materials, components, or parts into finished goods that meet a customer's expectations or specifications. Manufacturing commonly employs a man-machine setup with division of labor in a large scale production. 
Manufacturing processes can include treating (such as heat treating or coating), machining, or reshaping the material. The manufacturing process also includes tests and checks for quality assurance during or after the manufacturing, and planning the production process prior to manufacturing. The manufacturing process begins with the creation of the materials from which the design is made. These materials are then modified through manufacturing processes to become the required part.
Definition of Manufacturing Processes. Manufacturing processes are the steps through which raw materials are transformed into a final product. The manufacturing process begins with the creation of the materials from which the design is made. These materials are then modified through manufacturing processes to become the required part.
Manufacturing that involves the combination of supplies or ingredients according to formulas or recipes, rather than the assembly of discrete parts through mechanical processes. 
Process manufacturing is the production of goods that are typically produced in bulk quantities, as opposed to discrete and countable units. Process manufacturing industries include chemicals, food and beverage, gasoline, paint and pharmaceutical. Discover how General Electric, John Deere, and Yankee Candle are turning sensor data, big data, and Internet data into actionable information for their supply chains (and how you can too).
Process manufacturing is common in the food, beverage, chemical, pharmaceutical, consumer packaged goods, and biotechnology industries. In process manufacturing, the formula for making the product and the recipe for packaging the product exist in separate structures to reduce the ongoing maintenance function. In the production cycle, a work order is issued to make the product in bulk.
Process manufacturing is the branch of manufacturing that is associated with formulas and manufacturing recipes, and can be contrasted with discrete manufacturing, which is concerned with discrete units, bills of materials and the assembly of components. In process manufacturing, the formula for making the product and the recipe for packaging the product exist in separate structures to reduce the ongoing maintenance function. In the production cycle, a work order is issued to make the product in bulk.