There are many causes of boils. Some boils can be caused by an ingrown hair. Others can form as the result of a splinter or other foreign material that has become lodged in the skin. Others boils, such as those of acne, are caused by plugged sweat glands that become infected. 
A boil, also called a furuncle, is a deep folliculitis, infection of the hair follicle. It is most commonly caused by infection by the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus, resulting in a painful swollen area on the skin caused by an accumulation of pus and dead tissue. 
Causes of boils. In most cases boils are brought on by contamination of the hair follicles. This is caused by a type of bacteria, known as Staphylococcus aureus or staph, which lives on the surface of the skin. Bacteria are able to penetrate the follicles if there is a tiny cut in the skin and they can then cause an infection. A boil is a skin condition which occurs due to a build-up of dead tissue and pus in a specific area under the skin. In most cases boils are brought on by inflammation of the hair follicles.
Causes of boils and carbuncles. Boils and carbuncles are often caused by a type of bacteria known as Staphylococcus aureus (staph bacteria) infecting one or more hair follicles. Staph bacteria usually live harmlessly on the surface of the skin or in the lining of the nose. 
Boil: Introduction. A boil is a large infection of a hair follicle, the tiny opening in the skin from which a hair grows. Boils are due to an invasion of bacteria that enter the follicle and cause a bacterial infection of the follicle and nearby skin. Boils are also called skin abscesses or furuncles. Symptoms of a boil include a lump or swelling that forms under the skin. The lump and nearby area is also painful, swollen, red, and inflamed and can feel hot to the touch. The swelling or lump eventually pushes to the skin's surface and comes to a head of pus.
Boils are very common. They are most often caused by the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus. They can also be caused by other types bacteria or fungi found on the skin's surface. Damage to the hair follicle allows the infection to grow deeper into the follicle and the tissues under it. 
Bacteria. Most skin boils are caused a bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus (staph). Staph lives on the surface of normal skin and usually doesn't cause any problems. A tiny scratch or cut can let the bacteria in, though, and allow it to grow more than usual. Gradually, an area of the skin over the boil will thin and then rupture, allowing the pus to drain out. The pus is yellow or green and often smells foul. Boils can appear almost anywhere on the skin. They occur more often on hairy parts of the body, where the infection may begin in a hair follicle.
A boil is a red, swollen, painful bump under the skin. It often looks like an overgrown pimple. Boils are often caused by infected hair follicles. Bacteria from the infection form an abscess, or pocket of pus. A boil can become large and cause severe pain. Boils most often happen where there is hair and rubbing. The face, neck, armpits, breasts, groin, and buttocks are common sites.