1 Check a person after exposure to a virus. 2  For example, a viral test may be done after a health professional is accidentally stuck with a needle containing contaminated blood to see if he or she became infected with the virus. 3  Find a viral infection in a potential blood donor to prevent the donation of infected blood.
1 Find a viral infection that is causing symptoms. 2  Check a person after exposure to a virus. 3  For example, a viral test may be done after a health professional is accidentally stuck with a needle containing contaminated blood to see if he or she became infected with the virus.
A viral test is done to: 1  Find a viral infection that is causing symptoms. 2  Check a person after exposure to a virus. 3  For example, a viral test may be done after a health professional is accidentally stuck with a needle containing contaminated blood to see if he or she became infected with the virus.
Why It Is Done. A viral test is done to: 1  Find a viral infection that is causing symptoms. 2  Check a person after exposure to a virus. 3  For example, a viral test may be done after a health professional is accidentally stuck with a needle containing contaminated blood to see if he or she became infected with the virus.
The antibody titer is a test that detects the presence and measures the amount of antibodies within a person’s blood. The amount and diversity of antibodies correlates to the strength of the body’s immune response.
Results. A viral test is done to find infection-causing viruses. It may take as little as 1 day or up to several weeks to get test results. The results of some viral tests (antibody or antigen tests) are reported in titers.
The Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) Titer is a blood test that checks if you are immune to Varicella Zoster Virus, also known as Chickenpox and Shingles. It measures your antibody levels to get a sense for whether your immune system has the capability to respond to an infection with one of these diseases.
Results. A viral test is done to find infection-causing viruses. It may take as little as 1 day or up to several weeks to get test results. The results of some viral tests (antibody or antigen tests) are reported in titers. A titer is a measure of how much the sample can be diluted before the viral antibodies or antigens can no longer be detected. Depending on the virus, it can take weeks for antibodies to develop after exposure to the virus.