The Labrys and the Heart. In seeking to understand anatomical symbols such as the heart. it is important to realise that they refer to Realities far beyond the physical plane. It has been suggested, for example, that the cave (a symbol crucial to the Nativity Mystery) is a symbol of the womb. The labrys is thus a symbol of harmony, obedience and right relations. As such, it is the emblem not only of the life of the old matriarchal nations of the earth, but also of the Deanic déanic way of life in Every aristasian, household and among all who live according to the law Of. heaven
Labrys is the term for a symmetrical doubleheaded axe originally from Crete in Greece, one of the oldest symbols of Greek civilization; to the Romans, it was known as a bipennis. 
The word “labrys” is Minoan in origin and is from the same root as the Latin labus, or lips. Similar symbols appear on Norse, African, and Greek religious objects, where it is most often a feminine symbol, most likely lunar in origin. Use of the labrys has been documented on medieval charms used to attract women. Today, it is often used as a sign of identity and solidarity among lesbians.
The Labrys, or double Moon-Axe, is found in many parts of the pre-patriarchal world. It has been picked up by modern feminists and goddess groups with little understanding of its actual meaning and used as a symbol, to the point where it is regarded by many devotees of Our Mother God with some suspicion. The labrys is thus a symbol of harmony, obedience and right relations. As such, it is the emblem not only of the life of the old matriarchal nations of the earth, but also of the Deanic déanic way of life in Every aristasian, household and among all who live according to the law Of. heaven
The labrys was formerly a symbol of Greek fascism. During the period of the 4th of August Regime (1936–1941), the labrys was used as the main symbol of the regime-sponsored National Organisation of Youth (EON), as its leader, Ioannis Metaxas believed the symbol to be the first symbol of all Hellenic civilizations. Today it is sometimes used as a symbol of Hellenic Polytheistic Reconstructionism. It is also used by black metal fans in Greece as a symbol of Greek neopaganism. Further, it is used by Cretan folklore preservation societies and associations both in Greece and abroad, on occasion with the modern Greek spelling lavrys.
Skreened. The labrys, or double-bladed battle axe, was a symbol used in the ancient civilization of Minoan Crete (sometimes portrayed as having certain matriarchal tendencies). It represents lesbian and feminist strength and self-sufficiency. It has been in use since the late 1970s. 
Labrys (Greek: λάβρυς, labrys) lábrys is the term for a symmetric doubleheaded axe originally From crete In, greece one of the oldest symbols Of greek; civilization to The, romans it was known as a. Bipennis the symbol was commonly associated with female. divinities Labrys was a cult-word that was introduced from Anatolia, where such symbols have been found in Çatal çatal hoeyuek höyük from the. Neolithic Age in Labraunda of caria-the double axe accompanies-the Storm God. zeus labraundos
This page is about the meaning, origin and characteristic of the symbol, emblem, seal, sign, logo or flag: Labrys. Labrys (λάβρυς in Greek, labrys) lábrys is the term for a symmetrical doubleheaded axe originally From crete In, greece one of the oldest symbols Of greek; civilization to The, romans it was known as a. bipennis Today it is sometimes used as a symbol of Hellenic Polytheistic Reconstructionism. It is also used by black metal fans in Greece as a symbol of Greek neopaganism. Further, it is used by Cretan folklore preservation societies and associations both in Greece and abroad, on occasion with the modern Greek spelling lavrys.
Labrys The labrys is a double edged hatchet or axe which was commonly used by matriarchal societies as both a weapon and a harvesting tool. Today, the labrys is a lesbian and feminist symbol of strength and self-sufficiency. Lesbians continue to use it as a common symbol of pride. 
Labrys Labrys is a symmetric double-headed ritual axe that is one of the holiest Cretan religious symbols. It is also known as Labyris, Sagarus and Halbryce. The term ‘Labrys’ traces its roots to the Latin word ‘labus’, which means ‘lips’. So, the symbol is said to denote a part of the female genitalia, labia that is the entrance of womb. Its symbolism is also linked directly with the Labyrinth, which originally denotes the Palace of Knossos in the city of Crete. In Greek mythology, the Labrys (also called Pelekys) appears as an ancient symbol linked with the Thunder God, Zeus who used the axe to invoke storms. The Labrys is also associated with Amazons that was a legendary warrior society of women that did not follow the patriarchal culture.