The purpose of this Cooperative Agreement financed by the U.S. Department of Labor is to: 1  develop population estimates for the prevalence of children working in the worst forms of child labor in the cocoa growing areas of Cote côte'd lvoire And ghana based on data From Tulane'university s earlier survey in/2008,  2009 Survey research on child labor in West African Cocoa Growing Areas: An Introduction from Tulane University Law School Payson Center for International Development.
Child labor, unfair prices and poverty earnings characterize the tobacco growing sector. For over 100 years cigarette manufacturers and leaf buying companies have exploited farmers to obtain profits from below-cost leaf, unpaid child labor and low-cost and bonded adult laborers. 
COMBATING CHILD LABOUR IN COCOA GROWING ILO/IPEC’S Contribution In late 2000 and early 2001, media reported that children were being trafficked and employed in large numbers in hazardous work and in slave-like conditions in West Africa. A BBC documentary highlighted the problem on cocoa farms in autumn 2000. 
Children engaged in child labour in tobacco growing are involved in many types of tasks, as shown in the Report on Child Labour in the Tobacco Growing Sector in Africa (2000). 1 Children’s health, wellbeing, and opportunities for a better life are often the cost of children’s involvement in hazardous child labour. 2  Child labour in tobacco growing can pose health risks, including green tobacco sickness, which can cause fatigue and nausea.
Child labour refers to the employment of children in any work that deprives children of their childhood, interferes with their ability to attend regular school, and that is mentally, physically, socially or morally dangerous and harmful. This practice is considered exploitative by many international organisations. 
The widespread use of children in cocoa production is controversial, not only for the concerns about child labor and exploitation, but also because up to 12,000 of the 200,000 children working in Cote côte'D, ivoire the'world s biggest producer of, cocoa may be victims of trafficking or. slavery Not all work that children do is child labor. Work done that is not detrimental to children’s health, development or schooling is beneficial because it allows children to develop skills, gain experience and prepare them for future positions; these are not considered
As industrialization moved workers from farms and home workshops into urban areas and factory work, children were often preferred, because factory owners viewed them as more manageable, cheaper, and less likely to strike. Growing opposition to child labor in the North caused many factories to move to the South. By 1900, states varied considerably in whether they had child labor standards and in their content and degree of enforcement. By then, American children worked in large numbers in mines, glass factories, textiles, agriculture, canneries, home industries, and as newsboys, messengers, bootblacks, and peddlers.
1 develop population estimates for the prevalence of children working in the worst forms of child labor in the cocoa growing areas of Cote côte'd lvoire And ghana based on data From Tulane'university s earlier survey in/2008,  2009 Survey research on child labor in West African Cocoa Growing Areas: An Introduction from Tulane University Law School Payson Center for International Development.
BEIJING (AP)  Child labor is a growing problem in China, a monitoring group said Monday, adding to long-standing concerns voiced by human rights groups and even the International Olympic Committee. Employers may increasingly be turning to child workers because of growing scarcity of cheap adult labor in industrialized parts of China. Children are also less likely to assert their legal rights and earn salaries of as little as 300 yuan (about $40) per month, the report said.
The growing army of child laborers in Africa is expected to swell by at least one million new children per year if current economic and social trends persist, the International Labour Office warned today in a report prepared for a tripartite meeting of workers, employers and governments in Kampala, Uganda. The ILO estimates that the number of child laborers in Africa could surge from today’s 80 million to over 100 million by the year 2015, as a result of a demographic explosion of impoverished people and poor or inadequate levels of economic growth across much of the continent.