In most cases, you can continue to breastfeed your baby when you are sick, and if your baby is sick. But, if you are sick with the flu, including the H1N1 flu (also called the swine flu), you should avoid being near your baby, so that you do not infect him or her. To prepare for breastfeeding, the most important thing you can do is have confidence in yourself and to plan ahead. Committing to breastfeeding starts with the belief that you can do it! Other steps you can take to prepare for breastfeeding are: 1  Get good prenatal care, which can help you avoid early delivery.
How to start breastfeeding. The first time you hold your newborn in the delivery room is a great time to start breastfeeding. At the beginning, your body will produce small amounts of a special milk called colostrum that will help protect your baby from infection. (Your baby's tummy is very tiny, so she only needs these small amounts to fill up. Don't hesitate to ask a nurse to show you what to do, and request visits from a lactation consultant while you're in the hospital (many hospitals have them on staff). 10 tips for breastfeeding success Watch a lactation consultant help a new mom learn how to breastfeed her baby.
A few seconds to several minutes after you start breastfeeding, you may feel a tingle in your breast, and milk may start to drip from the breast not being used. These are signs that your milk has let-down.. Let-down may also occur if a feeding is overdue, if you hear your baby cry or even if you think about your baby. Let-down can be forceful enough to cause your baby to cough. If this is a problem, you can express some of your milk by hand before a feeding to bring on the let-down reflex before you start breastfeeding.
If your baby isn't latched on the right way, you'll need to start over. To take your baby off your breast, release the suction by putting your finger in the corner of your baby's mouth between the gums. Don't limit the time you let your baby nurse. Let-down may also occur if a feeding is overdue, if you hear your baby cry or even if you think about your baby. Let-down can be forceful enough to cause your baby to cough. If this is a problem, you can express some of your milk by hand before a feeding to bring on the let-down reflex before you start breastfeeding.
The Department of Health recommends that your baby has only breastmilk for the first six months of her life. It also recommends that you carry on breastfeeding after your baby has started on solid foods, until the end of her first year and beyond, if you'd like to (WHO 2002, Unicef and DH 2010) . 1 Feeds can take anything from five minutes to 40 minutes, so find a comfortable place before you start. 2  In the early days of breastfeeding, when you're still trying to get the hang of it, creating the right atmosphere is important. 3  If you're easily distracted by noise, find somewhere quiet.
If you've just started breastfeeding, you're doing the right thing for you and your baby. But if breastfeeding doesn't come naturally at first, don't worry. Plenty of new mums and babies have to practise and persevere until they get the hang of it. Yes, breastmilk is the best food for your baby. 1 Feeds can take anything from five minutes to 40 minutes, so find a comfortable place before you start. 2  In the early days of breastfeeding, when you're still trying to get the hang of it, creating the right atmosphere is important. 3  If you're easily distracted by noise, find somewhere quiet.
A newborn's tummy is very small, especially in the early days. Once breastfeeding is established, exclusively breastfed babies who are 1 to 6 months old take in between 19 and 30 ounces of breastmilk each day. If you breastfeed your baby eight times a day, your baby will get around 3 ounces per feeding. But every baby is different. To prepare for breastfeeding, the most important thing you can do is have confidence in yourself and to plan ahead. Committing to breastfeeding starts with the belief that you can do it! Other steps you can take to prepare for breastfeeding are: 1  Get good prenatal care, which can help you avoid early delivery.
Wash your hands before each feeding. With your free hand, put your thumb on top of your breast and your other fingers below. Touch your baby's lips with your nipple until your baby opens his or her mouth very wide. Put your nipple all the way in your baby's mouth and pull your baby's body close to you. This lets your baby's jaw squeeze the milk ducts under your areola. When your baby is latched on the right way, both lips should pout out (not be pulled in over his or her gums) and cover nearly all of the areola. Let-down may also occur if a feeding is overdue, if you hear your baby cry or even if you think about your baby. Let-down can be forceful enough to cause your baby to cough. If this is a problem, you can express some of your milk by hand before a feeding to bring on the let-down reflex before you start breastfeeding.
10 tips for breastfeeding success. Watch a lactation consultant help a new mom learn how to breastfeed her baby. If you have a premature baby, you may not be able to nurse right away, but you should start pumping your milk. Don't hesitate to ask a nurse to show you what to do, and request visits from a lactation consultant while you're in the hospital (many hospitals have them on staff). 10 tips for breastfeeding success
Pumping your breasts takes about the same time as breastfeeding, but with practice and a good pump, you can pump your breasts in as little as 10 to 15 minutes. While you are at work, try to pump as often as your baby usually feeds or for about 15 minutes every few hours. If you will be pumping your breasts when you return to work, before you go back practice for 1 or 2 weeks to get the hang of it. You can try pumping just after your baby eats or you can pump your breasts between feedings.