When taken in high doses, the symptoms of poison ivy can be reduced in both severity and duration by the use of a corticosteroid such as prednisone. Poison ivy and other contact allergens, such as poison oak and poison sumac, cause severe rashes and itching. When this occurs, prescription relief may be in order. Side effects. When taking prednisone for poison ivy, there are certain side effects to be aware of. Mental symptoms may include confusion, mood swings, a heightened sense of well being, nervousness, and personality differences.
Prednisone dosage for poison ivy. Prednisone dosage for poison ivy can differ depending on your physician, but this is an example of a possible dose. Typically, prednisone doses last 15 days, and the dose is decreased gradually in order to reduce withdrawal symptoms. Side effects. When taking prednisone for poison ivy, there are certain side effects to be aware of. Mental symptoms may include confusion, mood swings, a heightened sense of well being, nervousness, and personality differences.
A typical dose of prednisone for the average size adult is prednisone 20 mg twice a day for 7-10 days followed by 20 mg a day in the morning for 3 days. That program should be adequate to treat most cases of poison ivy. 
Read More. I've taken it for my asthma, arthritis, lupus, bronchitis, pneumonia and even a severe case of poison ivy. At my highest dose/time, I was on 120 mg (about double what the normal starting daily dose is) and was on that dose for over a year. Obviously I had the worst side effects when I was at that level. Read More. I have one allergy and that is to the oil on the leaves of poison plants like poison ivy, poison oak, and poison summac. I love mango fruit and would knock them off my grandmas tree in Florida and eat them. Then I would break out in a rash on my lips and face. Still ate the fruit because I loved them.
Prescription Treatment. Standard prescription therapy for poison ivy is administration of prednisone in a tapering dosage over two to three weeks. Shorter dose-paks (e.g., methylprednisolone) can be frustrating for the patient, since poison ivy often lasts longer than the tablets. 
1 Corticosteroid pills (usually prednisone) can dramatically reduce the symptoms caused by a strong reaction to poison ivy, oak, or sumac. 2  Oral corticosteroids generally work better than other forms of these medicines for poison ivy, oak, or sumac. 3  And they are usually taken until the symptoms are gone. High-dose topical corticosteroids should not be confused with over-the-counter hydrocortisone creams, gels, or ointments, which may soothe itching in mild cases of poison ivy, oak, or sumac rash.
To: Dr_Aparna. I needed the prednisone for poison sumac and called my doctor (she is my new PC) and she called in 7 20mg tablets to be taken 1 once a day for 7 days. Now I know by experience that they usually taper prednisone starting at the higher dose down to a lower dose and then stop. SAFE PREDNISONE DOSE FOR POISON IVY. I recently got poison ivy, which I normally get once a year really bad and get the little punch pouch of of prednisone (6-5-4-3..).
Prednisone dosage for poison ivy dermatitis is not generalized, and may differ in your case. It is best to follow the directions suggested by your health care provider. Prednisone for poison ivy treatment comes with a label with exact dosing instructions inscribed in it. This makes it able to provide relief even in the severe cases of poison ivy blisters. Prednisone dosage for poison ivy rash is generally taken orally for a period of 15 days. In the first 5 days, you are supposed to take 60 mg of prednisone daily. It is followed by 40 mg of prednisone per day for the next 5 days