Thyroid disorders can range from a small, harmless goiter (enlarged gland) that needs no treatment to life-threatening cancer. The most common thyroid problems involve abnormal production of thyroid hormones. Too much thyroid hormone results in a condition known as hyperthyroidism. Causes of hypothyroidism include: 1  Hashimoto's thyroiditis: In this autoimmune disorder, the body attacks thyroid tissue. 2  The tissue eventually dies and stops producing hormones.
Definition. Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) is a condition in which your thyroid gland produces too much of the hormone thyroxine. Hyperthyroidism can accelerate your body's metabolism significantly, causing sudden weight loss, a rapid or irregular heartbeat, sweating, and nervousness or irritability. 
Thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is a condition in which your immune system attacks your thyroid, a small gland at the base of your neck below your Adam's apple. The thyroid gland is part of your endocrine system, which produces hormones that coordinate many of your body's activities. Hashimoto's disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It primarily affects middle-aged women but also can occur in men and women of any age and in children. Doctors test your thyroid function to help detect Hashimoto's disease.
1 Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid gland. 2  This can lower the amount of hormones produced. 3  Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a painless disease of the immune system that is hereditary. 4  Postpartum thyroiditis occurs in 5 percent to 9 percent of women after giving birth. The following conditions cause hypothyroidism: 1 
Your thyroid is a small gland at the base of your neck that makes thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormone controls many activities in your body, including how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. Diseases of the thyroid cause it to make either too much or too little of the hormone. Both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism can make it harder for you to get pregnant. This is because problems with the thyroid hormone can upset the balance of the hormones that cause ovulation. Hypothyroidism can also cause your body to make more prolactin, the hormone that tells your body to make breastmilk.
Imbalance in production of thyroid hormones arises from dysfunction of the thyroid gland itself, the pituitary gland, which produces thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), or the hypothalamus, which regulates the pituitary gland via thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). A thyroid disease is a medical condition impairing the function of the thyroid. Different thyroid diseases include Hashimoto's thyroiditis, hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. These diseases have a large range of symptoms and affect all ages
Thyroid Disease Symptoms and Signs. Thyroid disease is a common problem that can cause symptoms because of over-or under-function of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is an essential organ for producing thyroid hormones, which maintain are body metabolism. The thyroid gland is located in the front of the neck below the Adam's apple. 
Problems with the thyroid include overactive thyroid, or hyperthyroidism, and underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism. The thyroid gland in the neck makes hormones to help regulate the body's metabolism and a person's growth. All types of hyperthyroidism are due to overproduction of thyroid hormones, but the condition can develop in several ways: Graves' disease. This is an auto-immune condition and is the commonest cause of an overactive thyroid gland.