It takes 21 days on average for an egg to hatch once incubation begins. Before placing the eggs inside, turn on the heat source and measure the temperature and humidity over a 24-hour period, making adjustments as necessary to create the optimal environment. Temperature: The eggs need to be kept at 99.5 degrees at all times; just one degree higher or lower for a few hours can terminate the embryo. Humidity: 40 to 50 percent humidity must be maintained for the first 18 days; 65 to 75 percent humidity is needed for the final days before hatching.
Eggs may be collected and stored for up to seven days before incubating, longer than this and your hatch results will start to deteriorate. Make sure that you turn the eggs at least once per day while in storage to keep the embryo from dying. The eggs should be kept at room temperature for best results. During the last 2-3 days of incubation the eggs no longer need to be turned but they will require extra humidity. Each type of incubator will have suggestions as to how to increase the humidity at this time. Usually this involves closing air vents and adding more water to the incubator.
Also, do not soak the eggs in water. If the egg is allowed to soak in water for a period of time, the temperature difference can equalize and bacteria has a greater chance of entering through the pores. Be sure eggs are dry before storing. Humidity should be 60-65% (80-90° wet bulb) during incubation and 70-75% (92-97° wet bulb) at hatching time. It is very easy to overheat the eggs in still-air incubators and difficult to maintain proper humidity.
Incubating Eggs. Up until the last 2-3 days of incubation, eggs will require a constant temperature and humidity. They will also need to be turned a minimum of twice a day and preferably three or five times a day. During the last 2-3 days of incubation the eggs no longer need to be turned but they will require extra humidity. Each type of incubator will have suggestions as to how to increase the humidity at this time. Usually this involves closing air vents and adding more water to the incubator.
Table: ideal temperature and humidity values depend on the number of days the eggs are stored. It is not advisable to store eggs above 21°C as this can also lead to increased bacterial growth on the eggs’ surface. Storage longer than 7 days will lead to greater early embryonic mortality due to cell death. Upon arrival at the hatchery, eggs are stored for a number of days before incubation starts. This period of time can vary considerably between 0 to 20 or more days.
When handling quail eggs make sure that hands are washed to avoid bacterial contamination. Before incubation, quail eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. When storing quail eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 13-18 degrees Celsius or 55-65 degrees Fahrenheit. Do not store the quail eggs at ordinary room temperature or in a refrigerator. Avoid placing the quail eggs in a draft when in storage before incubation. Store quail eggs with the small end facing down. Try to keep the quail eggs at the correct humidity prior to incubation which is a humidity of 84-88%. Make sure the stored quail eggs are turned twice daily before they are incubated. Keep the stored quail eggs in an egg carton and prop up one end at a 35 degree angle. Hope this information helps. 
Therefore, do not store eggs more than 7 days before incubating. After 3 weeks of storage, hatchability drops to almost zero. Plan ahead and have a regular hatching schedule to avoid storage problems and reduced hatches. Allow cool eggs to warm slowly to room temperature before placing in the incubator. When hatching, the humidity is increased to 65% relative humidity or more. An excellent method to determine correct humidity is to candle the eggs at various stages of incubation. The normal size of the air cell after 7, 14, and 18 days of incubation for a chicken egg is shown.
1 Humidity The best humidity level at which to store eggs is between 75 to 85% RH to avoid significant drying out of the egg before incubation. 2  Time in Storage It is generally considered that eggs should not be kept for more than 7 days prior to incubation. 3  Beyond this time chances of hatchability decrease considerably. 1 Collection of Eggs Generally the best time to collect eggs is before 9am, and to check again at lunchtime. 2  Eggs left in the nest for much longer than 24 hours tend to be poor hatchers. 3  Egg Shape, Shell Texture and Quality Some naturally misshaped eggs have lower than expected hatch rates.
Turning. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position. 