Like beans, peas are a good source for carbohydrates, and digest slowly, making them a good food source for individuals who can't process sugar well. Peas have an abundance of vitamin K, manganese, vitamin C and provide high levels of dietary fiber. 1 They are grouped into two categories: simple and complex. 2  Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 3  Complex carbohydrates are foods made up of three or more linked sugars like bran, potatoes, brown rice, peas and whole grain cereals.
You’ve probably heard of the term, “good carbs versus bad carbs” and all that really equates to is non-refined carbs versus refined carbs. Non-refined carbs are foods that contain a complete source of carbohydrates that include natural sugars and more importantly-fiber. Refined carbs are foods like white bread, enriched flour and sugar which have been highly processed to the point that little to no nutrition remains.
Foods with carbohydrate are the best source of energy and can be found in several of the food groups. In the dairy group, milk and yogurt contain carbohydrate (12-15 grams/serving) as well as protein to help provide sustained energy. In the protein foods group, beans contain both carbohydrate and protein. In the grains group, all of the foods contain carbohydrate (15 grams/serving) and many have an added benefit of being a good source of fiber to help you feel full longer.
Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health
Nuts, Seeds, Fruits and Vegetables. Nuts and seeds are another source of both protein and carbohydrates. Walnuts, pecans, almonds, sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds contribute lower-quality protein that, in combination with either legumes or whole grains, offer a complete protein. Nuts and seeds also add carbohydrates and unsaturated fats to your diet. Legumes and grains supply both protein and carbohydrates. Along with fat, protein and carbohydrates are nutrients that provide calories to your diet and fuel your body’s processes. Protein also contributes to muscle growth, tissue repair, immune health, hormone production and enzyme synthesis.
Lowfat milk-based foods such as yogurt are very rich sources of carbohydrate. A six-ounce serving of lowfat blueberry yogurt supplies 26 grams of carbs. Lowfat yogurt is a better choice before and immediately after exercise because it has a higher glycemic index, so the carbs go to work quickly. Immediately before, during, and after exercise, fast-acting high-glycemic carbs are best. At all other times, your carbs should come from low-glycemic foods that provide longer-lasting energy and are packed with lots of other nutrition. The following are the top 10 carbohydrate sources for runners.
Whole Wheat Bread. Whole wheat bread, and other breads made from 100 percent whole wheat grains are another good source for healthy carbohydrates. Unlike white bread, whole wheat bread still contains the bran and germ of the grains, which is where a majority of the nutrients in bread can be found. 1 They are grouped into two categories: simple and complex. 2  Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 3  Complex carbohydrates are foods made up of three or more linked sugars like bran, potatoes, brown rice, peas and whole grain cereals.
1 Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 2  Complex carbohydrates are foods made up of three or more linked sugars like bran, potatoes, brown rice, peas and whole grain cereals. 3  They are broken down and are turned into glucose to be used as a source of energy for cells. 1 They are grouped into two categories: simple and complex. 2  Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 3
Red meat, for example, gives you iron, while fish supplies heart-healthy fats. Milk and milk products offer calcium, and these foods are also a source of carbohydrate due to their lactose, or milk sugar, content. Other animal sources of protein include poultry and eggs. Legumes and grains supply both protein and carbohydrates. Along with fat, protein and carbohydrates are nutrients that provide calories to your diet and fuel your body’s processes. Protein also contributes to muscle growth, tissue repair, immune health, hormone production and enzyme synthesis.
Top 5 Sources of Good Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are the body's main source of energy. In recent years, carbs have gotten a bad reputation as the macronutrient that causes weight gain. The slightest hint of eating carbs while on a diet conjures up lectures from gym nutritionists about the benefits of going low carb. Foods rich in [good] carbohydrates have many health benefits including: lower cholesterol, reduced risk of heart disease/cancer and help with weight loss. 1. Fruits. Fruits are rich in nutrients such as fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.