An ecosystem is the complex of living organisms, their physical environment, and all their interrelationships in a particular unit of space. A food chain in which the primary consumer feeds on living plants is called a grazing pathway; that in which the primary consumer feeds on dead plant matter is known as a detritus pathway. Both pathways are important in accounting for the energy budget of the ecosystem.
What is an Ecosystem? An ecosystem includes all of the living things (plants, animals and organisms) in a given area, interacting with each other, and also with their non-living environments (weather, earth, sun, soil, climate, atmosphere). In an ecosystem, each organism has its' own niche, or role to play.
Tell us and you could Win a Samsung Tablet. Biodiversity is the variety of all living things; the different plants, animals and micro organisms, the genetic information they contain and the ecosystems they form. Biodiversity is usually explored at three levels-genetic diversity, species diversity and ecosystem diversity. An ecosystem is a community of organisms and their physical environment interacting together. An ecosystem may be as large as the Great Barrier Reef or as small as the back of a spider crab's shell, which provides a home for plants and other animals, such as sponges, algae and worms.
A balanced aquarium is an example of a very small ecosystem. It is self-supporting because the requirements for a stable ecosystem are present: ENERGY (1) is supplied to the ecosystem by light. There are PLANTS (2) to change the light energy into the organic molecule of energy (glucose). RECYCLING (3) of materials occurs during photosynthesis and respiration. During photosynthesis, plants use light energy and carbon dioxide to form glucose. 
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Karthick kannan. Confidence votes 1. ecosystem is a smaller unit of earth,all ecosystems together form earth.the food webs to gether form a ecosystem. 
Ecosystems have an atmosphere, soil, light, heat, water and living  organisms. The living organisms in an ecosystem can include plants,  animals or both.it is formed by livi … ng non living thing. All ecosystems must have a producer. A producer is a plant that can make its own energy (autotrophic). Th … en, primary consumers eat the producer, taking 10% of the energy produced in the previous organism for itself. This is a small ecosystem, but an ecosystem nonetheless.
Actually, in many cases the food chains of the ecosystem overlap and interconnect, forming what ecologists call a food web. The final link in all food chains is made up of decomposers, those heterotrophs that break down dead organisms and organic wastes. A food chain in which the primary consumer feeds on living plants is called a grazing pathway; that in which the primary consumer feeds on dead plant matter is known as a detritus pathway. Both pathways are important in accounting for the energy budget of the ecosystem.
Rocks and the Rock Cycle. 1  Metamorphic Rocks-Metamorphic rocks are formed by great heat and pressure. 2  They are generally found inside the Earth's crust where there is enough heat and pressure to form the rocks. 3  Metamorphic rocks are often made from other types of rock. 1 They are generally found inside the Earth's crust where there is enough heat and pressure to form the rocks. 2  Metamorphic rocks are often made from other types of rock. 3  For example, shale, a sedimentary rock, can be changed, or metamorphosed, into a metamorphic rock such as slate or gneiss.
The Earth is a planet, not an ecosystem. An ecosystem is an area in which the plants and animals all interact to create a living environment. Therefore there are many ecosys … tems on the Earth, which all together form what is called a biosphere. 1 person found this useful. All ecosystems must have a producer. A producer is a plant that can make its own energy (autotrophic). Th … en, primary consumers eat the producer, taking 10% of the energy produced in the previous organism for itself. This is a small ecosystem, but an ecosystem nonetheless.