Thus if you take a normal heart at rest that's innervated by both sympathetic and parasympathetic systems, and then sever the vagus nerve, you lose the parasympathetic input to the heart, while leaving the sympathetic input intact. The result is that the resting heart rate increases, to something closer to 100 bpm. The vagus never innervates the heart and affects the SA node. Otto Loewi discovered that the vagus nerve through the action of Ach (a neurotransmitter) slowed the heart. … So the vagus nerve can slow the action (or beating) of
Etymology: L, vagus, wandering, temnein, to cut. the cutting of certain branches of the vagus nerve, performed with gastric surgery, to reduce the amount of gastric acid secreted and lessen the chance of recurrence of a gastric ulcer. With the patient under general anesthesia, a gastrectomy is performed, and the appropriate branches of the vagus nerve are excised. vagotomy. interruption of the impulses carried by the vagus nerve or nerves; so called because it was first performed by surgical methods. The surgical procedure is done as part of the treatment of gastric or duodenal ulcer and often is performed in combination with gastroenterostomy or partial gastrectomy.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: B. The heart rate would increase The vagus nerve carries important information to the heart from a part of the central nervous system called the parasympathetic nervous system. The parasympathetic nervous system is often considered the rest and digest system
The vagus nerve releases the neurotransmitter, aceytlcholine, that slows down the heart rate. It is not the nerve impulses per se that do this, rather it is the the rele … ase of transmitter and it's interaction with post-synaptic receptors that have this effect. 4 people found this useful. The vagus never innervates the heart and affects the SA node. Otto Loewi discovered that the vagus nerve through the action of Ach (a neurotransmitter) slowed the heart. … So the vagus nerve can slow the action (or beating) of
The vagus nerve is used to regulate the heartbeat and the muscle movement necessary to keep you breathing. This nerve also regulates the chemical levels in the digestive system so that the intestines can process food and keep track of what types of nutrients are being gained from the food that is taken in. 
There will also be an increase in blood pressure. This is because the vagus nerve provides parasympathetic support to the cardiovascular system. slide 3 of 4. The muscles of the esophagus will lose their tone and this can create a problem with food entering the esophagus if the vagus nerve is damaged. Introduction to the Vagus Nerve. The vagus nerve is the paired tenth cranial nerve that branches out from the brain and supplies parts of the gastrointestinal system such as the stomach, and parts of the respiratory system such as the lungs. To supply vital organs, it has further to travel than the other cranial nerves
Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve, called vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), is sometimes used to treat people with epilepsy or depression. The vagus nerve is involved in one of the most common causes of fainting, called vasovagal syncope. This is an overreaction of the body to certain stimuli, like the sight of blood, which involves the stimulation of the vagus nerve. This stimulation causes a drop in blood pressure and heart rate. Less blood flows to brain, resulting in loss of consciousness. 
Answer: Since the vagus nerve is parasympathetic is action.  When the nerve is stimulated, the following actions occur at the  myocardium:    1. The heart rate and t … he force of heart contraction slows down.   2. It leads to conronary vasoconstriction.   3. The vagus never innervates the heart and affects the SA node. Otto Loewi discovered that the vagus nerve through the action of Ach (a neurotransmitter) slowed the heart. … So the vagus nerve can slow the action (or beating) of