1 Usually by the age of 18, a child's height is double of their height when they are 2 years old. 2  Normally babies triple their birth-weight by the end of their first year. 1 By the age of 8 to 9 a child attains 75% of their adult height. 2  It is important to keep track of the growth of your child. 3  Early detection of an anomaly can help parents in taking corrective measures.
Charts below are derived from the guidelines and growth charts provided by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO) and they will focus on providing an average weight range as well as normal range of height and weight for kids in different age groups, both girls and boys. 
1 In the first year your newborn baby will on average gain 8 ounces in weight each month and have an average growth of around 1/4 to 1/2 inch a month. 2  From birth to the childs first birthday their weight will have tripled. 1 Be aware that Height and weight ratio charts are not truly accurate measures or indicators, this is especially so for young children and teenagers. 2  The average height to weight chart for girls and boys below represents a very rough average that should also be used in conjunction with the BMI Calculator for Kids.
Our easy to read height to weight ratio charts, that cover newborn babies to teenage girls and boys, will give you a rough idea of whether you are of average weight for your age and height without using complicated percentile graphs. 1 Be aware that Height and weight ratio charts are not truly accurate measures or indicators, this is especially so for young children and teenagers. 2  The average height to weight chart for girls and boys below represents a very rough average that should also be used in conjunction with the BMI Calculator for Kids.
If you don't enter or don't know the birth parent's height, we'll use the CDC's average height for a man or woman. Predicted heights are usually within 4 inches, taller or shorter, than actual adult height. Medical conditions and other factors can affect a child's growth. Estimates are less accurate when parent heights are far from average and for children who are short for their age. 
Your child's size and growth timeline. Lots of parents wonder whether their child is bigger or smaller than other kids the same age. To give you a benchmark, here are the values from the 25th percentile to the 75th percentile for weight and height – meaning that half of kids fall within these ranges. A quarter of kids fall above these numbers and a quarter of kids below them.
1 Dieting for teens is not recommended as quite often you will find they will simply grow out or their baby fat as they mature into young adults. 2  In the first year your newborn baby will on average gain 8 ounces in weight each month and have an average growth of around 1/4 to 1/2 inch a month. 1 Be aware that Height and weight ratio charts are not truly accurate measures or indicators, this is especially so for young children and teenagers. 2  The average height to weight chart for girls and boys below represents a very rough average that should also be used in conjunction with the BMI Calculator for Kids.
Birth. The average newborn is 19.5 inches long and weighs 7.25 pounds. Boys have a head circumference of about 13.5 inches and girls measure in at 13.3 inches, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. 1  Baby Growth Charts: Calculate Height and Weight. 2  Charting Baby's Development. Ages 5+. Kids will grow about 2 inches and gain 4 pounds each year until puberty (usually between 8 and 13 for girls and 10 and 14 for boys). Girls often reach their full height about two years after their first period. Boys usually hit their adult height around age 17.
Interesting Facts About Child's Height and Weight: 1  By the age of 8 to 9 a child attains 75% of their adult height. 2  It is important to keep track of the growth of your child. 3  Early detection of an anomaly can help parents in taking corrective measures. 1
Interesting Facts About Child's Height and Weight: 1  By the age of 8 to 9 a child attains 75% of their adult height. 2  Usually by the age of 18, a child's height is double of their height when they are 2 years old. 3  Normally babies triple their birth-weight by the end of their first year. 1 By the age of 8 to 9 a child attains 75% of their adult height. 2  It is important to keep track of the growth of your child. 3  Early detection of an anomaly can help parents in taking corrective measures.