A symbol of the Arctic, polar bears are the world’s largest land predator and biggest member of the bear family. With heavy fur, blubber up to four inches thick and black skin that absorbs heat from the sun, polar bears are amazingly well adapted to the Arctic climate. 
Complete facts and information on polar bears, including size, feeding habits, cubs, snow dens, adaptations to the Arctic, and population status. © Daniel J. Cox/Natural Exposures. Complete facts and information on polar bears, including size, feeding habits, cubs, snow dens, adaptations to the Arctic, and population status. Plus gorgeous photos, videos, and fun educational materials.
Polar bear habitat. The polar bear's Latin name, Ursus maritimus, means 'sea bear-an apt name for this amazing species which spends much of its life in, around, or on the ocean. Polar bears are found throughout the circumpolar Arctic. They're frequently seen along or near coasts and on islands, but they spend the majority of their lives on the sea ice. Sea ice is vital to polar bears. It provides a platform for them to hunt, live, breed, and in some cases, create maternal dens
The polar bear (Ursus maritimus) is a carnivorous bear whose native range lies largely within the Arctic Circle, encompassing the Arctic Ocean, its surrounding seas and surrounding land masses. It is a large bear, approximately the same size as the omnivorous Kodiak bear (Ursus arctos middendorffi). The polar bear is classified as a vulnerable species, with eight of the nineteen polar bear subpopulations in decline. For decades, large scale hunting raised international concern for the future of the species but populations rebounded after controls and quotas began to take effect.
Global Warming and Polar Bears. The chief threat to the polar bear is the loss of its sea ice habitat due to global warming. As suggested by its specific scientific name (Ursus maritimus), the polar bear is actually a marine mammal that spends far more time at sea than it does on land. 
Polar Bear Habitat and Distribution. You will find that the natural habitat for the Polar Bear is in the very cold areas of the world. They live in the Arctic region where the temperatures are low, the water is cold, and they are able to move around on thick sheets of ice. Polar bears have a very wide range that they roam in these areas that they reside in. It is believed that they have more of a range than any other large sized carnivore in the world. There are plenty of Polar Bears out there in zoos around the world as well. They seem to do quite well in captivity.
Polar bear habitat. The preferred habitat of the polar bear is the annual ice near the coastlines of continents and islands, where there are large numbers of ringed seals (Phoca hispida), on which these bears feed. 
Polar bears are the largest land carnivores in the world, rivaled only by the Kodiak brown bears of southwestern Alaska. Polar bears are marine mammals, and spend much of their time on Arctic sea ice. Many adaptations make polar bears uniquely suited to life in icy habitats. Polar bears sit at the top of the food chain in the biologically rich Arctic
The Polar Bear Habitat. The polar bear habitat encompass the entire circumpolar Arctic region. Polar bears have adapted to be able to live in the water and on land. Unlike other bear species, the polar bear are excellent swimmers, and have been spotted more than 100 miles away from land or ice. The polar bear habitat is that of the entire Arctic region. They can be found the cold and at times unforgiving land. Polar bears can be found swimming in the frigid oceans waters, or adrift on ice. The polar bears main habitat is on offshore pack ice, and along costs and island of the Arctic region. Over 40 per cent of all polar bears living today live in Northern Canada, on pack ice and along the shores of the many island there