Intro to Polymers. The term polymer is commonly used today in the plastics and composites industry, and it is often used to imply the meaning of plastic or resin. In actuality, the term polymer means much more. A polymer is chemical compound where molecules are bonded together in long repeating chains. 
It’s actually the other way around: plastic is a form of resin. Natural resins are thick, sticky organic liquids that are insoluble in water. The sap of pine and other coniferous trees, often called pitch, is a resin. The materials we call plastics (polystyrene, ABS, acrylics, polyethylene, etc. ) are synthetic resins in the form of long-chain polymers derived from (usually) petroleum. Acrylic resins (“resin”) are much more durable than celluloid or styrene-based resins (“plastic”). They’re harder and more resistant to heat and the corrosive action of chemicals such as the oils and weak acids that skin produces.
1 With more durable resin material available for only a decade, resins haven't stood the test of time in teeth where grinding and chewing result in heavy wear; by contrast, the durability of amalgam fillings is well documented — the average life span of amalgams is 8 to 10 years, but many last 20 years or more. 
It’s actually the other way around: plastic is a form of resin. Natural resins are thick, sticky organic liquids that are insoluble in water. The sap of pine and other coniferous trees, often called pitch, is a resin. The materials we call plastics (polystyrene, ABS, acrylics, polyethylene, etc. ) are synthetic resins in the form of long-chain polymers derived from (usually) petroleum.
The different types of resin material are plastic resin, polyester resin, polycarbonate resin, casting resin, polymer resin, acrylic resin, chemical resin, and dry resin. Resin is a substance used in lacquers, adhesives, plastics, and epoxies and is known for its translucent properties. Some examples of the products made from plastic resin include soda containers, milk jugs, and prescription pill bottles. Each of these products are made with polyethylene resin material, which is a type of plastic resin. Other types of plastic resin include polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polypropylene, and polystyrene.
Once the plastic resins have been formed, they are used to make many different kinds of products. The appropriate type of plastic resin is selected to make the particular type of product needed. Some plastics are filled with products that are hot when packaged, such as those used in some food plants. 10 most extreme places on Earth. Plastic resins are made by heating hydrocarbons in what is known as the cracking process.. The goal here is to break down the larger molecules into ethylene, propylene, and other types of hydrocarbons.
One type of plastic resin, known as polyethylene terephthalate, is used to make products like soft drink bottles, bottles, and waste containers. High-density Polyethylene is used to make milk jugs, bottles for vitamins, and film containers. 10 most extreme places on Earth. Plastic resins are made by heating hydrocarbons in what is known as the cracking process.. The goal here is to break down the larger molecules into ethylene, propylene, and other types of hydrocarbons.
In polymer chemistry and materials science, resin is a solid or highly viscous substance, usually containing prepolymers with reactive groups.. Such viscous substances can be plant derived or synthetic. The word resin has been applied in the modern world to nearly any component of a liquid that will set into a hard lacquer or enamel-like finish. An example is nail polish, a modern product which contains resins that are organic compounds, but not classical plant resins.
Polyester resin is commonly used in the production of glass reinforced plastics, which may be used to create surf boards. One type of resin material is acrylic resin, which is used to make cell phones and other items. Polypropylene resin is widely used to make plastic bottles for milk, soda and other beverages. PVC, used to make lightweight pipes, is a resin material. Some examples of the products made from plastic resin include soda containers, milk jugs, and prescription pill bottles. Each of these products are made with polyethylene resin material, which is a type of plastic resin. Other types of plastic resin include polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polypropylene, and polystyrene.