Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. When there is a problem with the salivary glands or ducts, you may have symptoms such as salivary gland swelling, dry mouth, pain, fever, and foul-tasting drainage into the mouth.
n. A gland that secretes saliva, especially any of three pairs of glands, the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual, that discharge secretions into the oral cavity of humans and most other mammals. saliva, spittle, spit-a clear liquid secreted into the mouth by the salivary glands and mucous glands of the mouth; moistens the mouth and starts the digestion of starches. parotid gland-a large salivary gland that produces 50% of daytime saliva; in human beings it is located in front of and below each ear.
Medical Definition of SALIVARY. : of or relating to saliva or the glands that secrete it; especially: producing or carrying saliva. See salivary defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Salivary Glands. Glands that secrete SALIVA in the MOUTH. There are three pairs of salivary glands (PAROTID GLAND; SUBLINGUAL GLAND; SUBMANDIBULAR GLAND). Salivary Gland Neoplasms. Tumors or cancer of the SALIVARY GLANDS. 
Salivary Mucocele in Dogs. An oral or salivary mucocele refers to a swelling of the soft connective tissues in the dog's mouth. The swelling appears like mucus-filled sack, and is more than three times as likely to form in dogs than in cats. However, all dog breeds are susceptible to oral and salivary mucoceles. 
salivary gland. any of the glands around the mouth that secrete saliva. The major ones are the three pairs known as the parotid, mandibular or submandibular and sublingual glands. There are other smaller salivary glands within the cheeks, e.g. zygomatic gland, and in the tongue. Salivary glands in the dog. A exocrine gland that secretes saliva, especially any of major salivary glands or minor salivary glands. any one of three pairs of glands secreting into the mouth, thus aiding the digestive process.
1. salivary gland-any of three pairs of glands in the mouth and digestive system that secrete saliva for digestion. mouth, oral cavity, oral fissure, rima oris-the opening through which food is taken in and vocalizations emerge; he stuffed his mouth with candy. saliva, spittle, spit-a clear liquid secreted into the mouth by the salivary glands and mucous glands of the mouth; moistens the mouth and starts the digestion of starches. parotid gland-a large salivary gland that produces 50% of daytime saliva; in human beings it is located in front of and below each ear.
saccular gland one consisting of a sac or sacs, lined with glandular epithelium. salivary glands glands of the oral cavity whose combined secretion constitutes the saliva, including the parotid, sublingual, and submandibular glands and numerous small glands in the tongue, lips, cheeks, and palate. Salivary glands. 
The parotid glands are a pair of major salivary glands wrapped around the mandibular ramus in humans. The largest of the salivary glands, they secrete saliva to facilitate mastication and swallowing and to begin the digestion of starches. It is the serous type of gland which secretes the ptyalin. It enters the oral cavity via the parotid duct or Stensen duct.
The salivary glands in mammals are exocrine glands, glands with ducts, that produce saliva. They also secrete amylase, an enzyme that breaks down starch into maltose. The largest of the salivary glands, they secrete saliva to facilitate mastication and swallowing and to begin the digestion of starches. It is the serous type of gland which secretes the ptyalin. It enters the oral cavity via the parotid duct or Stensen duct.