Anion gap: A measurement of the interval between the sum of routinely measured cations minus the sum of the routinely measured anions in the blood. The anion gap = (Na+ + K+) - (Cl- + HCO3-) where Na-is sodium, K+ is potassium, Cl-is chloride, and HCO3- is bicarbonate. The anion gap can be normal, high, or low. A high anion gap indicated metabolic acidosis, the increased acidity of the blood due to metabolic processes. A low anion gap is relatively rare but may occur from the presence of abnormal positively charged proteins, as in multiple myeloma. 
Anions are electrons that have a negative charge. They differ from cations which have a positive charge. In medical terms, the anion gap is the difference between the amount of anions and cations in a person's blood. The anion gap may be high, normal or low. This difference may be caused by diabetes or by a condition known as acidosis.
1. Anion gap (AG or AGAP) is a value calculated using the results of an electrolyte panel. It is used to help distinguish between anion-gap and non-anion-gap metabolic acidosis. Acidosis refers to an excess of acid in the body; this can disturb many cell functions and should be recognized as quickly as possible, when present. If anion-gap metabolic acidosis is identified, the AG may be used to help monitor the effectiveness of treatment and the underlying condition. Specifically, the anion gap evaluates the difference between measured and unmeasured electrical particles (ions or electrolytes) in the fluid portion of the blood.
gap. an opening or hiatus. anion gap the concentration of plasma anions not routinely measured by laboratory screening, accounting for the difference between the routinely measured anions and cations and equal to the plasma sodium − (chloride + bicarbonate); used in the evaluation of acid-base disorders. anion gap, the difference between the concentrations of serum or plasma cations and anions, determined by measuring the concentrations of sodium cations and chloride and bicarbonate anions.
Too high of an. anion gap level can mean that there is acidosis (too much acid in the blood) due to diabetes mellitus. The high anion gap level can also be due to lactic acidosis, in which the high level of acid is due a. buildup of a substance called lactic acid. The anion gap measurement is taken from the blood serum or blood plasma. Blood serum is the clear, thin, and sticky fluid part of the blood that remains after the blood has changed from a liquid into a solid.
The anion gap is the difference in the measured cations (positively charged ions) and the measured anions (negatively charged ions) in serum, plasma, or urine. The anion gap is affected by changes in unmeasured ions. A high anion gap indicates acidosis. In uncontrolled diabetes, there is an increase in ketoacids due to metabolism of ketones. Ketoacids are unmeasured anions, so there is a resulting increase in the anion gap
Serum anion gap = (Na + K) - (Cl + HCO3). Commonly, a simpler formula is used, as sodium is the most dominant cation in the equation below (see also the Anion Gap calculator). Serum anion gap = Na - (Cl + HCO3). The anion gap can also be used to differentiate cations and anions in urine using the following equation. See the Anion Gap calculator. The reference range of the anion gap is 3-11 mEq/L. The normal value for the serum anion gap is 8-16 mEq/L. However, there are always unmeasurable anions, so an anion gap of less than 11 mEq/L using any of the equations listed in Description is considered normal.
Best Answer: The Anion Gap is increased when there are excessive anions/acids in the blood. This is either from too much acid production or insufficient removal of acids (either through the lungs, stomach, or kidneys). 