The UCCB was increased to $160 per month for each child under the age of six. The UCCB was expanded to children aged 6 through 17. Parents will receive a benefit of up to $60 per month for each child in their care aged 6 through 17. To receive the UCCB, you must meet the following conditions: 1  You must live with the child, and the child must be under the age of 18.
report all the UCCB income in the taxpayer's own income (line 117 of the tax return), or. report all the UCCB income in the income of a dependent for whom the eligible dependent (line 305, aka equivalent to spouse) is being claimed. If the eligible dependent amount is not being claimed, all of the UCCB income can be reported in the income of a child for whom the UCCB was received. In this case, the taxpayer will report the UCCB amount on line 185, below and to the left of line 117 on the tax return. Line 117 should remain blank. 
Tips for Claiming UCCB Payments. The universal child care benefit is paid to any Canadian family with pre-school children under the age of 6, says St. Thomas, Ontario, investment advisor Mallory Saugeen. There are no limits imposed by your family's income. UCCB payments. You can apply for the UCCB when your child is born, or when your child under 6 years old comes to live with you, says Saugeen. The benefit is completely up to you. You're not required to apply, and you can have payments stopped if you don't want to receive it any more..
The Universal Child Care Benefit, or UCCB, is given to Canadian taxpayers with young children to help them with the work-life balance and also to help with the cost of raising a child. It is given to parents of children under 6, says John Gillani, a Calgary, Alberta-based certified management accountant. If you already signed up to receive the Canada child tax benefit, you generally do not need to apply for the UCCB, because your enrollment is automatic. If not, you can submit a form RC66, child benefits application, or apply for child benefits online, on the CRA's website, using the My Account service.
Eligibility and Applying. UCCB is not based on income. For each child under age 6 you have, you will receive a payment of $100 per month, regardless of income. The only stipulations are that you live with your child and are the primary caretaker. You must also be a Canadian citizen. If you already signed up to receive the Canada child tax benefit, you generally do not need to apply for the UCCB, because your enrollment is automatic. If not, you can submit a form RC66, child benefits application, or apply for child benefits online, on the CRA's website, using the My Account service.
Generally, when you invest your money in your child’s name, you have to report the income from those investments. However, if you deposited Canada Child Tax Benefit or Universal Child Care Benefit payments into a bank account or trust in your child’s name, the interest earned on those payments is your child’s income. 
Line 117 - Universal child care benefit (UCCB). If you had a spouse or common-law partner on December 31, 2014, the one of you with the lower net income must report the UCCB. Report on line 117 the amount shown in box 10 of the RC62 slip. Lump-sum benefits-If you received the UCCB in 2014 as a lump-sum, parts of which were for a previous year, you must report the full payment in 2014. Read the instructions above on how to report this income.
Written by Tom Drake • 17 Comments. The Universal Child Care Benefit, or UCCB, is a $100 taxable monthly payment to help with the cost of raising children under six years old. This can be a great way to receive a little extra cash each month, and since you are entitled to it, it can be worth it to take advantage. To be eligible for the Universal Child Care Benefit, you must be the primary care giver of a child under the age of six and a resident of Canada. If you already receive the Canada Child Tax Benefit (CCTB) then you are automatically set to receive the UCCB.