The call note of the goldfinch sounds like dear me, dear me. They are also called catnip bird, beet bird, lettuce bird, salad bird and thistle bird because they eat those seeds. Other names include wild canary, willow goldfinch and yellowbird. Accidents can happen to goldfinches. They have been caught on the hooked burrs of burdock and could not escape. While its true that the goldfinch enjoys thistle seeds, there is nothing sad about this beautiful, colourful little bird. Goldfinches are between 11 and 14 centimetres (4 1/2 to 5 1/2 inches) long and weigh from 11.8 to 13.3 grams (1/3 to 1/2 ounce).
The only finch in its subfamily to undergo a complete molt, the American goldfinch displays sexual dimorphism in its coloration; the male is a vibrant yellow in the summer and an olive color during the winter, while the female is a dull yellow-brown shade which brightens only slightly during the summer. The American goldfinch is a small finch, 11–14 cm (4.3–5.5 in) long, with a wingspan of 19–22 cm (7.5–8.7 in). It weighs between 11–20 g (0.39–0.71 oz).
General Description. The American Goldfinch is the state bird of Washington. It is common throughout the lowlands of Washington, often coming to bird feeders. The male in breeding plumage is bright yellow with a black forehead, wings, and tail. He has one white wing-bar on each wing and white on his tail
The American goldfinch is a granivore and adapted for the consumption of seedheads, with a conical beak to remove the seeds and agile feet to grip the stems of seedheads while feeding. It is a social bird, and will gather in large flocks while feeding and migrating. The American goldfinch is a small finch, 11–14 cm (4.3–5.5 in) long, with a wingspan of 19–22 cm (7.5–8.7 in). It weighs between 11–20 g (0.39–0.71 oz).
read more read less. A highly coloured finch with a bright red face and yellow wing patch. Sociable, often breeding in loose colonies, they have a delightful liquid twittering song and call. Listen to these clips. CATEGORY: ANIMALS/NATURE. #TAGS: Goldfinch Sounds, Goldfinch, Goldfinch Sound, Goldfinch clips, Goldfinch call. RIGHTS: PERSONAL. 
The American goldfinch was one of the many species originally described by Linnaeus in the landmark 1758 10th edition of his work Systema Naturae. It was initially included in the genus Spinus, a group containing New World goldfinches and siskins, but in 1976, Spinus was merged into the genus Carduelis as a subgenus. The American goldfinch is a small finch, 11–14 cm (4.3–5.5 in) long, with a wingspan of 19–22 cm (7.5–8.7 in). It weighs between 11–20 g (0.39–0.71 oz).
Answer by 1birdman. Confidence votes 622. The American Goldfinch is bright yellow showing a black crown, wings, and tail. Its rump and wingbars have been left white. The female, as is non-breeding the male, are olive-brown on top; and buff-gray on the bottom; the wings and tail are black and the wingbars are white. 
Bird Sounds: American Goldfinch. Listen to the bird sounds of the American Goldfinch. Click play button. Compliments of The Macaulay Library at The Cornell Lab of Ornithology. See what species have been spotted in your area on the interactive maps at Ebird.com.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Great Audio of a American Goldfinch siting at feeder calling for attention then stick around to hear the call in flight also listen to the other bird around and see if you can identify them. 1  Pets & Animals