In Dutch, the van is not a middle name. It's called a  voor voegsel, a word for which I find no satisfactory English translation*. The van means from or of, and it appears in a significant minority of Dutch names. 428 Views. The Dutch word Van means of in English. It is used to mention a person's hometown, ancestral profession or something they are related to. For Eg: In the name Abe van Bakker (literally means :Abe of Baker) Van is used to mention that he is a baker.........
Look up van in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. van is a preposition in the Dutch and Afrikaans languages, meaning  of  or  from . It is also a common prefix in Dutch language surnames (being known as a tussenvoegsel), as in Vincent van Gogh or Marco van Basten. The German  von  is a cognate of Dutch van, though unlike the German von, the Dutch van is not always an indication of nobility or royalty. The Dutch word van can both imply nobility (William of Orange) or another relation to a geographic place (toponym); e.g. place of birth (John from Delft)
Van /van/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used more regularly as boys' name Van) is pronounced van. It is of Danish origin, and the meaning of Van is of. The Dutch equivalent of de in French names. When some early immigrants to America dropped this prefix from their surnames, they converted it to a given name. Van is also used as a short form of Vanessa. Affiliated girl name: Vanna.
Van /van/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less widely as girls' name Van) is pronounced van. It is of Danish origin, and the meaning of Van is of. Equivalent of de in French names. Also a nickname for Evan. Van was sometimes converted from a surname prefix to a given name by early immigrants to America. 
[ 1 syll. van, va-n ] The baby boy name Van is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is VaeN †. Van is used chiefly in the English language, and its origin is Celtic and Old English. The name is of debated origin; it could have first developed from Vance or Ivan. As a surname prefix, it means 'of' or 'from' in Dutch. In addition, Van is a variant of the name Donovan (English and Irish) in the English language. 
Origin of the name Van: Derived from the English surname Van. It is from the Middle English vanne and the Middle French van, words denoting a type of old winnowing machine. Alternatively, the name can be a borrowing of the Dutch Van, an element in family names which means of, from and indicates place of origin. Var: Vann. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Dutch Meaning: The name Van is a Dutch baby name. In Dutch the meaning of the name Van is: Equivalent of 'de' in French names. Van was sometimes converted from a surname prefix to a given name by early immigrants to America. American Meaning: The name Van is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Van is: Equivalent of 'de' in French names. Van was sometimes converted from a surname prefix to a given name by early immigrants to America.