If the asset is tangible, this is called depreciation. If the asset is intangible; for example, a patent or goodwill; it's called amortization. To depreciate means to lose value and to amortize means to write off costs (or pay debt) over a period of time.
The amortization of intangibles involves the consistent reduction in the recorded value of an intangible asset over time. Amortization refers to the write-off of an asset over its expected period of use (useful life). Intangible assets do not have physical substance. Examples of intangible assets are: 1  Copyrights. 2  Customer lists. 3  Government licenses
DEFINITION of 'Amortization'. 1. The paying off of debt with a fixed repayment schedule in regular installments over a period of time. Consumers are most likely to encounter amortization with a mortgage or car loan. 2. The spreading out of capital expenses for intangible assets over a specific period of time (usually over the asset's useful life) for accounting and tax purposes. Amortization is similar to depreciation, which is used for tangible assets, and to depletion, which is used with natural resources. 
Under ยง197 most acquired intangible assets are to be amortized ratably over a 15-year period. If an intangible is not eligible for amortization under ยง 197, the taxpayer can depreciate the asset if there is a showing of the assets useful life. If the asset is intangible; for example, a patent or goodwill; it's called amortization. To depreciate means to lose value and to amortize means to write off costs (or pay debt) over a period of time.
DEFINITION of 'Amortization Of Intangibles'. A tax term relating to the practice of deducting the cost of an investment in a qualifying non-tangible asset over the projected life of the asset. The cost basis of the qualifying intangible asset is amortized over a 15-year period, irrespective of the actual useful life of the asset. In the year the asset is acquired and sold, the amount of amortization deductible for tax purposes is prorated on a monthly basis. Intangible amortization is reported on Form 4562.
Amortization is the process of expensing out intangible assets over their useful life. It is in effect the depreciation of intangible assets. Some intangible assets have indefinite or unlimited useful life, such as goodwill. Such assets are not amortized. Others have a definite useful life and are amortized over their useful life. Most of intangible assets are amortized using straight line method. Useful life is the shorter of legal life and economic life.
An amortizeable section 197 intangible is treated as depreciable property; it is not a capital asset. If held for more than one year, it will generally qualify as a section 1231 asset and be subject to the rules of section 1231. Section 197 intangibles (except goodwill and going concern value) are Class VII assets on Form 8594. The amount of the total sales price allocated to a section 197 asset becomes the buyer's basis in the asset. The buyer is allowed to amortize a section 197 intangible over 15 years.
Overview of Intangible Assets. An intangible asset is a non-physical asset that has a useful life of greater than one year. Examples of intangible assets are trademarks, customer lists, motion pictures, franchise agreements, and computer software. More extensive examples of intangible assets are: 1  Artistic assets. The cost of all other intangible assets developed internally should be charged to expense in the period incurred. Amortization of Intangible Assets. If an intangible asset has a finite useful life, you should amortize it over that useful life. The amount to be amortized is its recorded cost, less any residual value. However, intangible assets are usually not considered to have any residual value, so the full amount of the asset is usually amortized