I am a Nutritionist. I actually am graduating in one week with my bachelor's degree in Nutrition and Dietetics :). To be a nutritionist you must have at least a bachelor's degree in nutrition and dietetics. To become a dietician (a registered dietician or R.D.) you have to do an internship after your bachelor's degree that lasts around 9 months. Nutritionists are not licensed by state boards, meaning it is not illegal to advertise yourself as a nutritionist, even if you didn't graduate from high school. Obviously, there are many reputable Bachelor's programs and colleges that offer formal, and, in many cases, quite good degrees in nutrition. However, there is no oversight or regulation of the term nutritionist, nor is there a guarantee of any kind of training when you see one
The credential RD (registered dietitian) is a nationally-recognized, legally protected, professional title and it can only be used by those who are authorized by the CDR. An RD must have a minimum of a bachelor's degree in dietetics, nutrition or nutrition sciences. However, there are certain professionals who are educated and trained to help you navigate the world of food and nutrition. A Registered Dietitian. People are often confused about the difference between a nutritionist and a dietitian, but it is not accurate to use these terms interchangeably.
Nutritionist is not a protected term in the UK, unlike  dietitian ; the latter must be registered with the Health and Care Professions Council, so anybody can claim to be a nutritionist. In the United Kingdom, Australia, parts of Canada and most US states, the term nutritionist is not legally protected, whereas the title of dietitian can be used only by those who have met specified professional requirements.
A nutritionist is a person who advises on matters of food and nutrition impacts on health. In the United Kingdom, Australia, parts of Canada and most US states, the term nutritionist is not legally protected, whereas the title of dietitian can be used only by those who have met specified professional requirements.
A nutritionist usually works in government such as a health department and a Registered Dietician can work in hospitals and makes more money than a nutritionist. Nutritionists are not licensed by state boards, meaning it is not illegal to advertise yourself as a nutritionist, even if you didn't graduate from high school. Obviously, there are many reputable Bachelor's programs and colleges that offer formal, and, in many cases, quite good degrees in nutrition. However, there is no oversight or regulation of the term nutritionist, nor is there a guarantee of any kind of training when you see one
Proper diet is the foundation of good health, from conception through old age. While an understanding of nutrition is a key element of many health careers, dietitians focus exclusively on the impact of food on health. Dietitians are experts in designing nutrition programs to protect health, prevent allergic reactions and alleviate the symptoms of many types of disease. Clinical dietitians provide medical nutrition therapy for patients in institutions such as hospitals and nursing care facilities. They assess patients' nutritional needs, develop and implement nutrition programs, and evaluate and report the results. 