If you want to know how to get rid of arm fat, we can help! It's time to tone up the arms with a great arms workout. All you need is an exercise band! Our first sexy arms exercise is for biceps toning. You've first got to step on the band with both feet, take the band in both hands and curl the biceps. 
Overhead lifts are a great way to tone your arms, particularly the underside of your upper arms. To start, use either two small weights or one large weight. Lift your arms up and bend at the elbow; your elbows should be next to the top of your head and your forearms should be behind your head. Side Lifts. For side lifts, use two small dumbbells or weights. Hold your arms at your side with your fists pressed against your legs. Lift straight out until your arms are even with your shoulders; if you feel pain before you reach that point, either lift to a lower height or use smaller dumbbells.
Regular exercise can also be an effective way to beat cellulite. Aerobic or cardiovascular exercises can work to speed up the metabolism and boost blood flow throughout the body. By improving blood circulation, this kind of exercise also makes it easier for the body to get rid of fat and toxins. Arm strengthening exercises for the bicep and triceps can also improve the way the arms look. Individuals should always keep in mind that fat loss cannot be targeted on one part of the body. 
Push Ups. Push ups are the hallmark of arm toning. Start on the ground with your palms flat on the ground directly below your shoulders. Start on your toes if you can or start on your knees if doing it on your toes is too difficult. Lower yourself to the ground, bending your arms out from your body. Side Lifts. For side lifts, use two small dumbbells or weights. Hold your arms at your side with your fists pressed against your legs. Lift straight out until your arms are even with your shoulders; if you feel pain before you reach that point, either lift to a lower height or use smaller dumbbells.
You can't ignore what you're eating if you're trying to improve your body composition.. Then there's the back-of-the arm muscle lying beneath that fat you're trying to fry. Place your left hand on the back of your right upper arm. The muscle you're feeling is the triceps. 
1. Start dry brushing your skin. Dry brushing improves your circulation and helps your skin get rid of toxins, reducing the appearance of cellulite. Buy a body brush made with natural fibers and make dry brushing a part of your morning routine. 1  Make sure your skin and the brush are both dry before beginning.
Upper arm fat is a common problem area, particularly for women. Extra arm flab can cause you to feel self-conscious, especially during warm weather ideal for sleeveless tops. Excess fat can also lead to health problems such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and some types of cancer. Tone the front of your arms with bicep curls. Stand with a dumbbell in each hand held down by your sides. Turn your wrists to face forward and hold your elbows close to your side. Lift the weights toward your shoulders, then lower to the start position. Do two sets of 12 to 15 repetitions.
0. Fitness Articles. For many women, arm fat is the hardest to get rid of despite lots of exercise and dieting. You can use these five tips to get rid of your arm fat and have the toned arms you’ve always wanted. Side Lifts. For side lifts, use two small dumbbells or weights. Hold your arms at your side with your fists pressed against your legs. Lift straight out until your arms are even with your shoulders; if you feel pain before you reach that point, either lift to a lower height or use smaller dumbbells.
Poor eating habits and lack of activity can cause fat to accumulate at any location, including the upper arms. Cellulite is trapped fat that forms under the skin and causes a dimpled appearance. Although there is no cure for cellulite, there are several steps you can take to reduce it. This involves dietary adjustments and exercises designed to tone up your arms, especially the triceps muscle at the back of the top of your arm. If you are just slightly overweight, losing about 10 pounds of fat all over and toning the triceps will reduce your upper arm cellulite. Step 3. Perform triceps dips with a bench. With your back to the bench, put your hands on the edge of it and your heels on the ground with your legs straight. Lower your body down until your upper arms are parallel to the floor, push yourself back up.