The Process of Dying. For reasons of their own, Western religions do not tell much about death, but after all, death is a very serious matter for all of us just as is birth, and it seems that death should logically follow the chapter about mediums because if no one died, mediums could not try to get in touch with them. Various organs die throughout a day or so. At the end of three days the body is just a lump of decomposing protoplasm, but the body does not matter, it is the immortal soul that matters-the Overself. But let us go back to the instant of clinical death. The body in this case is lying on a bed.
People actually associate pain and death, or if you prefer, death and pain, because in the majority of cases people who are grievously (alvorlig) ill die apparently in pain, but that pain, remember, is not the pain of death but the pain caused by the illness itself. Various organs die throughout a day or so. At the end of three days the body is just a lump of decomposing protoplasm, but the body does not matter, it is the immortal soul that matters-the Overself. But let us go back to the instant of clinical death. The body in this case is lying on a bed.
For the study, 4,703 people, average age 75, were interviewed within the two years prior to their death. If they confirmed they were experiencing pain, they were asked to rate it as mild, moderate or severe. The findings showed that 26% were troubled by pain during the last two years of their lives. Each cause of death involves different processes, some of which we have subjective data from the individual and some that we do not. It is rather difficult to know how much, if any pain is experienced during a rapid traumatic death. The same can be said for natural death.
It is helpful to understand the common symptoms experienced in people who are dying. You may observe none, some, or all of these symptoms in the dying erson’s last days and hours on earth. You will also learn things to do that can help ease physical pain and suffering. 
Brain death is a legal definition of death. It is the complete and irreversible cessation (stopping) of all brain function. It means that, as a result of severe trauma or injury to the brain, the body's blood supply to the brain is blocked, and the brain dies. Brain death is death. It is permanent and irreversible. 
But back to the topic of pain and death. Since a near-death experience, I am not afraid of death. I feel a little apprehensive about how I will die, but that is different. As others have said, the dying person's experience depends a lot upon on their condition, mentally and physically. It is a release. There may be pain associated with the cause of death, depending upon the cause. But death itself is a painless letting go. At the time of death the body produces endorphins which actually produce a feeling of happiness, or even euphoria.
It is painful when the organs stop working. That is why the key to a relatively peaceful death is pain killers. I saw my grandfather die. He too had Alzheimer's and was a very moral and good man. However, as his body shut down and his organs failed, no amount of his good deeds on earth could ameliorate his pain. It is a release. There may be pain associated with the cause of death, depending upon the cause. But death itself is a painless letting go. At the time of death the body produces endorphins which actually produce a feeling of happiness, or even euphoria.
Restless movements (as though in pain). Many people who are dying, and the people around them, worry that they will be in pain. Not everyone dying of cancer has pain. But if they do, it can usually be well controlled and people can be kept very comfortable. The doctors and nurses looking after the dying person will do all they can. There is information about controlling pain in the section about managing your symptoms. Sometimes restlessness is a sign of being in pain. If the dying person can’t communicate very well and you think they are in pain, the most important thing is to tell their doctors and nurses. They will want your relative or friend to be pain free, so do talk to them.
I think it does to hurt to die in the beginning of the process, but once your mind accepts the fact that you are actively dying, that your organs (including your brain) are shutting down, it ignores the pain and it isn't so bad. It is a release. There may be pain associated with the cause of death, depending upon the cause. But death itself is a painless letting go. At the time of death the body produces endorphins which actually produce a feeling of happiness, or even euphoria.
Fear, a potent pain magnifier, is the dominant emotion-fear of pain, fear of death, fear of the unknown. It is commonly believed that people at the end of life fear pain even more than they fear death. Sadly, for many dying patients, pain seems like the ultimate torment, and death is its cure. It does not have to be this way, and if you or a loved one is facing death, you have every right to ask that your final days not be consumed by pain. 