The domesticated turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is a large poultry bird, one of the two species in the genus Meleagris and the same as the wild turkey. It was domesticated by the indigenous peoples of Mesoamerica at least 2,000 years ago, with the evidence pointing to what are today the central regions of Mexico. 
Some are specific, for example: How much range does a turkey cover? .... there are individual turkeys that have been known to live a long life in the wild. | ChaCha Answers. Male wild Turkeys grow to about four feet long, including the tail. If you own wild turkeys and do not wish for them to fly away, their wings need Domestic turkeys bred for food consumption were not bred to live over one year.
HowStuffWorks  Turkey . The wild turkey has the potential to live as long as thirteen years or so, They can (and do) run fast with their long legs, and will take wing and fly. wild turkey. The maximum recorded lifespan for a turkey in captivity is twelve years and four months. | ChaCha Answers. Male wild Turkeys grow to about four feet long, including the tail. If you own wild turkeys and do not wish for them to fly away, their wings need Domestic turkeys bred for food consumption were not bred to live over one year.
Wild Turkeys (full grown) Weight: Males 8-24 pounds (3.6-11 kg), females 7-16 pounds (3.2-7.2 kg). Male domestic turkeys have been known to get as heavy as 86 pounds (40 kg). A domestic turkey weighs about twice what a wild turkey weighs. Male wild turkeys grow to about four feet long, including the tail. If you have turkeys that can fly, their enclosed cage should have chicken wire surrounding it on all sides and top with a wood frame with a stiff metal dog wire of about 3-4 feet tall along the bottom to keep out other animals and to keep the turkeys in.
The average life expectancy of a poult is about 1 ½ years. Turkeys that survive their first year, though, have little to fear from any predator (except humans) and can live up to 15 years in their natural habitats. In the fall, young gobblers will leave the hen flocks and form or join gobbler flocks. 
The maximum recorded lifespan for a turkey in captivity is twelve years and four months. For turkeys living in the wild, the maximum is less than ten years, but the average life expectancy of a male turkey is just over 2 years and just over 3 years for females. If you have turkeys that can fly, their enclosed cage should have chicken wire surrounding it on all sides and top with a wood frame with a stiff metal dog wire of about 3-4 feet tall along the bottom to keep out other animals and to keep the turkeys in.
You need to have plenty so they feel like they belong to a colony like they do in the wild. They can live an average of 30 years in captivity while the average life span in the wild is approximately 20 years. Many people visit locations that have Sea Lions in captivity annually. One of the most popular is the Sea World locations. There is one in California and one is Florida. 
At least 151 orcas have been taken into captivity from the wild since 1961 (including Pascuala and Morgan). 1  127 of these orcas are now dead. 2  In the wild, male orcas live to an average of 30 years (maximum 50-60 years) and 46 years for females (maximum 80-90 years). 1
1 127 of these orcas are now dead. 2  In the wild, male orcas live to an average of 30 years (maximum 50-60 years) and 46 years for females (maximum 80-90 years). 1
0. Turkeys are rather moderately-lived birds compared to long-lived species such as some hawks, gulls, and waterfowl. Overall, the mortality rate of turkeys during the first 2 weeks of life is about 70%, though longevity increases after this critical time period. The average turkey probably lives to about 11/2 years of age. Individuals may live longer, but any turkey over 6 years old is definitely an old-timer. Based on a banded bird, the oldest known eastern turkey (coincidentally from Massachusetts) was at least 15 years old at death. Rio Grande turkeys have lived to 14, Florida turkeys to 13, and Merriam's turkeys to 9