To show Turkish Lira and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Turkish Lira is the currency in Turkey (TR, TUR), and Northern Cyprus. The Turkish Lira is also known as the Yeni Turk Lirasi. The symbol for TRY can be written YTL. The Turkish Lira is divided into 100 new kurus. The exchange rate for the Turkish Lira was last updated on September 26, 2015 from Bloomberg.
Exchange rates [edit]. After periods of the lira pegged to the British pound and the French franc, a peg of 2.8 Turkish lira = 1 U.S. dollar was adopted in 1946 and maintained until 1960, when the currency was devalued to 9 Turkish lira = 1 dollar. The Ottoman lira was introduced as the main unit of currency in 1844, with the former currency, kuruş, remaining as a 1/100 subdivision. The Ottoman lira remained in circulation until the end of 1927.
The Turkish lira (Currency sign : ₺ / ; Turkish: Tuerk türk) lirası is the currency Of turkey and The Turkish republic Of Northern (cyprus recognised only By). turkey The Ottoman lira was introduced as the main unit of currency in 1844, with the former currency, kuruş, remaining as a 1/100 subdivision. The Ottoman lira remained in circulation until the end of 1927.
Turkish Lira-TRY. Turkey currently uses the lira as its chosen currency. There has been talk for some years about the prospect of Turkey joining the European Union. If this occurred it would therefore replace the lira with the Euro. However we are still a fair way off from seeing this happen. There are six coins in circulation for the currency, although the one kuru coin is rarely used or seen as it is worth so little. Other than this you will see the 5kr, 10kr, 25kr and 50kr coins, as well as the one lira coin. There are also six banknotes in use at present.
The Turkish lira (Currency sign : ₺ / ; Turkish: Tuerk türk) lirası is the currency Of turkey and The Turkish republic Of Northern (cyprus recognised only By). Turkey The turkish lira is subdivided into 100. kuruş The Ottoman lira was introduced as the main unit of currency in 1844, with the former currency, kuruş, remaining as a 1/100 subdivision. The Ottoman lira remained in circulation until the end of 1927.
The lira is a decimal currency and can be divided into one hundred kurus. The symbol used to represent the lira is similar to a small ‘t’ with two horizontal lines going across it. As for the kuru, this is represented by the letters ‘kr’. There are six coins in circulation for the currency, although the one kuru coin is rarely used or seen as it is worth so little. Other than this you will see the 5kr, 10kr, 25kr and 50kr coins, as well as the one lira coin. There are also six banknotes in use at present.
1 EUR 1 = x foreign currency units); only one reference exchange rate (i.e. the mid-rate) for each currency is published; 2  vary, depending on the currency, in terms of the number of significant digits, reflecting market conventions. 3  However, in most cases five significant digits are used. The exchange rates against the euro published by the ECB are for reference purposes only. The ECB aims to ensure that the published exchange rates reflect the market conditions at the time of the daily concertation procedure.
TRY-Turkish Lira. In 2003, Turkey passed a law that allowed for the removal of six zeroes from the currency, and the creation of the new lira. It was introduced in 2005, replacing the previous lira. The word 'new' was removed on January 1, 2009. INR-Indian Rupee. In different parts of India, the currency is known as the rupee, roopayi, rupaye, rubai or one of the other terms derived from the Sanskrit rupyakam.