Check local listings. Brown v. Board of Education (1954). Brown v. Board of Education (1954), now acknowledged as one of the greatest Supreme Court decisions of the 20th century, unanimously held that the racial segregation of children in public schools violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Mother (Nettie Hunt) and daughter (Nickie) sit on steps of the Supreme Court building on May 18, 1954, the day following the Court's historic decision in Brown v. Board of Education.
The plaintiffs then appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. When the cases came before the Supreme Court in 1952, the Court consolidated all five cases under the name of Brown v. Board of Education. Marshall personally argued the case before the Court.
Facts of Brown v. Board of Education: African-American children in Topeka, Kansas were denied access to all-white schools due to rules allowing for separate but equal facilities. The idea of separate but equal was given legal standing with the 1896 Supreme Court ruling in Plessy v. Ferguson. However, the plaintiffs in this case argued that segregation was inherently unequal. Significance of Brown v. Board of Education: The Brown decision was truly significant because it overturned the separate but equal doctrine established by the Plessy decision.
Educational segregation in the US prior to Brown. Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, 347 U.S. 483 (1954), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case in which the Court declared state laws establishing separate public schools for black and white students to be unconstitutional. The District Court ruled in favor of the Board of Education, citing the U.S. Supreme Court precedent set in Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S. 537 (1896), which had upheld a state law requiring separate but equal segregated facilities for blacks and whites in railway cars.
The Supreme Court's decision in Brown vs. Board of Education not only helped to integrate America's public schools, but also served as an important catalyst in bringing change to other areas of the public domain, where the separate but equal doctrine remained. The 1954 Supreme Court case Brown vs. Board of Education led to the integration of public schools in America. In this lesson, you'll learn about the historical background to the case and why it was so significant, after which you'll test your own knowledge of Brown vs. Board of Education with a brief quiz.
Brown vs. Board of Education was a 1954 landmark Supreme Court case that brought about the integration of public schools. The decision was one of many judicial and legislative efforts made to achieve racial equality, efforts that began with the Civil War Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. These included: The 1954 Supreme Court case Brown vs. Board of Education led to the integration of public schools in America. In this lesson, you'll learn about the historical background to the case and why it was so significant, after which you'll test your own knowledge of Brown vs. Board of Education with a brief quiz.
These cases were Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Briggs v. Elliot, Davis v. Board of Education of Prince Edward County (VA.) , Boiling v. Sharpe, and Gebhart v. Ethel. While the facts of each case are different, the main issue in each was the constitutionality of state-sponsored segregation in public schools. When the cases came before the Supreme Court in 1952, the Court consolidated all five cases under the name of Brown v. Board of Education. Marshall personally argued the case before the Court.
Brown v. Board of Education (1954, 1955). The case that came to be known as Brown v. Board of Education was actually the name given to five separate cases that were heard by the U.S. Supreme Court concerning the issue of segregation in public schools. When the cases came before the Supreme Court in 1952, the Court consolidated all five cases under the name of Brown v. Board of Education. Marshall personally argued the case before the Court.
Brown v. Board of Education is considered to be a landmark Supreme Court case contributory the eventual cessation of segregation imposed between African American and Caucasian citizens of the United States. Brown v. Board of Education was a Supreme Court case that followed suit with associated court cases involving Civil Rights and Equality, such as Plessy v. Ferguson and the Dred Scott Case; however, the verdict delivered in this case was far more favorable than those delivered with regard to similar cases. Comments.
The case of Brown v. Board of Education as heard before the Supreme Court combined five cases: Brown itself, Briggs v. Elliott (filed in South Carolina), Davis v. County School Board of Prince Edward County (filed in Virginia), Gebhart v. Belton (filed in Delaware), and Bolling v. Sharpe (filed in Washington D.C.). The District Court ruled in favor of the Board of Education, citing the U.S. Supreme Court precedent set in Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S. 537 (1896), which had upheld a state law requiring separate but equal segregated facilities for blacks and whites in railway cars.