White blood cells are blood components that protect the body from infectious agents. Also called leukocytes, white blood cells play an important role in the immune system by identifying, destroying, and removing pathogens, damaged cells, cancerous cells, and foreign matter from the body. Leukocytes originate from bone marrow stem cells and circulate in blood and lymph fluid.
1 Plasma, in which the blood cells are suspended, including: 2  Red blood cells (erythrocytes) - carry oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. 3  White blood cells (leukocytes) - help fight infections and aid in the immune process. 4  Types of white blood cells include: 5  Lymphocytes. 6  Monocytes. 7  Eosinophils. 
Confidence votes 945. Sort of. When you have an infection, your white blood cells can release things called cytokines, which are small molecules that regulate immune function. 
1 Lymphocytes-After neutrophils, lymphocytes are the most common type of white blood cell. 2  These cells are spherical in shape with large nuclei and very little cytoplasm. 3  There are three main types of lymphocytes: T cells, B cells, and natural killer cells. Also called leukocytes, white blood cells play an important role in the immune system by identifying, destroying, and removing pathogens, damaged cells, cancerous cells, and foreign matter from the body. Leukocytes originate from bone marrow stem cells and circulate in blood and lymph fluid.
For the album by the band The White Stripes, see White Blood Cells (album) . White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes or leucocytes, are the cells of the immune system that are involved in protecting the body against both infectious disease and foreign invaders. All leukocytes are produced and derived from a multipotent cell in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cell. Monocytes and neutrophils are phagocytic. The number of leukocytes in the blood is often an indicator of disease, and thus the WBC count is an important subset of the complete blood count. The normal white cell count is usually between 4 and 11 × 10 9 /L. In the US this is usually expressed as 4,000–11,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood
White blood cells are categorized by the apparent presence or absence of granules (sacs containing digestive enzymes or other chemical substances) in their cytoplasm. A white blood cell is considered to be a granulocyte or an agranulocyte. Also called leukocytes, white blood cells play an important role in the immune system by identifying, destroying, and removing pathogens, damaged cells, cancerous cells, and foreign matter from the body. Leukocytes originate from bone marrow stem cells and circulate in blood and lymph fluid.
The other major type of white blood cell is a lymphocyte. There are two main populations of these cells. T lymphocytes help regulate the function of other immune cells and directly attack various infected cells and tumors. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count.
A low white blood cell count, or leukopenia, is a decrease in disease-fighting cells (leukocytes) circulating in your blood. The threshold for a low white blood cell count varies from one medical practice to another. Some healthy people have white cell counts that are lower than what's considered normal. A count lower than 4,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood is generally considered a low white blood cell count. The threshold for a low white blood cell count in children varies with age and sex. 1  Causes.
White blood cells protect the body from infection. They are much fewer in number than red blood cells, accounting for about 1 percent of your blood. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count.