The heaviest snowfalls in Oregon occur in the Cascade Range. Snowfall in Oregon is greatest in the Cascade Range. Based on data from ski resorts and a few official weather stations, average annual snowfall in the Cascades can range from 300 to 550 inches (760 to 1,400 cm). Precipitation in the state varies widely: some western coastal slopes approach 200 inches (5,100 mm) annually, while the driest places, such as the Alvord Desert (in the rain shadow of Steens Mountain) in eastern Oregon, get as little as 5 inches (130 mm).
Springs are mild with warm days. Average precipitation is 16 inches per year. The two counties have an approx average 265 days of sun and a growing season averaging 100 days a year. The Oregon Coast in spring temperatures range from high 50 s during day to low 40 s at night with a good chance of rain. It can get quite windy so bring your kites and wind breakers. In summer temperatures range from 60-70 s during day to high 50 s at night
Average temperatures for January at cities, towns, parks and lakes throughout Oregon are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010 by the US National Climatic Data Center. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Oregon Coast, Willamette Valley, Cascade Mountains, Central Oregon and Eastern Oregon.
You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Oregon Coast, Willamette Valley, Cascade Mountains, Central Oregon and Eastern Oregon. Place name links take you to more detailed temperature information for that location. Average Annual Temperatures in Oregon. Average annual temperatures for cities, towns, parks and lakes throughout Oregon are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010
Annual snowfall along the coastal plain averages 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.6 cm) a year, including years with none. Further inland, between the Coast Range and the Cascades, snowfall generally averages from 10 to 15 inches (25 to 38 cm) a year. Precipitation in the state varies widely: some western coastal slopes approach 200 inches (5,100 mm) annually, while the driest places, such as the Alvord Desert (in the rain shadow of Steens Mountain) in eastern Oregon, get as little as 5 inches (130 mm).
Table 3 lists normal monthly temperature at stations in the area. Average heating and cooling degree days (base 65 deg F) are lower for the coastal region than any other Oregon region as a result of the mild temperatures. Extremely high or low temperatures are rare, and the annual temperature range is lower than any other Oregon climate zone. Temperatures of 90 deg F or above occur, on the average, less than once per year, and freezing temperatures are infrequent.
Table 3 lists normal monthly temperature at stations in the area. Average heating and cooling degree days (base 65 deg F) are lower for the coastal region than any other Oregon region as a result of the mild temperatures. Extremely high or low temperatures are rare, and the annual temperature range is lower than any other Oregon climate zone. Along the lower elevations of the immediate coast, normal annual precipitation is between 65 to 90 inches. However, spots high on the west slopes of the range may get up to 200 inches. Several days of abundant rainfall can cause strong flood events.
South Coast. Gold Beach, Brookings and other southern Oregon coastal towns enjoy slightly warmer temperatures year round. Average winter high temperatures range from 55 to 58 degrees, with lows around 41 to 45 degrees. Precipitation is about 11 to 13 inches monthly in winter, drying out to just a half inch during July. As expected, winters are wet along the northern Oregon coast towns such as Astoria, Seaside and Tillamook. Tillamook has the highest monthly precipitation average in the region, which peaks in December at just under 14 inches. Winter temperatures along the north coast are relatively mild, with highs in the upper 40s to low 50s. Low temperatures tend to stay above 36 degrees F