Women should limit sugar intake to no more than 6 teaspoons per day, which provides about 100 calories. Men should limit sugar intake to no more than 9 teaspoons, or about 150 calories. In contrast, the average adult consumes 22 teaspoons per day. The average American consumes 3 pounds of sugar a week and 130 pounds a year, reports Forbes.com. This is equal to about 3,550 pounds of sugar in a lifetime. The consumption of added sugar accounts for an intake of 500 calories per day, which can cause a weight gain of 1 pound per week
Put down that sugar! 02:53. For an adult at a normal body mass index, or BMI, eating 5% would be around 25 grams of sugar -- or six teaspoons. That's less than is typically found in a single can of regular soda, which contains about 40 grams of sugar. Story highlights. 1  The World Health Organization proposes new guidelines for sugar consumption. 2  WHO says we should eat less than 5% of our total daily calories from sugars. 3  For an adult with a normal BMI, 5% is around 25
How much is 10 percent? Well, in a 2000-calorie-a-day diet, 10 percent would be equal to about 50 grams, or 10 teaspoons of sugar. Unfortunately, most Americans consume 30 to 40 teaspoons or more of refined sugar per day. Most of this sugar comes from food products to which sugar has been added, such as soda, candy and baked goods. A can of soda alone can contain around 10 teaspoons of added sugar! So in general, if you've had a can of soda, you've had as much added sugar as is healthy for the day. Naturally-occurring sugars, such as those in an apple or a glass of milk, are not included in the less-than-10-percent-a-day recommendation.
Recommendations vary based on organization. For example, the World Health Organization recommends keeping added sugar intake to 10% of total calories. For the average 2000 calorie-diet that's a maximum of 50 grams. The American Heart Association recommends 6 teaspoons of sugar for women and 9 for men (1 teaspoon of sugar has about 4g of sugar). The primary source of added sugars are soft drinks and other sugar-sweetened beverag
Currently, Western European adults consume an average of 101 grams of sugar per day, while in South America the figure rises to 130 grams. Sugar represents around 16-17% of an adult’s daily energy intake in the United Kingdom and Spain. 
The average American eats about 22 teaspoons of added sugar every day. This adds up to over 70 pounds of sugar a year. Even worse, American teens are eating closer to 34 teaspoons a day. The result on our bodies is less than sweet. 
The World Health Organization is dropping its sugar intake recommendations from 10 percent of your daily calorie intake to 5 percent. For an adult of a normal body mass index (BMI), that works out to about 6 teaspoons -- or 25 grams -- of sugar per day. Many people don't realize much of the sugar they take in are hidden in processed foods, according to WHO. A can of soda may contain up to 10 teaspoons or 40 grams of sugar
For an average 2000-calorie diet, the World Health Organization recommends that a maximum of 10% of the total calories come from added sugar. This equates to less than 50 grams of added sugar per day. 1 Women may reduce the daily sugar intake to 17 g per day and men can aim for 25 g per day. 2  Your physician can help you develop a target range for sugar intake. 3  A glucometer is a portable device that measures blood glucose levels.