A HIDA scan is used to evaluate if you have gallbladder disease and/or to determine if your bile ducts are open. If your gallbladder has been removed, the physician may refer you for this test to evaluate the bile ducts. 
A gallbladder scan is also called a hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid scan (HIDA scan), gallbladder radionuclide scan, hepatobiliary scan, cholescintigraphy, or hepatobiliary scintigraphy. A gallbladder scan is only one method used to diagnose conditions of the gallbladder, liver and bile ducts. A gallbladder scan, also known as a HIDA (hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid) scan, is a procedure that uses a radioactive substance to take pictures of your gallbladder, liver, and bile ducts.
A Hepatobiliary Iminodiacetic Acid (HIDA) scan refers to an imaging procedure, through which a medical expert tracks the production and flow of bile from your liver, into your small intestines. This procedure creates images of your gall bladder, liver, small intestines and the bile ducts. 
Guide. A gallbladder scan is a nuclear scanning test that is done to check gallbladder function. The scan can find blockage in the tubes (bile ducts) that lead from the liver to the gallbladder and small intestine (duodenum). During a gallbladder scan, a radioactive tracer substance is injected into a vein in the arm. The liver removes the tracer from the bloodstream and adds it to the bile that normally flows through the bile ducts to the gallbladder. The gallbladder then releases the tracer into the beginning of the small intestine.
Definition. A HIDA scan is an imaging test. It helps to diagnose problems of the gallbladder and liver. Bile is a fluid that is made in the liver. It is stored in the bile duct. This fluid helps your body digest certain foods. If there is a problem with the production or flow of bile, a HIDA scan may find the problem
Cholescintigraphy is a test done by nuclear medicine physicians to diagnose obstruction of the bile ducts (for example, by a gallstone or a tumor), disease of the gallbladder, and bile leaks. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A cholescintigraphy scan, also known as: hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid (HIDA), paraisopropyl iminodiacetic acid (PIPIDA), or diisopropyl iminodiacetic acid (DISIDA) scan is a nuclear imaging procedure to evaluate the health and function of the gallbladder. 
HIDA Scan. HIDA scan is an imaging procedure that helps your doctor track the production and flow of bile from your liver to your small intestine. Bile is a fluid produced by your liver that helps your digestive system break down fats in the foods you eat. A HIDA scan, which stands for hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid scan, creates pictures of your liver, gallbladder, biliary tract and small intestine. A HIDA scan can also be called cholescintigraphy, hepatobiliary scintigraphy or hepatobiliary scan.