Implantation usually occurs 5-6 days after conception. So for a blood test I would say it would detect pregnancy around 8 days after conception. A home pregnancy test takes longer to detect HCG because they are only sensitive to a certain amount of HCG, usually 50 and higher. Your HCG doesn't reach 50 until about 13 days after conception and sometimes longer. When a doctor orders a blood pregnancy test they will order a quantitive hcg test...meaning they want to know what your HCG level is at.
A negative result at that stage does not rule out pregnancy. it takes about two weeks for the embryo to make enough HCG to produce a positive pregnancy test. Blood test may be done a day after a missed period. Home pregnancy tests should be done 4-5 days after the missed period. They can detect a pregnancy 7-10 days after conception. The best time to take one is when you miss your period. If you doubt the result you can repeat it in 1-2 days. If you were pregnant the hormone level would rise enough for detection.
1 Blood test. 2  This type of pregnancy test can only be done at a doctor’s office. 3  It takes longer than a urine test to get results, but it can detect a pregnancy earlier than a urine test (about 10 days after conception, compared to typically 2 weeks or more for a urine test). 
I got a positive on my home pregnancy test 9 days after ovulation. I went to get a blood test and it was negative. I have since gotten 5 days of consecutive positive results on 3 different brands of home pregnancy tests. Depending on what test the doctor uses will depend on the sensitivity. Answer     A blood test for pregnancy (hcg, or human chorionic gonadotropin) will be accurate at implantation, which occurs about 8-12 days after conception. … HCG is detectable as early as 8 days post-
These tests can detect pregnancy earlier than a home pregnancy test, or about six to eight days after ovulation. But with these tests, it takes longer to get the results than with a home pregnancy test. Two types of blood pregnancy tests are available: A qualitative hCG test simply checks to see if hCG is present. 
This occurs about one week after your ovulation, although this may range from 6 to 12 days. It will take another 3 to 4 days (approximately 9 to 16 days post-ovulation) for your blood test to become positive. After 2 to 3 days an early urine test for pregnancy or a Home Pregnancy Test (HPT) may turn positive. 
Advantages of having a blood test done: 1  Can detect a pregnancy earlier than a urine test at about 7-12 days from possible conception (but if a negative result is received, a test should be repeated if a period is missed.). Most doctors recommend that you wait until the first day of your missed period before taking a urine pregnancy test. This is usually about two weeks after conception. However, some tests are more sensitive than others and can be taken earlier.
Both test for hCG levels; the only difference lies in that the former tests its levels within the blood stream while the later in the urine. A positive blood test will usually show a positive result 3 to 4 days after implantation, or roughly 9 to 10 days after ovulation. For a home urine test, however, a positive result will not be visible until a week after implantation or until you have a missed period. 
Based on these statistics, if you. pregnant and take a pregnancy test on 10 days past ovulation you are most likely to get a False Negative test result. 29.6% of tests taken by pregnant women were negatives-thus making them false negatives. A false negative result is when a pregnancy test indicates that you are not pregnant but you actually are. To avoid unnecessary disappointment you should try and wait as long as possible before testing. If you do get a positive test result on 10 days past ovulation, it will most likely be a Faint Positive.
About 12 days: A sensitive pregnancy test should be accurate about 12 days after ovulation. A urine pregnancy test may take a couple days longer to be accurate than a blood pregnancy test: if there is any question, your doctor can order a blood level of hcg. ...Read more. Dr. Tonga Nfor. They can detect a pregnancy 7-10 days after conception. The best time to take one is when you miss your period. If you doubt the result you can repeat it in 1-2 days. If you were pregnant the hormone level would rise enough for detection.