The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that carbohydrates make up 45 to 65 percent of your total daily calories. So, if you get 2,000 calories a day, between 900 and 1,300 calories should be from carbohydrates. That translates to between 225 and 325 grams of carbohydrates a day. You can find the carbohydrate content of packaged foods on the Nutrition Facts label. 
Carb grams/day range*: 180–308 grams. Carb grams/meal range (3 meals per day): 60–103 grams. *Based on 45%–­65% of calories from carbohydrate. Note: These recommendations are the same for a woman of small stature who wants to maintain weight. The biggest problem is too many total calories and the types of calories consumed. Research shows Americans eat too much added sugar (22 teaspoons a day, which translates to about 350 calories!) and not enough fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods.
Carb grams/day range*: 259–455 grams. Carb grams/meal range (3 meals per day): 86–151 grams. *Based on 45%–65% of calories from carbohydrate. Note: Men who are under 65 years of age, moderate to large in stature, at a healthy weight, and get a lot of exercise may need more calories and grams of carbohydrate. The biggest problem is too many total calories and the types of calories consumed. Research shows Americans eat too much added sugar (22 teaspoons a day, which translates to about 350 calories!) and not enough fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods.
The amount of carbs you can eat depends on your age, sex, height, weight, and activity level. On average females can have 3-4 servings of carbs for each meal, and a serving of carbs in between meals. A serving of carbohydrates is 15 grams of carbs. On average, a male can have 5-6 servings of carbs for each meal and a serving of carb in between each meal. Remember, though, that the type of carb matters to. As a diabetic, you should choose carbs that are whole grains. Whole grains contain fiber and nutrients, and they help keep you satiated longer. 
If you think Americans eat a big percentage of calories from carbs, that’s incorrect. We eat about 50 percent of our calories from carbohydrate. The biggest problem is too many total calories and the types of calories consumed. Research shows Americans eat too much added sugar (22 teaspoons a day, which translates to about 350 calories!) and not enough fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy foods. Rather than focusing on the amount of carbs you eat, concentrate on increasing the quality of the sources of carbs you eat
Most adults need 6-11 servings of carbs per day, depending on the factors listed above. The general starting point for a moderate-size woman is 45-60 grams of carbohydrates at each meal; for moderate-size men, 60-75 grams of carbs per meal. Most people with diabetes don't need to eat snacks. Q: How many grams of carbohydrates should a woman with diabetes have each day? A: Generally speaking, being a woman means you likely need to eat fewer carbohydrates each day than a man. However, the amount of carbohydrates you need should depend on many factors, including your size, age, activity, desire to lose weight, and food preferences. There is not a one-size-fits-all amount of carbohydrates for all women. Everyone is different and has diverse nutritional need
Patients with type 1 diabetes should have a diet that has approximately 35 calories per kg of body weight per day (or 16 calories per pound of body weight per day). If you have a child who has type 1 diabetes, we encourage you to read our article about meal planning for children with type 1 diabetes. Muscle burns more calories per hour than fat. (Thus also one reason to regularly exercise and build up muscle!) Also, people whose activity level is low will have less daily caloric needs. Generally, carbohydrates should make up about 50% of the daily calories (with the accepted range 40% to 60%).
Counting carbohydrates is important because carbohydrates you eat make your blood sugar levels go up. Eating to many carbohydrates can elevate your blood sugar to dangerously high levels. Eating too few carbohydrates can cause low blood sugar, especially if you are on diabetic medications or insulin. A good place to start for most is to consume 45 to 60 grams of carbohydrates per meal. While this is often the recommendation, I myself rarely eat over 15 to 30 carbs per meal. I've been a type 1 diabetes since I was three.
For example: Each gram of carbohydrate provides 4 calories. A person with diabetes on a 1,600 calorie diet should get 50% of these calories from carbohydrates. This would be a total of 800 calories of carbohydrates (at 4 calories per gram) spread out over the day. Muscle burns more calories per hour than fat. (Thus also one reason to regularly exercise and build up muscle!) Also, people whose activity level is low will have less daily caloric needs. Generally, carbohydrates should make up about 50% of the daily calories (with the accepted range 40% to 60%).