I am really looking desperately after a good sci-fi/supernatural anime because I've seen one in a while/tried to see. I am picky, and I must say that I want a well rounded anime without involving ecchy genre or anything related to moe/stupid girls etc-because whoever I asked just tended to recommend me childish anime. Appleseed (it's a movie, not bad). Ghost in the shell (either the movie or the series, beautifully done and it's a sci fi anime that's worth watching). Cowboy bebop (futuristic and sci fi that will keep you interested). Texhnolyze (not the best graphics in the world, but none the less a great sci fi).
Hakuromatsu. Disclaimer: I highly recommend watching it; I think it's the greatest anime ever created. I just don't think it's sci-fi -- and the reason I say that is to prevent you from going into it expecting a good sci-fi anime. Appleseed (it's a movie, not bad). Ghost in the shell (either the movie or the series, beautifully done and it's a sci fi anime that's worth watching). Cowboy bebop (futuristic and sci fi that will keep you interested). Texhnolyze (not the best graphics in the world, but none the less a great sci fi).
I'm a big fan of the planetes manga, like the anime a little less because it sort of got rid of the existentialist aspect in a big way. wondering what I should watch next. Add your answer. 1 We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 2  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 3  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 4  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB.
If you like militaristic anime, then you should definitely watch Pumpkin Scissors and Toshokan Sensou. I don't know what else to say, hmm... the main pairs of those series have reversed hight proportions. In PS we have short girl and huge guy, while in TS we have tall girl and shorter guy. He's a counterterror agent assigned to protect her from those who would steal the information locked in her mind. OK, so she's not so normal after all. Armored Slave battles and lovers' spats abound as Sousuke and his comrades try to track down the mysterious Gauln before it's too late.
In the end, it becomes clear that the point of the series was not technology or space, but human nature, the way we all connect to each other, and what we can accomplish together.All in all it is a cute anime. It starts really silly, but ends very well. And for a 26 episode anime, it certainly kept me on my toes. A word of mention about the soundtrack, which I found good towards very good for an anime, with mostly Japanese songs (even if sprinkled with the now customary English words). Bottom line: worth seeing. However, the progression of technology in space has also resulted in the problem of the space debris, which can cause excessive and even catastrophic damage to spacecrafts and equipment.
It may not sound too convincing but FMP and Toshokan Sensou did feel somehow alike. Well TS wasn't a mecha show and didn't have those bits of echii, but that wasn't the main subject of FMP (really). In FMP we have a guy(solider) who enters a world he is (totally) unfamiliar with, namely high-school. He's a counterterror agent assigned to protect her from those who would steal the information locked in her mind. OK, so she's not so normal after all. Armored Slave battles and lovers' spats abound as Sousuke and his comrades try to track down the mysterious Gauln before it's too late.
In the end, it becomes clear that the point of the series was not technology or space, but human nature, the way we all connect to each other, and what we can accomplish together. All in all it is a cute anime. It starts really silly, but ends very well. And for a 26 episode anime, it certainly kept me on my toes. A word of mention about the soundtrack, which I found good towards very good for an anime, with mostly Japanese songs (even if sprinkled with the now customary English words). Bottom line: worth seeing. However, the progression of technology in space has also resulted in the problem of the space debris, which can cause excessive and even catastrophic damage to spacecrafts and equipment.
This is the official Bandai trailer for the DVD of PlanetES. A super cool space anime that isn't your typical super cool space anime. This is the official trailer so all rights reserved to Bandai and all thanks for making bringing us this series. Just to clarify what I've seen in some comments below.