Chard (Beta vulgaris subsp. vulgaris, Cicla-Group and Flavescens-Group) is a leafy green vegetable often used in Mediterranean cooking. In the Flavescens-Group-cultivars, the leaf stalks are large and are often prepared separately from the leaf blade. Chard is in the same subspecies as beetroot (garden beet) and all other beet cultivars. They are cultivated descendants of the sea beet, Beta vulgaris subsp. maritima.
Chard — sometimes called Swiss chard or rainbow chard (when it sports brightly colored stalks) — really is a relative of the beet. But unlike traditional beets — which put their energy into producing finger-staining roots — chard instead produces big, tender leaves and crunchy stalks. 
Succulent swiss chard, also known as spinach-chard or silverbeet, is one of the popular green leafy vegetables of European origin. Botanically, it belongs to the beet family (Chenopodiaceae) of vegetables, which also includes table-beets, sugar-beets, garden-beets, etc. 
Chard. Definition: Chard is a type of leafy green vegetable that is common in Mediterranean cuisine, particularly Italian. Chard is used in many Italian recipes, such as in pasta dishes, in risotto and on pizza. 
Botanical name: Beta vulgaris Swiss chard is not only a superstar in Mediterranean cooking, but is also one of the most nutritious vegetables around today. It has distinctly large, dark green leaves, which are harvested at various stages of maturity. Phytonutrients are a source of antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and whole body benefits. Swiss chard is very low in calories, or only about 19 calories per 100 grams of fresh, raw leaves. It is also an excellent source of vitamin C, its fresh leaves providing about 33 percent of recommended levels per 100 grams.
Swiss chard. Pronounce it: swiss shard. Also known as just plain chard, swiss chard has large, fleshy but tender deep green leaves and thick, crisp stalks. Although they're unrelated, chard is similar to spinach, but with a stronger, more assertive (some think, bitter) flavour. 
Chard goes by many names—Swiss chard, leaf beet, seakettle beet, and spinach beet to name a few. It is a beautiful large-leaf vegetable with wide flat stems resembling celery. The ruby variety is especially charming with its' vivid red stem with broad dark green leaves. Chard can be harvested while the leaves are young and tender or after maturity when larger have slightly tougher stems. Chard is extremely perishable, so keep refrigerator storage time to a minimum. Store unwashed leaves in plastic bags in the crisper for 2 to 3 days.
Fresh young chard can be used raw in salads. Mature chard leaves and stalks are typically cooked (like in pizzoccheri) or sauteed; their bitterness fades with cooking, leaving a refined flavor which is more delicate than that of cooked spinach. Chard is in the same subspecies as beetroot (garden beet) and all other beet cultivars. They are cultivated descendants of the sea beet, Beta vulgaris subsp. maritima.
Chard. Chard is a beet that has been chosen for leaf production at the expense of storage root formation. Chard will produce fresh white, yellow or red leaf stalks. It is an attractive ornamental that adds color to the vegetable garden. Chard can be harvested while the leaves are young and tender or after maturity when larger have slightly tougher stems. Chard is extremely perishable, so keep refrigerator storage time to a minimum. Store unwashed leaves in plastic bags in the crisper for 2 to 3 days.
Best Answer: Chard, also known as Swiss Chard, Silverbeet, Perpetual Spinach or Mangold, is a leaf vegetable, and is one of the cultivated descendants of the Sea Beet. While used for its leaves, it is in the same species as the garden beet, which is grown primarily for its roots. Fresh young chard can also be used raw in salads. Cooking Suggestions: The stalks take longer to cook than the leaves. So to cook chard you should: Wash the leaves well, to remove grit Cut off the stems and slice them finely Chop the leaves Heat a little oil or butter in a pan and add the stems. Cook for 2-3 minutes.