Florence /flo-ren-ce/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced FLOR-ens. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Florence is flowering, in bloom. Medieval form of Florentius and Florentia, from florens. In the Middle Ages, the name was used for men, as in the historian Florence of Worcester. Modern use is almost entirely inspired by the fame of Florence Nightingale, who was named for the Italian city where she was born (Latin Florentia, Italian Firenze). Athlete Florence Flo Jo Griffith Joyner; actress Florence Henderson.
She was the wife of John Cole of Enniskillen, builder of Florence Court, County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland. Her grandmother was one of the earliest English women to bear the name, Florence Rolle (1630-1705), the daughter and heiress of Denys I Rolle (1614-1638), of Stevenstone and Bicton in Devon. A notable Florence was Florence Nightingale, who was a nurse in British hospitals during the Crimean War and is usually considered the founder of modern nursing. She was given the name because she was born in Florence, Italy.
The second possible origin for the modern surname is locational for someone from the city of Florence in Italy, which was originally named in Latin as Florentia. One Bartholomew de Florence is recorded in the Hundred Rolls of Yorkshire, dated 1273. 
In Arthurian Legend the meaning of the name Florence is: Son of Gawain. American Meaning: The name Florence is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Florence is: Son of Gawain. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Florence is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Florence is: All's Well That Ends Well.' Duke of Florence. 
Meaning of Florence. English name. In English, the name Florence means-Flowering.. Other origins for the name Florence include-English, Latin-American.The name Florence is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Flowering.
Florence is an English given name for girls. It is the French version after Saint Florentia, Roman martyr under Diocletian. It comes from Latin florens, florentius blossoming, verb floreo, meaning to flower, in the sense of a blossom. Florence was in olden times also used as a translation of the Latin version Florentius, and may be used in this context as a male given name. A notable Florence was Florence Nightingale, who was a nurse in British hospitals during the Crimean War and is usually considered the founder of modern nursing. She was given the name because she was born in Florence, Italy.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Florence and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Florence and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Florence for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Florence is a girl name. The name Florence is of Latin origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Origin of the name Florence: Medieval English form of the Latin Florentia, which is derived from florens (blooming, flourishing, prosperous). The name was made popular by Florence Nightingale (1820 - 1910), a nurse in the Crimean War who is regarded as the founder of modern nursing.
From the Latin name Florentius or the feminine form Florentia, which were derived from florens prosperous, flourishing. Florentius was borne by many early Christian saints, and it was occasionally used in their honour through the Middle Ages. In modern times it is mostly feminine. 