Popularity of the Name Kayla. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Kayla displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kayla and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Kayla is fascinating, learn more about it.
Greek Meaning: The name Kayla is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kayla is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Kayla is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kayla is: Pure. English Meaning: The name Kayla is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kayla is: Variants of Kay: keeper of the keys; pure. Famous bearer: Kayla is a character on daytime TV series 'Days of Our Lives
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kyla and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kyla and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
Kayla is a female given name, meaning Purity in Greek. Its popularity in the United States is attributed to the character Kayla Brady in the soap opera Days of our Lives. Kayla is the name of one of the goddesses of Ancient Egypt. Kayla meaning Purity in Greek. Kayla is also one of the names of the Beta Israel community among their neighbours, after which the Kayla language is named. Kayla (pronounced K-la) is the name of one of the goddesses of Ancient Egypt.
It is more often used as a girl (female) name. People having the name Kayla are in general originating from France, Ireland, Israel, New Zealand, South Korea, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Kayla across the world, see Michaela. The name Kayla is ranked on the 256th position of the most used names. It means that this name is very frequently used. We estimate that there are at least 2361700 persons in the world having this name which is around 0.033% of the population. The name Kayla has five characters.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Kyla is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Kyla is: Victorious. American Meaning: The name Kyla is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kyla is: Victorious. Gaelic Meaning: The name Kyla is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kyla is: Feminine of Kyle.
The different meanings of the name Kayla are: The meaning of the name “Kayla” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kayla and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Kayla is fascinating, learn more about it.
Kayla /kay-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAY-la. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Kayla is slim and fair . From Caoilainn. Also used as a modern variant of Kayley and Katherine, or as a diminutive of Michaela. Also possibly from the Yiddish name Kelila, meaning  crown of laurel . Initial popularity of the name is due to the character named Kayla on the daytime TV drama Days of Our Lives. See also Kaylee. 
Origin of the name Kayla: Transferred use of the Anglicized Irish surname, which is from the Gaelic Mac Caollaidhe (son of Caollaidhe) and O'Caollaidhe (descendant of Caollaidhe). The name is derived from caol (slender). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
The defition of Kayla has changed dramatically over time to rest at the above definition. The word Kayla is actually derived from a Greek mythology female deity who would prey on innocent men in the way of a dinner whore. The deity had one fatal weakness: a hysterical male deity by the name of Ross who only had to speak her name to suppress Kayla's alluring powers. 