A. Yes, we have large selection of ex-sample dresses available to buy off the peg that we will have cleaned and re-beaded ready for your wedding. There are also several dresses available to order on ‘priority’, which means they should arrive in 12 weeks. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I would order it within the next couple of months. It can take up to 9 months sometimes to custom order a gown. Don't worry about losing weight, your gown can be taken in if you lose enough weight, but most brides are so stressed they don't lose weight. They usually gain it. Good luck! Your wedding is almost a year away so you've got at least six months before you have to do that. I think I ordered mine about four months prior to the big day. Mine was not a custom gown though, you'd probably want to order closer to six if yours is. Hamlette · 8 years ago.
Most wedding gowns take 4-6 months to arrive once you order them. However, most designers have a rush option that allows customers to “get in the front of the line”. It does cost an additional fee, but if you are worried about alterations, travel, etc. for your wedding, adding a rush is always a great idea. If you need your dresses in less than 3 months most designers offer the rush option for an additional fee. When bridesmaids are in different cities they need to be measured by their local bridal shop. They should try and find the designer of their dress to try on to get a better idea on size.
Depending on where you get your dress, it could take several months for your dress to be ordered and shipped. From then, you'll need several weeks for your seamstress to make alterations. You should start shopping about 9 months before your wedding, but preferably sooner. There's nothing wrong with beginning early, even a year before you'll actually place an order. But don't make the mistake of buying yet. 1 The dress of your dreams may end up being a $300 gown on a sale rack somewhere. 2  Buy the dress you love, and if it's less than your budget allowance, you'll have extra money for something else, like the honeymoon! 3  Your dream dress is the one that makes you not care what the centerpieces are at the reception.
Our standard delivery time for bridals gowns are 12-20 weeks and for bridesmaids is 8-12 weeks. For custom orders, please add 2-4 weeks to our standard delivery. Please note that delivery times may vary depending on the style. Sometimes the order may be in stock, already coming in, or it may be put on a rush. 
How long will it take for my bridesmaids dresses to be delivered? Most bridesmaids gowns take anywhere from 3-6 months to come in depending on the manufacturer. We can get some dresses in as quickly as 5 weeks with a rush fee.
Cancel. It takes a long time to order a bridal gown, so you should always start shopping nine months to a year in advance. Find out about how long it takes to order a bridal gown with help from a bridal fashion professional in this free video clip. Part of the Video Series: Wedding Dresses & Fashion. We specialize in sizes 12 and up. Today, we’re going to talk about how long it takes to order a bridal gown. Ladies, when you go wedding dress shopping, you have two options. The first is, you can buy your gown off the rack or right out of stock. For a more special experience though, you may want to custom order your wedding dress, and that can take up to nine months. In fact, it can take four to five months for them to start from scratch and custom make your beautiful gow
If you need a wedding gown in 3 months or less there are options for you as well. Some designers carry stock in their warehouse. If ordered and the designer has your color and size, they can ship the dress out within a few days. This means you would receive your dress in a few short weeks. If you need your dresses in less than 3 months most designers offer the rush option for an additional fee. When bridesmaids are in different cities they need to be measured by their local bridal shop. They should try and find the designer of their dress to try on to get a better idea on size.