In May 2010, Air Supply released Mumbo Jumbo, the duo's first studio recording in eight years. It was recorded at Graham Russell's home studio near Park City, Utah and at Odds On's state of the art facilities in Las Vegas with top session musicians and an orchestra. Air Supply performed in London supporting Chicago and Boz Scaggs. Although their music had some commercial success, Russell claimed, on a 1995 DVD, that he and Hitchcock were so poor that they checked the backs of hotel sofas for change so that they could buy bread to make toast.
Air Supply released a Greatest Hits collection in 1983, featuring a new single, Making Love Out of Nothing at All.. The single spent two weeks at number two while the album peaked at number seven and eventually sold over four million copies. Two years later, they released Air Supply, their fourth album. Air Supply signed a record contract with Arista in 1980, releasing their first album by the end of the year.
For their 1985 album, see Air Supply (1985 album) . Air Supply is the debut album by Australian soft rock band Air Supply which was released on CBS Records in December 1976. The album peaked at No. 17 on the Australian Kent Music Report Albums Chart. It was followed by Air Supply, their debut album, in December, which reached No. 17 on the Kent Music Report Albums Chart and achieved gold in Australia.
Air Supply's official music video for 'All Out Of Love'. Click to listen to Air Supply on Spotify: http://smarturl.it/AirSupplySpotify?I... 
Air Supply. The quintessentially smooth soft rock hits of Australian duo Graham Russell and Russell Hitchcock include “Lost in Love,” “All Out of Love,” “The One That You Love,” “Making Love Out of Nothing at All,” “Every Woman in the World,” “Even the Nights are Better,” “Just as I Am,” and many more.
iTunes is the world's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To preview and buy music from Love Songs: Air Supply by Air Supply, download iTunes now.
That same year, Air Supply also released their first live video, Air Supply Live in Hawaii. In 1984, their song I Can Wait Forever was featured in a scene of the blockbuster movie Ghostbusters, and was included in the soundtrack album. Air Supply performed in London supporting Chicago and Boz Scaggs. Although their music had some commercial success, Russell claimed, on a 1995 DVD, that he and Hitchcock were so poor that they checked the backs of hotel sofas for change so that they could buy bread to make toast.
Song Details: Here I Am was released in 1981 as a single taken from Air Supply's sixth studio album, The One That You Love (1981). It is a soft rock song ,written by Norman Saleet and produced by Harry Maslin. Sheet Music Print and download options may vary. 
Air Supply is an Australian soft rock duo, consisting of British-born singer-songwriter and guitarist Graham Russell and lead vocalist Russell Hitchcock. They had a succession of hits worldwide, including eight Top Ten hits in the United States, in the early 1980s. Air Supply performed in London supporting Chicago and Boz Scaggs. Although their music had some commercial success, Russell claimed, on a 1995 DVD, that he and Hitchcock were so poor that they checked the backs of hotel sofas for change so that they could buy bread to make toast.