Best Answer: If the new clothes are a dark/bright color (bright red, for example), wash them separately in cold water. Usually, a good portion of dye comes out in the first wash, and this can stain other clothes (yes, even in cold water). Set the machine on the smallest load size you can, to avoid wasting water.
There are two good reasons to wash new clothes before you wear them. One is to wash out extra dye that can be transferred to your skin or other garments. And, more importantly, to remove chemical finishes that manufacturers put on clothes to enhance color or texture.
Yes, you should wash baby's clothes, blankets, and other washable items that will come in contact with his or her skin. It's not necessary that you do it before she's born, but it is recommended that you do it before she wears them. The reason for this is that baby's brand new birthday suit hasn't toughened up yet.
Best Answer: You definitely want to wash new clothes before wearing them. New clothes can be contaminated with many nasty things. You have no idea how many people have tried them on before you or even if the clothes were worn and then returned unwashed.
If you have a tag on the garment that reads wash separately before wearing, beware of dye transfer and color bleeding. Washing should remove the excess dye but check the rinse water. If color remains in the water, it make take several washings to get rid of the excess dye so continue to wash separately.
You should be sure to use a gentle, baby-friendly detergent — one that doesn't include dyes or perfumes (scents) since those, too, can irritate skin. Whether you use a baby-specific or a gentle everyday detergent that omits these potential irritants is up to you. Either should do the trick.
Yes I do believe you should wash new clothes before you wear them....... why well other people tried them on, then you get a better fit after one wash. It sounds really mean coming out like this but, there are many things you can catch just from trying on / wearing clothes after someone else who has something.