Directions. 1  Defrost the lobster tails. 2  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. 3  Using kitchen shears cut down the center of top of each tail down to the base. 4  Next grab each side of the shell and gently pry the shell away from the meat-leaving the meat at the base of the tail attached. 1 Defrost the lobster tails. 2  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. 3  Using kitchen shears cut down the center of top of each tail down to the base. 4  Next grab each side of the shell and gently pry the shell away from the meat-leaving the meat at the base of the tail attached.
1 Season lobster with salt and pepper to taste. 2  Place dish in the oven for about 8 minutes or until butter melts and lobster meat is white. 3  Remove from the oven, place the lobster tails on a plate, and then pour the melted butter over each tail. Directions: 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 2  Place the lobster tails in a shallow dish. 3  Evenly place butter around the lobster tails. 4  Sprinkle the minced garlic around the dish and add the rosemary next to the lobster.
1 Whisk in salt, paprika, white pepper, and garlic powder. 2  Split lobster tails lengthwise with a large knife, and brush flesh side of tail with marinade. 3  Lightly oil grill grate. 4  Place tails, flesh side down, on preheated grill. 5  Cook for 10 to 12 minutes, turning once, and basting frequently with marinade. 1 Split lobster tails lengthwise with a large knife, and brush flesh side of tail with marinade. 2  Lightly oil grill grate. 3  Place tails, flesh side down, on preheated grill. 4  Cook for 10 to 12 minutes, turning once, and basting frequently with marinade. 5  Discard any remaining marinade.
Place prepared lobster tails on a baking sheet, brush each lobster tail with melted butter, and bake approximately 15 minutes or until an instant-read meat thermometer register and internal temperature of 140 to 145 degrees F. (do not overcook, as the lobster will become tough and rubbery). When the lobster tails are defrosted, insert point of kitchen shears between the meat and the hard shell. At this stage, the lobster tails may be refrigerated until ready to bake. Cover with plastic wrap to prevent drying out. How to keep the tail straight: Lobster tails have the tendency to cur up when they are cooked. To avoid this, just place a bamboo skewer through the back of the tail and out the front
Gently pull the shells apart. Thread a skewer, starting at the underside base of the tail, along the inside of the bottom shell. Brush the meat with 1/4 cup of the clarified butter. Wrap the lobster tails in heavy-duty aluminum foil. Bake for 12 to 15 minutes or until the lobster meat is opaque. Place the remaining clarified butter in a butter warmer or dipping bowl. Remove the meat from the lobster shells and dip in the Clarified Butter. 
1 Split lobster tails in half lengthwise. 2  With cut side up and using scissors, cut along the edge of shell to loosen the cartilage covering the tail meat from the shell; remove and discard cartilage. 3  Pour water into a 13-in. 4  x 9-in. 5  baking dish; place lobster tails in dish. Directions. 1 
To cook four 8-ounce tails, bring 6 cups salted water to boiling in a 3-quart saucepan. Add the lobster tails. Simmer, uncovered, for 8 to 12 minutes or until shells turn bright red and the meat is tender when poked with a fork. For larger or smaller tails, adjust the cooking time as needed. Drain in a colander. 