Temperature in the Mesosphere. Temperature decreases with height throughout the mesosphere. The coldest temperatures in Earth's atmosphere, about -90° C (-130° F), are found near the top of this layer.
In the mesosphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. The upper boundary of the mesosphere is the mesopause, which can be the coldest naturally occurring place on Earth with temperatures below 130 K (−226 °F; −143 °C). The top of the mesosphere, called the mesopause, is the coldest part of Earth's atmosphere. Temperatures in the upper mesosphere fall as low as −100 °C (173 K; −148 °F), varying according to latitude and season.
Within the mesosphere, temperature decreases with increasing height. This is due to decreasing solar heating and increasing cooling by CO 2 radiative emission. The top of the mesosphere, called the mesopause, is the coldest part of Earth's atmosphere. Temperatures in the upper mesosphere fall as low as −100 °C (173 K; −148 °F), varying according to latitude and season.
Space. The atmosphere has 4 layers: the troposphere that we live in near the surface of the earth; the stratosphere that houses the ozone layer; the mesosphere, a colder and lower density layer with about 0.1% of the atmosphere; and the thermosphere, the top layer, where the air is hot but very thin. The temperature decreases with height here just like it does in the troposphere. This layer also contains ratios of nitrogen and oxygen similar to the troposphere, except the concentrations are 1000 times less and there is little water vapor there, so the air is too thin for weather to occur.
Best Answer: The troposphere begins at the Earth's surface and extends up to 4-12 miles high. As the gases in this layer decrease with height, the air become thinner. Therefore, the temperature in the troposphere also decreases with height. As you climb higher, the temperature drops from about 62°F to -60°F. http://www.srh.noaa.gov/srh/jetstream/at... Source(s): Strm Chsr07 · 8 years ago.
At about 55 km, the mesosphere begins. In the mesosphere, the temperature decreases with height again, because there is very little ozone to warm up the air. Finally, the mesopause divides the mesosphere from the thermosphere, which is the section of the atmosphere higher than 90 km. In this region, the temperature increases again! This time, it is molecular oxygen (O2) that causes the temperature increase.
The stratosphere, mesosphere and lowest part of the thermosphere are collectively referred to as the middle atmosphere, which spans heights from approximately 10 kilometres (33,000 ft) to 100 kilometres (62 mi). The top of the mesosphere, called the mesopause, is the coldest part of Earth's atmosphere. Temperatures in the upper mesosphere fall as low as −100 °C (173 K; −148 °F), varying according to latitude and season.
Mesosphere & Mesopause. Above the stratosphere's temperature peak at 50 km, temperatures fall precipitously. We are in the mesosphere or 'middle atmosphere'. At the base of the mesosphere the pressure is only 1/1000 of that at sea level and when the top is reached at 95 km it is a mere millionth. For practical purposes it is a vacuum
The atmosphere consists of 4 layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. Figure A shows the placement of the different layers of the atmosphere and how the temperature changes with height as you go from the ground up to space. The troposphere is the lowest layer of the atmosphere. The temperature decreases with height here just like it does in the troposphere. This layer also contains ratios of nitrogen and oxygen similar to the troposphere, except the concentrations are 1000 times less and there is little water vapor there, so the air is too thin for weather to occur.
The mesosphere extends from the stratopause to about 53 miles (85 km) above the earth. The gases, including the oxygen molecules, continue to become thinner and thinner with height. As such, the effect of the warming by ultraviolet radiation also becomes less and less leading to a decrease in temperature with height. 