1 Daniel Danny Fenton/Danny Phantom (voiced by David Kaufman) is the series' titular protagonist. 2  Danny and his friends are the unpopular kids, having jock bullies and quaint teachers. The first two seasons consists of 20 episodes, whereas the short third season consists of 13 episodes. Danny Phantom has received critical acclaim, with primary praises being for its ensemble cast and classic comic-book feel and style.
David Kaufman the guy who does the voice of Danny phantom he is really nice. 1  People & Blogs. 2  Standard YouTube License. David Kaufman the guy who does the voice of Danny phantom he is really nice. Category. License.
Danny Phantom centers on the life and adventures of Danny Fenton, an unpopular but good-natured 14-year-old boy attending Casper High School in the small town of Amity Park, CO. He lives with his eccentric ghost-hunting parents, Maddie and Jack, and his smart yet overbearing 16-year-old sister, Jazz (short for Jasmine). The first two seasons consists of 20 episodes, whereas the short third season consists of 13 episodes. Danny Phantom has received critical acclaim, with primary praises being for its ensemble cast and classic comic-book feel and style.
In  Identity Crisis, Danny, Sam, and Tucker check out Ember's file on Danny's computer, hinting he might have fought with Ember before the beginning of the episode, since Danny mentioned sending her back to the Ghost Zone. 1 Ember is one of the most famous characters of the show (right next to Danny himself Sam, Dani, and Dan Phantom). 2  Ember is the only character in the show to have her own 3 minute theme song which also turns out to be her first song on the show, Remember..
This is a list of cartoon characters from the Nickelodeon animated television series Danny Phantom. The series centers on young Danny Fenton and his coming-of-age story as a half ghost superhero to the town of Amity Park. Dani Phantom (AnnaSophia Robb / Daniella Monet) is an imperfect clone of Danny Phantom, created by Vlad as a stepping stone to the perfect Danny clone. Dani is also called Danny's cousin.
YAY!!! Danny Fenton is the main protagonist of the series of the same name, Danny Phantom. His parents research ghosts, and one of their inventions, a ghost portal, didn't work. Danny was dared by his friend Sam to go inside it, and when doing so accidentally turned it on, giving him ghost powers.
Dark Danny Phantom (also known as Dan Phantom; voiced by Eric Roberts) is a villain created by the fusion of the ghost-halves of Danny Phantom (the show's protagonist) and Vlad Plasmius (his arch-enemy) in an alternative timeline. Dani Phantom (AnnaSophia Robb / Daniella Monet) is an imperfect clone of Danny Phantom, created by Vlad as a stepping stone to the perfect Danny clone. Dani is also called Danny's cousin.
Danny Phantom is an animated television series created by Nickelodeon which debuted April 2004. It is one of the network's superhero shows. The show involves a kid who was half human and half ghost, after a lab accident with his father's unpredictable Fenton Portal. 