DEET was developed in 1944 by the United States Department of Agriculture for use by the United States Army, following its experience of jungle warfare during World War II. It was originally tested as a pesticide on farm fields, and entered military use in 1946 and civilian use in 1957. DEET is often sold and used in spray or lotion in concentrations up to 100%. Consumer Reports found a direct correlation between DEET concentration and hours of protection against insect bites.
Aerogard is an Australian brand of outdoor insect repellent, that is applied directly to the skin. It comes in aerosol sprays, bottled creams and roll-ons. Together with its sister product Mortein, a household insecticide, Aerogard has become something of a household name in Australia. 
Aerogard Roll On Tropical Strength contains DEET and other actives which repel mosquitoes, flies, sandflies, leeches, ticks and other annoying and biting insects for up to 6 hours. Aerogard Roll On Tropical Strength offers extra protection for you and your family against disease carrying insects. Repels insects for hours. Miscellaneous. Drug Interactions. Warnings. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Flammable until dry. Do not store or use near naked flame. Keep away from eyes and mouth.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30. Buy in bulk and save. Aeroguard Tropical Strength contains DEET and other actives which repel mosquitoes, flies, sandflies, leeches, ticks and other annoying and biting insects for up to 4 hours. The lotion also contains moisturising ingredients such as Aloe Vera for your skin. 
N,N-Diethyl-meta-toluamide, also called DEET (/diːt/) or diethyltoluamide, is the most common active ingredient in insect repellents. It is a slightly yellow oil intended to be applied to the skin or to clothing, and provides protection against mosquitoes, ticks, fleas, chiggers, leeches, and many other biting insects. DEET is often sold and used in spray or lotion in concentrations up to 100%. Consumer Reports found a direct correlation between DEET concentration and hours of protection against insect bites.
Please read the conditions below and check the box to enable purchase of this product. General Information. Aerogard Roll On Tropical Strength contains DEET and other actives which repel mosquitoes, flies, sandflies, leeches, ticks and other annoying and biting insects for up to 6 hours. Aerogard Roll On Tropical Strength offers extra protection for you and your family against disease carrying insects. 
What it does. Provides effective protection against mosquitoes, sandflies and leeches. Also repels march flies, ticks and other biting insects. Helps to protect you and your family against disease carrying insects including mosquitoes that may spread Ross River Fever and Dengue Fever. 
Insect repellents-guidelines for safe use. DEET (Diethyltoluamide, N,N-diethyl - 3- methylbenzamide) remains the gold standard of currently available insect repellents. It is a broad spectrum agent that is effective against mosquitoes, biting flies, fleas and ticks (1) . Guidelines for the safe use of insect repellents. 1  Read the entire label before use-look carefully at the level of DEET in the product (see tables below). 2  Use the repellent only as directed by the manufacturer. 3  Roll-on preparations are preferable to sprays. 4  Apply sparingly (lightly) to exposed skin.
1 Provides 6 hour protection against mosquitoes. 2  Also repels flies, sandflies, leeches, ticks and other annoying and biting insects. 3  Great for outdoor adventures like camping, fishing, and bushwalking/trekking. 4  Helps protect you and your family from disease carrying insects. 5  Classic Aerogard Tropical Strength scent. 1 Also repels flies, sandflies, leeches, ticks and other annoying and biting insects. 2  Great for outdoor adventures like camping, fishing, and bushwalking/trekking. 3  Helps protect you and your family from disease carrying insects. 4