The Uses of Sodium Nitrate-NaNo3. Sodium nitrate-NaNo3 has been used industrially in a number of work fields ranging from agriculture to food industry. Serving the agricultural purposes, Sodium nitrate-NaNo3 is used to make fertilizers. Sodium nitrate-NaNo3 is also known as Chile saltpeter or Peru saltpeter since the compound is found in large amount in these two countries. Among the other nitrate minerals, Sodium nitrate-NaNo3 is found to be the most abundant category.
Sodium Nitrate Sodium nitrate was one of the first commercially available inorganic nitrogen (N) fertilizers. It was very important in plant nutrition before the discovery of ammonia synthesis by the Haber-Bosch process in the early 1900’s. Sodium nitrate can be broadcast onto the soil surface or applied in a concentrated band on top, or beneath the soil surface. This source of N is not susceptible to volatile losses, so it can provide added flexibility compared to ammonium and urea-containing N
Sodium nitrite is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Na NO2. It is a white to slightly yellowish crystalline powder that is very soluble in water and is hygroscopic. The main use of sodium nitrite is for the industrial production of organonitrogen compounds. It is a reagent for conversion of amines into diazo compounds, which are key precursors to many dyes, such as diazo dyes. Nitroso compounds are produced from nitrites.
Sodium nitrate-NaNo3. is a compound with solubility in water characteristic and often refered to as sodium saltpeter or soda niter. Sodium nitrate-NaNo3 is also known as Chile saltpeter or Peru saltpeter since the compound is found in large amount in these two countries. Among the other nitrate minerals, Sodium nitrate-NaNo3 is found to be the most abundant category. The Nature of Sodium Nitrate-NaNo3
1 Sodium nitrate is a type of salt, naturally found in Chile and Peru. 2  It can also be created in a lab. 3  Sodium nitrite is also a type of salt, but is not found naturally and is created in a lab or as a byproduct of two other chemical reactions (i.e. when sodium nitrate is added to food and reacts with existing chemicals). In reference to food, “nitrate” really means sodium nitrate, but should really refer to sodium nitrite. While these are two completely different chemical compounds, they are often used interchangeably by those outside of the science realm. 1  Sodium nitrate is a type of salt, naturally found in Chile and Peru
Sodium nitrate is the chemical compound with the formula Na N O 3. This salt is also known as Chile saltpeter or Peru saltpeter (due to the large deposits found in the Atacama desert in these countries) to distinguish it from ordinary saltpeter, potassium nitrate. Sodium nitrate should not be confused with sodium nitrite, which is also a common food additive and preservative used for example, in deli meats. Less common applications include as an oxidizer in fireworks replacing potassium nitrate commonly found in black powder and as a component in instant cold packs.
It is a readily available source of the nitrate anion (NO 3 −), which is useful in several reactions carried out on industrial scales for the production of fertilizers, pyrotechnics and smoke bombs, glass and pottery enamels, food preservatives (esp. meats), and solid rocket propellant. Sodium nitrate should not be confused with sodium nitrite, which is also a common food additive and preservative used for example, in deli meats. Less common applications include as an oxidizer in fireworks replacing potassium nitrate commonly found in black powder and as a component in instant cold packs.
A mixture of sodium nitrate, calcium nitrate and potassium nitrate is used as energy storage material in prototype plants, such as Andasol Solar Power Station and the Archimedes project. It is also used in the wastewater industry for facultative microorganism respiration. Sodium nitrate should not be confused with sodium nitrite, which is also a common food additive and preservative used for example, in deli meats. Less common applications include as an oxidizer in fireworks replacing potassium nitrate commonly found in black powder and as a component in instant cold packs.
Other Characteristics. The nitrate ion is a polyatomic ion with the molecular formula [NO3]- and is the conjugate base of nitric acid. Almost all inorganic nitrate salts are soluble in water at standard temperature and pressure. A common example of an inorganic nitrate salt is potassium nitrate (saltpeter). Nitrate compounds have a wide range of uses which rely on their activity as oxidizing agents, the presence of freely available nitrogen, or their high solubility. In general, nitrate and nitrite salts with redox-active cations are more reactive with organic materials and reducing agents at ambient conditions. Redox-active cations are transition metals and the metals in group 3a, 4a, and 5a of the periodic table as well as the ammonium cation [NH4]+.