Alport syndrome or hereditary nephritis is a genetic disorder characterized by glomerulonephritis, end-stage kidney disease, and hearing loss. Alport syndrome can also affect the eyes, causing eye abnormalities including cataracts, lenticonus, kerataconus, as well as retinal flecks in the macula and mid-periphery. Visibly bloody urine and protein in the urine are common features of this condition.
*Alport syndrome facts medical author: Melissa Conrad Stoeppler, STöPPLER. 1  Md alport syndrome is a (genetic) inherited. 2  Disease signs and symptoms Of alport syndrome include hearing, loss eye, problems and blood in the, urine signifying loss of kidney. 3  Function alport syndrome occurs in 1 out 50,000 50000.  newborns 1 Signs and symptoms of Alport syndrome include hearing loss, eye problems, and blood in the urine, signifying loss of kidney function. 2  Alport syndrome occurs in 1 out of 50,000 newborns. 3  Mutations in the genes COL4A3, COL4A4, and COL4A5 cause Alport syndrome.
Diagnosis. Alport syndrome is diagnosed with a medical evaluation and family history, together with a kidney biopsy that can detect changes in the kidney typical of the condition. Urinalysis may reveal blood or protein in the urine. Blood tests can reveal a low platelet level. Causes and symptoms. Alport syndrome in most cases is caused by a defect in one or more genes located on the X chromosome. It is usually inherited from the mother, who is a normal carrier. However, in up to 20% of cases there is no family history of the disorder.
Early and accurate diagnosis is important for early intervention in Alport Syndrome, regardless of gender. “It is just as important to diagnose Alport Syndrome in girls as in boys,” according to Dr. Clifford Kashtan. In most cases, genetic testing can confirm a diagnosis of Alport Syndrome. Genetic testing is the only way to diagnose a female with no symptoms but with a family history of X-linked Alport Syndrome. Genetic testing may also be useful when results of a skin or kidney biopsy are not conclusive
Summary. Alport Syndrome (AS) is a disorder of the glomerular basement membrane, part of the glomerular filtration unit, and is the second highest cause of inherited chronic kidney disease (CKD) after polycystic kidney disease. Alport Syndrome can also cause hearing loss. About 1 in 5000 individuals are affected. 
The diagnosis of Alport Syndrome is performed using some or all of these methods: 1  Medical history and physical examination (urinalysis, blood testing). 2  Detailed family history and possibly urinalyses on first-and second-degree relatives. 3  Hearing and vision evaluation and testing. 4  Renal (kidney) ultrasound. 5  Kidney biopsy analysis. 6  Skin biopsy 7  .... G In most cases, genetic testing can confirm a diagnosis of Alport Syndrome. Genetic testing is the only way to diagnose a female with no symptoms but with a family history of X-linked Alport Syndrome. Genetic testing may also be useful when results of a skin or kidney biopsy are not conclusive.
Alport syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by kidney disease, hearing loss, and eye abnormalities. People with Alport syndrome experience progressive loss of kidney function. Almost all affected individuals have blood in their urine (hematuria), which indicates abnormal functioning of the kidneys. 
1 Alport syndrome is a genetic (inherited) disease. 2  Signs and symptoms of Alport syndrome include hearing loss, eye problems, and blood in the urine, signifying loss of kidney function. 3  Alport syndrome occurs in 1 out of 50,000 newborns. 4  Mutations in the genes COL4A3, COL4A4, and COL4A5 cause Alport syndrome. 1 Signs and symptoms of Alport syndrome include hearing loss, eye problems, and blood in the urine, signifying loss of kidney function. 2  Alport syndrome occurs in 1 out of 50,000 newborns. 3
Alport Syndrome always affects the kidneys. Many people with Alport Syndrome also have hearing problems and abnormalities of the eyes, because the type IV collagen proteins are important to the normal structure and function of the inner ear and the eye. Other signs and symptoms may include: 1  Blood in the urine (hematuria), the most common and earliest sign of Alport syndrome. 2  Protein in the urine (proteinuria). 3  High blood pressure. 4  Swelling in the legs, ankle, feet and around the eyes