Store wine: temperature. Best temperature to keep wine : The ideal temperature to keep wine is between 50 and 57°F (10 and 14°C). Wine needs a constant temperature all year round to mature. A fridge is not a suitable place to keep wine as vibrations will destroy some of its components. 
Wine Temperature. Lesson Objectives: Know how temperature affects a wine in storing and serving. Know the proper temperature to store / cellar your wine. Know which temperature will bring the best aroma out of a bottle of wine. Typical temperature for storing red wine ranges from 52ºF - 65ºF, and 45ºF- 50ºF for white wines. The wine serving temperature chart below recommends serving temperature for varietals. Go to Lesson 7: Ordering Wine in a Restaurant. Stay informed.
So, just to recap, red wines between 62-68 degrees optimal serving temperature, and white wines probably between 49-55 degrees. If you live in a house that is over 70 degrees, maybe put it in the fridge for 30 minutes before serving it, this is a red wine. And if you’re serving a white wine that you store in the fridge, maybe pull it out 30 minutes before you serve it. A lot of people have written us asking how to taste wine. If your wine is too cold, you won’t get any of the good stuff (or the bad… read: if it’s bad, cool it down) and if your wine is too hot is tastes like berries and sweaty laundry. View/Hide Video Transcript. Believe it or not the temperature of wine will effect the flavor…a lot. Here I have a wine at about 62-68 degrees.
What's the big deal about storing a wine at a certain temperature? Simply put, wine is a perishable good. Storing a fine wine at 100 will cause it to lose its flavor, while storing it at 0 will cause as much damage. The trick with wine is to store it at a stable, ideal temperature, and then to serve it at a temperature which best shows off its personal characteristics. If you serve a wine too cool, the flavors will all be hidden. It's like eating a frozen pizza while it's still frozen. So throw out the old refrigerate all whites, drink all reds at current room temperature adage. Here is a chart to indicate in general best temperatures for drinking wine at. Remember, though, that you also want to keep in mind the temperature of the room relative to this 'idea temperature'.
Wines stored at temperatures higher than 65°F can experience an accelerated aging process that will significantly shorten its lifespan. Alternatively, wine stored at colder than suggested temperatures (colder than 45°F) will not fully develop, robbing the wine of its full bouquet. If you plan on storing your wine bottles for longer than 6 months, then 55°F is the best temperature to store them at. 
If you plan to use a single-zone refrigerator for your various red and white wines, a temperature of 54 degrees Fahrenheit is best. Although each version has a more ideal temperature setting, 54 degrees Fahrenheit will not adversely affect the wine and will slow down the aging process. Dual-zone wine refrigerators can store two types of wine at two different temperatures. Set one compartment at a temperature between 50 and 65 degrees Fahrenheit for red wine and set the other between 45 and 50 degrees Fahrenheit for white wine. Store red wines for up to ten years and white wines for up to three years. 1  Adjust the Temperature Gradually, When Necessary
Storage Temperatures: Wine will age more quickly if stored at warm temperatures (70 degrees F or so). Fluctuations in temperature are not good for wine either. Therefore, it is best to store both red and white wines in the refrigerator, where you know they won't get warm or experience wild fluctuations in temperature.
Of course, if you store your wine in a wine cabinet at cellaring temperature (12 degrees), this is no longer necessary: just take it out 15 minutes prior to serving. If in doubt though, it’s always better to serve your reds a little cooler, as you can always warm up the glass in the palm of your hand. 