Clip a Snuza movement monitor onto your baby s diaper and you re good to go. Snuza will travel with you to ensure that your baby is monitored wherever you are. Unlike other movement monitors which are limited to use under a cot mattress. Snuza is mobile it can be use it at home in a carrycot wherever baby goes. If there is no movement sensed for 15 seconds, Snuza will gently vibrate to stimulate your baby. If no further movement is sensed within 5 seconds, an alarm will alert you to act. Snuza – Simple, Portable, Peace of Mind.
In this post I am going to consider whether or not the Snuza Hero is the best baby movement monitor available on the market in 2014. But, before considering that issue, I probably ought to briefly explain what baby movement monitors are and what they are used for. In short, a baby movement monitor is a device that is designed to detect if your baby has stopped moving during their sleep. If the monitor detects that your baby has stopped moving for a specified period of time (20 seconds in the case of the Snuza Hero), it sounds a warning alarm.
Parents experience the most anxiety when their new born comes home for the first time. You’re up every 10 to 15 minutes during the night, checking on your baby to see if there is movement. Snuza’s innovative baby movement monitors gives you the support when you need it most. Snuza is a leading manufacturer of portable baby movement monitors that ensures peace of mind for tired, anxious parents
Snuza Hero® baby monitor is a wearable device, which attaches to baby's diaper and monitors normal abdominal movement. The Snuza® Hero is a vibrating movement monitor and will vibrate after 15 seconds in an effort to cause resumption of abdominal movement, this is then followed by a loud alarm. 1 Hero is a mobile movement monitor so the sensor tip must always be in contact with the baby’s skin around the tummy area, as it moves around. 2  If this contact is lost, Hero will sound an alarm. 3  To prevent unnecessary false alarms caused by Snuza Hero not touching the baby: 4  Use the correct size diaper.
Read the basic tips for using your Snuza® Hero wearable movement monitor below. 1  Hero is a mobile movement monitor so the sensor tip must always be in contact with the baby’s skin around the tummy area, as it moves around. 2  If this contact is lost, Hero will sound an alarm. 1 Hero is a mobile movement monitor so the sensor tip must always be in contact with the baby’s skin around the tummy area, as it moves around. 2  If this contact is lost, Hero will sound an alarm. 3  To prevent unnecessary false alarms caused by Snuza Hero not touching the baby: 4  Use the correct size diaper.
Snuza Halo and Snuza Go are cordless baby movement monitors from the manufacturer Biosentronics. Both Snuza monitors are mobile, battery powered and while they may look almost identical, there are some crucial differences you should be aware of. 
1 Listen – activate a gentle clicker sound that let’s you know the Snuza® Hero is on. 2  Watch – movement-rate indicator lights warn you about weak or infrequent movement. 3  Vibration – after 15 seconds of no detected movement, Snuza® Hero gently vibrates to rouse baby. 1 Hero is a mobile movement monitor so the sensor tip must always be in contact with the baby’s skin around the tummy area, as it moves around. 2  If this contact is lost, Hero will sound an alarm. 3  To prevent unnecessary false alarms caused by Snuza Hero not touching the baby: 4  Use the correct size diaper.
Clip the Snuza Hero onto the waistband of your baby's diaper and switch on. Snuza Hero will detect your baby's every movement and will alert you if your baby's movements are very weak or fall to less than 8 movements per minute. If no movement is detected for a period of 15 seconds, then Snuza Hero will vibrate gently. 
Award-winning baby monitoring products. Snuza has a reputation for producing outstanding products and has received multiple awards in the United States. Our Snuza Hero monitor is an easy-to-use, cordless baby movement monitor that fits on the diaper. You’re up every 10 to 15 minutes during the night, checking on your baby to see if there is movement. Snuza’s innovative baby movement monitors gives you the support when you need it most.
It is this type of breathing movement that the Snuza Hero (and other similar models) are specifically designed to detect. So, if your baby stops breathing for specified period of time, you will be alerted to this fact by the monitor’s alarm. In short, a baby movement monitor is a device that is designed to detect if your baby has stopped moving during their sleep. If the monitor detects that your baby has stopped moving for a specified period of time (20 seconds in the case of the Snuza Hero), it sounds a warning alarm.