Once a sea turtle crawl is found, a team of turtle patrol volunteers assembles at the crawl location to find the eggs. If the nest is in an unsafe location, the nest will be carefully moved to a safer area on the beach.
There are seven species of sea turtles. They are the leatherback sea turtle, green sea turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, flatback sea turtle and olive ridley sea turtle.
Loggerhead, green, leatherback, hawksbill and Kemp's ridley sea turtles nest on beaches in the Florida Keys and other parts of Florida, or inhabit Florida and Keys waters. All five species are considered either threatened or endangered.
Do not push back into the water. Call the NMB Sea Turtle Patrol at 843-283-6670 or the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources Hotline at 1-800-922-5431. It is recommended that the turtle be shaded and wet towels placed on it’s carapace to avoid overheating.
Five species of sea turtles inhabit Florida's waters during some of the year. Florida's nesting sea turtles include the loggerhead (most common), #oe336bs, and leatherback (least common). During the summer months, there are approximately 50,000 sea turtles in Florida. This makes it the most important nesting area in the United States. Other species of sea turtles that frequent Florida waters but generally do not nest here include the Hawksbill and the Kemp's Ridley.
Along a 20-mile stretch of beach on the east coast of Florida, sea turtles lay over 150,000 lbs of eggs in the sand. Not every nest will hatch, not every egg in a nest will hatch, and not all of the hatchlings in a nest will make it out of the nest.
1 Do not approach a nesting sea turtle, eggs, or hatchlings. 2  Hatchlings do not need your help reaching the water. 3  If you happen upon hatchlings making their way to the water, remember not to touch them or interfere in any way.
1 Never move turtle eggs or disturb a nest. 2  If you dig holes in the sand or create a moat for a sandcastle, fill in the sand before leaving the beach. 3  Holes present unnecessary obstacles for the sea turtles. 4  Do not approach a nesting sea turtle, eggs, or hatchlings. 5  Hatchlings do not need your help reaching the water.