constitutional. adj. 1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) denoting, characteristic of, or relating to a constitution. 2. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) authorized by or subject to a constitution. 3. of or inherent in the physical make-up or basic nature of a person or thing: a constitutional weakness. 
A Constitutional Republic is a state where the officials are elected as representatives of the people, and must govern according to existing constitutional law that limits the government's power over citizens. A Constitutional Republic is the current form of government in the United States. However in recent years, many people have criticized the federal government for moving away from a Constitutional Republic, as defined by the Constitution, and towards a pure democracy.
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed. These rules together make up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is. Within states, a constitution defines the principles upon which the state is based, the procedure in which laws are made and by whom. Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, also act as limiters of state power, by establishing lines which a state's rulers cannot cross, such as fundamental rights.
Constitution is a noun, with the meanings 1. Law determining the fundamental political principles of a government 2. The act of forming or establishing something 3. The d … esign of an object or plan (from constituents, or parts) 4. Colloquially -- the physical condition or health of a person. A constitution is a fundamental, underlying document that lays out the rules and principles for the operation of the gorvenment of a nations or a states.
That a constitution exists that limits the government's power makes the state constitutional. That people can choose by election the head(s) of state and other officials (rather than those officials inheriting their positions) to represent them and make the laws makes the state a republic. A constitutional republic is a state in which the head of state and other officials are representatives of the people. They must govern to existing constitution.
Constitutional supremacy is a doctrine where by the constitution is  supreme and the government rule in accordance with the constitution  and at the same time the power of g … overnment is limited by the  Constitution in order to escape a type of tyrant of government, and  the rule of law is prevailing. A constitution is a fundamental, underlying document that lays out the rules and principles for the operation of the gorvenment of a nations or a states.
Report Abuse. A constitutional government is a government whose rules and policies are limited by a constitution. A constitution is a written document that describes the rules and principles of a political entity. In the United States, our constitution is appropriately called the Constitution
A constitutional government is any government whose authority and construction are defined by a constitution. The government need not be of a specific type, such as democratic, socialist, etc., but it does need to have parameters that are defined and relatively unchangeable. A constitution is a fundamental, underlying document that lays out the rules and principles for the operation of the gorvenment of a nations or a states.