Step 1: Create a bat file. 1. Create a folder named share and then share it. 2. Create a txt file and input net use e:\\SBSServer\share and save it as netuse.bat. 3. Copy the screen saver file screen saver.scr in this folder. Step 2: 3. Right Click the screen save Group Policy you created before and click Edit. 5. Double click Logon and click Add. 6. Input Script Name \\SBSServer\share\netuse.bat then click OK. 
What is a scr file and how do I open a scr file? SCR is the extension for a Windows screensaver file, typically stored in the main directory. It can be programmed to run automatically when a computer is inactive for a set time. SCR are executable files that can display vector graphic or text animations, play slide shows, animation, or videos, and may include sound effects.
When there is a problem with opening files with the extension .SCR you do not need to immediately use the services of the IT expert. In most cases, using the helpful suggestions of experts contained in our website as well as appropriate programs you can solve the problem with the .SCR file yourself. Text editor. mac. Run within the program that created the script. Text editor. .SCR. The file extension allows the operating system or the user of the device to recognize its format and use the appropriate program that allows to run it. It also happens that the file extension is associated with a number of different file formats
Did someone email you a SCR file and you're not sure how to open it? Maybe you have found a SCR file on your computer and wondering what it's for? Windows might tell you that you can't open it, or in the worst case, you might encounter a SCR file related error message. Before you can open a SCR file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the SCR file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect SCR file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating system. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your SCR file. In the case that your SCR file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit SCR file extensions.
Source code and script file type. Dangerous and malicious file type. Program executable file type. The scr file extension is generally used for scripts. These are used in plethora of programs for different purposes. Often you can simply view and edit these files using a simple text editor. Such files are also sometimes used to infect computers with Trojans and other viruses. 
@Frank D. Once you’ve created the .scr file what you need to do is right click on the file and choose install .. once done it will show up in the list of screensavers on your computer. Or what I do cause I’ve got a script that places files where they go the scr files go in windows system32. 
When a screensaver is distributed as a simple SCR file, You have to follow this procedure to install it on a computer: 1. Copy the SCR file in your system folder. This folder vary with Windows version: Windows XP/NT/2000 - C:\WINNT\SYSTEM32. Windows 95/98/ME-C:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM. 2. 
Instructions. Click on the Windows Start button, and then select Computer.. This will open Windows Explorer. Locate the SCR file on your hard drive by using the left-hand navigation pane. Double-click on the SCR file to open it. Windows automatically recognizes SCR files and will immediately start the screensaver contained in the file. SCR files are screensaver files that use a format proprietary to the Windows operating system from Microsoft Corporation. While Windows comes with a set of pre-installed SCR files, you can download additional screensavers from a variety of sources.