Oracle Application Testing Suite. In computing, a program is a specific set of ordered operations for a computer to perform. In the modern computer that John von Neumann outlined in 1945, the program contains a one-at-a-time sequence of instructions that the computer follows.
Software testing can also provide an objective, independent view of the software to allow the business to appreciate and understand the risks of software implementation. Test techniques include the process of executing a program or application with the intent of finding software bugs (errors or other defects). While white-box testing can be applied at the unit, integration and system levels of the software testing process, it is usually done at the unit level. It can test paths within a unit, paths between units during integration, and between subsystems during a system–level test.
There are many different types of software testing but the two main categories are dynamic testing and static testing. Dynamic testing is an assessment that is conducted while the program is executed; static testing, on the other hand, is an examination of the program's code and associated documentation. Dynamic and static methods are often used together. 
1 Regression testing: It is common to have a small test program built of a subset of tests, for each integration of new, modified, or fixed software, in order to ensure that the latest delivery has not ruined anything, and that the software product as a whole is still working correctly. While white-box testing can be applied at the unit, integration and system levels of the software testing process, it is usually done at the unit level. It can test paths within a unit, paths between units during integration, and between subsystems during a system–level test.
Software testing is an investigation conducted to provide stakeholders with information about the quality of the product or service under test. While white-box testing can be applied at the unit, integration and system levels of the software testing process, it is usually done at the unit level. It can test paths within a unit, paths between units during integration, and between subsystems during a system–level test.
It is what Microsoft call the process in which people can download pre release software and test it. It is reccommended for people that are competant with computers, a … s there is no Microsoft support provided and it is not gaurenteed to work. Hence the testing process. Testing of a computer program is necessary so that all users have  the same experience when using the program. Beta testing is the  name of this type of programming test.
1 The name of the programming assignment (e.g., Program 1). 2  Rationale behind chosen test cases (inputs). 3  Note that you MUST include some justification for each test case, even if it is something as simple as testing the program on odd or even numbers. 1 Pretend that you are an adversary trying to trick the program into giving the wrong answer. 2  For example, input sets should include zero or negative values even if the normal case is a positive number. 3  However, you are not obligated to test inputs that violate your stated assumptions.
Software testing is a process of executing a program or application with the intent of finding the software bugs. 1  It can also be stated as the process of validating and verifying that a software program or application or product: 2  Meets the business and technical requirements that guided it’s design and development. Let’s break the definition of Software testing into the following parts: 1) Process: Testing is a process rather than a single activity. 2) All Life Cycle Activities: Testing is a process that’s take place throughout the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) . 1  The process of designing tests early in the life cycle can help to prevent defects from being introduced in the code. 2  Sometimes it’s referred as “verifying the test basis via the test design” 
These notes are formulated for Prolog programming, for students taking COMP9414 Artificial Intelligence at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia, but many of the ideas can be applied to programming in functional or procedural languages. Testing your program is a necessary part of program creation. Except for trivial programs, testing can never prove that a program is correct. What testing does is to try to find errors in your code. No matter how many errors you find and fix, there may be more. Automating (Re-)Testing. In fact, for repeated testing of code as you modify it and add extra features (or for testing that your code works on more than one platform-e.g. at home and at work/university), the only reasonable thing to do is to use automated testing.