1 Heat the water in a glass mixing bowl in the microwave if you do not have a double boiler. 2  Place the butter in a mixing bowl that's slightly larger, and set it on top of the water-filled bowl to soften. While you can let the butter sit for hours to come to room temperature, you can also learn how to soften butter quickly. There are several methods you can use to soften butter, depending on how much time you have.
4. Let the butter sit on the double boiler just until softened, and then remove. 1  Heat the water in a glass mixing bowl in the microwave if you do not have a double boiler. 2  Place the butter in a mixing bowl that's slightly larger, and set it on top of the water-filled bowl to soften. While you can let the butter sit for hours to come to room temperature, you can also learn how to soften butter quickly. There are several methods you can use to soften butter, depending on how much time you have.
When I lived up north I was able to keep butter on the counter, but in Florida it gets too warm to leave it out. My sister showed me a way to soften a stick of butter in just a few minutes. Take a stick of butter and place it in a ziploc bag. Fill a bowl or container with warm water. Place the butter in the ziploc bag in the warm water. In a few minutes you will have soft butter that is easy to spread or use in a recipe
Many recipes for baked goods call for softened butter or butter that is at room temperature. Soft butter can blend into batter and dough more easily than hard butter. While you can let the butter sit for hours to come to room temperature, you can also learn how to soften butter quickly. There are several methods you can use to soften butter, depending on how much time you have.
The best thing to do to soften your butter is to put it out on the kitchen counter for an hour before you have to use it. But sometimes we don’t think that far ahead. One popular solution is to put the cold butter in the microwave for 10 to 20 seconds. The problem with microwaving butter is that the microwave can heat the butter unevenly, and tends to over-soften or even melt the butter in places. You want pliable butter for beating, not almost melting butter. Here’s a simple trick to soften butter quickly using some wax paper and a rolling pin.
Use these softening methods for both salted and unsalted butter. Softening Butter at Room Temperature. The easiest way to soften butter is to remove a cold stick from the refrigerator and let it stand at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes until it becomes room temperature or until just spreadable. 
Method. Just put the stick of butter between two large pieces of wax paper. Using a rolling pin, press down on the butter. Roll it out they way you would roll out a pie crust. When the butter is about 1/8 to 1/4-inch thick, lift off the wax paper and peel away the butter (before it gets too soft to peel). The problem with microwaving butter is that the microwave can heat the butter unevenly, and tends to over-soften or even melt the butter in places. You want pliable butter for beating, not almost melting butter. Here’s a simple trick to soften butter quickly using some wax paper and a rolling pin.
1. Leave the butter at room temperature. The best way to soften butter is to remove it from the refrigerator about 30 minutes before you need it and let it sit at room temperature. However, you will inevitably forget to do this from time to time. You can speed up the softening process by cutting the butter into chunks.
1 Set the butter over a warm water bath if you're in a real hurry. 2  Pour a few cups of very hot (just below boiling) water into a double boiler or a sauce pan with a metal bowl nested inside. 3  Put the butter over the water bath and allow to soften. 4  Keep an eye on it so the butter doesn't start to melt. 1 A few minutes on the counter and the butter will be up to room temperature. 2  Set the butter over a warm water bath if you're in a real hurry. 3  Pour a few cups of very hot (just below boiling) water into a double boiler or a sauce pan with a metal bowl nested inside.