The Seattle Boat Show is the largest boat show on the West Coast. The nine-day show features over 1,000 boats and yachts in two locations; more than three acres of marine accessories, electronics and boating gear; 450 exhibitors; 225 boating and fishing seminars; and entertainment. “The Seattle Boat Show has experienced an increase in large boat displays. In order to preserve this favorite attraction in our increasingly congested city center, more time is needed to safely move boats out of the building,” said eorge Harris, NMTA president.
The Seattle Boat Show, Indoors and Afloat, is the largest boat show on the West Coast and features a huge selection of boats. There are at least one thousand or more afloat at South Lake Union plus seminars and the latest boating products and marine accessories at the CenturyLink Field in Seattle, Washington. Information about the Seattle Boat Show was obtained from various sources and is thought to be correct. We strongly recommend that you contact the show producer to confirm this information. See the bottom of this page for informaiton on how to contact the show producers.
South Lake Union, Chandler's Cove The on-water venue is located at Chandler's Cove on South Lake Union. 901 Fairview Avenue North. Seattle, WA 98109 Click here for Driving Directions. The Seattle Boat Show includes two locations: indoors at CenturyLink Field Event Center and on the water at South Lake Union. The facility is situated at the corner of S. King Street and Occidental Avenue bordering Pioneer Square and the Chinatown/International District, south of downtown Seattle. CenturyLink Field is located directly north of Safeco Field. CenturyLink Field. 800 Occidental Ave.
The Seattle Boat Show is a marine extravaganza and the largest boat show on the West Coast. It features more than 1,000 recreational watercraft, seminars and the latest accessories indoors at CenturyLink Field Event Center, plus afloat on South Lake Union. Clipper Vacations is offering three customizable Seattle Boat Show packages, all of which include transportation to Seattle, a stay at a downtown Seattle hotel and admission tickets to the Seattle Boat Show.
Seattle Boat Show. The Seattle Boat Show is the West Coast's largest boat show, featuring more than 1,000 recreational watercraft, seminars and the latest accessories indoors at CenturyLink Field and afloat on South Lake Union. The event is held annually in January. Seattle Boat Show will close early for Super Bowl. Seattle Boat Show organizers decided to end the show a day early again this year so show-goers and exhibitors can watch the Seattle Seahawks in the
We can't wait to raise the sails on the 2016 Seattle Boat Show! Via The Seattle Times. Catch the wind and a workout by sailingThere’s a lot to it (for a beginner), but classes can get you out on the lake and into the wind.seattletimes.com. See More. Seattle Boat Show welcomes the America's Cup Tour to the Pacific Northwest! Come see America, a replica of the 1851 schooner that started it all, at one of it's many PNW ports of call now through August 23. Aug 15-16: Seattle, Bell Harbor Marina / Corinthian Yacht Club of Seattle.
Seattle Boat Show. Just two weeks left until most marine areas in Washington State close for recreational crabbing. Check out this fun and informative video put together by the Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife on how to properly and most effectively crab in Washington State waters. See More. Seattle Boat Show welcomes the America's Cup Tour to the Pacific Northwest! Come see America, a replica of the 1851 schooner that started it all, at one of it's many PNW ports of call now through August 23. Aug 15-16: Seattle, Bell Harbor Marina / Corinthian Yacht Club of Seattle.
The Seattle Boat Show, Indoors + Afloat, is the West Coast's Largest Boat Show featuring more than 1,000 recreational watercraft, seminars and the latest accessories indoors at CenturyLink Field, plus afloat on South Lake Union. SEATTLE BOAT SHOW ANNOUNCES 2016 SHOW DATES. 
For immediate release Seattle Boat Show Announces 2016 Show Dates SEATTLE –May 14, 2015 – The Northwest Marine Trade Association (NMTA) is pleased to announce the dates for the 2016 Seattle Boat Show at CenturyLink Field Event Center and South Lake Union. “The Seattle Boat Show has experienced an increase in large boat displays. In order to preserve this favorite attraction in our increasingly congested city center, more time is needed to safely move boats out of the building,” said eorge Harris, NMTA president.