1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. 1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years.
by FreeAdvice staff. A bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for up to 10 years, but many credit reporting agencies will remove it after 7. This is similar to the reporting period for late pays or delinquent accounts posted on your credit report, which is also 7 years. 
Chapter 13 Bankruptcy. The bankruptcy itself and the debts associated with the bankruptcy will be displayed differently on your credit report. A completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy will stay on your report for up to seven years, and discharged debts will also stay on the report up to seven years after they are discharged. Chapter 7 Bankruptcy. A completed Chapter 7 bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for up to ten years. Moreover, because all debts associated with a Chapter 7 bankruptcy are discharged within a few months of filing, they should drop off the report a few years before the bankruptcy itself.
According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a bankruptcy can only remain on your credit for up to ten years after your filing date. However, a Chapter 13 bankruptcy will typically be removed from your credit report after seven years. Keep in mind that the clock starts running when you file your case, not when you receive your discharge.
A Chapter 7 bankruptcy may display on your credit for 10 years from the date of filing. Chapter 13 may stay for 10 years also, but it is customary for those to be removed after 7 years. You will not qualify for a FHA until a chapter 7 has be discharged for 2 years. A chapter 13, you will only have to wait a minimum of 1 year from filing date. Seven years in Australia. Details of a bankruptcy order in the UK will stay on your credit file for 6 years. 7 to 10 years depending on the state you live in. Most lenders will consider loans after 2 years. If information is still on you credit history after this time frame you need to dispute with all three major credit bureau agencie
The good news is that a bankruptcy filing doesn’t stay on your credit report for eternity. A Chapter 13 bankruptcy filing typically stays on a credit report for up to 7 years, while a Chapter 7 bankruptcy filing usually stays on for up to 10 years. This doesn’t mean you won’t be able to get any credit during that time period, but it will likely be more difficult to find lenders or find great interest rates.
Depending on whether you file Chapter 7 or Chapter 13, the bankruptcy will fall off your report in ten or seven years. However, if none of your accounts are more than ten years old, a bankruptcy may effectively put you in the same spot as an 18-year old with no credit history. Chapter 7 Bankruptcy. A completed Chapter 7 bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for up to ten years. Moreover, because all debts associated with a Chapter 7 bankruptcy are discharged within a few months of filing, they should drop off the report a few years before the bankruptcy itself.
Chapter 7 will stay on your credit report for 10 years from the date bankruptcy was filed. Chapter 13 typically stays on your credit report for 7 years from the date the bankr … uptcy was filed, however, can remain on your credit report for 10 years. 3 people found this useful. You will not qualify for a FHA until a chapter 7 has be discharged for 2 years. A chapter 13, you will only have to wait a minimum of 1 year from filing date. Seven years in Australia. Details of a bankruptcy order in the UK will stay on your credit file for 6 years. 7 to 10 years depending on the state you live in. Most lenders will consider loans after 2 years. If information is still on you credit history after this time frame you need to dispute with all three major credit bureau agencies