The Levant is the eastern Mediterranean area now covered by Israel, Lebanon, part of Syria, and western Jordan. The Taurus Mountains are to the north; the Zagros Mountains, in the east, the Sinai peninsula, to the south. In antiquity, the southern part of the Levant or Palestine was called Canaan. The term Levant is not ancient, but the area covered and shown in these maps is. Like Anatolia or Orient, Levant refers to the area of the rising of the sun, from the perspective of the western Mediterranean.
The mountains are divided into many parallel sub-ranges (up to 10, or 250 km wide), and orogenically have the same age as the Alps. Iran's main oilfields lie in the western central foothills of the Zagros mountain range. The southern ranges of the Fars Province have somewhat lower summits, reaching 4000 metres. The mountains of the East-Zagros, the Kuh-i-Jupar (4135 m), Kuh-i-Lalezar (4374 m) and Kuh-i-Hezar (4469 m) do not currently have glaciers.
The Middle East is a large and diverse geographical area located in southwest Asia and northeast Africa. It extends over 2,000 miles from the Black Sea in the north to the Arabian Sea in the south, and about 1,000 miles from the Mediterranean Sea in the west to the mountains of Iran. The term “Middle East” came into common use in the early twentieth century, but remains loosely defined.
The Zagros Mountains in southwestern Iran present an impressive landscape of long linear ridges and valleys. Formed by collision of the Eurasian and Arabian tectonic plates, the ridges and valleys extend hundreds of kilometers. Stresses induced in the Earth’s crust by the collision caused extensive folding of the preexisting layered sedimentary rocks. If the rising plug of salt (called a salt diapir) breaches the surface, it can become a flowing salt glacier. Salt domes are an important target for oil exploration, as the impermeable salt frequently traps petroleum beneath other rock layers.
THE ZAGROS MOUNTAINS are a complex chain of mountains and ridges in the westernmost part of Iran. The range divides the region between the fertile plains of Mesopotamia and the Persian Gulf lowlands to the west, and Iran’s dry inland plateau to the east. Today, most Iranians live in the broad valley between the Zagros ranges and the Kuhrud Mountains, a parallel range about 186 mi (300 km)
Mesopotamia is bordered on the east by the Zagros Mountains of western Iran and eastern Turkey (elevation up to 15,000 feet), whose highland valleys were home to Elamite and Persian civilizations as well as later powerful nomadic confederations including the Bakhtiari. The Zagros are a rich source of stone and timber. It extends over 2,000 miles from the Black Sea in the north to the Arabian Sea in the south, and about 1,000 miles from the Mediterranean Sea in the west to the mountains of Iran. The term “Middle East” came into common use in the early twentieth century, but remains loosely defined.
Introduction The Zagros Mountains are located in western and southwestern Iran at the eastern edge of the Persian Gulf and are a part of the Alpine-Himalayan mountain chain that stretches across much of Southwest Asia and the Middle East (Figure 1). 
The tallest mountains, those over 14,850 ft (4,500 m), are located in the center of the range, including the tallest peak in the range, Zardeh Kuh (14,920 ft or 4,548 m). The Zagros range, in general, is characterized by sheer rugged peaks and steep canyons and gorges. Today, most Iranians live in the broad valley between the Zagros ranges and the Kuhrud Mountains, a parallel range about 186 mi (300 km) to the east.
This differential erosion formed the linear ridges of the Zagros Mountains. The depositional environment and tectonic history of the rocks were conducive to the formation and trapping of petroleum, and the Zagros region is an important part of Persian Gulf oil production. The mountains of the East-Zagros, the Kuh-i-Jupar (4135 m), Kuh-i-Lalezar (4374 m) and Kuh-i-Hezar (4469 m) do not currently have glaciers.
The Zagros mountain range begins in northwestern Iran and roughly corresponds to Iran's western border, and it spans the whole length of the western and southwestern Iranian plateau, ending at the Strait of Hormuz. The highest point in the Zagros Mountains is Dena. The mountains of the East-Zagros, the Kuh-i-Jupar (4135 m), Kuh-i-Lalezar (4374 m) and Kuh-i-Hezar (4469 m) do not currently have glaciers.