Paralytic shellfish poisoning: Introduction. Paralytic shellfish poisoning: Paralytic shellfish poisoning is caused by a different dinoflagellate with a different toxin, than that causing ciguatera ... more about Paralytic shellfish poisoning. Paralytic shellfish poisoning: Rare food poisoning from eating contaminated shellfish. 
Shellfish poisoning is caused by a group of toxins elaborated by planktonic algae (dinoflagellates, in most cases) upon which the shellfish feed. The toxins are accumulated and sometimes metabolized by the shellfish. The 20 toxins responsible for paralytic shellfish poisonings (PSP) are all derivatives of saxitoxin. Diarrheic shellfish poisoning (DSP) is presumably caused by a group of high molecular weight polyethers, including okadaic acid, the dinophysis toxins, the pectenotoxins, and yessotoxin.
Shellfish Poisoning Definition and Overview. Shellfish poisoning is a general term used to indicate poisoning that occurs when shellfish (mainly oysters, clams, scallops or mussels) are eaten by humans. Shellfish are usually associated with saltwater habitats, but some species inhabit freshwater. Both freshwater and saltwater shellfish may cause poisoning
DOH 332-058 October 2013 Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (“red tide”) What is paralytic shellfish poisoning? Paralytic shellfish poisoning (PSP) is a serious illness caused by eating shellfish contaminated with algae that contains a toxin harmful to humans. 
Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP), like ASP, is a life threatening syndrome. Symptoms are purely neurological and their onset is rapid. Duration of effects is a few days in non-lethal cases. 
Paralytic Shellfish Poison (PSP). Paralytic shellfish poison (PSP) is naturally occurring toxin, called a biotoxin, that is produced by some species of microscopic algae. PSP can concentrate in shellfish and, when eaten, can cause illness in humans. This biotoxin affects the nervous system and paralyzes muscles, thus the term paralytic shellfish poison. High levels of PSP can cause severe illness and death.
paralytic shellfish poisoning. Poisoning after ingestion of shellfish contaminated by toxic marine algae that produce saxitoxin. Saxitoxin alters cell membrane permeability to sodium ions. It causes numbness and tingling, nausea and vomiting, and, in severe intoxications, paralysis and respiratory failure. 
Paralytic shellfish poisoning (PSP) is one of the four recognized syndromes of shellfish poisoning, which share some common features and are primarily associated with bivalve mollusks (such as mussels, clams, oysters and scallops). PSP affects those who come into contact with the affected shellfish by ingestion. Symptoms can appear ten to 30 minutes after ingestion, and include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, tingling or burning lips, gums, tongue, face, neck, arms, legs, and toes.
Paralytic shellfish poisoning (PSP) is the most common and most severe form of shellfish poisoning. PSP is caused by eating shellfish contaminated with saxitoxins produced by dinoflagellates from Aelxandrium, Pyrodinium, and Gymnodinium genera. 