Mars is in the middle of an ice age, so liquid water cannot exist on its surface at the present time. However, the planet seems to have been warmer and wetter in the past. Winding channels that look like dry river beds have been seen in spacecraft images.
Cracks on Mars suggest the presence of water. Mars is in the middle of an ice age, so liquid water cannot exist on its surface at the present time. However, the planet seems to have been warmer and wetter in the past. Winding channels that look like dry river beds have been seen in spacecraft images.
Many Mars flybys and probes have found evidence of water on planet Mars. Mariner 9 found water erosion and deposition, weather fronts and fogs. Viking 2 landed on Mars in its winter season and found frost. The Mars Global Surveyor, which could detect ancient water, found that Mars has been dry for a very long time.
Water on Mars: Flowing salt water discovered on the Red Planet. NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has confirmed that mysterious lines on the surface of the planet are evidence of liquid water. CNET's Eric Mack spoke to the scientist behind the groundbreaking discovery. by Eric Mack @ericcmack /.
Scientists have for the first time confirmed liquid water flowing on the surface of present-day Mars, a finding that will add to speculation that life, if it ever arose there, could persist now.
Water on Mars exists today almost entirely as ice, though it also exists in small quantities as vapour in the atmosphere and occasionally as low-volume liquid brines in shallow Martian soil. The only place where water ice is visible at the surface is at the north polar ice cap.
Water still flows across the surface of Mars from time to time, NASA scientists said Monday, September 28. In the photo above, dark, narrow streaks called recurring slope lineae are seen flowing downhill on Mars. Scientists have inferred that they were formed by contemporary flowing water.
A NASA spacecraft circling Mars has found evidence of water on the Red Planet’s surface — liquid that flowed in our lifetime, not in some dim and more verdant past.