Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Dina means-Form of Hebrew Dinah. Judged and vindicated. In the bible Dinah was Jacobs only daughter.. Other origins for the name Dina include-Spanish, Israeli, Hebrew, English.The name Dina is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-Form of Hebrew Dinah. Judged and vindicated. In the bible Dinah was Jacobs only daughter
In French the meaning of the name Diana is: From the Greek goddess of the moon. Latin Meaning: The name Diana is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Diana is: Fertile. God, devine. Famous bearers: Diana was the Roman goddess of fertility and childbirth, of hunting, and the moon. 
Dina is a very popular first name for females (#583 out of 4276, Top 14%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#25374 out of 150436, Top 17%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Dina for girls. Dina's name origins are Hebrew and Old English, and the meaning of Dina is decoration; valley; justified; spear ruler. Dina is a variant transcription of Adena (Hebrew). Dina is also a variant of Dena (Old English): version of Deana and Dina
English Meaning: The name Dina is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Dina is: From the valley. American Meaning: The name Dina is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Dina is: From the valley. Hebrew Meaning: The name Dina is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Dina is: Avenged. Judged and vindicated. Famous bearer: biblical Dinah, Jacob's only daughter. Spanish Meaning: The name Dina is a Spanish baby name
Dina is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Di-na. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1512 in baby name popularity for girls with 144 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
Origin and meaning of Dina. 5 5. The meaning of Dina is  Judged . Its origin is  Variant of the Hebrew name Dinah . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 1,429th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. This is a variant spelling of the Hebrew name Dinah
Origin of the name Dina: Derived from the Hebrew dīnāh (judged). The name Dinah is borne in the Bible by a daughter of Jacob. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Dina /di-na/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Dina's name origins are Hebrew and Old English, and the meaning of Dina is decoration; valley; justified; spear ruler. Dina is a variant transcription of Adena (Hebrew). Dina is also a variant of Dena (Old English): version of Deana and Dina
The meaning of Dina has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Dina are: 1  Hebrew meaning:God has judged. 2  Spanish meaning: Varient form of names ending in dina. 