Etymology. The name lactone derives from the ring compound called lactide, which is formed from the dehydration of 2-hydroxypropanoic acid (lactic acid) CH 3 -CH(OH)-COOH. Lactic acid, in turn, derives its name from its original isolation from soured milk (latin: lac, lactis). Hydrolysis. Heating a lactone with a base (sodium hydroxide) will hydrolyse the lactone to its parent compound, the straight chained bifunctional compound. Like straight-chained esters, the hydrolysis-condensation reaction of lactones is a reversible reaction, with an equilibrium.
Glucono delta-lactone (GDL), also known as gluconolactone, is a food additive with the E number E575 used as a sequestrant, an acidifier, or a curing, pickling, or leavening agent. It is a lactone (cyclic ester) of. - gluconic acid. Pure GDL is a white odorless crystalline powder. It is metabolized to glucose; one gram of GDL yields roughly the same amount of metabolic energy as one gram of sugar. Upon addition to water, GDL is partially hydrolysed to gluconic acid, with the balance between the lactone form and the acid form established as a chemical equilibrium.
lactone (lakˑ·tōn) , n a compound with a high molecular mass that comprises an ester linked to a ring structure of carbon atoms. Significant members of this group are coumarin and its derivatives. It is found in expressed oils and some absolutes. It has been used as an anticoagulant, sedative, and antipyretic.
A lactone is a cyclic ester in organic chemistry. It is the condensation product of an alcohol group and a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule. Hydrolysis. Heating a lactone with a base (sodium hydroxide) will hydrolyse the lactone to its parent compound, the straight chained bifunctional compound. Like straight-chained esters, the hydrolysis-condensation reaction of lactones is a reversible reaction, with an equilibrium.
lactone. (lăk′tōn′). n. A cyclic ester, or a compound containing a cyclic ester, formed by the intramolecular condensation of a hydroxy carboxylic acid. lac·tone
(The “lactone” part of this ingredient’s name made him suspicious.) Glucono delta lactone is an ingredient in many foods, functioning as a substitute for enzymes in cheese processing or tofu manufacturing; or as a leavening acid in bakery products. It is prepared by microbial (bacteria or yeast) fermentation of a carbohydrate source. Additional processing or chemical reactions are not involved in manufacturing glucono delta lactone. Corn is (and always has been) the major commercial source.
The reduction reaction will first break the ester bond of the lactone, and then reduce the carboxylic acid group (-COOH) to the alcohol group (-OH). For instance, gamma-lactones will be reduced to butan-1,4-diol, (CH 2 (OH)-(CH 2) 2 -CH 2 (OH). The first carbon atom after the carbon in the-COOH group on the parent compound is labelled α, the second will be labeled β, and so forth. Therefore, the prefixes also indicate the size of the lactone ring: α-lactone = 3-membered ring, β-lactone = 4-membered, γ-lactone = 5-membered, etc.
Explanatory note. Glucono-delta-lactone is a compound (specifically, an ester) of gluconic acid. In the course of dessication and the associated accumulation of heat, it accrues naturally for example in raisins or in other foods that contain gluconic acid. One may obtain glucono-delta-lactone by subjecting gluconic acid to evaporation. Gluconic acid is produced from dextrose (glucose). The conversion of glucose to gluconic acid can be achieved with the aid of enzymes or by the fermentation with certain moulds.
Uses: Glucono Delta Lactone is used as a substitute for certain enzymes in cheese processing or tofu manufacturing. It can also be used in curing and pickling and as a leavening agent in baking. 