Potassium pills only provide potassium, but bananas also provide a variety of other nutrients. Each medium banana contains 12 percent of the daily value for fiber, 17 percent of the DV for vitamin C, 22 percent of the DV for vitamin B-6 and 16 percent of the DV for manganese.
You'd have to eat more than eight bananas to get a full day's worth of potassium. Potassium pills make it easier to consume higher doses of potassium, which is why there can be a risk of potassium toxicity when taking these supplements.
It helps your nerves and muscles work as they should. The right balance of potassium also keeps your heart beating at a steady rate. A potassium level that is too high or too low can be dangerous. If your levels are high or low, you may need to change the way you eat. You can control the amount of potassium you get in your diet by being aware of which foods are low or high in potassium.
To make sure you can safely take potassium chloride, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  kidney disease; 2  heart disease or high blood pressure; 3  a blockage in your stomach or intestines; or. 4  chronic diarrhea (such as ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease).
Potassium. 1  Where can I find a dietitian who works with kidney disease or high potassium blood levels? 2  My friend decided to take large doses of potassium. 3  If you eat a lot of fruit before your menstrual cycle, do you retain as much water because the potassium does something to the salt? 4  I have been taking Lasix, a high blood pressure pill. 5  Does ...
Bananas aren't likely to cause any adverse effects. Potassium supplements, however, can cause side effects such as nausea, diarrhea, stomach irritation, slowed heart rate, muscle weakness and abnormal heart rhythms.
On Losartan 50mg,BP normal/below,white coat syndrome,concerned about potassium build up. A) What is the best time of the day to take Losartan 50 mg. B) I have been taking Losrtan 50 mg ... taking Ramipril 10 mg at night and Amlodipine 10 mg in the morning. D) Last week all tests-Treadmill ...
Over-the-counter potassium supplements, however, only contain 3 percent of the daily value for potassium in each pill, which is equal to 99 milligrams or 2.5 milliequivalents, which limits the risk of overdoses. Prescription pills, on the other hand, can have much higher levels of potassium.