This is just a sample salary certificate. You can use it to apply for credit card, if you're a salarried person. This is just a sample salary certificate. You can use it to apply for credit card, if you're a salarried person. 
Salary Certificate Format. A salary certificate is a key document issued by an employer authenticating the salary on which a person is employed in the organization, and its uses can vary. Advertisement. A salary certificate is a detailed and transparent document forming the basis for employee taxation. It gives complete information of the employee, designation, experience, promotions, salaries, etc. One must note a common misconception with regards to a salary certificate and a pay slip or a salary slip. While a salary certificate is issued for the period employed in a financial year, the latter is issued with respect to a specific month only.
Salaried employees must know the differences between Salary certificate and Salary letter. In most cases, salary certificate or salary letter come into picture when an employee thinks about how to overcome current or forthcoming financial crisis-personal debt, purchasing a car, buying a house are the common occasions. Varying definitions and meanings found for salary letter: 1. A salary letter can become a request letter from an employee to department head for releasing his / her salary. This is an internal correspondence (Memo) between employee and head of the institution. 2. Same as salary certificate but addressed to a particular Financial institution
Using a salary certificate template can make the process much easier. A salary certificate template can be used simply, by downloading and filling in the required information, or it can be customized to fit the needs of the organization. Customization can include adding text, images, or colors. In business, there are some important documents that are meant to be confidential because of the information they contain. A salary certificate is one of these documents. It is a document that provides validation for an employee that he or she works with the firm. Included on the document are important pieces of information such as date of employment, net and gross salary, and income tax figure
This salary certificate template is in linear format, and it is designed in Microsoft Word®. It is professionally designed for company use. It can be customized so that your company name and address is included on the form, with your business logo. In business, there are some important documents that are meant to be confidential because of the information they contain. A salary certificate is one of these documents. It is a document that provides validation for an employee that he or she works with the firm. Included on the document are important pieces of information such as date of employment, net and gross salary, and income tax figures
If approved by management, a certificate will be issued to employee in the subject line of Salary Certificate. This certificate can be submitted for Loan application to any financial institutions depending upon the relationship and interest. Usually its validity may remain for one year or less. Varying definitions and meanings found for salary letter: 1. A salary letter can become a request letter from an employee to department head for releasing his / her salary. This is an internal correspondence (Memo) between employee and head of the institution. 2. Same as salary certificate but addressed to a particular Financial institution