Tropical grassland animals (which do not all occur in the same area) include giraffes, zebras, buffaloes, kangaroos, mice, moles, gophers, ground squirrels, snakes, worms, termites, beetles, lions, leopards, hyenas, and elephants.
The grasslands are home to small animals and herbivores such as mice, groundhogs, weasels, rabbits and prairie dogs, as well as the carnivores that prey on them which include … coyotes, badgers, rattlesnakes, eagles, panthers, bobcats, lions, hawks, and owls.
Elephant Animals What are some animals of the grassland? Bison, coyotes, jack rabbits, pronghorn, gophers, squirrels, weasels, ferrets, foxes, badgers, zebras, giraffes, antelope, ostriches, snakes, and rodents are just a few examples of the animals you'll find in the grasslands.
Animals. Temperate grasslands have a low diversity of wildlife, but a high abundance of wildlife. In North America the dominant grazing animals are bison and pronghorn. Rodents include pocket gophers and prairie dogs. Carnivores include wolves, coyotes, swift foxes, badgers and black-footed ferrets.
Buffalo, wildebeest, plains zebra, rhinos, giraffes, elephants and warthogs are among other herbivores of the African savanna. Carnivores include lions, leopards, cheetahs, jackals, wild dogs and hyenas. Termites are especially abundant in the tropical grasslands of the world.
Habitat: grasslands Size: 1.4-2m head body; 67-100cm tail; 1m high; 117-250kg Adaptation: yellow-brown colour like sun-dried grass; can open its mouth wide and kill with one bite Diet: zebra, antelope, giraffe, wildebeest & buffalo Predator(s): man. LEOPARD ~ Agile Climber.
Temperate grasslands are located north of the Tropic of Cancer (23.5 degrees North) and south of the Tropic of Capricorn (23.5 degrees South). The major temperate grasslands include the veldts of Africa, the pampas of South America, the steppes of Eurasia, and the plains of North America.
Temperate grasslands have a low diversity of wildlife, but a high abundance of wildlife. In North America the dominant grazing animals are bison and pronghorn. Rodents include pocket gophers and prairie dogs. Carnivores include wolves, coyotes, swift foxes, badgers and black-footed ferrets.