On Dec. 4, I will be hosting the free Webinar,  How to Raise Emotionally Healthy Children to help parents, caretakers, teachers, and professionals learn valuable tools for dealing with their children's emotional struggles. 
To be emotionally healthy you must express your emotions in healthy, assertive ways. If you inhibit your emotions and feelings you cannot achieve emotional health. This means an emotionally healthy person is assertive. Emotional Wellness Definition: Emotional health is on a continuum and fluctuates moment by moment. Emotional Health Definition: Emotional health is defined by the degree to which you feel emotionally secure and relaxed in everyday life. An emotionally healthy person has a relaxed body, an open mind and an open heart. The more emotional health you have, the more self-esteem you have. This means you do not frequently react with knee jerk responses, anxiety or panic to the events that occur in your life
Emotional health is about being happy, self-confident, self-aware, and resilient. People who are emotionally healthy are in control of their emotions and behavior. They bounce back when bad things happen and can manage stress without falling apart. If your emotional health isn't as solid as you'd like it to be, here's the good news: there are many things you can do to boost your mood, build resilience, and get more enjoyment out of life.
All of the physical stuff like nutrition and exercise is easy ... it is the mental, emotional and spiritual parts that take the greatest effort. I hope everyone does their part to help boost other people's emotional health too. A simple thank you does wonders ... If you physically over-tax your body, say by overexerting yourself on a hot day or staying up for 24 hours with no sleep, you probably wouldn’t be surprised if it suddenly “breaks down.”.
Flexing your emotional muscles and keeping emotionally healthy is crucial to remaining resilient and healthy in everyday life, as well as helping you to increase your connections with others. Emotional intelligence is as important as mental intelligence in the workplace and in social settings. Flexing your emotional muscles and keeping emotionally healthy is crucial to remaining resilient and healthy in everyday life, as well as helping you to increase your connections with others. Ad.
Emotional Health. Emotional health is about being happy, self-confident, self-aware, and resilient. People who are emotionally healthy are in control of their emotions and behavior. They're able to handle life's inevitable challenges, build strong relationships, and lead productive, fulfilling lives. They bounce back when bad things happen and can manage stress without falling apart. If your emotional health isn't as solid as you'd like it to be, here's the good news: there are many things you can do to boost your mood, build resilience, and get more enjoyment out of life.
But a good parent must also focus on a child's emotional health as well. And while dealing with emotions may seem more taxing than the day-to-day challenges of parenting, raising children who are emotionally healthy may be easier than you think. All you have to do is love your child and be there for your child.
First, try to be more aware of your emotions and reactions. To help you do a better job of managing your emotional health, learn to identify and address the reasons for sadness, frustration and anger in your life. The box to the right gives some other helpful tips. 1 But before you get carried away by your emotions and say or do something you might regret, give yourself time to think. 2  Strive for balance in your life. 3  Make time for things you enjoy. 4  Focus on positive things in your life. 5  Take care of your physical health. 6  Your physical health can affect your emotional health.