Wounds are a result of injury to the skin. Although there are many different methods and degrees of injury, the basic phases of healing are essentially the same for most wounds. They are the inflammatory phase, the epithelialization phase, the proliferative phase, and the remodeling phase. 
Wound re-epithelialization: modulating keratinocyte migration in wound healing. Raja, Sivamani K, Garcia MS, Isseroff RR. An essential feature of a healed wound is the restoration of an intact epidermal barrier through wound epithelialization, also known as re-epithelialization.
In healing by first intention (primary union), restoration of tissue continuity occurs directly, without granulation; in healing by second intention (secondary union), wound repair following tissue loss (as in ulceration or an open wound), is accomplished by closure of the wound with granulation tissue. healing by first intention (healing by primary intention) wound healing in which restoration of continuity occurs directly by fibrous adhesion, without formation of granulation tissue; it results in a thin scar.
Warning. Wound-healing disorders interfere with natural epithelialization. Chronic wounds can be recognized by a loss of skin around the wound. Such wounds can result in serious medical complications and require immediate and intense medical intervention. When the skin is wounded, blood comes into contact with collagen that triggers blood platelets to secrete inflammatory factors. Homeostasis (stopping blood loss) takes place through the clotting cascade.
(i.e., healing of dehisced wound by granulation, contraction and epithelialization). : 1  Wound bed filled with granulation tissue to the level of the sur-rounding skin or new epithelium; no dead space, no avascular tissue; no signs or symp-toms of infection; wound edges are open. 
The directed migration of keratinocytes is critical to wound epithelialization and defects in this function are associated with the clinical phenotype of chronic non-healing wounds. Raja, Sivamani K, Garcia MS, Isseroff RR. An essential feature of a healed wound is the restoration of an intact epidermal barrier through wound epithelialization, also known as re-epithelialization.
Epithelialization is the natural act of healing dermal and epidermal tissue in which epithelium grows over a wound. When the skin is wounded, blood comes into contact with collagen that triggers blood platelets to secrete inflammatory factors. Homeostasis (stopping blood loss) takes place through the clotting cascade.
Auden, The Art of Healing. Wound healing is a natural restorative response to tissue injury. Healing is the interaction of a complex cascade of cellular events that generates resurfacing, reconstitution, and restoration of the tensile strength of injured skin. Healing by secondary intention involves generation of granulation tissue and epithelialization over it. Given the fact that angiogenesis and epithelialization take longer in secondary intention healing, these wounds are more prone to infection and poor healing.
In vivo wound healing is a complex repairing process orchestrated by intra-and intercellular pathways. To recover the integrity of the skin, this process is accomplished by four successive but overlapping stages: clotting, inflammation, re-epithelialization and remodelling. At the end, we discuss our model in the context of the skin wound healing in vivo. As the wound goes deeply into the dermis which is the case for most wounds, the two layers behave differently during re-epithelialization.
Healing by primary, or first intention. In primary wound healing there is no tissue loss. A, Incised wound is held together by a blood clot and possibly by sutures or surgical clamps. An inflammatory process begins in adjacent tissue at the moment of injury. healing by first intention (healing by primary intention) wound healing in which restoration of continuity occurs directly by fibrous adhesion, without formation of granulation tissue; it results in a thin scar.