Following the German annexation of Sudetenland, Czechoslovakia, efforts began to arrest Sudetenland residents who opposed the Nazi government. 11 Oct 1938. Wilhelm Keitel reported to Adolf Hitler, noting that the German military was poised to invade Czechoslovakia without needing much time to prepare. Hitler demanded Czechoslovakia to leave the Sudetenland area by 28 Sep 1938; Chamberlain expressed frustration that Hitler was now demanding more than what had originally been discussed; after some heated discussion, Hitler returned to the original demand of 
The successful annexation of Austria fueled Adolf Hitler's ambition, and he looked on to the German-populated regions of western Czechoslovakia, a region which the Germans called Sudetenland. Hitler demanded Czechoslovakia to leave the Sudetenland area by 28 Sep 1938; Chamberlain expressed frustration that Hitler was now demanding more than what had originally been discussed; after some heated discussion, Hitler returned to the original demand of 1 Oct 1938.
He was referring to the annexation of the German-speaking part of Czechoslovakia in 1938 when Hitler claimed he was merely trying to protect the ethnic German population in the area, a move that led eventually to the Second World War. If Putin annexes Ukraine, it would have echoes of Hitler's occupation of the Sudetenland in 1938 [AP/GETTY]. The West's failure has been trying to persuade him that the Sudetenland option is a mistake for Russia, but he is not getting the message Dr Jonathan Eyal.
The Sudetenland was relegated to Germany between 1 October and 10 October 1938. The Czech part of Czechoslovakia was subsequently invaded by Germany in March 1939, with a portion being annexed and the remainder turned into the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. Sudetenland consisted of three political districts: Eger (with Karlsbad as capital), Aussig (Aussig) and Troppau (Troppau). Shortly after the annexation, the Jews living in the Sudetenland were widely persecuted. Only a few weeks afterwards, the Kristallnacht occurred.
Hitler's claims for the Sudetenland was one of the direct precursors to the Second World War. The territory was officially annexed to Germany as part of the infamous Munich Agreement in September 1938 - the height of British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain's policy of appeasement. If Putin annexes Ukraine, it would have echoes of Hitler's occupation of the Sudetenland in 1938 [AP/GETTY]. The West's failure has been trying to persuade him that the Sudetenland option is a mistake for Russia, but he is not getting the message Dr Jonathan Eyal.
For the 1968 invasion, see Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. The German occupation of Czechoslovakia (1938–1945) began with the National Socialist annexation of Czechoslovakia 's northern and western border regions, known collectively as the Sudetenland, under terms outlined by the Munich Agreement. Meanwhile, Poland annexed the town of Český Těšin těšín with the surrounding (area some 906 km (2 350 sq)), mi 250,000 250000, Inhabitants poles made about36 % of, population and two minor border areas in Northern, slovakia more precisely in the Regions spiš And. orava
Adolf Hitler on the Sudetenland Crisis. In 1938, Adolf Hitler began to support the demands of Germans living in the Sudetenland region of Czechoslovakia who were seeking closer ties with Germany. The Nazi leader delivers a speech revealing Germany's desire to unite the two countries. 
The word Sudetenland only came into existence in the early 20th century, and only came to prominence after the First World War, when the German-dominated Austria-Hungary was dismembered and the Sudeten Germans found themselves living in the new country of Czechoslovakia. Sudetenland consisted of three political districts: Eger (with Karlsbad as capital), Aussig (Aussig) and Troppau (Troppau). Shortly after the annexation, the Jews living in the Sudetenland were widely persecuted. Only a few weeks afterwards, the Kristallnacht occurred.
Sudetenland was the western border of Czechoslovakia where nearly 3 million people spoke German. Sudetenland was later given to Germany by Great Britain due to the signing of … the Munich Agreement by Daladier and Neville Chamberlain on September 30, 1938 to avoid war. Hitler made his famous speech that Sudetenland should be part of Germany or they would invade Czechoslovakia.   On Sept. 22, 1938 the British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain flew to meet Hitler.
The four decided the fate for Czechoslovakia by granting Germany Sudetenland; the agreement was dated 29 Sep, but was not signed by Hitler, Chamberlain, Mussolini, and Daladier, in that order, until after midnight into 30 Sep. Hitler demanded Czechoslovakia to leave the Sudetenland area by 28 Sep 1938; Chamberlain expressed frustration that Hitler was now demanding more than what had originally been discussed; after some heated discussion, Hitler returned to the original demand of 1 Oct 1938.