Vitamin B1, also called thiamine, is a B complex vitamin. It is found in many foods and is vitally important to keeping a body operating properly. 
THIAMINE VITAMIN B1 Overview Information. Thiamine is a vitamin, also called vitamin B1. Vitamin B1 is found in many foods including yeast, cereal grains, beans, nuts, and meat. It is often used in combination with other B vitamins, and found in many vitamin B complex products. 1 Kidney disease in people with diabetes. 2  Early research shows that taking high-dose thiamine (100 mg three times daily) for 3 months decreases the amount of albumin in the urine in people with type 2 diabetes. 3  Albumin in the urine is an indication of kidney damage.
Overview. Vitamin B1, also called thiamine or thiamin, is one of 8 B vitamins. All B vitamins help the body convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which the body uses to produce energy. These B vitamins, often referred to as B complex vitamins, also help the body metabolize fats and protein. 
Thiamine was the first B vitamin to be discovered by scientists… hence the “1”. Like the other B vitamins, thiamin is water-soluble and helps the body turn food into energy. You can find it in a variety of foods, as an individual supplement, and in multivitamins. Thiamine is an essential nutrient, and all the tissues of the body, including the brain, need thiamine to function properly. The body needs thiamine to make adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a molecule that transports energy within cells.
Thiamine is vitamin B1. Thiamine is found in foods such as cereals, whole grains, meat, nuts, beans, and peas. Thiamine is important in the breakdown of carbohydrates from foods into products needed by the body. Thiamine is used to treat or prevent vitamin B1 deficiency. 
Vitamin B1, also known as Thiamine or Thiamin, is a water-soluble vitamin of the B complex. 1 deficiency where people drank at least one liter of tea per day or chewed on fermented tea leaves for many years. Vitamin B1, also known as Thiamine or Thiamin, is a water-soluble vitamin of the B complex. We need vitamin B1 so that our body can use carbohydrates as energy-it is essential for glucose metabolism.
Thiamine deficiency (beriberi) results when your body does not have enough of the vitamin thiamine. Your body requires thiamine to help it break down different types of sugar. Without enough thiamine, you may experience a variety of symptoms that can be serious. 
Thiamine, thiamin or vitamin B1 (/ˈθaɪ.əmɨn/ THY-ə-min), named as the thio-vitamine (sulfur-containing vitamin) is a vitamin of the B complex. First named aneurin for the detrimental neurological effects if not present in the diet, it was eventually assigned the generic descriptor name vitamin B 1. Polioencephalomalacia (PEM) is the most common thiamine deficiency disorder in young ruminant and nonruminant animals. Symptoms of PEM include a profuse, but transient, diarrhea, listlessness, circling movements, star gazing or opisthotonus (head drawn back over neck), and muscle tremors.
Dietary sources of thiamine include beef, brewer's yeast, legumes (beans, lentils), milk, nuts, oats, oranges, pork, rice, seeds, wheat, whole-grain cereals, and yeast. In industrialized countries, food made with white rice or white flour is often enriched with thiamine. Thiamine was one of the first compounds recognized as a vitamin. Thiamine is involved in many body functions, including nervous system and muscle function, the flow of electrolytes in and out of nerve and muscle cells, digestion, and carbohydrate metabolism.
Thiamine is vitamin B1. Thiamine is found in foods such as cereals, whole grains, meat, nuts, beans, and peas. Thiamine is important in the breakdown of carbohydrates from foods into products needed by the body. Thiamine is used to treat or prevent vitamin B1 deficiency