You can attract them byadapting your yard to their habitat needs. Native species In the Pacific Northwest, there are about 50 native species of herps.Half are amphibians (frogs, toads, salamanders, and newts), and half arereptiles (snakes, lizards, and turtles). Some of the more common speciesyou might attract to your yard are alligator lizards, fence lizards, gartersnakes, chorus frogs, red-legged frogs, and salamanders.Some herp species are brightly colored, such as painted turtles oryoung western skinks with their bright blue tails.
Best Answer: You don't need to attract them to your yard. You can catch lizards easily with a fishing pole. Tie a nylon monofilament line to one of the line guides, pull a loop of line out of the guide at the tip, and run the line back down through the guides to the base of the pole where you can grasp it. 
I really love lizards. I want to know how to attract them in my yard. What kind of plants do they like and what food and shelter do they like. Thankx. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel
Create a backyard that is inviting to lizards to attract reptile wildlife and observe their natural behavior. Lizards, in general, like dry ground and sun-absorbing surfaces -- such as rocks and broken terracotta pottery -- to hide under or sit atop and warm up. While all require rocks and foliage in their habitats, the amount and kind needed vary by species. All use rocks for sunning and hiding, yet fence lizards also scramble up vertical surfaces, such as rocky outcroppings, tree trunks, walls, woodpiles and wooden fences to escape predators or soak up the sunshine.
Attract lizards to gardens in the lower North Island. Gardeners in the lower North Island can make a difference by creating habitats for lizards to flourish. Suburban backyard video Learn the kind of wildlife you might find in your own garden, and how to turn it into a haven for birds, lizards and weta. Reptiles and frogs The herpetofauna animal group includes reptiles and frogs. New Zealand has tuatara, geckos, skinks, and four species of native frog. Ferns, tussock grasses and rengarenga provide thick ground cover and attract insects for the lizards to eat. Plants like speargrass and the shrubby tororaro offer protection from predators. Vines like New Zealand clematis and climbing rata connect habitats, and cabbage trees form in clumps for good cover.
to attract a lizard get spinach and place it by the place where you think the lizard is. soon it should come out. another way is to dig a deep hole and then come back to the h … ole the next day and there should be a lizard(s). Yes, some species of lizard will eat smaller lizards. Some, such as Komodo dragons will eat the young of their own kind. + 61 others found this useful. Jessica McCarthy. Edit. Share to: 1  Finding the Best Price for a Savannah Monitor Lizard Savannah monitor lizards are generally very cheap to buy as babies.
No matter what type of lizard you have in your home, the methods for avoiding them and dispatching them are the same. Below are just a few examples of house lizards. Green anoles are harmless lizards that grow from 5 to 8 inches long. They can change their color from shades of green to brown to gray. 
Lizards are quick little critters, as you've probably learned before when you tried to chase one. It's a lot easier to get lizards to move where you want them to go instead of darting to and fro when you have a friend helping you herd them in a certain direction. 1  Walk toward the lizard in the direction of the exit. 2  Have your friend block the most likely place where the lizard will try to run. Lizards go where they can find food-which, for them, means insects. If you have a big insect population in your house, lizards will start to gather there. Keeping your house clean is the best way to keep insects out.
Insects are the primary diet of most lizards, including alligator species. Three main species of coastal lizards are the western fence, northern alligator and western skink lizards. While all require rocks and foliage in their habitats, the amount and kind needed vary by species. All use rocks for sunning and hiding, yet fence lizards also scramble up vertical surfaces, such as rocky outcroppings, tree trunks, walls, woodpiles and wooden fences to escape predators or soak up the sunshine.