How much does a website cost? Your website will cost around $60. This is made up of $11 for your domain name and $48 for your website hosting. The actual software that you build your website with that is supplied by your website hosting company is complimentary and doesn’t cost anything. The first step in making a website is to choose your domain name. A domain name is what you are going to call your website. To get a domain you have to register that name each year for a fee. www.make-a-web-site.com is my
Every website needs a domain name to be hosted online. You can either buy a brand new domain name, or purchase one that’s been registered for a while. 1  Brand new domains will cost about $10-15 a year, depending on registrar and TLD. 2  Registrar is the company like GoDaddy, BlueHost, etc. 3  TLD refers to: .com, .org., .net. While shared hosting can be as low as $50 per year, moving to a VPS (virtual private server) or a dedicated server can easily bump up the yearly price tag to over $1,000. After choosing your domain and hosting, it’s time to consider your web design.
At minimum, you need to invest in your own domain name and hosting. Depending on the type of domain name you choose, the costs could run from just $10 a year, to hundreds or even millions ! The options for website hosting run the gamut in price as well. For a new website, shared hosting is probably sufficient. But as your traffic starts to grow, so will your hosting needs and budget. While shared hosting can be as low as $50 per year, moving to a VPS (virtual private server) or a dedicated server can easily bump up the yearly price tag to over $1,000. After choosing your domain and hosting, it’s time to consider your web design.
Step 2: Get a Web Host. A web host (or hosting provider), is a company that makes your website available for the world to see. They have the equipment and technical skills to make sure your website is available to the world, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Prices can range from between $10 to $15 up to as much as $35 or even $45 (this is for the same product!). ZappyHost has some of the best prices on the web-and if you purchase hosting at the same time, the domain name is even cheaper ($1.99 at time of writing).
Domain Names. You pay for domain names yearly and most registrars will give you a discount if you pay for multiple years. For example, WebsitePalace.com charges $13.99 for one year of registration. But if you register the domain name for 10 years in advance, it will only cost you $8.99 per year. Most registrars provide discounts for registering multiple years up front. Learn how to save on costs and get a domain for only $1.99 here. Hosting is generally a monthly fee. At WebsitePalace.com it's $3.99 per month for their smallest plan and the amount of space you receive is more than enough for the average customer. The nice thing about most web hosting plans is that you can easily upgrade to a higher package if you should need it.
I've been creating websites since 1996. If you need to create a website, but don't know where to start, you've come to the right place! Here, I explain how to create a website. I also explain how to get your own domain name (eg, www.yourname.com), and how to host your website (make it available to the world). Creating a website is much easier than you might think. Prices can range from between $10 to $15 up to as much as $35 or even $45 (this is for the same product!). ZappyHost has some of the best prices on the web-and if you purchase hosting at the same time, the domain name is even cheaper ($1.99 at time of writing).
Domain names at my company Website Palace costs $13.99/yr and hosting starts at $6.99 per month. You can always upgrade your hosting package later if you wish, but I will say that if you choose either of the two higher end packages, you can create an unlimited number of sites on one account. I used to recommend buying various software to create a website. Now, I see no reason to use it. Thanks to WordPress (which comes free with paid hosting), you don't need it. WordPress comes with templates and thousands of them are completely free.
Per Page Pricing. Some web designers charge a flat rate per page, this can be as low as $50 although most designers in the USA will charge $100 – $200 per page. This pricing is usually for basic static brochure web sites that do not require a lot of custom features. 
1) A domain name (anyname.com). 2) A web host (the company that stores your files and web pages). Now, if you're looking for a free website, you're not going to find any recommendations here because that is quite honestly a bad move. Here's why I don't recommend free web hosting. I used to recommend buying various software to create a website. Now, I see no reason to use it. Thanks to WordPress (which comes free with paid hosting), you don't need it. WordPress comes with templates and thousands of them are completely free.