Dr Yuranga Weerakkody ◉ and Radswiki et al. Cardiac tamponade is the result of accumulation of fluid, pus, blood, gas, or benign or malignant neoplastic tissue within the pericardial cavity, which can occur either rapidly of gradually over time, but eventually results in impaired cardiac output. 
Cardiac tamponade: A life-threatening situation in which there is such a large amount of fluid (usually blood) inside the pericardial sac around the heart that it interferes with the performance of the heart. If cardiac tamponade is left untreated, the result is dangerously low blood pressure, shock, and death. The excess fluid in the pericardial sac acts to compress and constrict the heart. Cardiac tamponade can be due to excessive pericardial fluid, a wound to the heart, or rupture of the heart. 
1. Cardiac tamponade is caused by the accumulation of blood, fluid, pus, clots, or gas in the pericardial space, resulting in reduced ventricular filling and subsequent haemodynamic compromise. Cardiac tamponade is a medical emergency. 1  Cardiac tamponade is rare. 0. 
Overview. Cardiac tamponade is a serious medical condition in which blood or fluids fill the space between the sac that encases the heart and the heart muscle, placing extreme pressure on the heart. The resulting pressure prevents the heart's ventricles from expanding fully and keeps the heart from functioning properly. The treatment of cardiac tamponade is generally twofold: relieving pressure on your heart and then treating the underlying condition. Initial treatment involves getting you stabilized. Your doctor will also drain the fluid from your pericardial sac, typically with a needle in a procedure called pericardiocentesis.
Cardiac tamponade is pressure on the heart muscle which occurs when the pericardial space fills up with fluid faster than the pericardial sac can stretch. If the amount of fluid increases slowly (such as in hypothyroidism) the pericardial sac can expand to contain a liter or more of fluid prior to tamponade occurring. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cardiac tamponade, also known as pericardial tamponade, is an acute type of pericardial effusion in which fluid, pus, blood, clots, or gas accumulates in the pericardium (the sac in which the heart is enclosed), resulting in slow or rapid compression of the heart.
Cardiac tamponade is the compression of the heart through infiltration of fluid in the pericardial sac. The pericardial sac surrounds the heart and allows the heart to expand and pump with ease. When blood, pus, or fluid enters this sac, it can compress the heart and keep it from pumping as easily as it should. 
Background. Cardiac tamponade is a clinical syndrome caused by the accumulation of fluid in the pericardial space, resulting in reduced ventricular filling and subsequent hemodynamic compromise. The condition is a medical emergency, the complications of which include pulmonary edema, shock, and death. 
Cardiac tamponade is a medical emergency that requires hospitlization. The treatment of cardiac tamponade is generally twofold: relieving pressure on your heart and then treating the underlying condition. Initial treatment involves getting you stabilized. Your doctor will also drain the fluid from your pericardial sac, typically with a needle in a procedure called pericardiocentesis.
Acute cardiac tamponade is a sudden accumulation of fluid in the pericardial sac leading to an increase in the intrapericardial pressure. It is a medical emergency whose outcome depends on the speed of diagnosis and treatment as well as the underlying cause. cardiac tamponade compression of the heart due to collection of fluid or blood in the pericardium. It may be either chronic or acute. Chronic cardiac tamponade occurs when fluid slowly enters the pericardial sac, allowing time for the membrane's expansion to accommodate the fluid, which can be as much as 1 liter.