World Markets. European markets are sharply higher today with shares in Germany leading the region. The DAX is up 1.45% while France's CAC 40 is up 1.10% and London's FTSE 100 is up 1.04%.
Yet investors are impatient for FDA approval to see just how big the opportunity will be for MannKind, especially in light of potential competition. Let's take an early look at what's been happening with MannKind over the past quarter and what we're likely to see in its report. Dreamboat (2nd generation) inhaler. Dan Caplinger and The Motley Fool have no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
In the MannKind earnings report, investors will want to listen for whether the company has made progress in finding a partner. For the most part, though, investors simply have to wait and see what the FDA has to say before MannKind can come up with a strategy for making the most of the Afrezza opportunity. Dan Caplinger and The Motley Fool have no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Yet the stock is up 22% since early February. MannKind's fourth-quarter financial report didn't hold any big surprises for investors. Operating expenses rose 39%, with the rise coming largely from stock-based compensation charges. Dan Caplinger and The Motley Fool have no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Today, we'll take a look at what we're seeing in the market and discuss what we can expect to see in both the short and long term outlooks. So, let's get right to it... As mentioned above, MannKind stock is back on the rise today. Currently (12:34), MNKD is trading at $4.79 per share after a gain of 5.97% so far today. When predicting the short term movements in stocks, I try my best to keep the fundamental data out of it. With that said, I tend to look for trends in the chart that are signs of a coming breakout in one direction or the other. Looking at the chart to the left, I see a breakout on the horizons. What we're currently seeing from MannKind is a common pattern that we tend to see in the market called a flag. For a flag to happen, an asset has to have a great climb; then, the market stalls. As you can see that's exactly what we're seeing from MNKD
The story of MannKind (NASDAQ: MNKD) and Afrezza has been well-documented as interest in the stock picks up and as MannKind moves closer to the ADCOM & PDUFA dates. Deerfield is able to immediately sell these shares into the market, if they choose to. I think it is likely they have done so. In the event of anything but approval, MNKD stock will be crushed. With a third CRL, folks would certainly start to wonder if MNKD could survive for a fourth round.
Despite what MNKD management may or may not say, I do not think that having an ADCOM meeting is a positive for the stock. Once the briefing documents come out, it may turn into a positive, but it is certainly not a positive right now. Deerfield is able to immediately sell these shares into the market, if they choose to. I think it is likely they have done so. In the event of anything but approval, MNKD stock will be crushed. With a third CRL, folks would certainly start to wonder if MNKD could survive for a fourth round.
MannKind Corp is a development stage company engaged in the discovery, development, and commercialization of therapeutic products for diseases such as diabetes. Sector: Healthcare. 
Summary. Deerfield debt-to-equity conversion is not necessarily a positive. Scheduling of an ADCOM is not a positive event for the stock. Release of briefing documents at the end of March is the next big catalyst. Deerfield is able to immediately sell these shares into the market, if they choose to. I think it is likely they have done so. In the event of anything but approval, MNKD stock will be crushed. With a third CRL, folks would certainly start to wonder if MNKD could survive for a fourth round.