For example, other toxins from fungi, which are not found in food, may be more toxic. For this reason a sound knowledge of which fungi produce which toxins (i.e. fungal chemotaxonomy) is crucial. Difficulty exists in defining mycotoxins in a few words. A minute percentage of toxic fungal metabolites have been considered seriously as weapons: two (aflatoxins and T-2 toxin; Fig 3) are obviously mycotoxins, whereas one is a toxin from a macroscopic fungus, i.e. amanitin, as mentioned previously.
A mycotoxin (from Greek μύκης (mykes, mukos) fungus and τοξικόν (toxikon) poison) is a toxic secondary metabolite produced by organisms of the fungi kingdom, commonly known as molds. The term 'mycotoxin' is usually reserved for the toxic chemical products produced by fungi that readily colonize crops. One mold species may produce many different mycotoxins, and the same mycotoxin may be produced by several species. Aflatoxins are a type of mycotoxin produced by Aspergillus species of fungi, such as A. flavus and A. parasiticus. The umbrella term aflatoxin refers to four different types of mycotoxins produced, which are B 1, B 2, G 1, and G 2.
fungal toxins. there are a large number of known poisonous fungi, some of which grow on living plants, many of them visible on the outside of the plant, many of them growing inside the plant and therefore not visible. Many more grow on stored feed such as grain and hay. fungal. pertaining to or caused by a fungus. fungal disease. the three principal manifestations are the skin infections, the dermatophytoses, systemic infections such as coccidioidomycoses, and the mycotoxicoses, the fungal poisonings. fungal hypersensitivity.
Some of the health effects found in animals and humans include death, identifiable diseases or health problems, weakened immune systems without specificity to a toxin, and as allergens or irritants. Some mycotoxins are harmful to other micro-organisms such as other fungi or even bacteria; penicillin is one example. Aflatoxins are a type of mycotoxin produced by Aspergillus species of fungi, such as A. flavus and A. parasiticus. The umbrella term aflatoxin refers to four different types of mycotoxins produced, which are B 1, B 2, G 1, and G 2.
1 FUNGAL EXPOSURE: TOXICITY & IMMUNOLOGY There are four mechanisms by which fungal toxins cause pathology. One mechanism involves the direct toxic effects of fungi, molds, and yeast. The other three are exaggerated immune system reactions to fungal antigens. 1. The direct toxic effects of ochratoxins, aflatoxins, and tricothecenes.
fungal. pertaining to or caused by a fungus. fungal disease. the three principal manifestations are the skin infections, the dermatophytoses, systemic infections such as coccidioidomycoses, and the mycotoxicoses, the fungal poisonings. fungal hypersensitivity. may occur in animals; possibly the cause of fungal kerion.
fungal toxins. there are a large number of known poisonous fungi, some of which grow on living plants, many of them visible on the outside of the plant, many of them growing inside the plant and therefore not visible. Many more grow on stored feed such as grain and hay. fungal disease. the three principal manifestations are the skin infections, the dermatophytoses, systemic infections such as coccidioidomycoses, and the mycotoxicoses, the fungal poisonings. fungal hypersensitivity. may occur in animals; possibly the cause of fungal kerion.
None of the fungi are (a) as toxic as botulinum toxin from Clostridium botulinum, and (b) as dangerous as nuclear weapons. One toxin may be defined as a pharmaceutical and vice versa simply by a small change in concentration or a moiety. A minute percentage of toxic fungal metabolites have been considered seriously as weapons: two (aflatoxins and T-2 toxin; Fig 3) are obviously mycotoxins, whereas one is a toxin from a macroscopic fungus, i.e. amanitin, as mentioned previously.
Aflatoxin is a fungal toxin that commonly contaminates maize and other types of crops during production, harvest, storage or processing. Exposure to aflatoxin is known to cause both chronic and acute hepatocellular injury. In Kenya, acute aflatoxin poisoning results in liver failure and death in up to 40% of cases. 