Please try again later. http://fixmycabinet.com The standard height for installing the cabinet over the microwave is about sixty nine (69) off of the floor to the bottom of the wall cabinet over the microwave. Do not cheat on this dimension and make it much lower. Fire hazard requirements must be met. So the distance from the stove top to the bottom of the microwave must be no less about 52 inches off of the floor. This means that the standard installation height of your thirty inch high wall cupboard is going to be at fifty four inches (54) off of the floor. 
From contributor B: The bottom of the upper cabinets is a standard 54. Add the height of your microwave to determine the bottom of the cabinet over the microwave. This will put the bottom of your microwave at the 54 mark. 16-19 is the going height nowadays for modern microwaves, with 17 being the most common size. The standard top of the wall cabinet is 84 from the high point of the floor so all your wall cabinets are lined up at the top. If for example, your microwave is 16 height you can go with either a 12 or 15 wall cabinet above it.
Long story short: To install an over-the-range microwave oven, you need to have enough space between wall cabinets flanking the range and between the cooktop and ceiling. There should be a cabinet or shelf above the spot where the microwave will be installed so that you can fasten the top of the microwave to it. Most OTR microwaves are just under 30 in. wide; heights vary from about 10 to 18 inches and depths vary from 12 to about 18 inches. At least one existing rule allows a minimum of 13 inches, but pro installers and others who know their way around kitchens argue that there should be 20 to 24 inches of clearance above the stove top. (A note from NH: I received a note on this height issue from a reader so some clarification is necessary.
Microwave Clearance Rules. The most convenient location to place a microwave is 3 inches below your shoulder, though above-range microwaves may be higher. A microwave should be no more than 54 inches, and no less than 15 inches, from the floor, according to standards set by the National Kitchen and Bath Association. Distance From Stove Top. Microwave ovens vary in their materials and construction, so the minimum required distance from the stove top to the unit is based on manufacturer guidelines. Review installation instructions for your specific model. For many models, the bottom should be at least 15 inches above the stove top. Over-the-range microwaves may have set requirements about the distance between the stove top and the cabinetry about the microwave. In some cases this is 30 inches for a 16-inch microwave
Mark a horizontal line on the wall as far below the cabinet as the height of your microwave being sure there is sufficient space above the cooktop as specified by your microwave's manufacturer. Mark the width of your microwave on the wall with 2 vertical lines, positioned where the microwave will be installed. An over-the-range microwave oven makes efficient use of space in your kitchen by stacking the microwave and stove, while also incorporating lighting and ventilation in the structure of the microwave itself.
Example of a wall-mounted support plate for an over-the-range microwave installation. 2. Hold the microwave wall template in position against the wall and mark the positions of the required fasteners. At least one of those fasteners must go into a stud; where no stud is present, drill holes for toggle bolts. At least one existing rule allows a minimum of 13 inches, but pro installers and others who know their way around kitchens argue that there should be 20 to 24 inches of clearance above the stove top. (A note from NH: I received a note on this height issue from a reader so some clarification is necessary.
The microwave has an exhaust hood underneath it for the purpose of hanging it above a stove. Forum Responses (Cabinet and Millwork Installation Forum) From contributor A: The general standard is 66 off the floor to the bottom of the cabinet or microwave. That is if you are using a standard 36 countertop height. The standard top of the wall cabinet is 84 from the high point of the floor so all your wall cabinets are lined up at the top. If for example, your microwave is 16 height you can go with either a 12 or 15 wall cabinet above it.
Over the Stove Microwave Installation Height; Height of an Over the Range Microwave; The Standard Height for Microwaves Over a Stove; Comments.... The height you choose to install your microwave over the cooking or counter surface depends on several factors: the height of the individuals using the microwave, the strength of the oven below and the height of the surrounding cupboards.
The height of the cabinet above the microwave will depend on your ceiling height. For ceilings 96 or higher a 42 or 36 cabinet is standard. For a ceiling that is 84 a 30 cabinet is standard, which makes the cabinet above the microwave 15 high. Every kitchen layout might vary based on the designer. 