Here are pictures of people with the name Soren. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Soren and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Soren and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Soren is fascinating, learn more about it. The meaning of Soren is “Stern, severe, God of War”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
His work paved the way to the philosophy of existentialism. Ironically, we can’t find the name Soren on any of the ranking charts today in Scandinavia, but it is (pretty lowly) ranked in Germany, France and the United States. In Sweden they consider Soeren sören-old fashioned and-old manish by’today s naming. standards Soren is a super new name in America despite that it’s been around forever in Northern Europe. The name first appeared on the U.S. masculine charts this century in 2003. It has only grown modestly and remains a rather uncommon name choice.
You can find out where the majority of the Soren families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. 
Popularity of the Name Soren. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Soren displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available. The meaning of Soren is “Stern, severe, God of War”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
American Meaning: The name Soren is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Soren is: French Meaning: The name Soren is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Soren is: Reddish brown hair. Swedish Meaning: The name Soren is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Soren is: Reddish brown hair.
Soren is an uncommon given name for males but a somewhat popular last name for all people (#79115 out of 150436, Top 53%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Soren for boys. Soren /so-ren/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced SORE-en. It is of Danish and Latin origin, and the meaning of Soren is apart. Variant of Severus. The name may derive from an old Roman family name, Severinus, or also possibly from Thor (Old Norse). Philosopher Soren Kierkegaard
Comments and insights on the name Soren: | Edit. I have four children, all with unusual names. Our second to the eldest son's name is Soren. We are continually told how awesome the name is. We have several friends who have named their sons Soren also. It is a strong, intellectual sounding name. We love the name!
If you consider naming your baby Soren we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. The meaning of Soren is “Stern, severe, God of War”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.