Morphine is primarily used to treat both acute and chronic severe pain. It is also used for pain due to myocardial infarction and for labor pains. However, concerns exist that morphine may increase mortality in the setting of non ST elevation myocardial infarction. It can be used for both acute pain and chronic pain. Morphine is also frequently used for pain from myocardial infarction and during labour. It can be administered orally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intravenously, into the space around the spinal cord, or rectally.
Morphine, sold under many trade names, is a pain medication of the opiate type. It acts directly on the central nervous system (CNS) to decrease the feeling of pain. It can be used for both acute pain and chronic pain. Morphine is also frequently used for pain from myocardial infarction and during labour. It can be administered orally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intravenously, into the space around the spinal cord, or rectally.
Uses of This Medicine. Morphine injection is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. It may also be used before or during surgery with an anesthetic (medicine that puts you to sleep). Morphine belongs to the group of medicines called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines). It acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain. 
A narcotic is a drug made from or derived synthetically from opium. Examples include opium, morphine, heroin, codeine, hydrocodone, fentanyl, meperidine, oxycodone, tramadol … , nalbuphine, pentazocine, and many others. It does not include benzodiazepines, barbiturates, or alcohols. Answer by Fwmh. Confidence votes 80.0K. In the UK Morphine is a Class A Drug under the Drugs controlled by the UK Misuse of Drugs Act. In the US morphine is a schedule I or II but I'm afraid I don't know the American classification system that well.
The primary source of morphine is isolation from poppy straw of the opium poppy. In 2013 an estimated 523,000 kilograms of morphine were produced. About 45,000 kilograms were used directly for pain, an increase over the last twenty years of four times. It can be used for both acute pain and chronic pain. Morphine is also frequently used for pain from myocardial infarction and during labour. It can be administered orally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intravenously, into the space around the spinal cord, or rectally.
About 70% of morphine is used to make other opioids such as hydromorphone, oxycodone, heroin, and methadone. It is a Schedule II drug in the United States, Class A in the United Kingdom, and Schedule I in Canada. It can be used for both acute pain and chronic pain. Morphine is also frequently used for pain from myocardial infarction and during labour. It can be administered orally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intravenously, into the space around the spinal cord, or rectally.
Schedule 2 includes opiates with high dose Codeine, Opium, Morphine, OxyCodone and Fentanyl as well as Barbiturates and Methamphetamine. Schedule 2 drugs also include the ADHD drug Adderall. The primary difference between a Schedule 1 and a Schedule 2 drug is whether there is a valid medical purpose for the drug. Schedule II substances include narcotics that are deemed to have therapeutic benefits yet maintain a high potential for abuse. These include morphine, fentanyl, and even mixed amphetamine salts (the brand name Adderall).
Morphine is a natural opioid that is found in the opium poppy and is used for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. Many other side effects may occur. If you are prescribed morphine and notice that the side effects of taking the drug are bothersome, contact your doctor or a healthcare practitioner for additional assistance.
1 Medications Used in Morphine Addiction Treatment-Morphine is a powerful drug, and if you are addicted to it it is recommended that you seek professional help. 2  Treatment professionals will help you overcome with counseling and helpful medications. Many other side effects may occur. If you are prescribed morphine and notice that the side effects of taking the drug are bothersome, contact your doctor or a healthcare practitioner for additional assistance.