n an opening on the lateral aspect of the body of the mandible inferior to the apices of the mandibular second or first premolar. The mental vessels and nerve pass through this foramen to travel through the mandibular canal to supply the lip. obturator foramen the large opening between the pubic bone and the ischium. omental foramen the opening connecting the greater and the lesser peritoneal sacs, situated below and behind the porta hepatis; called also epiploic foramen.
Noun. 1. foramen-a natural opening or perforation through a bone or a membranous structure. hiatus. foramen of Monro, interventricular foramen, Monro's foramen-the small opening (on both the right and left sides) that connects the third ventricle in the diencephalon with the lateral ventricle in the cerebral hemisphere. foramen magnum-the large opening at the base of the cranium through which the spinal cord passes. opening, gap-an open or empty space in or between things; there was a small opening between the trees; the explosion made a gap in the wall. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
1 foramen cecum of the skull. 2  foramen cecum of the skull. 3  foramen cecum of the skull. 4  foramen cecum of the skull. 5  foramen cecum of the tongue. 6  foramen cecum of the tongue. 7  foramen cecum of the tongue. 8  foramen cecum of the tongue. 1 Foramen cecum. 2  foramen cecum medullae oblongatae. 3  foramen cecum of frontal bone. 4  foramen cecum of the skull. 5  foramen cecum of the tongue. 6  foramen cecum of tongue. 7  foramen centrale. 8  foramen diaphragmatis. 9  foramen infrapyriforme.
Posted by Varun+ on August 14, 2012 in Human Anatomy, Oral And Maxillofacial Surgery 1 Comment. Foramen: An Opening or Orifice in the skeleton through which structures like Nerves, Arteries, Veins, Muscles and Ligaments pass. 
foramen. a natural opening or passage, especially one into or through a bone. aortic foramen aortic hiatus. apical foramen an opening at or near the apex of the root of a tooth. auditory foramen, external the external acoustic meatus. 1 Foramen cecum. 2  foramen cecum medullae oblongatae. 3  foramen cecum of frontal bone. 4  foramen cecum of the skull. 5  foramen cecum of the tongue. 6  foramen cecum of tongue. 7  foramen centrale. 8  foramen diaphragmatis. 9  foramen infrapyriforme.
1 foramen cecum of the skull. 2  foramen cecum of the skull. 3  foramen cecum of the skull. 4  foramen cecum of the tongue. 5  foramen cecum of the tongue. 6  foramen cecum of the tongue. 7  foramen cecum of the tongue. 8  foramen cecum of tongue. 9  foramen cecum of tongue. 1 Foramen cecum. 2  foramen cecum medullae oblongatae. 3  foramen cecum of frontal bone. 4  foramen cecum of the skull. 5  foramen cecum of the tongue. 6  foramen cecum of tongue. 7  foramen centrale. 8  foramen diaphragmatis. 9  foramen infrapyriforme.
(2) A parietal emissary vein passes through the parietal foramen and connects the superior sagittal sinus with the veins of the scalp. (3) A net-work of minute veins (rete canalis hypoglossi) traverses the hypoglossal canal and joins the transverse sinus with the vertebral vein and deep veins of the neck. (8) An internal carotid plexus of veins traverses the carotid canal and unites the cavernous sinus with the internal jugular vein. (9) A vein is transmitted through the foramen cecum and connects the superior sagittal sinus with the veins of the nasal cavity.
The foramen cecum is the point of attachment of the thyroglossal duct and is formed during the embryological descent of the thyroid gland. 
Noun. 1. foramen-a natural opening or perforation through a bone or a membranous structure. hiatus. foramen of Monro, interventricular foramen, Monro's foramen-the small opening (on both the right and left sides) that connects the third ventricle in the diencephalon with the lateral ventricle in the cerebral hemisphere. foramen magnum-the large opening at the base of the cranium through which the spinal cord passes. opening, gap-an open or empty space in or between things; there was a small opening between the trees; the explosion made a gap in the wall