A residency may follow the internship year or include the internship year as the first year of residency. The residency can also be followed by a fellowship, during which the physician is trained in a specialty or a sub-specialty. A resident physician is more commonly referred to as a resident, senior house officer (in Commonwealth countries), or alternatively as a senior resident medical officer or house officer. Residents have graduated from an accredited medical school and hold a medical degree (MD, DO, DPM, MBBS, MBChB)
Part-year resident examples. You are a part-year resident of a state if your permanent home is located there for a portion of the tax year, for example if you moved from one state to another. 
States have required state residency for a variety of rights, including the right to vote, the right to run for public office, the ability to practice a profession, and the ability to receive public assistance. A bona fide residency requirement asks a person to establish that she actually lives at a certain location and usually is demonstrated by the address listed on a driver's license, a voter registration card, a lease, an income tax return, property tax bills, or utilities bills.
residency. A period of at least 1 year and often 3 to 7 years of on-the-job training, usually postgraduate, that is part of the formal educational program for health care professionals. Medical education A period of formal graduate medical education that consists of on-the-job training of medical school graduates; completion of a residency program is required for board certification in a medical or surgical specialty. See Fellowship, GME, Internship, Resident.
Artist-in-residence programs and other residency opportunities exist to invite artists, academicians, curators, and all manner of creative people for a time and space away from their usual environment and obligations. They provide a time of reflection, research, presentation and/or production. 
Residency is a stage of graduate medical training. A resident or house officer is a physician (holding either a M.D. , D.O. , MBBS, MBChB, BMed or D.P.M. degree) who practices medicine usually in a hospital or clinic. The definition of residency varies worldwide by country and structure of the medical industry. A resident physician is more commonly referred to as a resident, senior house officer (in Commonwealth countries), or alternatively as a senior resident medical officer or house officer. Residents have graduated from an accredited medical school and hold a medical degree (MD, DO, DPM, MBBS, MBChB)
Full Definition of RESIDENCY. 1. a: a usually official place of residence. 2. : a territory in a protected state in which the powers of the protecting state are executed by a resident agent. 3. a: a period of advanced training in a medical specialty that normally follows graduation from medical school and licensing to practice medicine b: residence 4b c: a period as an artist in residence. See residency defined for English-language learners. : a period of advanced medical training and education that normally follows graduation from medical school and licensing to practice medicine and that consists of supervised practice of a specialty in a hospital and in its outpatient department and instruction from specialists on the hospital staff.
1 Residency training is divided into two postgraduate years. 2  Postgraduate year one (PGY-1)offers more generalized training, providing residents exposure to a broad range of clinical scenarios. 3  Postgraduate year two (PGY-2) emphasizes a specific area of interest and helps lead to specialization in that field. 