This specialist is also sometimes called a female urologist. Before the urogynecology specialty was created, women with pelvic-floor disorders typically had to visit multiple specialists and receive treatment for problems in the urinary, gastrointestinal and reproductive systems separately. A urogynecologist can manage all these conditions comprehensively.
Specialists in the Division of Pelvic Reconstructive Surgery (urogynecology) at Mayo Clinic in Arizona provide consultation and comprehensive evaluation and diagnostic testing for women with complex pelvic floor conditions. 
Urogynecology is a highly specialized field that focuses on the diagnosis and treatment of urinary incontinence and female pelvic floor disorders. Because we are highly experienced with minimally invasive procedures, we are better experienced and equipped to take care of you and your needs. A Urogynecologist is a physician in Urology or Obstetrics and Gynecology who, by virtue of education and training, is prepared to provide consultation and comprehensive management of women with complex benign pelvic conditions, lower urinary tract disorders, and pelvic floor dysfunction. Click here to learn more.
A urogynecologist is a physician who specializes in treating women with a variety of disorders to the pelvic floor. Before the urogynecology specialty was created, women with pelvic-floor disorders typically had to visit multiple specialists and receive treatment for problems in the urinary, gastrointestinal and reproductive systems separately. A urogynecologist can manage all these conditions comprehensively.
Urogynecology is a fairly new specialty that focuses exclusively on the care of women with pelvic floor dysfunction such as urinary and fecal leakage (bladder or bowel incontinence), bulging or falling of the vaginal tissues (prolapse), trouble urinating or passing bowel movements, and pelvic pain. The field of Urogynecology developed in the 1980’s when leading obstetricians and gynecologists observed that the care of women with pelvic floor dysfunction was unsatisfactory and that women with these problems were not receiving the careful attention and effective treatments they deserved.
Physicians in the Section of Gynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery provide a full range of services for women with pelvic floor disorders. Treatments include a wide array of office-based procedures, medications, vaginal pessaries, and many minimally invasive surgeries. Surgery can be an option for treating some types of urinary incontinence. This may include a variety of minimally invasive options, including the following: 1  Urethral bulking, a procedure that involves the use of injections to build up the thickness of the urethra to prevent leakage.
A urogynecologist specializes in the treatment of the pelvic floor disorders. These disorders occur when the wall of the pelvic floor becomes weakened or damaged during childbirth, high-impact physical activity or repetitive heavy lifting. Obesity along with certain diseases and surgery may also cause pelvic floor disorders.
A urogynecologist and reconstructive pelvic surgeon is a doctor who has special training in caring for women with pelvic floor disorders. Typically, a urogynecologist has completed a four-year residency in Obstetrics and Gynecology. This is followed by additional training in the evaluation and treatment of conditions that affect the support and function of the female pelvic organs and pelvic floor.
Atlantic Health Division of Urogynecology. The field of Urogynecology (a subspecialty within Obstetrics and Gynecology) is dedicated to the treatment of women with pelvic floor disorders such as urinary or fecal incontinence and prolapse (bulging) of the vagina, bladder and/or the uterus. 