Wrist and Shoulder Fractures. A broken wrist or a shoulder fracture from osteoporosis may occur when someone falls with their arm outstretched to break the fall. The impact may cause the forearm bone to break near the wrist, or it can cause the upper arm bone to break near the shoulder. 
A. A. Osteoporosis is often called the silent disease, because most of the time, bone loss occurs without any symptoms at all. But when osteoporosis becomes severe, it can lead to fractures and a condition called kyphosis. 
Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by thinning and deterioration of bone tissue with loss of calcification and density. Osteoporosis can progress over time. This can cause the bone to become fragile, increasingly porous (as the name of the disease would suggest), and to break more easily. A fracture of the hip, spine or wrist is more likely to occur, but other bones are also susceptible to breaks. Osteoporosis can be present for years without any noticeable symptoms, but signs can include: 1  Severe back pain. 2  Loss of height
Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by low bone mass and deterioration of bone tissue. This leads to increased bone fragility and risk of fracture (broken bones), particularly of the hip, spine, wrist and shoulder. Osteoporosis is often known as “the silent thief” because bone loss occurs without symptoms. Osteoporosis is sometimes confused with osteoarthritis, because the names are similar. Osteoporosis is a bone disease; osteoarthritis is a disease of the joints and surrounding tissue.
Osteoporosis is often called the silent disease because persons with osteoporosis may not develop any symptoms. Some may have pain in their bones and muscles, particularly in their back. Occasionally, a collapsed vertebra may cause severe pain, decrease in height, or deformity in the spine. The symptoms of osteoporosis may resemble other bone disorders or medical problems. Always consult your physician for a diagnosis. Another 34 million have low bone mass and therefore have an increased risk for osteoporosis. Estrogen deficiency is one of the main causes of bone loss in women during and after menopause. Women may lose up to 20 percent of their bone mass in the five to seven years following menopause.
In osteoporosis, there is a loss of bone tissue that leaves bones less dense and more likely to fracture. It can result in a loss of height, severe back pain, and change in one’s posture. Osteoporosis can impair a person’s ability to walk and can cause prolonged or permanent disability. 
Bones are living tissue made up of calcium and other minerals. In people with osteoporosis, bone tissue breaks down faster than it is replaced. The bones become thinner and brittle (lose mass) and are more likely to break (fracture) with pressure or after a fall. Bone loss happens without any warning sign
Osteoporosis, or porous bone, is a disease in which there is a loss of bone mass and destruction of bone tissue. This process causes weakening of the bones and makes them more likely to break. Another 34 million have low bone mass and therefore have an increased risk for osteoporosis. Estrogen deficiency is one of the main causes of bone loss in women during and after menopause. Women may lose up to 20 percent of their bone mass in the five to seven years following menopause.
Shoulder osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative joint disease of the shoulder, is a gradual, progressive, mechanical, and biochemical breakdown of the articular cartilage and other joint tissues, including bone and joint capsule. Osteoarthritis of the shoulder is a gradual wearing of the articular cartilage that leads to pain and stiffness. As the joint surface degenerates, the subchondral bone remodels, losing its sphericity and congruity. The joint capsule also becomes thickened, leading to further loss of shoulder rotation.