If you only eat (low-fiber) foods right now, don't suddenly switch to eating 40 grams of fiber a day, because that will cause a lot of stress to the digestive system.. Black beans contain 15 grams of fiber per cup, and about 15 grams of protein. Their dark, rich color signals a high content of flavonoids, plant pigments that are powerful antioxidants.
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  I
Cooked barley has 6 grams of fiber per cup, and bran flakes have more than 5 grams per 3/4-cup serving. A cup of cooked oatmeal has 4 grams of fiber. Air-popped popcorn has 3.5 grams of fiber in every 3-cup serving, and 1 cup of cooked brown rice has 3.5 grams. Other veggies that contain at least 2 grams of dietary fiber per serving include Brussels sprouts, sweet corn, sweet potatoes, green beans, asparagus, kale and carrots. Salads and steamed veggie mixes are simple ways to incorporate fiber-rich veggies in your diet.
9. Broccoli-very high in fiber! 10. Baked potato with the skin (The skin when crisp is the best part for fiber.) Mashed and boiled potatoes are good, too-but not french fries, which contain a high percentage of fat. 11. High-Fiber Foods Pear 1 medium 5.1 grams fiber Figs,dried 2 medium 3.7 grams fiber Blueberries 1 cup 3.5 grams fiber Spaghetti, whole-wheat 1 cup 6.3 grams fiber Bran Flakes 3/4 cup 5.1 grams fiber Almonds 24 nuts 3.3 grams fiber popcorn, air popped 3cups 3.6 grams fiber. bumblebee · 8 years ago.
A high-fiber diet includes at least 20 to 35 grams of fiber per day and can help lower cholesterol, improve bowel regularity and lower your risk for developing diabetes, heart disease and obesity. To get more dietary fiber, emphasize vegetables, fruits, legumes, whole grains and nuts in your diet. Get More Fiber With Fruits. A medium apple, 1/2 cup of blackberries, a medium banana and a medium orange each contain between 3 and 4 grams of dietary fiber.
Fiber. Fiber comes from plant foods so there is no fiber in animal products such as milk, eggs, meat, poultry, and fish. Fiber is the indigestible part of plant foods, including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts and legumes. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice.
Eat More Vegetables All Day. One-half cup of cooked broccoli provides 2.8 grams of fiber, 1/2 cup of cooked spinach supplies 3.5 grams of dietary fiber and 1/2 cup of cooked winter squash contains 2.9 grams of fiber. Vegetables are low in calories, and nutrients they provide include vitamins A and C and potassium. Get More Fiber With Fruits. A medium apple, 1/2 cup of blackberries, a medium banana and a medium orange each contain between 3 and 4 grams of dietary fiber.
For more specific calorie and fiber content of particular foods, to estimate your daily and weekly quotas, refer to the alphabetical chart that follows: 1. Dried beans, peas, and other legumes This includes baked beans, kidney beans, split peas, dried limas, garbanzos, pinto beans and black beans. High-Fiber Foods Pear 1 medium 5.1 grams fiber Figs,dried 2 medium 3.7 grams fiber Blueberries 1 cup 3.5 grams fiber Spaghetti, whole-wheat 1 cup 6.3 grams fiber Bran Flakes 3/4 cup 5.1 grams fiber Almonds 24 nuts 3.3 grams fiber popcorn, air popped 3cups 3.6 grams fiber. bumblebee · 8 years ago.
Eating fiber-rich whole foodsnot foods that tout added fiberis the best way to increase your fiber intake, says Carolyn Brown, RD, a nutritionist at Foodtrainers, in New York City. Here is a list of high-fiber foodsand tasty recipes that contain them. Watch the video: 3 Ways to Get More Fiber. Next: Corn. Fiber can lower blood sugar, cut cholesterol, and may even prevent colon cancer and help you avoid hemorrhoids. If it were a drug, the world would be clamoring for it. But few people are getting enough. Women should get about 25 grams a day and men at least 35 to 40, but the average person gets just 15 grams a day.