1 Xanthan gum, an ingredient used infrequently in commercial pet food, could become a lot more common now that AAFCO has issued preliminary approval for its broader use in canned dog and cat foods. 2  Xanthan gum is made by fermenting corn sugar with Xanthomonas compestris, a bacteria. 1 Nutritionally, xanthan gum is a carb with about seven grams of fiber per tablespoon. 2  Xanthan gum is generally considered safe for dogs and is assumed safe for cats. 3  Diarrhea can result at megadose levels, and potentially at lower doses in sensitive individuals.
Xanthan gum is a largely indigestible polysaccharide that is produced by bacteria called Xanthomonas Camestris. (1) Manufacturers place the bacteria in a growth medium that contains sugars and other nutrients, and the resulting product of bacterial fermentation is purified, dried, powdered, and sold as xanthan gum. This last study actually relates to the potential anti-tumor properties of xanthan gum, and researchers found that orally administered xanthan gum was able to slow tumor growth and prolong the survival of mice with melanoma. (7) The mechanism is unclear, but it’s interesting nonetheless.
XANTHAN GUM Side Effects & Safety. Xanthan gum is safe when up to 15 grams per day are taken. It can cause some side effects such as intestinal gas (flatulence) and bloating. People who are exposed to xanthan gum powder might experience flu-like symptoms, nose and throat irritation, and lung problems. It is also used as a laxative. Xanthan gum is sometimes used as a saliva substitute in people with dry mouth (Sjogren's syndrome). In manufacturing, xanthan gum is used as a thickening and stabilizing agent in foods, toothpastes, and medicines. Xanthan gum is also an ingredient in some sustained-release pills.
XANTHAN GUM Overview Information. Xanthan gum is a sugar-like compound made by mixing aged (fermented) sugars with a certain kind of bacteria. It is used to make medicine. Xanthan gum is used for lowering blood sugar and total cholesterol in people with diabetes. It is also used as a laxative. Xanthan gum is sometimes used as a saliva substitute in people with dry mouth (Sjogren's syndrome). In manufacturing, xanthan gum is used as a thickening and stabilizing agent in foods, toothpastes, and medicines. Xanthan gum is also an ingredient in some sustained-release pills.
Use restrictions. About XANTHAN GUM: Xanthan gum is a polysaccharide, a sugar-based polymer produced by bacteria; it is used as a viscosity agent in personal care products and foods. 
1 In processed human foods, xanthan gum is used as an emulsifier, a thickener, and in gluten-free products. 2  Nutritionally, xanthan gum is a carb with about seven grams of fiber per tablespoon. 3  Xanthan gum is generally considered safe for dogs and is assumed safe for cats. 1 Nutritionally, xanthan gum is a carb with about seven grams of fiber per tablespoon. 2  Xanthan gum is generally considered safe for dogs and is assumed safe for cats. 3  Diarrhea can result at megadose levels, and potentially at lower doses in sensitive individuals.
Xanthan gum (/ˈzaenθən/) ˈzænθən is a polysaccharide secreted by the Bacterium xanthomonas, campestris used as a food additive and rheology, modifier commonly used as a food thickening (agent in salad, dressings for) example and a (stabilizer in cosmetic, products for, example to prevent ingredients from). separating Xanthan gum is also used in gluten-free baking. Since the gluten found in wheat must be omitted, xanthan gum is used to give the dough or batter a stickiness that would otherwise be achieved with the gluten.
Last time, I discussed the health effects of carrageenan, a food additive that is commonly used as a stabilizer, thickener, or emulsifier. Another additive that shares many of these functions in commercial foods is xanthan gum, which is also popular in gluten-free baked goods for the elasticity it lends to dough. This last study actually relates to the potential anti-tumor properties of xanthan gum, and researchers found that orally administered xanthan gum was able to slow tumor growth and prolong the survival of mice with melanoma. (7) The mechanism is unclear, but it’s interesting nonetheless.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) includes Xanthan Gum on its list of food additives permitted for direct addition to food. In foods, it is permitted to be used as a stabilizer, emulsifier, thickener, suspending agent, bodying agent or foam enhancer. It is also allowed to be used in some processed cheese products. Based on the available data on Xanthan Gum and other polysaccharide gums, the CIR Expert Panel concluded that Xanthan Gum and Biosaccharide Gum-1 were safe as used in cosmetic products. Xanthan Gum is identified in 21 CFR 172.695 as a food additive that may be safely used following prescribed conditions.
1 Xanthan gum is made by fermenting corn sugar with Xanthomonas compestris, a bacteria. 2  In processed human foods, xanthan gum is used as an emulsifier, a thickener, and in gluten-free products. 1 Nutritionally, xanthan gum is a carb with about seven grams of fiber per tablespoon. 2  Xanthan gum is generally considered safe for dogs and is assumed safe for cats. 3  Diarrhea can result at megadose levels, and potentially at lower doses in sensitive individuals.