Dried apricots, and sometimes grapes will be transported with sachets of the sulfite containing preservative. Dried sultanas do not normally contain sulfites. Salads and fruit salads. Sometimes restaurant salads and fruit salads will have sulfites added to preserve their colour. 
Using the list below for the 3 different raisins nutrition entries in our database, the highest amount of Potassium is found in Raisins, seeded which contains 825 mg of Potassium per 100g. The lowest amount of Potassium is in Raisins, golden seedless which in 100g contains 746 mg of Potassium. The median value of Potassium is found in which in 100g contains 0 mg of Potassium. The average amount of Potassium contained in 100g of raisins, based on the list below is 773.33 mg of Potassium. From the Potassium content in raisins list, click on a link to give a full nutrition breakdown which includes calories, protein, fat and carbs as well as Potassium.
There are numerous varieties of raisins and different techniques to create this dried fruit. The natural way to create raisins is by sun drying, but many manufactures now use a mechanical process to dry raisins. The most popular types of raisins include the Malaga, Sultana, Monukka, Muscat and Thompson raisins. Raisins can be either seedless or contain seeds. Raisins can be eaten either raw or can be cooked. When raisins are cooked, they often plump up in size and soften in texture. Raisins should be stored in a cool, dry air-tight container. You could also try keeping them sealed in a zipped bag in the refrigerator. They have a shelf life of about six months.
Health Benefits. 路 Sultanas are a good source of iron, potassium and selenium and also contain vitamin A and some vitamin B. 路 It is also rich in fiber. 路 They are beneficial for high blood pressure, fluid retention, constipation and anemia. 路 Their high calorie content makes them an ideal snack for anyone involved in sports. The sultana is a type of white, seedless grape of Turkish or Iranian origin. These are typically larger than the raisins. Sultana raisins have a delicate and unique flavor and are especially noted for their sweetness and golden colour.
The list below gives the total Potassium content in the 3 items from the general description 'raisins'.These 3 types of raisins range from Raisins, seeded through to Raisins, golden seedless and are ranked by the content or amount per 100g. From the Potassium content in raisins list, click on a link to give a full nutrition breakdown which includes calories, protein, fat and carbs as well as Potassium.
A variety of raisins from different grapes. Raisin varieties depend on the type of grape used, and are made in a variety of sizes and colors including green, black, blue, purple and yellow. Seedless varieties include the sultana (also known as Thompson Seedless in the USA), the Greek currants (black corinthian raisins, Vitis vinifera L. var. Apyrena) and Flame grapes. Raisins are traditionally sun-dried, but may also be water-dipped and artificially dehydrated. The word raisin dates back to Middle English and is a loanword from Old French; in modern French, raisin means grape, while a dried grape is a raisin sec, or dry grape. The Old French word in turn developed from the Latin word racemus, a bunch of grapes.
Avocados contain a low amount of oxalate and are highly alkaline-forming in the body. Besides providing all of the essential amino acids, avocados are an excellent source of calcium, magnesium, potassium, dietary fiber, vitamin E, B vitamins and heart-healthy essential fatty acids. 