A Gurdwara is the place where Sikhs come together for congregational worship. The first Gurdwara in the world was built by Guru Nanak in 1521-2 at Kartarpur. There are about 200 Gurdwaras in Britain. The literal meaning of the Punjabi word Gurdwara is 'the residence of the Guru', or 'the door that leads to the Guru'. In a modern Gurdwara, the Guru is not a person but the book of Sikh scriptures called the Guru Granth Sahib. Although a Gurdwara may be called the residence of the Guru (meaning the residence of God), Sikhs believe that God is present everywhere. Before the time of Guru Arjan Dev, the place of Sikh religious activities was known as a Dharamsala, which means place of faith.
1 The Sikh place of worship is called gurdwara. The literal translation of the term gurdwara is the Guru's door, but it also means by means of the Guru's grace.. The gurdwara is the temple or house in which is kept the Guru Granth Sahib (the Sikh scripture). Gurdwara A Sikh place of worship. Gurmukhi The script of the Guru Granth Sahib, which is also used in modern Punjabi. Gurpurb/Gurpurab Sikh holiday commemorating the birth or death of a Sikh Guru (see Guru). Guru Divinely inspired spiritual prophet-teacher.
Gurbani The contents of the Sikh scripture, Guru Granth Sahib (see Guru Granth Sahib) containing the revealed wisdom of the Sikh Gurus (see Guru), in their own words. Gurdwara A Sikh place of worship. Gurmukhi The script of the Guru Granth Sahib, which is also used in modern Punjabi. Gurpurb/Gurpurab Sikh holiday commemorating the birth or death of a Sikh Guru (see Guru). Guru Divinely inspired spiritual prophet-teacher.
From SikhiWiki. Stockton Gurdwara, California (1912) was the first Sikh Gurdwara in USA. The Stockton Gurdwara Sahib, California, USA holds great historical significance for the Sikh community. It is the first Gurdwara sahib that was built to serve the Sikh Sangat living in the whole of United States of America (USA). 
Gurdwara, the Sikh Place of Worship. Gurdwara means the guru's door. A gurdwara is the Sikh meeting place for worship. The members of the congregation, welcome all people to worship in the gurdwara regardless of caste, color, or creed. Guru Granth, the Sikh Scripture. Guru Granth, the Sikh scripture is considered to be the living guru of the Sikhs. In every gurdwara, the Sikh place of worship, the Guru Granth is kept on a platform in a prominent place. Sikhs worshiping at the gurdwara bow before Guru Granth before sitting down. A Sikh sitting behind the Guru Granth selects a random verse called a hukam, which is believed to be the Guru's divine comman
A Sikh temple or Gurdwara (the door or the gateway to the Guru) is a place of worship in the Sikh religion. In the temple, the Sikh scriptures are recited or sung, and sermons are given. Festivals are celebrated there. Sikh congregations also take part in birth, death, baptism, and marriage ceremonies in the temple. 
There are no idols, statues, or religious pictures in a gurdwara. The essential feature of a gurdwara is the presence of the holy book and the eternal Sikh Guru, the Guru Granth Sahib. The Sikhs hold high respect for the teachings and commandments laid down in the Guru Granth Sahib. The first gurdwara was built in Kartarpur, on the banks of Ravi River in the Punjab region by the first Sikh guru, Guru Nanak Dev Ji in the year 1521.
a gurdwara is a place for worship the Sikhs believe its a gate way to the guru's. the gurdwara is a big place with lots of rooms and its a sharing and kind community. 
The gurdwara has a Darbar Sahib where the current and everlasting Guru of the Sikhs, the holy scripture Guru Granth Sahib is placed on a Takhat (an elevated throne) in a prominent central position. The first gurdwara was built in Kartarpur, on the banks of Ravi River in the Punjab region by the first Sikh guru, Guru Nanak Dev Ji in the year 1521.