Welcome to The Hedingham-Sible Hedingham sports and social club. The Hedingham is a Village Club located in the heart of beautiful Sible Hedingham. We offer a great venue to eat, drink and socialise. 
The Earls of Oxford were great crusaders and Aubrey, 2nd Earl fought with Richard Coeur de Lion and Robert, 3rd Earl was one of the barons who forced King John to sign the Magna Carta in 1215. The following year Hedingham Castle was besieged by King John, and again by the Dauphin of France in 1217. The de Veres were commanders throughout history and featured at the Siege of Caerlaverock and the famous battles of Crecy, Poitiers, Agincourt and Bosworth.
We are a hair salon in the centre of Sible Hedingham, offering a range of services and prices. Specialising in all colour and cutting techniques, hair extensions, hair up, wedding hair and in salon treatments. We are a very professional and friendly salon. Sible Hedingham is not merely a 'Service Village', but a community in which many wealth-producing individuals choose to work and live.
Further below under 'more local history sources' you will find to links to other places on the web where you can continue your research. For other locations in Essex see our alphabetical list of Essex towns and villages. Poll of Voters 1847. Sible Hedingham inhabitants who voted in the 1847 general election. White's Directory of Essex 1848. HEDINGHAM (SIBLE) is on extensive and pleasant village on the western side of the vale of the Colne, opposite Castle. White's Directory of Essex 1848 - list of inhabitants. White's Directory of Essex 1863. White's Directory of Essex 1863 - list of inhabitants. 
Recorded as Hadingham, Headingham, and Hedingham, this is an English locational surname. It almost certainly originates from the twin villages of Castle and Sible Hedingham in the county of Essex. Locational surnames are usually from names. That is to say surnames given to people after they left their original homes and moved elsewhere, usually in search of work. This certainly applies here, as with the exception of two early recordings in 1732 shown below and 1780, the surname is rarely ever recorded in its hom
The surname examples include: Richard Hedingham, who married Sarah Dow at Halstead in Essex, on July 1st 1732, and in the diocese of Greater London, David Hadingham who married Mary Nix at the church of St Mary le Strand, on August 28th 1797. That is to say surnames given to people after they left their original homes and moved elsewhere, usually in search of work. This certainly applies here, as with the exception of two early recordings in 1732 shown below and 1780, the surname is rarely ever recorded in its home county of Essex.
Introduction by Simon Daw. Most residents of Castle Hedingham are aware of the story of Poll Miles. Her story was set down on paper by Lady Margaret Majendie, wife of the owner of the castle, Lewis Majendie, and great, great, great aunt to its present owner, Jason Lindsay. Entitled Poll Miles: A Story of Castle Hedingham it was printed in 1914, two years after her death. 
The quality of life in Sible Hedingham, from beautiful, accessible countryside and a warm and welcoming community, to the provision of everyday needs from local shops and public transport to broadband connectivity, is essential to giving people a reason to choose to live and work here. Sible Hedingham is not merely a 'Service Village', but a community in which many wealth-producing individuals choose to work and live.
Sible Hedingham The Web. Aubrey de Vere was one of William the Conqueror's most favoured knights. After the Battle of Hastings he was given land in many counties including Middlesex where he owned Kensington and Earls Court. The following year Hedingham Castle was besieged by King John, and again by the Dauphin of France in 1217. The de Veres were commanders throughout history and featured at the Siege of Caerlaverock and the famous battles of Crecy, Poitiers, Agincourt and Bosworth.
It is believed that Castle Hedingham means the fort of the Hypinga tribe with the landing place on the river, whilst the Sible in Sible Hedingham refers to a lady called Sibillia, who held the manor of Hedingham in the year 1230. That is to say surnames given to people after they left their original homes and moved elsewhere, usually in search of work. This certainly applies here, as with the exception of two early recordings in 1732 shown below and 1780, the surname is rarely ever recorded in its home county of Essex.