Types of Breath odor. This medical symptom information shows the various types of Breath odor, and other related symptoms or conditions, including their causes and diagnosis.
Types of Smell symptoms. This medical symptom information shows the various types of Smell symptoms, and other related symptoms or conditions, including their causes and diagnosis. 1  Reduced sense of smell. 2  Anosmia. 3  Olfactory dysfunction. 4  Loss of smell. 5  Lack of sense of smell in children. 6  Paraosmia due to amebic meningiti
Between the different types of skin glands, the human body odor is primarily the result of the apocrine sweat glands, which secrete the majority of chemical compounds needed for the skin flora to metabolize it into odorant substances. 
The thousands of aromas humans can smell can be sorted into 10 basic categories, US scientists say. Prof Jason Castro, of Bates College, and Prof Chakra Chennubhotla, of the University of Pittsburgh, used a computerised technique to whittle down smells to their most basic essence. 
I want to do this because bad breath is pretty misunderstood by people. Just like general body odor, bad breath can come from a myriad of different places and have countless causes. But people tend to think of bad breath differently -- they think it's all in the mouth, and that some gum will solve the problem. 
Humans can distinguish more than 10,000 different smells (odorants), which are detected by specialized olfactory receptor neurons lining the nose.... It is thought that there are hundreds of different olfactory receptors, each encoded by a different gene and each recognizing different odorants. Smell is a very direct sense. In order for you to smell something, molecules from that thing have to make it to your nose. Everything you smell, therefore, is giving off molecules -- whether it is bread in the bakery, onions, perfume, a piece of fruit or whatever. 
An odor or odour or fragrance is caused by one or more volatilized chemical compounds, generally at a very low concentration, that humans or other animals perceive by the sense of olfaction. Common odors that people are used to, such as their own body odor, are less noticeable to individuals than external or uncommon odors. This is due to habituation; after continuous odor exposure, the sense of smell fatigues quickly, but recovers rapidly after the stimulus is removed.
It's an open question how many fundamental types of odor qualities there are, study researcher Jason Castro of Bates College said in a statement. This is in striking contrast to olfaction's 'sister sense,' taste, where we know that five basic qualities seem to organize sensations, Castro said. Castro and his colleagues took a standard database known as Andew Dravniek's 1985 Atlas of Odor Character Profiles. The profiles contained long lists of descriptors — such as sweet, floral or heavy — which people had rated in terms of applicability to 144 different odors.
The thousands of aromas humans can smell can be sorted into 10 basic categories, US scientists say. Prof Jason Castro, of Bates College, and Prof Chakra Chennubhotla, of the University of Pittsburgh, used a computerised technique to whittle down smells to their most basic essence. 
View full size image. From fruity to minty to popcorn-y, all smells can be classified as one of 10 types of aroma, scientists say. Taste, vision and hearing can be quantified, but a systematic description of smell has remained elusive. Castro and his colleagues took a standard database known as Andew Dravniek's 1985 Atlas of Odor Character Profiles. The profiles contained long lists of descriptors — such as sweet, floral or heavy — which people had rated in terms of applicability to 144 different odors.