Report Abuse. It usually takes about 90 days for a tadpole to change from embryo to froglet. The tadpole you receive will have been nurtured for about 60 to 75 days at the Frog Farm. That means you have about 15 to 30 days to watch your tadpole complete the amazing process of metamorphosis. However, each tadpole is unique and some tadpoles may take longer than others. mariannebenosa · 8 years ago. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Depends on the species, temperature of the water they are in, how much water and how crowded it is. There are so many factors, it's crazy. Bullfrog and green frog tadpoles take up to 2 years! But, typically, it takes 3 weeks to 2 months.
However this varies with the particular species of frog. Actually, a tadpole is what … hatches from a frog's eggs. In this part of the frog's life cycle, they grow legs and frog features which can take anywhere from a few weeks to a few months, depending on the type of frog. Bullfrogs can remain tadpoles for up to two years. A week or two depending on how long ago it hatched. It always depends on the species. A tree frog took about 5 weeks (a little over a month), and a bullfrog tadpole took 2 y … ears! Usually, tree frogs and smaller frogs take less time while massive frogs such as bullfrogs, pacman frogs, and others take years. 3 people found this useful
RE: how long does a tadpole take to turn into a frog? i caught some tadpoles and want to know how long it takes to turn into frogs. some have just hatched and some have two legs. but there is one that has all four legs but still has a tail. if you know how long these ages take plz tell me. Normally it takes about a 2 to 3 and a half weeks. The tadpole will grow back legs and then front legs when it grows front legs you should cover it immediately. Trust me My tadpole turned into a frog and hopped out of the container.
Report Abuse. It depends on how the tadpole is. Normally it takes about a 2 to 3 and a half weeks. The tadpole will grow back legs and then front legs when it grows front legs you should cover it immediately. Trust me My tadpole turned into a frog and hopped out of the container.
Best Answer: Depends upon the species. Some make the change within a few months, others take over a year. If what you have are a native species where you've found eggs or tadpoles, you might get an idea of the time it will take from this website: http://exoticpets.about.com/gi/dynamic/o... Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Depends on the species, temperature of the water they are in, how much water and how crowded it is. There are so many factors, it's crazy. Bullfrog and green frog tadpoles take up to 2 years! But, typically, it takes 3 weeks to 2 months.
Young Tadpoles. It can take as long as 2 to 3 years of growth and metamorphosis before a tadpole becomes a mature frog. However, after about one year, a young tadpole will grow legs and then, after the passage of a little more time, it will also grow arms. Tadpole to Froglet. During its next stage, the tadpole turns into a froglet -- an almost fully mature frog. By this time, the soon-to-be mature frog breathes oxygen and can hop around on land. However, it still has a tail which is now very small.
This bullfrog tadpole may take up to 14 months to mature into a frog. This tadpole is 4 inches long and may be as much as 10 months old. Bullfrogs don't make good container specimens because of their long development time. Green frogs need about 12 months to change into a young frog. This tadpole is 3 inches long and may be about 8 months old. The green frog also is a poor choice for containers.