Ronald Reagan, who was president of the Screen Actors Guild and later President of the United States, and Arnold Schwarzenegger both came to prominence through acting. Gray Davis, the 37th governor of California, was the second governor in American history to be recalled by voters. The shortest tenure was that of Milton Latham, who served only five days before being elected by the legislature to fill a vacant United States Senate seat
Jerry Brown wins fourth term as California governor. California Edmund Jerry Brown won a historic fourth term as governor of California Tuesday, sweeping his Republican opponent Neel Kashkari and vowing to use the energy that's resurrected this political. Brown was one of California's youngest governors when he won his first election in 1974, and then was re-elected for a second term in 1978. The son of former California governor Pat Brown, Jerry Brown's career — including its slumps — kept him in the limelight for most of the next four decades.
Contrary to the previous answer, Tom Bradley is not the first  governor of California, however he was the first and only African  American mayor of Los Angeles (1973-1993). … To date there has been  no African American governor of California. The governor of California is elected for four (4) years with a two (2) terms as his/her term limits. He/She takes office the Monday after January 1 after their election … .  
Edmund G. Jerry Brown, Jr., the son of former Governor Pat Brown (1959-1967), was born in San Francisco on April 7, 1938. He graduated with degrees in Latin and Greek from the University of California, Berkeley in 1961 and received a juris doctorate from Yale in 1964. 
The current governor is Jerry Brown, a Democrat who was inaugurated January 3, 2011, and who had previously served as governor from 1975 to 1983. In October 2013 Brown surpassed Earl Warren for the longest cumulative period of time served as governor. The Lieutenant Governor of California is separately elected during the same election, not jointly as the running mate of the gubernatorial candidate. California has had a governor and a lieutenant governor of different parties 26 of the past 31 years.
He is the longest serving governor in California history. The Governor of California is the chief executive of the California state government, whose responsibilities include making annual State of the State addresses to the California State Legislature, submitting the budget, and ensuring that state laws are enforced. Gray Davis, the 37th governor of California, was the second governor in American history to be recalled by voters.
1 Of the 38 governors who held office, seven of them were actually born in California (six of them after statehood): 2  One (Romualdo Pacheco) was born in Santa Barbara. 3  Four (George Pardee, James Rolph, Pat Brown, and Jerry Brown) were born in San Francisco. 4  One (Hiram Johnson) was born in Sacramento. The Lieutenant Governor of California is separately elected during the same election, not jointly as the running mate of the gubernatorial candidate. California has had a governor and a lieutenant governor of different parties 26 of the past 31 years.
Edmund G. Jerry Brown. This website is a tribute to the individuals who have served as chief executive of the State of California from the birth of the state in 1849 to the present. Our state's governors lead the largest state in the union and their political influence reaches beyond the borders of the state. Welcome to the Governors' Gallery!
SACRAMENTO-Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. today joined forces with an unprecedented alliance of heads of state, city and state leaders-convened by the World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund-to urge countries and companies around the globe to put a price on carbon. 
Confidence votes 20.5K. The current Governor of California is Jerry Brown (D). Brown assumed office as the 39th Governor of California on January 3, 2011. He was previously the 34th governor. His term will expire on January 5, 2015. The governor of California is elected for four (4) years with a two (2) terms as his/her term limits. He/She takes office the Monday after January 1 after their election … .  