General Description. Sucralfate is effective in the prevention and treatment of ulcers in the mouth, esophagous, stomach, and intestines. 
Uses For Carafate. Sucralfate is used to treat and prevent duodenal ulcers. This medicine may also be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. Sucralfate works by forming a ``barrier'' or ``coating'' over the ulcer. This protects the ulcer from the acid of the stomach, allowing it to heal. 
DRUG DESCRIPTION. CARAFATE Tablets contain sucralfate and sucralfate is an a-D-glucopyranoside, β-D-fructofuranosyl-, octakis-(hydrogen sulfate), aluminum complex. Less serious side effects may include: 1  nausea, vomiting, upset stomach; 2  stomach pain; 3  constipation, diarrhea; 4  mild itching or skin rash; 5  sleep problems (insomnia); 6  dizziness, drowsiness, spinning sensation; 7  headache; or. 8  back pain.
BRAND NAME: Carafate. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Sucralfate is a unique oral drug that is used for treating ulcers of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Chemically, it is a complex of the disaccharide sugar, sucrose, combined with sulfate and aluminum.
Email Article. Sucralfate is an antiulcer medication. It coats ulcers in the digestive system and protects them from further damage from stomach acid. It is used in the treatment of ulcers of the esophagus, stomach, or small intestine of dogs, cats, and other pets. 
1 Review. Sucralfate is the generic form of the brand-name drug Carafate. It's a prescription medicine used to treat ulcers of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Sucralfate is used to treat peptic ulcer disease and to prevent ulcers from recurring after they heal
Uses of Sucralfate. Dogs that are on certain types of medication, such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) or aspirin, may experience stomach or intestinal ulcers as a side effect. Ulcers may also form from: 1  ingestion of toxins. 2  liver disease. 3  stress. 4  mast cell tumors. 5  inflammatory bowel disease. 
What is the most important information I should know about sucralfate: Sucralfate is a prescription medication not FDA approved for veterinary use; however, it is a commonly accepted practice for veterinarians to use this medication in dogs, cats, and horses. Sucralfate is available as 1 Gm tablets. How it works: Sucralfate works to prevent and treat ulcers that form in the mouth, throat, esophagus, and intestines. Sucralfate works with the acids in the stomach to form a paste over the ulcers and prevent further damage. Cautions: Use Sucralfate with caution in pregnant or nursing animals.
An Overview of Uses for Sucralfate. Ulcers can occur in several places within the digestive tract. One common place for an ulcer is in the duodenum (the upper part of the intestine just after the stomach). This type of ulcer is called a duodenal ulcer. Another common place to have an ulcer is in the stomach. 