Location. We are located in north central New Brunswick, Canada about 1 hours driving time over gravel forest roads northeast from the village of Plaster Rock, which is about 1 hour and 45 minutes drive from the Canada/U.S border crossing at Houlton, Maine. U.S Interstate 95 terminates/starts right at the Canadian border there. 
Discuss Plaster Rock-Village, New Brunswick, Canada on our hugely popular Canada forum. 
Located on the Tobique River, the village was founded in 1881 and named for the gypsum found in the area, which is heated to produce plaster. The cliffs across the river from the Tobique Valley High School expose the red plaster rock. Primarily English, the town is historically a logging and lumbering community. The Family Worship Centre, the name of the Pentecostal sect, has been the site of controversy since it first established roots nearly 90 years ago. Plaster Rock is home of the World Pond Hockey Championships, which take place annually in February on Roulston Lake.
Sample some of the fiddlehead recipes at the festival for a tried-and-true New Brunswick treat! Plaster Rock is also the home of the World’s Largest Fiddleheads Sculpture! Later in June the annual Fiddles on the Tobique event combines 2 time-honoured New Brunswick traditions: fiddling and canoeing. Imagine the beautiful sight and sound of a flotilla of canoes carrying almost 200 musicians down the Tobique River while they play old-time fiddle music.
Tubing on the Tobique. Welcome to the official website of Tobique Suites Welcome to Tobique Suites “A place to get away from it all”. These lovely 2 bedroom Non Smoking apartment like suites are located on the bank of the world renowned Tobique River, in north western New Brunswick. Just 5 minutes from Plaster Rock, NB, these suites offer home style living in a country setting. 
Plaster Rock (2011 population: 1,135) is a Canadian village in Victoria County, New Brunswick. The mayor is Alexis Fenner. The Family Worship Centre, the name of the Pentecostal sect, has been the site of controversy since it first established roots nearly 90 years ago. Plaster Rock is home of the World Pond Hockey Championships, which take place annually in February on Roulston Lake.
Located on Route 108/109, near the beautiful Tobique River in Plaster Rock, New Brunswick, Settler's Inn provides thoughtfully appointed accommodations within a relaxed home-style family atmosphere for your overnight stays or long-term visits. 
Continuing a proud family history in the business as a fourth generation outfitter, Long Lake Adventures invites you to come and join us at our remote location outside of the village of Plaster Rock in northern New Brunswick, Canada. Black Bear Hunting outfitters in New Brunswick-Long Lake Adventures. Our remote location on private land with ready access to the most isolated parts of two zones sets us apart from other Moose Hunting Outfitters in New Brunswick.
Directions and Location-Island Lake Camps. We are located in remote North-central New Brunswick about 60 kilometres(40 Miles) driving distance from the village of Plaster Rock within Acadian Timber's private forest land.The final leg of your journey to Island Lake will be over gravel-surfaced forest roads. Dot A shows where you depart highway 108 just east of Plaster Rock (Renous Gatehouse)en route to our location.For detailed directions from your front door to this point just click the link below and enter your address at the top left.Enter your info in blank space A- (your destination will show as unknown road).
A visit to Plaster Rock will have you marvelling at our clear rivers and lakes, abundance of wildlife and breathtaking scenery. During the spring, our annual Fiddlehead Festival celebrates the abundance of the Ostrich fern in our region. Later in June the annual Fiddles on the Tobique event combines 2 time-honoured New Brunswick traditions: fiddling and canoeing. Imagine the beautiful sight and sound of a flotilla of canoes carrying almost 200 musicians down the Tobique River while they play old-time fiddle music.