The pharynx (plural: pharynges) is an organ found in vertebrates and invertebrates, though the structure is not universally the same across the species. In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization. There are two sets of pharyngeal muscles that act upon the pharynx. These are arranged as an inner layer of longitudinal muscles and an outer circular layer.
The PHARYNX is a fibromuscular tube which extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage (at which point it becomes the esophagus). Portions of the pharynx lie posterior to the nasal cavity (nasal pharynx), oral cavity (oral pharynx) and larynx (laryngeal pharynx). 
The pharynx is a fibromuscular cavity that is situated within the throat and is located posterior or at the back of the nasal and the oral cavities. This structure is also found posterior to the larynx. 
The pharynx is the part of the throat that lies between the mouth and the larynx or voice box. Mentioned in: Sore Throat, Swallowing Disorders, Velopharyngeal Insufficiency. , pl. pharynges (far'ingks, fă-rin'jēz) [TA]. In swallowing, the uvula lifts up, closing off the nasopharynx as food passes from the mouth through the lower parts of the pharynx to the esophagus. On each side of the entrance to the pharynx from the mouth, and behind the nasal passage, are the tonsils and adenoids, masses of lymphoid tissue.
The pharynx, or throat, is a part of the body that helps with eating and with breathing. It is a passage that leads from the mouth and nose to the esophagus and the larynx. The esophagus is part of the digestive system, and the larynx is part of the respiratory system. The pharynx consists of three main divisions.
The pharynx, or throat, is connected to the nose, the mouth, and the esophagus. Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia, Britannica. Inc the, pharynx or, throat is a part of the body that helps with eating and with. Breathing it is a passage that leads from the mouth and nose to the esophagus and the. larynx It is a passage that leads from the mouth and nose to the esophagus and the larynx. The esophagus is part of the digestive system, and the larynx is part of the respiratory system. The pharynx consists of three main divisions.
Answer by Maasiah FREEMAN. Confidence votes 1. The pharynx is the section of the throat between the skull and the esophagus that propels food when swallowed into the esophagus. The epiglottis at the bottom of the pharynx pivots to send food to the esophagus or air into the lungs by way of the voice box (larynx)
The pharynx is the part of the digestive system situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. It is therefore divisible into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts: the (1) nasopharynx, (2) oropharynx, and (3) laryngopharynx. The larynx is the organ that connects the lower part of the pharynx with the trachea. It serves (1) as a valve to guard the air passages, especially during swallowing, (2) for the maintenance of a patent airway, and (3) for vocalization.
It makes up the part of the throat situated immediately posterior to the nasal cavity, posterior to the mouth and superior to the esophagus and larynx. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization. There are two sets of pharyngeal muscles that act upon the pharynx. These are arranged as an inner layer of longitudinal muscles and an outer circular layer.