Trey Smith (Brian Trey Smith) was born in Houston, … Texas. His childhood bestfriend was Jason Murdock, only son of the TV minister Mike Murdock. While growing up, both boys decided to enroll at Christ for the Nations, a large Christian seminary school located in Dallas, Texas. It is called the,God in a Nutshell Project. Trey Smith also runs the Trey's Nutshell Video Blog. Thieves: One dirty TV pastor and the man who robbed him is Trey Smith's life story.
Mini Bio (1). Trey Smith was born on November 11, 1992 in Los Angeles, California, USA as Willard Carroll Smith III. He is an actor, known for David Blaine: Real or Magic (2013), The Will Smith Music Video Collection (1999) and The Speech (2008). 
Smith married Sheree Zampino in 1992. They had one son, Trey Smith, born on November 11, 1992, and divorced in 1995. Trey appeared in his father's music video for the 1998 single  Just the Two of Us . 
Believe it or not, Will Smith 's oldest son is 21. Trey Smith — you know, the kid in his dad's Just the Two of Us video — is now officially allowed to party at the clubs where he DJs. Trey turned 21 at the stroke of midnight Sunday and celebrated with his famous family in Sin City. Of course. 
Trey Smith, originally Brian Trey Smith, is an ex-safe robber, author, documentary producer, and founder of the God in a Nutshell Project. Trey Smith is best known for his role in the 1999 safe robbery of prominent television evangelist Mike Murdock, a lead fundraiser for TBN, PTL, Daystar, Benny Hinn and others. In childhood, Trey Smith appears to have been best friends with evangelist Mike Murdock's only son, Jason Murdock (also known as Jay Sustain), as the two boys' mothers seem to have been close friends as well.
In 2012, Trey Smith founded the God in a Nutshell project, which primarily consists of investigative videos on subjects like consciousness, life-after-death, religious corruption, ancient cultures & belief systems, and even fringe topics such as aliens, or Hitler's involvement in the occult. In childhood, Trey Smith appears to have been best friends with evangelist Mike Murdock's only son, Jason Murdock (also known as Jay Sustain), as the two boys' mothers seem to have been close friends as well.
Well, Trey Smith robbed a TV pastor one time in 1999. Trey Smith Biography: Unusual author with an unusual story. Trey Smith | Who is Trey Smith | (Brian Trey Smith) was born in Houston, Texas. His childhood bestfriend was Jason Murdock, only son of the TV minister Mike Murdock. Thieves: One dirty TV pastor and the man who robbed him is Trey Smith's life story. It was released 2011. In July of 2011, D Magazine (Dallas based magazine with a distribution of 4 hundred thousand) ran a full page drawing (to left) of Trey Smith stealing Mike Murdock's safe.
Trey Smith | About Trey Smith Thieves: One dirty TV pastor and the man who robbed him. In 1999 Trey Smith committed the safe robbery at Mike Murdock's home, also known as Hacienda de Paz. (shown in video). Note: Trey Smith is not Will Smith's son Trey Smith. Will Smith's son Trey Smith is good at football, this Trey Smith is horrible at football --- but not too bad at robbing a TV pastor. CLICK HERE FOR OFFICIAL THIEVES WEBSITE. Tweet. Trey Smith Thieves: One Dirty TV pastor & the man who robbed him. 
Source: Supplied. We first got a glimpse at Trey Smith in 1998 when he appeared in the music video for Will Smith’s song, Just The Two Of Us, along with Smith’s second wife, Jada Koren Pinkett. 
Trey Smith (II). Actor. Trey Smith was born on November 11, 1992 in Los Angeles, California, USA as Willard Carroll Smith III. He is an actor, known for David Blaine: Real or Magic (2013), The Will Smith Music Video Collection (1999) and The Speech (2008). 