The National Weather Service defines its Upper Midwest as the states of Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. The United States Geological Survey uses two different Upper Midwest regions: Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin also often favor Democratic candidates. By contrast, the lower Midwest includes swing states such as Ohio, Missouri, and Iowa, and solidly Republican (until 2008) Indiana. The Plains States to the west are heavily Republican in most presidential contests.
The Old Northwest Territory included all the then-owned land of the United States west of Pennsylvania, east of the Mississippi River, and northwest of the Ohio River. It covered all of the modern states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin, as well as the northeastern part of Minnesota. The square surveys of the Northwest Territory would become a hallmark of the Midwest, as sections, townships, counties (and states) were laid out scientifically, and land was sold quickly and efficiently (although not without some speculative aberrations).
From New York City you drive west to visit the West (or the Midwest). The names of other, smaller areas are often capitalized too. Plopped in the center of New York City is Central Park, which the West Side and the East Side flank. Chicago has a South Side and London has Bloomsbury. When the name doesn’t appear, lowercase geographical features (mountain, valley, gorge or beach, for instance). In general, you should capitalize the names of countries and languages.
The territory included all the land of the United States west of Pennsylvania and northwest of the Ohio River. It covered all of the modern states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin, as well as the northeastern part of Minnesota. The square surveys of the Northwest Territory would become a hallmark of the Midwest, as sections, townships, counties (and states) were laid out scientifically, and land was sold quickly and efficiently (although not without some speculative aberrations).
The Upper Midwest, or the North, is a region in the northern portion of the U.S. Census Bureau 's Midwestern United States. It is largely a sub-region of the midwest. Although there are no uniformly agreed-upon boundaries, the region is most commonly used to refer to the states of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin also often favor Democratic candidates. By contrast, the lower Midwest includes swing states such as Ohio, Missouri, and Iowa, and solidly Republican (until 2008) Indiana. The Plains States to the west are heavily Republican in most presidential contests.
1 Wisconsin State Campground Ideas Wisconsin is located in the north central to mid-eastern portion of the United States, and borders the four states of Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois, and Michigan. 2  It is a wonderf…. Depends on whether you are talking about the place or the entity. The place you'd go on vacation would be the state of Wisconsin, but you pay your taxes to The State of Wisconsin.
Directional terms in culturally significant phrases such as “the Wild West” and “the Old West” are capitalized, as they are in names of districts and parts of cities: Chicago’s South Side, London’s West End, and the Middle East’s West Bank. Betsey: The Chicago Manual of Style is unequivocal about capitalizing the word state: As with city, capitalize it in a phrase such as “the State of California” only when referring to that government entity.
Obviously, when the directional term is part of a current or historical proper name — for example, North Dakota and West Germany, respectively — capitalization is nonnegotiable. But many lesser-known geographical designations aren’t as obvious. Here’s a rundown of some examples: Betsey: The Chicago Manual of Style is unequivocal about capitalizing the word state: As with city, capitalize it in a phrase such as “the State of California” only when referring to that government entity.
In general, don’t capitalize the. When the name doesn’t appear, lowercase geographical features (mountain, valley, gorge or beach, for instance). In general, you should capitalize the names of countries and languages. One exception to this rule: common objects with a country or nationality as part of the name (french fries, scotch whiskey, venetian blinds, and so forth). By attaching itself to a common object, the language or country name takes on a new meaning