Consuming whale meat has also been woven into Japan's history and culture. Whale meat became a crucial part of the Japanese food supply after World War II, because it was a cheap source of protein for a country that was suffering from postwar poverty. This delicacy was even served to children in school lunches from the late 1940s to the early 1960s [source: McCurry ]. The Japanese government says it's studying whale populations. Activist groups accuse the Japanese of hunting whales to sell the meat in their country. Norway objected to the commercial whaling moratorium and filed an objection with the IWC.
Even though there are 80 different types of whales, there are only a few species that are hunted for meat and other products. These include blue whales, Minke whales, Fin whal … es, humpback whales, sperm whales and grey whales. The Japanese still hunt whales for food. There is evidence that some restaurants sell whale meat and blubber.
Even though there are 80 different types of whales, there are only a few species that are hunted for meat and other products. These include blue whales, Minke whales, Fin whal … es, humpback whales, sperm whales and grey whales. In the Southern Oceans they have got a massive whaling fleet. The  Japanese whaling fleet is like a massive industry which have  various ships for certain purposes, in gener … al, it contains a  factory ship, two or three harpoon ships and a spotter ship, along  with others but not relevant to this.
Japanese Whaling History. Japan has a long history of whaling. Half a dozen towns can trace their whaling history back hundreds of years, to when whales were driven into nets, harpooned repeatedly and then dispatched with either a long sword or a wooden plug driven into the blowhole. This history is an important part of why the Japanese continue to hunt whales. Attempts to stop the nation's whaling are perceived by many as a threat to Japanese culture. According to its defenders, eating whale meat is an old and impenetrable Japanese tradition.
Even in Japan, whaling is a small business compared to what it was in the mid 20th century...most of it is done by coastal whalers working in Japanese waters and by fishermen who hunt dolphins and other small toothed whales (this can also be considered a kind of whaling). It is likely this is the real reason for the whale hunting. In recent years activists have disrupted whale hunting in the arctic. AND The Japanese eat the whales. The meat is sold in Japanese markets and in a few Japanese restaurants.
Best Answer: The official reason that Japan gives for whale hunting is scientific research. They say the only way to determine the whale's age is to kill it. It is likely this is the real reason for the whale hunting. In recent years activists have disrupted whale hunting in the arctic. AND The Japanese eat the whales. The meat is sold in Japanese markets and in a few Japanese restaurants.
The Japanese still hunt whales for food. There is evidence that some restaurants sell whale meat and blubber. The overall claim is they hunt whales for scientific purposes, a … nd they want to increase the number of whales harvested, this can only mean that they are using them for high priced delicacies. In the Southern Oceans they have got a massive whaling fleet. The  Japanese whaling fleet is like a massive industry which have  various ships for certain purposes, in gener … al, it contains a  factory ship, two or three harpoon ships and a spotter ship, along  with others but not relevant to this.
The purpose of the research is to prove that whale populations have improved enough to allow commercial whaling which was banned by the International Whaling Commission in 1986. However, the whale meat is sold as a delicacy. It is likely this is the real reason for the whale hunting. In recent years activists have disrupted whale hunting in the arctic. AND The Japanese eat the whales. The meat is sold in Japanese markets and in a few Japanese restaurants.
At the turn of the 20th century, Japanese coastal whaling received a boost with the introduction of steam ships and grenade-tipped harpoon guns. However, it wasn't until 1934 that Japan expanded its whaling to Antarctica. This history is an important part of why the Japanese continue to hunt whales. Attempts to stop the nation's whaling are perceived by many as a threat to Japanese culture. According to its defenders, eating whale meat is an old and impenetrable Japanese tradition.
Why Japan persists in hunting whales. As the International Whaling Commission meets to search for common ground between pro-and anti-whaling nations, the BBC's Chris Hogg reports from a Japanese town showing no sign of giving up on its whale meat. We use it for sashimi, he says. I put it to him that around the world there is opposition to Japan's annual whale cull in Antarctica, and to the activities of fishermen like him who catch whales off Japan's coast. I do not see the difference between fishing and whaling, he tells me.