The Myotonic Goat Registry is here to serve breeders as an open registry for all goats of the traditional Myotonic breed found originally in Tennessee but now throughout the USA and Canada. 
Myotonic Goats. Myotonic Goats are the only breed offered at Breedlove Farms. Myotonic Goats are also know as Tennessee Fainting Goats or Wooden-Leg Goats. We have focused on this breed for the past 8 years. This particular breed is known for its docility for children and muscling for meat production. This American breed was developed in the late 1800'
It is said that the first Myotonic goats were brought to Tennessee by a farm laborer named John Tinsley from Nova Scotia, Canada, in the 1800s. Myotonic goats are known by many names (Myotonic, Tennessee Fainting, Texas Meat, Texas Wooden Leg, etc). Despite the name Fainting Goat, Myotonic goats do not really faint. Due to a genetic muscle condition called myotonia congenital, when they are startled or overly excited, their muscles experience prolonged contractions causing them to stiffen (or freeze in place). If the goat loses its balance, it will fall over.
Visit us on FaceBook for current news. Myotonic Goats. A distinctly American breed, the Myotonic goat originated in Tennessee. The defining genetic trait is a neuromuscular condition which developed naturally that causes them to stiffen and sometimes fall over when startled. These goats are called by various lay terms.... Myotonic goats are a distinctly landrace breed, which means that they have adapted to fit the local conditions in which they live. They are definitely meat goats, being very muscular and self-sufficient. Sometime during the 1940's, a group of the larger Myotonic goats was imported from Tennessee to Texas.
INTRODUCTION. The Myotonic goat is a distinct breed yet it has many synonyms for names, including Nervous Goats, Wooden-Leg Goats, Scare Goats, Fainting Goats, and Tennessee Fainting Goats. The breed is a multi-purpose goat derived from a variety of strains of goats that were originally from Tennessee. The Myotonic goat, a landrace breed, is more varied than standardized goat breeds-especially so if it is compared to imported breeds that were started with relatively few goats that all had very similar traits.
Myotonic (Wooden Leg). Myotonic goats are also called Wooden Leg goats, stiff leg or Tennessee fainting goats. These are one of the few goats that are indigenous to the U.S. There are two strains of this animal. Most of those found in Tennessee and the eastern U.S. are smaller. Breeds of Livestock-Myotonic (Wooden Leg) Goats. Myotonic goats are also called Wooden Leg goats, stiff leg or Tennessee fainting goats. These are one of the few goats that are indigenous to the U.S. There are two strains of this animal.
Myotonic or Tennessee Fainting Goat. The goats of this breed have a host of names: Myotonic, Tennessee Fainting, Tennessee Meat, Texas Wooden Leg, Stiff, Nervous, and Scare goats. 
A myotonic goat, otherwise known as the fainting goat, is a domestic goat whose muscles freeze for roughly 10 seconds when the goat feels panic. Though painless, this generally results in the animal collapsing on its side. The characteristic is caused by a hereditary genetic disorder called myotonia congenita. Slightly smaller than standard breeds of the goat, fainting goats are generally 43 to 64 cm (17 to 25 in) tall and can weigh anywhere from 27 to 79 kg (60 to 174 lb).