While it doesn’t build new tissue, vitamin D can help you preserve the cartilage you have, reports registered dietitian Joy Bauer -- you need at least 600 international units daily. Get your vitamin D from fatty fish, dairy foods, eggs, soy milk, UV-treated mushrooms and fortified foods. For this diet, boost consumption of fresh vegetables and fruits, whole grains, legumes, lean protein from poultry and cold-water fish, and healthy fats from olive oil, nuts, seeds and avocado. In particular, UMMC suggests garlic, onions, parsley, watercress, celery and lemon for their anti-inflammatory potential.
Papaya nourishes your cartilage due to its vitamin A and C. Cartilage -- a type of flexible connective tissue found in your joints and other tissues throughout your body -- plays a role in your health and quality of life. Vitamin A-Rich Fruits. Fruits rich in vitamin A also help maintain healthy cartilage. Fruits contain beta-carotene, a pigment molecule your body breaks down into several forms of vitamin A, called retinoids. Retinoids play a role in cell growth and development, including the development of new cartilage cells
Nutrition for Regrowing Cartilage. Glutamine in high-protein foods may support cartilage regrowth. Cartilage, a shiny, slightly rubbery substance that forms caps at the ends of bones, protects your joints and helps them glide smoothly across each other. 
Boost Vitamins C and D. Cartilage is made of collagen, and your body requires vitamin C to make this protein. To build cartilage in your knees, make sure you are getting the recommended daily amount of this antioxidant vitamin -- 75 milligrams for women and 90 milligrams for men. For this diet, boost consumption of fresh vegetables and fruits, whole grains, legumes, lean protein from poultry and cold-water fish, and healthy fats from olive oil, nuts, seeds and avocado. In particular, UMMC suggests garlic, onions, parsley, watercress, celery and lemon for their anti-inflammatory potential.
By staff reporter staff reporter, 21-Sep-2009 2009-09-21T00:00:00Z. Related tags: Fortigel, Cartilage, Osteoarthritis. Daily supplements of a modified collagen may help with the regeneration of cartilage tissue, and aid joint health, according to a new study from Germany. By staff reporter staff reporter, 21-Sep-2009. Daily supplements of a modified collagen may help with the regeneration of cartilage tissue, and aid joint health, according to a new study from Germany. http://www.nutraingredients-usa.com/Research/Modified-collagen-may-stimulate-cartilage-re-growth-Study.
Eating fruits provides you with vitamin C, a nutrient important for healthy cartilage. Vitamin C helps you make collagen, a protein that lends strength to your cartilage and helps hold your tissue together. Vitamin A-Rich Fruits. Fruits rich in vitamin A also help maintain healthy cartilage. Fruits contain beta-carotene, a pigment molecule your body breaks down into several forms of vitamin A, called retinoids. Retinoids play a role in cell growth and development, including the development of new cartilage cells
Modified collagen may stimulate cartilage re-growth: Study. By staff reporter staff reporter, 21-Sep-2009. Daily supplements of a modified collagen may help with the regeneration of cartilage tissue, and aid joint health, according to a new study from Germany. http://www.nutraingredients-usa.com/Research/Modified-collagen-may-stimulate-cartilage-re-growth-Study.
i want to know the vitamins and minerals(and also foods) which help in development of cartilage. I dont mean regrowth but development right from childhood. Update: I want to know the vitamins and especially foods that help in growth and maintainance of cartilage. Follow. 1 answer 1. i want to know the vitamins and minerals(and also foods) which help in development of cartilage. I dont mean regrowth but development right from childhood. Add your answer. Source.
This can lead to friction and pain, especially in well-used joints like the knees -- a condition known as osteoarthritis. Your doctor may recommend pain relievers, supplements or surgery in extreme cases, but your diet can also help you manage your condition and even build new cartilage. For this diet, boost consumption of fresh vegetables and fruits, whole grains, legumes, lean protein from poultry and cold-water fish, and healthy fats from olive oil, nuts, seeds and avocado. In particular, UMMC suggests garlic, onions, parsley, watercress, celery and lemon for their anti-inflammatory potential.