Answer by Jenniferlm21 (5). It is because when the acid (citric acid) of the lemon juice comes in contact with the zinc core of the penny (the outside of the penny)it creates a reaction. add a comment. +1 vote! Answer by leeyjin (6). Citric acid in lemon juice etches away copper oxide that gives the penny the dark color. When the oxide is removed, the copper metal underneath is exposed.
If you have a copper penny and see dark dirty patches on it, this is copper oxide. Citric acid, found in some fruit juices, will dissolve copper oxide, which is why coin collectors wash copper coins in lemon juice. Yes, because the orange juice has an acidic pH. When you mix an acid (orange juice), with a reactive metal (aluminum) they react, the aluminum slowly dissolves into the orange … juice. This would give it a horrible taste and it probably wouldn't be safe to consume. 6 people found this useful
1 Set the fruit on a table and gently roll it around to soften it up. 2  You want the juice to be flowing inside the fruit without breaking its skin. 3  Alternatively, you can squeeze the fruit with your hands. 4  Insert the zinc and copper nails into the fruit so that they are about 2 or 5 cm apart. 
Pennies get dull and dirty because the copper in the pennies reacts with oxygen in the air to form copper oxide. When you put your pennies in a vinegar and salt mix, the vinegar and salt react together and remove the copper oxide. 
Citric Acid. An acid solution weakens the bonds that formed between the copper and oxygen atoms to create the copper oxide. Citric acid, contained in lemon juice, is a weak acid that will break those bonds. The experiment can be repeated with other acids, such as vinegar. Wait five minutes, then remove the penny from the lemon juice. The penny will get cleaner the longer it sits in the solution. Wipe it with a white paper towel. Any remaining dirty coating, which is actually copper oxide, will rub off as an orange stain on the paper towel, leaving the penny clean and shiny.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Stainless steel is non-porous surface, so it will not react to citric acid, copper, aluminum, cast iron though do react to citric acid. Stainless will pit and rust if they are in anyway nicked or scratch deep enough if it comes in contact with citric acid. Source(s): Kevin G · 8 years ago. 
… Copper is less reactive than Hydrogen, so it will not form a compound with the Cl atoms. The reactivities of various elements can be found on any RedOx table. A metal with a low value has a strong potential to be oxidized (i.e. give up electrons and form a compound with a negative ion). 21 people found this useful. Fruit juice has the vitamins of fruit and also a lot of the sugar. Fruit has fiber in it which when turned into juice is lost. Fruit also has low calories compared to size, so … it can fill you up without taking in too many calories unlike juice. 3 people found this useful.