Definitions for common health insurance terms. DEFINITION: In network refers to providers or health care facilities that are part of a health plan’s network of providers with which it has negotiated a discount. Health Insurance Glossary. DEFINITION: In network refers to providers or health care facilities that are part of a health plan’s network of providers with which it has negotiated a discount.
DEFINITION of 'Network Effect'. A phenomenon whereby a good or service becomes more valuable when more people use it. The internet is a good example. Initially, there were few users of the internet, and it was of relatively little value to anyone outside of the military and a few research scientists.
Out-of-network services are those services provided by physicians or providers that are not listed in the network's provider directory, or have not made a specific agreement with the network to provide services for the network. Any services, other than emergency services, provided to an injured employee from physicians or providers not contracted with the certified network, unless pre-authorized by the network, would be out-of-network benefits.
In Network and Out of Network Benefits. The purpose of this webpage is to provide you with information that will help you understand the differences between In-Network benefits and Out-of-Network benefits. Each certified WCNet has an approved service area (a geographical area within which services from network providers is available and accessible). Any services, other than emergency services, provided to an injured employee from physicians or providers not contracted with the certified network, unless pre-authorized by the network, would be out-of-network benefits.
In economics and business, a network effect (also called network externality or demand-side economies of scale) is the effect that one user of a good or service has on the value of that product to other people. When a network effect is present, the value of a product or service is dependent on the number of others using it. The classic example is the telephone. The more people who own telephones, the more valuable the telephone is to each owner
The expression network effect is applied most commonly to positive network externalities as in the case of the telephone. Negative network externalities can also occur, where more users make a product less valuable, but are more commonly referred to as congestion (as in traffic congestion or network congestion). When a network effect is present, the value of a product or service is dependent on the number of others using it. The classic example is the telephone. The more people who own telephones, the more valuable the telephone is to each owner
DEFINITION OF NETWORK. 1) In information technology, a network is a series of points or nodes interconnected by communication paths. 2) Networks can interconnect with other networks and contain subnetworks. BENEFIT OF COMPUTER NETWORK. The many benefits that networking offers to us are: 1.Helps to enhance connectivity: Networks connect and link unlimited number of computers. This in turn connects the people using those computers. Individuals within a work group are connected through local area 