The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law direct. The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof, for six Years; and each Senator shall have one Vote.
The United States Senate is a legislative chamber in the bicameral legislature of the United States, and together with the U.S. House of Representatives makes up the U.S. Congress. The Senate was thus not intended to represent the people of the United States equally. The Constitution provides that the approval of both chambers is necessary for the passage of legislation. The Senate of the United States was formed on the example of the ancient Roman Senate.
Columbia University 1996 The federal government of the United States was created by the Constitution, which went into operation in 1789 when the first Congress convened and George Washington took the oath of office as president. Claims Court. Congress established the Claims Court on Oct. 1, 1982, to succeed the Court of Claims. Its cases concern such money judgments against the United States as taking property, contract obligations, claims by government employees for back pay, and claims for refunds from income taxes.
The actual Enumeration shall be made within three years after the first meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent term of ten years, in such manner as they shall by law direct. The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each state, chosen by the legislature thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote. Immediately after they shall be assembled in consequence of the first election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three classes.
Comprised of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Congress brings together 435 representatives of the people, 100 Senators from 50 states, and 5 delegates from the territories of the United States -- an assembly of 540 to make the laws that govern the nation. Today, the Senate is composed of two Senators from each state, who are elected to serve a term of six years. The Members of the House of Representatives, who each represent approximately 600,000 people, are elected for two-year terms.
The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law direct. 
Constitution of the United States of America.. [With] Ratification of the constitution of the United States by the convention of the state of Rhode Island and Providence plantations ... In Convention, May 29, 1790 Poughkeepsie, July 2, 1788. The members of the Constitutional Convention signed the United States Constitution on September 17, 1787 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Constitutional Convention convened in response to dissatisfaction with the Articles of Confederation and the need for a strong centralized government.
The Congress was established in 1787 when the Constitutional Convention adopted the United States Constitution. In 1789, with only 20 senators and 59 representatives, the first Congress met in Federal Hall in New York City. Today, the Senate is composed of two Senators from each state, who are elected to serve a term of six years. The Members of the House of Representatives, who each represent approximately 600,000 people, are elected for two-year terms.
The apportionment of seats in the House of Representatives was based on the provisions of Article I, Section 2, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution. Both chambers had a Pro-Administration majority. This Congress passed the ten amendments now called the Bill of Rights. During this congress, two Senate seats were added for North Carolina and Rhode Island when each ratified the Constitution. During this congress, five House seats were added for North Carolina and one House seat was added for Rhode Island when they
Article III of the Constitution provides for a Supreme Court and such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish.. Since that statement was written in 1787, Congress has established a multilevel national court system. Below the Supreme Court are the United States Courts of Appeals. Claims Court. Congress established the Claims Court on Oct. 1, 1982, to succeed the Court of Claims. Its cases concern such money judgments against the United States as taking property, contract obligations, claims by government employees for back pay, and claims for refunds from income taxes.