12. Thermal Cutting 168 2005 The high-speed cutting nozzle (cutting-oxygen pressure 8 bar) allows higher cutting speeds with increased cutting-oxygen pressure. The heavy-duty cutting nozzle (cutting-oxygen pressure 11 bar) is mainly applied for eco-nomic cutting with flame-cutting machines. The different energy carriers for the thermal cutting are depicted in Figure 12.3: - gas, - electrical gas discharge and-beams. Electron beams for ther-mal cutting are listed in the DIN-Standard, they pro-duce, however, only very small boreholes. Cutting is impossible.
Iowa/Illinois Laser Oxide Removal. As the use of thermal cutting processes in the metalworking industry has increased substantially, the need to remove the oxidation produced by those processes has also increased. Carbon oxide is formed on the edges of parts when gas is introduced during the thermal metal cutting process. This creates a carbon oxide scale that appears as a shiny blue/silver finish on and around the cut areas.
In oxy-fuel cutting, a torch is used to heat metal to its kindling temperature. A stream of oxygen is then trained on the metal, burning it into a metal oxide that flows out of the kerf as slag. Oxygen is not the fuel. It is what chemically combines with the fuel to produce the heat for welding. This is called 'oxidation', but the more specific and more commonly used term in this context is 'combustion'. In the case of hydrogen, the product of combustion is simply water
Machine Controls for Thermal Cutting Open-architecture PC-based machine controls offer advantages that flow from the power of standard software developed with standard development tools, running on one or more standard operating systems. Managers can capture cutting data and log it into a database. A cutting attachment connected to the torch assembly enables cutting of work to 8 inches thick; thicker work requires a dedicated cutting torch. Two-tube attachments mix oxygen and gas in the larger bottom tube; the mixed gas flows through the tube, enters the torch head, and leaves from the tip.
For other uses, see Aluminium oxide (compounds) . Aluminium oxide is a chemical compound of aluminium and oxygen with the chemical formula Al 2 O 3. It is the most commonly occurring of several aluminium oxides, and specifically identified as aluminium(III) oxide. Aluminium oxide is an amphoteric substance, meaning it can react with both acids and bases, such as hydrofluoric acid and sodium hydroxide, acting as an acid with a base and a base with an acid, neutralising the other and producing a salt.
Standard oxyfuel cutting tips, used primarily for manual cutting, have a straight-through cutting-oxygen orifice, working at 30-60-PSI oxygen pressure. Mechanized cutting uses a tapered tip with cutting-oxygen pressure increased to 100 PSI to boost cutting speed by up to 25 percent over standard tips. A cutting attachment connected to the torch assembly enables cutting of work to 8 inches thick; thicker work requires a dedicated cutting torch. Two-tube attachments mix oxygen and gas in the larger bottom tube; the mixed gas flows through the tube, enters the torch head, and leaves from the tip.
Oxy-fuel is one of the oldest welding processes, besides forge welding. Still used in industry, in recent decades it has been less widely utilized in industrial applications as other specifically devised technologies have been adopted. It is still widely used for welding pipes and tubes, as well as repair work. Oxygen is not the fuel. It is what chemically combines with the fuel to produce the heat for welding. This is called 'oxidation', but the more specific and more commonly used term in this context is 'combustion'. In the case of hydrogen, the product of combustion is simply water