A can of sardines, which is equal to about 3.75 ounces, contains 10.53 grams of fat, but only 1.4 grams are saturated. The rest of the fat in a can of sardines is healthy unsaturated fat, which can help lower your cholesterol and reduce your risk of heart disease. Sardines are tiny fish usually canned in oil and eaten whole. A 1-cup serving of sardines contains 310 calories and a wealth of key vitamins and minerals.
Sardines are also a very good source of phosphorus, a mineral that is important to strengthening the bone matrix. Additionally, as high levels of homocysteine are related to osteoporosis, sardines' vitamin B12 rounds out their repertoire of nutrients that support bone health. Sardines are an excellent source of vitamin B12 and selenium. They are a very good source of phosphorus, omega-3 fatty acids, protein, and vitamin D. Additionally, they are a good source of calcium, niacin, copper, vitamin B2, and choline. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Sardines.
Nutritional Profile. Sardines are an excellent source of vitamin B12 and selenium. They are a very good source of phosphorus, omega-3 fatty acids, protein, and vitamin D. Additionally, they are a good source of calcium, niacin, copper, vitamin B2, and choline. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Sardines.
Healthy Eating. Sardines are an excellent low calorie, low carbohydrate food. The small, silver colored fish are also known as pilchards. You can enjoy them as a healthy snack or regular meal due to the various nutrients the fish contains. Pilchards are an oily fish, which are very rich in omega-3 fatty acids. They contain no carbohydrates, which helps to stabilize blood sugar levels. This fish is one of the rich sources of fish protein
Sardines are a type of small oily fish. They are often sold canned and are rich sources of omega-3 fatty acids, vitamin D, calcium and protein. Canned sardines have their heads removed and are cooked by steaming or deep-frying. They are then dried and packed in vegetable oil, brine or sauce. A typical water-packed can of sardines contains around 140 calories, 20 grams of protein and 7 grams of fat. Sardines packed in oil contain more fat and calories. Few foods provide vitamin D, and canned sardines are one of them. This vitamin is synthesized in the skin during exposure to sunlight; however, people living in areas away from the equator or who do not expose themselves frequently to the sun, may become deficient in this vitamin.
Choosing and Eating Sardines. Choosing canned sardines is fairly simple. They’re usually sold with other canned fish (tuna, salmon, and anchovies), packed in a variety of liquids from oil to tomato sauce to lemon juice. As always, check the package and make sure all the ingredients are healthy. 
The health benefits of sardines are unmatched. They’re a source of a combination of incredibly important nutrients: omega 3, taurine, selenium, calcium, vitamin D and MORE! They’re a top skin food from my Purely Primal Skincare Guide. On a “scale” of 1 to amazing (ha! Fish joke!) they’re a 10. 
Sardines contain a variety of vital nutrients. They’re packed with heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, and they’re a natural source of vitamin D, which is typically obtained from enriched foods. In spite of the benefits, whether canned sardines are good for you depends on one deciding factor: portion control. Even though they're low in total fat, sardines are a good source of omega-3 fatty acids. These fatty acids lower levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in your blood.
Sardines can add selenium, potassium and vitamin B-12 to your diet. Photo Credit Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Sardines most often are available canned in oil, water or a flavored sauce, such as tomato or mustard sauce. You can eat these small fish on their own, or use them in pasta dishes, dips, salads and casseroles. These highly nutritious fish can be a regular component of an overall balanced diet. Bone Health. Each 3-ounce serving of sardines provides 325 milligrams of calcium, or 33 percent of the daily value based on a 2,000-calorie diet. Calcium is an essential mineral for building and maintaining strong bones, and canned bony fish, such as sardines, are non-dairy sources of calcium.
Calcium and Selenium. Canned sardines, when eaten with the bones, are a concentrated source of calcium. Calcium is essential for healthy bones and an inadequate intake causes rickets in children and osteoporosis and osteomalacia in adults. Few foods provide vitamin D, and canned sardines are one of them. This vitamin is synthesized in the skin during exposure to sunlight; however, people living in areas away from the equator or who do not expose themselves frequently to the sun, may become deficient in this vitamin.