Compare Post Office Savings Accounts – read our review and compare the features and benefits available from the Post Office. Make an informed decision to find a Savings Account that suits you. The Post Office offer a range of savings accounts designed to help you to save whilst allowing you to relax and know that your money is in the right hands. 
Post Office savings accounts. The Post Office is best known for its savings accounts, though it offers a range of other financial products such as credit cards, travel insurance mortgages and loans. If you’re looking to provide for your children’s future, the Post Office also has accounts tailored towards children in the form of Child Trust Funds and children’s savings accounts. The first £85,000 of any savings held with the Post Office is now protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Shares & Saves. Save. Opening a post office account can be beneficial if you run a business, operate a business from home or receive a great deal of mail. Mail is delivered directly to boxes of different sizes at your local post office, instead of your house or street mailbox. You can access the box with a key when the post office lobby is open. A post office account is given on a first-come, first-served basis. You can renew the account every six months or annually with a new fee.
Notice accounts. If you don’t need to make frequent withdrawals and can wait a fixed period of time before accessing your savings, a notice account could be right for you. In return for more limited access to your cash, you’ll get a higher rate of interest. The Post Office Money notice account is called Reward Saver. Fixed rate bonds. These have a fixed interest rate over a set period of time. They often offer a high interest rate but you have to be confident you won’t need access to your money during the set time period. Post Office Money fixed rate bonds are called Online Bond and Growth Bond.
We have savings accounts you can open with as little as £1 or as much as £500. Some Post Office Money accounts allow you to save flexibly and regularly, others only allow you to deposit a lump sum upon account opening. Fixed rate bonds. These have a fixed interest rate over a set period of time. They often offer a high interest rate but you have to be confident you won’t need access to your money during the set time period. Post Office Money fixed rate bonds are called Online Bond and Growth Bond.
After 12 months the rate will revert to our underlying rate, currently 0.65% gross/AER variable. Interest is calculated daily and will be paid annually in March. Manage your savings online 24/7 with a Post Office Money® Online Saver. Anyone who is a UK resident, resident in the UK for tax purposes and aged 18 or over can apply. Usually we can open your account quickly but you might be asked to provide ID and some documentation. Interest is calculated daily and will be paid annually in March. If interest is paid monthly: 1.59% gross/1.61% AER variable. Rate includes a 0.95% gross fixed rate bonus for 12 months from account opening. After 12 months the rate will revert to our underlying rate, currently 0.64% gross/0.65
Tell the postal clerk you wish to open a post office account and post office box. You will be given a paper form to fill in. This form is only available from your clerk. Give the postal clerk the completed form and your proof of identification and residency. The postal clerk will open your post office account. You can access the box with a key when the post office lobby is open. A post office account is given on a first-come, first-served basis. You can renew the account every six months or annually with a new fee.
The Post Office Limited offer savings accounts which can be found and applied for in branch and online. The Post Office Limited is included within the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Under its savings banner, you will find a range of options such as ISAs, fixed rate bonds, regular savings and easy access accounts, which can be operated both online and offline. However, it’s important to compare any Post Office deals with the wider savings market before investing. If you’re looking to provide for your children’s future, the Post Office also has accounts tailored towards children in the form of Child Trust Funds and children’s savings accounts. The first £85,000 of any savings held with the Post Office is now protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
For deposits from another Post Office® savings account: 1  Select 'Transfer Money in'. 2  Select the Post Office ® savings account you want to move money from the drop down list. 3  Select the account you wish to transfer money to (your Online Saver account). 