You may want to check in the below threads pertaining to this. http://community.sephora.com/t5/Makeup/cross-dress ing-guys/m-p/1562330/highlight/true#M37442.
You don't have to pay for the makeover, that's free, but you are required to spend at least $50 the day of your appointment at most stores. You can request the look you want and I'm sure whoever helps you will answer any question you ask, but remember…most of the employees are NOT professional make up artists.
Some might be great and some might not give you the look you want, it's luck of the draw really. Give yourself enough time to wash your face and redo your own makeup if you don't like the look. It's a 45 minute appointment so they won't generally have time to do it over if you are unhappy.
Report Abuse. You could phone in and ask sephora I know MAC usually charges like $60 or something to do your entire face but you get a mini mascara in return but call sephora and see what they say.
How much does it cost to get my makeup d Beauty Talk Sephora. I want to get my makeup done for a concert. I want the makeup to be kinda crazy to Will For a fun funky look I would charge about $35, but I do hair and all. Even at MAC, when they do a makeover you’re expected to spend on a product.
1.) The notes section when I booked my appointment online was a good place to put a bit of detail on why I was coming in and where I was going with my makeup on after-in my situation I was going to social +work events. I also noted that I'd like to do false eyelashes.
I would just want foundation, a little eye shadow, and make mascara. I know at Sephora they'll apply something for you for free if you want to try something out, but I've never had them actually do my entire face.
does sephora do free makeup on you to or do you have to pay for it or buy a certain amount of products. i have heard they do free makeup on you if you want to. and can you teat out any makeup you want. also is sephoras makeup abit cheap or is it really expensive, and what is the best concealer and foundation from there.