Synaptic signals from other neurons are received by the soma and dendrites; signals to other neurons are transmitted by the axon. A typical synapse, then, is a contact between the axon of one neuron and a dendrite or soma of another. Synaptic signals may be excitatory or inhibitory. A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A multipolar neuron (or multipolar neurone) is a type of neuron that possesses a single (usually long) axon and many dendrites, allowing for the integration of a great deal of information from other neurons. These dendritic branches can also emerge from the nerve cell body. 
Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). 
Neuron. A neuron, or nerve cell is a cell excitability constitute the basic functional unit of the nervous system. The term 'neuron' was introduced into the medical vocabulary in 1881 by German anatomist Heinrich Wilhelm Waldeyer. Neurons provide the transmission of bioelectric signals called nerve impulses. Structure. A neuron observed in scanning electron microscope. Diagram of a neuron. 1  The neuron is composed of a body called the soma or cell body or soma, and two types of extensions: the axon, single, who drives the action potential of centrifugal manner, and dendrites, which averages 7 000 per neuron.
Multipolar neurons are the most common type of neuron. They are located in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and in autonomic ganglia. Multipolar neurons have more than two processes emanating from the neuron cell body.  Fig. 1. Schematic drawing of bipolar, unipolar, and multipolar neurons.
2 Structure of a Multipolar Neuron – Cell Body • Neuron Cell Body – The cell bodies of neurons are located in the gray matter of the central nervous system and in structures called ganglia in the peripheral nervous system. 
Neuron: Description and its Structure. Neuron A neuron, or nerve cell is a cell excitability constitute the basic functional unit of the nervous system. The term 'neuron' was introduced into the medical vocabulary in 1881 by German anatomist Heinrich Wilhelm Waldeyer. Neurons provide the transmission of bioelectric signals called nerve... Structure. A neuron observed in scanning electron microscope. Diagram of a neuron. 1  The neuron is composed of a body called the soma or cell body or soma, and two types of extensions: the axon, single, who drives the action potential of centrifugal manner, and dendrites, which averages 7 000 per neuron.