Home / Theodor Herzl. While Herzl claimed that the establishment of a Jewish state would cure anti-Semitism, he also promoted anti-Semitism to further his cause. Herzl stated in his diary: It would be an excellent idea to call in respectable, accredited anti-Semites as liquidators of property
Tweet. Theodor (Binyamin Ze'ev) Herzl was the visionary behind modern Zionism and the reinstitution of a Jewish homeland. Herzl (born May 2, 1860; died July 3, 1904) was born in Budapest in 1860. He was educated in the spirit of the German-Jewish Enlightenment, and learned to appreciate secular culture. 
Theodor Herzl. Theodor Herzl (May 2, 1860 – July 3, 1904) was an Austro-Hungarian Jewish journalist and playwright who became the founder of modern political Zionism. His Hebrew personal name was Binyamin Ze'ev. The Dreyfus Affair convinced Herzl that assimilation into European society would not protect Jews from anti-Semitism and that the creation of a Jewish state was the only solution. Early Life. Herzl was born in Budapest. He settled in Vienna in his boyhood, and was educated there for the law, taking the required Austrian legal degrees, but he devoted himself almost exclusively to journalism and literature.
Herzl probably first experienced anti-Semitism while studying at the University of Vienna (1882). He thought of the Jewish problem as a social issue and wrote a play, The Ghetto (1894), about the dilemma of Vienna Jewry, in which assimilation and conversion were rejected as solutions. Herzl's ideas were rejected in Western Europe. Herzl was turned down by Jewish magnates such as Baron Hirsch and Baron Rothschild. Herzl then appealed to the people, organizing the First Zionist Congress in Basle, Switzerland, on August 29 31, 1897.
It is named for Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern political Zionism. Herzl's tomb lies at the top of the hill. Yad Vashem, which commemorates the Holocaust, lies to the west of Mt. Herzl. Israel's war dead are also buried there. Mount Herzl is 834 meters above sea level. In 1903, Theodor Herzl wrote in his will: I wish to be buried in a metal coffin next to my father, and to remain there until the Jewish people will transfer my remains to Eretz Israel.
Synopsis. Theodor Herzl was born on May 2, 1860, in Budapest, Hungary. From 1879 to 1882, he was a journalist for Allgemeine Zeitung of Vienna. Afterward, he became a correspondent for the Vienna Neue Freie Presse in Paris and covered the Dreyfus Affair. 
Herzl died in 1904, and was buried on Mount Herzl in Jerusalem. He is credited with being the father of political Zionism. More Biographies of Famous Jewish Leaders Theodor Herzl was born in Budapest. He received a law degree, but chose to concentrate on writing. He was 31 years old in 1891 when he moved to Paris as the correspondent for the Vienna Neue Freie Presse. Encountering anti-Semitism, he assumed that the solution was for Jews to totally assimilate. By Lisa Katz.
In 1878 the Herzls moved to Vienna, where Theodor Herzl studied law in the university of Vienna, graduating in 1884. However, rather than studying law, Herzl became a writer, a playwright and a journalist, acting as Paris correspondent for influential liberal Vienna newspaper Neue Freie Presse. Herzl's ideas were rejected in Western Europe. Herzl was turned down by Jewish magnates such as Baron Hirsch and Baron Rothschild. Herzl then appealed to the people, organizing the First Zionist Congress in Basle, Switzerland, on August 29 31, 1897.
Herzl concluded that anti-Semitism was a stable and immutable factor, which assimilation would not solve, and which it was futile to combat. Despite ridicule from Jewish leaders, he published The Jewish State (Der Judenstaat) in 1896. Herzl's ideas were rejected in Western Europe. Herzl was turned down by Jewish magnates such as Baron Hirsch and Baron Rothschild. Herzl then appealed to the people, organizing the First Zionist Congress in Basle, Switzerland, on August 29 31, 1897.
Herzl outlined his vision for a Jewish state in Der Judenstaat (The Jewish State, 1896). The book described the practical functions of a secular, cosmopolitan state, where the best ideas and technology of the west could come together in an environment free from anti-Semitism. 