The most common representative is dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12 or Freon-12). Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are a family of chemical compounds developed back in the 1930's as safe, non-toxic, non-flammable alternative to dangerous substances like ammonia for purposes of refrigeration and spray can propellants.
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are nontoxic, nonflammable chemicals containing atoms of carbon, chlorine, and fluorine. They are used in the manufacture of aerosol sprays, blowing agents for foams and packing materials, as solvents, and as refrigerants.
CFCs (also known as Freons) are a family of chemicals based upon hydrocarbon skeletons (most often methane), where some or all of the hydrogens have been replaced with chlorine and/or fluorine atoms. These compounds are non-flammable, tasteless and odourless, and chemically stable.
Scientists have discovered that the depletion of this majestic ozone layer is caused by chlorofluorocarbons or CFC for short, and they are compounds consisting of chlorine, carbon and fluorine. They were widely used as propellants for aerosols and as coolants in refrigerators and air-conditioners.
CFC's-ChloroFluoroCarbons-are a class of volatile organic compounds that have been used as refrigerants, aerosol propellants, foam blowing agents, and as solvents in the e … lectronic industry ChloroFluroCarbon a fluorocarbon with chlorine; Commercially, the most important CFCs were derivatives of methane and ethane.
CFC'S or Chlorofluorocarbons are molecules which demolish the ozone layer. The ozone layer is made up of O3 or ozone molecules these reflect UV rays (harmful ultra violet ligh … t) the CFC'S smash up the O3 into O2 molecules (the type we breathe) these do not reflect UV so we suffer.
CFCs. Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well.
CFCs Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. Freon is DuPont's brand name for CFCs, HCFCs and related compounds.
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are a group of compounds which contain the elements chlorine, fluorine and carbon. At room temperatures, they are usually colourless gases or liquids which evaporate easily. They are generally unreactive and stable, non-toxic and non-flammable.