Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Earth's velocity in its orbit around the sun isn't constant because it's not a circle but instead elliptical. That means that at times Earth will be farther away from the sun than at others. Farther away equals slower orbital velocity, closer equals faster velocity. The average velocity is 67,108 mph. 
Because the CBR permeates all space, we can finally answer the original question fully, using the CBR as the frame of reference. The earth is moving with respect to the CBR at a speed of 390 kilometers per second. We can also specify the direction relative to the CBR. It is more fun, though, to look up into the night sky and find the constellation known as Leo (the Lion). In 1989, the COBE satellite was placed in orbit about the earth (again, the earth is the frame of reference!) to measure the long-diluted radiation echo of the birth of our universe.
Movement of the Earth through Space. The 24-hour-per-day spin of the Earth accounts for the Coriolis force.. The Earth is 40,000 kilometers (24,900 miles) around at its widest part, the equator. Because it spins on its axis once in 24 hours, a point on the Earth's equator is traveling about 1,700 km per hour (1,000 miles per hour) relative to its axis. 
Relative to the local standard of rest, our Sun and the Earth are moving at about 43,000 miles per hour (70,000 km/hr) roughly in the direction of the bright star Vega in the constellation of Lyra. This speed is not unusual for the stars around us and is our milling around speed in our suburban part of the Galaxy. To make one complete rotation in 24 hours, a point near the equator of the Earth must move at close to 1000 miles per hour (1600 km/hr). The speed gets less as you move north, but it's still a good clip throughout the United States.
For those of us living at Earth's midlatitudes -- including the United States, Europe, and Japan -- the rate is almost a thousand miles an hour. The rate is higher at the equator and lower at the poles. In addition to this daily rotation, Earth orbits the Sun at an average speed of 67,000 mph, or 18.5 miles a second. Perhaps that seems a bit sluggish -- after all, Mars Pathfinder journeyed to Mars at nearly 75,000 miles per hour. The Milky Way itself is moving through the vastness of intergalactic space. Our galaxy belongs to a cluster of nearby galaxies, the Local Group, and together we are easing toward the center of our cluster at a leisurely 2
When we are on a smoothly riding train, we sometimes get the illusion that the train is standing still and the trees or buildings are moving backwards. In the same way, because we ride with the spinning Earth, it appears to us that the Sun and the stars are the ones doing the moving as day and night alternate. But actually, it is our planet that turns on its axis once a day -- and all of us who live on the Earth's surface are moving with it. To make one complete rotation in 24 hours, a point near the equator of the Earth must move at close to 1000 miles per hour (1600 km/hr). The speed gets less as you move north, but it's still a good clip throughout the United States.
The full path of the Earth's orbit is close to 600 million miles (970 million km). To go around this immense circle in one year takes a speed of 66,000 miles per hour (107,000 km/hr) . At this speed, you could get from San Francisco to Washington DC in 3 minutes. To make one complete rotation in 24 hours, a point near the equator of the Earth must move at close to 1000 miles per hour (1600 km/hr). The speed gets less as you move north, but it's still a good clip throughout the United States.
Thus, the surface of the earth at the equator moves at a speed of 460 meters per second--or roughly 1,000 miles per hour. As schoolchildren, we learn that the earth is moving about our sun in a very nearly circular orbit. In 1989, the COBE satellite was placed in orbit about the earth (again, the earth is the frame of reference!) to measure the long-diluted radiation echo of the birth of our universe.
Of course, there's more motions than Earth's daily “spin” on its axis to consider.Besides rotating on its axis, the Earth is moving around the Sun, the whole Solar System is moving around the Galaxy and the Galaxy is moving through space! We know the Earth is moving in nearly circular orbit around the Sun. We are moving along in this orbit at almost 30 kilometers per second, or just over 67,000 miles per hour. Our planet is a slightly flattened sphere with a circumference of 40,075 km at the equator. This means that at the equator, the Earth is spinning with a speed of 460 m/s, about 1,070 mph. This speed decreases as you move to higher latitudes because the circle is smaller.