Normally, the kitten weaning process begins at about four weeks of age. “With mom, they’ll start to try to eat her food, and she’ll push them away from her,” says Benson. But if you’re weaning a kitten that has been orphaned, you can start a little earlier, between three and four weeks. 
By the time the kittens are 8 to 12 weeks of age, they should be eating solid food and no longer nursing. For most kittens, separation from the mother should be delayed until the kittens are 12 weeks of age, to allow normal socialization and bonding. 
Determine when to wean your kitten. The weaning process begins when kittens are around four weeks old. For most kittens, this process is usually completed when they reach eight to ten weeks old. Once a kitten has opened its eyes, is able to focus, and can walk steadily, you can begin the process. 
By the time the kittens are 6-8 weeks of age, they should be very able to eat straight canned kitten food. When that time comes, I strongly recommend that you purchase a good brand of kitten food and I recommend you feed only canned. When the kittens are between 3 and 4 weeks of age, it is time to begin the process of weaning them. It is time to teach the kittens to eat from a dish.
Weaning. Weaning simply means a baby no longer nurses from its mother and receives nutrition from a non-maternal source. For kittens, the process starts as early as 4 weeks of age, completed by the time they're 2 to 3 months old. It's not a good idea to let kittens go to a new home before the age of 8 weeks. 
How to wean kittens. Kittens can usually be started on the weaning process at three weeks of age and should be fully weaned by six to eight weeks. If you serve your kitten canned food, mash it up and mix it with water to form gruel. You can even smear this on your kitten’s lips to encourage her to lick it off. 
Weaning refers to the process by which a kitten goes from mother's milk to solid food. The process generally begins when a kitten is around four weeks old and should be complete by eight to ten weeks. Weaning can begin earlier in the case of orphaned or hand-fed kittens. Pet owners should make the transition as easy as possible for kittens.
The weaning process normally begins when kittens are around four weeks old, and is usually completed when they reach eight to ten weeks. When the kittens reach four weeks old, you can place them in a separate area for a few hours at a time to reduce their dependency on mother’s milk and her overall presence. Put them in their own special area with a litter box and food and water bowls.
Weaning. Mothers usually begin to wean their kittens at about 4 weeks of age. By 8 weeks of age, the kittens are eating solid food. Older kittens who are still with their mothers may occasionally nurse, but this is more for comfort and reassurance than for nutrition. 
Weaning is the process of transitioning kittens from mother’s milk to solid food. During weaning, kittens gradually progress from dependence on a mother’s care to social independence. Ideally, weaning is handled entirely by the mother cat. When the kittens reach four weeks old, you can place them in a separate area for a few hours at a time to reduce their dependency on mother’s milk and her overall presence. Put them in their own special area with a litter box and food and water bowls.