the river is 112km or 70 miles   The River Severn rises at Plynlimmon in Wales. It flows through Shrewsbury, Bridgnorth, Worcester, Tewkesbury & Gloucester & on into the Br … istol Channel. It contains all manner of coarse & game fish. It is 220 Miles. 354 km long. With an average discharge of 107 m³/s at Hawbridge (Gloucestershire), the Severn is England's largest river in terms of water flow. The Severn's drainage basin area is 11,420 km², excluding the River Wye and River Avon|Bristol Avon. It is one of the ten major rivers in the United Kingdom.
For other rivers named Severn, see Severn River (disambiguation) . The Severn River runs 14 miles (23 km) through Anne Arundel County in the U.S. state of Maryland. It is located south of the Magothy River, and north of the South River. The Severn is crossed by two bridges. One, known as the Severn River Bridge or Pearl Harbor Memorial Bridge, carries US 50 / US 301 / MD 2 and was first built in 1886. The other carries MD 450, and is now officially named the . US Naval Academy Bridge  because its south end is near the academy.
The River Severn, famous for its tidal bore, is the longest river in Britain. It flows for around 220 miles from its source in the Welsh Cambrian mountains, through Shropshire, Worcestershire and Gloucestershire, finally emptying into the Bristol Channel. 
The River Severn is the longest river in the United Kingdom with a total length of around 219 miles. Its source can be found on Plynlimon near Llanidloes in Powys, Wales and it becomes the Severn Estuary before flowing into the Bristol Channel. 
the river is 112km or 70 miles   The River Severn rises at Plynlimmon in Wales. It flows through Shrewsbury, Bridgnorth, Worcester, Tewkesbury & Gloucester & on into the Br … istol Channel. It contains all manner of coarse & game fish. It is 220 Miles. 354 km long. Gloucester, Wales, is probably the largest city on the Severn, which is England's largest river. Tewkesbury, Worcester, Stourport, Bridgnorth, Ironbridge, Shrewsbury, We … lshpool and Newtown are further back upstream.   Need a link to the Wikipedia article on the River Severn?
The River Severn (Welsh: Afon Hafren, Latin: Sabrina) is the longest river in the United Kingdom, at about 220 miles (354 km). It rises at an altitude of 2,001 feet (610 m) on Plynlimon, Ceredigion near Llanidloes, Powys, in the Cambrian Mountains of mid Wales. With an average discharge of 107 m³/s at Apperley, Gloucestershire, the Severn is the greatest river in terms of water flow in England and Wales. The river is usually considered to become the Severn Estuary after the Second Severn Crossing between Severn Beach, South Gloucestershire and Sudbrook, Monmouthshire. The river then discharges into the Bristol Channel which in turn discharges into the Celtic Sea and the wider Atlantic Ocean
The River Severn is the longest British river, at 354 kilometres (220 miles). It rises at an altitude of 610 metres on Plynlimon near Llanidloes, in the Cambrian Mountains, Mid Wales, and it passes through a number of English counties, with the county towns of Shrewsbury, Worcester, and Gloucester located on its banks. With an average discharge of 107 m³/s at Hawbridge (Gloucestershire), the Severn is England's largest river in terms of water flow. The Severn's drainage basin area is 11,420 km², excluding the River Wye and River Avon|Bristol Avon. It is one of the ten major rivers in the United Kingdom.
Report Abuse. Technically where it joins the Bristol Channel. The River Severn extends down to the Second Severn Crossing. The Severn Estuary begins at this point and stretches to a line from Lavernock Point (south of Cardiff) to Sand Point near Weston-super-Mare. West of this line is the Bristol Channel. It becomes the Severn Estuary near Aust in Gloucestershire so I suppose that's what you could call the end. Normally the definition is the point at which a river becomes tidal. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/River_Sever...