Giles [dʒaɪlz] is the Medieval English form of the Old French saints' name Giles, an altered form of Latin Aegidius. 
English Meaning: The name Christian is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Christian is: Follower of Christ. Danish Meaning: The name Christian is a Danish baby name. In Danish the meaning of the name Christian is: Believes in Christ. Latin Meaning: The name Christian is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Christian is: From Christianus meaning Christian. Famous bearer: Christian was the hero of John Bunyan's 'The Pilgrim's Progress'.
This interesting surname is of Pre Christian, Ancient Greek origin. It is a short form of Aegidius, meaning a wearer of the goatskin, a refernce to a holy man, or somebody who did good works. The name was introduced into England and Scotland by the Normans, with the names Gilo and Ghilo appearing in the Domesday Book of 1086. In the modern idiom the surname has many spellings, and is found in almost every European country.
Origin of the name Christian: Derived from the Latin christiānus (a Christian, a follower of Christ), which is from the Greek christianos (a Christian, a follower of Christ). Short: Chris. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Christian: | Edit. I always found this name odd...It's like naming a child Jew or Bhuddist.. The name Christian is #4 on the list of top 100 cool baby boy names in the baby name book Cool Names by Pamela Redmond Satran. Christian was once a girl's name
The one-stop resource for the English language and more ... Here is fairly comprehensive list of first (Christian) names used in the English-speaking world (Great Britain, the United States, Ireland; Australia etc.). It also includes an indication of the traditional meaning of these names. It should of some use to anyone thinking about choosing a name for a baby or interested in finding out what their own name means. Top 10 English names. A-C / D-F / G-I / J-L / M-O / P-R / S-U / V-Z.
THE MEANING OF ENGLISH NAMES. Here is fairly comprehensive list of first (Christian) names used in the English-speaking world (Great Britain, the United States, Ireland; Australia etc.). It also includes an indication of the traditional meaning of these names. It should of some use to anyone thinking about choosing a name for a baby or interested in finding out what their own name means. Top 10 English names. A-C / D-F / G-I / J-L / M-O / P-R / S-U / V-Z.
Gabriel The biblical name of God's messenger, the angel who was sent to Mary (Luke 1:26), Zechariah (Luke 1:19) and Daniel (Daniel 8:16). It is a Hebrew name and it means 'God's man'. Goeffrey (Shortened Geoff) see Jeffrey. George The most famous of this name is St. George who was a martyr in Palestine. A few of saints are of this name. It is of German origin and it means 'deep promise'. Giles. This names originates from Greek and it means 'infant goat'. Several saints are of this name. Godfrey. This names is of German origin and it means 'God's peace'. Gregory. One pope and more than thirty saints are of this name.
4 Articles in: Christian Baby Names-Baby Names from the Bible. This collection of Christian baby boy names brings together Bible names or names derived from biblical words, including the language, origin and meaning.