the main function unit of the kidney is the nephron   The kidneys regulate the body's fluid volume, mineral composition and acidity by excreting and reabsorbing water and inorganic electrolytes. The Function of the Kidney is to get rid of waste and excess body fluid. Example: The Kidneys job is to keep the flow of urine through t … he Kidney and then back out of the Kidney.
Report Abuse. The nephron is the functional unit of the kidney, responsible for the actual purification and filtration of the blood. About one million nephrons are in the cortex of each kidney, and each one consists of a renal corpuscle and a renal tubule which carry out the functions of the nephron. Report Abuse. The nephron is the functional unit of the kidney. This consists of the renal corpuscle, proximal convoluted tubule, loop of henly. the distal convoluted tubule and the collecting duct.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Report Abuse. The nephron is the functional unit of the kidney. This consists of the renal corpuscle, proximal convoluted tubule, loop of henly. the distal convoluted tubule and the collecting duct.
the hepatic lobule is the structural and functional unit of the liver. there are about 50,000 - 1,00,000 lobules in the liver. the lobule is a honey comb like structure and it … is made up of liver cells called hepatocytes. that is called the nephron. and due to pressure filtration in the cluster of blood vessels present in them, wastes are removed. Edit. Share to: Karin L. 270,023 Contributions. There's more to farming than dirt, cows, and a pair of bib overalls.
You've already chosen the best response. Nephron: the functional Unit of the Kidney A cross section of the Kidney shows that it is arranged into two layers; an outer cortex and inner medulla. 
They are the functioning unit of the kidneys. They remove waste from the body and produces urine. Each nephron is made up of two parts: a renal corpuscle and renal tubules (Figure 1). Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the nephron demonstrating the site of action of diuretics. Source: PostGraduate Medical Journal. 1 This is the head of the nephron and it is where urine first forms. 2  It consists of the glomerulus, which is surrounded by the Bowman’s capsule (figure 2). 3  The glomerulus is like a network of capillaries. 4  It look somewhat like a roll of yarn. 5  The Bowman’s capsule, around the glomerulus, shapes like a funne
Nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nephron It is composed of a renal corpuscle and a renal tubule. The renal corp … uscle consists of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. that is called the nephron. and due to pressure filtration in the cluster of blood vessels present in them, wastes are removed. Edit. Share to: Karin L. 270,023 Contributions. There's more to farming than dirt, cows, and a pair of bib overalls.
Most people know that a major function of the kidneys is to remove waste products and excess fluid from the body. These waste products and excess fluid are removed through the urine. 