Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A native species is an organism that is living in an area for entirely natural reasons, with no human intervention involved. This may be because the organism evolved in that environment, or it may have been brought there by natural causes. Two types of native species are recognized: endemic species are found only in the area concerned, while indigenous species are also found naturally in other areas. Endemic organisms are particularly vulnerable to extinction as they may be confined to a very small region and to particular habitats within that region.
Native species are those that occur in the region in which they evolved. Plants evolve over geologic time in response to physical and biotic processes characteristic of a region: the climate, soils, timing of rainfall, drought, and frost; and interactions with the other species inhabiting the local community. 
1 Native species have adapted to the local climate and soil conditions. 2  This means that they do not need as many resources such as watering or fertilizers to grow properly. 3  What is considered 'poor' soil for an exotic plant might be ideal conditions for a native species to thrive. 
For humans, see Indigenous peoples. In biogeography, a species is defined as indigenous to a given region or ecosystem if its presence in that region is the result of only natural processes, with no human intervention. The term is equivalent to native in less scientific usage. An indigenous species is not necessarily endemic. In biology and ecology, endemic means exclusively native to the biota of a specific place. An indigenous species may occur in areas other than the one under consideration.
Examples. There are two types of native species, indigenous and endemic. Indigenous species are native species that are found in multiple locations, whereas endemic species are only found in a specific, unique location. We often find endemic species in geographically isolated areas such as islands. Native species are plants and animals that originated and live in an area without any human intervention. Non-native species have been introduced by humans, and often become invasive.
Native vs. Non-Native Species. Native Plant. 1  Evolved in a particular region over a long period of time. 2  Adapts to the climate, hydrology and geology of its region. 3  Found in “communities”, meaning they have grown together with other plant species providing habitat for wildlife. 1 Non-native plants have no natural enemies or predators, so there is nothing to stop them from spreading. 2  Ultimately, they can take over entire “communities” of native plants that support a variety of wildlife and create a monoculture. 3  Most native plants disappear leaving only the non-native plants.
Native species can be either endemic (found only within a particular region) or indigenous (found both within the region and elsewhere). Many of the native species in Hawai‘i have become endangered because of the loss of habitat and competition from introduced species. Examples: nēnē, ‘ōhi‘a, koa, pulelehua. ‘Ōhi‘a Lehua or Metrosideros polymorpha is a Hawaiian endemic plant. 
More than 500 fish and wildlife nonnative species, also known as exotic species, have been observed in Florida. Not all nonnative species present a threat to native species, but some have become invasive by causing harm to native species, posing a threat to human health and safety, or causing economic damage. 
An organism may become a native species after being carried by birds to a territory. Islands tend to house a great number of native species. A native species lives in an area for natural reasons, with no human intervention involved. Two types of native species are recognized: endemic species are found only in the area concerned, while indigenous species are also found naturally in other areas. Endemic organisms are particularly vulnerable to extinction as they may be confined to a very small region and to particular habitats within that region.