In 1898, Congress approved a fourth act that, with revisions, governed bankruptcy proceedings for 80 years. The act of 1898 established the position of referee, to be appointed by the district court judges and to serve as an administrator for bankruptcy cases. In 1984, Congress responded to the ruling with an act (98 Stat. 333) that declared the bankruptcy courts to be units of the U.S. district courts and provided for the appointment of bankruptcy judges by the U.S. courts of appeals.
During the nineteenth century, the federal government exercised its bankruptcy powers only sporadically and in response to major economic downturns. The first bankruptcy law lasted from 1800 to 1803, the second from 1841 to 1843, and the third from 1867 to 1878. During the periods without a federal bankruptcy law, debtor-creditor relations were governed solely by the states. History of Bankruptcy. Early English bankruptcy laws were designed to assist creditors in collecting the debtor’s assets, not to protect the debtor or discharge (forgive) his debts. The Bankruptcy Clause of the U.S. Constitution also reflects this procreditor purpose of early bankruptcy law.
Prior to the BAPCPA Amendments, debtors of all incomes could file for bankruptcy under Chapter 7. BAPCPA restricted the number of debtors that could declare Chapter 7 bankruptcy. The act sets out a method to calculate a debtor's income, and compares this amount to the median income of the debtor's state. Since banks, credit companies and other creditors are the ones who must bear the losses for debts discharged through bankruptcy, their lobby power was a great supporting factor to eventually prevailing and forcing legislatures to pass the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.
The 2005 bankruptcy bill was actually first drafted in 1997 and first introduced in 1998. The United States House of Representatives approved a version titled the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1999 and the Senate approved a slightly different version in 2000. Since banks, credit companies and other creditors are the ones who must bear the losses for debts discharged through bankruptcy, their lobby power was a great supporting factor to eventually prevailing and forcing legislatures to pass the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.
The Act was essentially a reaction to the U.S. Supreme Court's 1976 ruling in United States v. Miller, where the Court found that bank customers had no legal right to privacy in financial information held by financial institutions. 425 U.S. 435 (1976). The customer then has 10 days from the date of services, or 14 days from the date of mailing, to challenge the requested disclosure. The Act only governs disclosures to the federal government, its officers, agents, agencies, and departments.
The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA) made changes to American bankruptcy laws, affecting both consumer and business bankruptcies. Many of the bill's provisions were explicitly designed by the bill's Congressional sponsors to make it more difficult for people to file for bankruptcy. Since banks, credit companies and other creditors are the ones who must bear the losses for debts discharged through bankruptcy, their lobby power was a great supporting factor to eventually prevailing and forcing legislatures to pass the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.
New Bankruptcy Laws Introduced. Legislation giving effect to changes in the bankruptcy code were signed into law on 3 December 2013 by the Minister for Justice, Alan Shatter. Reduction in discharge period. A bankrupt person can now be automatically discharged from bankruptcy after 3 years, reduced from 12 years. However the right to discharge, while automatic, is not absolute. The Official Assignee or a creditor can apply to the court to object to the automatic discharge. Any existing bankruptcies for 3 years or more at today’s date will be automatically discharged after a period of six months. Bankruptcy payment orders. An automatic discharge may not however be the end of the road for the bankrupt. The court, on application to it by the Official Assignee, has discretion to order a bankrupt to make payments to creditors in discharge of his debts for a period of up to 5 years
As regards the debtor’s discharge, in the first couple years of the Bankruptcy Act of 1867, creditor consent was not required. Subsequently, and for the remainder of the Act’s tenure, some form of creditor consent was required. The Bankruptcy Act of 1891 was not repealed until the passage of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. The Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as amended, it the Bankruptcy Code of today. Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, Pub.
The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA) (Pub.L. 109–8, 119 Stat. 23, enacted April 20, 2005), is a legislative act that made several significant changes to the United States Bankruptcy Code. Since banks, credit companies and other creditors are the ones who must bear the losses for debts discharged through bankruptcy, their lobby power was a great supporting factor to eventually prevailing and forcing legislatures to pass the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.