First, your hair grows from follicles within the skin. The part of the hair inside the follicle (below the skin's surface) is known as the hair root, while the portion you see protruding from the head is the hair shaft. At the base of the hair root is the hair bulb where nutrients are received and new cells are formed.
Hair is simple in structure, but has important functions in social functioning. Hair is made of a tough protein called keratin. A hair follicle anchors each hair into the skin. The hair bulb forms the base of the hair follicle. In the hair bulb, living cells divide and grow to build the hair shaft. 
Hair is composed primarily of proteins (88%). These proteins are of a hard fibrous type known as keratin. Keratin protein is comprised of what we call polypeptide chains.” The word, polypeptide, comes from the Greek word poly meaning many and peptos meaning digested or broken down. 
Hair is a protein filament that grows from follicles found in the dermis, or skin. Hair is one of the defining characteristics of mammals. The human body, apart from areas of glabrous skin, is covered in follicles which produce thick terminal and fine vellus hair. 
Hair Follicles. Hair grows from hair follicles, which are embedded below the skin on your scalp. The portion of the strand of hair that is in the hair follicle is known as the root. The part that you can see, touch and style is called the hair strand. At the base of the root in the hair follicle is the hair bulb. As cells are made, they are added to the base of the hair stand in the portion known as the “bulb”. Older parts of the hair are pushed outward, lengthening the strand in a process that’s commonly referred to as growth. The newest part of your visible hair is the part located the closest to your head.
A: The best way to answer this question is to reverse the two parts. First, your hair grows from follicles within the skin. The part of the hair inside the follicle (below the skin's surface) is known as the hair root, while the portion you see protruding from the head is the hair shaft. At the base of the hair root is the hair bulb where nutrients are received and new cells are formed.
Your hair is made up of two distinct structures: the follicle and the shaft. The follicle, a tubelike segment in the epidermis, sits under the surface of the skin and extends down into the dermis. The base of the follicle contains tiny blood vessels that nourish the cells. The living part of the hair is the bulb at the base, while the shaft-the part of the hair that we see above the skin-is dead. The hair shaft is made up of a protein called keratin. The inner layer (the medulla) and the middle layer (the cortex) constitute the majority of
Your hair is made up of two distinct structures: the follicle and the shaft. The follicle is a tunnel-like segment in the epidermis portion of your skin. It resides under the surface of the skin and extends down into the dermis. The base of the follicle contains tiny blood vessels that nourish the hair cells. The living part of the hair is the bulb at the base, while the shaft-the part of the hair that we see above the skin-is dead. The hair shaft is made up of a protein called keratin. The inner layer (the medulla) and the middle layer (the cortex) constitute the majority of
What is hair fiber made of. The primary component of hair fiber is keratin. Keratins are proteins, long chains (polymers) of amino acids. Keratin proteins form the cytoskeleton (miniature skeleton within a cell) of all epidermal cells. As you might have guessed, hair fiber is mostly made from hard keratin proteins. Hair contains a high amount of sulfur because the amino acid cysteine is a key component of the keratin proteins in hair fiber.
There are various elements found in the hair and they are used to make amino acids, keratin, melanin, and protein. The average compostion of normal hair is composed of 45.2 % carbon, 27.9% oxygen, 6.6% hydrogen, 15.1% nitrogen and 5.2a% sulphur. The keratin found in hair is called hard keratin. 