Sulfate is a major anion in the urine that has significant affinity for cations and modulates the availability of cations for reacting with other anions in the urine. It thus is an important factor of urinary supersaturation(4) for various crystals or stones such as calcium oxalate, hydroxyapatite, and brushite. Urinary sulfate is a reflection of dietary protein intake, particularly of meat, and thus can be used as an index of nutritional protein intake.
At higher protein intakes, the proportion of protein sulfur excreted as sulfate in urine was reduced (85% recovery at the average protein intake of 72 g/d and 70% at 212 g protein/d). A linear regression line through the origin for urinary sulfate from protein against total urinary nitrogen has an r 2 = 0.86 (Figure 3 ⇑), which suggests that the percentages of sulfur and nitrogen from protein excreted in urine are very similar for different people over a wide range of protein intakes.
Interpretation Provides information to assist in interpretation of the test results. Urinary sulfate is a reflection of dietary protein intake, particularly of meat, and thus can be used as an index of nutritional protein intake. It also is used in the calculation of urinary supersaturation of various crystals or stone
Results: Dietary inorganic sulfur was efficiently excreted as sulfate in urine. Urinary sulfate derived from protein correlated strongly (r 2 = 0.86) with urinary nitrogen. Urinary recovery of protein sulfur and nitrogen decreased from 84% at average protein intakes (72 g/d) to 70% at high protein intakes (212 g/d). A linear regression line through the origin for urinary sulfate from protein against total urinary nitrogen has an r 2 = 0.86 (Figure 3 ⇑), which suggests that the percentages of sulfur and nitrogen from protein excreted in urine are very similar for different people over a wide range of protein intakes.
The kidneys help control the amount of phosphate in the body. Extra phosphate is filtered by the kidneys and passes out of the body in the urine. If there is not enough phosphate, less is found in the urine. Kidney problems can cause high or low levels of phosphate in the urine. High levels of phosphate in the urine also may be caused by eating a meal high in phosphorus, having high levels of vitamin D in your body, or having an overactive parathyroid gland. Guide. The phosphate urine test measures the amount of phosphate in a sample of urine collected over 24 hours (24-hour urine test). Phosphate is a charged particle (ion) that contains the mineral phosphorus. The body needs phosphorus to build and repair bones and teeth, help nerves function, and make muscles contract.
1 Recognition and analysis of abnormalities of urine can provide information about the condition of the body. 2  Biochemical analysis of urine is called urinalysis, and is commonly used to diagnose a wide range of diseases. 3  Typical volume of urine: 1-2 litres / 24 hours per day (normal adult). The biochemicals found in urine are predominately the end-products of the nitrogen metabolism process. These include urea, uric acid, and creatinine. Other components of urine include sodium chloride (common salt), and over 100 other substances that are usually present, but only in trace (i.e. very small) quantities.
Measurement of total sulfate in urine and feces was carried out on acid-hydrolyzed samples by IEC as above but with an AS9-SC Dionex column (16). Acid hydrolysis of samples (1:1 with 1.6 mol HCl/L overnight at 90 °C) ensured release of any bound sulfate present. A linear regression line through the origin for urinary sulfate from protein against total urinary nitrogen has an r 2 = 0.86 (Figure 3 ⇑), which suggests that the percentages of sulfur and nitrogen from protein excreted in urine are very similar for different people over a wide range of protein intakes.
If your sulfate in urine is high it might mean one of several things. The kidney is the place where your body is supposed to reabsorb sulfate after it has been filtered in the glomerulus. This reabsorption happens in the proximal tubules where there are sulfate transporters on the urine side, and on the blood side. These two types of transporters are different molecules and are regulated differently. 
3-14. NORMAL CRYSTALS FOUND IN ACID URINE It is important to be able to identify normal crystals found in urine so that one can recognize the presence of abnormal crystals. a. Uric Acid Crystals (figire 3-18). Uric acid crystals are often found in acid specimens, particularly after standing for extended periods of time.
Calcium oxalate crystals are commonly found in acid urine but may also be seen in neutral or slightly alkaline specimens. They are usually not significant, and their presence is frequently the result of a diet rich in oxalic acid (for example, tomatoes, spinach, rhubarb, and asparagus). It is important to be able to identify normal crystals found in urine so that one can recognize the presence of abnormal crystals. a. Uric Acid Crystals (figire 3-18). Uric acid crystals are often found in acid specimens, particularly after standing for extended periods of time.