Etymology & Historical Origin-Liana. Liana developed as a short form for any name that ends in “Liana” such as (but not limited to) Eliana, Juliana and Liliana. The name Liana as an independently given name has been in use among the Italians, Portuguese, Spanish, French and English. It is also popular among Eastern Europeans and Slavs
Latin Meaning: The name Liana is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Liana is: F: Youthful. The feminine form of Julian. Famous Bearer: Former Queen Juliana of the Netherlands. 
[ 3 syll. lia-na, li-ana ] The baby girl name Liana is pronounced as Liy-AE N-aa- †. Liana is used predominantly in English, French, German, Italian, and Portuguese, and it is derived from Latin, Old Greek, and French origins. From French roots, its meaning is vine. The French 'lier' refers to a type of tropical jungle vine. The name can also be derived as a short form of other names ending in '-liana'. In addition, Liana is a contracted form (English, French, German, Italian, and Portuguese) of the name Eliana (English, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish). Liana is also a variation of the name Helen (English)
Liana /li-ana/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced lee-AHN-ah. It is of French origin, and the meaning of Liana is to twine around. Name of a vine common to tropical rain forests. Also short form of names like Liliana and Juliana, or a variant of Eliana. Kreatif forms: Liala, Liata, Liona. Liana is a very prominent first name for women (#1870 out of 4276, Top 44%) and a slightly less prominent surname for both adults and children (#111740 out of 150436, Top 74%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Liana for girls.
The meaning of Liana has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Liana are: 1  American meaning: To bind or wrap around. 2  French meaning: To bind or wrap around. 3  Hebrew meaning: To bind like a vine. 4  Spanish meaning: My God has answered. 5  Latin meaning: Bound by vines. 6  Persian-Iranian meaning: Glowing lady
Meaning of Liana. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Liana means-my god has answered. Other origins for the name Liana include-Israeli, Spanish, French, English.The name Liana is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-my god has answered. Origin-Israel. Alternate Origins-Spanish French English.