Central nervous system lymphoma, primary: Introduction. Central nervous system lymphoma, primary: A type of lymphoma that occurs in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). A lymphoma consists of cancerous lymphocytes which are a type of white blood cell. Symptoms vary according to the location of the lymphoma
1 Primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph tissue of the brain and/or spinal cord. 2  Having a weakened immune system may increase the risk of developing primary CNS lymphoma. Lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph system. The lymph system is part of the immune system and is made up of the lymph, lymph vessels, lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils, and bone marrow. Lymphocytes (carried in the lymph) travel in and out of the central nervous system (CNS).
INTRODUCTION. Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is an uncommon variant of extranodal non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that involves the brain, leptomeninges, eyes, or spinal cord without evidence of systemic disease. 
Primary central nervous system lymphoma. Primary central nervous system lymphoma is an uncommon form of extranodal non-Hodgkin lymphoma where malignant cells form in the lymph tissue of the brain and/or spinal cord. The most common site for primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma is the brain. There may be more than one tumour present, although 60- 70% of cases have a single tumour. Primary CNS lymphoma may also start in the layers that form the outer covering of the brain (meninges) or in the eyes (ocular lymphoma).
Primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph tissue of the brain and/or spinal cord. Lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph system. The lymph system is part of the immune system and is made up of the lymph, lymph vessels, lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils, and bone marrow. Lymphocytes (carried in the lymph) travel in and out of the central nervous system (CNS).
Primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma (PCNSL) is a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that starts in the brain or spinal cord (central nervous system or CNS). Most primary CNS lymphomas are B-cell lymphomas, most often diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL). 
Introduction. Primary central nervous system lymphoma is a rare form of extranodal non-Hodgkin lymphoma that affects the brain, spinal cord, leptomeninges, and eyes. Although this entity is rare, PCNSL has been the subject of intensive research since the late 1980s, when Eby, et al., first reported its rising incidence. Summary. Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that affects the brain, spinal cord, leptomeninges, and eyes. The clinical presentation and neuroimaging appearance of PCNSL differ in immunocompetent patients and in those with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).