Kanban is another framework used to implement agile. Back in the 1940s, Toyota optimized its engineering process by modeling it after how supermarkets stock shelves. Supermarkets stock just enough product to meet consumer demand, a practice that optimizes the flow between the supermarket and the consumer. A kanban team is only focused on the work that's actively in progress. Once the team completes a work item, they pluck the next work item off the top of the backlog.
Its a little like the concept of “doing” Agile but not being agile. The Kanban Method, as formulated by David J. Anderson, is an approach to incremental, evolutionary process and systems change for organizations. My layman’s way of describing Kanban is that it is. 1  a way to organize the chaos that surrounds so many delivery teams by making the need for prioritization and focus clear. 2  a way to uncover workflow and process problems so you may solve them in order to deliver more consistently to your client/customer/etc. Kanban accomplishes these things by introducing constraints into the system to optimize the flow of value. Flow is king. Just remember that you want to focus on the flow of VALUE ! If you have great flow but what’s being sent through isn’t valuable then your work has been for naught.
Kanban is a method for managing the creation of products with an emphasis on continual delivery while not overburdening the development team. Like scrum, Kanban is a process designed to help teams work together more effectively. 
For one, Kanban is NOT an Agile tool, framework or methodology—in fact it’s not even derived from software development practices. Instead, Kanban came out of lean manufacturing techniques made famous by Japanese automakers who used it to manage their workloads. 
For the lean manufacturing process, see Kanban. Kanban is a method for managing knowledge work with an emphasis on just-in-time delivery while not overloading the team members. In this approach, the process, from definition of a task to its delivery to the customer, is displayed for participants to see. The Kanban method does not prescribe a specific set of roles or process steps. The Kanban method starts with existing roles and processes and stimulates continuous, incremental and evolutionary changes to the system.
Kanban (かんばん) (literally signboard or billboard in Japanese) is a scheduling system for lean and just-in-time (JIT) production. Kanban is a system to control the logistical chain from a production point of view, and is an inventory control system. Kanban was developed by Taiichi Ohno, an industrial engineer at Toyota, as a system to improve and maintain a high level of production. An example of a simple kanban system implementation is a three-bin system for the supplied parts, where there is no in-house manufacturing. One bin is on the factory floor (the initial demand point), one bin is in the factory store (the inventory control point), and one bin is at the supplier.
In simplified terms, Kanban is a visual system for managing work moving through a process – the “value stream”. It is a system for visualizing work, reducing waste by limiting work in-progress, and maximizing customer value. 
Kanban is a new technique for managing a software development process in a highly efficient way. Kanban is incredibly simple, but at the same time incredibly powerful. In its simplest incarnation, a kanban system consists of a big board on the wall with cards or sticky notes placed in columns with numbers at the top. Limiting work-in-progress reveals the bottlenecks so you can address them.
Kanban underpins Toyota's just-in-time (JIT) production system. Kanban is incredibly simple, but at the same time incredibly powerful. In its simplest incarnation, a kanban system consists of a big board on the wall with cards or sticky notes placed in columns with numbers at the top. Limiting work-in-progress reveals the bottlenecks so you can address them.