Monthly maintenance is one of the anticipated costs of ownership for landlords and property managers. A rental property owner also should plan to set aside cash for emergency repairs, rental vacancies, and capital replacements of the roof and heating and cooling unit depending on the property's age. That means if a property is worth $150,000, the landlord should save a minimum of $3,000 for maintenance costs. Landlords should include anything that keeps the property in livable condition for occupants as a maintenance cost.
Homeowners should typically plan on spending between 1 and 3 percent of a home's purchase price on regular annual repairs and maintenance. On a $300,000 home, set aside at least $3,000 annually, or $250 from your monthly income, for ongoing home repair in addition to mortgage and property tax payments. Many purchasers also choose to make repairs when first buying a home. Estimating how much money to save each month depends on what repairs you'd like to complete after purchasing the home, required repairs you expected to perform in the near future, and the average annual maintenance and repair bills based on the home's age and upkeep.
Industry Standards. While there are no hard and fast rules on monthly maintenance costs for rental properties, Fannie Mae suggests a property owner allocate 2 percent of the property value annually. That means if a property is worth $150,000, the landlord should save a minimum of $3,000 for maintenance costs. Landlords should include anything that keeps the property in livable condition for occupants as a maintenance cost.
The average percentage of rental income to set aside each year for repairs is between 1 percent and 3 percent of the property value. The income that you set aside can be used to your advantage. It can be put into short-term money market accounts or other liquid securities. As an example, if you own a $100,000 property and you save $10,000 each year you could receive a return on this reserve money. You could get lucky and not have any repairs for a year or two. The substantial savings that you have earned can be used to invest into your busines
By answering these questions, you can arrive at a rough ballpark estimate of how much money you need to have available in your savings account. The more money in savings, the better, but don’t feel discouraged if you can’t put aside that much money right away. Some savings is better than no savings. 
The more you save for a home or a car, the less you need to borrow and the less interest you must pay – so save as much as possible. If you can live with your parents for less than market rent, or are a double-income couple who can live on one spouse’s income and save all the take-home income of the other spouse, do it. 
You also need to be sure you have budgeted for necessary repairs. Read on for some tips on how to plan ahead for the inevitable repair bills. How much to put aside. Prevailing wisdom recommends saving 1% to 3% of the value of your rental property for repairs each year. Though repair totals will vary from year to year, leftover funds from one year can help cover you for big expenditures during another one. Just be sure you set down a dollar amount to hit annually for savings. On a rental property worth $250,000, for example, try to reserve $2,500 to $7,500 for repairs each year. Hitting your annual repair-fund goals will also help you prepare for the unexpected, such as storm damage
Repairs vs. Maintenance. A thorough home inspection prior to purchase will give you a more accurate idea of potential repair costs. In addition to setting aside some money each month for ongoing home maintenance, homebuyers should budget carefully for more expensive projects. Estimating how much money to save each month depends on what repairs you'd like to complete after purchasing the home, required repairs you expected to perform in the near future, and the average annual maintenance and repair bills based on the home's age and upkeep.
Take 10 percent of your monthly mortgage payment, (just the principal and interest) and divert that into a high-yield savings account. For example, if your mortgage payment is $1,000, aim to put $100 a month into a special home maintenance and repair fund. 1 Granted, whoever built this house put in the cheapest possible stove imaginable, so the repair costs would have been as much as the thing was worth, so we opted to upgrade and splurge a bit since we cook virtually every meal at home. 2  There goes another $1,500.