Published on Sep 5, 2013. Just a Word template I made to print on note cards. The video explains on how to use it. A printer with a rear tray is needed. This is the only way I found to be able to print note cards. 
Create your first Word document I. Learn how to create your first document in Word: type where you want to on a page, fix spelling errors, make a list, change page margins, add emphasis to some words, quickly add some style, and save your work. 
If you make changes to a template that you download, you can save it on your computer and use it again. It's easy to find all your customized templates by clicking My templates in the New Document dialog box. To save a template in the My templates folder, do the following: Click the File tab. Click Save As. In the Save As dialog box, click Templates. In the Save as type list, select Word Template. Type a name for the template in the File name box, and then click Save. Top of Page
You can make notecards or nametags in Microsoft Word using the Envelopes and Labels function. To do so: 1  From the menu, or the tab, select. 2  In Word for Windows, click the tab, and then click. 3  In Word for Mac OS X, click. 4  From the menu next to Label products: or Label vendors, choose the brand of your labels. Note: If you wish to change margins or other settings, click. Enter a name for your custom label, and change the settings to your specifications. After you click, Word will show your label name in the Product number: field.
Step 1. Launch Word, click the “File” tab and select “New.” Click the “Cards” button, then double-click the “Note cards” file folder icon. Step 2. Scroll through the template offerings. Word’s templates may not exactly suit your business or the purpose of the note card, but each may be completely customized. Step 3. Click the picture on the cover of the card. Press the “Delete” key, then click the “Insert” tab. To add a custom picture, such as a gathering of all your employees for the cover of a holiday card, click the “Picture” button, navigate to the image and double-click it. This is also the way you would add your corporate logo, such as for the inside of the car
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehowtech. Making 3X5 note cards with Microsoft Word is easy-all you have to do is adjust the page layout of the document in a very specific way. Make 3X5 note cards with Microsoft Word with help from a self-taught web developer with skills in PHP, JQuery, Ajax, HTML and CSS in this free video clip. Expert: Christina Chiu. 
Drag the mouse to form the text box, then type inside of it. Step 5. Check the back of the card. Some templates have a personalization area near the bottom where you can type “This card was made by” and your company name, as well as your address, website, phone number and other contact information. Step 3. Click the picture on the cover of the card. Press the “Delete” key, then click the “Insert” tab. To add a custom picture, such as a gathering of all your employees for the cover of a holiday card, click the “Picture” button, navigate to the image and double-click it. This is also the way you would add your corporate logo, such as for the inside of the card
Instructions. Click the Mailings tab at the top of the screen and then select Labels.. Click Options from the Labels tab. This opens an options dialog box. Click the Label Vendors drop-down menu and select the vendor for the note card on which you want to print. You can skip this step if you don't know the vendor. Locate the Product Number field in the dialog box. It can be found near the bottom of the box. Scroll and click number 5315 for note cards.