Iron-deficiency anemia can put children at greater risk for lead poisoning and infections. Some signs and symptoms of iron-deficiency anemia are related to the condition's causes. For example, a sign of intestinal bleeding is bright red blood in the stools or black, tarry-looking stools. Signs and symptoms of iron deficiency may include brittle nails, swelling or soreness of the tongue, cracks in the sides of the mouth, an enlarged spleen, and frequent infections. People who have iron-deficiency anemia may have an unusual craving for nonfood items, such as ice, dirt, paint, or starch.
Most of the body’s iron is found in two proteins: hemoglobin in the red blood cells and myoglobin in the muscle cells. In both, iron helps accept, carry and then release oxygen. Iron also is found in many enzymes that oxidize compound reactions so widespread in metabolism that they occur in all cells. In the United States, an estimated 10 percent of the population is in positive iron balance, with 1 percent having iron overload. Iron overload is more common in men than women and is twice as prevalent in men as iron deficiency. Some researchers have expressed concern about the widespread iron fortification of foods.
Iron toxicity occurs when the body has too much iron. The most common cause of iron toxicity is accidental overdose of iron pills. 
The most common symptom of all types of anemia is fatigue (tiredness). Fatigue occurs because your body doesn't have enough red blood cells to carry oxygen to its many parts. Also, the red blood cells your body makes have less hemoglobin than normal. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein in red blood cells. It helps red blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. Anemia also can cause shortness of breath, dizziness, headache, coldness in your hands and feet, pale skin, chest pain, weakness, and fatigue (tiredness). Signs and symptoms of iron deficiency may include brittle nails, swelling or soreness of the tongue, cracks in the sides of the mouth, an enlarged spleen, and frequent infections. People who have iron-deficiency anemia may have an unusual craving for nonfood items, such as ice, dirt, paint, or starch.
Iron – roles in the body: Iron is an essential nutrient that is vital to the processes by which cells generate energy. Iron also can be damaging when it accumulates in the body. In fact, iron is a problem nutrient for millions of people. In the United States, an estimated 10 percent of the population is in positive iron balance, with 1 percent having iron overload. Iron overload is more common in men than women and is twice as prevalent in men as iron deficiency. Some researchers have expressed concern about the widespread iron fortification of foods.
Let us say a few words about iron deficiency, a much more well-known problem. This is a severe problem in certain parts of the world, especially Africa where malaria and other parasitic diseases cause blood destruction and other problems. 
Iron-Deficiency Anemia. Iron-deficiency anemia is a common, easily treated condition that occurs if you don't have enough iron in your body. Low iron levels usually are due to blood loss, poor diet, or an inability to absorb enough iron from food. Overview. Iron-deficiency anemia is a common type of anemia. The term anemia usually refers to a condition in which your blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells