20 Words related to pilcher. 1  rubber pants. 2  pilchers. 3  nappies. 4  plastic pants. 5  vinyl pants. 6  waterproof pants. 7  cloth diapers. 8  diaper pail. 9  baby pants. 10  diaper pants. 11  diaper pins. 12  diapers. 13  nappy pants. 14  towelling squares. 15  safety pins. 16  disposable diapers. 17  nappy pins. 18  double diapering. 19  soakers. 20  training pants. 
Definition of PILCHER. archaic variant of pilchard. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. 
You can find out where the majority of the Pilcher families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Pilcher birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Born Rosamunde E. M. L. Scott on 22 September 1924 in Lelant, Cornwall, daughter of Helen and Charles Scott, a British commander. Just before her birth her father was posted in Burma, her mother remained in England. At the beginning writing was a refuge from her daily life. She claims that writing saved her marriage. The real breakthrough in Pilcher's career came in 1987, when she wrote the family saga, The Shell Seekers. Since then her books have made her one of the more successful contemporary female authors.
From what you have written it sounds like your hospital used the old terry square nappies. A snib or a pilcher are different versions of covers to go over the cloth nappies. From memory a snib is like a plastic cover that goes over the top and knots at the front to keep it on and pilchers are like a pull up cover. You can buy the snibs (think a pack of 10) at the chemist and pilchers can be purchased in a variety of places depending on the type (fabric) you want. Our hospital told us to supply them too but when we got there they actually supplied us with snibs so we used those. GL with it all. Dee
Sardines, or pilchards, are common names used to refer to various small, oily fish within the herring family of Clupeidae. The term sardine was first used in English during the early 15th century and may come from the Mediterranean island of Sardinia, around which sardines were once abundant. The terms sardine and pilchard are not precise, and what is meant depends on the region. The United Kingdom's Sea Fish Industry Authority, for example, classifies sardines as young pilchards. One criterion suggests fish shorter in length than 15 cm (6 in) are sardines, and larger ones pilchards
Rosamunde Pilcher, OBE (nee Née; scott born 22 september) 1924 is A british writer of several-short stories and 28 romance novels and mainstream'women s fiction from 1949 to, 2000 when she retired from. Writing early in her career she was also published under the pen Name Jane. fraser At the beginning writing was a refuge from her daily life. She claims that writing saved her marriage. The real breakthrough in Pilcher's career came in 1987, when she wrote the family saga, The Shell Seekers. Since then her books have made her one of the more successful contemporary female authors.
You can find out when most of the Pilcher families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Pilcher birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Rosamunde Pilcher, OBE (nee Née; scott born 22 september) 1924 is A british writer of several-short stories and 28 romance novels and mainstream'women s fiction from 1949 to, 2000 when she retired from. writing At the beginning writing was a refuge from her daily life. She claims that writing saved her marriage. The real breakthrough in Pilcher's career came in 1987, when she wrote the family saga, The Shell Seekers. Since then her books have made her one of the more successful contemporary female authors.
1 (archaic) a scabbard for a sword, or a similar outer covering. ( 2 pejorative, archaic) an insignificant or worthless person. ( 3 papermaking) a thick covering layer of felts that is used to absorb water when paper is in the press during the production process. 