There is no age limit on claiming your child as a dependent if the child meets the qualifying relative test. As long as all of the following tests are met, you may claim a dependency exemption for your child: 1  Qualifying child or qualifying relative test, 2  Dependent taxpayer test, 3  Citizen or resident test, and. 4  Joint return test.
You can reduce you total taxes owed by claiming a child as a dependent on your income tax return. But not all children qualify and age is a factor. In some cases, you can claim a child under the age of 19. In other instances, you can claim a child under the age of 24. And in still other scenarios, a child might not qualify at all – regardless of their age. Read on for more details about under what circumstance you can claim a child as a dependent on your income taxes. IRS Guidelines on Age Limits for Dependents. As mentioned above, age is a factor in determining whether your child is a qualifying child for your tax return. If your child is a student or is disabled, then you can claim him or her as a dependent as long as your child is under age 24. Otherwise, the child must be under 19 years old. However, there are other tests that allow you to claim a dependency exemption for your child
Background. A tax deduction reduces the income subject to tax. A tax credit is a dollar-for-dollar reduction of the tax. The tax credit for child and dependent care expenses allows taxpayers to claim a credit for expenses paid for the care of children under age 13 and for a disabled spouse or dependent.
Qualifying Child. A dependent must be either a qualifying child or qualifying relative.. Only qualifying children have an age test. A qualifying child must be under 19 at the end of the year. If your child is a full-time student, you can claim an exemption until she's 24 years old. If she becomes permanently and totally disabled, you can potentially claim her as a dependent at any age
The ability to claim a child as a dependent may result in a reduction of your income taxes. Age is one test the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) uses to determine eligibility, but there are four additional conditions the child must meet before you are allowed to claim him as your dependent. Under 19 Years of Age. If your child meets the other tests, he must not be older than you or, if married and filing a joint return, your spouse. He does not have to be a student to qualify as long as he is under the age of 19 as of Dec. 31 of the year for which you are filing taxes.
A child younger than 24 years of age as of Dec. 31 of the tax year in question may still qualify as a dependent if she is a full-time student. She may attend high school, a college or university or a technical school as long as she attends for at least the minimum hours the school considers full-time. Under 19 Years of Age. If your child meets the other tests, he must not be older than you or, if married and filing a joint return, your spouse. He does not have to be a student to qualify as long as he is under the age of 19 as of Dec. 31 of the year for which you are filing taxes.
To claim the Child Tax Credit, you must determine if your child is eligible. There are seven qualifying tests to consider: age, relationship, support, dependent status, citizenship, length of residency and family income. You and/or your child must pass all seven to claim this tax credit. 
Tax Credits. Claiming your college-age child as your dependent might result in a tax credit as well, which reduces your tax bill to the IRS. As of the 2012 tax year, the IRS offers three tax credits for tuition, although one of them is set to expire after 2012 unless legislation passes to renew it. 
A taxpayer cannot claim a dependency exemption for a person who can be claimed as a dependent on another tax return. The term dependent means a qualifying child or a qualifying relative.. A. To claim a dependency exemption for a qualifying child, all of the qualifying child dependency tests must be met: A dependent is a person other than the taxpayer or spouse who entitles the taxpayer to claim a dependency exemption. Each dependency exemption decreases income subject to tax by the exemption amount. 1  For 2014, the exemption amount is $3,950.