Personal, carers' and compassionate leave. For every year of service, full-time and part-time employees are entitled to at least: 1  10 days of paid personal (sick)/carers' leave. 2  2 days of unpaid carers' leave (if needed). 3  2 days of paid compassionate leave (if needed). Casual employees are only entitled to 2 days of unpaid carers' leave (if needed) and 2 days of unpaid compassionate leave (if needed). On public holidays, employees who would usually work on that day are entitled to a day off with pay (subject to reasonable requests to work). View a list of Queensland public holidays
Holidays: 17 paid holidays. Vacation: Employees shall be granted 12 vacation days on a prorated basis for less than 2 years of service. Retirement: Employees Provident Fund (EPF) in excess of the statutory EPF contribution is 2% for 1 to 3 years of service and 3.5% for more than 3 years of service. • Paternity Leave: Male employees are eligible to 2 working days leave for the birth of their own child up to 5 surviving child. • Marriage Leave: 5 days leave for first legal marriage per employment. • Compassionate Leave: 3 consecutive working days on the death of their immediate family member.
An employer is not required to pay time-and-a-half for working on a holiday. Overtime or premium pay is not required for working on holidays or weekends unless those hours are in excess of 40 for the work week. Holiday pay is a benefit that may be paid at the employers' discretion.
Across all employers surveyed by XpertHR who were able to provide data on compassionate leave levels for 2013, the median amount of compassionate leave taken per 100 employees stood at 15.4 days. This figure rose to 22.3 days at the average. How to devise and implement a policy on compassionate leave. “The main difficulty with compassionate leave is balancing individual need with consistency,” according to one survey respondent in the services sector.
If an employee has completed 4 months of service and is entitled to 10 days of leave a year, the pro-rated annual leave is: (4 completed months / 12 months) x 10 days of leave = 3.33 days. Rounded down to 3 days as the fraction is less than 0.5. Any leave you take will be considered a full-day's leave, even if it is taken on a half working day. However, your employer can choose to treat it as a half-day's leave. Check with your employer on whether it is the company's policy to grant a full day or half day of leave.
No, compassionate leave is non-mandatory in Singapore and it is not stated in Employment Act of Ministry of Manpower (MOM). 
By Michael Carty on 6 May 2014 in Compassionate leave. With no statutory right, compassionate leave is often seen as a grey area. Adopting a formal compassionate leave policy brings clear benefits both to employees going through difficult times and their employers, according to new research. How to devise and implement a policy on compassionate leave. “The main difficulty with compassionate leave is balancing individual need with consistency,” according to one survey respondent in the services sector.
The Compassionate Leave Program is a donated-leave bank benefit for qualifying Administrative (members of URA-AFT); Managerial, Professional, Supervisory, and Confidential (MPSC); and employees who are members of AFSCME Local #888 who are experiencing medical hardship, either personally or in their immediate families. 
Two-fifths offer a combination of paid and unpaid compassionate leave where required. Fewer than one employer in 25 says that compassionate leave is entirely unpaid. UK employers believe compassionate leave is highly valued by employees, and consequently reflects well on the organisation. How to devise and implement a policy on compassionate leave. “The main difficulty with compassionate leave is balancing individual need with consistency,” according to one survey respondent in the services sector.