1 The damaged myelin forms scar tissue (sclerosis), which gives the disease its name. 2  When any part of the myelin sheath or nerve fiber is damaged or destroyed, nerve impulses traveling to and from the brain and spinal cord are distorted or interrupted, producing a wide variety of symptoms. Myelin – the protective coating around nerve fibers in the central nervous system – is a primary target of the immune attack in MS.
Depending on the location, different glial cell types make myelin in a different manner. Schwann cells make myelin in the peripheral nervous system (PNS: nerves) and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS: brain and spinal cord). In the PNS, one Schwann cell forms a single myelin sheath (Figure 1A). The ratio between axon diameter and that of the total nerve fiber (axon and myelin) is 0.6–0.7, a ratio that is well maintained regardless of the axon caliber. The length of the myelin sheath along the axon is approximately 1 mm in the PNS.
Myelin is a fatty white substance that surrounds the axon dielectric (electrically insulating) material that forms a layer, the myelin sheath, usually around only the axon of a neuron. It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. It is an outgrowth of a type of glial cell. The production of the myelin sheath is called myelination. In humans, myelination begins in the 14th week of fetal development, although little myelin exists in the brain at the time of birth. Myelin is considered a defining characteristic of the (gnathostome) vertebrates, but myelin-like sheaths have also been seen in some invertebrates, although they are quite different from vertebrate myelin at the molecular level. Myelin was discovered in 1854 by Rudolf Virchow.
myelin sheath. n. The insulating envelope of myelin that surrounds the core of a nerve fiber or axon and that facilitates the transmission of nerve impulses, formed from the cell membrane of the Schwann cell in the peripheral nervous system and from oligodendroglia cells. Also called medullary sheath.
1 : : Forms part of the Myelin sheath (protective covering) around a PNS neuron. 2  That is, Schwann cells wrap around the axon of the neurone, forming areas in which myelin forms-resulting in the formation of a myelin sheath around the axon-between the axon and the Schwann cell(s). Oligodendrocyte cells are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : Oligodendrocytes differ from astrocytes (listed higher-up this page) by having fewer and thinner processes and no gap junctions. : 1  Forms supporting network around CNS neurons.
Myelin sheath. made up by oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system and schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system; provides protection and insulation for the axon, and also increases teh speed of conductivity of the nervous impulse; myelinated axons are also calle dmyelinated fibers. 
Schwann cells, in the peripheral nervous system, and oligodendrocytes, in the central nervous system, wrap around the axons of neurons to form myelin sheaths. Myelin sheaths are electrical insulators and prevent current from leaving axons. Nerve Fibers. The nerve fiber consists of a neuron's axon and its myelin sheath, if present. Nerve fibers are found in the peripheral nervous system and central nervous system. In the peripheral nervous system, Schwann cells form the sheath around axons, and each Schwann cell forms the sheath for just one neuron.
medullary sheath myelin sheath. myelin sheath (nerve sheath) the sheath surrounding the axon of myelinated nerve cells, consisting of concentric layers of myelin formed in the peripheral nervous system by the plasma membrane of Schwann cells, and in the central nervous system by the plasma membrane of oligodendrocytes. n. The insulating envelope of myelin that surrounds the core of a nerve fiber or axon and that facilitates the transmission of nerve impulses, formed from the cell membrane of the Schwann cell in the peripheral nervous system and from oligodendroglia cells. Also called medullary sheath.