The surname is first recorded in Yorkshire in the early 13th Century (see below), over three hundred years before it is found in Scotland. David Burnis is listed as being a follower of the earl of Cassilis in 1526. In the modern idiom the surname can be found as Burness, Burnes and Burns. On June 5th 1608, Bessie Burnes married Charles Bryson in Edinburgh, Midlothian, and on September 28th 1760, Gilbert, son of William and Agnes Burness was christened at Alloway, Ayr. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Robert Brenhus, which was dated 1208, in the Pipe Rolls of Yorkshire, during the reign of King John, known as Lackland, 1199 - 1216.
The name Burns is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Burns Name Meaning. The meaning of Burns is “Stream(s); stream + house”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Burns Early Origins. First found in Cumberland, where the original name was Burness. Even Robert Burns and his brother both agreed to shorten their name to Burns due to the difficulty in pronunciation by the Gaelic tongue. Later, the name was also spelled Bourne, Burn and even Bernes. Contents. 1  1 Burns history with Burns Family Crest. 2  2 Burns Early Origins. 3  3 The Great Migration. 4  4 Suggested Readings for Burns. 5  5 Surname Notables. 6  6 Clan Badge of Burns. 7  7 Septs of Burns. 8  8 Burns Products. 9  9 See Also. 10  10 References.
This ancient name is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is one of the earliest topographical surnames existing today. The derivation is from the Old English pre 7th Century burna, burne, spring, stream, which was originally used as a topographic name for someone who lived beside a stream. In the North, however, the word burn is still used for a stream. Some instances of the modern surname, found as Bown(e), Burn(e), Burns, Born(e), Boorne, Burner and Bo(u)rner, may be locational in origin, from a place named from being
Burns /burns/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced bern. It is of Middle English origin, and the meaning of Burns is  brook . Originally a surname for families living close to a stream. Kreatif forms: Beburns, Burnsbe, Burnsbu. 
The surname Burns has several origins. In some cases it derived from the Middle English burn, and originated as a topographic name for an individual who lived by a stream. In other cases the surname is a variant form of the surname Burnhouse, which originated as habitational name, derived from a place name made up of the word elements burn and house. In other cases the surname Burns originated as a nickname meaning burn house. In other cases, the surname Burns is an Anglicised form of the Gaelic O ó, broin which means descendant Of . bran In other cases, the surname Burns is an Anglicised form of the Gaelic O ó, broin which means descendant Of . Bran in some cases the Surname burns is An americanized form of The jewish Surname, bernstein which is derived from The german ( bernstein ). amber
Burn Early Origins. First found in Cumberland, where the original name was Burness. Even Robert Burns and his brother both agreed to shorten their name to Burns due to the difficulty in pronunciation by the Gaelic tongue. Later, the name was also spelled Bourne, Burn and even Bernes.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Burns and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Burns and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Burns Name Meaning. The meaning of Burns is “Stream(s); stream + house”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
This interesting surname is of early medieval English origin, and is a locational name from Burnhouse in Scotland. The placename derives from the Middle English burn, stream, and house, house. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Robert Brenhus, which was dated 1208, in the Pipe Rolls of Yorkshire, during the reign of King John, known as Lackland, 1199 - 1216.