Food Handler Card Frequently Asked Questions Senate Bill 602 and Senate Bill 303 What is a Food Handler Card? Most California food facility employees are now required to obtain a Food Handler Card, which certifies they have successfully completed a food safety class and test. Food handlers must obtain a Food Handler Card within 30 days of being hired. Note: Senate Bill 303 extends the deadline for food handlers hired before June 1, 2011 to obtain a card by January 1, 2012.
The healthcare Units of Competency for both Food Handlers and Food Safety Supervisors were only introduced at the end of 2004. Thus, if you completed accredited food safety training before that date, it would be a good idea to enrol in a current course to ensure your skills and knowledge are up to date. 
The total cost of a Food Handler Safety Training card is $40; $20 for the card and $20 for the training. An additional $15 is charged to renew an expired card. The balance of Food Handler Safety Training card fee is paid at the health district during the application process. Visit the Fees webpage for details. 1 give you a copy of your application form. 2  Take the application form to the cashier and pay for your Food Handler Safety Training card. ( 3 see Fees). 4  Go to the information desk to have your Food Handler Safety Training card printed.
Upon successful completion of the course and the exam, you will earn your food handler certificate of completion. Food Handler Training is often intended for entry-level professionals in the food service industry, such as servers, chefs, cooks, cashiers, and even c-store clerks. This course and included exam. require you to travel to the county office and pay an additional fee to register your Food Handler certificate. For courses not accredited by ANSI, cities and counties can still charge fees ranging from $5 – $15 after taking the online course.
Q: I am unable to complete my purchase of the food handler course. Why not? A: In most cases, it is because the billing information for your credit/bank card does not match the address in your profile or there are insufficient funds in your account. Q: How many questions are on the test and what grade do I need to pass it? A: There are 35 questions on the national test and 40 on our California test. The national passing score is 74.7% and California’s passing score is 70%.
The cost of the Texas Food Handler Card Certificate course is $6.95 per person, and it includes the training, the exam, and the Food Handlers Training Certificate upon successfully passing the exam with a 80% or better. If you don’t have access to a computer with a printer, you can still take the training online and, once you have passed the test, we can mail a printed copy of your Food Handler Training Certificate for an additional fee of $5.
Your Texas Online Food Handler Program certification is valid for 2 years from the date of course completion. You need to complete the course every 2 years to maintain your certification. A food handler is a food service employee who works with unpackaged food, food equipment or utensils, or food contact surfaces. The Department of State Health Services does not require that food handler training be provided by an accredited food handler program
Q: I am an employer and would like to purchase food handler courses for my employees. How do I make a group purchase? A: For information on making a group food handlers certificate purchase for your employees, please use the links below. Q: How many questions are on the test and what grade do I need to pass it? A: There are 35 questions on the national test and 40 on our California test. The national passing score is 74.7% and California’s passing score is 70%.
The ANSI food handler training certificates are good for three years and those taking other types of trainings that work in restaurants and other non-restaurant facilities, such as nursing homes, licensed day care homes and facilities, hospitals, schools and long-term care facilities, are good for three years. 