One market analyst predicts that BP could face anywhere from $5 billion to $15 billion in the end for cleanup, damage claims and lawsuits. BP will also suffer long term damage to their reputation, as they have been considered the oil company with the most environmentally friendly image. Despite other issues in the past that BP has been responsible for, none have had the magnitude or received as much attention as the Gulf spill. In addition, as tragically seen from the Exxon Valdez disaster, local people can suffer long term personal damage from the devastation of their communities, with the escalated stress on families leading to increases in alcoholism, suicide, violence, and divorce.
By Larry West. Oil spills often result in both immediate and long-term environmental damage. Some of the environmental damage caused by an oil spill can last for decades after the spill occurs. Here are some of the most notable environmental damages typically caused by oil spills: Oil Spills Damage Beaches, Marshlands and Fragile Marine Ecosystems. Oil spilled by damaged tankers, pipelines or offshore oil rigs coats everything it touches and becomes an unwelcome but long-term part of every ecosystem it enters. The long-term damage to various species, and to the habitat and nesting or breeding grounds those species depend upon for their survival, is one of the most far-reaching environmental effects caused by oil spills.
The oil spill in the Gulf Of Mexico, resulting from the explosion at a BP offshore drilling rig that tragically left 11 dead, is quickly growing to become the biggest ecological disaster this country has ever experienced. Here are 7 long-term consequences we must expect from this catastrophe. Close. In addition, as tragically seen from the Exxon Valdez disaster, local people can suffer long term personal damage from the devastation of their communities, with the escalated stress on families leading to increases in alcoholism, suicide, violence, and divorce.
Although Dr Kingston recommends that the polluted areas are cleaned quickly, he argues that animals are used to adapting to new conditions. The long-term effect of an oil spill is the subject of much debate among scientists. Some argue that animals and birds are harmed many years after the event, but others believe wildlife is more resilient. Oil spills, such as that of Brittany in 1999, can kill huge numbers of birds and animals. BBC News Online's Kate Milner examines oil spills to see how much damage they cause and whether and how well wildlife recovers.
The effects of oil spills can have wide ranging impacts that are often portrayed by the media as long lasting environmental disasters. It is true that an oil spill can have severe short term effects, especially when organisms are considered on an individual basis. However, environmental impacts should always be measured in a scientific context and should be appraised at an ecosystem rather than individual level.
Marine Biologist Rick Steiner describes the potential long-term effects on marine life and ecosystems from the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
21 years after the Exxon Valdez disaster it is estimated that 21,000 gallons of oil still remain just below the surface of Alaska's Prince William Sound, and the long term environmental effects on the area have far exceeded scientists' original predictions. In addition, as tragically seen from the Exxon Valdez disaster, local people can suffer long term personal damage from the devastation of their communities, with the escalated stress on families leading to increases in alcoholism, suicide, violence, and divorce.
The GuLF STUDY (Gulf Long-term Follow-up Study) is a health study for individuals who helped with the oil spill cleanup, took training, signed up to work, or were sent to the Gulf to help in some way after the Deepwater Horizon disaster. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is sponsoring this study. 