Primary Muscles. The main muscles used in a spinning class are the quadriceps. These are the large muscles on the front of your thighs. When the class begins an incline, the quadriceps is the muscle that will power you through the segment. It pushes down on the pedal and straightens your leg. Supporting Muscles. The gluteus maximus and medius, the muscles in the backside, push forward on the pedal at the top of the stroke in a spinning class. Strengthening these muscles can help you improve your muscular endurance. Try some of the same exercises that strengthen the quadriceps, such as lunges and squats.
An exercise bike can provide a great workout. The larger muscles of the legs are the primary movers in an exercise bike workout and include the quadriceps (thighs), the hamstrings (back of the legs), and the glutes (butt muscles.) In addition, the hip flexors and the calves are active when cycling. In addition an exercise bike requires work from your hip flexors (muscles on front of your hips), gluteals, and your abdominals to help stabilize your pelvis and spine. However, the most important muscle an exercise bike works is your heart.
Spinning boosts cardiovascular endurance while toning the legs and core. Indoor cycling, or spinning, is a just like riding a bike out on the streets, only you get to do it in the gym or the comfort of your own home. Quadriceps. The quadriceps, the primary front muscle on your thighs, are the main muscles used during spinning. Each time you push the pedal down with your foot, your quadriceps muscle is engaged.
An exercise bike primarily works your leg muscles including your quadriceps, hamstrings, and calves. In addition an exercise bike requires work from your hip flexors (muscles on front of your hips), gluteals, and your abdominals to help stabilize your pelvis and spine. However, the most important muscle an exercise bike works is your heart.
A spinning class is an exercise class in which a group of people ride stationary bicycles. Spinning can give you a great cardiovascular workout, but also strengthen your heart and several muscle groups in your legs, backside and core. Supporting Muscles. The gluteus maximus and medius, the muscles in the backside, push forward on the pedal at the top of the stroke in a spinning class. Strengthening these muscles can help you improve your muscular endurance. Try some of the same exercises that strengthen the quadriceps, such as lunges and squats.
There are numerous benefits to a spinning workout. A spinning workout of 45 minutes may allow you to burn around 500 calories, which is a huge amount when compared to other types of workout. However, the amount of calories you burn will depend on the intensity of the workout. Adjust your bike according to the intensity you desire. The spinning workout may help you build some muscle tone. The workout will focus on the core muscles, as well as the buttocks and thighs. You can increase and decrease the tension of the bike; this is similar to riding up and down a hill. While you pedal, you will work your thighs and calves
A spinning workout is an excellent way to burn some calories and relieve stress. The workout employs a stationary bike, which has various tension levels. The bike will also track your progress, so that you are motivated to continue and accomplish your fitness goals. However, the amount of calories you burn will depend on the intensity of the workout. Adjust your bike according to the intensity you desire. The spinning workout may help you build some muscle tone. The workout will focus on the core muscles, as well as the buttocks and thighs.
Cycling provides a great workout for the hamstrings, on the back of the thighs, and the quadriceps, on the top, front of the legs. Together, the muscles work in conjunction to power pedaling. When you cycle uphill, the quads bear the brunt of the work. 
Legs. During an indoor cycling workout, you definitely feel the burn in the upper and lower regions of your legs. In the upper leg, you are working your quadriceps and your hamstrings. Your quadriceps -- the large muscles at the front of the thighs that run from the pelvis to the knee -- are worked when you pedal. 
Spinning, also known as group or indoor cycling, is a great way to lose weight and stay fit. Offering all the benefits of riding a bike outdoors but without the dangers of traffic and crashes, spinning workouts are often led by an instructor who steers you through your workout. Located on the back of your hip, your gluteus maximus, glutes for short, works with your hamstrings to extend your hip. This occurs as you drive the pedals downward. Your hip flexors, called the iliopsoas muscles, are located on the front of your hip and generate force to pull your leg back up.