Salah(Daily Ritual Prayer). Salah is something amazing in Islam and it is the way Muslims 'converse' with Allah. Muslims make 'Salah' (some people incorrectly call this 'prayer') every day, five times a day. Salah is obligatory worship and must be performed five times a day at prescribed times. These five times are dawn (Fajr), immediately after noon (Dhuhr), mid-afternoon ('Asr), sunset (Maghrib), and early night (Isha').
Noun. 1. salah-the second pillar of Islam is prayer; a prescribed liturgy performed five times a day (preferably in a mosque) and oriented toward Mecca. salaah, salaat, salat. worship-the activity of worshipping. 
• SALAH (noun). The noun SALAH has 1 sense: 1. the second pillar of Islam is prayer; a prescribed liturgy performed five times a day (preferably in a mosque) and oriented toward Mecca. Familiarity information: SALAH used as a noun is very rare. 
Salah is the Arabic word for (Prayer, bowing, homage, worship, connection). Every Muslim is expected to pray five times a day, always facing Mecca, and by prostrating herself or himself in utter humility. There are 5 Prayers/Salah throughout the day: 1. Fajr (pre-dawn). 2. Dhuhr (afternoon). 3.
Salah is the second most important act of worship in Islam, after the shahadah (declaration of faith) and is often referred to as the second pillar of Islam. Salah is obligatory worship and must be performed five times a day at prescribed times. These five times are dawn (Fajr), immediately after noon (Dhuhr), mid-afternoon ('Asr), sunset (Maghrib), and early night (Isha').
Salah in Islam is a special prayer which is informed to the Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) through revelation and its boundaries and form are determined. Any change in its form nullifies it. Salah is a discipline which is set as a binding duty for all Muslims as it is formal. Islam targeted to discipline its members and saved the endless conscious of the existence of Allah by setting it as a binding duty for Muslims.
Salah is ordained on Muslims five times a day and is essentially the spiritual nourishment of the soul of the believer as well as the divine connection between Allah and the believer. There are 5 prayers throughout the day: Fajr (pre-dawn), Dhuhr (afternoon), Asr (post-afternoon), Maghrib (evening), Isha (night). 
Salah (or salat) is one of the Five Pillars of Islam. While the Arabic term salah is often translated simply as “prayer,” it usually refers to Islam’s mandatory forms of ritual worship, consisting of prescribed recitations (in Arabic) along with specified bodily positions (standing, bowing, prostrating, and sitting).
Salat is the obligatory Muslim prayers, performed five times each day by Muslims. It is the second Pillar of Islam. God ordered Muslims to pray at five set times of day: 1  Salat al-fajr: dawn, before sunrise. 2  Salat al-zuhr: midday, after the sun passes its highest. 3  Salat al-'asr: the late part of the afternoon. 
Salah is the name for the obligatory prayers which are performed five times a day, and are a direct link between the worshipper and God with no earthly intermediaries. A prayer takes a few minutes to perform. Congregational prayer and Mosques. Although salah can be performed alone, it is meritorious to perform it with another or with a group. The word mosque comes from the Arabic masjid, meaning place of prostration.. Although it is permissible to pray at home, at work, or even outdoors, it is recommended that Muslims perform salah in a mosque.