Even though their cells are in similar shape, the arrangements of the cells between the two genera have prominent differences. This is due to the axial difference of binary fusion. Streptococcus and Staphylococcus are clinically important to humans as they cause diseases in humans. Both genera include facultative anaerobes and belong to Phylum Firmicutes. Streptococcus. Source: GrahamColm, en.wikipedia, 2010. Streptococcus is a bacterial genus, belonging to the Phylum Firmicutes. Staphylococcus vs Streptococcus. Streptococcus and Staphylococcus are two bacterial genera, which are gram-positive and have the same spherical shaped cells called cocci.
Group A Streptococcus (GAS) or strep is a common bacterium (bacterium is the singular form of the plural, bacteria) that is found on the skin or in the throat (strep throat). People can carry GAS and have no symptoms of illness or they may develop relatively mild skin infections, including impetigo. 
Staphylococcus (bottom). There are a lot of similarities between Streptococcus (Strep) and Staphylococcus (Staph) that lead to confusion. Both are: 1  spherical, facultatively anaerobic gram-positive bacteria. 2  common members of the normal human microbiota. 3  capable of resisting many forms of important antibiotics. Many species of Streptococcus are common and do not cause any human disease. This bacterium is commonly found in the throat but doesn’t always show any symptoms that indicate a disease. Some species under certain conditions, can cause infections.
Again, there are several types of strep bacteria and each causes something different. They are a nonmotile gram-positive cocci that resemble chains. They can cause dermatitis, endocarditis, erysipelas, impetigo, menigitis, pneumonia, scarlet fever, tonsilitis, strep throat and UTI. Staph and strep are everywhere. Report Abuse. Strep and Staph are two different kinds of bacteria, as has been stated all ready. However, Staph does not just affect the skin. It can also affect any area of the body. When I was a young child, my father was stricken with a very infectious staph infection that attacked his disgestive system.
The type of infections you can get from Streptococcus pyogenes are rheumatic fever (inflammatory disease that effects the heart, joints, skin and brain), impetigo (skin infection), scarlet fever, puerperal fever, streptococcal toxic shock syndrome, strep throat, tonsillitis, and other upper respiratory infections. Many species of Streptococcus are common and do not cause any human disease. This bacterium is commonly found in the throat but doesn’t always show any symptoms that indicate a disease. Some species under certain conditions, can cause
There are several types of staph bacteria and each causes a different disease/infection. They resemble a bunch of grapes and are anaerobic gram-positive cocci. They cause skin infections as well as endocarditis, meningitis, osteomyelitis, gastroenteritis and pneumonia Streptococcus is another genus of bacteria. Report Abuse. Strep and Staph are two different kinds of bacteria, as has been stated all ready. However, Staph does not just affect the skin. It can also affect any area of the body. When I was a young child, my father was stricken with a very infectious staph infection that attacked his disgestive system.
Staph Bacteremia. Staph bacteremia is a type of bacteremia which may occur. A staph infection is an infection which may be a result of infection in the organs or poisoning of the blood aka sepsis. This causes the internal organs or the skin to become inflamed which is caused by bacteria in the blood. Staph bacteremia may be severe or it may be very mild.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The main difference is that staph infections and strep throat are cause by two different strains of bacteria. Staph infections are caused by Staphylococcus bacteria, and strep is caused by Streptococcus bacteria. Staph infection is and infection caused by Staphylococcus aureus bacteria. You can get a staph infection usually from skin to skin contact. It is super common and finds its wa … y in the body thru an open cut/break in your skin, mouth, nose, lungs etc.