The act of running away and fleeing from something triggers a fight or flight response. This is your bodies natural defense mechanism to avoid physical threats that might harm you. If you have a dream where you are being chased by someone or something, take a few moments to analyze what it could mean. Generally, your subconscious is trying to give your conscious mind insight into something that you might be running from in your waking state.
Sabotage. To dream that you have been sabotaged indicates that there is something that you are ignoring or overlooking in your waking life. To dream that you are sabotaging something or someone indicates that an overwhelming anxiety is threatening the boundary between your subconscious and your ego. The dream is telling you that you have power to control the direction and path of your own life. Scroll To see a scroll in your dream represents your hidden knowledge or ultimate potential. Scrubs To wear scrubs in your dream refers to your caring, supportive and giving nature.
Scythe. To see or use a scythe in your dream suggests that you need to cut out some of the excess and needless things in your life. Perhaps you need to cut back on spending, smoking, eating, gambling or some other habit. Alternatively, the scythe is symbolic of death or the end of something. The dream is telling you that you have power to control the direction and path of your own life. Scroll To see a scroll in your dream represents your hidden knowledge or ultimate potential. Scrubs To wear scrubs in your dream refers to your caring, supportive and giving nature.
http://www.chacha.com/question/what-does-it-mean-when-you-dream-about-people-taking-away-things-from-you. To dream that you are a witness to a theft or a victim of theft, indicates that others are wasting your time and stealing energy. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-does-it-mean-when-you-dream-about-people-taking-away-things-from-you ]. Dogs often represent loyalty, love, obedience, friendship, etc.Something is going on in your life where you feel (or others influence you to feel) that you have something you don't deserve. They'd like to have what you have, even if it means taking yours away from you.
One might exhibit certain anxiousness after something is taken away from him. Dreaming about it can only mean that we are scared for something important to us to be taken out. Dreams concerning taking away…. 1  You have been taken away. 2  Something significant to you is taken away. 3  Taking away things that you no longer need. 4  Someone important to you is taken away. Quick explanation of dreams…. 1  It means that someone in your life wants you to do things that you want to do. 2  You are feeling a certain level of anxiousness. 3  You want to sort your life. 4  You are worried that someone you love will bid you farewell.
Dreams about dogs are a common dream theme at bedtime. If you or a loved one have been covering this ground at night, you may have questions about what it all might mean. As part of a Huffington Post series on dreams and their meanings, we spoke to Vocata George, Ph.D., a Jungian analyst at the C.G. Jungian dream analysis shines the spotlight on yourself, says George. When you dream about dogs, it is important to first consider what it is that made you think about dogs.. George says dreams about dogs in general can help you sniff out a part of your psyche..
Death To dream about the death of a loved one suggests that you are lacking a certain aspect or quality that the loved one embodies. Ask yourself what makes this person special or what you like about them. It is that very quality that you are lacking in your own relationship or circumstances. 
1 You have been taken away. 2  Something significant to you is taken away. 3  Taking away things that you no longer need. 4  Someone important to you is taken away. 5  Taking away something important to your loved ones. Quick explanation of dreams…. 1  It means that someone in your life wants you to do things that you want to do. 2  You are feeling a certain level of anxiousness. 3  You want to sort your life. 4  You are worried that someone you love will bid you farewell.