Share Post Tweet Pin It. Another staple in our kitchen, Advieh is an aromatic Persian spice mix, much like the Indian Garam Masala, and is used extensively in Persian cooking. Advieh tends to be more aromatic than “warm” compared to the garam masala. 
Persian Spice Mix: Advieh. Pin it. As the weather grows cooler and I delve into my spice cupboard more frequently, one of my go-to spice mixes is advieh. This warm, aromatic blend comes from Persian cuisine, and it can be used in all kinds of rice dishes, meats, vegetables, and more. Advieh is comparable to a mild garam masala — fragrant, a little sweet, and gently warming rather than spicy. Look for advieh at Iranian grocery stores, or make your own. Najmieh Batmanglij has recipes in her A Taste of Persia and Food of Life cookbooks, and My Persian Kitchen has a recipe online.
Cook. An aromatic Persian spice blend which is good added to stews and pulses. This recipe is from  A Taste of Persia by Najmieh Batmanglij. The author suggests adding the rose petals to the ground spices. After trying both ways, I prefer to whizz them in the spice grinder for a minute or two
Advieh is a spice blend used primarily in Persian cooking, and it shows up a lot in traditional rice and chicken dishes. As expected, every cook makes her own blend, but most recipes include cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, cumin, and rose petals. Place all spices in a small bowl and blend with a fork. Store in a covered container and sprinkle a pinch or two on things that could use a light dusting of magic… like cauliflower rice, Persian Roasted Leg of Lamb, Sweet Potato Soup, or Crispy, Oven-Baked Sweet Potato Fries.
Closeup of a bowl of advieh-e polo, as displayed in an Iranian spice shop (before mixing). Advieh or adwiya (Persian: ادویه ‎‎) is a spice mixture used in Persian cuisine and Mesopotamian cuisine. It is used in rice dishes, as well as in chicken and bean dishes. Although its specific composition varies from the Persian Gulf to the Caspian Sea, common ingredients include turmeric, cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, rose petals or rose buds, cumin, and ginger.
Follow. I came across a recipe that involves the Persian spice mix advieh. Having come across several different combinations, I was wondering if anybody could give me the tsp by tsp to make my own (I own most of thew spices I have seen called for). one such recipe: * 2 tablespoons dried rose petals.
Quantity: Advieh (pronounced advie) and also known as adwiya, is a Persian spice blend used to flavor bean, chicken and rice dishes. 
http://www.spice-mixes.com/advieh.html. Advieh is a spice mix that is popular throughout the Middle East, particularly in Iranian and Iraqi cuisine. It can be used as a dry rub for meat or as a general seasoning for stews, soups, rice and legume dishes. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 