PTHrP is related in function to the normal parathyroid hormone. When a tumor secretes PTHrP, this can lead to hypercalcemia. As this is sometimes the first sign of the malignancy, hypercalcemia caused by PTHrP is considered a paraneoplastic phenomenon. The protein was first isolated in 1987 by T.J. Martin's team at the University of Melbourne. Miao et al. showed that disruption of the PTHrP gene in mice caused a lethal phenotype and distinct bone abnormalities, suggesting that PTHrP has a physiological function.
Description. PTH-related peptide is produced by some cancers, including those of the lung, breast, head, neck, bladder, gastrointestinal tract, and ovaries, as well as leukemia and lymphoma. High levels of PTH-related protein may be the cause of elevated calcium levels in many cancer patients. This condition is referred to humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy (HHM). Since PTHrP has the same N-terminal as PTH, it can bind to the same receptor and stimulate the action of PTH.
In this review,the role of the tumor peptide parathyroid hormone-relatedpeptide (PTH-rP) in the effects of cancer on the skeletonwill be discussed. Effects of tumors on the skeleton and calcium homeostasis Osteolytic bone diseaseOsteolytic bone disease is the most common effect ofmalignant disease on the skeleton. Endocrinology 134 2424-2430.Moseley JM, Jubota M, Diefenbach-Jagger H, Wettenhall REH, Kemp BE, Suva LJ, Rodda CP, Ebeling PR, Hudson PJ, Zajac JD & Martin TJ 1987 Parathyroid hormone-related protein purified from a human lung cancer cell line.
Cancer Therapy Vol 6, page 695 695 Immunochemical characterization of circulating parathyroid hormone-related protein in patients with humoral hypercalcemia of cancer. New Engl J Med 322, 1106-1112. Carbone PP, Frost JK, Feinstein AR (1970) Lung cancer: perspectives and prospects. 
Parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP) is a regulatory protein associated with cell growth in non-osseous tissues and with osteoclast stimulation in bone. It has been implicated in the pathogenesis of bone metastases, particularly in breast carcinoma. Expression of parathyroid hormone-related protein and its receptor in bone metastases from prostate cancer. J Pathol 2000; 191: 170-174. Article MEDLINE. 27 Lee C et al. Expression of parathyroid hormone-like protein in prostate cancer and prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia. J Urol 1997; 157: (Suppl 4) 225.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Parathyroid hormone-related protein (or PTHrP) is a protein member of the parathyroid hormone family. It is occasionally secreted by cancer cells (breast cancer, certain types of lung cancer including squamous cell lung carcinoma). The protein was first isolated in 1987 by T.J. Martin's team at the University of Melbourne. Miao et al. showed that disruption of the PTHrP gene in mice caused a lethal phenotype and distinct bone abnormalities, suggesting that PTHrP has a physiological function.
Parathyroid hormone-related peptide: expression in prostate cancer bone metastases. A A G Bryden, S Islam, A J Freemont, J H Shanks, N J R George and N W Clarke. Expression of parathyroid hormone-related protein and its receptor in bone metastases from prostate cancer. J Pathol 2000; 191: 170-174. Article MEDLINE. 27 Lee C et al. Expression of parathyroid hormone-like protein in prostate cancer and prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia. J Urol 1997; 157: (Suppl 4) 225.
A protein with biological activities similar to parathyroid hormone (PTH) has been purified from serum-free culture medium obtained from a human lung cancer cell line (BEN). A major protein band of 18 kDa was obtained on NaDodSO4/polyacrylamide gels, with faint bands at 35 kDa and 67 kDa. Antibody raised to a corresponding synthetic peptide recognized the PTH-related material but showed less than 1% cross-reactivity with human PTH amino-terminal peptides. BEN cells contained PTH DNA, but not PTH messenger RNA, indicating involvement of another gene.
Consequently osteo-active cytokines and growth factors produced by cancer cells may influence the tropism of certain tumours for metastasis to bone, and offer an advantage in the genesis of bony secondaries. Parathyroid hormone related peptide (PTHrP) is a protein with N-terminal homology to PTH (Guise et al, 1997). It is able to bind to and activate the PTH receptor and is consequently a potent stimulant of osteoclasts and osteoblasts (Abou-Samra et al, 1992). The co-expression of parathyroid hormone-related peptide and its receptor suggest that autocrine parathyroid hormone-related peptide mediated stimulation may be a mechanism of escape from normal growth regulatory pathways.