From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The thickness of Earth's crust (km). The continental crust is the layer of igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks that forms the continents and the areas of shallow seabed close to their shores, known as continental shelves. This line is called the Conrad discontinuity .). Consisting mostly of granitic rock, continental crust has a density of about 2.7 g/cm 3 and is less dense than the material of Earth's mantle, which consists of ultramafic rock and whose density is about 3.3 g/cm 3.
Oceanic crust is made of a rock called basalt, which is darker and more dense than continental crust. You would only have to drill for about 7 km before crossing the Moho and entering the upper mantle. Below the Moho, the mantle extends to the surface of the Earth's outer core-about 2890 km down. Chemical composition - 'crust' and 'mantle'. The surface of the Earth is the top of the 'crust' - whether one is under the sea or on land! By and large, the portions of the crust that poke above the sea to form land consist of 'continental crust' . If you were to drill into this, you would find rock with an overall composition similar to granite-a rock rich in the minerals feldspar and quartz (aluminium and silicon)
Oceanic crust is the uppermost layer of an oceanic tectonic plate. The crust overlies the solidified and uppermost layer of the mantle. The crust and the solid mantle layer together comprise an oceanic plate. The plates of the Earth together are referred to as the lithosphere. Oceanic crust is the result of erupted mantle material originating from below the plate, cooled and in most instances, modified chemically by seawater. 
Continental crust is also less dense than oceanic crust, whose density is about 2.9 g/cm 3. Continental crust is considerably thicker than oceanic crust, mostly 25 to 70 km versus the average thickness of the oceanic crust of around 7–10 km. About 40% of Earth's surface is now overlaid by continental crust. This line is called the Conrad discontinuity .). Consisting mostly of granitic rock, continental crust has a density of about 2.7 g/cm 3 and is less dense than the material of Earth's mantle, which consists of ultramafic rock and whose density is about 3.3 g/cm 3.
Report Abuse. Apollo, Oceanic crust is predominantly made of the rock basalt. Basalt is an extrusive igneous rock (meaning it forms once lava reaches the earth's surface... or ocean floor... and cools down). It is a dark colored, grey to black rock that has a lot of iron and magnesium in it, but not a lot of silicon
Earths Crust. Introduction. The Earths crust is the outermost layer of our planet and is less than 1% of the Earth's volume. The crust and the mantle contain different kinds of rocks making them chemically different. The upper mantle rocks are primarily peridotite. The crust contains of a variety of rocks. Igneous rocks, sedimentary rocks, and metamorphic rocks are the main categories of rocks found on the Earth's surface. These rocks are iron rich, dense and heavier than continental crust rocks. Continental crust. When a continental crust and an oceanic crust meet they form a subduction zone. The heavier oceanic crust is forced beneath the lighter continental crust where it subducts into the lithosphere and melts.