The spinal cord is a long, thin, tubular bundle of nervous tissue and support cells that extends from the medulla oblongata in the brainstem to the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The brain and spinal cord together make up the central nervous system (CNS). The spinal cord begins at the occipital bone and extends down to the space between the first and second lumbar vertebrae; it does not extend the entire length of the vertebral column. It is around 45 cm (18 in) in men and around 43 cm (17 in) long in wome
In humans, the spinal cord stops growing in infancy and the end of the spinal cord is about the level of the third lumbar vertebra, or L3, at birth. By the time adulthood is reached, because the bones of the vertebral column continue to grow, the end of the cord is at the level of L1 or L2 (closer to the head). The cauda equina (Latin for horse's tail) is a bundle of spinal nerves and spinal nerve roots, consisting of the second through fifth lumbar nerve pairs, the first through fifth sacral nerve pairs, and the coccygeal nerve, all of which originate in the conus medullaris of the spinal cord.
At the pointed end of the conus medullaris, the nerve roots of the spinal cord continue in a dangling formation called the cauda equina, which resembles a horse’s tail. Because the conus medullaris resides in the lower back, injuries or conditions of the lumbar spine can affect this terminal end of the spinal cord. 
Spinal cord. The spinal cord, about 45 cm in length, extends from the foramen magnum, where it is continuous with the medulla oblongata, to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebra (The range is T12 to L3). Below that level, the vertebral canal is occupied by spinal nerve roots and meninges. 
Although the spinal cord cell bodies end around the L1/L2 vertebral level, the spinal nerves for each segment exit at the level of the corresponding vertebra. For the nerves of the lower spinal cord, this means that they exit the vertebral column much lower (more caudally) than their roots. The brain and spinal cord together make up the central nervous system (CNS). The spinal cord begins at the occipital bone and extends down to the space between the first and second lumbar vertebrae; it does not extend the entire length of the vertebral column.
The cauda equina. The spinal cord ends around the first and second lumbar vertebrae in the lower back and continues as nerve roots. This bundle of nerve roots is called the cauda equina. They exit the spinal canal through openings in the vertebrae (foramen), just like other nerve roots. 
The spinal cord ends with the conus medularis. Nerves still exit from the spine below this level. In an embryonic infant, the spinal cord is the full length of the spine, but as the fetus develops, the spinal cord also develops to terminate in the L1/L2 region. See the links for more information. 
The spinal nerves carry information to and from different levels (segments) in the spinal cord. Both the nerves and the segments in the spinal cord are numbered in a similar way to the vertebrae. The point at which the spinal cord ends is called the conus medullaris, and is the terminal end of the spinal cord. It occurs near lumbar nerves L1 and L2. After the spinal cord terminates, the spinal nerves continue as a bundle of nerves called the cauda equina. Spinal Nerves. Nerves called the spinal nerves or nerve roots, branch off the spinal cord and pass out through a hole in each of the vertebrae called the foramen. These nerves carry information from the spinal cord to the rest of the body, and from the body back up to the brain.
Confidence votes 959. In an adult the lower end of the spinal cord usually ends at approximately the first lumbar vertebra, where it divides into many individual nerve roots (L1). That is the reason Lumbar Puncture usually perform at L3-L4 in order to prevent accidentally injure to the spinal cord. 