English Meaning: The name Teddy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Teddy is: Wealthy guardian. From the Old English name Eadweard, meaning rich or happy, and guardian. Also a diminutive of Edgar: Fortunate and powerful. Also an abbreviation of Theodore.
French Meaning: The name Teddy is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Teddy is: Prosperous protector. A FrenchOld English name Eadmund, meaning rich or happy, and protection. In English the meaning of the name Teddy is: Wealthy guardian. From the Old English name Eadweard, meaning rich or happy, and guardian. Also a diminutive of Edgar: Fortunate and powerful. Also an abbreviation of Theodore.
Teddy is absolutely the CUTEST nickname anybody could ever have! I love this name, but a) only on boys, and b) as a nickname (particularly for the name Theodore). This nickname is so cute, it even made the very evil character Theodore (Teddy) T-Bag Bagwell on the show Prison Break a little more likeable! 
Comments and insights on the name Teddy: | Edit. My son is named Teddy after his father. At first, I was completely against the name, but then I spoke to my aunt who worked in a school and said none of her students were named Teddy, and that was a plus for me.
Teddy is a very popular first name for males (#505 out of 1220, Top 41%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#58999 out of 150436, Top 39%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Teddy for boys. Teddy is also a variation of Edward (Old English). Teddy is also used as a derivative of Edwin (Old English), Ted (Greek, Old English), Theobald (Old German) and Theodore (Greek). Kreatif forms: Taydy, Tendy, Tidy. [ more ].
[ 2 syll. ted-dy, te-ddy ] The baby girl name Teddy is also used as a boy name, with the latter form being far more popular. It is pronounced T EH D-iy- †. Teddy has its origins in the Old Greek language and it is used largely in English. Teddy is a diminutive of the English, German, and Greek Theodora. Teddy is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Teddy has mainly been a boy name in the last century.
Teddy is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Te-ddy. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1978 in baby name popularity for boys with 72 occurrences. It ranked 6911 in popular baby names for girls with 18 occurrences. View the Teddy Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Teddy has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Teddy to other names. Teddy is a diminutive (nickname) of Edward
Teddy /ted-dy/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English, Greek and Old German derivation, and the name Teddy means wealthy protector; wealthy guard; wealthy friend; God's gift; wealthy guard; brave people. Teddy is a version of Edmund (Old English). Teddy is also a variation of Edward (Old English). Teddy is also used as a derivative of Edwin (Old English), Ted (Greek, Old English), Theobald (Old German) and Theodore (Greek). Kreatif forms: Taydy, Tendy, Tidy. [ more ].