In anticipation of his Super Bowl performance, fans can get tickets to catch Bruno Mars in concert on 2013’s Moonshine Jungle Tour.
Bruno Mars is finishing up the last of his first leg of the 'Moonshine Jungle World Tour' which will be held on February 15 and 16, 2014 at the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas in Las Vegas, NV.
The Moonshine Jungle Tour was the second concert tour by American singer-songwriter Bruno Mars in support of his second studio album, Unorthodox Jukebox. The tour began on June 22, 2013 and continued through October 18, 2014.
Bruno Mars is on tour in 2015, with The Moonshine Jungle Tour. Don't miss out on your chance to be Locked Out of Heaven with Bruno Mars this year, and watch him perform his hits such as Treasure, Grenade, and many more!
Bruno Mars concert tickets are on sale. You can find the list of Bruno Mars tour dates here. Peter Gene Hernandez, known by his stage name Bruno Mars, is an American singer-songwriter and record producer.
4/4/2014: Since performing in the Super Bowl Halftime show two months ago Bruno Mars tickets continue to be one of the most sought after tickets in the county. Of the 48 shows on his upcoming Moonshine Jungle Tour an astonishing 27 are sold out which has driven up Bruno Mars ticket prices in the past few weeks.
9-10-14: Earlier this week, Bruno Mars announced that he has begun working on his third LP. The massive success of 2012’s Unorthodox Jukebox was complemented by Mars’ Moonshine Jungle World Tour, which concludes at the Festival Presidente in Santo Domingo, DR on October 4.
About Bruno Mars Tour Albums. Bruno Mars came on to the Pop / Rock scene with the release of tour album Doo-Wops & Hooligans, released on October 4, 2010. The song Just the Way You Are was instantly a hit and made Bruno Mars one of the top emerging great concerts to attend.
4/2/2014: Bruno Mars Moonshine Jungle Tour is off and running on the other side of the globe in Asia. Bruno Mars played in front of a sell out crowd of 11,000 in Singapore last night his performance on stage brought back memories of the late Michael Jackson with his great dance moves and bright smile.
In anticipation of his Super Bowl performance, fans can get tickets to catch Bruno Mars in concert on 2013’s Moonshine Jungle Tour. Mars was born and raised in Honolulu, Hawaii, where he gained his first exposure to music playing rock and Motown covers in his family’s band, The Love Notes.