A wild rabbit's home is called a burrow, tunnel, den, or warren. A pet rabbit's home is called a hutch, condo, ex-pen, run, etc. In the wild, it's called a burrow for a sing … le rabbit, and family groups live in a series of burrows called a warren. Burrows are underground tunnels where rabbits live. A wild rabbit's home is called a burrow, tunnel
In captivity (domestic or pet rabbits), their cage is called a hutch, condo, ex-pen, a run, or simply a cage; some rabbits also live free range in bunny-proofed rooms or even the whole home may be bunny-proofed. A wild rabbit's home is called a burrow, tunnel, or warren. A pet rabbit's home is called a hutch, condo, ex-pen, run, etc. In the wild, it's called a burrow for a sing … le rabbit, and family groups live in a series of burrows called a warren
A domestic rabbit or domesticated rabbit, more commonly known as simply a rabbit, is any of several varieties of the European rabbit species that have been domesticated. Domestic rabbits have been used as sources of food, fur, and wool, as research subjects, and as pets. Phoenician sailors visiting the coast of Spain c. 12th century BC, mistaking the European rabbit for a species from their homeland (the rock hyrax Procavia capensis), gave it the name i-shepan-ham (land or island of hyraxes).
Male rabbits are called bucks; females are called does. An older term for an adult rabbit is coney, while rabbit once referred only to the young animals. Another term for a young rabbit is bunny, though this term is often applied informally (especially by children) to rabbits generally, especially domestic ones. Phoenician sailors visiting the coast of Spain c. 12th century BC, mistaking the European rabbit for a species from their homeland (the rock hyrax Procavia capensis), gave it the name i-shepan-ham (land or island of hyraxes).
by Laurie. Many people think that a baby rabbits is called a bunny, but this is actually just an affectionate nickname for rabbits, and not the correct English name for rabbit babies. An adult rabbit was known as a coney, and a baby coney (baby rabbit) was called a rabbit! So, if you want to know what baby rabbits are called, it depends what century you are looking at.
A lesser known fact is that in ancient times rabbits where in fact called coneys. An adult rabbit was known as a coney, and a baby coney (baby rabbit) was called a rabbit! So, if you want to know what baby rabbits are called, it depends what century you are looking at.
Male rabbits are called bucks; females are called does. An older term for an adult rabbit is coney, while rabbit once referred only to the young animals. Rabbit habitats include meadows, woods, forests, grasslands, deserts and wetlands. Rabbits live in groups, and the best known species, the European rabbit, lives in underground burrows, or rabbit holes. A group of burrows is called a warren.
Rabbit House Size. Rabbit House Length The minimum recommended length for a rabbit house is 6 ft (180 cm). This is for a medium sized rabbit the smaller breeds too. In fact smaller rabbits need more space as they are much more active. Larger breeds will need longer - 7ft or more. 
A wild rabbit's home is called a burrow, tunnel, den, or warren. A pet rabbit's home is called a hutch, condo, ex-pen, run, etc. In the wild, it's called a burrow for a sing … le rabbit, and family groups live in a series of burrows called a warren. Burrows are underground tunnels where rabbits live. Maddest of all: to see life as it is, and not as it should be.. --Man of La Mancha. The name of a rabbit's home depends on a few things. If it's your pet then it's a hutch, and if it's wild it's a burrow, run, or warren.