The Petrarchan sonnet is called by that name because: a. Petrarch wrote proficiently in this form c. Petrarch is the most popular writer in this form b. Petrarch made the form famous d. All of the above choices are correct regarding Petrarchan sonnet. **The Petrarchan sonnet is called by that name because Petrarch wrote proficiently in this form, Petrarch is the most popular writer in this form and Petrarch made the form famous. Question.
Petrarchan sonnet: this is the original sonnet form, which came from Italy and was brought into England by two guys named Wyatt and Surrey, whose sonnets are almost translations of the original Italian ones written by an Italian poet named Petrarch, who really championed the form. The Shakespearean (also called an English) sonnet is composed of four quatrains (of four lines each) and a concluding couplet (two lines). The rhyme scheme is as follows: abab cdcd efef gg. Each quatrain serves to develop an element or a facet of the problem.
The Petrarchan sonnet was not developed by Petrarch himself, but rather by a string of Renaissance poets. Because of the structure of Italian, the rhyme scheme of the Petrarchan sonnet is more easily fulfilled in that language than in English. The sonnet is split in two groups: the octave (of 8 lines) and the sestet (of 6 lines), for a total of 14 lines. The octave (the first 8 lines) typically introduces the theme or problem using a rhyme scheme of abba abba.
Arushi Bahuguna 789 A Comparative Study of Petrarch’s and Shakespeare’s Sonnets From “scattered” to “powerful rhyme” The sonnet, in its Italian and English traditions, was very different in its origin from what it came to be defined by Petrarch and Shakespeare. 
Form [edit]. The rhyme scheme for the octave is typically a b b a a b b a. The sestet is more flexible. Petrarch typically used c d e c d e or c d c d c d for the sestet. Some other possibilities for the sestet include c d d c d d, c d d e c e, or c d d c c d (as in Wordsworth 's Nuns Fret Not at Their Convents Narrow Room poem). The sonnet is split in two groups: the octave (of 8 lines) and the sestet (of 6 lines), for a total of 14 lines. The octave (the first 8 lines) typically introduces the theme or problem using a rhyme scheme of abba abba.
All of the above choices are correct regarding Petrarchan sonnet. **The Petrarchan sonnet is called by that name because Petrarch wrote proficiently in this form, Petrarch is the most popular writer in this form and Petrarch made the form famous. Added 3/27/2013 3:35:04 PM. All of the above choices are correct regarding Petrarchan sonnet. **The Petrarchan sonnet is called by that name because Petrarch wrote proficiently in this form, Petrarch is the most popular writer in this form and Petrarch made the form famous. Question.
The Petrarchan sonnet was the first kind of sonnet to be introduced into England. It was first translated by Sir Thomas Wyatt in the early 1500s. This type of sonnet got its name from Italian poet, Francesco Petrarca, a 14th-century Italian. It is a two-stanza poem with an octave, a sestet and a total of 14 lines. The Petrarchan sonnet has an a-b-b-a, a-b-b-a, c-d-e, c-d-e rhyming system. Francesco Petrarca was a humanist, scholar and poet from Italy.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The difference is in their structure-both have fourteen lines of iambic pentameter, but they are organized in different ways. A Petrarchan (also called an Italian) sonnet, is composed of an octave (eight lines) followed by a sestet (six lines). The Shakespearean (also called an English) sonnet is composed of four quatrains (of four lines each) and a concluding couplet (two lines). The rhyme scheme is as follows: abab cdcd efef gg. Each quatrain serves to develop an element or a facet of the problem.
The difference is in their structure-both have fourteen lines of  iambic pentameter, but they are organized in different ways.      A Petrarchan (also called an  … Italian) sonnet, is composed of an  octave (eight lines) followed by a sestet (six  lines). The rhyme scheme of the octave is typically  abbaabba (this is easy in Italian because so many  words end in suffixes like -ello or -etto). 