1 011 - US exit code; dial first for international calls made from the USA or Canada. 2  Phone Number - 7 digits; first digit is 5 for Reykjavik and 4 for all remaining areas. 3  US to Iceland international dialing format : Calling Iceland from the United States explained: 1  011 - US exit code; dial first for international calls made from the USA or Canada.
The international dialing codes and dialing format to call Iceland is 1  : Landline: IDD + 354 (Country Code) + Area Code + Recipient's Number. 2  Cellular: IDD + 354 (Country Code) + 7 Digits Cellular Number. Given below is the procedure and dialing codes for making international calls to Iceland mobile or land line. While calling to Iceland from abroad, the dialing procedure is same whether you are calling from Land phone or cell phone. The international dialing codes and dialing format to call Iceland is :
This page details Iceland phone code. The Iceland country code 354 will allow you to call Iceland from another country. Iceland telephone code 354 is dialed after the IDD. Iceland international dialing 354 is followed by an area code. The Iceland area code table below shows the various city codes for Iceland. Iceland country codes are followed by these area codes
National numbers in Iceland are seven digits long and generally written in the form xxx xxxx or xxx-xxxx and the E.123 format specifies +354 xxx xxxx from abroad since the country code is +354. 
Follow @callingcodes. We hope Country Calling Codes has been of help to you in finding the Icelandic calling code for your international call from United States to Iceland. Why not bookmark this page and tell a friend about this site for the next time they need to lookup an area code or international dialing code. 
Calls to Iceland from overseas require the country code prefix, which is 354. All phone numbers within Iceland are seven digits. Numbers beginning with 6 and 8 are reserved for mobile phones. No calls are long distance within Iceland, and you don't need to dial the prefix. To call Iceland: Dial the international access code (011 from the U.S.; 00 from the U.K., Ireland, or New Zealand; or 0011 from Australia), then 354 and the seven-digit number. 
There are 2 area codes in Iceland. Iceland area codes usually have 1 digits. While calling Iceland from abroad, you need to dial the ISD code followed by the area code and finally the phone number. Given below is a list of area codes for calling Iceland's major cities/regions. Given below is the procedure and dialing codes for making international calls to Iceland mobile or land line. While calling to Iceland from abroad, the dialing procedure is same whether you are calling from Land phone or cell phone. The international dialing codes and dialing format to call Iceland is :
Exit code + 354 + Area code + Telephone Number. Exit code or access code of a country is the code which is necessary to make international calls from that country. Find the access code of the country from which you are dialing before calling Iceland. Use the Search box given below to find the area code of various cities and places in Iceland. Given below is the procedure and dialing codes for making international calls to Iceland mobile or land line. While calling to Iceland from abroad, the dialing procedure is same whether you are calling from Land phone or cell phone. The international dialing codes and dialing format to call Iceland is :