On the other hand, if you see the company losing market share to competitors that could be a sign of long-term weakness and likely a reason to sell. 1  Rapid Price Appreciation It's very possible that upon buying shares, the stock price, for one reason or another, rises dramatically in a short period of time. For example, an investor purchases shares of stock at $25 a share, and tells herself that if the stock hits $30, she will sell. What happens next is all too common. The stock hits $30 and the investor decides to hold out for a couple of more points. Surely, the stock reaches $32 and greed continues overcome rationality.
Day Trading Basics. Day traders buy and sell stocks on the same day, trying to profit from daily fluctuations of stock prices. For example, a day trader might purchase stock for $35.50 a share and sell it a couple of minutes later for $35.60 a share, at a profit of 10 cents per share. If the stock's price fell back to $35.50 later in the day, the trader might buy more shares in hope of another price increase. Day traders can buy and sell the same stock several times in the say day. However, the stock market is fluid, allowing investors to buy and sell a stock on the same day or even within the same hour or minute.
Frequent traders and day traders would howl if they could not sell and re-buy stocks on the same day in their individual retirement accounts. Frequent traders enter and exit positions quickly, making perhaps dozens of trades per day. Free Riding. IRA or not, you must observe some basic rules if you sell and buy shares on the same day. In the U.S., it takes three days for stock trades to settle. This means that if you sell shares on Monday, you will not receive the proceeds until Thurs
First, there's the taxman. There's a big disincentive, tax wise, to buying and selling stock all the time. When you sell a stock you've owned less than a year and you have a capital gain, that gain is subject to short-term capital gains tax rates. Short-term gains are taxed, generally, at your ordinary income rate.
3. Sell quickly. One allure of penny stocks is you can make 20% or 30% in a few days. If you make that kind of return with a penny stock, sell quickly. Unfortunately, many traders get greedy, aiming for a 1,000% return. Considering that the penny stock you’re in might be getting pumped up, take any profits and move on. 
That's a $1,000 gain. If you sell the stock less than a year after buying it, the tax liability on the $1,000 gain is $280. However, if you had hung on for more than a year, the maximum tax rate is 15%, for a tax of $150. You would have kept $130 more of your gain by waiting. When you sell a stock you've owned less than a year and you have a capital gain, that gain is subject to short-term capital gains tax rates. Short-term gains are taxed, generally, at your ordinary income rate.
So, the answer to your question is this: There are no rules stopping you from buying and selling stocks over and over again, but there are plenty of factors that make it a bad idea. Matt Krantz is a financial markets reporter at USA TODAY and author of Investing Online for Dummies. When you sell a stock you've owned less than a year and you have a capital gain, that gain is subject to short-term capital gains tax rates. Short-term gains are taxed, generally, at your ordinary income rate.
You can buy and sell as fast as you want to do it. Even with only minutes between the buy and sell transaction. If you are buying one day and selling the next, no problem. If you buy and sell the same day, you need to become familiar with pattern day trader requirements. That said, what you are proposing is extremely unlikely. With the numbers you used, you are looking for a 20% to 30% gain within one day