Engineer Taiichi Ohno is credited with developing the principles of lean production after World War II. His philosophy, which focused on eliminating waste and empowering workers, reduced inventory and improved productivity. Lean production is an assembly-line methodology developed originally for Toyota and the manufacturing of automobiles. It is also known as the Toyota Production System or just-in-time production. Lean production principles are also referred to as lean management or lean thinking
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Lean manufacturing is the term most commonly used to describe the Toyota Production System (TPS). In the above figure, we have the TPS house. At the base, we have operational stability, which means creating consistency in methods and tasks, equipment, workplace organization, and output of work. Lean manufacturing includes a set of principles that lean thinkers use to achieve improvements in productivity, quality, and lead-time by eliminating waste through kaizen. Kaizen is a Japanese word that essentially means change for the better or good change.
Lean Manufacturing is a production philosophy that seeks to supply exactly what the customer wants, when the customer wants it. Furthermore, Lean Manufacturing aims at supplying these goods and services with minimum waste, where waste in production is reduced through continuous improvements of the production processes. Lean Manufacturing is driven by the pull of the customer's order, where production is ideally only initiated when orders are received from customers. The concept of Just-In-Time (JIT), is fundamental to Lean Manufacturing, and will potetially help to reduce a lot of waste.
Likewise, Lean Manufacturing is seeking a production design that can handle both internal and external variability, where variability in production efficiency, product quality and customer orders are sought handled and absorbed through the total design of the Lean Manufacturing system. Lean Manufacturing is driven by the pull of the customer's order, where production is ideally only initiated when orders are received from customers. The concept of Just-In-Time (JIT), is fundamental to Lean Manufacturing, and will potetially help to reduce a lot of waste.
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management.
The core idea is to maximize customer value while minimizing waste. Simply, lean means creating more value for customers with fewer resources. A lean organization understands customer value and focuses its key processes to continuously increase it. The ultimate goal is to provide perfect value to the customer through a perfect value creation process that has zero waste. 
With lean production, components are delivered to each team's work station just-in-time, and every worker is encouraged to stop production when a fault is discovered. This is a critical distinction from the classic assembly-line process, where stoppages are expensive and to be avoided at all costs. The methods of lean production aim to combine the flexibility and quality of craftsmanship with the low costs of mass production. In lean-production systems a manufacturer's employees are organised in teams.