1 The condition of your lungs. 2  Chest X-rays can detect cancer, infection or air collecting in the space around a lung (pneumothorax). 3  They can also show chronic lung conditions, such as emphysema or cystic fibrosis, as well as complications related to these conditions. 4  Heart-related lung problems. 1 Heart-related lung problems. 2  Chest X-rays can show changes or problems in your lungs that stem from heart problems. 3  For instance, fluid in your lungs (pulmonary edema) can be a result of congestive heart failure.
Lung Biopsy. If a suspected tumor is visible on an X-ray, or cancer cells show up in a sputum test, a biopsy is used to confirm the diagnosis. A small sample of the suspicious mass is removed, usually with a needle, and doctors look at it under a microscope. Diagnosing Lung Cancer. In most cases, doctors don't suspect lung cancer until it causes symptoms like a chronic cough or wheezing. At that point, your doctor will most likely order a chest X-ray or other imaging tests. You may also be asked to cough up phlegm for a sputum test.
Annual screening for lung cancer using a standard chest x-ray does not reduce the risk of dying from lung cancer when compared with no annual screening, according to findings from the NCI-led Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian (PLCO) screening trial. 
Most lung tumours show up on X-rays as a white-grey mass. However, chest X-rays cannot give a definitive diagnosis because they often cannot distinguish between cancer and other conditions, such as a lung abscess (a collection of pus that forms in the lungs). If your chest X-ray suggests you may have lung cancer, you should be referred to a specialist (if you've haven't already been) in chest conditions such as lung cancer.
Chest x rays show the structures in and around the chest. The test is used to look for and track conditions of the heart, lungs, bones, and chest cavity. For example, chest x-ray pictures may show signs of pneumonia, heart failure, lung cancer, lung tissue scarring, or sarcoidosis. Chest x rays do have limits. They only show conditions that change the size of tissues in the chest or how the tissues absorb radiation. Also, chest x rays create two-dimensional pictures
ROBBINSDALE, Minn., Dec. 21 - A simple chest x-ray can catch a large number of Stage I lung cancers, according to baseline results from a large National Cancer Institute study. The PDQ board of the NCI has concluded that on the basis of fair evidence in the past that chest x-ray screening does not reduce mortality from lung cancer. Screening for lung cancer is not recommended by any major advisory organization.
Even when the chest X-ray looks normal, cancer may be suspected if the person has coughed up blood, develops persistent hoarseness, has chest pain or difficulty in breathing, or has had repeated episodes of pneumonia in the same place in the lung. 
This is often the first test your doctor will do to look for any masses or spots on the lungs. Plain x-rays of your chest can be done at imaging centers, hospitals, and even in some doctors’ offices. If the x-ray is normal, you probably don’t have lung cancer (although some lung cancers may not show up on an x-ray). If something suspicious is seen, your doctor may order more tests.
Chest X-rays are a common type of exam. A chest X-ray is often among the first procedures you'll undergo if your doctor suspects you have heart or lung disease. It can also be used to check how you are responding to treatment. A chest X-ray can reveal many things inside your body, including: 1  The condition of your lungs. 1 Heart-related lung problems. 2  Chest X-rays can show changes or problems in your lungs that stem from heart problems. 3  For instance, fluid in your lungs (pulmonary edema) can be a result of congestive heart failure.