Value statements are developed from your values and define how people want to behave with each other in the organization. Your value statements provide a measuring device against which you evaluate all of your actions and behaviors.
Value statements are intended to provide the organization with a structure or a foundation from which the business will operate. Business values or culture guide you in managing your business and they also provide a framework for key stakeholders (your employees, your customers, and your suppliers).
Noun. 1. value statement-a statement of the desirability of something. statement-a message that is stated or declared; a communication (oral or written) setting forth particulars or facts etc; according to his statement he was in London on that day. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Mission and Goals. Value statements’ ultimate purpose is to encourage behaviors from organization members that encourage the achievement of organizational goals and its mission. Leaders of an organization can encourage these behaviors from other members with a value framework that guides members’ behavior.
A value statement needs to be part of your business HR strategic planning process. Your definition of values (including values, morals, ethics and integrity) needs to be the heart of your strategy, your business culture and your hiring and management policies.
1. value statement-a statement of the desirability of something. statement-a message that is stated or declared; a communication (oral or written) setting forth particulars or facts etc; according to his statement he was in London on that day. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Definition and Benefits of a Values Statement. Posted by Kristin Arnold on July 1, 2012. Value statements are declarations about how the organization wants to value their customers, suppliers and be valued within their own internal community.
A declaration that informs the customers and staff of a business about the firm's top priorities and what its core beliefs are. Companies often use a value statement to help them identify with and connect to targeted consumers, as well as to remind employees about its priorities and goals.