Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: A molecule is the smallest particle in a chemical element or compound that has the chemical properties of that element or compound. Molecules are made up of atom s that are held together by chemical bonds. 
Water, is one oxygen atom bonded to two different hydrogen atoms, H 2 O. When atoms are bonded together, (H 2, O 2, H 2 O etc.) we call the total structure a molecule. Hydrogen atoms and oxygen atoms are found in many different molecules, and these different molecules make up, solids, liquids, and gasses. Whether a material is a solid, liquid, or gas depends on how these molecules (made up of atoms) interact with each other.
Hannah Peereboom says: that NaCl is salt. 2 atoms make up NaCl, salt, and if salt was composed of more atoms it would end up, as an example, Na2Cl3, 2 sodium atoms and 3 chlor … ine atoms, or something. It really depends on what the molecule is. Water is made up of two different elements: hydrogen and oxygen. Rubbing alcohol, on the other hand, is made up of three elements: hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen. Amino acids can be made up of as many as 5 elements (like in Methionine or Cysteine)
The element argon is a one-atom molecule. Other molecules can consist of two atoms of the same element. The oxygen molecule is made up of two oxygen atoms bonded together. However, in certain circumstances, three oxygen atoms bond together, forming a molecule called ozone. FIND OUT MORE. Most atoms join up with other atoms through chemical BONDS to form larger particles called molecules. They can join up with atoms of the same element or with atoms of different elements. Substances whose molecules contain different types of atom are called compounds.
Elements, Atoms, and Molecules. For a more advanced list of resources on atoms, elements and compounds. Elements are substances that cannot be separated into simpler substances. Salt is made up of the elements sodium and chloride. Water is made up of the elements hydrogen and oxygen. A molecule is the smallest particle of a substance that exists independently. Molecules of most elements are made up of only one of atom of that element. Oxygen, along with nitrogen, hydrogen, and chlorine are made up of two atoms. Look at the model of oxygen above. The two balls represents the two oxygen molecules
Compounds. When atoms of different types of elements join together, they make molecules called compounds. Water consists of compound molecules made up of 2 hydrogen atoms and 1 oxygen atom. This is why it's called H 2 O. Water will always have 2 times the number of hydrogen atoms as oxygen atoms. This is because they are all made up of different types of molecules. Molecules are not only made up of different types of atoms but also different ratios. Like in the water example above, a water molecule has
Report Abuse. Yes, atoms make up molecules. For example, water molecules are made up of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom (represented as H2O) and table salt is made up of one sodium atom and one chlorine atom (represented as NaCl). Elements-hydrogen, oxygen, chlorine... All the elements that exist are indicated in the Periodic Table. These elements exist as single atoms (e.g. neon, argon), two atoms covalently joined together (e.g. oxygen, hydrogen) and as macromolecules (e.g. diamond).
Water is a combination of two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen. Oxygen makes up about 63% of a typical animal and about 77 percent of a typical plant. The element carbon is familiar to almost everyone in the form of charcoal, which is nearly pure carbon. 
Best Answer: Yes, molecules are made from atoms. Elements-hydrogen, oxygen, chlorine... All the elements that exist are indicated in the Periodic Table. These elements exist as single atoms (e.g. neon, argon), two atoms covalently joined together (e.g. oxygen, hydrogen) and as macromolecules (e.g. diamond).