Precautions. Before taking efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to any of the ingredients; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details. Do not take this medication with other products that contain emtricitabine or tenofovir. Do not take this medication with another efavirenz product unless specifically directed by your doctor. Also, lamivudine is similar to emtricitabine and should not be taken with this medication.
Be the first to review this Drug. Efavirenz is an antiviral medication that prevents human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) cells from multiplying in your body. Efavirenz is used to treat HIV, which causes the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Efavirenz is not a cure for HIV or AIDS. Efavirenz may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Do not take efavirenz together with Atripla (combination efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir), unless your doctor tells you to. Some medicines can cause unwanted or dangerous effects when used with efavirenz. Your doctor may need to change your treatment plan if you use any of the following drugs: 1  midazolam, pimozide, St. John's wort; or. 2  ergot medicine--dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, ergonovine, methylergonovine.
Efavirenz can cause side effects such as mood or behavior changes. These symptoms may improve the longer you take the medication. Taking efavirenz at bedtime may also lessen these effects. Contact your doctor if you have more serious symptoms such as severe depression or thoughts of hurting yourself. Visit your doctor regularly. This medication can cause you to have a false positive drug-screening test. If you provide a urine sample for drug-screening, tell the laboratory staff that you are taking efavirenz. Store at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
See Side Effects section. Because this combination product has fixed doses of efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir, you should only use it if your doctor has determined that the doses of all 3 medications in this product are right for you. Do not take this medication with other products that contain emtricitabine or tenofovir. Do not take this medication with another efavirenz product unless specifically directed by your doctor. Also, lamivudine is similar to emtricitabine and should not be taken with this medication.
You should not use this medication if you are allergic to efavirenz, if you have moderate to severe liver problems, or if you are using any of the following drugs: 1  cisapride (Propulsid); 2  midazolam (Versed) or triazolam (Halcion); Visit your doctor regularly. This medication can cause you to have a false positive drug-screening test. If you provide a urine sample for drug-screening, tell the laboratory staff that you are taking efavirenz. Store at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
Before taking efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to any of the ingredients; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Do not take this medication with other products that contain emtricitabine or tenofovir. Do not take this medication with another efavirenz product unless specifically directed by your doctor. Also, lamivudine is similar to emtricitabine and should not be taken with this medication.
Before taking efavirenz, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details. Take this medication by mouth on an empty stomach, without food, usually once daily at bedtime or as directed by your doctor. Taking efavirenz with food increases the blood level of this medication, which may increase your risk of certain side effects. See Side Effects section.
Each tablet includes 600 milligrams (mg) of efavirenz, 200 mg of emtricitabine, and 300 mg of tenofovir. Atripla should be taken on an empty stomach at bedtime; this helps reduce side effects. If you miss your dose, you can take Atripla up to 12 hours late. Otherwise, take your next dose at the regular time. Atripla is a tablet that contains three antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) used to fight HIV: efavirenz (Sustiva), emtricitabine (Emtriva) , and tenofovir (Viread) . Atripla is manufactured by Gilead and Bristol-Myers Squibb. It is the first tablet that includes a complete antiretroviral regimen.
To make sure you can safely take efavirenz, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  liver disease (including hepatitis B or C); 2  high cholesterol or triglycerides; or. 3  if you have ever taken delavirdine (Rescriptor) or nevirapine (Viramune) and they were not effective in treating your condition. Visit your doctor regularly. This medication can cause you to have a false positive drug-screening test. If you provide a urine sample for drug-screening, tell the laboratory staff that you are taking efavirenz. Store at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
If you are pregnant, your name may be listed on a pregnancy registry. This is to track the outcome of the pregnancy and to evaluate any effects of efavirenz on the baby. Women with HIV or AIDS should not breast-feed a baby. Visit your doctor regularly. This medication can cause you to have a false positive drug-screening test. If you provide a urine sample for drug-screening, tell the laboratory staff that you are taking efavirenz. Store at room temperature away from moisture and heat.