eating peach kernels (i prefer to call them seeds or nuts) makes wonderful sense to me. daily diets worldwide include nuts, and many common spices/foods are seeds (cumin, anise, coriander, etc.). also, medicines are made from the parts of trees (roots, bark, leaves, fruit, seeds). If they’re not talking about pure cyanide, but about the Amygdalin, not at all. The thing is used in anti-cancer medications (doesn’t work, BTW) in higher amounts, and studies found no side-effects in taking 500mg three times a day. Which would be about 1.7Kg of just the peach’s seeds per day. Not realistic.
Peach kernels can be harvested for their medicinal properties. As do apricots, peach kernels warrant the same safeguards and recommendations to avoid poor quality and the potential for exposure to high-toxicity vulnerability from over use. Most commonly, vitamin supplements contain apricot kernels that promote healthy blood flow and prevent occasional irregularity. Additionally, peach kernels are thought to relieve symptoms associated with female complaints such as uterine fibroids, heavy bleeding, bloating, irregular menstrual cycles or fatigue. The peach's skin has a smooth, indistinct texture. The peach can be characteristed by its yellow-orange hue and pit also called the kernel. The apricot kernel can be pressed into a base oil, and this substance can be applied in skincare products and foods.
The apricot features a rich golden color in a firm, polished, modest-sized fruit. The apricot has a seed or kernel in its core. The peach's skin has a smooth, indistinct texture. The peach can be characteristed by its yellow-orange hue and pit also called the kernel. The apricot kernel can be pressed into a base oil, and this substance can be applied in skincare products and foods.
Peach kernel is an important herb used for menstrual pain and disorders, traumatic injury with bruising and pain, abdominal pain, and abdominal masses. It is often combined with safflower in herbal formulations for painful menstruation. Dried peach kernel is sold dried and as a powder. After crushing the herb it needs to be boiled in water before taking orally. It is usually used as part of a formula in combination with other herbs.
Semen Persicae. Origin: Peach kernel is the ripe seed of the fruit tree Prunus persica (L.) Batsch, or Prunus davidiana (Carr.), of the Rose family (Rosaceae), grown throughout the warmer temperate regions of both the Northern and Southern hemispheres. 
After a ripe peach is picked, the fruit stone is taken out and broken to get the kernel, which is then dried in the sunlight. The kernel is broken up before using, though it should not be broken into small pieces until it is to be used. Dried peach kernel is sold dried and as a powder. After crushing the herb it needs to be boiled in water before taking orally. It is usually used as part of a formula in combination with other herbs.
Date Published: 2013-06-07. Apricot and Peach Kernels are viewed as one of the most representative type of ingredients which are usually found in diets or skincare products. Sources. Apricot and Peach Kernels are usually found in warmer climates, but also in less temperate ones although most of the times, it leads to a series of conditions which should be maintained in order to help the plant raise and live throughout the year.
APRICOT KERNEL Overview Information. Apricot kernel is the inner part of the seed of the apricot fruit. The kernel is used to produce oil and other chemicals used for medicinal purposes. Despite serious safety concerns, apricot kernel is used for treating cancer. It is taken by mouth or given as an injection. 
Prepare the peach seeds by scrubbing all of the peach off the pit with a soft brush in clear water. If the peach was so ripe that the pit has split open, it will reveal the actual seed inside. You can remove the outer hard coat and just plant the seed kernel. Handle these seeds with care. 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Derived from the pit of the peach, peach kernel is utilized for various medicinal and cosmetic applications. As with the use of any herbal supplement, care should be taken when using peach kernel. Excessive use can induce side effects that can lead to complications. When a peach pit is prepared as a decoction, it is used for relieving constipation. Peach kernel is often used in facial massage oils. When combined with rhubarb, peach kernel can be used as a treatment for acute appendicitis. Peaches. People who experience headaches should discontinue use of peach kernels.