Current ratio is a comparison of current assets to current liabilities, calculated by dividing your current assets by your current liabilities. Potential creditors use the current ratio to measure a company's liquidity or ability to pay off short-term debts.
Subtract total stockholders' equity from total assets to calculate total liabilities. In this example, subtract $2,000 from $10,000 to get $8,000 in liabilities. This means that $8,000 of assets are paid for with liabilities, or debts, to the company.
The amount of your total liabilities equals the sum of the items listed in the liabilities section of your balance sheet. These items include actual dollar amounts you owe, such as accounts payable, notes payable and deferred taxes. They also include upfront payments for services or products you have yet to provide.
The accounting formula or balance sheet equation can be expressed in two other ways: Liabilities = Assets-Owner's Equity. Owner's Equity = Assets-Liabilities. If you know any two of the three components of the accounting equation, you can calculate the third component.
Assets are usually the first section on the balance sheet. For example, assume that current assets are $3,000 and non-current assets are $7,000. Add $3,000 and $7,000 to get total assets of $10,000. Add the items in the stockholders' equity section of the balance sheet to calculate total stockholders' equity.
The balance sheet reports a company's assets, liabilities, and owner's (or stockholders') equity at a specific point in time. Like the accounting equation, it shows that a company's total amount of assets equals the total amount of liabilities plus owner's (or stockholders') equity. The income statement is the financial statement that reports a company's revenues and expenses and the resulting net income.
Instructions. Add a company's assets to calculate total assets. Assets are all things the company deems valuable and include both current and non-current assets. Current assets (short-term) are assets that are convertible into cash within one year; non-current assets (long-term) are assets of a more permanent nature.