There are two types of third-party liability policies: bodily injury and property damage. If someone files suit against the policy owner as a result of a car accident, these policies will provide monetary protection (up to the limit of the policy). In car insurance terminology, the owner of the policy is the first party, who has contracted with the second party (the insurer) for the coverage. The third-party is the other person(s) in the accident, or the person(s) whose property the policy-owner damaged.
Third party insurance, also known as liability insurance, provides coverage for two separate areas: personal injury and property damage. Third party insurance protects you against another person’s bodily injury or property damage claims. A liability insurance policy involves three parties. As the policyholder, you are the first party and your insurance carrier is the second party. The third party is the person who files a claim against you. As part of your coverage, your insurance carrier has a duty to defend you against any claims or lawsuits.
BREAKING DOWN 'Third-Party Insurance'. Third-party automobile insurance is one of the more popular types of third-party insurance. Drivers are often required by their state to have adequate insurance coverage to ensure that damages resulting from an accident can be paid for. An insurance policy purchased for protection against the actions of another party. Third-party insurance is purchased by the insured (first party) from an insurance company (second party) for protection against another party's claims (third party). Next Up.
Third-party liability coverage can be included as part of a range of insurance types including vehicle, business and homeowner coverage. In an auto policy, the third party could be the person suing you because you rear-ended their car or the person whose fence you destroyed when you swerved off the road. 
Liability insurance is a part of the general insurance system of risk financing to protect the purchaser (the insured) from the risks of liabilities imposed by lawsuits and similar claims. It protects the insured in the event he or she is sued for claims that come within the coverage of the insurance policy. Third-party liability is an insurance policy purchased to pay the damages caused to another (a third) party by the insured's own fault. It is purchased by the insured (the first party) from an insurance company (the second party) for protection against claims made by another party (a third party).
The most common types of commercial insurance are property, liability and workers' compensation. In general, property insurance covers damages to your business property; liability insurance covers damages to third parties; and workers' compensation insurance covers on-the-job injuries to your employees. A general liability policy will cover you for common risks, including customer injuries on your premises. More specialized varieties of liability insurance include: Errors and Omissions Insurance. Errors and omissions (E & O) insurance covers inadvertent mistakes or failures that cause injury to a third party.
First-party insurance covers damages that are done to the policy-owner or his passengers. At least some amount of third-party liability coverage is required by law in most states; for the most part, first-party coverage is not. However, car insurance is not the place to save money by cutting corners; a single accident could easily wipe out someone's life savings, whether they're at fault or not. In car insurance terminology, the owner of the policy is the first party, who has contracted with the second party (the insurer) for the coverage. The third-party is the other person(s) in the accident, or the person(s) whose property the policy-owner damaged.
DEFINITION of 'Third-Party Insurance'. An insurance policy purchased for protection against the actions of another party. Third-party insurance is purchased by the insured (first party) from an insurance company (second party) for protection against another party's claims (third party). Next Up.
There are two types of third-party liability coverage: bodily injury liability and property damage liability. The first covers people costs -- medical expenses, lost wages, and pain and suffering. 
Liability insurance is designed to offer specific protection against third party insurance claims, i.e., payment is not typically made to the insured, but rather to someone suffering loss who is not a party to the insurance contract. Third-party liability is an insurance policy purchased to pay the damages caused to another (a third) party by the insured's own fault. It is purchased by the insured (the first party) from an insurance company (the second party) for protection against claims made by another party (a third party).