A gas compressor is a mechanical device that increases the pressure of a gas by reducing its volume. An air compressor is a specific type of gas compressor. Compressors are similar to pumps: both increase the pressure on a fluid and both can transport the fluid through a pipe.
1 A compressor with low suction pressure will be more noisy than one with a higher pressure. 2  Consider whether the system is properly charged, whether the expansion valve is feeding properly to use the evaporator efficiently, and whether enough air is being fed over the evaporator coil.
Compressors and pumps, when undergo a steady-flow process, consume power. The isentropic efficiency of a compressor or pump is defined as the ratio of the work input to an isentropic process, to the work input to the actual process between the same inlet and exit pressures.
1 At the compressor, the low pressure gas is changed to high pressure gas. 2  This pressure buildup can only be accomplished by having a restriction in the high pressure side of the system. 3  This is a small valve located in the expansion valve.
Unfortunately, running air compressors (AC) often uses more energy than any other equipment. Air compressor efficiency is the ratio of energy input to energy output. Many air compressors may be running at efficiencies as low as 10 percent.
Let’s begin with rotary screw compressors, which employ two interlocking screws to compress air. This is the most common type of compressor and has almost become an industry standard. A rotary screw compressor is mostly utilized for jobs of 20 – 30 horsepower and more.
The purpose of the compressor is to circulate the refrigerant in the system under pressure, this concentrates the heat it contains. 1  At the compressor, the low pressure gas is changed to high pressure gas. 2  This pressure buildup can only be accomplished by having a restriction in the high pressure side of the system.
Energy Efficiency in Air Compressors - 3 - January 2004 The number one source of energy loss in an air compressor system can usually be traced to wasted air. Wasted air is lost through leaks in the system. Although leaks are often very small, significant amounts of air can be lost.