Class Overview. Exposes methods to manage a SQLite database. SQLiteDatabase has methods to create, delete, execute SQL commands, and perform other common database management tasks. See the Notepad sample application in the SDK for an example of creating and managing a database.
SQLite is a software library that implements a self-contained, serverless, zero-configuration, transactional SQL database engine. SQLite is the most widely deployed database engine in the world. The source code for SQLite is in the public domain. More... 
SQLite is an in-process library that implements a self-contained, serverless, zero-configuration, transactional SQL database engine. It is the one database, which is zero-configured, that means like other database you do not need to configure it in your system. SQLite engine is not a standalone process like other databases, you can link it statically or dynamically as per your requirement with your application. SQLite does not require a separate server process or system to operate.(serverless). SQLite comes with zero-configuration, which means no setup or administration needed. A complete SQLite database is stored in a single cross-platform disk file.
SQLite is the most widely deployed database in the world with more applications than we can count, including several high-profile projects. SQLite is an embedded SQL database engine. Unlike most other SQL databases, SQLite does not have a separate server process. SQLite reads and writes directly to ordinary disk files. A complete SQL database with multiple tables, indices, triggers, and views, is contained in a single disk file. 
This tutorials helps you to understand what is SQLite, how it differs from SQL, why it is needed and the way in which it handles the applications Database. SQLite is a software library that implements a self-contained, serverless, zero-configuration, transactional SQL database engine. SQLite does not require a separate server process or system to operate.(serverless). SQLite comes with zero-configuration, which means no setup or administration needed. A complete SQLite database is stored in a single cross-platform disk file.
SQLite (/ˌɛskjuːɛlˈlaɪt/ or /ˈsiːkwəl.laɪt/) is a relational database management system contained in a C programming library. In contrast to many other database management systems, SQLite is not a client–server database engine. Rather, it is embedded into the end program. SQLite is ACID-compliant and implements most of the SQL standard, using a dynamically and weakly typed SQL syntax that does not guarantee the domain integrity. Unlike client–server database management systems, the SQLite engine has no standalone processes with which the application program communicates. Instead, the SQLite library is linked in and thus becomes an integral part of the application program. The library can also be called dynamically.
Publisher's Description. From Postgresql Community: SQLite is a in-process library that implements a self-contained, serverless, zero-configuration, transactional SQL database engine. The code for SQLite is in the public domain and is thus free for use for any purpose, commercial or private. Unlike most other SQL databases, SQLite does not have a separate server process. SQLite reads and writes directly to ordinary disk files. A complete SQL database with multiple tables, indices, triggers, and views, is contained in a single disk file.
SQLite is a popular choice as embedded database software for local/client storage in application software such as web browsers. It is arguably the most widely deployed database engine, as it is used today by several widespread browsers, operating systems, and embedded systems, among others. Unlike client–server database management systems, the SQLite engine has no standalone processes with which the application program communicates. Instead, the SQLite library is linked in and thus becomes an integral part of the application program. The library can also be called dynamically.
Files that contain the .sqlite file extension are most commonly associated with database files that have been created by the SQLite in-process library. The SQLite library implements a serverless, transactional, self-contained SQL database engine. SQLite is a free database application. The database files that are created by SQLite are given the .sqlite file extension and can be used to create customer lists, inventory databases and other database information. The .sqlite file extension is also used by the Mozilla Firefox Internet browser.