You must get your form and one photo signed if you’re applying for: 1  your first adult or child passport. 2  a replacement for a lost, stolen or damaged passport. 3  a renewal of a passport for a child aged 11 or under. 4  a renewal of a passport if your appearance has changed and you can’t be recognised from your existing passport. If the form is for a child passport, the countersignatory should know the person who signs the declaration rather than the child. The countersignatory must also provide their British or Irish passport number -. may check their identity.
Both sides of the photo must be clear unless it needs to be countersigned. You may need to have both the application form and photos countersigned. If so you will need to find someone who is willing to vouch for your identity. This need to be a person who either holds a valid British passport or an Irish passport. They must have known you personally for at least two years. If applying outside the UK an EU or US passport can suffice, but the application will be much quicker if the countersignatory holds a British passport. 
The passport expired in 2008, so I think they do need countersigned photos now.... Mine expired in 2007, and no countersignature was needed. I did it yesterday. The countersignature on a 1st passport is to prove who you are...that info is now on file. They won't need it again
Forms-what the countersignatory must do. After you’ve filled in the form, you must ask your countersignatory to check the details on the form are correct and sign it. By doing this, they are confirming that: 1  they’ve known you for more than 2 years. If the form is for a child passport, the countersignatory should know the person who signs the declaration rather than the child. The countersignatory must also provide their British or Irish passport number -. may check their identity.
After you’ve filled in the application form, you must ask your countersignatory to check the details on the form are correct, fill in and sign section 10. By doing this, they are confirming that: • they have known you for more than two years. • you’re who you claim to be. The countersignatory must: 1  have known the person applying for at least 2 years. 2  be able to identify the person applying, eg they’re a friend, neighbour or colleague (not just someone who knows them professionally).
Maybe give the passport office a call or see their website, others must be in a simlar situation. Originally Posted by Sophie R(84). the rules are as follows: the person counter signing must have known you (or the parent if a child) for a minimum of 2 years. They must not be related to you, including by marraige, and they must not live at the same address. They must be in a recognised profession, e.g teacher, civil servant, doctor etc. They must have a valid passport and write the number on the form. They must sign the form (Section 9 i think it is-could be 10) and declare the true likeness on the back of one photo.
Many applicants are aware that they need someone to countersign their Passport application, but a large percentage of people are not aware that the requirements for choosing the right individual to perform the countersign are very specific. Example of how to countersign a passport photo: Occupations of those who are eligible to countersign: Countersignatories must work in (or be retired from) a recognised profession or be 'a person of good standing in their community', eg: • Accountant.
Check when you need to get someone else to sign your application and photo, who can and can’t sign-and what they have to do. Some passport applications and photos must be signed by someone else (the ‘countersignatory’) to prove the identity of the person applying. If the form is for a child passport, the countersignatory should know the person who signs the declaration rather than the child. The countersignatory must also provide their British or Irish passport number -. may check their identity.
For an application in respect of a child, the countersignatory must have known the person who signs the declaration at section 11A for more than two years. They must have met the child to say that the photo is a true likeness. 
82. the rules are as follows: the person counter signing must have known you (or the parent if a child) for a minimum of 2 years. They must not be related to you, including by marraige, and they must not live at the same address. They must be in a recognised profession, e.g teacher, civil servant, doctor etc. They must have a valid passport and write the number on the form. They must sign the form (Section 9 i think it is-could be 10) and declare the true likeness on the back of one photo.