Medicare Benefits. Medicare is our country’s health insurance program for people age 65 or older. Certain people younger than age 65 can qualify for Medicare, too, including those who have disabilities and those who have permanent kidney failure. The program helps with the cost of health care, but it does not cover all medical expenses or the cost of most long-term care. More...
On the other hand, if your benefits started at age 61, you aren't Medicare-eligible until you turn 63. People who have been diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, are eligible for Medicare in the same month they get disability benefits. You also qualify for Medicare based on your spouse's record if you're at least 65 and your spouse is 62 or older and has worked a minimum of 10 years.
If you sign up for Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) and/or Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period, your coverage start date will depend on your birthday. Note. You can sign up for free Part A (if you’re eligible) any time during or after your Initial Enrollment Period starts. If you sign up within 6 months of your 65th birthday, your coverage will start the first day of the month you turn 65, or the month before you turn 65 (if your birthday is the first of the month).
65 and over-Most people qualify for Medicare beginning at age 65. You should be eligible for Medicare at the age of 65 if: 1  You are a U.S. citizen or legal resident, and. 2  You have resided in the United States for a minimum of five years. 3  Worked at least 10 years in Medicare-covered employment. Under 65 - Generally speaking, if you are under age 65, you will qualify for Medicare if: 1  You have End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD), or. 2  You have received Social Security Disability Income (SSDI) payments for 24 months (or in the first month of disability for ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease)).
Thinkstock Images/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Generally, people become eligible for Medicare coverage at the age of 65. However, there are two circumstances in which you can get coverage at 62, or even sooner. In some cases, coverage will begin automatically. You also qualify for Medicare based on your spouse's record if you're at least 65 and your spouse is 62 or older and has worked a minimum of 10 years.
Medicare is usually available to Americans aged 65 and older. In some cases, however, the Medicare eligibility age is lower; people under 65 with certain disabilities qualify for Medicare enrollment. If you’ve been getting disability benefits from Social Security or from the Railroad Retirement Board for 24 months in a row, you will be automatically enrolled in Original Medicare, Part A and Part B, when you reach the 25th month.
15. To get a copy of these publications, visit. Medicare.gov/publications, or call the toll-free number, 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). If you’re deaf or hard of hearing, call TTY 1-877-486-2048. If you have other health insurance Medicare hospital insurance (Part A) is free for almost everyone. If you’re not already getting benefits, you should contact Social Security about three months before your 65th birthday to sign up for Medicare. You can sign up for Medicare even if you don’t plan to retire at age 65.
CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES Getting Medicare before you get your FullSocial Security Retirement Benefits In the past, people generally got both Social Security retirement benefits and Medicare coverage starting at age 65. The eligibility age to get Medicare has notchanged. If you want your Medicare coverage to begin when you turn age 65, you should. contact Social Security during the 3 months before your 65th birthday. If you wait. until your 65th birthday or later, your Part B coverage will be delayed.