As of March 2013 it costs £114 for the licence process (application fee=£87 / Grant of Licence=£27) and these fees are reviewed on an annual basis. As of 2nd April 2013 these fees will be reduced to £100 (£65 application fee and £35 for the licence fee). If your vehicle fails the test, then you are given a free re-test and if your vehicle fails this then you can apply for a refund of the ‘Grant of Licence’ but the application fee is non-refundable. 
The fee for a new private hire vehicle licence, or to renew an existing licence is £71 for a six month licence, or £136 for a twelve month licence (twelve months is for vehicles under three years of age only). There is an additional fee of £34 for the vehicle identification plates on first grant applications. To apply for a private hire vehicle licence for the first time, you will need to contact the Licensing Team for the necessary application forms and then come down to the One Stop Shop in Bolton Town Hall to: 1  Pay the licence fee (see fees below);
The actual PHV Licence application fee is £150 and £100 Licence fee, so a total of £250 is payable to TfL London Taxi and Private Hire, all other fees go to the service providers. 100% Guaranteed Pass-Payable to PCO London. PCO/PHV Licence Application Fees & Costs. There are several fees your must pay to attain your licence, the total cost can vary due to the varied cost of some of the service charges for completing sections of your application.
It is legally permitted to recover the cost of providing this service, from the licence fees charged. Following a review on 25th August 2015, the Licensing & Environmental Regulation Committee approved the new fees set by the Council for functions carried out by the Licensing Team. To apply for a private hire vehicle licence for the first time, you will need to contact the Licensing Team for the necessary application forms and then come down to the One Stop Shop in Bolton Town Hall to: 1  Pay the licence fee (see fees below);
Validity of licence. operator licences last for a maximum of 5 years, driver licences for up to 3 years and vehicle licences for up to 1 year. The driver, vehicle and operator must all be licensed by the same authority. Private hire vehicle operator licence outside London. You need to get a. operator licence from your local authority if you want to run a business as a private hire vehicle (. ) operator.
Private hire vehicle licence. Use our Private hire vehicle application form [113kb] to apply for a licence or make changes to your existing licence. Private Hire Vehicles (PHV) must be booked via a licensed private hire operator. Licences for private hire will only be granted to vehicles that meet the vehicle specifications [166kb] . When you have your completed medical and your pass certificates, please call the licensing team on 01483 444371 to make an appointment to apply for your licence. At the appointed time, you must bring the following: 1  Completed relevant application form Application form to be a Private Hire Driver [33kb].
Private hire vehicle licences are normally issued for six months, however, if a vehicle is less than three years old (from the date of registration) and will travel less than 50,000 miles per annum a twelve month licence may be issued. To apply for a private hire vehicle licence for the first time, you will need to contact the Licensing Team for the necessary application forms and then come down to the One Stop Shop in Bolton Town Hall to: 1  Pay the licence fee (see fees below);
The total cost of the license depends of which type you apply for with the ‘Standard’ costing twice as much as the ‘Small’ license. Small Operators License (valid 5 years). 1  License Application Fee = £703. 2  Grant of License Fee = £550. Types of license – Small & Standard. There are two types of operator’s license and you need to decide which best fits you: ‘ 1 small’ operator’s license – These may only have a maximum of two private hire vehicles available for use at any one time.