The serum glucose blood test measures the amount of glucose in the blood sample obtained from the patient. There are two types of serum glucose testing. One is the fasting serum glucose test in which the patient should not have eaten for at least 6-8 hours before the test, and the other test can be performed randomly at any given time.
Normal levels should be below 99 mg/dL. Pre-diabetes is diagnosed when levels are between 100 to 125 mg/dL. Diabetes is confirmed if your fasting blood glucose levels are 126 mg/dL or above on repeated tests. Random or nonfasting blood glucose levels of above 200 mg/dL could mean you have diabetes, as well. Glucose Levels. A fasting blood glucose test is usually the first step to determining if you have high blood glucose levels, according to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. It is most reliable when done in the morning, after you have fasted for at least eight hours.
If you have a high blood glucose test result, talk to your doctor, and learn what the next steps should be. In some cases, high blood glucose levels may occur only temporarily. Otherwise, however, the most common explanation for elevated blood glucose is diabetes. Diabetes, including gestational diabetes associated with pregnancy, is a prevalent cause of high blood glucose test results. High blood glucose levels can also indicate thyroid disease or pancreatic inflammation.
The blood glucose test may be used to: 1  Detect high blood glucose (hyperglycemia) and low blood glucose (hypoglycemia). 2  Screen for diabetes in people who are at risk before signs and symptoms are apparent; in some cases, there may be no early signs or symptoms of diabetes. 1 Fasting glucose (fasting blood glucose, FBG) – this test measures the level of glucose in the blood after fasting for at least 8 hours. 2  2-hour glucose tolerance test (GTT) – for this test, the person has a fasting glucose test done (see above), then drinks a 75-gram glucose drink.
If the result is abnormal, it is typically followed up with a fasting blood glucose test or a GTT. Glucose blood tests are also used to screen pregnant women for gestational diabetes between their 24th and 28th week of pregnancy. 1 Fasting glucose (fasting blood glucose, FBG) – this test measures the level of glucose in the blood after fasting for at least 8 hours. 2  2-hour glucose tolerance test (GTT) – for this test, the person has a fasting glucose test done (see above), then drinks a 75-gram glucose drink.
The blood sugar concentration or blood glucose level is the amount of glucose (sugar) present in the blood of a human or animal. The body naturally tightly regulates blood glucose levels as a part of metabolic homeostasis. 
Save. A glucose serum test determines the amount of sugar in your blood. A low glucose serum level can be a sign of a condition called hypoglycemia. 1  What Causes Low Creatinine Levels? 2  Blood Sugar Levels & What They Mean
If you forget to fast prior to a fasting blood glucose test, high glucose levels may be caused by the normal rise in blood sugar that occurs after eating. If you are given a blood glucose test after eating, be sure to alert your physician, who may suggest a follow-up test to ensure proper testing conditions. Diabetes, including gestational diabetes associated with pregnancy, is a prevalent cause of high blood glucose test results. High blood glucose levels can also indicate thyroid disease or pancreatic inflammation.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: High glucose serum is referring to the glucose in the blood. Several things can cause a high glucose serum, including things you eat as well as stress. Glucose = sugar, serum = blood. High glucose serum is high blood sugar. Most of the time, high blood sugar is caused by diabetes.
Serum glucose, or blood glucose, is a measurement of the glucose levels in the bloodstream at any given time. High blood glucose readings have a number of potential underlying causes. EndocrineWeb notes methods for testing blood glucose that include the fasting blood glucose test—which measures glucose levels after 10 to 16 hours without food or drink—and the oral glucose tolerance test, which follows a fasting glucose procedure with a measured response to the ingestion of a high-sugar liquid.