The electron transport chain converts energy stored in hydrogen ions and various other substances formed in early cellular respiration to produce high energy ATP in mitochondr … ia. Mitochondria contain both an inner and an outer membrane, and it is along the inner membrane that the actual reactions of the chain occur. 
Best Answer: Well honey, this is a long answer. So sit back, relax and read. The purpose of the electron transport chain is harvesting the energy of the reduced coenzymes NADH and FADH2, which were formed in Glycolysis and the Kreb's cycle. Much of the free energy of these reduced coenzymes is transferred to ATP. NADH and FADH2 that have been formed so far transfer the hydrogen atom electrons they carry to a series of compounds, mainly proteins, which are associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane, called the Electron transport chain.
(Answer #1). The role of NADH and FADH2 is to donate electrons to the electron transport chain. They both donate electrons by providing an hydrogen molecule to the oxygen molecule to create water during the electron transport chain. NADH is a product of both the glycolysis and Kreb cycles. During the electron transport chain, NADH become NAD+ and the H get transported across the membrane. As a result, electrons reduced from NAD+ are used in the transport chain. Similar thing happens to FADH2 as well.
The final acceptor of electrons in the electron transport chain is molecular oxygen. Electron transport chains are used for extracting energy via redox reactions from sunlight in photosynthesis or, such as in the case of the oxidation of sugars, cellular respiration. The function of the electron transport chain is to produce a transmembrane proton electrochemical gradient as a result of the redox reactions. If protons flow back through the membrane, they enable mechanical work, such as rotating bacterial flagella.
Electron transport requires oxygen directly. The electron transport chain is a series of electron carriers in the membrane of the mitochondria in eukaryotic cells. Through a series of reactions, the high energy electrons are passed to oxygen. In the process, a gradient is formed, and ultimately ATP is produced by oxidative phosphorylation
An electron transport chain (ETC) is a series of compounds that transfer electrons from electron donors to electron acceptors via redox reactions, and couples this electron transfer with the transfer of protons (H + ions) across a membrane. The function of the electron transport chain is to produce a transmembrane proton electrochemical gradient as a result of the redox reactions. If protons flow back through the membrane, they enable mechanical work, such as rotating bacterial flagella.
An electron transport chain(ETC) couples a chemical reaction between an electron donor (such as NADH) and an electron acceptor (such as O2) to the transfer of H+ ions across a … membrane, through a set of mediating biochemical reactions. Electron transport chains are used for extracting energy from sunlight (photosynthesis) and from redox reactions such as the oxidation of sugars (respiration). In chloroplasts, light drives the conversion of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH and a transfer of H+ ions.
In the mitochondrial electron transport chain electrons move from an electron donor (NADH or QH 2) to a terminal electron acceptor (O 2) via a series of redox reactions. These reactions are coupled to the creation of a proton gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane. The function of the electron transport chain is to produce a transmembrane proton electrochemical gradient as a result of the redox reactions. If protons flow back through the membrane, they enable mechanical work, such as rotating bacterial flagella.