Whitening of the tongue can occur when there is a buildup or coating of bacteria and debris on the surface of the tongue due to mild dehydration, illness (when there is less use of the tongue for talking or eating), or dryness of the mouth. 
Other conditions associated with white patches or other discolorations of your tongue include leukoplakia (pre-cancerous condition), oral lichen planus (a chronic autoimmune disorder), oral thrust (a yeast infection), and syphilis (a bacterial infection from sexual contact). Every now and then you notice that your tongue (usually a healthy pink) is coated in white. While a white tongue is something that can be alarming, there is no need to worry. Most of the time, the cause of a white tongue is harmless and temporary. The surface of your tongue is covered with papillae
A coated or white tongue occurs when the surface is colonised by bacteria or fungi, and dead cells become trapped between the small nodules on the tongue. A coated tongue isn't a disease and isn't usually a sign of anything serious. It's usually only temporary. Oral thrush is a yeast infection in the mouth caused by a fungus. It can cause a burning sensation on the tongue as well as sore white plaques that can be scraped off (although it may sometimes appear as a red patch). You are more likely to develop oral thrush if you: 1  have diabetes.
A white coating on the tongue may indicate a variety conditions, ranging in severity from a simple dental hygiene issue to a precancerous growth. An overgrowth of yeast is a leading cause of a white coating on the tongue. If you develop a white coating on the tongue, see your doctor to determine the cause and best course of action. Smoking irritates the lining of the mouth, which can cause it to turn white. This cause of a white coating on the tongue typically goes away once tobacco use is stopped. Not drinking enough water and being dehydrated may also cause
Many of us have a awaken to see a thin white coating over our tongues or noticed a milky film during brushing. Changes in the color of your tongue can be alarming, but there are many causes for this condition, most of them relatively harmless and easily fixed. While dry mouth is typically the most likely cause of your white tongue, it could also result from a condition known as leukoplakia. Basically, this means the your mouth cells are overproducing, causing them to cluster on your tongue.
Definition. White tongue is a coating of debris, bacteria and dead cells on your tongue that makes it look white. Although the appearance of white tongue may be alarming, the condition is usually harmless and temporary. However, white tongue can be an indication of some serious conditions, ranging from infection to a precancerous condition. If you're concerned about a white coating or white spots on your tongue, contact your doctor or dentist. 1  Causes.
If you have a white tongue due to dry mouth, you can usually resolve this condition by drinking more water, using a humidifier, or rinsing with special mouthwash. You can also chew sugar-free gum or suck on sugarless lozenges to stimulate saliva production. You should avoid smoking and reduce your alcohol consumption. While dry mouth is typically the most likely cause of your white tongue, it could also result from a condition known as leukoplakia. Basically, this means the your mouth cells are overproducing, causing them to cluster on your tongue.
If your tongue is pale or white, then it means that you might have a Qi or blood deficiency. That might mean you’re feeling tired, or have low energy. You can read more about TCM tongue interpretation here. At the time I was visiting my TCM doc, I had a pale white tongue and that was definitely true for me. 