It may seem like common since that the working at a comfortable temperature would make you more productive, but what may not be apparent is how much of a difference just a couple of degrees can make in that very same productivity and your overall office ergonomics. Let's not forget humidity. Humidity affects how you perceive temperature. If it is humid your body can't evaporate sweat easily, air doesn't move over your skin easily and the world feels heavy. 85 degrees F at low humidity may be incredibly comfortable, while 85 degrees F at 90% humidity can sap you will to go on.
There have been a number of studies conducted to determine what temperature your office thermostat should be set at for optimal productivity across your workforce. And it should come as no surprise that the more studies that are done the more disagreement there is as to what that temperature is. Let's not forget humidity. Humidity affects how you perceive temperature. If it is humid your body can't evaporate sweat easily, air doesn't move over your skin easily and the world feels heavy. 85 degrees F at low humidity may be incredibly comfortable, while 85 degrees F at 90% humidity can sap you will to go on.
Back in 1995, the federal government even produced an 11,000 word document entitled Air conditioning and thermal comfort in Australian Public Service offices. An office which is too hot or too cold can lead to a productivity decrease, alongside grumpy workers with low morale. In a nutshell, getting the temperature right is a vital ingredient in a happy and productive workforce. 1 The Australian Standard AS 1837 – 1976 Code of practice for application of ergonomics to factory and office work recommends an average temperature range of between 20°-24°C for both offices and factories in summer. 2  In winter, the temperature should be approximately 2°C lower to account for extra clothing.
The majority of research has shown an optimal office temperature between 70 and 73 degrees Fahrenheit (21 to 23 degrees Celsius) provides the best air temperature for maximum office worker productivity. Let's not forget humidity. Humidity affects how you perceive temperature. If it is humid your body can't evaporate sweat easily, air doesn't move over your skin easily and the world feels heavy. 85 degrees F at low humidity may be incredibly comfortable, while 85 degrees F at 90% humidity can sap you will to go on.
1 70-72ºF (21-22ºC) is the temperature range that will make you the most productive. 2  Any temperature above 73º decreases your productivity. 3  At 86º and above, your productivity drops to about 90% of what it was before, a 10% decrease. 4  Any temperature below 68º also decreases your productivity. Here’s what the research shows: 1 
Studies and governments have taken sides in the battle over temperature in today's workplaces. You sit at your cubicle and the temperature is perfect — that is until the worker near you turns on her under-the-desk 1950s era space heater and blasts you with a tropical heat wave worthy of an Al Gore documentary. It's too cold versus It's too hot seems to be a never-ending battle in the workplace. The results show that performance increases with temperature up to 21-22 Celsius (69.8 to 71.6 degrees Fahrenheit), and decreases with temperature above 23-24 Celsius (73.4 to 75.2 degrees Fahrenheit). The highest productivity is at temperature of around 22 Celsius (71.6 degrees Fahrenheit)..
To have thermal comfort means that a person wearing a normal amount of clothing feels neither too cold nor too warm. Thermal comfort is important both for one's well-being and for productivity. It can be achieved only when the air temperature, humidity and air movement are within the specified range often referred to as the comfort zone. Where air movement is virtually absent and when relative humidity can be kept at about 50%, the ambient temperature becomes the most critical factor for maintaining thermal comfort indoors. However, temperature preferences vary greatly among individuals and there is no one temperature that can satisfy everyone.
Top Ten Facts About Office Temperature. Office temperatures that are too hot or too cold are one of the most common complaints amongst staff in a work environment and contribute to millions of dollars in lost productivity each year. Here are the top ten facts about office temperature that will help you win the battle for the air conditioning controls: 
A 97.0 degree body temperature can be normal, depending on what  your average body temperature is normally. 98.6 degrees is an  average normal body temperature, but some peo … ple run lower or  higher than that on a regular basis. Body temperatures vary, even within humans. The adult average is lower than 37° C, and skin temperature can vary from around 32° to 35° C (90° to 95° F), and will be cold … er when losing heat to the environment.
However, in settings for general office work, temperatures between 20°-24°C is generally found to be a comfortable temperature in winter when employees are wearing winter clothes. In the summer months, temperatures between 23°-26°C is generally comfortable when staff are wearing lightweight clothes. 1 The Australian Standard AS 1837 – 1976 Code of practice for application of ergonomics to factory and office work recommends an average temperature range of between 20°-24°C for both offices and factories in summer. 2  In winter, the temperature should be approximately 2°C lower to account for extra clothing.