Muscular endurance is the ability of a muscle or group of muscles to repeatedly exert force against resistance. Performing multiple repetitions of an exercise is a form of muscular endurance, as is running or swimming. If your muscles have to contract in a similar pattern more than one time you are using muscular endurance. The fibers in your muscles that fatigue can fail because of a lack of energy. Glycogen, or sugar, is required for both peak and sustained muscular effort. A diet low in carbohydrates can sometimes make it difficult to sustain
Strength. Muscular strength is the ability of a muscle or muscle group to exert force to overcome the most resistance in one effort. Strength can be measured based on the amount of weight lifted. Upper-body and lower-body strength are measured separately. Muscular endurance is the ability of a muscle or muscle group to exert force to overcome a resistance many times. Often the resistance is the body itself. The measurement of muscular endurance is based on the number of repetitions performed. Muscular endurance is specific to the assessment.
The definition of muscular strength is the maximum amount of force  that a muscle can exert against a form of resistance at one time.  It is using muscles to exert force and … refers to the amount of  force those muscles produce. Answered. 1 Defining What Is Muscular Strength and Endurance If you want to increase the size of your muscles and improve your muscular strength, you must do strength training exercises, such as weightlifting. 2  Muscular strength increas….
Muscular strength and endurance—Muscular strength is the strongest force possible that a group of muscles can produce to perform a task. Muscular endurance is the ability to move your body or an object repeatedly without getting tired. For most activities, you use both muscular strength and endurance. 
Muscular Strength is defined as The maximum force that can be generated by a muscle or group of muscles in one singular contraction. Muscular strength is affected by the following factors. 1 Defining What Is Muscular Strength and Endurance If you want to increase the size of your muscles and improve your muscular strength, you must do strength training exercises, such as weightlifting. 2  Muscular strength increas….
Adequate levels of muscular fitness lessen the chance of developing low back problems, osteoporotic fractures, and musculoskeletal injuries. Muscular strength is defined as the ability of a muscle group to develop maximal contractile force against a resistance in a single contraction. Muscular endurance is the ability of a muscle group to exert submaximal force for extended periods. 
Strength. Muscular strength, also referred to as limit strength, is the amount of work you can do with your muscles at one time. For example, if you can lift a 200-pound barbell during your first week of training, and lift a 205-pound barbell the next week, you’ve increased your strength. In laymen’s terms, strength refers to how much work your muscles can do at one time, power refers to the explosiveness of your movements and endurance refers to how long you can use your muscles. Strength, power and endurance are attributes that require specific training methods that differ in a variety of ways
Definition: Muscle strength Muscular strength is defined as the maximum amount of force that a muscle can exert against some form of resistance in a single effort. This is in contrast to muscular endurance, which represents multiple muscle contractions or a sustained muscle contraction over a period of time, for example during running, climbing or performing multiple reps with a dumbbell at the gym.