Cotinine is detectable in blood for at least several days after exposure to tobacco smoke. Depending on how much you smoke, the level of cotinine in your blood will reflect a nonsmoker level in 7 to 10 days. The nicotine test that offers the longest detection window is a hair follicle nicotine test.
The cotinine urine test will detect the levels of the toxin and other derivatives of nicotine for about 3 to 4 days after last known use of nicotine-containing products. This detection time frame may however differ in some cases. The test can even detect nicotine levels of 0 to 2,000ng/ml, which is far lower than the capacity of the urine tests. In this, a saliva cotinine test strip is soaked into a saliva specimen provided by the patient for about 20 minutes.
Most of the nicotine will be excreted from the system within twenty minutes after smoking. Nonetheless, it can be detected in the saliva for approximately 24 hours after the last smoke. Its metabolite, cotinine, can be detected for as long as 4 to 7 days depending on the amount of nicotine consumed. For heavy smokers, it may be detected up to seven to fourteen days. You are beginning to see how challenging it is to adequately answer the question of How Long does Nicotine Stay In Your System. The length of time it takes for nicotine and its metabolites to stay detectable in urine depends on the user’s rate of metabolism, height, weight and the how much water is consumed in a day. On average, nicotine can be detected in the urine for as long as three days.
Some tests can detect the component for up to ten days, while other tests can detect cotinine presence in the system for nearly 90 days or more. It is estimated that saliva and urine tests can detect cotinine for about 1 to 3 days, hair follicle cotinine drug test can confirm its presence for about 3 months. The test can even detect nicotine levels of 0 to 2,000ng/ml, which is far lower than the capacity of the urine tests. In this, a saliva cotinine test strip is soaked into a saliva specimen provided by the patient for about 20 minutes.
It can detect much lower levels of nicotine use than the urine test and can give an approximate nicotine consumption level. Cotinine might be detected thru a saliva test for up to 2-4 days after usage. – How long does nicotine stay in your system (hair tests). This is a reliable method to measure long-term nicotine use, but is an expensive method of testing. 
I quit smoking and need to know How long Cotinine can be detected in a persons blood and urine. I have seen so many different answers to this question all over the web and I need a REAL FACTUAL Answer to this, not 4 days not 7 days not 10 days not 21 days not 1 month not 2 months... 
In light smokers, cotinine and its levels can be detected for 2 to 3 days; in medium smokers for around 5 days; and in heavy or addicted smokers, for 10 days or more. Cotinine can remain in the system for more than 10 days in people who chew tobacco. Sponsored link. The test can even detect nicotine levels of 0 to 2,000ng/ml, which is far lower than the capacity of the urine tests. In this, a saliva cotinine test strip is soaked into a saliva specimen provided by the patient for about 20 minutes.
Blood Test for Nicotine. Nicotine presence can be detected in the blood for a short period only (about 48 hours) . However, its metabolite, cotinine, can be detected up to about three weeks from the last use and the cut-off detection levels is 200 ng/ml. The length of time it takes for nicotine and its metabolites to stay detectable in urine depends on the user’s rate of metabolism, height, weight and the how much water is consumed in a day. On average, nicotine can be detected in the urine for as long as three days.
The length of time that nicotine stays in the body and cotinine can be a reliable indicator of nicotine use depends on the amount of tobacco smoked, the number of years smoking tobacco, and the type of nicotine test performed. It can be as short as 2 days, or as long as 3 months. Both qualitative and quantitative blood tests can be used to detect nicotine use. Either blood nicotine levels or its presence or absence can be determined. Nicotine, along with its derivatives cotinine and anabasine, can be used for these blood tests.