Dear Bird Folks, About two weeks ago I discovered a Mourning Dove nesting in one of the plants on my second story deck. At first there was one egg and then a few days later a second one appeared. Last week I wrote about goldfinches and how the young birds are fed nothing but seeds. This is unusual because most growing chicks need more protein than seeds alone can provide. Well, Mourning Doves are also strict seedeaters, but they are too big of a bird to grow up on seeds alone.
(New Orleans, LA). Two Eggs In The Nest. I found doves nesting at my house. I came across them when watering my hanging plants that hang well above the ground but just off of my front entrance deck. It startled me as well as the nesting dove when I sprayed water from my water hose into the hanging ivy
The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). The bird is also called the turtle dove or the American mourning dove or rain dove, and formerly was known as the Carolina pigeon or Carolina turtledove. It is one of the most abundant and widespread of all North American birds. 
Mourning Dove Eggs. Here is a picture of the two Mourning Dove eggs in my planter. Comments: Great photo! Mourning Doves really are one of the laziest of birds when it comes to nest building. Even when they make their own nest from scratch, it is a haphazard thing.
The mourning doves are very dedicated parents! I have one nest in front of my entry door and I can observe the babies and parents everyday. When babies hatched, the first seven days the parents will rarely leave the nest unattended even if so, the mom or dad will not leave more than 1 hour. 
Mourning Doves raise three or more broods in a single breeding season. Both parents build a flimsy platform nest of twigs located from 5 to 25 feet up in a tree or bush. Two white eggs hatch in about 14 - 16 days. One egg is laid in the evening, and the second on the next morning. 
Don't get excited if the dove is not sitting on the egg or is standing over the egg not getting it warm. They will sit on it when they are ready. The incubation will take about 15 days for the eggs to fully hatch. Dove eggs do not have a waterproof membrane like chicken eggs so it is important not to get a dove egg wet. Anything you put on the egg will penetrate the shell and affect the baby inside. 
Many people ended have up taking in abandoned or injured baby doves, as mourning dove babies are very vulnerable to attacks by predators after their parents leave the nest and also during their first two or three days on the ground. Eggs are incubated for 14 to 15 days. The female doves sits on the eggs at night and during part of the day. The male dove stands guard at night, often some distance away. During the day the male relieves the female so she can defecate, eat, and drink.
If the doves are scared away from their nest by human commotion, they will usually return once things quiet down. Mourning dove with babies Eggs are incubated for 14 to 15 days. The female doves sits on the eggs at night and during part of the day. The male dove stands guard at night, often some distance away. During the day the male relieves the female so she can defecate, eat, and drink.
Pair of Mourning Doves on a Los Angeles Balcony Click here to see a series of photos of a pair of mourning doves and their babies taken by Gary Friedman of West Los Angeles. Click here to go to the Mourning Dove Baby Growth page to see a series of photos taken by Casey Musser in Springfield, Missouri. Eggs are incubated for 14 to 15 days. The female doves sits on the eggs at night and during part of the day. The male dove stands guard at night, often some distance away. During the day the male relieves the female so she can defecate, eat, and drink.