Keith Lionel Urban (born 26 October 1967) is a New Zealand country music singer, songwriter, guitarist, entrepreneur and music competition judge. In 1991, he released a self-titled debut album, and charted four singles in Australia before moving to the United States the following year. He has charted thirty-seven singles on the US country charts, of which eighteen have reached number one (counting a duet with Brad Paisley and the 2008 single  You Look Good in My Shirt , which Keith Urban himself previously recorded on Golden Road).
The Ranch (band). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Ranch was a country music trio, which formed in 1997 by Peter Clarke on drums and percussion, Jerry Flowers on harmony vocals and bass guitar, and Keith Urban on lead vocals, guitar, ganjo, and keyboards. Most of the group's material was co-written by Urban and Vernon Rust. After disbanding The Ranch, Urban resumed his solo career. Due to his solo success, The Ranch's album was re-issued in February 2004 on Capitol/EMI as Keith Urban in The Ranch with two bonus tracks: Billy and  Stuck in the Middle with You , the latter is a cover version of a single by the 1970s band Stealers Wheel.
1 Keith Urban faced his parents' wrath at age seven when he painted his band's name on the garage door of their house. 2  As a boy in Australia, Keith Urban learned to play the ukulele and milk the family's cows. K iwi cowboy Keith Urban has plenty to sing about, from his battle with drugs and alcohol to his love and marriage with fellow Aussie and Oscar-winning actress Nicole Kidman.
Artist Biography by Andrew Leahey. Although born in New Zealand and raised in nearby Australia, Keith Urban made his biggest splash in Nashville, where he helped rewrite the rules of contemporary country music. Share this page. Although born in New Zealand and raised in nearby Australia, Keith Urban made his biggest splash in Nashville, where he helped rewrite the rules of contemporary country music.
SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Keith Urban rallied his band, crew and supporting acts to make a sweet video paying tribute to fans, and in the 3 minute, 45 seconds of pure entertainment, they lip synch to Journey’s ‘Faithfully.’ It’s the perfect combination of heartfelt and hilarious! 
Urban's first Nashville band, the Ranch, made a huge splash, and the group released a self-titled debut album in 1997 to commercial acclaim. Shortly thereafter, Urban decided to leave the band to pursue a solo career. Synopsis. Keith Urban decided to pursue a solo career in the late 1990s. In 2000, he released his first, self-titled solo album. In 2001, he was named the CMA's Top New Male Vocalist.. He toured in 2004, and was named CMA's Entertainer of the Year the following year.
Keith Urban-Early Life (TV-14; 3:14) Keith Lionel Urban was born on October 26, 1967, in Whangarei, North Island, New Zealand, and raised in Australia. The musician inherited a passion for American country music from his parents. By the time he was a teenager, Keith Urban had won several talent shows and joined a country band. Synopsis. Keith Urban decided to pursue a solo career in the late 1990s. In 2000, he released his first, self-titled solo album. In 2001, he was named the CMA's Top New Male Vocalist.. He toured in 2004, and was named CMA's Entertainer of the Year the following year.