While the drought in other parts of the world is of serious concern, Tofino is quite happy when we share reports of a dry winter and spring. The weather so far this year on Vancouver Island has been exceptionally dry and sunny. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to welcome you to the longest-running Tofino website, as you are probably not reading this from Canada's favorite surf town... yet. Hopefully you are planning your trip here, because this is the best place to start your travel research.
To reach Tofino by car from the British Columbia mainland, you’ll first need to take the ferry to Nanaimo on Vancouver Island, from either Horseshoe Bay, north of Vancouver, or Tsawwassen, south of Vancouver. Population: 1,906. Location: Literally at the end of the road, Tofino is located on the west coast of Vancouver Island, accessed via Highway 4 from Parksville, 26 miles (42 kms) north of Ucluelet and 81 miles (130 kms) west of Port Alberni. Driving time from Victoria is approximately 4 to 5 hours.
Tofino is a pretty fishing village at the tip of Esowista Peninsula near the entrance to Clayoquot Sound on the west coast of Vancouver Island. Tofino is a rapidly growing tourist centre for Long Beach and other Pacific Rim destinations. Population: 1,906. Location: Literally at the end of the road, Tofino is located on the west coast of Vancouver Island, accessed via Highway 4 from Parksville, 26 miles (42 kms) north of Ucluelet and 81 miles (130 kms) west of Port Alberni. Driving time from Victoria is approximately 4 to 5 hours.
The Surf Club Adventure Centre offers luxurious new services to Resort guests and visitors to Tofino... come on by and check it out! Long Beach Lodge Resort, in Tofino BC, is perched on the edge of Cox Bay, between the pristine beauty of Pacific Rim National Park and spectacular Clayoquot Sound. The Pacific sand beaches of Vancouver Island are amongst the finest in the world. Apes invade Tofino! 10 hours ago Planet of the Apes is being filmed around Tofino and Ucluelet on the beach and in the rain forests Sustainability is a journey and not a destination 2 days ago At Tofino's Long Beach Lodge Resort sustainability is a journey and not a destination.
Tofino has many great restaurants and services to make your stay comfortable, but Tofino also has many little walks and beaches that are passed up by people visiting. It is worth making time to visit the many beaches and take in the crashing surf along with the uncrowded beaches. Tofino has a rich history and is one of the most beautiful spots to visit on the west coast.
Whale WatchingWhale watching while fishing in Barkley Sound Tofino BeachesBeaches between Ucluelet and Tofino Hiking TrailsTrails and Beaches between Ucluelet and Tofino SurfingSurfing in Tofino is a great idea for any avid surfer! Tofino has a rich history and is one of the most beautiful spots to visit on the west coast.
Tofino, Canada. Tofino has a rich history and is one of the most beautiful spots to visit on the west coast. Once you visit this beautiful part of Canada, you will most likely come back
Surfer on Long Beach at sunset (Adrian Dorst photo). Tofino (population about 2,000), reigns as the jewel of Canada's west coast. The stunning beauty and ecological diversity of Tofino's location in the Clayoquot Sound UNESCO Biosphere Reserve is the source of all activities. Imagine, all in one place, fishing, kayaking, whale watching, bear-watching, bird watching, camping, hiking, storm-watching and First Nations cultural touring. The Tofino Botanical Gardens are 5ha/12ac of indigenous beauty, gardens, forest, and shoreline encapsulating Clayoquot ecology and grandeur in a compact space.
Tofino is located in a geographical region called Clayoquot Sound, comprising about 400,000 hectares of land and marine inlets, all draining into a central marine catchment area. The Nuu-chah-nulth First Nations have made Clayoquot Sound their home for several thousand years. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to welcome you to the longest-running Tofino website, as you are probably not reading this from Canada's favorite surf town... yet. Hopefully you are planning your trip here, because this is the best place to start your travel research.