(MoneyWatch) If you need a job right now, temporary work is often a good route. Companies often are willing to hire you as a temp when they wouldn't hire you in a regular position. But, it's not all a bed of roses. Temporary employees don't have any sense of job security. (Although employer can, generally, fire anyone, they usually do not. Temporary employees have rights too! The agency placing them can't agree to discriminate. For instance, if a store, during busy season, says, I only want white girls in their 20s the agency is supposed to refuse. Of course, that's hard to do when it's your customer.
A departure appraisal reflecting the employee’s performance on a temporary assignment of 60 days or more must be prepared by the supervisor of the employee’s temporary assignment position when the employee departs the temporary assignment. The performance plan should reflect the employee’s performance expectations for the duration of the temporary assignment. Although a temporary assignment may not be anticipated to last 60 days, management must provide to the employee a performance plan once the temporary assignment is expected to last at least 60 days.
Temporary Employees. A temporary appointment is an appointment lasting one year or less, with a specific expiration date. It is appropriate when an agency expects there will be no permanent need for the employee. An agency may make a temporary appointment to: 1  Fill short-term position that is not expected to last more than one year; or, 2  Meet an employment need that is scheduled to be terminated within one or more years for reasons as the completion of a specific project or peak workload; or,
However, the employee will not receive a rating of record for the temporary promotion position unless the conditions described in IRM 6.430.5.3 (3) above are met (i.e., the employee does not meet the minimum performance period to be rated for the permanent position). The performance plan should reflect the employee’s performance expectations for the duration of the temporary assignment. Although a temporary assignment may not be anticipated to last 60 days, management must provide to the employee a performance plan once the temporary assignment is expected to last at least 60 days.
Temporary work or temporary employment refers to a situation where the employee is expected to leave the employer within a certain period of time. Temporary employees are sometimes called contractual, seasonal, interim, casual staff, outsourcing, freelance; or the word may be shortened to temps. Temporary workers may work full-time or part-time, depending on the individual case. In some instances, temporary workers receive benefits (such as health insurance), but usually benefits are only given to permanent employees.
The University can only employ a Temporary Employee for less than nine months. If there is a need to employ a Temporary Employee for a period of nine months or more, the employee needs to be hired into a regular full-or part-time University position within the department. Boston University defines a Temporary Employee as an individual who works in either a part-time or full-time position with an assignment lasting
An employee who receives a temporary promotion to a position that is anticipated to last for 60 days or more will receive a performance plan reflecting the performance expectations of the temporary promotion position. The performance plan should reflect the employee’s performance expectations for the duration of the temporary assignment. Although a temporary assignment may not be anticipated to last 60 days, management must provide to the employee a performance plan once the temporary assignment is expected to last at least 60 days.
Temporary Promotion. A temporary promotion is the temporary assignment of an employee to a higher graded position for a specified period of time, with the employee returning to his/her permanent position upon the expiration of the temporary action. 
If the performance appraisal period does not end while the employee is on the temporary promotion, the employee will receive a departure appraisal from the temporary promotion supervisor for any assignment that lasted 60 days or more. The performance plan should reflect the employee’s performance expectations for the duration of the temporary assignment. Although a temporary assignment may not be anticipated to last 60 days, management must provide to the employee a performance plan once the temporary assignment is expected to last at least 60 days.
Temporary Employees are paid only for time worked, and by definition are not eligible to receive University benefits other than statutory benefits such as worker’s compensation and unemployment compensation. Boston University defines a Temporary Employee as an individual who works in either a part-time or full-time position with an assignment lasting less than nine months.