Vetoryl for dogs is a medication used for the condition known as Cushing's syndrome. Cushing's syndrome is a condition that occurs when the adrenal glands produce too many corticosteroids, causing abdominal enlargement, increased appetite and thirst, thin skin and loss of hair, and excessive urination.
Vetoryl is a prescription medication manufactured by Dechra Veterinary Products used to treat Cushing's Disease (hyperadrenocorticism) in dogs. This disease is caused when your dog's body produces too much of the hormone cortisol.
Vetoryl Capsules contain trilostane, an adrenocortical suppressant. The starting dose for the treatment of hyperadrenocorticism in dogs is 1.0-3.0 mg/lb (2.2-6.7 mg/kg) once a day. Vetoryl should be given with food.
Vetoryl 10 mg, 30 Capsules (Trilostane) is a once daily medication that treats the symptoms of Cushing's Disease (hyperadrenocorticism) in dogs. This product helps control the excess cortisol production caused by either pituitary-dependent and adrenal-dependent cases of Canine Cushing's Disease.
Vetoryl is available as 10mg capsules, 30 mg capsules, 60 mg capsules and 120 mg capsules. The usual initial starting dose to treat Cushing's Disease in dogs is 1.0 to 3.0 mg/pound given once a day based on body weight and capsule size. For dogs at least 3.8 up to 10 lbs give one 10 mg capsules once a day.
Vetoryl has been widely used in the United Kingdom for quite some time, but only gained approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the United States in December 2008. Vetoryl is used to treat both pituitary and adrenal dependent Canine Cushing's Disease.
Vetoryl is a prescription medication FDA approved for veterinary use in the treatment of Cushing's Disease. Vetoryl is indicated for use in pituitary-dependant hyperadrenocorticism. Vetoryl also has a Minor Use designation for treatment of Cushing's Disease caused by adrenal tumors.
Trilostane (Vetoryl) is indicated for the treatment of pituitary-dependant hyperadrenocorticism and treatment of hyperadrenocorticism due to adrenocortical tumors in dogs.