What you need for this is a USB (broken or not, just make sure it's long enough), you will also need the phone you want to charge.Im using a samsung SGH-T809(old phone, didn't have its proprietary charger). 
im going to show everyone how to charge a phone with no charger. Category. License. 
Not every device will be capable of charging faster when plugged into a USB charger that can output more power. It depends on the device itself. USB charging is fairly standardized you should be able to plug any device into any USB charger and nothing will explode or catch fire. No, an external battery pack won’t actually make your phone or tablet charge faster. But, if you need to race out the door with your phone, you can pick up an external battery pack and use it to charge your phone on the go.
Yes there are ways to charge your phone without a charger. This way I use sometimes. It's not really safe for people to use if they don't watch the video so go to YouTube.com and enter in how do you charge a phone without a charger and click on the first one where there is a guy showing you how to do it. It works and it's fast. A lot of people use this method!!
Shares & Saves. Save. Cell phones can be charged a few different ways without a battery charger. You can go into your wallet or purse and buy a new battery, or you can go dangerous and hook up a low-voltage charger with alligator clamps to the battery and risk shocking yourself. Then again, you can do either of two reasonable things: use a USB data cable and your computer to charge the phone, or buy a Cellboost disposable charger to get some extra life out of your battery. (Thomas Hooke/Demand Media). Charging a Phone with a USB Data Cable
1 In order to charge your iPhone, you will need either an Apple-brand iPhone cable or a third-party charging cable that is compatible with an iPhone. 2  You can then plug this cable into a computer, or into a USB wall-charger. 1 You can then plug this cable into a computer, or into a USB wall-charger. 2  There are lots of hoax videos that claim to allow you to charge using residual energy from other objects, or by plugging your device into fruit.
Do you have any part of the charger? If you have the USB cable (part of the charger), you can charge it through a computer. Or use a charger for the new iPad if you have that. If not, then it's impossible. You could go to a phone parts and accessories shop and see if they have a charger that will work for an iPhone 5. Where I live, there's about 4 of these phone accessories places all in one town so it's worth a look. Good luck.
Remove the battery from the device. You will need access to the connection points on the battery. Keep in mind that the battery is not intended to be accessed on certain models of cell phone, so know what can be done with the model you have. 