Chinking is the gritty, mortar-like material seen between courses of logs in many log homes. Modern Chinking is a flexible, mortar-mortar textured sealant. Chinking can be a necessity or simply an esthetic addition to a log home’s appearance. Before we discuss how to chink your home, let’s cover who needs it, what does it do, and what is it made of.
Posted at 4:18 PM, Jan. 15, 2006. Chinking is the broad white band you see between log courses. Your walls look like they are striped. Historically, chinking was applied to a log home in order to keep the wind from howling in between the logs. When cut by hand, logs are sometimes scribed so that an upper log is shaped to match the contours of the log beneath it. This creates a tighter fit. 
Chinking is the material that fills the gap between logs in a log home. A properly built Scandinavian Chinkless style of log home will have no chinking at all (thus the name ‘Scandinavian Chink-less’ rather than “Scandinavian Chinked”). 
Chinking is now commonly thought of as a water-based, synthetic sealant that is textured like mortar and has considerable elasticity and flexibility. Twenty years ago, chinking was generally thought of as Portland cement-based grout that was applied to the joints between logs, reinforced with metal lath. Chinking can be used in most places where caulk would be used, but chinking is more commonly used in large joints between logs and when the building owner wants the nostalgic look of old-fashioned, textured cement grout.
Chinking is an elastic sealant material that has a coarse surface which is designed to look like old-fashioned mortar and is used on a range of log home joints. Chinking is used for aesthetic purposes and keeping out the elements. 
History. By procedural means very similar to caulking, the goal of structural log chinking is to weatherproof log walls. The term &ldquo;chink&rdquo; is of Old English origin and related to the word &ldquo;crack.. To &ldquo;chink&rdquo; something essentially means to fill in a narrow space. Found This Helpful. Modern construction terminology commonly defines the phrase &ldquo;log chinking&rdquo; as a method of sealing the walls of log buildings to protect the interior space from adverse environmental conditions.
The Chinking in the Armor. Chinking is a caulk-like sealant used to fill the gaps between the logs in log homes. Backer rods, or backing rods, are generally first placed between the logs, and the chinking fills the space around the rods and between the logs. Chinking helps protect log structures from drafts, moisture and pests. 
Price:$262.95. View Details. Chinking is an elastic sealant material that has a coarse surface which is designed to look like old-fashioned mortar and is typically used on larger log home joints. Chinking can be used for aesthetic purposes or it can be used to keep the elements on the outside of your log home. It is best to apply a stain that is compatible with the chinking first because it will act as a primer for the chinking and will normally improve the overall adhesion of the log home chinking material.