Overview. Mannose-binding lectin protein (MBL) deficiency is a complement component deficiency that alters the function of the body's immune system. This condition usually causes frequent and sometimes severe infections in infants and young children.
mannan-binding lectin (MBL), a circulating plasma, acute phase protein of hepatic origins that plays an important role in the innate immune response to infection, because it binds to carbohydrates on bacteria, and subsequently activates the complement pathway.
Reference Range(s). Mannan-Binding Lectin (MBL) is a serum collection (c-type lectin) and is considered an important component of the innate immune system. Clinical studies have used 50 or 100 ng/mL to define severe MBL deficiency
Mannose-binding lectin deficiency is a condition that affects the immune system. People with this condition have low levels of an immune system protein called mannose-binding lectin in their blood. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that assembles into a complex called mannose-binding lectin. Functional mannose-binding lectins are made up of two to six protein groups called trimers, which are each composed of three of the protein pieces (subunits) produced from the MBL2 gene.
Mannose-binding lectin (MBL), also called mannose-binding protein or mannan-binding protein (MBP), is a lectin that is instrumental in innate immunity. Contents. In order to activate the complement system when MBL binds to its target (for example, mannose on the surface of a bacterium), the MASP protein functions to cleave the blood protein C4 into C4a and C4b. The C4b fragments can then bind to the surface of the bacterium, and initiate the formation of a C3-convertase.
Mannan-Binding Lectin (MBL) is a serum collection (c-type lectin) and is considered an important component of the innate immune system. 
INTRODUCTION. Mannose-binding lectin (MBL), also known as mannan-binding protein (MBP), is a protein that is involved in complement activation via the lectin pathway (figure 1). The complement system provides immediate defense against infection and has proinflammatory effects. ng/mL. 
The MBL2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that assembles into a protein complex called mannose-binding lectin. Functional mannose-binding lectins are made up of two to six protein groups called trimers, which are each composed of three of the protein pieces (subunits) produced from the MBL2 gene. 
Author information: (1)Children's Cancer Research Institute, Vienna, Austria. Mannan-binding lectin (MBL) deficiency has been classified as a commonly occurring immune disorder, affecting approximately 30% of the human population. 