Just so you know, the state check does not come from the IRS--it comes from your state tax office and that will take longer than from the feds. It is faster if you have the amount direct deposited--checks take alot longer--anywhere from 6-8 weeks. Check take longer-up to six weeks, depending on how far behind the state is in processing returns. The IRS does not give you your state refund. The state refund comes from the state, and each state is different.
In Michigan they direct deposit your refund in 7-12 days-usually a couple of days before the IRS deposits the federal refund. Check take longer-up to six weeks, depending on how far behind the state is in processing returns. The IRS does not give you your state refund. The state refund comes from the state, and each state is different.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I heard that it takes 6-8 weeks for it to be processed & the check received. You get your refund a lot faster if you e-file. Source(s): www.irs.gov click the where's my refund link on the IRS website. 
Best Answer: You don't get a state refund from the IRS. All states are different, but the fastest way by far to get a refund is to file electronically with a direct deposit of the refund into your bank account, in which case it is usually a matter of 8 to 10 days (in New Jersey at least). Check take longer-up to six weeks, depending on how far behind the state is in processing returns. The IRS does not give you your state refund. The state refund comes from the state, and each state is different.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in. [Image: Daily Finance 1  ]. Share 746. 2  Tweet 18. 3  Share 9. 4  Share 10
If you paper file, it will take three to four weeks for the IRS to process the return and acknowledge your refund. If you e-file, you will get a notice of arrival within 24 hours and confirmation of refund within 72 hours. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process. 5. File on a Sunday or Monday. If you can control it, try to file on a Sunday or Monday to maximize the likelihood that you will receive your refund before the weekend.
4. Request Direct Deposit. Once your tax return is accepted and the refund approved, you can choose to have your money directly deposited in your bank account within a week. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process. 5. File on a Sunday or Monday. If you can control it, try to file on a Sunday or Monday to maximize the likelihood that you will receive your refund before the weekend.