Another feature of Argentine cuisine is the preparation of homemade food such as french fries, patties, and pasta to celebrate a special occasion, to meet friends, or to honor someone. Italian staples, such as pizza and pasta, are eaten as commonly as beef. Fideos (noodles), tallarines (fettucine and tagliatelle), noquis (ñoquis), gnocchi, ravioles and (canelones) cannelloni can be bought freshly made in many establishments in the larger. cities
Some prohibitions are specific to a particular part or excretion of an animal, while others forgo the consumption of plants, fungi, or insects. Food prohibitions can be defined as rules, codified or otherwise, about which foods, or combinations of foods, may not be eaten and how animals are to be slaughtered. The origins of these prohibitions and commandments are varied. People, or some people, abstain from consuming various foods and beverages for a variety of religious, cultural, legal or other societal prohibitions.
They may not be to everyone’s tastes, but the following foods, whilst considered weird and bizarre to some of us, are considered delicious delicacies in other countries. Although eating these foods might seem like a form of ‘extreme dining’ to us, they are in fact quite normal to the people who eat them. Hong Kong and the US are the largest importers of birds’ nests and a bowl of soup can cost around $30 to $100 per bowl, whilst a kilo of nest can cost between $2,000 and $10,000.
1. Food: Along the world's miles of coastline, man has always had a very available food source-high in protein and trace minerals, because of the many kinds of molluscs to be found there. Mussel and oyster beds, clam-flats and other abundant shellfish have always provided an easy source of food. *One problem does exist; however. 
AREPAS – VENEZUELA AND COLOMBIA. As such a big continent, there are many regional variations of South American food. However, certain ingredients form the basis of all variations of food. The same maize flour that is used to make tortillas in Mexico and tamales in Peru, is used for arepas in Venezuela and Colombia. One of the most exciting bits about travelling is trying out your favourite foods at the source. We all know there’s nothing like eating Pad Thai in Thailand, curry in India, tagine in Morocco or a big fat burger in the USA.
Criolla food is also particularly hot on tasty, filling stews like Locro (pork, white bean and sweetcorn stew) or variations of the same idea like Carbonado (beef with fresh veg, apples and peaches) or Cazuela Gaucho (with chicken and pumpkin). The most common sweet is Dulce de Leche, made from heating sugar and milk which makes a caramel type sauce. The Argentines wack it on bread, biscuits, in cakes and it is also a very popular ice cream flavour. The huge European influence in Argentina is clearly visible in the food. The Spanish have made paella, traditional stews, churros and alfajores (pastries with dulce de leche and chocolate) staples in Argentine cooking
Get the low down on the must-eats for Peru, Brazil, Colombia or Argentina with my list of 12 foods that you really have to try when travelling South America. One of the most exciting bits about travelling is trying out your favourite foods at the source. We all know there’s nothing like eating Pad Thai in Thailand, curry in India, tagine in Morocco or a big fat burger in the USA.
Ingredients vary, but may include beef, lamb, pork, chicken, Argentine chorizos (pork sausages), potatoes, sweet potatoes, apples and holed squashes filled with cheese, cream and peas. The food is covered with leaves and damp pieces of cloth to keep the heat in, and covered with plenty of soil. Italian staples, such as pizza and pasta, are eaten as commonly as beef. Fideos (noodles), tallarines (fettucine and tagliatelle), noquis (ñoquis), gnocchi, ravioles and (canelones) cannelloni can be bought freshly made in many establishments in the larger. cities
Many of these prohibitions constitute taboos. Many food taboos and other prohibitions forbid the meat of a particular animal, including mammals, rodents, reptiles, amphibians, fish, molluscs and crustaceans, which may relate to a disgust response being more often associated with meats than plant-based foods. People, or some people, abstain from consuming various foods and beverages for a variety of religious, cultural, legal or other societal prohibitions.