From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Allelic exclusion is a process by which only one allele of a gene is expressed while the other allele is silenced. For autosomal genes, diploid organisms inherit one copy from each parent. At least two distinct selection events can lead to allelic exclusion. On one hand, one allele of the gene can be transcriptionally silent, which would result in the expression of only the second allele.
Antigen receptor allelic exclusion is defined as the surface expression of Ig or TCR chains from a single allelic copy of corresponding genetic loci. In this context, allelic exclusion might function as an early cell-autonomous tolerance mechanism to reduce the frequency of developing lymphocytes with expression of two or more poly-specific Ag receptors and thereby facilitate central tolerance.
in each cell of an individual heterozygous at an autosomal locus, the nonpreferential suppression of the phenotypic manifestation of one or other of the alleles; the phenotype of the body is thus mosaic. Compare: lyonization. A phenomenon in which one of the two genes for which an individual is heterozygous is expressed, while the other gene is excluded (i.e., not expressed, or inactivated). Allelic exclusion is typical of the expression of the Ig superfamily of genes, and is characteristic of B and T cells. Allelic exclusion explains a cell’s ability to express only one of the two possible allelic forms of Ig or T-cell receptor. 
Maintenance of TCRβ and IgH allelic exclusion in DP thymocytes and pro-B cells also must involve the suppression of secondary V rearrangements on alleles that have assembled out-of-frame V-D-J-C genes in DN or pro-B cells (Fig. 2). In this context, allelic exclusion might function as an early cell-autonomous tolerance mechanism to reduce the frequency of developing lymphocytes with expression of two or more poly-specific Ag receptors and thereby facilitate central tolerance.
In this model, Ig allelic exclusion is a statistical consequence of the low probability of rearranging an allele in the correct reading frame that encodes a pairing Ig chain, given the high probability of generating a non-productive (out-of-frame) allele or an allele encoding a non-pairing Ig chain. We then discuss the mechanisms that regulate V(D)J recombination to bring about the allelic exclusion of Igκ and Igλ light chain genes. Finally, we speculate on the relevance of monospecificity to B-cell function within the adaptive immune system.
Allelic exclusion, self tolerance, and autoimmunity. A long-standing tenent of adaptive immunity is that virtually all lymphocytes express surface TCR or Ig chains from one allele to ensure monospecific Ag recognition and suppress autoimmunity by facilitating central tolerance to self-reactive lymphocytes. In this context, allelic exclusion might function as an early cell-autonomous tolerance mechanism to reduce the frequency of developing lymphocytes with expression of two or more poly-specific Ag receptors and thereby facilitate central tolerance.
The V-to-(D)-J recombination step of Ag receptor loci subject to allelic exclusion is thought to occur on one allele at a time, with the assembly and expression of a functional TCR or Ig gene from the first allele inhibiting V-to-(D)-J rearrangement within the corresponding locus on the second allele (37). In this context, allelic exclusion might function as an early cell-autonomous tolerance mechanism to reduce the frequency of developing lymphocytes with expression of two or more poly-specific Ag receptors and thereby facilitate central tolerance.
The development of B and T cells differ in a number of important ways which will be discussed below. There are several common features though one of which, allelic exclusion, applies to both lineages and results in the ability of mature T and B cells to express a single antigen receptor. 
The allelic exclusion of immunoglobulin (Ig) genes is one of the most evolutionarily conserved features of the adaptive immune system and underlies the monospecificity of B cells. Allelic exclusion of immunoglobulin genes: models and mechanisms. Vettermann C(1), Schlissel MS. Author information: (1)Division of Immunology & Pathogenesis, Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.
The allelic exclusion of immunoglobulin (Ig) genes is one of the most evolutionarily conserved features of the adaptive immune system and underlies the monospecificity of B cells. We then discuss the mechanisms that regulate V(D)J recombination to bring about the allelic exclusion of Igκ and Igλ light chain genes. Finally, we speculate on the relevance of monospecificity to B-cell function within the adaptive immune system.