Often, the blooms turn the water a deep red. Harmful algal blooms, or HABs, occur when colonies of algae—simple plants that live in the sea and freshwater—grow out of control while producing toxic or harmful effects on people, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, and birds. The human illnesses caused by HABs, though rare, can be debilitating or even fatal.
1 Red Algae: Red algae are mostly large, many celled algae. 2  The red algae's red pigment blocks off the color of chlorophyll. 3  One species of algae is eaten in Japan and another species of algae is used to make agar. 4  Red algae can be 30-100 cm attached to rocks and shells. 
Seaweed and Algae Shake can be purchased from the Nutricentre, Holland and Barrett, and online   A seaweed condiment to shake on your food like pepper is made by a company … called Seagreens. PS: take note, diatom is also a type of algae. the major difference that you can observe between a diatom and a seaweed is their size. Diatom is a micr … oalgae(microscopic in size) and seaweed, is a macroalgae(can be observed by the naked eye). Jake Weatherby.
1 Although red algae are found in all oceans, they are most common in warm-temperate and tropical climates, where they may occur at greater depths than any other photosynthetic organisms. 2  Most of the coralline algae, which secrete calcium carbonate and play a major role in building reefs, belong here. 1 Most of the world's seaweeds belong to this group. 2 
Algae are a diverse group of organisms that occur in various shapes and sizes and have different ecological roles. Thousands of species of algae occur world-wide in both fresh and marine waters. Many species of freshwater algae float in the water, but others are attached to submerged rocks or aquatic plants. Most freshwater species are inconspicuous and do not create problems for humans. The cells of green algae may occur singly, as spherical colonies, or as filaments. Sometimes filamentous green algae can create problems when it grows in cotton candy type clouds in the water. Generally most green algae are highly palatable and a good food source for zooplankton.
Its a type of algae. PS: take note, diatom is also a type of algae. the major difference that you can observe between a diatom and a seaweed is their size. Diatom is a micr … oalgae(microscopic in size) and seaweed, is a macroalgae(can be observed by the naked eye). Jake Weatherby. 116,992 Contributions
Mangroves and seagrasses are two the only two types of true plants that often occur within coral reef complexes. Both groups are capable of rapid growth and high production rates, and thus of making a substantial contribution to the food webs of coral reef systems. Seagrasses are most often found in shallow, sheltered marine or estuarine waters. They are the only type of true plant to successfully colonize the sub-tidal sea. The distribution of seagrasses within coral reef systems is restricted to the protected waters of the lagoon (back reef).
1. Brown Algae-the Phaeophyta. Brown algae is the largest type of algae. Brown algae is in the phylum Phaeophyta, which means dusky plants.. Brown algae is brown or yellow-brown in color and found in temperate or arctic waters. Brown algae typically have a root-like structure called a holdfast to anchor the algae to a surface
Seaweeds: Macroscopic Reef Algae. Large, multicellular forms of marine algae are commonly called  seaweeds . These algal forms are widely distributed within coral reef ecosystems, where they occur as one of three main types based on color: green, red, and brown. Three main types of seaweeds: green (left), brown (middle), and red (right). Seagrasses are most often found in shallow, sheltered marine or estuarine waters. They are the only type of true plant to successfully colonize the sub-tidal sea. The distribution of seagrasses within coral reef systems is restricted to the protected waters of the lagoon (back reef).