A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region with a significant reservoir of biodiversity that is under threat from humans. Norman Myers wrote about the concept in two articles in “The Environmentalist” (1988), & 1990 revised after thorough analysis by Myers and others in “Hotspots: Earth’s Biologically Richest and Most Endangered Terrestrial Ecoregions”.
A recent series of papers has pointed out that biodiversity hotspots (and many other priority region sets) do not address the concept of cost. The purpose of biodiversity hotspots is not simply to identify regions that are of high biodiversity value, but to prioritize conservation spending. Norman Myers wrote about the concept in two articles in “The Environmentalist” (1988), & 1990 revised after thorough analysis by Myers and others in “Hotspots: Earth’s Biologically Richest and Most Endangered Terrestrial Ecoregions”.
Around the world, 34 areas qualify under this definition, with nine other possible candidates. These sites support nearly 60% of the world's plant, bird, mammal, reptile, and amphibian species, with a very high share of endemic species. Norman Myers wrote about the concept in two articles in “The Environmentalist” (1988), & 1990 revised after thorough analysis by Myers and others in “Hotspots: Earth’s Biologically Richest and Most Endangered Terrestrial Ecoregions”.
A biodiversity hotspot is a region with a high level of endemic species that is under threat from humans. The term hotspot was introduced in 1988 by Norman Myers. While hotspots are spread all over the world, the majority are forest areas and most are located in the tropics. The number and variety of plants, animals and other organisms that exist is known as biodiversity. It is an essential component of nature and it ensures the survival of human species by providing food, fuel, shelter, medicines and other resources to mankind.
The most straightforward definition is variation of life at all levels of biological organization. A second definition holds that biodiversity is a measure of the relative diversity among organisms present in different ecosystems. Diversity in this definition includes diversity within a species and among species, and comparative diversity among ecosystems genetic diversity-diversity of genes within a species. The most straightforward definition is variation of life at all levels of biological organization[3]. A second definition holds that biodiversity is a measure of the relative diversity among organisms present in different ecosystems.
To qualify as a hotspot, an area must contain at least 0.5% or 1,500 of the world's 300,000 plant species as endemics. In fact, 15 of the 25 hotspots contain at least 2,500 endemic plant species, and 10 of them at least 5,000. 
There is a genetic variability among the populations and the individuals of the same species. species diversity-diversity among species in an ecosystem. Biodiversity hotspots are excellent examples of species diversity ecosystem diversity-diversity at a higher level of organization, the ecosystem. To do with the variety of ecosystems on Earth Biodiversity is not distributed evenly on Earth. The most straightforward definition is variation of life at all levels of biological organization[3]. A second definition holds that biodiversity is a measure of the relative diversity among organisms present in different ecosystems. Diversity in this definition includes diversity within a species and among species, and comparative diversity among ecosystems genetic diversity-diversity of genes within a species
Biodiversity is the variety of different types of life found on Earth and the variations within species. It is a measure of the variety of organisms present in different ecosystems. This can refer to genetic variation, ecosystem variation, or species variation (number of species) within an area, biome, or planet. The number and variety of plants, animals and other organisms that exist is known as biodiversity. It is an essential component of nature and it ensures the survival of human species by providing food, fuel, shelter, medicines and other resources to mankind.
To qualify as a biodiversity hotspot on Myers 2000 edition of the hotspot-map, a region must meet two strict criteria: it must contain at least 0.5% or 1,500 species of vascular plants as endemics, and it has to have lost at least 70% of its primary vegetation. Norman Myers wrote about the concept in two articles in “The Environmentalist” (1988), & 1990 revised after thorough analysis by Myers and others in “Hotspots: Earth’s Biologically Richest and Most Endangered Terrestrial Ecoregions”.