To clear your cache with Internet Explorer 4+ From the Menu bar select Tools then click on Internet Options On the General Tab select Delete Files from the Temporary Internet Files section When prompted select OK to clear your computers Memory Cache.
5. Set your cache to delete every time you close Internet Explorer. If you want the browser to automatically clear the cache whenever you close it, close the 'Delete Browsing History' window, select 'Internet Options' from the Tools menu, and check the 'Delete Browsing history on exit' checkbox.
Notes: 1  In most computer-based web browsers, to open menus used to clear your cache, cookies, and history, press Ctrl-Shift-Delete (Windows) or Command-Shift-Delete (Mac). 2  If you don't see instructions below for your specific version or browser, search your browser's menu for clear cache.
1 If you don't see instructions below for your specific version or browser, search your browser's menu for clear cache. 2  If you're unsure what browser version you're using, from the menu or your browser's menu, select. 3  In Internet Explorer and Firefox, if you don't see the menu bar, press Alt.
1. Once your browser is open, click the gear icon at the top right to open the Settings menu. Then, select Safety and Delete Browsing History.... 1  Or, alternately, you may simply press Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Delete to open the Delete Browsing History window.
1 Click the Customize icon on browser tool bar. 2  Select Settings, then Show advanced settings. 3  Under Privacy, select Clear browsing data. 4  In the dialog that appears, select the checkboxes for the types of information that you want to remove. 5  Use the menu at the top to select the amount of data that you want to delete.
1 In most computer-based web browsers, to open menus used to clear your cache, cookies, and history, press Ctrl-Shift-Delete (Windows) or Command-Shift-Delete (Mac). 2  If this doesn't work, follow the appropriate instructions below.
Delete all your data. 1  In the top-right corner of Chrome, click the Chrome menu. 2  Select More tools Clear browsing data. 3  In the dialog that appears, select the checkboxes for the types of information that you want to remove. 4  Use the menu at the top to select the amount of data that you want to delete.
1 Select Settings, then Show advanced settings. 2  Under Privacy, select Clear browsing data. 3  In the dialog that appears, select the checkboxes for the types of information that you want to remove. 4  Use the menu at the top to select the amount of data that you want to delete.