A sad story about beauty and theft. When the Parthenon was built between 447 BC and 432 BC, three sets of sculptures, the metopes, the frieze and the pediments, were created to adorn it. Of these, the metopes and the frieze were part of the structure of the Parthenon itself. They were not carved first and then put in place, high up on the Parthenon, but were carved on the sides of the Parthenon itself after it had been constructed. The metopes were individual sculptures in high relief.
So the Parthenon was an attempt on the part of Pericles and Athens to assert the city's cultural, political, and military dominance over the rest of Greece and the Aegean. Pericles called Athens the school of Hellas, an education unto Greece, and the Parthenon was intended to be the main text in the curriculum. The Parthenon was an expression and embodiment of Athenian wealth, and it was a symbol of Athenian political and cultural preeminence in Greece in the middle of the fifth century. It was larger and more opulent than any temple that had been constructed on the Greek mainland before
The Parthenon is a large temple, but it is by no means the largest one in Greece. Its aesthetic appeal emanates from the refinement of many established norms of Greek architecture, and from the quality of its sculptural decoration. These ideals are represented in the perfect proportions of the building, in its intricate architectural elements, and in the anthropomorphic statues that adorned it. Some of these details were found in other Greek temples while some were unique to the Parthenon.
The Parthenon was built completely of marble from the base of the temple to its roof tiles. It had two large-scale pediments, each filled with over 20, larger-than-life-sized marble figures in compositions that extolled Athena and her power. The Parthenon was an expression and embodiment of Athenian wealth, and it was a symbol of Athenian political and cultural preeminence in Greece in the middle of the fifth century. It was larger and more opulent than any temple that had been constructed on the Greek mainland before
The Parthenon is the dominant temple on the Acropolis. It was built for Athena between 447 and 432 B.C.E. The chief temple of the goddess Athena built on the acropolis at At … hens between 447 and 432 B.C. and considered a supreme example of Doric architecture. Athena, the virgin goddess. Parthenon is the main Temple of the Athens Acropolis build in the 5th century BCE and was dedicated to the goddess Athena protector of the city of Athens. The Parthenon is the … dominant temple on the Akropolis.
We can only imagine how glorious the Parthenon must have appeared in the middle of the fifth century B.C., with worshippers gathered in its towering central sanctuary paying tribute to a 40-foot, gold-and-ivory statue of the goddess Athena. The Parthenon was an expression and embodiment of Athenian wealth, and it was a symbol of Athenian political and cultural preeminence in Greece in the middle of the fifth century. It was larger and more opulent than any temple that had been constructed on the Greek mainland before
The Parthenon. Continued from page 1. As a post and lintel temple, the Parthenon presents no engineering breakthrough in building construction. However its stylistic conventions have become the paradigm of Classical architecture, and its style has influenced architecture for many centuries after it was built. These ideals are represented in the perfect proportions of the building, in its intricate architectural elements, and in the anthropomorphic statues that adorned it. Some of these details were found in other Greek temples while some were unique to t
Parthenon was important because it was the first democratic  building (importance in the modern day.) It was made of Ionic and  Doric order architecture with the statue of G … oddess Athena made of  Gold & Ivory. 1 A Comprehensive Historical Overview of the Parthenon The Parthenon is one of the many scenic landmarks you find in Greece. 2  It has a fascinating, ancient and intense history.
On the Acropolis mountain in Athens, Greece. The Parthenon is near Athens, Greece. Athens, Greece. The Parthenon is an ancient Greek temple located in Athens, Greece.  It was … originally dedicated to the Greek goddess Athena. A replica  of the Parthenon was built in Nashville, Tennessee in 1897. Parthenon is the main Temple of the Athens Acropolis build in the 5th century BCE and was dedicated to the goddess Athena protector of the city of Athens. The Parthenon is the … dominant temple on the Akropolis.