Franzia: Franzia is a wine brand known for its “WineTap” box wines, out of the Yosemite area of California. The brand is named for Teresa Franzia, who founded the winery in 1906. The box wines began in the 1970s and were an instant success. 
Sweet red wines are different than ice wines, dessert wines and port, all of which are sweet but have their own unique characteristics. Sweet red wines are not as bold as their drier counterparts, have mellower characteristics and are enjoyable to most white wine drinkers. Red wines are most notable for their big, bold, dry intensity. While they are full of flavor and richness, not everybody appreciated their dryness which is the opposite of sweet. Those making the switch from white wines to red may find that a sweet red wine helps ease the transition
Ahhh, Franzia. Everyone recalls the intimate joy of ripping open that cardboard box and fumbling around for the plastic spout like some kind of strange foreplay, before pouring it into definitely-not-wine-glasses. 
I know all the stigma associated with wine in a box. I understand that it's not the most elegant of dispensers, but if you enjoy wine, then wine in a box might be a good value for you. Wine purists won't like the idea that it doesn't come in a bottle with a sleek, slender, sexy neck and old world style cork. If you're interested in saving money on wine, then you'll have to turn a blind eye to all that tradition, and at least give wine in a box a try. 1 For example, you're probably not going to find Gewurztraminer or Pinot Noir or Cabernet Franc in a box. 2  These aren't popular with most people. 3  Second, the wine is produced in bulk (like nearly all wine) and blended to have broad appeal.
This wine from Limoux, which boasts some of the higher-altitude vineyards in southern France's Languedoc region, is the best in the French Rabbit lineup (from a company that makes only box wines). Black cherry, mixed berry fruit aromas, and hints of leathery earth give it a quintessential Pinot Noir profile. The irreverent winemakers who bucked the trends by producing quality wine in jugs a few years back now tackle the Tetra Pak format (specially designed aseptic cartons) with their line of Bandit wines. In a world where so much Pinot Grigio is vapid, this California wine shows more character than most bottled versions.
This is the same wine you'll find in a bottle, so if you enjoy jammy Shiraz, why not save a few bucks with the bag-in-box, referred to as a cask in Australia, where the package is as commonplace as kangaroos. The irreverent winemakers who bucked the trends by producing quality wine in jugs a few years back now tackle the Tetra Pak format (specially designed aseptic cartons) with their line of Bandit wines. In a world where so much Pinot Grigio is vapid, this California wine shows more character than most bottled versions.
One of the best available today is not only an award winner, but is it also a boxed wine. Scoring a whopping 84 points (that's a very good) at the 2012 Ultimate Wine Challenge, Black Box's Sweet Red is a winner. Easy drinking, with flavors of juicy red fruits and chocolate make this one enjoyable wine. Red wines are most notable for their big, bold, dry intensity. While they are full of flavor and richness, not everybody appreciated their dryness which is the opposite of sweet. Those making the switch from white wines to red may find that a sweet red wine helps ease the transition
If you're partial to dry wines, we felt the Black Box Sauvignon Blanc was worth the extra dollars in comparison with this box, but if you're open to a little sweetness—especially if you're serving it with slightly sweet dishes like pad thai, the Bota Box riesling is a solid budget option. Bota Box sells for around 5 bucks for the the 500mL and $18 for the 3 liter, which is the same volume as 4 regular bottles. I should note that this is about $7 less than Black Box large format, which makes a difference in some cases. Read on for the full details.
The Riesling from Bota Box is a touch sweet, but its balance impressed us. With only 11.5% alcohol, this wine has a sweet, floral scent which comes through in the flavor: think white peaches and honey. Bota Box sells for around 5 bucks for the the 500mL and $18 for the 3 liter, which is the same volume as 4 regular bottles. I should note that this is about $7 less than Black Box large format, which makes a difference in some cases. Read on for the full details.