Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue. An unusual urine color can be a sign of disease. For instance, deep red to brown urine is an identifying characteristic of porphyria, a rare, inherited disorder of red blood cell
Green urine is urine that is green in color, though it also may be greenish-brown or greenish-yellow, and it may be cloudy or clear. A change in urine color may be temporary, or it may be persistent. The duration and course of green urine can vary widely, depending on the cause. 
The normal color of the urine varies from pale yellow to straw-yellow. If there is something wrong with your body, urine may be present dark yellow, orange, pink, red, green, blue, brown and even black. Sometimes you may notice the urine is colorless. Too much liquid or caffeine. If your urine is clear or very pale, you may be drinking a lot of liquids or drinking fluids with a high content of diuretics such as caffeine. 2. Diuretics. Medications, containing diuretics, may make your urine colorless, because they force the body to get rid of extra water.
Diabetes Insipidus is actually a metabolic disorder that has to do with your kidneys and your pituitary gland. The concentration of your urine is not at normal levels. This causes you to urinate frequently. This also accounts for the urine being clear instead of a natural straw yellow or pale yellow urine color. As long as your water intake can be kept up, there’s no real immediate danger with Diabetes Insipidus.
Pale urine is usually a good thing, as it means that you're drinking enough water, but very pale urine may also result from taking a diuretic-a medicine that forces the body to get rid of excess water-or from a rare type of diabetes called diabetes insipidus. 
1. Too much liquid or caffeine. If your urine is clear or very pale, you may be drinking a lot of liquids or drinking fluids with a high content of diuretics such as caffeine. 2. Diuretics. Medications, containing diuretics, may make your urine colorless, because they force the body to get rid of extra water. 3. Kidney disease
Pale urine (symptom description): Pale urine is listed as a type of or related-symptom for symptom Clear urine. Pale urine (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Pale urine', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Clear urine (type of symptom). However, note that other causes of the symptom 'Pale urine' may be possible. Research the causes of these symptoms that are more broader types of symptom than Pale urine: 1  Clear urine (5 causes). 2  Urine color changes (401 causes).