It's the smell that I find abhorrent when you first open a tap in the morning. I don't know if its because of excessive minerals, or what. For $15 the water authorities here in St. Johns County will test your water for bacteria but nothing else. The water tastes good to me (I use a filter through the refrigerator). I have tried the water right out of the tap that has a clear color, no smell, the body is full, taste is that of subtle moss and hints of aged American milk chocolate and overcooked nuts with a dry finish. 09-25-2007, 10:07 PM. riveree.
St. Johns County Utilities. We're pleased to present to you this year's Annual Water Quality Report, This report is designed to inform you about the quality water and services we deliver to you every day. Our constant goal is to provide you with a safe and dependable supply of drinking water. We at St. Johns County Utility work around the clock to provide top quality water to every tap.
Reputation: 85. Each county is responsible for its water treatment in most cases so water quality does vary but honestly 99% of the water that comes out of the tap in the US is some of the best water available in the world. As is 99% of the water in the U.S. As for who has the best and worst I have no idea. Water down here in Miami is fine, and no sulfur taste down here.
Of all the places I've lived, I can honestly say the Jacksonville and the surrounding area was the worst! I found the area to be unlivable. Traffic is a nightmare, medical is below average,the air smells like a toxic waste land and the drinking water(if you can call it that) isn't fit for toilet flushing. Jacksonville has a lot of cancer issues, polluted waters and superfund sites.
Reputation: 4533. If you are talking about drinking water, I wouldn't drink water out of a tap in Florida without taking antibiotics first. I suppose it depends on what you're used to, but wherever I've lived in Florida, the tap water has been terrible. As is 99% of the water in the U.S. As for who has the best and worst I have no idea. Water down here in Miami is fine, and no sulfur taste down here.
Maximum Contaminant Level Goal (MCLG): The level of a contaminant in drinking water below which there is no. known or expected risk to health. MCLGs allow for a margin of safety. Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL): The highest level of a contaminant that is allowed in drinking water. We at St. Johns County Utility work around the clock to provide top quality water to every tap.
I mean this water tastes a lot better than the stuff they called drinking water in Chesapeake, VA or the District of Columbia. This is Evian compared to that stuff.... I drink 1-2 liters of filtered water from the refrigerator and about 1-2 bottles of crisp, smooth, tasting Dasani bottled water a day. The water tastes good to me (I use a filter through the refrigerator). I have tried the water right out of the tap that has a clear color, no smell, the body is full, taste is that of subtle moss and hints of aged American milk chocolate and overcooked nuts with a dry finish. 09-25-2007, 10:07 PM. riveree.
Good question. If you’re on city or well water in one of our local areas (I.e Jacksonville, St.Augustine, Saint Johns, Ponte Vedra, Ponte Vedra Beach and nearby areas) the in-home water analysis is FREE. I know you’re thinking there must be a catch. I would think the same. 
We have pretty crummy tap water up here in St. Johns County. It's very hard (you need a water softener). And-even if you're on city water (like we are) - it has the merest hint of sulfur. As is 99% of the water in the U.S. As for who has the best and worst I have no idea. Water down here in Miami is fine, and no sulfur taste down here.
St. Johns County Utilities – Ponte Vedra System is responsible for providing high quality drinking water, but cannot control the variety of materials used in plumbing components. We at St. Johns County Utility work around the clock to provide top quality water to every tap.