Ayahuasca is the jungle medicine of the upper Amazon. It is made from the ayahuasca vine (Banisteriopsis Caapi) and the leaf of the Chacruna plant (Psychotria Viridis). The two make a potent medicine, which takes one into the visionary world. This indicates that ayahuasca potions were known and used at least 2,500 years ago. Ayahuasca is a name derived from two Quechua words: aya means spirit, ancestor, deceased person, and huasca means vine or rope, hence it is known as vine of the dead or vine of the soul.
Few people may actually know there is such a thing as a psychoactive cactus that is used to cause hallucinations. For those that know at least a bit about hallucinogens and psychoactive substances or ethnobotany they will surely know of the small cacti known as peyote. In these cases dizziness and visions occur. It is prepared by ingestion of a drink called “chawe” or “wichowaka” which is also the local name of the plant (Bye 1979). At first glance these cacti may seem to resemble the large saguaro cactus. Often the two are placed in the same large genus Cereus.
The mescaline experience is my favorite of the traditional psychedelics (LSD, psilocybin, mescaline). I find it has the advantages of acid: a lucid, penetrating, focused ability of the mind, rather than the more dreamy, drifting state I get from mushrooms. The amount of San Pedro one must consume to obtain the full effects is a piece approximately 10 long and 3 in diameter. Cactus is most potent when harvested during the hotter times of the year.
It is a hallucinogen derived from several different cacti – the Peyote cactus that grows in the southwestern United States and Mexico, the San Pedro cactus (Trichocereus pachanoi) found in Peru, 1 or the Peruvian Torch cactus (Trichocereus peruvianus). Peyote/Mescaline Profile Peyote (Lophophora williamsii or Lophophora diffusa) is a spineless cactus with small protrusions called “buttons” that are used for psychoactive hallucinogenic purposes. Mescaline, an amphetamine, is the principal active psychedelic compound in peyote
The three most studied harmala alkaloids in the B. caapi vine are harmine, harmaline and tetrahydroharmine. Harmine and harmaline are selective and reversible inhibitors of monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A), while tetrahydroharmine is a weak serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI). It has been reported that some effects can be felt from consuming the caapi vine alone, but that DMT-containing plants (such as Psychotria) remain inactive when drunk as a brew without a source of monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) such as B. caapi.
MESCALINE: PEYOTE SAN PEDRO CACTUS SHAMANIC SACRAMENTSINTENSITY: 3 to 8 for most experiences. MATERIAL: Mescaline is a naturally occurring psychedelic found in several cactus species, most notably, Peyote (Lophophora williamsii) and San Pedro (Trichocereus pachanoi). Several other members of the trichocereus family also contain mescaline. The amount of San Pedro one must consume to obtain the full effects is a piece approximately 10 long and 3 in diameter. Cactus is most potent when harvested during the hotter times of the year.
In the cacti this might be mescaline, which is found in Lophophora williamsii, Opuntia cylindrical (Prickly Pear), and the San Pedro Cactus (Trichocereus pachoni) (Ghansah 1993). Yet, very few of the other hallucinogenic cacti actually contain mescaline. In these cases dizziness and visions occur. It is prepared by ingestion of a drink called “chawe” or “wichowaka” which is also the local name of the plant (Bye 1979). At first glance these cacti may seem to resemble the large saguaro cactus. Often the two are placed in the same large genus Cereus.
This is found with San Pedro using shamans, Ayahuasca drinkers in the Amazon, the Mazatec who use hallucinogenic mushrooms, and the Huichols who use Peyote (McKenna, 30). The key hallucinogenic alkaloid in the San Pedro cactus is mescaline. Mescaline is unique among drugs in that its main action is a stimulant of the visual and visuo-psychic areas of the cortex (Kluver, 65). This lets the brain experience an altered state of consciousness. An insightful article. on mescaline-containing cacti, including history and anthropology of. Huachuma (San Pedro) and Peyote cultural practices. author unknown. Western society has a negative view of hallucinogenic drugs and the psychedelic experiences that they produce.
“For example, Peyote, the cactus used by the North Native Americans, is said to contain 32 active alkaloids, so when one of those alkaloids, mescaline, is isolated & synthesised in a laboratory(LSD), contrary to popular opinion, the result is not at all the same. This indicates that ayahuasca potions were known and used at least 2,500 years ago. Ayahuasca is a name derived from two Quechua words: aya means spirit, ancestor, deceased person, and huasca means vine or rope, hence it is known as vine of the dead or vine of the soul.