On average, homeowners who install Pergo flooring in an approximately 500-square-foot space will spend around $3,000 on the entire job, whereas real wood floor installation will typically cost $4,000 to $5,000 for the same amount of space. 
1 Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm). 2  With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room. 1 Installing laminate flooring is a relatively common weekend project for two people with intermediate-level do-it-yourself skills. 2 
The Costs. Minimum Cost: $5.92 per square foot. Maximum Cost: $11.19 per square foot. Basic interlocking tile installations generally cost homeowners between $525 and $725 total for a project of 100 square feet, which includes $355 to $400 for the materials and $170 to $330 for the labor. When a homeowner chooses to have professionals install interlocking tiles, the cost generally includes all the materials needed for the job as well as the cost of transporting all workers and materials to and from the job site.
Cost To Install a Locking Floor System-DIYorNot. Find the average cost to install a locking floor system yourself compared with the labor and material cost of hiring a floor installer. Use your ZIP Code to adjust the cost to where you live so you can decide to do it yourself ... Material Calculator ... Our vinyl flooring calculator below is very basic to give you a rough idea of the total square footage needed of vinyl flooring and a estimated cost for material only ... Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm).
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Laminate Flooring Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Laminate Flooring ranges between $5.67 - $7.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Laminate Flooring Installation-Average Cost Per Square Foot. Expect to pay in the high end of the estimated price range for a licensed, bonded and insured contractor and for complex or rush projects. Hire carefully, only after verifying prior work quality.
2015 Flooring Installation Costs | Average Price to Install Flooring. HomeAdvisor's flooring cost guide offers average cost information reported by ... Even once you decide on a material, you won't be able to calculate costs until you settle ... vinyl and linoleum can save you tons in both material and labor costs. Our vinyl flooring calculator below is very basic to give you a rough idea of the total square footage needed of vinyl flooring and a estimated cost for material only ... Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm).
Do you need to know the average cost to install Interlocking Tiles in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Interlocking Tile job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. 
How to Install Underlayment for a Laminate Floor With Staples. Installing underlayment for a laminate floor will require a stapler, tape an a pair of scissors. Install underlayment for a laminate floor with help from a Foreman for Lighty Contractors in this free ...
1 With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room. 2  Laminate prices are based in large part on how realistic-looking the flooring is; inexpensive laminate may look artificial. 1 Installing laminate flooring is a relatively common weekend project for two people with intermediate-level do-it-yourself skills. 2  Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm).