Protista (Amoeba). The amoeba is a tiny, one-celled organism. You need a microscope to see most amoebas-the largest are only about 1 mm across. Amoebas live in fresh water (like puddle and ponds), in salt water, in wet soil, and in animals (including people). There are many different types of amoebas
Amoeba cells contain cytoplasm, a thick liquid contained between the cell membrane. The cell membrane obtains food in a process called phagocytosis. Phagocytosis is a cellular-based process that entails the absorption of solid particles by the cell membrane. Movement. Amoeba cells contain pseudopods, or projections of membrane-bound cells. The pseudopodia extend and contract via an assembly of filaments near the end of the cell. These contractions and extensions enable the amoeba cell to move.
The ameba makes a false foot extension called a pseudopod. The cytoplasm inside the cell is capable of changing into different states. It can turn very easily from a flui … d into a solid state and vice versa. The fluid state of the cytoplasm is called plasmasol, the more solid state is called plasmagel. The cell organelles that can be seen changing position in the  moving cytoplasm in amoeba are the Amoebae move by the flowing of  their cytoplasm.
Cytoplasm: Cytoplasm is the living substance which contains all the chemical reactions necessary for life. There are two types of cytoplasm in the amoeba, the darker cytoplasm toward the interior of the amoeba is called endoplasm, and the clearer cytoplasm that is found near the cell membrane is called ectoplasm. By pushing the endoplasm toward the cell membrane, the amoeba causes its body to extend and creep along. Food Vacuole: Microscopic organisms are taken into the cytoplasm with a drop of water forming a temporary vacuole. These organisms are then digested and then exits through a structure called a food vacuole. Digestive Vacuole: This is a cavity responsible for digestion in the amoeba.
Amoeba are the unicellular, microscopic orga … nism which moves by the help of pseudopodia (false foot) Amoeba is a unicellular organism.It is found in stagnant water.It does not have a proper shape. An Amoeba is an organism that is single celled and you can find it in water or in soil. The cell organelles that can be seen changing position in the  moving cytoplasm in amoeba are the Amoebae move by the flowing of  their cytoplasm.
cytoplasm (ectoplasm and endoplasm) - a jelly-like material that fills most of the cell; the organelles (like the nucleus) are surrounded by cytoplasm. food vacuole-a cavity within the amoeba in which food is digested (broken down in order to be absorbed by the amoeba). The amoeba is a tiny, one-celled organism. You need a microscope to see most amoebas-the largest are only about 1 mm across. Amoebas live in fresh water (like puddle and ponds), in salt water, in wet soil, and in animals (including people). There are many different types of amoebas
Acanthamoeba. An amoeba (also ameba, amoeba amœba or) amoeboid is a type of cell or organism which has the ability to alter its, shape primarily by extending and retracting. Pseudopods amoebae do not form a single taxonomic, group but are found in every major lineage of eukaryotic. organisms 
An amoeba consists of a single blobby cell surrounded by a porous cell membrane. The amoeba breathes using this membrane-oxygen gas from the water passes in to the amoeba through the cell membrane and carbon dioxide gas leaves through it. The amoeba is a tiny, one-celled organism. You need a microscope to see most amoebas-the largest are only about 1 mm across. Amoebas live in fresh water (like puddle and ponds), in salt water, in wet soil, and in animals (including people). There are many different types of amoebas
Single-celled means that amoebas have only one cell for their entire body. A human body has more cells than you can count. The inside of an amoeba is a jelly-like fluid called cytoplasm. Bits of food and other materials float around in the protoplasm. Amoebas are so tiny that you need a microscope to see them. They live in water, including lakes, ponds, streams, rivers, and puddles. 