PNF stretching is a specific flexibility protocol that uses a combination of isometric contractions and partner-assisted stretching techniques. Several styles of PNF are used, the most practical being the CRAC (contract-relax, antagonist-contract) technique. PNF stretching is best done with a partner after a light warm-up. A warm-up may consist of walking briskly, cycling for 5-10 minutes or engaging in any activity until you first break a sweat. Whenever you do a warm-up you are literally raising the temperature within the muscle.
Learn how to use PNF Stretching to take your Flexibility to the next level. Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF) is a more advanced form of flexibility training that involves both the stretching and contraction of the muscle group being targeted. PNF stretching was originally developed as a form of rehabilitation, and to that effect it is very effective
PNF stretching, or proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation stretching, is a set of stretching techniques commonly used in clinical environments to enhance both active and passive range of motion in order to improve motor performance and aid rehabilitation. PNF can be used to supplement daily stretching and is employed to make quick gains in range of motion – for example to help athletes improve performance.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) stretching is a technique which is used to increase flexibility and range of motion. 
Hold-Relax The hold-relax PNF stretching technique is used to facilitate the relaxation of muscles to gain range of motion. This method uses an isometric contraction rather than an isotonic one. To achieve this the limb is place in painfree range and an isometric contraction is sustained. The limb is then moved into the new range. 
PNF stretching is an advanced stretching technique that entails both stretching and contracting particular muscle groups in order to render improved flexibility and increased muscle strength. 
PNF Stretching. PNF stretching (or proprioceptive muscular facilitation) is one of the most effective forms of flexibility training for increasing range of motion (1,2). PNF techniques can be both passive (no associated muscular contraction) or active (voluntary muscle contraction). PNF stretching is not recommended for anyone under the age of 18. 6. If PNF stretching is to be performed as a separate exercise session, a thorough warm up consisting of 5-10 minutes of light aerobic exercise and some dynamic stretches must precede it.
Before we really get into proprioceptive muscular facilitation (PNF) stretching, you should take a minute to learn more about the basics of flexibility training. PNF stretching is probably the most effective form of flexibility training available to you for increasing your range of motion (ROM). This is a more advanced form of flexibility training, involving both the stretch and contraction of the targeted muscle group.
PNF stretches (proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation stretches) are a method of rapidly expanding your range of motion. While originally designed for rehabilitation, they are now used by athletes and weekend warriors as well. Weight training is one of the best methods of strength training! This style of PNF stretching is also called contract-relax-contract and contract-relax-agonist-contract (CRAC).This is very similar to the hold-relax. The therapist/helper moves the limb to the limit of its range of motion, and the patient then pushes against the therapist's resistance (for 20 seconds).