Those molecules that consist of charged ions with opposite charges are called IONIC. These ionic compounds are generally solids with high melting points and conduct electrical current. Ionic compounds are generally formed from metal and a non-metal elements. See Ionic Bonding below. 
Water exhibits molecular polarity. This means it has positive an negative charges at regions called dipoles. These dipoles are similar to the charges that ions have, but are n … ot quite as strong in the case of water. Ions are simply components of ionic compounds. When an ionic compound is mixed with water it will typically dissolve because the positive and negative charges will rip apart, or ionize, the ionic compound into its ion components. For example, NaCl where Na is th … e metal and Cl is the nonmetal. 1 person found this useful. 1  The Definition of Ionic Compounds The word ionic refers to any compound between one or more cations and one or more anions. 2  A cation is an ion that has fewer electrons than protons, which makes it positive.
The goal of this lab is for you to discover some of the properties of ionic compounds. The physical properties of a substance such as flame color, crystal structure, solubility, conductivity and melting point of a substance tell us a lot about the type of bonding in a compound. 
1 Electrical conductivity of the compound in aqueous solution. 2  Ionic compounds conduct electricity when dissolved in water, because the dissociated ions can carry charge through the solution. 3  Molecular compounds don't dissociate into ions and so don't conduct electricity in solution. 1 Electrical conductivity of the compound in liquid form. 2  Ionic compounds conduct electricity well when melted; metallic solids do as well. 3  Covalent molecular compounds do not, because they usually don't transfer electrons unless they react.
In chemistry, an ionic compound is a chemical compound in which ions are held together in a structure by electrostatic forces termed ionic bonds. The positively charged ions are called cations and the negatively charged ions are called anions. Ions in ionic compounds are primarily held together by the electrostatic forces between the charge distribution of these bodies, and in particular the ionic bond resulting from the long-ranged Coulomb attraction between the net charge on anions and cations.
Ionic compounds without the acidic hydrogen ion (H +), or the basic ions hydroxide (OH −) or oxide (O 2−), are also known as salts and can be formed by acid-base reactions. Ionic compounds containing hydrogen ions are classified as acids and compounds containing hydroxide or oxide ions are classified as bases. Ions in ionic compounds are primarily held together by the electrostatic forces between the charge distribution of these bodies, and in particular the ionic bond resulting from the long-ranged Coulomb attraction between the net charge on anions and cations.
NH4Cl is an ionic compound, not a covalent one, because the NH4+ (ammonium) ion is combined with a chloride ion. Properties of Covalent Molecular Compounds. Low melting points and boiling points. Elemental Composition of Covalent Compounds. Compounds that contain both metals and nonmetals are usually ionic, not covalent. So KBr and Na. Properties of Covalent Molecular Compounds. 1 
Ionic compounds have strong forces between particles. Thus at room temperature, ionic compounds are generally 1. gases. 2. solids. 3. liquids. 4. covalently bonded. 
Individual ions within an ionic compound usually have multiple nearest neighbours, so are not considered to be part of molecules, but instead part of a continuous three-dimensional network, usually in a crystalline structure. Ionic compounds typically have high melting and boiling points, and are hard and brittle. As solids they are almost always electrically insulating, but when melted or dissolved they become highly conductive, because the ions are mobilized. Ions in ionic compounds are primarily held together by the electrostatic forces between the charge distribution of these bodies, and in particular the ionic bond resulting from the long-ranged Coulomb attraction between the net charge on anions and cations.