They are codominant, meaning that if you inherit one gene for each, your blood type will be AB, as will your genotype. In that case, both genes are being expressed together. Type O means you don't have either protein on your rbcs. Although type O is the most common type, it is a recessive characteristic. Therefore, a type O person's genotype must be OO. If you have type A blood but also carry a recessive gene for blood type, you are AO. Your phenotype is A, you have the type A protein on your rbc membranes, but you carry the gene for type O, which you can pass on to your children but which is not expressed in you
The “O” allele is recessive. Determining the Genotype The blood type gene has three different alleles: IAIA is Type A IAIB is Type AB IBIB results in Type B ii is Type O Determining the Genotype Scenario: Mom has the alleles IAIA for blood type and Dad has the alleles IBIB blood type. The “phenotype” is the visible properties of an organism. In this case, the A, B, and O allele combination a person has is their genotype Their blood type is their phenotype. Dominant vs. Recessive Genes The “A” allele is dominant and so is the “B” allele. Together though, the “A” and “B” alleles are co-dominant.
The allele i is recessive to I A and I B. Genotype Phenotype I A I A or I A i Type A blood I B I B or I B i Type B blood I A I B Type AB blood ii Type O blood Blood Types: If you are Type A, you have antigen A on your red blood cells. You also have antibody B in your blood plasma. 
Confidence votes 502. Blood type doesn't fall into the category of dominant/recessive genes exactly; rather it combines this with the properties of incomplete dominance. Ignoring the Rh factor, there are 3 alleles for blood type, I^a,I^b, and i. (i.e. Rr, R is the dominant gene) In blood type, A is dominant over O. So if a perso … n has Ao for their genes, they will have A type blood. A recessive gene will be hidden unless there are two of the same recessive gene. It is shown as a lowercase letter in the gene (i.e.
Some of these are glycoproteins that determine your blood type. The genes that code for these glycoproteins exhibit something called co-dominance where IA and IB are both equally dominant but O is still recessive. The genotype for blood type A is written as IAIA or IAi (where i is recessive). Blood type B is IBIB or IBi and blood type O is ii. But put IA and IB together and you get another blood type, AB, the co-dominant type, where neither the A or B is recessive to the other. 
O is the most recessive blood type. And RH-negative is  recessive. There are a limited number of Blood Type Combinations.  AA, AO, BB, BO, AB, OO. (i.e. Rr, R is the dominant gene) In blood type, A is dominant over O. So if a perso … n has Ao for their genes, they will have A type blood. A recessive gene will be hidden unless there are two of the same recessive gene. It is shown as a lowercase letter in the gene (i.e.
Therefore, a person possessing both A and O alleles will have a blood type of A. Likewise, a person with both B and O alleles will be blood type B because B is dominant, and therefore, masks the O allele. 
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics.
Rr, R is the dominant gene) In blood type, A is dominant over O. So if a perso … n has Ao for their genes, they will have A type blood. A recessive gene will be hidden unless there are two of the same recessive gene. (i.e. Rr, R is the dominant gene) In blood type, A is dominant over O. So if a perso … n has Ao for their genes, they will have A type blood. A recessive gene will be hidden unless there are two of the same recessive gene. It is shown as a lowercase letter in the gene (i.e.
The A and B alleles are dominant to the O allele. When both inherited alleles are O, the genotpye is homozygous recessive and the blood type is O. When one of the inherited alleles is A and the other is B, the genotype is heterozygous and the blood type is AB. AB blood type is an example of co-dominance since both traits are expressed equally. 1  Type A: The genotype is either AA or AO. 2  The antigens on the blood cell are A and the antibodies in the blood plasma are B. 3  Type B: The genotype is either BB or BO.