Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Most sedimentary rocks contain either quartz (especially siliciclastic rocks) or calcite (especially carbonate rocks). In contrast to igneous and metamorphic rocks, a sedimentary rock usually contains very few different major minerals.
Chemical sedimentary rocks, such as rock salt, iron ore, chert, flint, some dolomites, and some limestones, form when dissolved materials precipitate from solution. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant debris. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of sediments. There are three basic types of sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks such as breccia, conglomerate, sandstone, siltstone, and shale are formed from mechanical weathering debris.
Picture Gallery of the Most Common Rock Types. Breccia is a clastic sedimentary rock that is composed of large (over two millimeter diameter) angular fragments. The spaces between the large fragments can be filled with a matrix of smaller particles or a mineral cement which binds the rock together. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of sediments. There are three basic types of sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks such as breccia, conglomerate, sandstone, siltstone, and shale are formed from mechanical weathering debris.
The chalk used in classrooms around the world is a type of sedimentary rock. Limestone is a sedimen … tary rock that is used in concrete, building stones, antacids, soil conditioner, and steel making. Coal is another sedimentary rock which is used to produce heat and electricity. Shale is used to make brick. 1 Sandstone and limestone are used as building stone and in the production of glass. 2  Limestone is also used for hard core in roads, and is cooked to make cement. 3  Shale is mixed with sand and used to make bricks.
The chalk used in classrooms around the world is a type of sedimentary rock. Limestone is a sedimentary rock that is used in concrete, building stones, antacids, soil conditioner, and steel making. Coal is another sedimentary rock which is used to produce heat and electricity. Shale is used to make bri
Sedimentary Rocks. Sedimentary rocks are rocks composed of sediment. Sediment is deposited in a number of environments of deposition, by both moving air and moving water. Sedimentary rock identification is primarily based on composition. Texture will still be used but in a different sense than for igneous rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks contain clasts. These are fragments or pieces of rock or minerals. The composition of clastic sedimentary rocks is divided into three types-clay/silt, sand and gravel. Clay and silt are less than 1/16 mm. These are not visible to the unaided eye.
Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest. Most sedimentary rocks contain either quartz (especially siliciclastic rocks) or calcite (especially carbonate rocks). In contrast to igneous and metamorphic rocks, a sedimentary rock usually contains very few different major minerals.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Most sedimentary rocks contain either quartz (especially siliciclastic rocks) or calcite (especially carbonate rocks). In contrast to igneous and metamorphic rocks, a sedimentary rock usually contains very few different major minerals.
Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) exposed at the Earth's surface can become a sedimentary rock. The forces of wind, rain, snow, and ice combine to break down or dissolve (weather), and carry away (transport) rocks exposed at the surface. 
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Most sedimentary rocks contain either quartz (especially siliciclastic rocks) or calcite (especially carbonate rocks). In contrast to igneous and metamorphic rocks, a sedimentary rock usually contains very few different major minerals.