Overview. Mulching over freshly planted grass seed with a light blanket of straw or hay can be beneficial for a bevy of reasons. Straw can hold the seed in place in windy climes and prevent birds from making off with the seed. It can also keep needed moisture in the soil to aid in germination and prevent opportunistic weed seeds from landing on the richly prepared soil of the seed bed. Step 3. Lift half of the straw from the seed bed when the green grass blades reach roughly 2 inches in height. This can be raked up very gently with a flexible tine rake or by hand. Be careful not to rip or pull the young grass blades.
One of the goals when planting a new lawn is keeping the grass seed in place until it germinates and establishes a root system to anchor it to the soil. Application. Because straw is seedless, it doesn't introduce weeds into the new lawn, and also helps discourage other weeds that may try to germinate. It should not be applied too thickly, as it will defeat its own purpose and prevent the grass seed from growing.
I had a new patio put in my back yard and it is surrounded by about 4' to 10' of new soil. It's a fairly large area including the part where the machinery tore up the lawn. The landscaper put down some grass seed and covered it with hay or straw. He said to just leave it and it will disappear when it gets mowed. It's about two weeks old now and is actually coming in very nicely all things considered. I have a couple of questions.
Straw is preferred to hay as a grass seed mulch because of its lower seed content. Straw is made of the stems of grass plants, while hay contains the stem plus the flowers and seeds. Still, straw will contain some amount of seed from farm grasses and weeds. These plants are undesirable in a new lawn. Removing the straw mulch from the grass seed sooner may lessen the amount of weeds that germinate, although most of the seed content has likely reached the soil in the first few days. First Cutting of a New Lawn. Until grass seedlings are 2 to 3 inches in tall, they should remain covered by a straw mulch and foot traffic should be avoided. Grass seedlings will typically take from three to five weeks to reach this height, although it may be different depending on weather condition
Straw protects grass seed from the environment. If a hot, dry summer has left your lawn scorched and prickly, buy a bag of grass seed and a bale of straw. Grass seed is much less expensive than sod and can produce a lush lawn if you plan carefully. Place the bale of straw on top and break it up with a pitchfork. Grab a handful at a time and loosely shake it over the grass seed. You want the straw to barely cover the ground -- no more than 1/4 inch deep.
Straw is preferred over hay because of its lower seed content. Straw also holds moisture and keeps the grass seeds and seedlings from drying out. Until established, grass seed or plants will die if allowed to dry completely. First Cutting of a New Lawn. Until grass seedlings are 2 to 3 inches in tall, they should remain covered by a straw mulch and foot traffic should be avoided. Grass seedlings will typically take from three to five weeks to reach this height, although it may be different depending on weather conditions
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 
Best Answer: 1 week. If you leave the straw on to long it will not grow right it will grow in patches unless it is creeping grass. Don't listen to the third commit not a good idea. Source(s): Poxy · 9 years ago.