Sheep brains do not have as many ridges and contours when compared to human brains, that have a considerable number of ridges and contours to give them an apparently much larger area than the sheep’s brain. However, there are several differences in human and sheep brains, but almost all mammals brains are similar. The human brain of an adult weighs about 1,300 to 1,400 grams, and in length is almost 15 cm long. A sheep’s brain is elongated in shape, whereas a human brain is rounded. The human brain stem is towards the backbone and downwards, because in the human body the backbone is vertical; compared to a sheep’s backbone which is horizontal, and its brain is directed outwards. The human brain, when compared to the sheep’s brain, has a much larger frontal lobe. Summary: 1. The human brain is heavier and longer than a sheep’s brain. 2. The sheep’s brain has a more developed olfactory bulb when compared to the human brain. 3.
The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe. The sheep's brain has a smaller cerebellum (lesser motor  control/less complex learned motor behaviors).    There is a larger pineal gland in sheep (related to circadian  rhythms/seasonal reproduction).
A sheep is a mammal of whom the structure and function of the brain is similar to a human brain. Compared to the human cortex-the outer layer of the brain-, the sheep brain has a smaller cortex. The sheep brain is small and weighs less. And, it is elongated in shape. The human brain, which is the most complicated of all brains, is certainly different from the brains of other animals. Sheep is an animal whose brain is noticeably similar to the human brain, yet there are some distinct differences between the two. For one, the sheep does not have the ability to think, and that simply makes their brain less efficient than the human brain
The human brain is larger. The positioning of the hind brain is different, due to the erect position of humans. Convolutions are increased in humans (increases surface area). The sheep's brain has a smaller cerebellum (lesser motor control/less complex learned motor behaviors). There is a larger pineal gland in sheep (related to circadian rhythms/seasonal reproduction)
The difference between a sheep and human mammillary body in the  brain is that in humans there are two lobes in a sheep there is one  lobe. 1 person found this useful. The positioning of the hind brain is different, due to the erect position of humans. Convolutions are increased in humans (increases surface area). The sheep's brain has a smaller cerebellum (lesser motor control/less complex learned motor behaviors).
The human brain is divided into two hemispheres while the sheep brain is not. Further, the human brain is again divided into four lobes based on function and such lobes are not seen on a sheep brain. Speaking of the function of the brain, the human brain has a broader capacity to function than a sheep brain. The human brain, which is the most complicated of all brains, is certainly different from the brains of other animals. Sheep is an animal whose brain is noticeably similar to the human brain, yet there are some distinct differences between the two. For one, the sheep does not have the ability to think, and that simply makes their brain less efficient than the human
Convolutions are increased in humans (inc … reases surface area).    The sheep's brain has a smaller cerebellum (lesser motor  control/less complex learned motor behaviors).    There is a larger pineal gland in sheep (related to circadian  rhythms/seasonal reproduction).
Similarities: two hemispheres, two brain stems, two optic nerves, two pons Differences: size, functions, more ridges and surface area, human brain is rounded where the sheep brain is elognated in shape, human's brain can think, write, bend, invent, and create. How are each of these lobes different/similar in size when compared to the human brain. The sheep's brain is more long than it is wide and the human brain is more wide than long. If you viewed the human parietal from the side it appears more condensed and longer than what the sheep's would look like.