An adjective phrase can be an attributive adjective or a predicative adjective. Attributive Adjective. An attributive adjective is one that sits inside the noun phrase of the noun it modifies. Look at these two examples: When an adjective appears before its noun, it is very likely to be an attributive adjective. However, an adjective that appears after its noun can also be attributive. Predicative Adjective. A predicative adjective sits outside the noun phrase of the noun it modifies.
Adjective phrase. -. A word group that has an adjective as its head is called an adjective phrase. Note that the adjective in this phrase may be accompanied by other words such as determiners, modifiers etc. Adjective phrases can go before a noun (attributive position). They can also go after a linking verb like be (predicative position). Note that the adjective in an adjective phrase may be modified by an adverb. When it is modified by an adverb, the adverb goes before the adjective. The adjective may also be modified by other determiners like articles, possessives and demonstratives.
1 An adjective phrase consists of an adjective which may be preceded and/or followed by other words. 2  The premodifier is always an adverb phrase, but the post-modifiers can be an adverb phrase, a prepositional phrase, or even a clause. 1 Noun Phrases and Adjective Phrases.  2 There may be very little difference between a noun phrase and an adjective phrase in structures where the adjectives occur before the word it qualifies. 3  Most noun phrases consist of a head noun plus one or more adjectives, or indeed an adjective phrase itself.
An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase whose head word is an adjective, e.g. fond of steak, very happy, quite upset about it, etc. 
Search. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold: When an adjective appears before its noun, it is very likely to be an attributive adjective. However, an adjective that appears after its noun can also be attributive. Predicative Adjective. A predicative adjective sits outside the noun phrase of the noun it modifies.
To determine if a prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase : 1) Find the object of the preposition (the noun or pronoun that follows the preposition). 2) Ask yourself which other word in the sentence is related to this noun or pronoun by the preposition. If the other word is a noun or pronoun, then the prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase. Examples of The Adjective Phrase: telling us the relationship between the class and the announcement. Announcement is a noun, so this is an. .
An adjective phrase is a group of words that describe a noun or pronoun in a sentence. The adjective phrase can be placed before, or after, the noun or pronoun in the sentence. 
An adverb phrase is simply two or more words that act as an adverb. It can modify a verb, adverb, or adjective and can tell “how”, “where”, “why”, or “when.”. An adverb clause which also modifies verbs, adverbs and adjectives; but, an adverb clause also includes a subject and a verb. 