Dry ice, sometimes referred to as  cardice  (chiefly British chemists), is the solid form of carbon dioxide. It is used primarily as a cooling agent. Its advantages include lower temperature than that of water ice and not leaving any residue (other than incidental frost from moisture in the atmosphere). As a result, the extreme cold causes the liquid to solidify into a snow-like consistency. Finally, the snow-like solid carbon dioxide is compressed into either small pellets or larger blocks of dry ice.
The Web's leading source of Information about Dry Ice For locations to buy dry ice & Storage Containers Dry Ice is frozen carbon dioxide, a normal part of our earth's atmosphere. It is the gas that we exhale during breathing and the gas that plants use in photosynthesis. 
The drying process for doing laundry at home is either hanging clothes on a clothesline or tumbling them in a gas-or electric-heated dryer. Dry cleaning, on the other hand, is different. It's a process that cleans clothes without water. The cleaning fluid that is used is a liquid, and all garments are immersed and cleaned in a liquid solvent -- the fact that there is no water is why the process is called dry..
Dry cleaning is any cleaning process for clothing and textiles using a chemical solvent other than water. The solvent used is typically tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene), which the industry calls perc or PERC. It is used to clean delicate fabrics that cannot withstand the rough and tumble of a washing machine and clothes dryer; it can also eliminate labor-intensive hand washing. A dry-cleaning machine is similar to a combination of a domestic washing machine and clothes dryer. Garments are placed in the washing or extraction chamber (referred to as the basket or drum), which constitutes the core of the machine.
Dry ice is the solid form of carbon dioxide (chemical formula CO 2), comprising two oxygen atoms bonded to a single carbon atom. As a result, the extreme cold causes the liquid to solidify into a snow-like consistency. Finally, the snow-like solid carbon dioxide is compressed into either small pellets or larger blocks of dry ice.
Answer: Dry ice is the common name for the solid form of carbon dioxide. Originally the term ' dry ice ' was a trademark for the solid carbon dioxide produced by Prest Air Devices (1925), but now it refers to any solid carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is a natural component of air. Dry ice is safe to use for smoke machines and lab experiments, providing care is taken to avoid frostbite. When the pressure is released, some of the liquid will transition into a gas, cooling some of the liquid into dry ice frost or snow, which can be collected and pressed into pellets or blocks. This is similar to what happens when you get frost on the nozzle of a CO 2 fire extinguisher.
syn: dry, arid both mean without moisture. dry is the general word indicating absence of water or freedom from moisture, which may be favorable or unfavorable: a dry well; a dry bath towel. arid suggests intense dryness in a region or climate, resulting in bareness or in barrenness: arid tracts of desert. 2. having or characterized by little or no rain: the dry season. 3. characterized by absence, deficiency, or failure of natural or ordinary moisture. 4. not under, in, or on water: to be on dry land. 5. not now containing or yielding water or other liquid; depleted or empty of liquid: The well is dry.
dry. 1. free from moisture or excess moisture; not moist; not wet. 2. having or characterized by little or no rain: the dry season. 3. characterized by absence, deficiency, or failure of natural or ordinary moisture. 4. not under, in, or on water: to be on dry land. 5. not now containing or yielding water or other liquid; depleted or empty of liquid: The well is dry.
In addition, inflammation of the surface of the eye may occur along with dry eye. If left untreated, this condition can lead to pain, ulcers, or scars on the cornea, and some loss of vision. However, permanent loss of vision from dry eye is uncommon. Dry eye can make it more difficult to perform some activities, such as using a computer or reading for an extended period of time, and it can decrease tolerance for dry environments, such as the air inside an airplane.