For example, in the retort we operate, the first cremation of the day takes about two hours and the second takes about an hour. That is because the retort already has a high internal temperature at the beginning of the second cremation. Hmmm. From less than one hour to three hours. 
The casket or container is placed in the cremation chamber, where the temperature is raised to approximately 1400 degrees to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. After approximately, 2 to 2 1/2 hours, all organic matter is consumed by heat or evaporation. The residue which is left is bone fragments, known as cremated remains. Yes, the body is exposed to direct heat and flame. Cremation is performed by placing the deceased in a casket or other container and then placing the casket or container into a cremation chamber or retort, where they are subjected to intense heat and flame. Faq's Type: Cremation.
Here’s a video showing the cremation of human body. During incineration, the body is exposed to a column of flames produced by a furnace fueled by natural gas, oils, propane, etc. As the corpse is placed in a casket or container (preferably prepared from a combustible material), the container burns down. On an average, it takes about one to three hours to cremate a human body, thereby reducing it to 3-7 pounds of cremains. The cremation remains are usually pasty white in color. These remains are transferred in a cremation urn and given to the relative or representative of the deceased.
Cremation of a dead body is carried out at a temperature ranging between 1400 to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. The intense heat helps reduce the body to its basic elements and dried bone fragments. On an average, it takes about one to three hours to cremate a human body, thereby reducing it to 3-7 pounds of cremains. The cremation remains are usually pasty white in color. These remains are transferred in a cremation urn and given to the relative or representative of the deceased.
The Cremation Process. Cremation is a method of converting a body to basic elements via heat. During cremation, the body is placed in a large special purpose kiln for several hours where the temperature is raised to approximately 2,000 degrees. 
The casket or container is placed in the cremation chamber, where the temperature is raised to approximately 1400 degrees to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. After approximately 2 to 2 1/2 hours, all organic matter is consumed by heat or evaporation. 
The time required for cremation varies from body to body, and, in modern furnaces, the process may be as fast as one hour per 50 kg (100 lb) of body weight. A cremator is not designed to cremate more than one human body at a time; cremation of multiple bodies is illegal in the United States and many other countries. Ashes of adults can be said to weigh from 4 pounds (1.8 kg) to 6 pounds (2.7 kg), but the first figure is roughly the figure for women, and the second, for men. The mean weight of adult cremated remains in a Florida, U.S. sample was 5.3 lb (approx. 2.4 kg) for adults (range 2 to 8 lb or 0.91 to 3.63 kg).
Answer: The casket or container is placed in the cremation chamber, where the temperature is raised to approximately 1400 to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. After approximately 2 to 2 1/2 hours, all organic matter is consumed by heat or evaporation. The remaining bone fragments are known as cremated remains (or cremains). 
The duration of a cremation process usually depends on certain factors. They are: 1  weight or size of the body. 2  percentage of body fat to lean muscle mass. 3  the performance of cremation equipments used. 4  operating temperature of the cremation chamber. 5  the type of cremation container or casket in which the body is placed. On an average, it takes about one to three hours to cremate a human body, thereby reducing it to 3-7 pounds of cremains. The cremation remains are usually pasty white in color. These remains are transferred in a cremation urn and given to the relative or representative of the deceased.
For example, in the retort we operate, the first cremation of the day takes about two hours and the second takes about an hour. That is because the retort already has a high internal temperature at the beginning of the second cremation. 