A muffler is an important component of an engine's exhaust system. The muffler is found near the back of a vehicle, and its purpose is to reduce the noise produced from the exhaust process.
Mufflers cancel out most of an engine's noise. ­. ­If you've ever heard a car engine running without a muffler, you know what a huge difference a muffler can make to the noise level. Inside a muffler, you'll find a deceptively simple set of tubes with some holes in them. These tubes and chambers are actuall­y as finely tuned as a musical instrument.
How to Know When a Muffler Is Broken. A muffler is an important component of an engine's exhaust system. The muffler is found near the back of a vehicle, and its purpose is to reduce the noise produced from the exhaust process. It also directs the exhaust gases safely out the vehicle's system.
Flowmaster exhaust systems and Magnaflow mufflers, for instance, are known for delivering massive boosts in power and performance. Also, you want to choose a muffler or exhaust system based on the needs of your specific vehicle.
The exhaust system without a muffler would turn your car into a loud, resonating machine, amplifying the powerful sound waves created by exhaust gases coming out of the cylinder chambers after the combustion process. Thanks to the muffler, though, you can drive down the road with a minimum of noise pollution.
Muffler Styles. There are many different types of mufflers out there, each suited to different performance and sound tastes. If you want a blazing hot sound with a straight-through design that minimizes backpressure, go with a glasspack muffler like the Cherry Bomb Glass Pack.
The faster your engine can get rid of exhaust gases, the faster it can take in fresh oxygen and generate more power. Therefore, efficient exhaust flow is essential to power output. Performance enthusiasts generally don't love mufflers, because by design they create some degree of restriction in the exhaust system. But alas, you can't just go out on the highway without a muffler-state and local laws govern sound levels, and mufflers are necessary in order to stay street legal.