From Fanlore. A doujinka (同人家) is someone who creates doujinshi. This can involve drawing, writing, editing, and putting together a doujinshi volume. A circle is a group of doujinka working together, though sometimes the group consists of only one person. The term doujinshika (同人誌家) is occasionally used instead of doujinka, in both Japanese and English.
1 Sunao Minakata, the illustrator of Akuma no Riddle is a regular doujinka, especially in girls' love theme. 2  Usually makes Touhou dōjinshi and has collaborated with other known-for-Touhou-works-popular artists, such as Banpai Akira. Since the 1980s, the main method of distribution has been through regular dōjinshi conventions, the largest of which is called Comiket (short for Comic Market) held in the summer and winter in Tokyo 's Big Sight. At the convention, over 20 acres (81,000 m 2) of dōjinshi are bought, sold, and traded by attendees.
This is partly true: dōjinshi are often, though not always, parodies or alternative storylines involving the worlds of popular manga, game or anime series, and can often feature overtly sexual material. Since the 1980s, the main method of distribution has been through regular dōjinshi conventions, the largest of which is called Comiket (short for Comic Market) held in the summer and winter in Tokyo 's Big Sight. At the convention, over 20 acres (81,000 m 2) of dōjinshi are bought, sold, and traded by attendees.
Dōjinshi (同人誌, often transliterated as doujinshi) is the Japanese term for self-published works, usually magazines, manga or novels. Dōjinshi are often the work of amateurs, though some professional artists participate as a way to publish material outside the regular industry. Since the 1980s, the main method of distribution has been through regular dōjinshi conventions, the largest of which is called Comiket (short for Comic Market) held in the summer and winter in Tokyo 's Big Sight. At the convention, over 20 acres (81,000 m 2) of dōjinshi are bought, sold, and traded by attendees.
2015 AN-JCCC Halloween and Doujinka Festival Table Registration Open. Wednesday, 22 July 2015 22:46. Vendor and Doujinka Table registration is now open for the 2015 AN-JCCC Halloween and Doujinka Festival. Table availability on a first come first served basis. To make it easier to identify between the vendors and artist communication, please make sure put the following tags in the subject line. Toronto Japanese Film Festival-June 11-26. Saturday, 30 May 2015 03:39. The Japanese Canadian Cultural Center presents the 2015 Toronto Japanese Film Festival, running from June 11-26 with 19 new films, including the award-winning anime film Giovanni's Island on Saturday, June 13th, co-presented by Anime North.
4,286 pages on this wiki. Doujinshi (同人誌, translated as magazine of same-minded people) is a term for self-published manga that are created by doujinka, which means doujinshi writer in Japanese. Some doujinshi are also created by doujin circles. Doujinshis' are sometimes sold online and they can be sold at an anime convention. 
A doujinshi circle (同人誌サークル), commonly shortened to just circle (サークル), is a group which creates doujinshi. People who are in a circle are called doujinka. The term group can be misleading since circles can consist of only one doujinka. In Japanese fandom, one-person doujinshi efforts are often called kojin circles (個人サークル) or personal circles, and their products are sometimes referred to as kojinshi (個人誌). These terms have not carried over to English-speaking fandom. A circle might be similar to a  publisher  in zine fandom; in doujinshi fandom, however, publisher refers to the commercial printing company which print and bind the doujinshi.