Canadian citizens using Canadian passports do not require a visa to enter Malta for tourism or business stays under ninety (90) days. Nationals of the following countries do not need a visa to enter Malta: Apply IN PERSON at the nearest consulate for the Schengen Zone visa. This country is a signatory of the Schengen area Agreement on border control and visa standardization. The application for a Schengen area visa is the same for all members.
Nationals of some countries can visit Malta for up to three months without a visa, these are listed at the website of the Malta Ministry Of Foreign Affairs. All Non EU Nationals require a work permit to work in Malta. 
Malta visa for citizens of Canada is required. For more information please contact the nearest Malta embassy. Passport back in my hands with a whole lot of visas in it. Pretty awesome service from @visahq. Highly recommended. 1 We recommend that you have at least two free pages in Visas section of your passport before any international travel. 2  Canadian citizens cannot add extra passport pages to their passports. 3  Please refer to www.passport.gc.ca for forms and instructions for Canadian passport renewals.
EU nationals are not required to possess a return ticket or show sufficient funds. Visas : Visas for Malta are not required by all nationals referred to in the chart above. Australian, Canadian and US nationals may stay without a visa for up to 90 days. EU nationals may stay for an unlimited period, but must register with the local authorities after three months. 
If you are a European Union national, you do not need a visa if you’re staying in Malta for up to 3 months. Same goes for nationals of Australia, Canada, Croatia, Iceland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland and the United States of America. There are other countries in addition to the above, that do not need a visa. For a full list of countries that do not require a visa and those who indeed do need a visa, visit the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website here. Note: It is recommended that you always check with the Maltese Ministry of Foreign Affairs website for the latest visa updates, since things may change from time to time.
The Maltese authorities issue the work permit in Malta against a small payment usually paid by the employer. At present, citizens of the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand require a passport, but no visa, for a stay of up to three months as a tourist. South African citizens require a Schengen visa in addition to a valid passport. Travellers should also have sufficient money available for self-maintenance during the period of their stay. Malta became a member state of the EU in May 2004, so nationals with passports issued by EU countries do not need a Visa to visit Malta.
All other nationalities need a visa. Apply IN PERSON at the nearest consulate for the Schengen Zone visa. This country is a signatory of the Schengen area Agreement on border control and visa standardization. The application for a Schengen area visa is the same for all members.
Good Things Happen Daily! Malta Visa Requirements: Maltese visa application form information on Malta visas for travel, tourist visa, visitor / transit visa, student visa. Maltese embassy address, information on Malta immigration procedures for US citizens, Canadians, Indians, Australians, UK, EU citizens. Malta Visa Information. Learn4good provides general information on study, travel, work visa and business visa requirements and the addresses of embassies worldwide. You should contact your local embassy or consulate for the most up-to-date information or visa forms.