1 – Can be acellular (fungi) or cellular (bacteria, protists, fungi) – Cellular forms can be prokaryotes (bacteria) or eukaryotes (protists and fungi) – Unicellular, or form colonies of similar cells, or are made of primitive tissue. 1 1. Module Two: Life at a Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Level Paper One. 2  2. • Owing to evolution, we have a large diversity of life on planet Earth. 3  The earliest organisms that were thought to have developed were viruses, protists, bacteria and fungi. 4  These are the organisms we will be focussing on.
Amoxicillin, penicillin, and erythromycin are common antibiotics that inhibit bacterial cell functions. Antibiotics are derived primarily from bacteria or fungi (mold), such as Penicillium. Antibiotics don't work exclusively against bacteria: some 'broad-spectrum' ones are also effective against protists. Malaria is a disease caused by protozoa that are carried by certain mosquitoes. Antibiotics, such as doxycycline, can be used in both treatment and prevention of malaria. Some protists, such as euglena or volvox (a type of algae), use chloroplasts to generate energy through photosynthesis similar to the way plants do. Euglenas also serve as decomposers, by feeding off dead organisms.
These protist producers are known as algae. Most algae have other pigments that give them a color. Most algae live in water. Algae. All algae have the green pigment chlorophyll, which is used for making food. Most algae have other pigments that give them a color. Most algae live in water. Yeasts are single-celled sac fungi. When they reproduce asexually, they use a process called budding. In budding a new cell pinches off from an existing cell. Yeasts use sugar as food and produce carbon dioxide gas and alcohol as waste. Trapped bubbles of carbon dioxide cause the bread to rise.
Penicillium (/ˌpɛnɪˈsɪlɪəm/) is a genus of ascomycetous fungi of major importance in the natural environment as well as food and drug production. Some members of the genus produce penicillin, a molecule that is used as an antibiotic, which kills or stops the growth of certain kinds of bacteria inside the body. Penicillium is classified as a genus of: domain eukaryota, kingdom Fungi, division Ascomycota (order Eurotiales, class Eurotiomycetes, family Trichocomaceae).
SECTION 2 Protists 355 Protists in the Environment Algae areimportant as food for animals that live in lakes,rivers, oceans, and other bodies of water.Diatoms and one-celled green algae are eaten byprotozoans and other small animals. Compare and Contrast Make a chart compar-ing and contrasting club fungi, sac fungi,zygospore fungi, and imperfect fungi. 24. Make a Poster Find or draw pictures on aposter to show the importance of bacteria,protists, or fungi to life on Earth.
Beta-Lactam. Beta-lactam antibiotics kill bacteria that are surrounded by a cell wall. Bacteria build cell walls by linking molecules together—beta-lactams block this process. Without support from a cell wall, pressure inside the cell becomes too much and the membrane bursts. The discovery of the antibiotic penicillin in the 1920s made a big impact on human history. Not only did it lead to a cure for bacterial infections that were once deadly, but it also led a big interest in finding new antibiotics.
Antibiotics kill bacteria, not archaea, fungi, or protists. The discovery of the antibiotic penicillin in the 1920s made a big impact on human history. Not only did it lead to a cure for bacterial infections that were once deadly, but it also led a big interest in finding new antibiotics.
The antibiotic penicillin works by keeping a bacterium from building a cell wall. Bacteria and human cells also differ in the structure of their cell membranes and the machinery they use to build proteins or copy DNA. Some antibiotics dissolve the membrane of just bacterial cells. The discovery of the antibiotic penicillin in the 1920s made a big impact on human history. Not only did it lead to a cure for bacterial infections that were once deadly, but it also led a big interest in finding new antibiotics.
Eating habits amongst protozoans vary, too. Some protists, such as euglena or volvox (a type of algae), use chloroplasts to generate energy through photosynthesis similar to the way plants do. Euglenas also serve as decomposers, by feeding off dead organisms.
Viruses, bacteria, protists & fungi (just the basics!)- parasites postponed until we discuss them in class.I. Viruses:- A virus is a short piece of DNA or RNA, sometimes with some associated enzymes. 