The Yellowstone Caldera is located in Yellowstone National Park. It is a volcano, and its features measure approximately 35 miles wide by 50 miles long. Both rhyolitic and basaltic lava flows have been found in the  Yellowstone Caldera. There are alro large deposits of rhyolitic  tuff. Edit. Share to: 1  10 Reasons to Visit Yellowstone National Park Yellowstone National Park was established by the US Government in 1872, making it the worlds' first
The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera and supervolcano located in Yellowstone National Park in the United States, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano. The caldera and most of the park are located in the northwest corner of Wyoming. Diagram of the Yellowstone Caldera. The last full-scale eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano, the Lava Creek eruption which happened nearly 640,000 years ago, ejected approximately 240 cubic miles (1,000 km 3) of rock, dust and volcanic ash into the sky.
CALDERAS. When an erupting volcano empties a shallow-level magma chamber, the edifice of the volcano may collapse into the voided reservoir, thus forming a steep, bowl-shaped depression called a caldera (Spanish for kettle or cauldron). These features are highly variable in size, ranging from 1-100 km in diameter. 
Confidence votes 77.6K. At Yellowstone, we see the caldera or what we call a supervolcano. The volcanic profile of Yellowstone in its past is one of a massive eruption that dwarfs anything we understand in current knowledge. Use the link below to the Wikipedia post on the supervolcano to learn more. One of only a dozen super volcanos in the world. When super volcanos explode it changes life on earth. The last time one went off was Mt. Toba 70,000 years ago. In more te … chnical terms, the Yellowstone volcano is a caldera.
Stresses in the crust produce movements on faults, causing earthquakes to occur. Thousands of small quakes are recorded each year by the seismographic network of the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO), a partnership of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), the University of Utah, and Yellowstone National Park. Each of Yellowstone’s explosive caldera-forming eruptions occurred when large volumes of “rhyolitic” magma accumulated at shallow levels in the Earth’s crust, as little as 3 miles (5 km) below the surface.
Caldera Volcanoes. View a satellite map of the Yellowstone Caldera. Caldera volcanoes are the Extreme Volcanoes. These are the most powerful and catastrophic types of volcanoes in a category by themselves because of the unique way in which they form. This type of volcano is shaped more like an inverse volcano. An enormous magma chamber bulges up beneath the ground from the extremely high pressures of the trapped gases within.
Non-explosive eruptions of lava and less-violent explosive eruptions have occurred in and near the Yellowstone caldera since the last supereruption. The most recent lava flow occurred about 70,000 years ago, while a violent eruption excavated the West Thumb of Lake Yellowstone around 150,000 years ago. Diagram of the Yellowstone Caldera. The last full-scale eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano, the Lava Creek eruption which happened nearly 640,000 years ago, ejected approximately 240 cubic miles (1,000 km 3) of rock, dust and volcanic ash into the sky.