The Integrated Truss Structure (ITS) of the International Space Station (ISS) consists of a linearly arranged sequence of connected trusses on which various unpressurized components are mounted, such as logistics carriers, radiators, solar arrays, and other equipment. It supplies the ISS with a bus architecture. 
Truss. Thus, for the most part, all beams in a truss bridge are straight. Trusses are comprised of many small beams that together can support a large amount of weight and span great distances. In most cases the design, fabrication, and erection of trusses is relatively simple
The Vierendeel truss is a structure where the members are not triangulated but form rectangular openings, and is a frame with fixed joints that are capable of transferring and resisting bending moments. A truss can be thought of as a beam where the web consists of a series of separate members instead of a continuous plate. In the truss, the lower horizontal member (the bottom chord) and the upper horizontal member (the top chord) carry tension and compression, fulfilling the same function as the flanges of an I-beam.
The top beams in a truss are called top chords and are typically in compression, the bottom beams are called bottom chords and are typically in tension, the interior beams are called webs, and the areas inside the webs are called panels. A truss can be thought of as a beam where the web consists of a series of separate members instead of a continuous plate. In the truss, the lower horizontal member (the bottom chord) and the upper horizontal member (the top chord) carry tension and compression, fulfilling the same function as the flanges of an I-beam.
In this type of truss structure, a series of two or three dimensional trusses is used to give the tower more stability and make it less prone to bending as it reaches greater heights. Electrical towers, bridge supports, or scaffolding can all be constructed as truss towers. These features of triangles make the truss structure common in engineering and architecture. A bridge is a common type of truss structure. Many bridges utilize a series of simple trusses as a part of their design, either along the sides, the bottom, or on towers to hold the bridge up at strategic intervals.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Any structure that uses trusses in its design can be called a truss structure. Trusses are triangular or pyramidal shapes that are used in the structure of buildings in order to make them more stable than structural components with 90 degree angles could. These features of triangles make the truss structure common in engineering and architecture. A bridge is a common type of truss structure. Many bridges utilize a series of simple trusses as a part of their design, either along the sides, the bottom, or on towers to hold the bridge up at strategic intervals.
In engineering, a truss is a structure that consists of two-force members only, where the members are organized so that the assemblage as a whole behaves as a single object. A two-force member is a structural component where force is applied to only two points. A truss can be thought of as a beam where the web consists of a series of separate members instead of a continuous plate. In the truss, the lower horizontal member (the bottom chord) and the upper horizontal member (the top chord) carry tension and compression, fulfilling the same function as the flanges of an I-beam.
Analysis of Truss Structures Definition of a Truss A truss is a structure composed of slender members joined together at their end points. Planar trusses lie in a single plane.Typically, the joint connections are formed by bolting or welding the end members together to a common plate, called a gusset plate. 
truss. A structure composed of a combination of members (such as chords, 1, diagonals, and web members), usually in some triangular arrangement so as to constitute a rigid framework. See king-post truss, plated truss, queen-post truss, Vierendeel truss; also see bowstring beam. truss. in architecture and engineering, a supporting structure or framework composed of beams, girders, or rods commonly of steel or wood lying in a single plane. A truss usually takes the form of a triangle or combination of triangles, since this design ensures the greatest rigidity.