Abiotic Diseases Of Woody Ornamentals. Biotic diseases involve fungi, bacteria, viruses, nematodes, etc., and abiotic diseases involve non-living things. Of the two major types of disease, abiotic diseases are by far the most important ones on landscape and nursery plants. This example shows the complexity of abiotic disease diagnosis. Because ABIOTIC diseases are the ones that occur most frequently on plants in the landscape, it is critical that landscapers, nurserymen, and grounds maintenance personnel develop the skills and experience needed to diagnose them.
“Plant diseases generally are classified as either biotic (caused by a pathogenic parasite) or abiotic (caused by environmental conditions such wind, water, and temperature, or genetic disorders). Some of the common abiotic diseases include water stress (surplus or too little), hail damage, animals, herbicide damage, and genetic disorders.
These are a few examples of abiotic diseases. Some requirement of the plant is not met and the result is a decline in plant health. Determining exactly which requirement is not being met demands that all the symptoms be noted and that the plant site be carefully examined. This example shows the complexity of abiotic disease diagnosis. Because ABIOTIC diseases are the ones that occur most frequently on plants in the landscape, it is critical that landscapers, nurserymen, and grounds maintenance personnel develop the skills and experience needed to diagnose them.
Distinguishing Abiotic and Biotic Plant Problems. It is sometimes difficult to determine whether an environmental stress, insect, mite, chemical, or infectious plant pathogen is the cause of a plant problem. The infectious causes are classified as biotic (living) causes of plant problems. They include (but are not limited to) insects, mites, and disease pathogens. Environmental stresses, such as temperature injury and water or nutrient stress, are abiotic (nonliving) factors that may affect plant health. 
Abiotic agents of disease are non-living factors such as soil compaction, spring frosts, hail, and lawnmower damage to tree trunks. Abiotic agents are noninfectious and non-transmissible. Plant diseases deriving from these agents have been referred to as physiological diseases or environmental diseases. A plant disease is usually defined as abnormal growth and/or dysfunction of a plant. Diseases are the result of some disturbance in the normal life process of the plant. Diseases may be the result of living and/or non-living causes. Biotic diseases are caused by living organisms such as fungi, bacteria, and viruses.
Plants are subject to two types of disorders: 1  Abiotic or non-infectious disorders; caused by environmental, cultural, and non-living things. 2  Biotic, infectious or pathogenic diseases; caused by living pathogenic microorganisms such as fungi, bacteria, viruses, or nematodes. The misapplication of fertilizers is also a common cultural practice that causes abiotic disorders. Underfertilization can lead to nutrient-starved plants which appear sickly and may be more susceptible to biotic diseases. Overfertilization can led to nutrient imbalances and high levels of salt in the soil.
1 Abiotic damage does not spread from plant to plant over time. 2  Biotic diseases can spread throughout one plant and also may spread to neighboring plants of the same species. 3  Wind-blown rain is a common way for disease agents to spread from plant to plant. 1 Abiotic damage often occurs on many plant species. 2  Drought stress or chemical drift will likely cause damage on several types of plants in a yard or garden. 3  In contrast, biotic disease problems are more limited to a certain species.
Abiotic diseases are the result of the interaction, over an extended period of time, between the plant and one or more factors such as lack of space for root growth, the presence of chronic or acute levels of air or water pollutants, or the presence of extremes of moisture, heat, light, soil pH, and nutrients. This example shows the complexity of abiotic disease diagnosis. Because ABIOTIC diseases are the ones that occur most frequently on plants in the landscape, it is critical that landscapers, nurserymen, and grounds maintenance personnel develop the skills and experience needed to diagnose them.
1 Wind-blown rain is a common way for disease agents to spread from plant to plant. 2  Biotic diseases sometimes show physical evidence (signs) of the pathogen, such as fungal growth, bacterial ooze, or nematode cysts, or the presence of mites or insects. 3  Abiotic diseases do not show the presence of disease signs. 1 Abiotic damage often occurs on many plant species. 2  Drought stress or chemical drift will likely cause damage on several types of plants in a yard or garden. 3  In contrast, biotic disease problems are more limited to a certain species.
There are a few clues to look for that will help you distinguish between abiotic and biotic disease problems. 1  Abiotic damage often occurs on many plant species. 2  Drought stress or chemical drift will likely cause damage on several types of plants in a yard or garden. 1 Abiotic damage often occurs on many plant species. 2  Drought stress or chemical drift will likely cause damage on several types of plants in a yard or garden. 3  In contrast, biotic disease problems are more limited to a certain species.