Definition of a matrix organization structure. This may incorporate solid lines (direct strong reporting) and dotted lines (a weaker reporting relationship, but still indicating some formal level of ‘right’ to the individual’s time) or it may mean multiple solid lines to more than one boss. How the structure evolves. Most organizations evolve from functional structures within a country or other geographic region. In this case, we have a number of functions such as manufacturing, legal, HR, sales, marketing, IT etc. each reporting to a country or region head.
It is a type of organizational structure in which people with similar skills are pooled for work assignments, resulting in more than one manager (sometimes referred to as solid line and dotted line reports, in reference to traditional business organization charts). Some organizations fall somewhere between the fully functional and the pure matrix. These organizations are defined in A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge as ’composite’. For example, even a fundamentally functional organization may create a special project team to handle a critical project.
A definition. The term “matrix team” is coming into regular usage, but how do we define a matrix team. In its strictest definition a matrix organization structure is where people have more than one boss. So we could simply define a matrix team as a team where individuals on the team report to more than one boss. However, there are a variety of forms of matrix management and matrix structures and the term matrix team has been used more widely to define teamwork in these more complex environments. 
Matrix structure is only one of the three major structures. The other two are Functional and Project structure. Matrix management is more dynamic than functional management in that it is a combination of all the other structures and allows team members to share information more readily across task boundaries. 
He also reports to his own line manager (line reporting). Structure In a matrix organization, a vertical structure combines with a horizontal structure, that is two divisions overlap on the same hierarchical level. Here, the principles of functional reporting and line reporting intersect.
STRUCTURE. Photo by: kentoh. Matrix management is a technique of managing an organization (or, more commonly, part of an organization) through a series of dual-reporting relationships instead of a more traditional linear management structure. 
An organizational structure that facilitates the horizontal flow of skills and information. It is used mainly in the management of large projects or product development processes, drawing employees from different functional disciplines for assignment to a team without removing them from their respective positions. Show more usage examples... The matrix organization was optimal as there was a no central authority and all parties weighed in on their ideas equally. 10 people found this helpful. Sometimes it is best to use a matrix organization line of thinking when you are trying to come up with new plans to succeed.
Definition. A matrix organizational structure is a company structure in which the reporting relationships are set up as a grid, or matrix, rather than in the traditional hierarchy. In other words, employees have dual reporting relationships-generally to both a functional manager and a product manager. for Teachers for Schools for Companies. A matrix organizational structure is one of the most complicated reporting structures a company can implement. Read on to learn why a company might implement a matrix structure, and the advantages and disadvantages for both company and staff.
Matrix Organization Definition The matrix organization represents a two-dimensional hierarchy. This is based on positions reporting to more than one superior organizational object. Use Using the matrix organization tool, you can distribute limited resources across multiple organizational structures. Structure In a matrix organization, a vertical structure combines with a horizontal structure, that is two divisions overlap on the same hierarchical level. Here, the principles of functional reporting and line reporting intersect.