Absorbable biological suture material. Chromic is an absorbable suture made by twisting together strands of purified collagen taken from bovine intestines. Due to undergoing a ribbon stage chromicisation (treatment with chromic acid salts), the chromic offers roughly twice the stitch-holding time of plain catgut. Plain is an absorbable suture made by twisting together strands of purified collagen taken from bovine intestines. The natural plain thread is precision ground in order to achieve a monofilament character and treated with a glycerol containing solution. Plain is absorbed by enzymatic degradation.
Absorbable biological suture material. Plain is an absorbable suture made by twisting together strands of purified collagen taken from bovine intestines. The natural plain thread is precision ground in order to achieve a monofilament character and treated with a glycerol containing solution. Plain is absorbed by enzymatic degradation.
synthetic absorbable suture an absorbable suture produced from strands of polymers; the most commonly used materials are polyglactin 910 (Vicryl) and polyglycolic acid (Dexon); the latter is more rapidly absorbed. 3. material used in closing a wound with stitches. adj., adj su´tural. Various types of sutures. From Dorland's, 2000. absorbable suture a strand of material that is used for closing wounds and becomes dissolved in the body fluids and disappears; types include surgical gut, tendon, and some synthetics.
Non-Absorbable: CP Medical’s line of non-absorbable suture is comprised of natural silk and stainless steel as well as synthetic material such as polypropylene, polyester, silk and nylon materials. CP Medical produces the popular and unique Fluorofil® sutures for use in veterinary surgical applications. 
Types of Absorbable Sutures. 1  1. 2  Absorbable Sutures Absorbable sutures as the name suggests are absorbable in nature, which are broken down within the tissues and absorbed to the body after a period of time, which can be from ten days to eight weeks. 3  And hence it is mainly used in the internal tissues of the body. 1 Absorbable Sutures Absorbable sutures as the name suggests are absorbable in nature, which are broken down within the tissues and absorbed to the body after a period of time, which can be from ten days to eight weeks. 2  And hence it is mainly used in the internal tissues of the body. 3  WWW.SUTURES.IN.
For example, a 6-0 suture is more delicate and has less strength than a 4-0 suture. Sutures come as either absorbable or non absorbable: Absorbable sutures are made of materials which are broken down in tissue after a given period of time, which depending on the material can be from ten days to eight weeks. They are used therefore in many of the internal tissues of the body. Polydioxanone Sutures (PDS)- monofilament suture Non absorbable sutures are made of materials which are not metabolized by the body, and are used therefore either on skin wound closure, where the sutures can be removed after a few weeks, or in some inner tissues in which absorbable sutures are not adequate.
1 1. 2  Absorbable Sutures Absorbable sutures as the name suggests are absorbable in nature, which are broken down within the tissues and absorbed to the body after a period of time, which can be from ten days to eight weeks. 3  And hence it is mainly used in the internal tissues of the body. 1 Absorbable Sutures Absorbable sutures as the name suggests are absorbable in nature, which are broken down within the tissues and absorbed to the body after a period of time, which can be from ten days to eight weeks. 2  And hence it is mainly used in the internal tissues of the body. 3  WWW.SUTURES.IN.
synthetic absorbable suture an absorbable suture produced from strands of polymers; the most commonly used materials are polyglactin 910 (Vicryl) and polyglycolic acid (Dexon); the latter is more rapidly absorbed. suture. 1. sutura. 2. a stitch or series of stitches made to secure apposition of the edges of a surgical or traumatic wound; used also as a verb to indicate application of such stitches. 3. material used in closing a wound with stitches. adj., adj su´tural. Various types of sutures. From Dorland's, 2000. absorbable suture a strand of material that is used for closing wounds and becomes dissolved in the body fluids and disappears; types include surgical gut, tendon, and some synthetics