The same is true for the members of a limited liability partnership and the limited partners in a limited partnership. By contrast, sole proprietors and partners in general partnerships are each liable for all the debts of the business (unlimited liability). Although a shareholder's liability for the company's actions is limited, the shareholders may still be liable for their own acts. For example, the directors of small companies (who are frequently also shareholders) are often required to give personal guarantees of the company's debts to those lending to the company.
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a relatively new business structure authorized by state statute. The LLC is chiefly inspired by the GmbH (Company with limited liability), a type of business organization in Germany, and by the limitada, a type of business organization available in many Latin American countries.
A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private limited company. A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a relatively new business structure authorized by state statute. The LLC is chiefly inspired by the GmbH (Company with limited liability), a type of business organization in Germany, and by the limitada, a type of business organization available in many Latin American countries.
General Format. A limited liability company is a hybrid business entity. It has a separate legal existence and generally offers liability protection to its owners (called members). All members must enter into an operating agreement by either oral or written agreement. 
by BusinessDictionary. A Limited Liability Company, also known as an LLC, is a type of business structure that combines traits of both a sole-proprietorship and a corporation. 
Limited liability is where a person's financial liability is limited to a fixed sum, most commonly the value of a person's investment in a company or partnership. Although a shareholder's liability for the company's actions is limited, the shareholders may still be liable for their own acts. For example, the directors of small companies (who are frequently also shareholders) are often required to give personal guarantees of the company's debts to those lending to the company.
The simple definition of a limited liability company (LLC) is that it is a form of business entity that limits the liability of its owners while allowing flexibility in operation and management and passing through its income to its members with no tax at the entity level. 
The primary characteristic an LLC shares with a corporation is limited liability, and the primary characteristic it shares with a partnership is the availability of pass-through income taxation. It is often more flexible than a corporation, and it is well-suited for companies with a single owner. A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a relatively new business structure authorized by state statute. The LLC is chiefly inspired by the GmbH (Company with limited liability), a type of business organization in Germany, and by the limitada, a type of business organization available in many Latin American countries.
A limited liability company, commonly called an LLC, is a business structure that combines the pass-through taxation of a partnership or sole proprietorship with the limited liability of a corporation. Like owners of a corporation, however, all LLC owners are protected from personal liability for business debts and claims -- a feature known as limited liability.. This means that if the business owes money or faces a lawsuit, only the assets of the business itself are at risk.
A noncorporate business whose owners actively participate in the organization's management and are protected against personal liability for the organization's debts and obligations. The limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid legal entity that has both the characteristics of a corporation and of a partnership. An LLC provides its owners with corporate-like protection against personal liability. It is, however, usually treated as a noncorporate business organization for tax purposes. Liability. State LLC statutes specifically provide that members of an LLC are not personally liable for the LLC's debts and obligations. This limited liability is similar to the liability protection for corporate shareholders, partners in a limited partnership, and partners in a limited liability