A flux of 1000 lumens, concentrated into an area of one square metre, lights up that square metre with an illuminance of 1000 lux. However, the same 1000 lumens, spread out over ten square metres, produces a dimmer illuminance of only 100 lux. Achieving an illuminance of 500 lux might be possible in a home kitchen with a single fluorescent light fixture with an output of 7004120000000000000♠12000 lumens. To light a factory floor with dozens of times the area of the kitchen would require dozens of such fixtures. For monochromatic light of this wavelength, the amount of illuminance for a given amount of irradiance is maximum: 683.002 lux per W/m 2; the irradiance needed to make one lux at this wavelength is about 1.464 mW /m 2. Other wavelengths of visible light produce fewer lux per watt-per-meter-squared.
This Site Might Help You. RE: What does the name &#39;Lux&#39; mean? Lux is a girl name and I&#39;ve never heard of it until I watched the film &#39;The Virgin Suicides&#39;. Source(s): 39 lux 39 mean: https://biturl.im/grlR7. Genny · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.
Hypernyms (lux is a kind of...): illumination unit (a measure of illumination). Holonyms (lux is a part of...): phot (a unit of illumination equal to 1 lumen per square centimeter; 10,000 phots equal 1 lux). The noun LUX has 1 sense: 1. a unit of illumination equal to 1 lumen per square meter; 0.0929 foot candle. Familiarity information: LUX used as a noun is very rare.
The lux (symbol: lx) is the SI unit of illuminance and luminous emittance, measuring luminous flux per unit area. It is equal to one lumen per square metre. In photometry, this is used as a measure of the intensity, as perceived by the human eye, of light that hits or passes through a surface. For monochromatic light of this wavelength, the amount of illuminance for a given amount of irradiance is maximum: 683.002 lux per W/m 2; the irradiance needed to make one lux at this wavelength is about 1.464 mW /m 2. Other wavelengths of visible light produce fewer lux per watt-per-meter-squared.
Lux is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Lux. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1693 in baby name popularity for girls with 124 occurrences. It ranked 3832 in popular baby names for boys with 27 occurrences. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Lux is a girl name and I've never heard of it until I watched the film 'The Virgin Suicides'. Update: Cedwick C: To answer your question, I rather liked the movie! Lux is a girl name and I&#39;ve never heard of it until I watched the film &#39;The Virgin Suicides&#39;. Source(s): 39 lux 39 mean: https://biturl.im/grlR7. Genny · 2 months ago.
The lux is the SI unit of illuminance and luminous emittance, measuring luminous flux per unit area. It is equal to one lumen per square metre. In photometry, this is used as a measure of the intensity, as perceived by the human eye, of light that hits or passes through a surface. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: lux (Noun). In the International System of Units, the derived unit of illuminance or illumination; one lumen per square metre. Symbol: lx. Origin: From lux; from lewk-.
Definition of LUX. : a unit of illumination equal to the direct illumination on a surface that is everywhere one meter from a uniform point source of one candle intensity or equal to one lumen per square meter. See lux defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
lux. noun \ˈləks\. plural lux or lux·es. : a unit of illumination equal to the direct illumination on a surface that is everywhere one meter from a uniform point source of one candle intensity or equal to one lumen per square meter—called also meter-candle. : a unit of illumination equal to the direct illumination on a surface that is everywhere one meter from a uniform point source of one candle intensity or equal to one lumen per square meter.