So in the truest sense, the grenade man is the counter to the female cockblock. The wingman would be the opposite of the male cockblock in that he is assisting your game instead of hampering. I don't know if men are the same, at least not to the degree that women are because how we relate to the opposite sex is different. It is alot more rare for a strange woman to devote alot of attention to a strange guy but it is common for the opposite to happen.
[http://onlineslangdictionary.com/meaning-definition-of/cockblock cockblock]. 1  a person-usually female-who prevents her female friends from meeting, talking to, making out with, or having sex with males. 2  Literally, a person who blocks a cock (penis) from contact with her female friends. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
COCKBLOCK. Always a good idea to stretch before you tear up the dance floor. Dancing it out at @cockblocksf is also a great idea You get to do that TONIGHT We're going old school with them 90's throwbacks, courtesy of @djbeckyknox and Natalie Nuxx. COCKBLOCK created an event. October 5 at 10:21am ·. 10. Sat 10 PM · Rickshaw Stop · San Francisco, CA.
Report Abuse. Take your pick of which definition you like the best. 1. cockblock 1. To prevent a male friend or associate from getting some action. 2. Any such attempt to prevent a male friend or associate from getting some action. 1. Damn, Johnny just totally cockblocked his roommate. We're going to have to attempt a cockblock. 2. cockblock 1.The act of obstructing one person's advances towards another. 2.A situation that obstructs; an obstacle 3.An act of ill etiquette in which a male is speaking to one female in a group of females, and the alpha female creates a disruptive environment.
Cockblock. A cockblock is a slang term for an intentional, or sometimes unintentional action that serves to prevent someone from having sexual intercourse with a partner. Such behavior is often motivated by jealousy, or competitiveness, although it is sometimes accidental, or inadvertent. 
cockblock. 1  a person-usually female-who prevents her female friends from meeting, talking to, making out with, or having sex with males. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Cockblock is a slang term for an action, intentional or not, that serves to prevent someone from having sex. Such behavior is often motivated by jealousy, or competitiveness, although it is sometimes accidental, or inadvertent. A cockblock or cockblocker is a person who engages in such obstruction or intervention.
Social research has documented norms among male peer groups that view cockblock behavior as negative, which may make men less likely to challenge each other's behavior or impede sexual access to women, even in cases of possible sexual assault or intimate partner violence. Such behavior is often motivated by jealousy, or competitiveness, although it is sometimes accidental, or inadvertent. A cockblock or cockblocker is a person who engages in such obstruction or intervention.