Koi is an egg-laying fish and the parents will not hesitate to eat eggs as well as free swimming offspring. During professional Koi breeding where a large survival rate is important, the eggs will therefore be placed in their own pond. When the female deposit her eggs at the spawning mop, the males will immediately fertilize them. The spawning mops can then be removed and placed in the fry raising pond. During Koi breeding, it can be a good idea to add 0.2 mg of malachite green for each liter of water in the fry raising pond to prevent fungus attacks.
Spawning (breeding Koi) will generally last only 20 to 30 minutes and can easily be missed. A good indicator that spawning has happened is to look for the presence of a froth or scum on the water’s surface. Keep checking for translucent eggs, so they will not be eaten. It is possible though that younger Koi will breed but their offspring will be of poor quality. Eggs are spawn and sperm is milt. The female is capable of carrying around 100,000 eggs for every 1kg of body weight. So a female of 10kg in weight will pass 1,000,000 eggs of which 60% will hatch.
Koi breed once a year around spring time when the temperature changes. There are many factors that determines the amount of eggs a koi will produce. Diet or the fish's … state of health can affect it. For a koi fish in good health and approximate figure is about 45,000 per pound of fish. 
Koi will also lay their eggs on twigs nestled on the floor of the pond. Keep a careful watch on the eggs once they are laid, as many koi enjoy snacking on them. You may have to place any roaming hungry koi in a separate pond or tank to protect your eggs while hatching. Koi eggs are tiny and translucent. After that, you can work on feeding your koi fry larger and larger solid foods. Baby koi can eat food out of your refrigerator, such as hard boiled eggs. They can also eat commercial foods, such as baby brine shrimp and freeze-dried krill. Throughout the first month of life, feed your young koi four times a day.
Koi offspring will usually hatch after 3 to 7 days, depending on the water temperature. If the water temperature is around 20 degrees C/ 68 degrees F, the eggs will hatch after 3-4 days. You know that the hatching will take place within a day when the eggs develop a special shiny look. When the female deposit her eggs at the spawning mop, the males will immediately fertilize them. The spawning mops can then be removed and placed in the fry raising pond. During Koi breeding, it can be a good idea to add 0.2 mg of malachite green for each liter of water in the fry raising pond to prevent fungus attacks.
Immature Koi may also eat the eggs, so if you want to rear them, you should separate the spawning Koi from others in the pond. Incubating Koi Eggs The incubator should have a reasonable capacity. A water storage tank about 100 gallons is ideal, and should be made of non-toxic materials. The day before the Koi hatches the eyes in the egg will have a shine to them. Soon afterwards, the young Koi will begin to wriggle then, gradually, over the next few hours, it will break out of its 'shell'. It will take three to four days for the Koi eggs to develop and the fry to hatch at temperatures of 68 -7l. Koi fry can develop at temperatures as low as 63, in which case their incubation will take five or six days, or as high as 77, which will decrease their hatching time
Breeding Koi. If you are interested in breeding koi, you need to have the koi larger than 25cm or else it is biologically impossible because the ovaries and testes in the male and female have not fully developed making them sexually imature. Anywhere after 25cm in length you can start to breed the koi fish. 
Koi fish eggs are the start of new life in your pond. If you come across some newly-hatched eggs nestled on the tip of a pond plant in your backyard, expect to find a population boom within the next few days! Typically, koi eggs will hatch in less than a week. Koi eggs are very small, bead-like specks that can vary from milky white to yellow or green. Upon closer inspection, you can see two black dots through the transparent membrane of the egg. After that, you can work on feeding your koi fry larger and larger solid foods. Baby koi can eat food out of your refrigerator, such as hard boiled eggs. They can also eat commercial foods, such as baby brine shrimp and freeze-dried krill. Throughout the first month of life, feed your young koi four times a day.