Best Answer: Dutch is the official language of Amsterdam. However almost every Amsterdammer speaks English fluent. There are plans from the local government to make the English language the second official language of Amsterdam. You wil notice in Amsterdam that sum personnel's from Hotels or boutiques are English speakers. For the local people this isn't a problem because they can communicate in English
Cecily Layzell. Correspondent. Amsterdam, The Netherlands, EUR. Dutch is the official language of the Netherlands and the most widely spoken language in Amsterdam. However, the Dutch are exposed to English from a young age, via imported television shows and films which are rarely dubbed, and at school. As a result, most Amsterdammers speak fluent English
The official language of the Netherlands is Dutch. The majority of Amsterdam’s residents speak English well and are often fluent in one or two languages on top of that. You can usually get by effortlessly in Amsterdam without a knowing word of Dutch. For those keen to try, learning a few words or phrases will always go a long way with the locals.
The official national language of the Netherlands is Dutch, spoken by almost all people in the Netherlands. 1 Frisian is spoken by 453,000 speakers. 2  English is an official language in the special municipalities of Saba and Sint Eustatius (BES Islands). 3  It is widely spoken on Saba and Sint Eustatius (see also: English language in the Netherlands).
Dude, Amsterdam is the capital of Holland (The Netherlands), and they speak Dutch there. In Finland they speak Finnish In Greenland, I think they speak Danish, and maybe some other Inuit language, but I'm not sure. = Dutch for Holland, Amsterdam and the Netherlands. Greenland is a part of Denmark. = Danish for Greenland The primary language in Finland is called Suomi.
Frisian is spoken by 453,000 speakers [1] * Several dialects of Dutch Low Saxon (Nedersaksisch in Dutch) are spoken in much of the north-east of the country and are recognised by the Netherlands as regional languages according to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. = Dutch for Holland, Amsterdam and the Netherlands. Greenland is a part of Denmark. = Danish for Greenland The primary language in Finland is called Suomi.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Bessey52. Confidence votes 7.6K. Dutch is the most spoken language in Amsterdam; English is second. They speak Dutch. However the name applied by the inhabitants is Nederlands. 
The population in the Netherlands has slightly more women than men. Dutch is a spoken language in the Netherlands as well as an official language of the country. However, most of Dutch people speak at least one foreign language, mostly English that is taught at school during the basic education. Population and Languages of Netherlands. The Netherlands is the most populated country in the world with 477 people per square kilometer of the land (393 people including the internal waters). Netherlands is populated in 81% by Caucasian Dutch population of Germanic or Gallo Celtic descent.
English is widely spoken in Amsterdam, as well as other cities in the Netherlands, and you will have no problem navigating the city. Personally, I only know a few words of Dutch and I never had a problem in the city. You may want to bring a phrase book to help you with greetings and simple phrases. 