Temperature reaches its coldest at the tropopause, which is the boundary between the troposphere below and the stratosphere above. In the stratosphere, the temperature increas … es with height due to absorption of radiation by ozone. Temperature changes when altitude is in the stratosphere because of  one things. It already rises when you climb up in the stratosphere.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The temperature changes within the stratosphere with increasing distance from the earth. The temperature increases with altitude, reaching a maximum of about 2 degrees Celsius This is unlike the troposphere, where the temperature decreases with increasing altitude. In the stratosphere, the temperature increas … es with height due to absorption of radiation by ozone. Temperature changes when altitude is in the stratosphere because of  one things. It already rises when you climb up in the stratosphere.
The stratosphere /ˈstraetɵsfɪər/ ˈstrætɵsfɪər is the second major layer Of'earth s, atmosphere just above the, troposphere and below the. Mesosphere it is stratified in, temperature with warmer layers higher up and cooler layers farther. down The stratosphere is layered in temperature because ozone (O 3) here absorbs high energy ultraviolet (UVB and UVC) radiation from the Sun and is broken down into the allotropes of atomic oxygen (O 1) and common molecular oxygen (O 2).
The density of air near the top of the stratosphere is nearly zero. 2.1.2 Air Temperature Change With Altitude -- The temperature of the atmosphere at first decreases with altitude and then increases. Temperatures decrease with altitude in the troposphere, the region between the surface and about 11 km. This is the region where we live and where weather occurs. 
In the stratosphere, however, the temperature remains constant for a while and then increases with altitude. The region of the atmosphere where the lapse rate changes from positive (in the troposphere) to negative (in the stratosphere), is defined as the tropopause. The tropopause is the boundary region between the troposphere and the stratosphere. Measuring the temperature change with height through the troposphere and the stratosphere identifies the location of the tropopause. In the troposphere, temperature de
Image from the Comet Program. The atmosphere consists of 4 layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. Figure A shows the placement of the different layers of the atmosphere and how the temperature changes with height as you go from the ground up to space. The troposphere is the lowest layer of the atmosphere. 
Diagram of the atmosphere (layers to scale). Distance from the surface to the top of the stratosphere is just under 1% of Earth's radius. This image shows the temperature trend in the Lower Stratosphere as measured by a series of satellite-based instruments between January 1979 and December 2005. The stratosphere is layered in temperature because ozone (O 3) here absorbs high energy ultraviolet (UVB and UVC) radiation from the Sun and is broken down into the allotropes of atomic oxygen (O 1) and common molecular oxygen (O 2).
Together the tropopause and the troposphere are known as the lower atmosphere. Stratosphere. The Stratosphere extends from the tropopause up to 31 miles above the Earth's surface. This layer holds 19 percent of the atmosphere's gases but very little water vapor. Temperature increases with height as radiation is increasingly absorbed by oxygen molecules leading to the formation of Ozone. 
Within this layer, temperature increases as altitude increases (see temperature inversion) ; the top of the stratosphere has a temperature of about 270 K (−3 °C or 26.6 °F), just slightly below the freezing point of water. The stratosphere is layered in temperature because ozone (O 3) here absorbs high energy ultraviolet (UVB and UVC) radiation from the Sun and is broken down into the allotropes of atomic oxygen (O 1) and common molecular oxygen (O 2).
1 Describe how the temperature of the atmosphere changes with altitude. 2  Outline the properties of the troposphere. 3  Explain the role of the ozone layer in the stratosphere. 4  Describe conditions in the mesosphere. Lesson Objectives. 1  Describe how the temperature of the atmosphere changes with altitude. 2  Outline the properties of the troposphere. 3  Explain the role of the ozone layer in the stratosphere. 4  Describe conditions in the mesosphere. 5  Explain how the sun affects the thermosphere. 6  Identify the exosphere.