In other cases, documents from the early periods of contact with European, African, and Asian peoples allow the recovery of food practices which passed out of popularity. Modern-day Native American cuisine is varied. The pre-conquest cuisine of the Native Americans of Mesoamerica made a major contribution to shaping modern-day Mexican cuisine, Honduran cuisine, Guatemalan cuisine, El Salvador cuisine.
It was often done, but it was not the preferred way of cooking. Native Americans viewed grilling as an inferior way of preparing meat as it resulted in the loss of much of what makes meat so great to eat: fat. Earth Ovens : A common way of cooking buffalo involved earth ovens. 
One of the powerful technologies which Native Americans had was fire, and they clearly changed the landscape with it. Sometimes to clear the woods for hunting or travel, sometimes to create a berry patch, the changes could be found in patches across the continents. Fire regimes of United States plants. Savannas have regimes of a few years: blue, pink, and light green areas. Although there are no written documents describing the intentional, controlled burning of forests, it is believed that the cumulative impact of burning by Native Americans profoundly altered the landscape.
The Native-American cook will be as likely as anyone else to mix traditional staples with modern commercial ingredients. Squash, in its many varied forms including pumpkin, is much used; lamb, mutton and pork are favored meats. Native Americans will, of course, frequently eat mainstream American foods. In the Pacific Northwest region of the United States, the indigenous technique of plank roasting salmon and other fish is used by fine restaurants and outdoor cooks alike, and certainly by the tribes themselves. The cook seasons the salmon and affixes it to a board of fragrant cedar or alder wood for baking.
The Native Americans did not kill anything they could not use. They never killed an animal or a fish for the sport of it. Fishing and hunting were a way to survive. The Native Americans lived in harmony with nature and did not abuse the natural world. Native Americans were ecologists long before they were ever used. The Anishinaabe people do not have a word for “Conservation”, because it is an assumed way of life, it did not have to have a special word.
Many dishes that are still popular today started with the Native Americans. Some example of this include cornbread and succotash, a combination of beans, corn and tomatoes. In addition to pioneering a number of delicious recipes, the Native Americans devised a variety of innovating cooking methods. They used what resources they had available to come up with ways to boil, bake, and roast their food. Traditional Cooking Utensils. The Native Americans used a variety of materials to make cooking utensils. Stones were used as slabs and bowls for grinding acorns and maize into flour. Gourds were hollowed out and dried to be used as spoons, bowls, and storage containers.
Native American Contributions Number 1 Did you know that Native Americans have contributed many things to the American way of life today? Things that you use or do now, many Native Americans have been using and doing for many, many years. Many times, the only thing people remember about Native Americans are the negative things-but they contribute many positive things and should be remembered for them. Native Americans were ecologists long before they were ever used. The Anishinaabe people do not have a word for “Conservation”, because it is an assumed way of life, it did not have to have a special word.
The use of indigenous domesticated and wild food ingredients can represent Native American food and cuisine. North American Native Cuisine can differ somewhat from Southwestern and Mexican Cuisine in its simplicity and directness of flavor. The pre-conquest cuisine of the Native Americans of Mesoamerica made a major contribution to shaping modern-day Mexican cuisine, Honduran cuisine, Guatemalan cuisine, El Salvador cuisine.
Traditional Native American cooking was done using a variety of tools such as grinding stones, earthenware pottery, and cooking baskets. Many of these cooking methods were adopted and improved by European settlers and some are still used by the Native Americans today. slide 1 of 5. The food of Native Americans is known by many to consist largely of maize, or corn products and meat that they hunted. Traditional Cooking Utensils. The Native Americans used a variety of materials to make cooking utensils. Stones were used as slabs and bowls for grinding acorns and maize into flour. Gourds were hollowed out and dried to be used as spoons, bowls, and storage containers.