Dry needling is an invasive procedure in which a solid filament needle is inserted into the skin and muscle directly at a myofascial trigger point.
Dry needling (Myofascial Trigger Point Dry Needling) is the use of either solid filiform needles (also referred to as acupuncture needles) or hollow-core hypodermic needles for therapy of muscle pain, including pain related to myofascial pain syndrome.
Dry Needling vs. Acupuncture. Dry needling is a broad term used to differentiate ‘non injection’ needling from the practice of ‘injection needling’ which involves a hollow bore hypodermic needle to deliver an agent such as saline, local anesthetic, and corticosteroid into the tissue.
Dry Needling achieves pain relief by inactivating trigger points resulting in muscle relaxation due to the release of shortened bands of muscle fibers. Both Dry Needling and Acupuncture do, however, use the same tool; a solid needle filament.
Dry Needling is a valuable, effective and efficient adjunct treatment to inactivate myofascial trigger points. It is an invasive procedure in which a thin solid filament sterile needle is used. Dry Needling involves insertion and repetitive manipulation of the needle in the myofascial trigger point. The purpose of this technique is to inactivate the myofascial trigger points by producing a local twitch response. This local twitch response then releases the shortened bands of muscle fibers.
It involves insertion and repetitive manipulation of the needle in the myofascial trigger point in order to produce a local twitch response. This twitch response results in muscle relaxation due to the release of shortened bands of muscle fibers. No medication of any kind is injected.
Dry needling is an invasive procedure in which a solid filament needle is inserted into the skin and muscle directly at a myofascial trigger point. A myofascial trigger point consists of multiple contraction knots, which are related to the production and maintenance of the pain cycle.
Dry Needling is a hands-on physical therapy approach to treat Myofascial Pain and Dysfunction. A variety of manual techniques are used during the physical therapy treatments to inactivate myofacial trigger points, and to restore normal muscle tones, muscle length, coordination, function and strength.