Ask Mr. Smarty Plants is a free service provided by the staff and volunteers at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center. Search Smarty Plants. See a list of all Smarty Plants questions. Can't find the answer in our existing FAQs, submit a question to Mr. Smarty Plants. Highway departments all over the country urge drivers not to pull off on the roadway to pick flowers because of the hazards, and they certainly frown on digging up plants on the right-of-way. In Pennsylvania, there is a law prohibiting the moving of the native (and state flower) Kalmia latifolia (mountain laurel).
Most wild flowers soon wither if you pick them, but you can preserve them for a long time by pressing or drying them. Choose only flowers that you know are common, and do not pick them unless there are lots of them. Remember to pick a stem with a leaf, or take a separate leaf to press with it. Flat flower heads like buttercups, violets, Blue Columbine, Wild Flax, and Prairie Star press well. Avoid very bulky flower heads like Red Clover, sunflowers, or Teasel. Drying Wildflowers. Drying is even better than pressing for preserving wild flowers. It keeps their shape as well as their color, and in some cases dried flowers are hard to tell from fresh ones. Members of the daisy family, like daisies, thistles, and dandelions all dry well.
See Western Australian wildflowers in bloom. There are more than 12,000 species of wildflowers in WA, making it the world’s largest collection. It’s a staggering sight to behold, especially when you consider 60% of Western Australian wildflowers are found nowhere else on Earth. 
Be careful not to trespass when picking plants and never take material from a nature reserve or protected site without permission. Untended road verges and public rights of way are often good sources of wild flowers, but look out for traffic! 1  Take flowers and foliage only from large patches of the plant. Hyacinthoides non-scripta (Bluebell). Generally, uprooting is harmful, but picking with care and in moderation usually does little damage and can foster the appreciation of wild plants, which in turn benefits their conservation.
1 Picking the flowers of any endangered or threatened species is illegal in Florida. 2  For details, see Florida Statute 581.185 Preservation of native flora of Florida. 3  Stopping along a roadside to pick wildflowers can be hazardous to you and other motorists. The Florida Wildflower Foundation invites you to share your photos of them, join in discussions and learn more about wildflowers' role in the ecosystems of La Florida, land of flowers.
We also harvest a premium grass and flower meadow seed mix from traditional wildflower meadows in the Marches area. Our 2015 meadow seed mix is ready now and the best time to sow is September or October. We can help you if you want to encourage more wildlife into your own garden, or onto your farm. 
More reasons not to pick wildflowers: 1  Picking the flowers of any endangered or threatened species is illegal in Florida. 2  For details, see Florida Statute 581.185 Preservation of native flora of Florida. 3  Stopping along a roadside to pick wildflowers can be hazardous to you and other motorists. The Florida Wildflower Foundation invites you to share your photos of them, join in discussions and learn more about wildflowers' role in the ecosystems of La Florida, land of flowers.
Consequently, some people are illegally removing wildflowers and other native plants from their natural habitats. In some cases entire populations of a species have been stolen. Rare and unusual plants such as carnivorous pitcher plants (Sarracenia sp.) have become rarer due to illegal removal from public lands. There are four main consequences to this illegal activity: 1  All living organisms need to reproduce. 2  Removing wildflowers from the wild can adversely affect pollinators and other animals that depend on that species for food and cover; 3  Removing wildflowers from our national forests and grasslands prevents other visitors from enjoying our natural 4  ... M
Wildflower Ethics and Native Plants. An idyllic setting in an alpine meadow of the Albion basin in the Wasatch Mountains. Photo by Teresa Prendusi. For many of us a field of wildflowers is one of the most beautiful experiences we can encounter in Nature. There are four main consequences to this illegal activity: 1  All living organisms need to reproduce. 2  Removing wildflowers from the wild can adversely affect pollinators and other animals that depend on that species for food and cover; 3  Removing wildflowers from our national forests and grasslands prevents other visitors from enjoying our natural 4  ... M
Picking the flowers for your wedding, birthday, bar/bat-mitzvah can be an educational, memorable, and special way to feel connected to the event. We’ve had brides, grooms, entire wedding parties, parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles come to pick, and children of all ages love to explore the fields. 