When you turn over a fern frond and look at the sporangia on the underside, you’ll quickly see that they are grouped together into various shapes and patterns. Sporangia can be grouped together into circles, elongated along the veins or arranged around the margin of the frond. There are numerous patterns and variations. Ferns are quite simple structurally, and scientists begin by observing and documenting their sporangia, rhizomes and fronds. The reproductive structures are the most important characteristic for classifying ferns.
This classification is that of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA, 2000), but it must be noted that fern classification is subject to disagreement (Hickman, 1993; Jones, 1987). Fern classification, as the Jepson Manual says, is in rapid flux, (Hickman, 1999). The sporangium contains the spores until they are ripe. When this time comes, a ring of cells around the sporangium called an annulus bursts open, causing the sporangium to snap open, casting the spores upon the wind (Frankel, 1981). The spores eventually land, but they do not produce a recognizable fern.
A fern is a member of a group of approximately 12,000 species of vascular plants that reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers. They differ from mosses by being vascular (i.e. having water-conducting vessels). They have stems and leaves, like other vascular plants. Most ferns have what are called fiddleheads that expand into fronds, which are each delicately divided. The gametophyte of ferns is a free-living organism, whereas the gametophyte of the gymnosperms and angiosperms is dependent on the sporophyte. Life cycle of a typical fern: 1  A diploid sporophyte phase produces haploid spores by meiosis (a process of cell division which reduces the number of chromosomes by a half).
Description of Species: The sword fern, also known as the western sword fern, is a member of a large plant group known as the Pteridophyta, consisting of not only all the other ferns, but the fern-allies, such as horsetails and clubmosses, as well (Frankel, 1981; Mickel, 1979). The sporangium contains the spores until they are ripe. When this time comes, a ring of cells around the sporangium called an annulus bursts open, causing the sporangium to snap open, casting the spores upon the wind (Frankel, 1981). The spores eventually land, but they do not produce a recognizable fern.
1 Mature sporophyte (Fern plant) produces spores in sporangia (spore producing organs) usually located in sori (sporangia bundles) found on the underside of leaves. ( 2 top middle and right). 3  Spores are dropped from the sporangia to the ground. 1 Spores are dropped from the sporangia to the ground. ( 2 middle right). 3  Spores germinate into a heart shaped gametophyte (gamete producing plant) thallus (plant body not differentiated into stems and leaves). ( 4 bottom right). 5  Mature gametophytes produce microspores (male gametes, sperm) and megaspores (female gametes, egg).
The gametophytes of ferns, however, are very different from those of seed plants. Instead, they resemble liverworts. A fern gametophyte typically consists of: 1  Prothallus: A green, photosynthetic structure that is one cell thick, usually heart or kidney shaped, 3–10 mm long and 2–8 mm broad. The gametophyte of ferns is a free-living organism, whereas the gametophyte of the gymnosperms and angiosperms is dependent on the sporophyte. Life cycle of a typical fern: 1  A diploid sporophyte phase produces haploid spores by meiosis (a process of cell division which reduces the number of chromosomes by a half).
The above-ground part of the plant is called a frond or leaf, and is divided into two major parts, a leafless stem called a stipe that reaches from the rhizome to the other and much larger part, the blade (Jones, 1987; Mickel, 1979). The sporangium contains the spores until they are ripe. When this time comes, a ring of cells around the sporangium called an annulus bursts open, causing the sporangium to snap open, casting the spores upon the wind (Frankel, 1981). The spores eventually land, but they do not produce a recognizable fern.
The Class of true ferns was once named Polypodiopsida (now Filicopsida) and the Order Polypodiales contains most fern families. The basic fern structure is thus taxonomically defined by the Polypody, a once-divided or one-cut fern; the individual pinna are broadly connected at the base to the central stem, or rachis. The Polypody grows from a woody underground stem called a rhizome that extends horizontally along the ground.
Licorice Fern are placed into the Family Polypodiaceae, containing sporophytes consisting of creeping rhizomes that give rise to simple, or less commonly, pinnate leaves. The rhizome and leaf axis have multiple vascular bundles arranged in a circular pattern. Licorice Fern are placed into the Domain Eukarya because they contain both a nuclear envelope and membrane-enclosed organelles in each individual cell, a defining characteristic of this Domain.