Put the potatoes on the grill, cut side down, directly over the hottest part of the fire. Cover the grill (if you're using a charcoal grill, cover it only partially and make sure the bottom vents are open). Cook the potatoes until deep reddish-golden brown, 4 to 6 minutes, and turn them over onto their other cut side. Cover and grill until nicely colored, another 4 to 6 minutes.
7. Cook your potatoes. Adjust your grill to medium heat and cook for 5 to 6 minutes and turn to the other cut side. Cook on second side for 5 to 6 minutes and then turn wedges so the skin side is down.
Short Cut Potatoes; The fastest way to grill your potatoes is to parboil them first. This is done by taken your sliced potatoes and throwing them in boiling water for about 10 minutes. Drain and place on a medium hot grill and they will be cooked in another 5 to 10 minutes. Place them straight on the grill or in a grill basket over a medium heat and cook until they get soft. This will take about 20 minutes. You can baste them while they cook. You will need to flip your potato wedges periodically to prevent burning.
Baked potatoes that have been cut into slices or wedges, 5-10 minutes on the grill. How To Make A Baked Potato. Conventional Oven Baked Potatoes: Wrap the potato in foil, poke it with a fork 5 times for venting, and bake it in the oven for 45 minutes at 400°. How Long To Microwave Baked Potatoes. To make a microwave baked potato, cook it on high heat for 2-4 minutes per side. The time will vary, depending on the power of your microwave and the size of the potato.
Baked potatoes on the grill, whole, 45 minutes. Baked potatoes on the grill, sliced, 5-10 minutes. Baked potatoes in the microwave, 2-4 minutes per side, depending on the size of the potato and the strength of the microwave. How Long Does It Take To Grill Baked Potatoes. Baked potatoes in foil, 45 minutes on the grill. Baked potatoes that have been parboiled for 10 minutes, 5-10 minutes on the grill. How Long To Microwave Baked Potatoes. To make a microwave baked potato, cook it on high heat for 2-4 minutes per side. The time will vary, depending on the power of your microwave and the size of the potato.
Grilling baked potatoes whole takes 30-45 minutes in foil on the grill, if the potatoes are whole. If you’re running short on time, parboil your potatoes for 10 minutes before you put them on the grill or microwave them for 3 minutes per side, and you’ll only need to grill your baked potatoes for 5-10 minutes. Grilling baked potatoes that have been cut into slices or wedges requires just 5-10 minutes on the grill at medium heat, depending on the thickness of your potato chunks.
Grill the packet over a medium-hot fire, turning it after 10 minutes. How long it takes to cook potatoes depends on the heat of the grill and the size potato chunks, but 20 to 30 minutes should do. After 20 minutes, test for doneness with a bamboo skewer. jadryn8888 · 10 years ago. Thumbs up. 
1 To get a crispy potato skin on a whole potato, take your grilled baked potatoes out of the foil after 20-30 minutes and put them directly on the grill for the last 10 minutes of cooking time. Adjust your grill to medium heat and cook for 5 to 6 minutes and turn to the other cut side. Cook on second side for 5 to 6 minutes and then turn wedges so the skin side is down.
Microwave potatoes until soft. Cut into large pieces. Cut up onion and pepper. Take foil-spray with ... butter and spread on top of potatoes ... Wrap all tightly in foil (double wrapping ... splitting). Cook on grill approximately 20 minutes ... be added for flavor
Step 8. Close the lid on your grill, and let the potato slices cook in the foil for 20 to 25 minutes, or until they become tender. Turn the potato pouches halfway through the cooking process with tongs