Broil the steak 4 to 6 minutes per side: Remove the steak from the marinade, shake off any excess, and place it in the middle of the broiler pan. Slide it directly under the broil. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, flip it over, and broil for another 4 to 6 minutes (8 to 12 minutes total). 
Flip the steak and cook for an additional 1-2 minutes over high heat. You won't need as much time on the second side of the steak because it will continue to develop color (from contact with the bottom of the pan) in the oven. 4. Of course, the time spent in the oven depends on the thickness of the steak (the thicker the steak, the longer cooking time it will require) and your desired level of doneness (after 6 minutes, the steak is probably still medium-rare; after 8 minutes, it's about medium).
1 Return the steak flat in the pan. 2  Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook until an instant-read thermometer reads to desired doneness (oven cooking time will be anywhere from 5-15 minutes depending on the desired doneness of your steak --- for medium-rare 140-145 degrees and for medium 155-160 degrees. 1 Season the steak/s with black pepper, then allow the meat to sit at room temperature for 1 to 1-1/2 hours. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 3  Heat the oil in a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat or just until the oil begins to lightly smoke.
To roast a steak: 1  Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. 2  Season the steak. 3  Sear steak in a hot skillet for just a minute on each side. 4  Transfer steak to a wire rack on a rimmed baking sheet and place in the preheated oven. 5  Roast for 20 to 25 minutes, until desired doneness is achieved. Steakhouse Steak. Now that you are no longer asking how long does it take to cook steak in the oven, you might want to give this oven-roasted steak recipe a try. It works best for very thick, tender cuts of steaks like baseball cut rib-eyes or thick-cut tenderloins. Choose a steak with a minimum one-inch thickness. 1  Preheat the oven to 275 degrees. 2  Season the steaks with sea salt and fresh-cracked black pepper. 3  Place steak on a rack placed over a rimmed baking sheet and put in the preheated oven. 4  Cook the steaks in the oven for 40 to 45 minutes
1 Cook the steaks in the oven for eight to 12 minutes. 2  Cut into one of the steaks to see if it's cooked to your taste. 3  Remove the steaks from the oven and allow them to rest for 10 to 15 minutes to allow the juices to redistribute throughout the steak [source: Garten ]. With a few simple ingredients and 20 minutes, you can pull a succulent steak from the oven. Read the steps listed below and learn about how to cook steak in the oven. Ingredients: 1  Four 2-inch (5-centimeter) thick filet mignons. 2  2 tablespoons vegetable oil. 3  2 tablespoons salt. 4  2 tablespoons coarsely ground black pepper.
Instructions. 1  PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. Remove from oven. HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. Grind on black pepper. Immediately place the steak in the middle of the hot, dry skillet.
1 Cook the steaks in the oven for 40 to 45 minutes. 2  The steak will still look fairly uncooked when you remove it from the oven. 3  A thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the steak will reveal a cooking temperature five to ten degrees lower than the desired doneness. Steakhouse Steak. Now that you are no longer asking how long does it take to cook steak in the oven, you might want to give this oven-roasted steak recipe a try. It works best for very thick, tender cuts of steaks like baseball cut rib-eyes or thick-cut tenderloins. Choose a steak with a minimum one-inch thickness. 1  Preheat the oven to 275 degrees. 2  Season the steaks with sea salt and fresh-cracked black pepper. 3  Place steak on a rack placed over a rimmed baking sheet and put in the preheated oven. 4  Cook the steaks in the oven for 40 to 45 minute
1 Place a tablespoon of unsalted butter on each of the steaks and place the skillet directly in the oven. 2  Turn the heat down to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (51.6 degrees Celsius). 3  Cook the steaks in the oven for eight to 12 minutes. 4  Cut into one of the steaks to see if it's cooked to your taste. With a few simple ingredients and 20 minutes, you can pull a succulent steak from the oven. Read the steps listed below and learn about how to cook steak in the oven. Ingredients: 1  Four 2-inch (5-centimeter) thick filet mignons. 2  2 tablespoons vegetable oil. 3  2 tablespoons salt. 4  2 tablespoons coarsely ground black pepper.