Protists are organisms that are classified into the kingdom Protista. The protists form a group of organisms that really do not fit into any other kingdom. Although there is a lot of variety within the protists, they do share some common characteristics. Animal-like Protists. Protists that are classified as animal-like are called protozoans and share some common traits with animals. All animal-like protists are heterotrophs. Likewise, all animal-like protists are able to move in their environment in order to find their food.
Plant/Algal-Like Protists. Plant/Algal-like protists are eukaryotes that are similar to plants. Scientists classify these protists by the color of their pigments. They are autotrophic and use chlorophyll and other pigments to harvest and use energy from sunlight. They produce oxygen for our environment.
Algae or ingredients from algae are used in foods and other products that we use in our daily lives. Fungus-likeFungus-like protists are heterotrophs that can move at some time during their life cycle. They use spores to reproduce. The three types of fungus-like protists are slime molds, water molds and downy molds. There are both single celled and multicellular organisms found in this kingdom. Some protists are autotrophs that can make their own food and some are heterotrophs that can not make their own food and some are both autotroph and heterotroph. Animal-like Animal-like protists, also known as protozoans, are all heterotrophs that can move in their surroundings to find food
Zooflagellates have a whip like flagella that moves the organisms through the water. Some protozoans cause disease in humans and other animals. Plant-likePlant-like protists, which are also commonly called algae, are autotrophs that can make their own food. Just like plants they have chloroplasts that carry out the process of photosynthesis. There are both single celled and multicellular organisms found in this kingdom. Some protists are autotrophs that can make their own food and some are heterotrophs that can not make their own food and some are both autotroph and heterotroph. Animal-like Animal-like protists, also known as protozoans, are all heterotrophs that can move in their surroundings to find food
Protists are organisms that are part of the biological kingdom called the protista. These organisms are not plants, animals, bacteria, or fungi. Protists are a very diverse group of organisms. They are basically all the organisms that don't fit into the other groups. 1 Flagella-Other protists have a long tail called flagella. 2  This tail can move back and forth helping to propel the organism. 3  Pseudopodia-This is when the protist extends part of its cell body to scoot or ooze along. 4  Amoebas use this method to move. 5  Many protists act as pathogens to humans.
Different kinds of protists get their food in different ways.  Some protists can move and can take in food like animals do.  Plant-like protists need to absorb the sun's ene … rgy in order to  make food inside their bodies. Other protists like fungus grow  above their food source to get nutrients. Some protists engulf  bacteria and digest them internally, by extending their cell  membrane and forming a vacuole around the bacteria. This bacteria  is then taken in by phagocytosis. 
Protists are organisms with eukaryotic cells (containing nuclei) and no specialized tissues. They are generally single-celled, but some protists are more complex. They live in water, often in aquatic environments. Some are significant pathogens, while others are important to the health of an ecosystem. Phytoplankton, many kinds of algae and kelp are all protist
Euglena are small organisms in the Protist Kingdom. Euglena gracilis is just one of many species of Euglena. They do not have common names like birds or trees, so we have to refer to them by their scientific name. Euglena are interesting because they are a sort of combination of plant and animal. They can make their own food like a plant, but they can also eat other things, like an animal. Euglena gracilis and other euglena are green because they eat green algae. They keep the algae inside their bodies and use it to make their own food.
One major type of protist is algae. Algae are protists that perform photosynthesis. Algae are very similar to plants. They have chlorophyll and produce food using oxygen and the energy from the Sun. However, they are not considered plants because they do have specialized organs or tissues. 1 Flagella-Other protists have a long tail called flagella. 2  This tail can move back and forth helping to propel the organism. 3  Pseudopodia-This is when the protist extends part of its cell body to scoot or ooze along. 4  Amoebas use this method to move. 5  Many protists act as pathogens to humans.