The secretion of endogenous insulin is a response of the beta cells to a stimulus. The primary stimulus is glucose; others are amino acids, particularly leucine, and the 'gut hormones', such as secretin, pancreozymin and gastrin. The major fuel-regulating hormone, it is secreted into the blood in response to a rise in concentration of blood glucose or amino acids. Insulin promotes the storage of glucose and the uptake of amino acids, increases protein and lipid synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis.
Interpretation. A standard insulin test is positive for endogenous insulin and exogenous insulin. In addition, there is a minimal cross-reaction with proinsulin and insulinlike growth factors 1 and 2, with the degree of variability depending on the brand of the testing toolkit and technique used. 
C-peptide testing can be used for a few different purposes. C-peptide is a substance produced by the beta cells in the pancreas when proinsulin splits apart and forms one molecule of C-peptide and one molecule of insulin. Insulin is the hormone that is vital for the body to use its main energy source, glucose. 
Patients suffering from the are treated by doses of insulin produced by sources external to the body of the patient and administered in addition to the endogenous insulin. This type of insulin produced by sources other than human body is called exogenous insulin. Endogenous insulin is the insulin your pancreas makes which means it is coming from your body. Exogenous would be like giving someone insulin-a type I diabetic who no longer makes insulin would need exogenous insulin to keep blood sugars under control. Now, Type I and Type II are treated very differently and should be
(Answer #1). Insulin is a polypeptide hormone produced by body that regulate the metabolism of carbohydrates and fat in the body.This insulin is produced in the human body by the pancreas.The insulin produced within human body is called endogenous insulin. Endogenous insulin is the insulin your pancreas makes which means it is coming from your body. Exogenous would be like giving someone insulin-a type I diabetic who no longer makes insulin would need exogenous insulin to keep blood sugars under control. Now, Type I and Type II are treated very differently and should be
Insulin is a hormone that is produced and stored in the beta cells of the pancreas. Insulin helps transport glucose, the body's main source of energy, from the blood to within cells. If a person makes too little insulin or is resistant to its effects, cells starve. 1 Monitor the amount of insulin produced by the beta cells in the pancreas (endogenous); in this case, a C-peptide test may also be done. 2  Insulin and C-peptide are produced by the body at the same rate as part of the conversion of proinsulin to insulin in the pancreas
The secretion of endogenous insulin is a response of the beta cells to a stimulus. The primary stimulus is glucose; others are amino acids, particularly leucine, and the 'gut hormones', such as secretin, pancreozymin and gastrin. 
Health professionals who treat people with diabetes often apply these terms to insulin: Endogenous insulin refers to the insulin the pancreas makes, and exogenous insulin refers to the insulin people inject or infuse via an insulin pump. 