Unlikely: The lateral (or fibular) collateral ligament does not typically cause pain. An injury to the fcl can cause instability in the knee. Unlike the mcl, when it is injured, it does not heal as readily and actually doesn't hurt as much to touch it. Have I torn my lateral collateral ligament in my knee. 7. No, but often: The lateral (fibular) collateral ligament is uncommonly injured, but if it is injured in the setting of other ligament injuries (acl, pcl), it needs to be reconstructed to help prevent the other ligament surgeries from stretching out over time.
Hi, thanks for writing to HCM. Ultrasoud finding of Hypoechoic thickening in the Medial collateral ligament (MCL) is an abnormal finding and suggests injury to the MCL. Absolute rest is to be given to the joint and a knee support or splint is to be used for a period of 3 weeks. 
The medial collateral ligament (MCL) of the knee is visualized clearly on ultrasound examination, as are the major components of the lateral ligamentous complex, the iliotibial band, the popliteal tendon, the lateral collateral ligament proper, and the biceps femoris tendon. Ulnar collateral ligament of the thumb. The normal radial collateral ligaments and UCLs are visualized easily with high-frequency transducers as hyperechoic bands. On ultrasound, the ligament is examined primarily in the longitudinal (coronal) and transverse planes.
Share |. The medial collateral ligament (MCL) is the most frequently injured ligament of the knee. Structurally, the MCL is more firmly attached to the knee than the lateral collateral ligament and most injuries usually occur on the more exposed lateral side, which exerts most of the stress onto the medial side.
Nowhere is this more evident than in the evaluation of internal derangements of the knee. MRI is an accurate and cost-effective means of evaluating a wide spectrum of knee injuries, ranging from cruciate-collateral ligament injuries to cartilage deficiencies. Grade II medial collateral ligament tear seen on a coronal proton density image shows slight thickening of the medial collateral ligament and separation from the underlying cortices (arrows).
I had a cortisone injection into the portal area in spring 2010 and did not really ease or reduce the knee pain. On the report it said that I had a thickening of the collateral ligament. Could my medial collateral ligament that is thicker then it should be, causing the pain on the medial side by the portal area. Thickened collateral ligament! « on: February 28, 2011, 04:04:18 PM ». I had a ultrasound done in the summer of 2010 on my right knee as I was getting a lot of pain on the medial side of my knee by the portal area after having had my medial plica and fat pad removed in November 2009.
More commonly, they are associated with other soft tissue injuries of the knee, such as anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears and medial meniscal tears (O'Donoghue's unhappy triad). Of complete MCL tears, 73% are associated with additional significant knee injuries, usually an ACL tear. Grade II medial collateral ligament tear seen on a coronal proton density image shows slight thickening of the medial collateral ligament and separation from the underlying cortices (arrows).
Injuries to the medial side of the knee are most commonly isolated to these ligaments. A thorough understanding of the anatomy and function of the medial knee structures, along with a detailed history and physical exam, are imperative to diagnosing and treating these injuries. The dMCL is a thickening of the medial aspect of the capsule surrounding the knee. It originates on the femur 1 cm distal to the sMCL origin and inserts 3–4 mm distal to the joint line. It runs parallel to and underneath the sMCL.
For interpreting radiologists and clinicians, evaluation of an injured knee using MRI requires knowledge of the proper imaging techniques, normal and aberrant anatomy, and the clinical significance of detected abnormalities. A coronal, proton-density (PD) MRI scan of the medial collateral ligament (MCL) is seen below. Grade II medial collateral ligament tear seen on a coronal proton density image shows slight thickening of the medial collateral ligament and separation from the underlying cortices (arrows).
What does it mean there is an abnormal focal region acl. 3. Read below: Chondrocalcinosis is abnormal deposits of calcium typically at the meniscus. The medial collateral ligaments (mcl) fibers are on the inside part of the knee. An abnormal focal region of the acl means that the acl has degenerated a bit. This can happen with age (unfortunately) or it can happen after an injury. Have I torn my lateral collateral ligament in my knee. 7. No, but often: The lateral (fibular) collateral ligament is uncommonly injured, but if it is injured in the setting of other ligament injuries (acl, pcl), it needs to be reconstructed to help prevent the other ligament surgeries from stretching out over time.