Dr Ayush Goel and Radswiki et al. Butterfly vertebra is a type of vertebral anomaly that results from the failure of fusion of the lateral halves of the vertebral body because of persistent notochordal tissue between them. 1  an anterior spina bifida, with or without an anterior meninogocoele. Radiograph. The involved vertebral body is widened, and the bodies above and below the butterfly vertebra adapt to the altered intervertebral discs on either side by showing concavities along the adjacent endplates.
Butterfly vertebrae have a sagittal cleft through the body of the vertebrae and a funnel shape at the ends. This gives the appearance of a butterfly on an x-ray. It is caused by persistence of the notochord (which usually only remains as the center of the intervertebral disc) during vertebrae formation. Hemivertebrae are wedge-shaped vertebrae and therefore can cause an angle in the spine (such as kyphosis, scoliosis, and lordosis). Among the congenital vertebral anomalies, hemivertebrae are the most likely to cause neurologic problems. The most common location is the mid thoracic vertebrae, especially the eighth (T8)
block vertebra. anomalous development in which two or more vertebrae are fused. butterfly vertebra. anomalous development of a vertebra that is nearly divided in half by a longitudinal defect; caused by the persistence of the sagittal membrane remnant of the notochord. The vertebral body resembles a butterfly on ventrodorsal radiographs.
Butterfly vertebra is a rare congenital anomaly associated with syndromes such as Pfeiffer, Jarcho-Levin, Crousen, Alagille. In the literature, only a few cases of butterfly vertebra have been reported as incidental finding. 3. Discussion. A butterfly vertebra is said to be the result of a sagittal cleft caused by the persistence of the notochord. It is often associated with rib and/or vertebral anomalies such as bars, supernumerary lumbar vertebrae, and spina bifida [9] .
Butterfly vertebra is an uncommon congenital spinal anomaly. Only a small number of cases with butterfly vertebra have thus far been reported in the literature.We herewith describe a 32-year-old male admitted to our clinic with low back pain. He has been suffering from low back pain since early adolescence. 
butterfly vertebra. Definitions: 1. a hemivertebra or sagittally cleft vertebra that has a butterfly configuration on frontal radiographs; congenital in origin. The definition information for butterfly vertebra is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here
Your spine is made up of small bones that stack one on top of the other. These are called vertebrae. Some people have a benign (not harmful) abnormality called butterfly vertebrae. Butterfly vertebrae have a cleft, an indentation or opening, through the middle. If you look at it with an x-ray, the shape reminds you of a butterfly. 
Case Discussion: The butterfly vertebra belongs to the anterior formation failure in the classification; it is the vertebra with 1 pedicle on each side and partial defect of the vertebral body. This type of formation failure is usually included in the congenital kyphosis because many butterfly vertebrae are clinically observed with symmetrical partial defects of the center of the vertebral body that result in anterior wedge-shaped vertebrae.