The most common cause is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), which accounts for 32% of all peripheral vertigo. Other causes include Meniere'ménière s (disease12), % superior canal dehiscence, syndrome, labyrinthitis and visual. vertigo Meniere'ménière s disease frequently presents with, recurrent spontaneous attacks of severe vertigo in combination with ringing in the (ears), tinnitus a feeling of pressure or fullness in the (ear aural), fullness severe nausea or, vomiting, imbalance and hearing. Loss as the disease, worsens hearing loss will. progress
Other causes of dizziness. 1  Neurological conditions. 2  Some neurological disorders — such as Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis — can lead to progressive loss of balance. 3  Medications. 4  Dizziness can be a side effect of certain medications — such as anti-seizure drugs, antidepressants, sedatives and tranquilizers. 1 Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). 2  This condition causes an intense and brief but false sense that you're spinning or moving. 3  These episodes are triggered by a rapid change in head movement, such as when you turn over in bed, sit up or experience a blow to the head. 4  BPPV is the most common cause of vertigo.
Symptoms. The primary signs and symptoms of Meniere's disease are: 1  Recurring episodes of vertigo. 2  Vertigo is similar to the sensation you experience if you spin around quickly several times and suddenly stop. 3  You feel as if the room is still spinning, and you lose your balance. The primary signs and symptoms of Meniere's disease are: 1  Recurring episodes of vertigo. 2  Hearing loss. 3  Ringing in the ear (tinnitus). 4  Feeling of fullness in the ear.
Vertigo is the most common type of dizziness. The most common diseases that result in vertigo are benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, Meniere'ménière s, disease and. Labyrinthitis less common causes include, stroke brain, tumors brain, injury multiple, sclerosis and. migraines Meniere'ménière s disease frequently presents with, recurrent spontaneous attacks of severe vertigo in combination with ringing in the (ears), tinnitus a feeling of pressure or fullness in the (ear aural), fullness severe nausea or, vomiting, imbalance and hearing. Loss as the disease, worsens hearing loss will. progress
Vertigo is not a disease; it is a symptom of disease. Just like pain in your leg can be caused by many different things-bumping into something, fracture of the bone, clogged blood vessels”¦ - so too can the sensation of vertigo be produced in many different ways. 
Meniere's disease. This is an inner ear disorder thought to be caused by a buildup of fluid and changing pressure in the ear. It can cause episodes of vertigo along with ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and hearing loss. Vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis. This is an inner ear problem usually related to infection (usually viral). The infection causes inflammation in the inner ear around nerves that are important for helping the body sense balance. Less often vertigo may be associated with: 1  Head or neck injury. 2  Brain problems such as stroke or tumor.
1 Meniere's disease is composed of a triad of symptoms including episodes of vertigo, ringing in the ears (tinnitus), and hearing loss. 2  People with this condition have the abrupt onset of severe vertigo and fluctuating hearing loss as well as periods in which they are symptom-free. Vertigo can be caused by problems in the brain or the inner ear. 1  Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common form of vertigo and is characterized by the brief sensation of motion lasting 15 seconds to a few minutes.
Signs and Symptoms of Meniere's Disease-Dizziness. Conditions related to the vestibular (balance) nerve, such as dizziness, are often examined in relation to Meniere's Disease. These can have varying degrees of debilitation, the worst being drop attacks. Dizziness is somewhat different than vertigo. 