Only apply for 'an emergency passport' if you need to travel before you can get a replacement passport. Stolen Passports. If your passport has been stolen you must contact the local police and report it. Also make sure you retain any and all crime report details and any reference numbers given to you by the police as you may need these in your application form. What to do if you lose your passport abroad. If you are a British national and your UK passport has been lost, stolen or expired while you are abroad you can use an emergency travel document also known as 'an emergency passport' to leave the country you are in and return back to your destination.
Due to the importance of this particular document, you should report the theft or loss immediately. If you would like to report your own U.S. passport as lost or stolen you can either: 1  Call the U.S. Department of State at (877) 487-2778 or (888-874-7793 for TTY). 2  OR. 3  Complete a Statement Regarding a Lost of Stolen U.S. Passport Book And/Or Card (Form DS-64), sign the statement, and mail it to the address on the form. 
If you have lost your passport or it has been stolen in a foreign country, you should contact the nearest Canadian government officials at a consulate or the embassy nearest to your location immediately to report the loss. The faster you place the report, the less likely your passport will be used inappropriately. Whether you have lost your passport, it has been stolen, or you aren’t sure what happened, it is vital that you report the loss to the Canadian officials as soon as possible. A Canadian passport in the wrong hands can result in illegal use of your travel documents to enter Canada or other countries
Only apply for 'an emergency passport' if you need to travel before you can get a replacement passport. Stolen Passports. If your passport has been stolen you must contact the local police and report it. Also make sure you retain any and all crime report details and any reference numbers given to you by the police as you may need these in your application form. What to do if you lose your passport abroad. If you are a British national and your UK passport has been lost, stolen or expired while you are abroad you can use an emergency travel document also known as 'an emergency passport' to leave the country you are in and return back to your destination.
Report. Report the loss of your passport to the State Department at 1-877-487-2778. Once you report your passport lost or stolen, your passport is no longer valid for travel and cannot be revalidated. If you recover your passport after it has been reported, send it to the State Department at: U.S. Department of State. Replacement Forms. To obtain a replacement for your lost passport in the United States, you must fill out forms DS-11 and DS-64. Form DS-11 is the application form for a passport and form DS-64 is a statement of loss form.
Losing a passport can be a stressful situation, especially if you have scheduled international travel. If you lose your passport in the United States, you must report the loss to the State Department immediately to prevent the fraudulent use of your passport and to start the process of obtaining a replacement. Replacement Forms. To obtain a replacement for your lost passport in the United States, you must fill out forms DS-11 and DS-64. Form DS-11 is the application form for a passport and form DS-64 is a statement of loss form.
If you lose a U.S. passport or it gets stolen while you are stateside, report its loss immediately to the U.S. Department of State and, if necessary, file a police report. Ideally, you should have a photocopy of your passport so that you can record the passport ID number and issue/expiration dates. To obtain a replacement passport, download and complete form DS-11, Application for a U.S. Passport (see Resources for link). Since this application must be submitted in person to a passport agency or an acceptance facility such as a post office, make an appointment at your post office to expedite the process.
If a passport is lost or stolen while home in the U.S., an easy but necessary process can be followed to report its loss and obtain a replacement (loss outside the U.S. is more difficult because the U.S. embassies cannot issue passports). Other People Are Reading. To obtain a replacement passport, download and complete form DS-11, Application for a U.S. Passport (see Resources for link). Since this application must be submitted in person to a passport agency or an acceptance facility such as a post office, make an appointment at your post office to expedite the process.