Meaning of Ebenezer. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Ebenezer means-Rock or stone of help. Famous bearer: the Old Testament Samuel gave the name Ebenezer to a stone set up in recognition of Gods assistance in defeating the Philistines; miserly Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens novel A Chnsitmas Carol.. Other origins for the name Ebenezer include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Ebenezer is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Rock or stone of help. Famous bearer: the Old Testament Samuel gave the name Ebenezer to a stone set up in recognition of Gods assistance in defeating the Philistines; miserly Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens novel A Chnsitmas Carol. Origin-Hebrew
Ebenezer is an unusual given name for men but a somewhat prominent last name for both adults and children (#147095 out of 150436, Top 98%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the boy name Ebenezer and corresponding names. The only popular alternative form of Ebenezer (outside Top 1000) appearing in the Top 1000 is Eben. Adoption of this boy name was at its apex during the years 1880-1889 (usage of 0.287%) and is now much less.
The name Ebenezer is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Ebenezer is: Rock or stone of help. Famous bearer: the Old Testament Samuel gave the name Ebenezer to a stone set up in recognition of God's assistance in defeating the Philistines; miserly Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens' novel 'A Chnsitmas Carol'. SoulUrge Number: 2
Meanings and history of the name Ebenezer: | Edit. Means stone of help in Hebrew. This was the name of a monument erected by Samuel in the Old Testament. The name was used by Charles Dickens for the miserly character Ebenezer Scrooge in his novel 'A Christmas Carol' (1843).
Hello, Guest. Ebenezer is the name of a biblical place --the stone set up by Samuel to mark his victory over the Philistines--rather than a person. It was adopted by the British Puritans as a first name and then exported to America, where it had some early popularity, even entering the Top 1000 in the 1880s. Eben-Ezer, biblical location (its meaning [stone of help] made clear in I Samuel 7:12: Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpeh and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying Hitherto hath the Lord helped us.).
Means stone of help in Hebrew. This was the name of a monument erected by Samuel in the Old Testament. Charles Dickens used it for the miserly character Ebenezer Scrooge in his novel 'A Christmas Carol' (1843). Related Names. 
Advertisement. The name “Ebenezer” was not original to the English language. In fact, it was an anglicized version of a Hebrew name, which is itself composed of two Hebrew words. In 1 Samuel 4:1, for example, the Israelities camped at a place called Ebenezer. This name is a combination of the Hebrew word for stone (eben) and the Hebrew word for helper (‘ezer). In English, Ebenezer is a man’s name. Today it is quite uncommon, apart from its association with A Christmas Carol. In the time of Charles Dickens, men were called Ebenezer, though I’m not able to judge how common the name was.
Ebenezer /ebe-nez-er/ [4 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Ebenezer is stone of help. Biblical: name of a memorial stone set up by the prophet Samuel to mark a critical battle and victory in Jewish history. First used as a given name by the Puritans in the 17th century. Literary: Ebenezer Scrooge is a character in Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the boy name Ebenezer and corresponding names. The only popular alternative form of Ebenezer (outside Top 1000) appearing in the Top 1000 is Eben. Adoption of this boy name was at its apex during the years 1880-1889 (usage of 0.287%) and is now much less.