The duration of the infrared sauna sessions your body can tolerate will gradually increase as you become accustomed to the sauna experience. An average sauna session lasts between 25 and 35 minutes, but some people like to extend their sessions to 45 minutes or even an hour. However, no matter how acclimated you are to infrared sauna sessions or what kind of physical condition you're in, you should never let your sessions last longer than 60 minutes. Several factors will influence how long to stay in an infrared sauna, but one of the most important factors involves how your body is reacting to the sauna session. Always listen to what your body is telling you, because you don't want to overdo things by staying too long in an infrared sauna.
A traditional sauna generally takes between 30 and 45 minutes to fully heat up. During this time, the rocks will be heated to the perfect temperature for soft heat and soft steam. With the addition of a Saunatonttu heater, the sauna heat up time is halved. It akes about 10 minutes for an infrared sauna to heat up. A Finnleo sauna experience can be truly relaxing and rewarding, but don't stay in the sauna for extended periods of time. Set the temperature and humidity level (if you are using a traditional sauna) to your ideal level.
If you opt for the 10-minute intervals, a lukewarm shower of about 70 degrees will be enough to cool you down but not freeze you out. You can start by spending 10 minutes in the sauna and work your way up to longer periods. For your first time in the sauna, stay just long enough to break a sweat. In their book Ultimate You, Joe Dowdell and Brooke Kalanick advise taking a sauna one or two hours after your workout for optimal results. However, not everyone's schedule is flexible enough to allow a return trip to the gym, so Dowdell and Kalanick also note that a stint in the sauna right after a workout is OK, too.
Once you're in the sauna you don't have to stay long. One 15- to 20-minute session or three 10-minute periods broken up with a brief, cooling shower will be enough time without overdoing it. In their book Ultimate You, Joe Dowdell and Brooke Kalanick advise taking a sauna one or two hours after your workout for optimal results. However, not everyone's schedule is flexible enough to allow a return trip to the gym, so Dowdell and Kalanick also note that a stint in the sauna right after a workout is OK, too.
6. Avoid outstaying your welcome. The appropriate amount of time to spend in the sauna is around 15–20 minutes at the most, and less if you feel too hot or uncomfortable. It is better to go in and out, taking cooling down breaks, than to roast in it for too long. 7. Cool down gradually after the sauna.
This is because saunas can cause hyperthermia, a condition where the bodies temperature rises beyond where it is supposed to. The likelihood of have a health problem in a sauna depends on the temperature, how long you stay in, and if you have any health problems. Only your doctor who will know your health conditions (if any) can tell you how long you can stay in. In general, you should use common sense. He or she will be able to give you the best advice as to how long you can stay in the sauna with your past medical history in mind. The two of you can also discuss a healthy weight loss strategy that you can start with. Good luck.
after 20 minutes in a sauna at 130F i dont build up any sweat. i come from a place where its regularly 100F and 90% humidity for 10 months of the year. its really hard for me unless the sauna is over 150 to sweat. i think its different for everybody, some people can tolerate heat more than others. Add as Friend | Send Message. TIP for sauna use: If you do tend to get too hot, as I do, keep ice in water near the door, where it is cooler, and a washcloth to wipe your forehead face & neck at 5 - 10 minute intervals during the treatment.
How Often: For therapeutic use one should use the infrared sauna at least weekly. If one is very debilitated, start with once or twice per week and for only 10 to 15 minutes maximum. As you increase your comfort level in the infrared sauna, you may increase the time and frequency of use. Work up to daily use as one is able. When beginning an infrared sauna detoxification regimen, many people over-do it and stay too long. 
While this, too, varies between individuals-one can usually stay in the sauna until they begin to feel uncomfortable. Typically, remain in the sauna for about 10-15 minutes and then take a break to cool off for several minutes. Then you can feel free to return to the sauna for another inning.. A Finnleo sauna experience can be truly relaxing and rewarding, but don't stay in the sauna for extended periods of time. Set the temperature and humidity level (if you are using a traditional sauna) to your ideal level.