Cells are the basic building blocks of all living things. The human body is composed of trillions of cells. They provide structure for the body, take in nutrients from food, convert those nutrients into energy, and carry out specialized functions. Cells also contain the body’s hereditary material and can make copies of themselves.
Mitochondria are the organelles that function as the cell powerhouse, generating ATP, the universal form of energy used by all cells. It converts food nutrients such as glucose, to a fuel (ATP) that the cells of the body can use. Mitochondria are tiny sac-like structures found near the nucleus. Although there are specialized cells-both in structure and function-within the body, all cells have similarities in their structural organization and metabolic needs (such as maintaining energy levels via conversion of carbohydrate to ATP and using genes to create and maintain proteins).
The cell body, called the SOMA, is the main part of the neuron. It is the main metabolic center or region of the neuron. The neuron has 3 parts: DENDRITES (inputs), SOMA (ce … ll body), and AXON (output). The axon is the part which FIRES when sufficient inputs reach it at the axon hillock. 1 person found this useful. Confidence votes 81. The main part of the neuron, containing the nucleus and other organelles and serving as the site of the cell's metabolic reactions; processes input from the dendrites and if input is large enough relays to the axon, where an impulse is initiated.
Body functions are the physiological or psychological functions of body systems. The body's functions are ultimately its cells' functions. Survival is the body's most important business. Survival depends on the body's maintaining or restoring homeostasis, a state of relative constancy, of its internal environment. 
Human body has a number of cells and related tissues. Since the Cell is the basic unit of any tissue, it decides the type, nature and function of the tissues. A group of different types of cells form tissues in the human body and one or more types of tissues form organs. For more detailed study go through an anatomy & physiology book. These body organs working in mutual manner form the organ system
SUMMARY. The cell body of a neuron contains the nucleus and lysosomes and is the site of synthesis and degradation of virtually all neuronal proteins and membranes. Axons are long processes specialized for the conduction of action potentials away from the neuronal cell body. Each has profusely branched dendrites, (more...). The cell body contains the nucleus and is the site of synthesis of virtually all neuronal proteins and membranes. Some proteins are synthesized in dendrites, but no proteins are made in axons and axon terminals, which do not contain ribosomes.
5. Mitochondrium-this is the part of the cell responsible for the supply of energy in the form of ATP (adenosine triphosphate). Neurons need an enormous amount of energy. The brain is one of the most metabolically active tissues in the body. In man, for example, the brain uses 40 ml of oxygen per minute. With ribosomes, the ER is important for protein synthesis. Nissl Bodies-Groups of ribosomes used for protein synthesis. Cytosol-Is the watery and salty fluid with a potassium-rich solution inside the cell containing enzymes responsible for the metabolism of the cell.
An action potential originates at the axon hillock, the junction of the axon and cell body, and is actively conducted down the axon into the axon terminals, small branches of the axon that form the synapses, or connections, with other cells (Figure 21-2b). Each has profusely branched dendrites, (more...). The cell body contains the nucleus and is the site of synthesis of virtually all neuronal proteins and membranes. Some proteins are synthesized in dendrites, but no proteins are made in axons and axon terminals, which do not contain ribosomes.
The soma (pl. somata or somas), perikaryon (pl. perikarya), cyton, or  cell body is the bulbous end of a neuron, containing the cell nucleus. The word soma comes from the Greek σῶμα, meaning body. 