Symptoms. In organic heart disease, there can be an inflammation of the heart and scar like formation .These scars can cause deformation of valves and thereby malfunction. The muscular tissue of the heart may become softened or stretched. All these conditions are called organic diseases of the heart. Enlargement of the heart is also a kind of organic heart disease. And can consist of stretched muscles of the heart. or hypertrophy. There are several ways heart disease may develop, through a sudden inflammation, or to some other form of infection; but generally the development is gradually. 
Organic Brain Syndrome. Organic brain syndrome (OBS) is a general term for decreases in mental function that are not caused by a psychiatric disorder. Reduced mental function could include: 1  problems with memory. 2  difficulties understanding language. 3  changes in behavior. 4  trouble performing daily activities.
Organic anxiety disorder manifests itself as extreme or exaggerated worry over issues big or small due to a chemical imbalance in the brain. It may also be caused by a disease that affects the brain on a physical level. Definition of Organic Anxiety Disorder. Organic anxiety disorder affects people by causing them to exhibit extreme worry over situations that may or may not warrant so much mental power and time. For most, it is caused by an abnormal level of neurotransmitters in the brain
An organic mental disorder is a permanent or temporary dysfunction in the brain that is caused by physiological problems with the brain. The causes range from heredity to an injury of the brain to a disease that affects brain tissue or changes the chemical or hormonal levels of the brain. Organic Dissociative Disorder-This is characterized by problems with awareness, identity, memory, perception, or a combination thereof. Organic Emotionally Labile Disorder-Those who suffer from wild mood swings in both directions.
Organic Personality Disorder-Organic personality disorders deal with problems that cause people to not fit in well with the majority of society in an extreme fashion. Postencephalitic Syndrome-This is brought on during the late stages of Parkinson's Disease as the nerves break down. Organic Dissociative Disorder-This is characterized by problems with awareness, identity, memory, perception, or a combination thereof. Organic Emotionally Labile Disorder-Those who suffer from wild mood swings in both directions.
any disease involving body functions but not associated with detectable organic lesion or change. generalized disease. one involving all or many body systems; often said of infectious diseases in which there is spread via the bloodstream. 1. a disease subsequent to or a consequence of another disease or condition. 2. a condition due to introduction of incompatible, immunologically competent cells into a host rendered incapable of rejecting them by heavy exposure to ionizing radiation. self-limited disease. see self-limited.
An organic mental disorder (OMD), also known as organic brain syndrome or chronic organic brain syndrome, is a form of decreased mental function due to a medical or physical disease, rather than a psychiatric illness. This differs from dementia. 
A disease is a particular abnormal condition, a disorder of a structure or function, that affects part or all of an organism. The causal study of disease is called pathology. Disease is often construed as a medical condition associated with specific symptoms and signs. Non-infectious diseases are all other diseases, including most forms of cancer, heart disease, and genetic disease. Illness. Illness and sickness are generally used as synonyms for disease. However, this term is occasionally used to refer specifically to the patient's personal experience of his or her disease.
organic anxiety syndrome a term used in a former system of classification for an organic mental syndrome characterized by prominent, recurrent panic attacks or generalized anxiety caused by a specific organic factor and not associated with delirium. 1. a disease subsequent to or a consequence of another disease or condition. 2. a condition due to introduction of incompatible, immunologically competent cells into a host rendered incapable of rejecting them by heavy exposure to ionizing radiation. self-limited disease. see self-limited.