Polysaccharides are the most abundant carbohydrates. A polysaccharide molecule can contain thousands of glucose units. These highly complex carbohydrates include starches, cellulose, and glycogen. Starch is the usual form in which carbohydrates are stored as energy by plants. Plants can split starch into its simpler glucose units for use as energy when needed. Cellulose is known as a structural carbohydrate because of the fibers formed by its molecules.
In food science and in many informal contexts, the term carbohydrate often means any food that is particularly rich in the complex carbohydrate starch (such as cereals, bread and pasta) or simple carbohydrates, such as sugar (found in candy, jams, and desserts). In many animals, including humans, this storage form is glycogen, especially in liver and muscle cells. In plants, starch is used for the same purpose. The most abundant carbohydrate, cellulose, is a structural component of the cell wall of plants and many forms of algae.
Carbohydrates are organic compounds of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, which include starches, cellulose, and sugars. Carbohydrates are the most abundant class of organic compounds found in living organisms. Glucose is the main sugar metabolized by the body for energy. The body digests carbohydrates in foods, transforming them into glucose, which serves as the primary fuel for the brain and muscles. Glucose is also called blood sugar as it circulates in the blood at a concentration of 65-110 mg/mL of blood.
Carbohydrates Carbohydrates (also called saccharides) are molecular compounds made from just three elements: carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Monosaccharides (e.g. glucose) and disaccharides (e.g. sucrose) are relatively small molecules. They are often called sugars. Other carbohydrate molecules are very large (polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose). Carbohydrates are: 1  a source of energy for the body e.g. glucose and a store of energy, e.g. starch in plants.
The carbohydrates produced by plants are an important source of energy for animals. When animals eat plants, energy stored in carbohydrates is released in the process of respiration, a chemical reaction between glucose and oxygen to produce energy (for cell work), carbon dioxide, and water. Starch is the usual form in which carbohydrates are stored as energy by plants. Plants can split starch into its simpler glucose units for use as energy when needed. Cellulose is known as a structural carbohydrate because of the fibers formed by its molecules.
As noted here, the formulas of many carbohydrates can be written as carbon hydrates, C n (H 2 O) n, hence their name. The carbohydrates are a major source of metabolic energy, both for plants and for animals that depend on plants for food. Disaccharides made up of other sugars are known, but glucose is often one of the components. Two important examples of such mixed disaccharides will be displayed above by clicking on the diagram. Lactose, also known as milk sugar, is a galactose-glucose compound joined as a beta-glycoside.
Simple sugars. All carbohydrates are made up of units of sugar (also called saccharide units). Carbohydrates that contain only one sugar unit (monosaccharides) or two sugar units (disaccharides) are referred to as simple sugars. Simple sugars are sweet in taste and are broken down quickly in the body to release energy. 
Carbohydrates are compounds composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The carbohydrate group includes sugars, starches, and cellulose. Sugars and starches provide organisms with energy for cell functions, and cellulose is a fibrous substance making up plant cell walls. Starch is the usual form in which carbohydrates are stored as energy by plants. Plants can split starch into its simpler glucose units for use as energy when needed. Cellulose is known as a structural carbohydrate because of the fibers formed by its molecules.
1 The cell walls of bacteria are mainly made up of polysaccharides (types of carbohydrate). 2  Cellulose (a type of carbohydrate) makes up most of plant cell walls. 3  Carbohydrates are linked to many proteins and lipids (fats), where they are vitally involved in cell interactions. They are called carbohydrates because the carbon, oxygen and hydrogen they contain are generally in proportion to form water with the general formula C n (H 2 O) n.