Example sentences. 1  For these angles, the contradiction used to prove the corollary does not arise. 2  The fan theorem is, in fact, a corollary of the bar theorem; combined with the continuity principle, which is not classically valid, it yields the continuity theorem. 
A corollary (/ˈkɒrəlɛri/ KORR-əl-ur-ee or UK /kɒˈrɒləri/ ko-ROL-ər-ee) is a statement that follows readily from a previous statement. In mathematics a corollary typically follows a theorem. The use of the term corollary, rather than proposition or theorem, is intrinsically subjective. Proposition B is a corollary of proposition A if B can readily be deduced from A or is self-evident from its proof, but the meaning of readily or self-evident varies depending upon the author and context. The importance of the corollary is often considered secondary to that of the initial theorem; B is unlikely to be termed a corollary if its mathematical consequences are as significant as those of A. Sometimes a corollary has a proof that explains the derivation; sometimes the derivation is considered self-evident.
Well, they are basically just facts: some result that has been arrived at. 1  A Theorem is a major result. 2  A Corollary is a theorem that follows on from another theorem. 3  A Lemma is a small results (less important than a theorem). (That was a major result, so is a Theorem.). Corollary. (This is called the Angles Subtended by the Same Arc Theorem , but it’s really just a Corollary of the Angle at the Center Theorem). Keeping the endpoints fixed ...
1 For example, the theorem that all angles in a rectangle are right angles has as corollary that all angles in a square (a special case of a rectangle) are right angles. 2  A converse of a theorem is a statement formed by interchanging what is given in a theorem and what is to be proved. 1 For example, the converse to the theorem that two right angles are equal angles is the statement that two equal angles must be right angles, and this is clearly not always the case. 2  A generalization is a theorem which includes a previously proven theorem as a special case and hence as a corollary.
(Points: 1) Corollary is another term for theorem.- - - A corollary is a unique proposition unrelated to any theorem or postulate.- - -. Corollary is another term for postulate.- - - A corollary follows directly from a postulate or theorem. A corollary follows directly from a postulate or theorem. Get an answer
The proof of a theorem is often interpreted as justification of the truth of the theorem statement. In light of the requirement that theorems be proved, the concept of a theorem is fundamentally deductive, in contrast to the notion of a scientific theory, which is empirical. 1 For example, the converse to the theorem that two right angles are equal angles is the statement that two equal angles must be right angles, and this is clearly not always the case. 2  A generalization is a theorem which includes a previously proven theorem as a special case and hence as a corollary.
User: Which of the following statements is true? (Points: 1) Corollary is another term for theorem.- - - A corollary is a unique proposition unrelated to any theorem or postulate.- - - Corollary is another term for postulate.- - - A corollary follows directly from a postulate or theorem.
I want to check my answer. Corollary is another term for theorem. A corollary is a unique proposition unrelated to any theorem or postulate. Corollary is another term for postulate. A corollary follows directly from a postulate or theorem. I want to check my answer. Corollary is another term for theorem. A corollary is a unique proposition unrelated to any theorem or postulate. Corollary is another term for postulate. A corollary follows directly from a postulate or...
1. Which of the following statements is true? A. Corollary is another term for theorem. B. A corollary is a unique proposition unrelated to any theorem or postulate. C. Corollary is another term for postulate. D. A corollary follows directly from a postulate or theorem.