The most common meat tenderizer used in India is raw (un-ripened) papaya. The leaves, and green skin of raw papaya contain an enzyme called Papain. The connective tissue in the meat breaks down when it comes in contact with Papain. Papaya is preferred tenderizer for red meat (Lamb, Mutton, Goat, Beef). It can be used for fowl. You do not need to add salt. Adolph's meat tenderizer already has the salt. Add one teaspoon to 1 Tablespoon of water to make Papaya paste. You need 2 Tablespoon of Papaya paste for one pound of meat, it only hast 2 teaspoons of the Adolph's meat tenderizer.
A meat tenderizer is used to tenderize slabs of meat in preparation for cooking the meat. Pineapple and raw papaya are excellent meat tenderizers pineapple and papaya used as meat tenderizer. Ingredients. http://www.vahrehvah.com/meat-tenderi... Ingredients: 
In an older entry about using baking soda as meat tenderizer, I mentioned that my father once told me how papaya leaves can be used as meat tenderizer. The way I understood him, the papaya leaves are crushed, spread on the meat and allowed to infuse overnight. The papaya leaves are rinsed off before cooking. 
The papaya fruit and papaya seeds are a prime source of an enzyme called papain that breaks down protein. This active tenderizing ingredient is a protein-digesting enzyme which is very similar to human stomach pepsin. Papain powder made from papayas and other fruits are sold as brand name meat tenderizers. My father -- the cook in the family -- would use papaya seeds to tenderize tough cuts of meat. This is how he did it. First, use a mortar and pestle or spice grinder to grind the papaya seeds.
In United States, Papain is available in Grocery stores as Adolph's Meat Tenderizer. You can also buy Papain in tablet for at health food stores. If you score the skin of a raw Papaya with knife, the fruit will exude a milky white substance known as the latex that contains Papain. You do not need to add salt. Adolph's meat tenderizer already has the salt. Add one teaspoon to 1 Tablespoon of water to make Papaya paste. You need 2 Tablespoon of Papaya paste for one pound of meat, it only hast 2 teaspoons of the Adolph's meat tenderizer.
To make your own natural meat tenderizer, you can use fresh papaya seeds or dry papaya seeds -- just wash the seeds and spread them on a paper towel in a plate, then set the plate on a sunny window sill to dry for a few days. My father -- the cook in the family -- would use papaya seeds to tenderize tough cuts of meat. This is how he did it. First, use a mortar and pestle or spice grinder to grind the papaya seeds.
Papain is taken from the fruit of the papaya tree. It is used to make medicine. Papain is used for pain and swelling (inflammation) as well as fluid retention following trauma and surgery. 
Papain, also known as papaya proteinase I, is a cysteine protease (EC 3.4.22.2) enzyme present in papaya (Carica papaya) and mountain papaya (Vasconcellea cundinamarcensis). Papain belongs to a family of related proteins with a wide variety of activities, including endopeptidases, aminopeptidases, dipeptidyl peptidases and enzymes with both exo-and endo-peptidase activity.
Unripe Green Papaya. Unripe papaya contains an enzyme called papain. Even the leaves of the papaya tree contains this enzyme. Papain works as a meat tenderizer by breaking down the connective tissues of the meat that it comes into contact with. This works on all types of meat such as chicken, beef, lamb, and pork. So how does it work? It’s actually quite simple to do if you have a couple common kitchen utensils. To prepare a meat tenderizer using green papaya, you first take a whole green papaya and peel the skin of the papaya up to about 1 ⁄ 4 inch deep. You will know you have peeled deep enough when the white flesh of the papaya is exposed.