Temperature. Peas will sprout in 21 to 30 days if the soil temperature is 38 degrees Fahrenheit and the germination rate, or number of seeds that do sprout, will be low. At temperatures of 65 to 70 F the seeds will sprout within 7 to 14 days and the germination percentage will be in the high 90s for fresh seed. Above 75 F the germination percentage goes down quickly even though the seeds sprout quickly. Remember, these are soil temperatures, not air temperatures. Peas are a cool weather crop, but the seeds take a long time to germinate in cold soil. The length of time it takes for a pea seed to germinate depends on temperature, moisture and age of the seed.
If the seeds are damp it helps the inoculant stick to the seeds. Pea seeds generally germinate within a week. If conditions are optimal, I’ve had them germinate in only 4 or 5 days. (Except that year when voles tunneled along every row and ate every one of the pea seeds – a half pound of seeds! I replanted and rolled the seeds in cayenne pepper first, but they ate those too. how long does it take for the seed to germinate but I also need to know if they need to be soaked in water (and how long they might need to be in water). Best answer: Answer by BobKat. Soaking in water is helpful.
Germination. Pea seeds germinate in one to two weeks under ideal conditions. It may take up to a month for the seedlings to emerge if spring temperatures are low. Small pea sprouts resemble blades of grass when emerging from the soil and then develop two leaves before undergoing a growth spurt. Sowing. Plant pea seeds in the early spring once the soil temperature has reached 45 F. Do not plant while the soil is wet and sticky; wait until the soil does not stick to your gardening tools.
Harvest the black-eyed peas fresh or dried. For a fresh harvest, look for a good-sized bulge in the pod 60 to 70 days after germination. For a dried harvest, wait until the pods have turned brown or yellow, which can take 90 days or longer. Plant the seeds 1 to 2 inches below the soil surface. If you are transplanting them, especially for an early spring crop, use individual cell packs or soil blocks to start your black-eyed peas indoors so there is minimal damage to the roots during transplant.
How to Germinate Peas. Peas supply a wide variety of nutrients to your diet. Depending on the type--from sugar snap peas to dry peas to green garden peas-they provide high amounts of fiber, iron, protein, Vitamin C, lysine, tryptophan and carbohydrates. Peas are a cool-season crop, so indoor planting and germination should take place several weeks before the last frost in your area. This will ensure plenty of time for outdoor planting, growth and harvest before temperatures warm to the point where pea plants fail to grow and produce. Although you can plant pea seeds directly in the ground, horticulturists with the Oregon State University Extension Service and the University of Maryland College of Agriculture and Natural Resources advise that knowledge of how to germinate peas before planting ensures a better harvest.
The best temperature for germination is from 60 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit, but black-eyed peas will germinate from 40 to 80 F. As with bush beans, germination in ideal temperatures will take eight to 10 days, but it can take two weeks or more if soil temperatures are below 60 F. Plant the seeds 1 to 2 inches below the soil surface. If you are transplanting them, especially for an early spring crop, use individual cell packs or soil blocks to start your black-eyed peas indoors so there is minimal damage to the roots during transplant.
Plants. Black-eyed peas are not fond of being transplanted, so they are most often direct sown into garden beds. These plants do not take well to container gardening. Plant the seeds 1 to 2 inches below the soil surface. If you are transplanting them, especially for an early spring crop, use individual cell packs or soil blocks to start your black-eyed peas indoors so there is minimal damage to the roots during transplant.
A soil temperature below 40 F delays the germination of the pea seeds. Soil temperature in the range of 40 to 75 F is ideal for germination. Sowing. Plant pea seeds in the early spring once the soil temperature has reached 45 F. Do not plant while the soil is wet and sticky; wait until the soil does not stick to your gardening tools.
1 Peas prefer soil that is fertile, well drained and high in organic matter. 2  Peas usually take 50-to-70 days from germination to harvest. 3  Plant 2-to-3 oz. ( 4 56-to-85 g) of seed for each 100 feet (30 m) of row. Although you can plant pea seeds directly in the ground, horticulturists with the Oregon State University Extension Service and the University of Maryland College of Agriculture and Natural Resources advise that knowledge of how to germinate peas before planting ensures a better harvest.