The top food sources of vitamin A in the U.S. diet include dairy products, liver, fish, and fortified cereals; the top sources of provitamin A include carrots, broccoli, cantaloupe, and squash [ 4, 5 ]. An RAE cannot be directly converted into an IU without knowing the source(s) of vitamin A. For example, the RDA of 900 mcg RAE for adolescent and adult men is equivalent to 3,000 IU if the food or supplement source is preformed vitamin A (retinol).
Because the body converts all dietary sources of vitamin A into retinol, 1 mcg of physiologically available retinol is equivalent to the following amounts from dietary sources: 1 mcg of retinol, 12 mcg of beta-carotene, and 24 mcg of alpha-carotene or beta-cryptoxanthin. An RAE cannot be directly converted into an IU without knowing the source(s) of vitamin A. For example, the RDA of 900 mcg RAE for adolescent and adult men is equivalent to 3,000 IU if the food or supplement source is preformed vitamin A (retinol).
Two forms of vitamin A are available in the human diet: preformed vitamin A (retinol and its esterified form, retinyl ester) and provitamin A carotenoids [ 1-5 ]. Preformed vitamin A is found in foods from animal sources, including dairy products, fish, and meat (especially liver). By far the most important provitamin A carotenoid is beta-carotene; other provitamin A carotenoids are alpha-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin. An RAE cannot be directly converted into an IU without knowing the source(s) of vitamin A. For example, the RDA of 900 mcg RAE for adolescent and adult men is equivalent to 3,000 IU if the food or supplement source is preformed vitamin A (retinol).
Eggs, milk, and fortified cereals are good sources of preformed vitamin A. For plant-based provitamin A, the following foods are your best bets. Preformed vitamin A occurs naturally in dairy products, eggs, fish and meat, especially liver. Carotenoids are found in bright yellow and orange vegetables such as carrots, pumpkin and sweet potatoes, broccoli and spinach.
Liver. Beef and chicken liver are rich, natural sources of preformed vitamin A. In three ounces of beef liver, there are 30,000 IU (International Unit) of the vitamin, while there are 13,000 IU in the same amount of chicken liver. 
What are the best food sources? Preformed vitamin A (a.k.a. retinol) is found in foods of animal origin, such as liver, eggs, milk fortified with vitamin A, fortified cereals and fish.
A Debra Fulghum Bruce PhD, Healthcare, answered. The best food sources are beef and chicken liver, whole milk, cheese, and eggs. You get vitamin A from beta-carotene in carrots, mango, sweet potato, spinach, cantaloupe, kale, apricots, red pepper, broccoli, and fortified foods. Preformed vitamin A occurs naturally in dairy products, eggs, fish and meat, especially liver. Carotenoids are found in bright yellow and orange vegetables such as carrots, pumpkin and sweet potatoes, broccoli and spinach.
Dietary Forms. You consume vitamin A in one of two forms. Preformed vitamin A, also known as retinoids, is found in animal sources. Provitamin A carotenoids are from plant sources and include beta-carotene, alpha-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin. Your body doesn’t absorb beta-carotene as efficiently as preformed vitamin A because it must covert the former to retinal or retinol. For example, 12 micrograms of beta-carotene from food is equivalent to 1 microgram of retinol in your body
Vitamin A Rich Foods. Two of the best food sources of vitamin A are sweet potatoes and beef liver. Spinach and carrots also pack a powerful punch. If a fruit or vegetable is orange in color, it's usually a good tip that it contains vitamin A, for example pumpkins, cantaloupe, mangoes, apricots and eggs. Vitamin A is essential for immune function and the proper development of the body's cells. In this About.com video, learn what foods are rich in vitamin A, what it is, and why it's essential for good health.