Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
Chemical Rocks. Chemical rocks precipitate from water. These include carbonates (limestone and dolomite), evaportites (halite, gypsum, anhydrite), and chert (SiO 2). Most sedimentary rocks are derived by processes of weathering, transportation, deposition, and diagenesis. The final texture (grain size, shape, sorting, mineralolgy, etc.) in a sediment or sedimentary rocks is dependent on process that occur during each stage. 
Sedimentary rocks cover up to 75% of the Earth 's surface, record much of the Earth's history, and harbor the fossil record. Sedimentology is closely linked to stratigraphy, the study of the physical and temporal relationships between rock layers or strata. 1 Typically, the majority of carbonate rocks are composed of reef material. 2  Evaporites are formed through the evaporation of water at the Earth's surface and most commonly include halite or gypsum. 3  Chemical sedimentary rocks, including some carbonates, are deposited by precipitation of minerals from aqueous solution.
Most sedimentary rocks contain either quartz (especially siliciclastic rocks) or calcite (especially carbonate rocks). In contrast to igneous and metamorphic rocks, a sedimentary rock usually contains very few different major minerals. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
Sedimentology encompasses the study of modern sediments such as sand, silt, and clay, and the processes that result in their formation (erosion and weathering), transport, deposition and diagenesis. 1 Typically, the majority of carbonate rocks are composed of reef material. 2  Evaporites are formed through the evaporation of water at the Earth's surface and most commonly include halite or gypsum. 3  Chemical sedimentary rocks, including some carbonates, are deposited by precipitation of minerals from aqueous solution.
Answer by Jessica Rubio. Confidence votes 5. The Sedimentary rock is important in the rock cycle because it has a part in the cycle just like Igneous rocks and metamorphic rocks. If there was no Sedimentary rocks, there would be no rock cycle. In order to become a sedimentary rock a rock must be broken down or eroded by weathering. The sediments of the rock then go through the lithification process where they … are cemented and compacted together forming a sedimentary rock. 9 people found this useful.
There are four primary types of sedimentary rocks: clastics, carbonates, evaporites, and chemical. 1  Clastic rocks are composed of particles derived from the weathering and erosion of precursor rocks and consist primarily of fragmental material. 1 Typically, the majority of carbonate rocks are composed of reef material. 2  Evaporites are formed through the evaporation of water at the Earth's surface and most commonly include halite or gypsum. 3  Chemical sedimentary rocks, including some carbonates, are deposited by precipitation of minerals from aqueous solution.