The primary use of iron ore is in the production of iron. Most of the iron produced is then used to make steel. Steel is used to make automobiles, locomotives, ships, beams used in buildings, furniture, paper clips, tools, reinforcing rods for concrete, bicycles, and thousands of other items. Nearly all of Earth's major iron ore deposits are in rocks that formed over 1.8 billion years ago. At that time Earth's oceans contained abundant dissolved iron and almost no dissolved oxygen. The iron ore deposits began forming when the first organisms capable of photosynthesis began releasing oxygen into the waters.
Iron deficiency refers to a decrease in the amount of iron stored in the body, while iron deficiency anemia refers to a drop in the number of red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin within the RBCs, the end-stage of iron deficiency. 2. The form of iron that is easiest for the body to absorb is found in meats and eggs. Other iron-rich sources include: green leafy vegetables (such as spinach, collard greens, and kale), wheat germ, whole grain breads and cereals, raisins, and molasses.
iron out. Work out, resolve, settle. For example, They managed to iron out all the problems with the new production process, or John and Mary finally ironed out their differences. This expression uses ironing wrinkled fabric as a metaphor for smoothing differences. To remove some unevenness, such as a wrinkle or crease, from cloth by ironing: He ironed out the wrinkles from the shirt. She ironed the creases out. 2. To remove some obstacle or difficulty in the process of solving or compromising: The mediator ironed out the troubles between management and the union.
Iron is an essential mineral, with several important roles in the body. For example, it helps to make red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body. A lack of iron can lead to iron deficiency anaemia. Good sources of iron include: 1  liver. 2  meat. 3  beans. 4  nuts. 5  dried fruit – such as dried apricots. 6  wholegrains – such as brown rice. 7  fortified breakfast cereals. 8  soybean flour.
Iron (Fe) is the second most common metal on Earth, and the most widely-used metal. It is element 26, a transition metal in Group 8. Its symbol is Fe, from the Latin word for iron, ferrum. Its atomic number is 26 and its mass number is 55.85. It is used a lot because it is very strong and cheap. Iron is the main ingredient used to make steel. Raw iron is attracted to magnets, but it is not actually a magnet, however it can be used to make an electromagnet. 
Iron is a part of all cells and does many things in our bodies. For example, iron (as part of the protein hemoglobin) carries oxygen from our lungs throughout our bodies. Having too little hemoglobin is called anemia. Iron also helps our muscles store and use oxygen. 1 Iron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency and the leading cause of anemia in the United States. 2  Iron deficiency is due either to increased need for iron by the body or a decreased absorption or amount of iron taken in.
Iron corduroy and velvet carefully. You should not touch the iron to the surface of velvet or corduroy, but you can steam it. Use the steam function on your iron, while holding it roughly 1/2 from the surface of the wrong side of the item. Fill the iron's water reservoir (if it has one) with distilled water or bottled water to minimize mineral buildup on the iron and on the clothes. 1  If you want to add a pleasant scent to your clothes, soak a few sprigs of lavender into the water before you put it into the iron.
1. To remove some unevenness, such as a wrinkle or crease, from cloth by ironing: He ironed out the wrinkles from the shirt. She ironed the creases out. 2. To remove some obstacle or difficulty in the process of solving or compromising: The mediator ironed out the troubles between management and the union.
iron out something. to solve all problems that are still left The two sides need to keep talking until they iron out their differences. Etymology: based on the literal meaning of iron out small folds in cloth (to use a small, heated device to make cloth smooth). See also: iron, out. To remove some unevenness, such as a wrinkle or crease, from cloth by ironing: He ironed out the wrinkles from the shirt. She ironed the creases out. 2. To remove some obstacle or difficulty in the process of solving or compromising: The mediator ironed out the troubles between management and the union.