Follow @WhatsCookingUSA. Follow @WhatsCookingUSA. Capers are the unopened green flower buds of the Capparis spinosa (Capparidaceae-caper family-closely related to the cabbage family), a wild and cultivated bush that is grown mainly in Mediterranean countries (southern France, Italy, and Algeria) and also in California. 
Capers -- those salty, pea-sized dark green things -- are one of those ingredients you see a lot but may not fully understand. They're commonplace across many cuisines: You'll find them in Mediterranean dishes like chicken piccata or spaghetti puttanesca, and in French dishes like salade Nicoise. Sometimes capers are allowed to mature to a fruit about the size of an olive. These are sold as caper berries and are brined to be eaten like pickles or olives. It's common to see them included in an antipasti platter. Capers also aren't new to the culinary scene -- they've been around since ancient times.
Capers. Pronounce it: kay-per. Capers are the small flower buds of the Capparis shrub, which grows in the Mediterranean. As they're picked by hand they're fairly pricey but they're a versatile store cupboard ingredient, and are good for adding a distinctive sour/salty flavour to many savoury dishes
Dark green buds which are sun-dried and then packed in a vinegar brine. Capers range in size from tiny nonpareils from France, favored for their delicate texture and more pronounced taste to larger sizes, which are stronger in flavor and less aromatic. You can purchase stemmed caper berries, the size of a cocktail olive, from Spain.
There are a handful of ingredients that can really add life to a dish: lemon, vinegar, anchovies, olives -- and capers. David Rosengarten visited Pantelleria, Italy, or what he calls caper heaven.. He explains the difference between caper buds and berries and debunks a caper food myth that just won't go away. David Rosengarten: There’s a plant called capparis spinosa. When the plant creates a bud -- this starts every year in the spring -- this bud is going to be a flower. However, if you pick the bud before it becomes a flower, that’s a caper.
What do they look and taste like? Answer: Capers are the unripened flower buds of Capparis spinosa, a prickly, perennial plant which is native to the Mediterranean and some parts of Asia. 
A caper is the unopened flower bud of the prickly caper plant Capparis spinosa. It looks a bit like a dark green pea and is native to the Mediterranean region, where it is used widely. Capers are prized for the flavor they add to dishes such as Mediterranean Braised Chard and Pan-roasted Halibut with Caper Vinaigrette. 
The plant is best known for the edible flower buds (capers), often used as a seasoning, and the fruit (caper berries), both of which are usually consumed pickled. Other species of Capparis are also picked along with C. spinosa for their buds or fruits. The mature fruit of the caper shrub are prepared similarly and marketed as caper berries. The buds, when ready to pick, are a dark olive green and about the size of a fresh kernel of corn (Zea mays). They are picked, then pickled in salt, or a salt and vinegar solution, and drained.
Daniel Loiselle / Getty Images. In the culinary arts, capers are a condiment, usually pickled, that are made from the immature flower buds of the caper bush (Capparis spinosa), which grows in Mediterranean regions. Capers are used in a number of Italian recipes such as chicken piccata, veal piccata and pasta puttanesca. 