The Entangled Bank. Definition: Spindle fibers are aggregates of microtubules that move chromosomes during cell division. During prophase of mitosis, spindle fibers form at opposite poles of the cell. During metaphase, spindle fibers extend from the cell poles toward the midpoint of the cell known as the metaphase plate. Chromosomes are held at the metaphase plate by the equal forces of the spindle fibers pushing on the centromeres of the chromosomes. In anaphase, spindle fibers pull sister chromatids toward the spindle poles. Spindle fibers not connected to chromatids lengthen and elongate
Spindle fibers move chromosomes to the center of the cell during metaphase of cell division and break the chromosomes apart during Anaphase. During mitosis and meiosis the spindle fibers allow the chromosomes  to line up along the equator of the cell. The chromosomes slide to  either pole during cell division. 1 person found this useful.
The spindle apparatus, or simply the spindle, is a network of microtubules (also called spindle fibers) that forms within a dividing eukaryotic cell, both during mitosis and meiosis (see figure at right). Some of these microtubules attach to the cell walls, others attach to individual chromosomes at their kinetochores. It's the spindle that pulls the chromosomes from the metaphase plate to the poles. The radiating microtubules of the spindle form asters (see figure left) — aster is Greek for star.
Spindle fibers are necessary in mitosis as they help in bringing half the number of chromosomes on each side of the cell, so that when the cell divides, the chromosomes are distributed equally in both the daughter nuclei. During mitosis and meiosis the spindle fibers allow the chromosomes  to line up along the equator of the cell. The chromosomes slide to  either pole during cell division. 1 person found this useful.
The kinetochore /kɪˈnɛtəkɔər/ is the protein structure on chromatids where the spindle fibers attach during cell division to pull sister chromatids apart. The kinetochore forms in eukaryotes, assembles on the centromere and links the chromosome to microtubule polymers from the mitotic spindle during mitosis and meiosis. 
Spindle microtubules attach to a specific protein complex called the kinetochore, which is in the centromere area near the center of each chromosome. Other microtubules attach to the chromosome arms or to the other end of the cell. The chromosomes can also create microtubules, as can the spindle itself. The spindle and chromosomal microtubule arrangement is a macromolecular machine that is intricate and dynamic. Components. The spindle microtubules are protein fibers made up of as many as 45 different proteins that grow from the centrioles. They form a polymer, which is a large molecule made up of many similar molecules linked together.
Spindle fibers are protein structures that form early in mitosis, or cell division. They consist of microtubules that originate from the centrioles, two wheel-shaped bodies located in the centromere area of the cell. The centromere is also known as the microtubule organizing center. Components. The spindle microtubules are protein fibers made up of as many as 45 different proteins that grow from the centrioles. They form a polymer, which is a large molecule made up of many similar molecules linked together.
spindle fibers. Spindle fibers form a protein structure that divides the genetic material in a cell. The spindle is necessary to equally divide the chromosomes in a parental cell into two daughter cells during both types of nuclear division: mitosis and meiosis. During mitosis, the spindle fibers are called the mitotic spindle. At the beginning of nuclear division, two wheel-shaped protein structures called centrioles position themselves at opposite ends of the cell forming cell poles. Long protein fibers called microtubules extend from the centrioles in all possible directions, forming what is called a spindle. Some of the microtubules attach the poles to the chromosomes by connecting to protein complexes called kinetochores
The function of the spindle fiber is to guide the sister chromatids  to opposite poles. The spindle fibers are what the chromosomes  attach to. During mitosis and meiosis the spindle fibers allow the chromosomes  to line up along the equator of the cell. The chromosomes slide to  either pole during cell division. 1 person found this useful.