Anxiety, Bloating or fullness, Change in bowel habits and Constipation. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms anxiety, bloating or fullness, change in bowel habits and constipation including Irritable bowel syndrome, Gastroenteritis, and Constipation (adult).
1 Although psychological problems such as anxiety do not cause IBS, people with IBS may be more sensitive to emotional troubles. 2  Stress and anxiety may make the mind more aware of spasms in the colon. 3  IBS may be triggered by the immune system, which is affected by stress. It is not entirely clear how stress, anxiety, and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are related -- or which one comes first -- but studies show they tend to co-exist.
Regardless, IBS is known to be related to anxiety in some way, and many describe getting panic attacks during and after bowel movements as a result of their IBS. IBS has all of the problems of other bowel issues, including diarrhea, gas, and severe stomach discomfort. Finally, anxiety can also cause a feeling of needing to go to the bathroom even though it is not your regular time or you have already gone during the day. This is because when the fight or flight system is activated, pressure builds up inside of the body which can make stool feel like it needs to come out.
Re: Change in normal bowel habits. Yes anxiety can definitely cause changes in bowels. A light colored stool means that things are passing quickly through the digestive track, a sure sign of anxiety. And it's ok if it's not one long big piece...mine often comes out in small pieces as well. Anxiety causes a lot of digestive issues..
Your entire digestive tract is incredibly complex. In many ways there aren't any bowel issues that can't be caused by anxiety. In addition, it may be hard to specifically link anxiety and bowel problems. First make sure that you are suffering from anxiety at all with my free 7 minute anxiety test. Then use that information to fight your anxiety. Finally, anxiety can also cause a feeling of needing to go to the bathroom even though it is not your regular time or you have already gone during the day. This is because when the fight or flight system is activated, pressure builds up inside of the body which can make stool feel like it needs to come out.
Anxiety and Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). Anxiety may be a mental health issue, but it has a very real effect on your body chemistry. The stress from IBS changes your hormone production, alters your immune system, and in some cases, upsets your digestive tract. So it comes as little surprise that anxiety has been linked to contributing to the development of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), also known as spastic colon-a chronic condition that bloating, gastrointestinal discomforts, erratic bowel movements, chronic abdominal pain, diarrhea and constipation.
If you have IBS, your bowel movements may be stronger or slower than normal. “While there are multiple factors leading to irritable bowel syndrome, there is a strong association with psychological disorders such as anxiety and depression. You could have irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), a common chronic condition linked to psychological disorders such as anxiety and depression. IBS affects the large intestine or colon, which is the last portion of the digestive tract.
Transcript: Yes, it does, and very significantly. ● First, ongoing low-level stress and anxiety suppress the gastrocolic reflex — an unconscious action by the gastrointestinal tract that precedes a bowel movement; Cause and effect: This happens for several, biological, evolutionary, and personality-type reasons. 
By the way,... show more I was diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder, ocd, and panic disorder. About that time my bowel movements began to change: Alternating constipation and diarrhea, softer, narrower stools, sometimes mucus.