That device is the sphygmomanometer, which is used to measure blood pressure. The sphygmomanometer has been in wide use since the early 20th century, and consists of a cuff placed around the arm, as well as a device to measure the pressure at which blood flows freely, and the pressure at which blood flow is restricted.
A sphygmomanometer is medical device that is used to measure the blood pressure of a person. It consists of a cuff that can be inflated to stop the blood flow and mercury mete … r or manometer that is used to measure the blood pressure. It is commonly used along with the stethoscope. It is a device used to measure blood pressure, comprising an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, and a mercury or mechanical manometer to measure the pressure. It is alway … s used in conjunction with a means to determine at what pressure blood flow is just starting, and at what pressure it is unimpeded.
It is a device for measuring blood pressure. A sphygmomanometer (often condensed to sphygmometer) or blood pressure meter is a device used to measure blood pressure, comprising an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, and a mercury or electronic manometer to measure the pressure. It is a device used to measure blood pressure, comprising an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, and a mercury or mechanical manometer to measure the pressure. It is alway … s used in conjunction with a means to determine at what pressure blood flow is just starting, and at what pressure it is unimpeded.
When a sphygmomanometer is used, the cuff is inflated, usually around the upper arm, and the pressure is gradually released. A digital sphygmomanometer often operates at the touch of a button, and the blood pressure data is displayed on a digital screen. Many manual sphygmomanometers are also still in use, which usually require a medical professional to operate correctly. The sphygmomanometer has been in wide use since the early 20th century, and consists of a cuff placed around the arm, as well as a device to measure the pressure at which blood flows freely, and the pressure at which blood flow is restricted.
A digital sphygmomanometer is used to measure blood pressure, just like the manual one. The difference is that the process of making the measurement is done electronical … ly, and the display posts the results. It is a device used to measure blood pressure, comprising an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, and a mercury or mechanical manometer to measure the pressure. It is alway … s used in conjunction with a means to determine at what pressure blood flow is just starting, and at what pressure it is unimpeded.
A sphygmomanometer is medical device that is used to measure the blood pressure of a person. It consists of a cuff that can be inflated to stop the blood flow and mercury mete … r or manometer that is used to measure the blood pressure. It is a device used to measure blood pressure, comprising an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, and a mercury or mechanical manometer to measure the pressure.
Sphygmomanometer is a devise to measure blood pressure. A rubber cuff is placed around the upper arm, or sometimes the thigh, and inflated with air to pressure greater than that of the blood in the arteries. This temporarily stops the flow of blood. 
It is a device for measuring blood pressure.     A sphygmomanometer (often condensed to sphygmometer) or blood pressure meter is a device used to measure blood pres … sure, comprising an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, and a mercury or electronic manometer to measure the pressure. It is a device used to measure blood pressure, comprising an inflatable cuff to restrict blood flow, and a mercury or mechanical
There are two types of sphygmomanometers: ' 1  require a stethoscope for auscultation (see below). 2  They are used by trained practitioners. 3  It is possible to obtain a basic reading through palpation alone, but this only yields the systolic pressure. 4  Mercury sphygmomanometers are considered to be the gold standard. 1 Aneroid sphygmomanometers (mechanical types with a dial) are in common use; they may require calibration checks, unlike mercury manometers. 2  Aneroid sphygmomanometers are considered safer than mercury based, although inexpensive ones are less accurate. 3  A major cause of departure from calibration is mechanical jarring.