thyme. (tīm) , any species of the genus Thymus, aromatic herbs or shrubby plants of the family Labiatae (mint mint,in botany, common name for members of the Labiatae, a large family of chiefly annual or perennial herbs. Several species are shrubby or climbing forms or, rarely, small trees...... The Greeks used thyme as a temple incense, and it has been prized since ancient times as a honey plant. Thyme is classified in the division Magnoliophyta Magnoliophyta, division of the plant kingdom consisting of those organisms commonly called the flowering plants, or angiosperms.
thyme. The dried leaves and flowering tops of Thymus vulgaris (family Labiatae), used as a seasoning; it contains a volatile oil (t. oil) and is a source of thymol. 
Popular Varieties. 1  French and English Thyme – Most popular of the culinary types. 2  Citrus Thymes – A diverse group of thyme that consists of plants with lemon, lime and orange fragrances. 3  Wooly Thyme – Low carpet of grey, wooly leaves and pale pink flowers. 
thyme noun [U]. › an ​herb with sweet-smelling ​leaves that is used to ​flavor ​foods in ​cooking. (Definition of thyme from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). See all translations. 
Noun [edit]. thyme ‎(plural thymes). 1  Any plant of the labiate genus Thymus, such as the garden thyme, Thymus vulgaris, a warm, pungent aromatic, that is much used to give a relish to seasoning and soups. 
thyme noun [U]. › an ​herb with sweet-smelling ​leaves that is used to ​flavor ​foods in ​cooking. (Definition of thyme from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). 
thyme-leaves can be used as seasoning for almost any meat and stews and stuffings and vegetables. herb-aromatic potherb used in cookery for its savory qualities. common thyme, Thymus vulgaris-common aromatic garden perennial native to the western Mediterranean; used in seasonings and formerly as medicine. Translations. thyme. n. 1. (Plants) any of various small shrubs of the temperate genus Thymus, having a strong mintlike odour, small leaves, and white, pink, or red flowers: family Lamiaceae (labiates). [C14: from Old French thym, from Latin thymum, from Greek thumon, from thuein to make a burnt offering]. (taɪm; spelling pron
Medical Definition of THYME. : any of a genus (Thymus) of mints with small pungent aromatic leaves; especially: a garden herb (T. vulgaris) used in seasoning and formerly in medicine especially as a stimulant and carminative. 
Medical Definition of THYMOL. : a crystalline phenol C10H14O of aromatic odor and antiseptic properties found especially in thyme oil or made synthetically and used chiefly as a fungicide and preservative. ADVERTISEMENT. International Scientific Vocabulary, from Latin thymum thyme.