Report Abuse. a life sentence varies depending on the country or the state on which you are referring to. Normally a life sentence is a 20-25 year imprisonment and in some cases you can apply for parole a few years before you have completed your sentence. There are two kinds of life sentence: with and without parole. When a lifer is paroled, the parole persists for life, with the result that even a drunk and disorderly conviction can (often does) send the lifer back to the tank to finish his sentence.
Best Answer: It actually depends on the state. In some states a life sentence is exactly that, rest of life. This can be given with or without the possibility of parole. Some states life is considered 20 or 25 (or some other number) or years and natural life means for the rest of your natural born life. His sentence was reduced to life in prison due to the abolition of the death penalty in 1972 (California v. Anderson). He did not receive a term of years at all. He was sentenced to death and had it commuted to life.
By Ed Crump. Bobby Bowden is 60 years old and 34 years into a life sentence for murdering a manager and customer at a Fayetteville convenience store in 1975 while he was on parole.Now, the North Carolina Supreme Court has to decide whether Bowden should be released immediately. He says that's the length of a life sentence according to a law that was on the books from 1974 to 1978. The law reads, a life sentence shall be considered as 80 years.. It says what it means, and it means what it says in the clearest and most direct terms possible, explained Bowden's attorney Jane Allen.
A life sentence is a prison term that typically lasts for one's lifetime. However, an individual may be able to receive a sentence that could potentially allow them to be released at some point. For example, a judge may impose a sentence of 30 years to life with a chance for parole. This means that after the offender serves the first 30 years of the life sentence, the offender could possibly have the opportunity to get out of prison on parole to serve the remaining years of the sentence. 
Actually it depends on whether it is life or life without the possibility of parole. Life can be 25 years to life (they usually plea bargain to 15 to 20 years). Life without the possibility of parole is usually behind bars until the offender dies. There are two kinds of life sentence: with and without parole. When a lifer is paroled, the parole persists for life, with the result that even a drunk and disorderly conviction can (often does) send the lifer back to the tank to finish his sentence.
For example, sentences of 15 years to life or 25 years to life may be given; this is called an indeterminate life sentence, while a sentence of life without the possibility of parole is called a determinate life sentence. 
Confidence votes 30.7K. It depends on the type of sentence given. If the sentence is determinate sentencing, then the term is 30 years. If it is indeterminate sentencing, which is used nationally and more often, it can be anywhere from 40 years to the rest of their natural life or as little as 8 years. 
Life imprisonment (also known as a life sentence, lifelong incarceration or life incarceration) is any sentence of imprisonment for a serious crime under which the convicted person is to remain in prison for the rest of his or her life or until paroled. Brazil has a maximum sentence of 30 years under statutory law, but capital punishment and life imprisonment during wartime (for military crimes such as treason, desertion, and mutiny) are allowed in the Constitution.
For a life sentence for murder in New Zealand, the minimum sentence  is 10 years for simple single-victim cases and 17 years for  multiple victims and aggravated cases, alth … ough the judge can  impose a longer minimum sentence. A life sentence in the state of Ohio is a minimum of 30 years, to a maximum of 75 years for a natural life sentence. 28 people found this useful. Edit.
Life sentence, a life, life imprisonment 'is' 80 years in prison, or life imprisonment is 'defined' as 80 years in prison, Hart answered. Hart argues that the 80 years refers only to eligibility for parole review not release from prison. He says that's the length of a life sentence according to a law that was on the books from 1974 to 1978. The law reads, a life sentence shall be considered as 80 years.. It says what it means, and it means what it says in the clearest and most direct terms possible, explained Bowden's attorney Jane Allen.