The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Toe spasm. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Raynaud's disease. 2  Peripheral vascular disease. 3  Systemic lupus erythematosus. 4  Dermatomyositis. 5  Polymyositis. 6  Systemic sclerosis. 7  Wegener's granulomatosis. Misdiagnosis and Toe spasm. Leg cramps at night a classic sign: The symptom of having leg muscle cramps, particularly at night, is a classic sign of undiagnosed diabetes. However, there are also various other causes. See causes of leg cramps ...
While the issue of toe spasms is painful and annoying, it does not have to be continuous issue in your life. If you are unable to resolve these issues on your own, consult with your doctor about ways to reduce or resolve your toe spasms. These toe spasms, also known as cramps, are difficult to deal with if they happen regularly. This is particularly true if the cause is unknown. Toe spasms occur for a variety of reasons. Those that top this list, though, are shoe related.
The most common causes of foot or toe cramps or spasms are lumbago, muscle spasm, and gout. Other possible causes, such as injury to the shoulder, are more rare. Lumbago 9 Muscle spasm 9 Gout 9 Carpal tunnel syndrome 9 Skin polyp 5 Open wound due to trauma 5 Chronic constipation 5 Injury to the shoulder 5. 1  Lumbago 9. 
Foot Cramps. Foot cramps are caused by painful, intense, involuntary spasms of the muscles. They are usually short-lived but can be really unpleasant and recovery can take a few days. Foot cramps most commonly occur in the arch of the foot but people also complain of toe cramps and calf muscle cramps. They are often caused by fatigue, reduced levels of certain chemicals, hormonal factors and illness. Cramping can occur any time day or night and are often associated with exercise.
Toe spasm: Introduction. Toe spasm: Sudden involuntary contraction of the toe muscles. See detailed information below for a list of 10 causes of Toe spasm, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Toe spasm: Causes | Symptom Checker ». Misdiagnosis and Toe spasm. Leg cramps at night a classic sign: The symptom of having leg muscle cramps, particularly at night, is a classic sign of undiagnosed diabetes. However, there are also various other causes. See causes of leg cramps ...
Toe Spasms. spasms. More often than not, many people are relaxing with their feet kicked up and not really thinking about what is going on with their body. Relaxation comes to a halt when, out of nowhere, one of your toes decides to jerk out of position and cause writhing pain. These toe spasms, also known as cramps, are difficult to deal with if they happen regularly. This is particularly true if the cause is unknown. Toe spasms occur for a variety of reasons. Those that top this list, though, are shoe related.
Spasms. Hand or foot spasms are contractions of the hands, thumbs, feet, or toes and are sometimes seen with muscle cramps, twitching, and convulsions. These contractions of the muscles can be violent. Spasms of the hands or feet are an important early sign of tetany, a potentially life-threatening condition. Text Size: + -. Hand or foot spasms are contractions of the hands, thumbs, feet, or toes and are sometimes seen with muscle cramps, twitching, and convulsions.
Medical Conditions. Muscle cramps can be more common in people with medical conditions such as diabetes or liver disease. People with diabetes are at risk for peripheral neuropathy, a condition that causes damage to the nerves in your fingers and toes. When these nerves don’t function properly, you can experience pain and cramping. 