6 weeks ago I broke my tib/fib and got surgery that night to insert a rod in my entire tibia along with 3 screws and a plate and 8 screws in my fibula. They put a soft cast on it for a week and then removed it and gave me a boot.
I broke my tib-fib on my right leg. I had 2 plates and 21 screws internal fixation. I had 6 weeks of non weight bearing foot elevated the whole time. After week 6 I was started weight bearing in a walking boot and physical therapy, at 10 weeks put into a tennis shoe and continue physical therapy.
Fractures ofthese bones often result from a sport-related injury or motor vehicle ac-cident. Most fractures of the tibia and fibula (tib-fib fractures) healwithout complication, and the patient is able to resume his or hernormal activities. However, potentially serious complications can develop, and you mustbe aware of their early warning signs.
Her tib break was through the growth plate at her ankle and the fib break about an inch higher. No surgery, just a full leg plaster cast for about 4 weeks, at which tim it was cut down below her knee. at 6 weeks this was replaced w a fiberglass cast, then replaced again after a few weeks w a second fiberglass cast.
The lower tibia and fibula epiphyses form the lumps that we see and feel at the sides of our ankles and call ankle bones. The fancy name is malleolus (mah LEE o LUS). The medial malleolus is the inner ankle bone and the lateral malleolus is the outer ankle bone. Together they are the malleoli (mah LEE o LYE).
(redirected from tib-fib fracture). a fracture of the distal tibia and fibula in which the medial malleolus of the distal tibia and the lateral malleolus of the distal fibula are fractured.
Background. Lower leg fractures include fractures of the tibia and fibula. Of these two bones, the tibia is the only weightbearing bone. Fractures of the tibia generally are associated with fibula fracture, because the force is transmitted along the interosseous membrane to the fibula. The skin and subcutaneous tissue are very thin over the anterior and medial tibia and as a result of this, a significant number of fractures to the lower leg are open.