noun. Any of various predominantly aquatic arthropods of the subphylum (or class) Crustacea, including lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and barnacles, characteristically having a segmented body, a chitinous exoskeleton, paired jointed limbs, and two pairs of antennae. any of a subphylum (Crustacea) of arthropods, including shrimps, crabs, barnacles, and lobsters, that usually live in the water and breathe through gills: they have a hard outer shell and jointed appendages. Modern Latin Crustacea; from crustaceus, having a crust or shell; from Classical Latin crusta, crust.
The definition of a crustacean is an arthropod with a hard outer shell and jointed limbs that usually lives in aquatic environments. A lobster is an example of a crustacean.any of a subphylum (Crustacea) of arthropods, including shrimps, crabs, barnacles, and lobsters, that usually live in the water and breathe through gills: they have a hard outer shell and jointed appendages. Modern Latin Crustacea; from crustaceus, having a crust or shell; from Classical Latin crusta, crust.
: any of a large class (Crustacea) of mostly aquatic mandibulate arthropods that have a chitinous or calcareous and chitinous exoskeleton, a pair of often much modified appendages on each segment, and two pairs of antennae and that include the lobsters, shrimps, crabs, wood lice, water fleas, and barnacles. Definition of CRUSTACEAN for Kids. : any of a large group of mostly water animals (as crabs, lobsters, and shrimps) with a body made of segments, a tough outer shell, two pairs of antennae, and limbs that are jointed.
crus•ta•cean. 1. any chiefly aquatic arthropod of the class Crustacea, typically having the body covered with a hard shell, including lobsters, shrimps, crabs, barnacles, and wood lice. 2. belonging or pertaining to the Crustacea.
1. capitalized: a large class of mostly aquatic arthropods that have a chitinous or calcareous and chitinous exoskeleton, a pair of often much modified appendages on each segment, and two pairs of antennae and that include the lobsters, shrimps, crabs, wood lice, water fleas, and barnacles.2.efinition of CRUSTACEA. : arthropods that are crustaceans. ADVERTISEMENT.
Crustaceans are animals that usually have a hard covering, or exoskeleton, and two pairs of antennas, or feelers. People around the world eat many types of crustaceanfor example, crabs, lobsters, shrimps (or prawns), and crayfish. Barnacles, water fleas, and pill bugs are also crustaceans. All crustaceans are arthropods.
Crustaceans include crabs, lobsters, shrimp, and barnacles. insect, spider, crustacean-One major difference between insects, spiders, and crustaceans is the antennae; most insects have one pair, spiders have none, and crustaceans have two pairs. See also related terms for spider.rus•ta•cean. 1. any chiefly aquatic arthropod of the class Crustacea, typically having the body covered with a hard shell, including lobsters, shrimps, crabs, barnacles, and wood lice. 2. belonging or pertaining to the Crustacea.
Any of various predominantly aquatic arthropods of the subphylum (or class) Crustacea, including lobsters, crabs, shrimps, and barnacles, characteristically having a segmented body, a chitinous exoskeleton, paired jointed limbs, and two pairs of antennae.rus•ta•cean. 1. any chiefly aquatic arthropod of the class Crustacea, typically having the body covered with a hard shell, including lobsters, shrimps, crabs, barnacles, and wood lice. 2. belonging or pertaining to the Crustacea.