Sharing Printers with Others on Your Network. To share your printer. Open Printers and Faxes. Click Start, click Control Panel, click Printers and Other Hardware, and then click Printers and Faxes. Under Printer Tasks, click Add a printer to open the Add Printer Wizard, and then click Next. Click A network printer, or a printer attached to another computer, and then click Next. 
Open the Start menu on another computer on the network and click Control Panel, Printers and Other Hardware and then Printers and Faxes.. Step 2. Click Add a Printer under Printer Tasks and press Next to start the Add Printer Wizard. Step 3. Click the Sharing tab and press Share As.. Type in any name for the printer to identify it to other users on the network. Step 4. Push Additional Drivers if any computers on the network use a different operating system than the computer attached to the printer.
Share Printer. On the computer with the printer you want to share, open Advanced Sharing Settings and make sure File and Printer Sharing is turned on. Next open Devices and Printers from the Start menu, right-click on the printer you want to share, and select Printer Properties. Now on the Windows 7 machine you want to connect, click on Start and select Devices and Printers. In the Devices and Printers window click on Add a printer. Next select Add a network, wireless or Bluetooth printer …. Wait a moment while Windows finds the printer then click Next.
Connect your Windows PC to the network printer. Once your printer is connected to the network, you will need to add it in Windows. If you are using a Mac, see the next step. 1  Open the Control Panel and select Devices and Printers. 1 Open Chrome on a computer that can access the network printer. 2  Click the Chrome Menu button (☰) and select Settings. 3  Click the Show advanced settings link and then click the Manage button in the Google Cloud Print section. 4  Click Add printers.
Click Connect to this printer and type in the location of the printer in the format \\Computer\Printer, where Computer is the network name of the computer attached to the printer, and Printer is the name given to the printer during sharing. You can also browse the network to locate the printer instead. Step 3. Click the Sharing tab and press Share As.. Type in any name for the printer to identify it to other users on the network. Step 4. Push Additional Drivers if any computers on the network use a different operating system than the computer attached to the printer.
Here's what you need to know to get your Wi-Fi-enabled printer up and running. Connecting a wired printer is easy. Pick the right cable, and then plug one end into the printer and the other into a computer or network. Connecting a wireless printer, on the other hand, is ... well ... not as easy. 
2. Under Printer Tasks, click Add a printer to open the Add Printer Wizard, and then click Next. 3. Click A network printer, or a printer attached to another computer, and then click Next. 4. Connect to the desired printer using one of the following three methods. Click a method for instructions. 
Sharing the Printer. Open the Start menu on the computer directly connected to the printer and click Control Panel, Printers and Other Hardware and then Printers and Faxes.. Step 2. Right-click on the printer's icon and click Sharing.. If the computer has multiple printers, pick the correct model. Step 3. Click the Sharing tab and press Share As.. Type in any name for the printer to identify it to other users on the network. Step 4. Push Additional Drivers if any computers on the network use a different operating system than the computer attached to the printer.
7. Connect to the shared printer from other Windows computers on the network. The computer that is sharing the printer must be turned on. 1  Open the Control Panel and select Devices and Printers. 2  Click the Add a printer button at the top of the window. 1 Open Chrome on a computer that can access the network printer. 2  Click the Chrome Menu button (☰) and select Settings. 3  Click the Show advanced settings link and then click the Manage button in the Google Cloud Print section. 4  Click Add printers.