In most plants stems are located above the soil surface but some plants have underground stems. Stems have four main functions which are: 1  Support for and the elevation of leaves, flowers and fruits. 2  The stems keep the leaves in the light and provide a place for the plant to keep its flowers and fruits. The stem is normally divided into nodes and internodes: 1  The nodes hold one or more leaves, as well as buds which can grow into branches (with leaves, conifer cones, or inflorescences (flowers)). 2  Adventitious roots may also be produced from the nodes. 3  The internodes distance one node from another.
Examples of plants that have a tap root are carrots, radishesand turnips. Stems The stem grows upward from the roots. It holds the plant up and carries water fromthe roots to the other parts of the plant. Secondary stems, called petioles, grow from themain stem. These petioles have leaves growing on them. Leaves The leaves of a plant make the food the plant needs to survive. The water and nutrients that were taken in by the roots, move upward through the stem to the leaves.The leaves take sunlight and carbon dioxide from the air and convert the nutrients toplant food.
1 Support for and the elevation of leaves, flowers and fruits. 2  The stems keep the leaves in the light and provide a place for the plant to keep its flowers and fruits. 3  Transport of fluids between the roots and the shoots in the xylem and phloem. The stem is normally divided into nodes and internodes: 1  The nodes hold one or more leaves, as well as buds which can grow into branches (with leaves, conifer cones, or inflorescences (flowers)). 2  Adventitious roots may also be produced from the nodes. 3  The internodes distance one node from another.
The stem of a vascular plant has nodes where leaves and other structures may grow. [Figure5]. Another vital function of stems is transporting water and minerals from roots to leaves and carrying food from leaves to the rest of the plant. Without this connection between roots and leaves, plants could not survive high above ground in the air.
The edible portion is swollen leaves with a bit of stem. They are bulbs which, like garlic and leeks, are modified stems in which the primary storage tissue is expanded leaf bases. They come in white, yellow, and red varieties. Potato. The edible portion is an underground stem that is also a tuber. The edible portion is stem tissue, flower buds, and some small leaves. Cauliflower. The edible portion is proliferated stem and flower tissue. Celery. The whole plant is edible including the crisp petiole (leaf stalk) and the fleshy taproot.
Stems support the entire plant and have buds, leaves, flowers, and fruits. Stems are also a vital connection between leaves and roots. The edible portion is stem tissue, flower buds, and some small leaves. Cauliflower. The edible portion is proliferated stem and flower tissue. Celery. The whole plant is edible including the crisp petiole (leaf stalk) and the fleshy taproot.
1. Plants have three parts: the root, the stem, andthe carbon dioxide.2. Plants can live without water.3. Roots hold a plant in the ground.4. Plants and animals produce their own food.5. Stems carry water from the roots to the leaves.6. Food is make in the leaves of green plants.7. All leaves look alike.8. Green plants need sunlight.9. All plants have chlorophyll.10. Seeds store food.11. Leaves The leaves of a plant make the food the plant needs to survive. The water and nutrients that were taken in by the roots, move upward through the stem to the leaves.The leaves take sunlight and carbon dioxide from the air and convert the nutrients toplant food.
Vegetables have been divided into major groups: 1  Edible underground parts, such as roots, tubers, and bulbs. 2  Edible above ground parts, such as stems, leaves, and flowers. 3  Edible fruits and seeds, such as usually unripe fruits and seeds. The term vegetable refers to many things. Vegetables may be almost any part of a plant including: 1  Roots. 2  Stems. 3  Leaves. 4  Flowers. 5  Bark.
Nopal The edible portion is stem segments. Onion The edible portion is swollen leaves with a bit of stem. They are bulbs which, like garlic and leeks, are modified stems in which the primary storage tissue is expanded leaf bases. They come in white, yellow, and red varieties. Best Answer: Asparagus The edible portion is the rapidly emerging stems that arise from the crowns in the early spring. Bamboo The edible portion is the young shoot (culm). Birch Trunk sap is drunk as a tonic or rendered into birch syrup, vinegar, beer, soft drinks, and other foods.