Best Answer: The Moon has phases because it orbits Earth, which causes the portion we see illuminated to change. The Moon takes 27.3 days to orbit Earth, but the lunar phase cycle (from new Moon to new Moon) is 29.5 days. The Moon spends the extra 2.2 days catching up because Earth travels about 45 million miles around the Sun during the time the Moon completes one orbit around Earth. Re-worded it a little. One solar day = 24 hours, and 29.53 solar days is the synodic month. You are correct in saying it takes 27.3 solar days for the moon to orbit the earth-that's the sidereal month. But in addition to the moon orbiting the earth, the earth-moon system is orbiting the sun. That's why the sidereal and synodic months differ.
The Moon itself puts out no light at all. It takes about four weeks for the Moon to orbit once around Earth. During this time, the Moon's position relative to Earth and the Sun is constantly changing. During part of its journey, the Moon is between Earth and the Sun. Then, a few days later, it is off to one side
It takes the moon 29.5 days to go through all phases, from full moon, back to full moon for example. Relative to the background stars and ignoring the earth position relative … to our sun, the moon takes 27 days 7 hours and 43 minutes to orbit the earth-the sidereal orbit. 
A blue moon is the name for the second full moon in a single month. The moon takes 29.5 days to go through a full cycle of phases, so on rare occassions (about once every 2 3/4 years), two full moons will fit in a single month. This is rare that is why it is called the blue moon. 
How long does it take the Moon to orbit the Earth? The Moon takes about 27 days (27 days, 7 hours, 43 minutes, 11.6 seconds) to go all the way around the Earth and return to its starting position. The Moon's orbit around the Earth is a slightly squashed circle called an ellipse.
It takes the moon 29.5 days to go through all phases, from full moon, back to full moon for example. Relative to the background stars and ignoring the earth position relative … to our sun, the moon takes 27 days 7 hours and 43 minutes to orbit the earth-the sidereal orbit. The lunar cycle requires about 29 1/2 days (29.531 days). This is longer than the actual time it takes to orbit the Earth and to make a complete rotation (which are the same time). This is because the Earth and Moon are orbiting the Sun, the light from which is reflected by the Moon and observed on Earth
How long does it take our Moon to go around Earth? It takes 27 days, 7 hours, and 43 minutes for our Moon to complete one full orbit around Earth. This is called the sidereal month, and is measured by our Moon's position relative to distant fixed stars. However, it takes our Moon about 29.5 days to complete one cycle of phases (from new Moon to new Moon). This is called the synodic month. The difference between the sidereal and synodic months occurs because as our Moon moves around Earth, the Earth also moves around our Sun.
Report Abuse. The Lunar cycle or full moon to full moon is 29.53 days or 29 days, 12 hours, and 44 minutes. However the Moon takes 27.32 days to make one orbit around the Earth. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lunar_cycle. Marco S · 7 years ago.