Confidence votes 23.0K. A composer handles the composition. He/she creates the music and melodies of a certain piece. He determines the musical aspect of a piece. The librettist handles the libretto. In other words, he/she creates the text (the story) that accompanies the work of music. 
Full Definition of LIBRETTIST. : the writer of a libretto. See librettist defined for English-language learners. See librettist defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A libretto is the text used in, or intended for, an extended musical work such as an opera, operetta, masque, oratorio, cantata or musical. The term, libretto is also sometimes used to refer to the text of major liturgical works, such as the Mass, requiem and sacred cantata, or the story line of a ballet. Libretto (.
n. pl. li·bret·tos or li·bret·ti (-brĕt′ē). 1. The text of a dramatic musical work such as an opera, including the lyrics to be sung and sometimes interpolated spoken passages. 
librettist. n. 1. (Classical Music) the author of a libretto. 
3. Channeling John and Abigail. As an opera librettist you will labor blissfully at the tip of an inverted pyramid. One that grows to its awesome height, width, depth and weight only well after you – and your composer – have finished working. 
Libretto. (ləbrĕt`ō) [Ital.,=little book], the text of an opera or an oratorio. Although a play usually emphasizes an integrated plot, a libretto is most often a loose plot connecting a series of episodes. Characterization and emotion are suggested by the words of a libretto but are expressed by the music. The first major librettist was Ottavio Rinuccini, an Italian poet of the 16th cent
The story is based on Book IV of Virgil 's Aeneid. It recounts the love of Dido, Queen of Carthage, for the Trojan hero Aeneas, and her despair when he abandons her. A monumental work in Baroque opera, Dido and Aeneas is remembered as one of Purcell's foremost theatrical works. It was also Purcell's first opera, as well as his only all-sung dramatic work. For the myth on which the opera is based, see Aeneid. Dido and Aeneas (Z. 626) is an opera in a prologue and three acts, written by the English Baroque composer Henry Purcell with a libretto by Nahum Tate. The first known performance was at Josias Priest 's girls' school in London no later than the summer of 1689.
Full Definition of LIBRETTO. 1. : the text of a work (as an opera) for the musical theater. 2. : the book containing a libretto. See libretto defined for English-language learners. See libretto defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 