Catabolism (breaking larger molecules down into smaller ones) is important for several reasons: (1) Catabolism breaks large complex molecules into smaller, simpler molecules that can then be used (in anabolism) as building blocks for the more complex molecules that cells need to build and repair themselves. In metabolism, your cells use enzymes to precisely control the complicated multi-step chemical reactions that keep you alive. There are two main parts to metabolism: catabolism and anabolism. In catabolism, larger molecules are broken down into smaller molecules, releasing energy.
The enzymes present in an organism depend on the genes present in the organism. Catabolism refers to chemical reactions that result in the breakdown of more complex organic molecules into simpler substances. Catabolic reactions usually release energy that is used to drive chemical reactions. Anabolism refers to chemical reactions in which simpler substances are combined to form more complex molecules. Anabolic reactions usually require energy. Anabolic reactions build new molecules and/or store energy. The energy of catabolic reactions is used to drive anabolic reactions. 
Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs
For the related metabolic process, see anabolism. Catabolism (from Greek κάτω kato, downward and βάλλειν ballein, to throw) is the set of metabolic pathways that breaks down molecules into smaller units that are either oxidized to release energy, or used in other anabolic reactions. Catabolism breaks down large molecules (such as polysaccharides, lipids, nucleic acids and proteins) into smaller units (such as monosaccharides, fatty acids, nucleotides, and amino acids, respectively).
Using bigger things to make smaller things and releasing energy in the process. Catabolism provides the energy our bodies need for physical activity, from a cellular level right up to whole body movements. 3. The catabolic chemical reactions in the living cell break down polymers into their constituent monomers. Metabolism and body weight. In simple terms, our body weight is a result of catabolism minus anabolism. In other words, the amount of energy we release into our bodies (catabolism) minus the amount of energy our bodies use up (anabolism).
ATP not only provides energy to your cells, it also allows anabolic processes to occur. Anabolism is the reverse of catabolism, since these reactions build large biomolecules from smaller ones. And the molecules that are produced are the same types as what you find in food, such as carbohydrates and proteins. In a sense, these molecules are like your body's own version of the food it originally came from
Metabolism is usually divided into two categories: catabolism, the breaking down of organic matter by way of cellular respiration, and anabolism, the building up of components of cells such as proteins and nucleic acids. Usually, breaking down releases energy and building up consumes energy. Anabolism is the set of constructive metabolic processes where the energy released by catabolism is used to synthesize complex molecules. In general, the complex molecules that make up cellular structures are constructed step-by-step from small and simple precursors.
The energy stored in ATP is the fuel for anabolic reactions. Catabolism creates the energy that anabolism consumes for synthesizing hormones, enzymes, sugars and other substances for cell growth, reproduction, and tissue repair. If catabolism is producing more energy than anabolism requires there will be excess energy. The human body stores this excess energy in fat or glycogen. Fat tissue is relatively inactive compared to muscle or organ tissue and other systems in our body. Metabolism and body weight. In simple terms, our body weight is a result of catabolism minus anabolism. In other words, the amount of energy we release into our bodies (catabolism) minus the amount of energy our bodies use up (anabolism).