Non-Lactose fermenting bacteria such as Salmonella, Proteus species, Yersinia, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Shigella cannot utilize lactose, and will use peptone instead. This forms ammonia, which raises the pH of the agar, and leads to the formation of white/colorless colonies on the petri plate. It contains bile salts (to inhibit most Gram-positive bacteria), crystal violet dye (which also inhibits certain Gram-positive bacteria), neutral red dye (which turns pink if the microbes are fermenting lactose). Composition: 1  Peptone - 17 g. 2  Proteose peptone - 3 g.
Quadrant 4: Growth on the plate indicates the organism, Salmonella typhimurium, is not inhibited by bile salts and crystal violet and is a gram-negative bacterium. The absence of color in the bacterial growth indicates S. typhimurium is unable to ferment lactose. Back to Tutorial. Quadrant 2: Growth on the plate indicates the organism, Escherichia coli, is not inhibited by bile salts and crystal violet and is a gram-negative bacterium. The pink color of the bacterial growth indicates E. coli is 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Sorbitol MacConkey agar is a variant of traditional MacConkey agar used in the detection of E. coli O157:H7. Traditionally, MacConkey agar has been used to distinguish those bacteria that ferment lactose from those that do not. 
Isolation and Identification of Salmonella. A number of plating media have been devised for the isolation of Salmonella. Some media are differential and nonselective, i.e., they contain lactose with a pH indicator, but do not contain any inhibitor for non salmonellae (e.g., bromocresol purple lactose agar). Most strains are prototrophs, not requiring any growth factors. However, auxotrophic strains do occur, especially in host-adapted serovars such as Typhi and Paratyphi A. Figure 4. Colonial growth Salmonella choleraesuis subsp. arizonae bacteria grown on a blood agar culture plate.
Enteric bacteria that have the ability to ferment lactose can be detected using the carbohydrate lactose, and the pH indicator neutral red. MacConkey agar is one of the most common agar plates found in a clinical microbiology lab. It contains bile salts (to inhibit most Gram-positive bacteria), crystal violet dye (which also inhibits certain Gram-positive bacteria), neutral red dye (which turns pink if the microbes are fermenting lactose). Composition: 1  Peptone - 17 g. 2  Proteose peptone - 3 g.
ABSTRACT. The presence of lactose-fermenting Salmonella strains in clinical case materials presented to microbiology laboratories presents problems in detection and identification. Failure to detect these strains also presents a public health problem. As early as 1887, it was known that Escherichia coli was a lactose fermenter and that Salmonella was not a lactose fermenter. Therefore, most differential plating media commonly developed and used today for the isolation of Salmonella contain lactose (16, 17, 31).
When grown on ordinary agar, the organism forms spherical smooth colonies about two to four millimeters in diameter. When grown on Hektoen enteric agar, colonies are bluish-green with black centres, indicating that the species does not ferment lactose (common to many Salmonella species). The use of Hektoen enteric agar is designed for detection of these types of bacteria. Figure 1
Organisms which ferment lactose produce acid end-products which react with the pH indicator neutral red, and produce a pink color. Quadrant 1: Growth on the plate indicates the organism, Enterobacter aerogenes, is not inhibited by bile salts and crystal violet and is a gram-negative bacterium. The pink color of the bacterial growth indicates E. aerogenes is able to ferment lactose. Back to Tutorial. Quadrant 2: Growth on the plate indicates the organism, Escherichia coli, is not inhibited by bile salts and crystal violet and is a gram-negative bacterium. The pink color of the bacterial growth indicates E. coli
Coliform bacteria such as E. coli will ferment the lactose in the media, resulting in bacterial growth with a pink color. (They do not produce any hydrogen sulfide.) Members of the genus Salmonella will not ferment lactose, but do product hydrogen sulfide gas. Salmonella-Shigella (SS) plates are used to detect bacterial contamination on raw meat. Salmonella-Shigella agar plates contain lactose, bile salts, ferric citrate, and neutral red.
Using neutral red pH indicator, the agar distinguishes those Gram-negative bacteria that can ferment the sugar lactose (Lac+) from those that cannot (Lac-). This medium is also known as an indicator medium and a low selective medium. Presence of bile salts inhibits swarming by Proteus species. It contains bile salts (to inhibit most Gram-positive bacteria), crystal violet dye (which also inhibits certain Gram-positive bacteria), neutral red dye (which turns pink if the microbes are fermenting lactose). Composition: 1  Peptone - 17 g. 2  Proteose peptone - 3 g.