Antibiotics may be required to treat bloody stools. Eating black licorice can cause black, tarry stools. Melena is associated with peptic ulcers and gastritis. Melena can be indicative of a disorder or injury of the digestive system. Imaging tests to rule out serious gastrointestinal problems may require patients to drink a contrast dye made of barium sulfate. Diagnostic tests that might be performed include blood tests, stool cultures and X-rays. Testing the stools is important because in certain specific situations, stools can take on the appearance of melena even if no bleeding is present.
Causes [edit]. The most common cause of melena is peptic ulcer disease. Any other cause of bleeding from the upper gastrointestinal tract, or even the ascending colon, can also cause melena. Melena may also be a sign of drug overdose if a patient is taking anticoagulants, such as warfarin. However,the most prominent and helpful sign in these cases of malignant tumors is haematemesis. It may also accompany hemorrhagic blood diseases (e.g. purpura & hemophilia). Other medical causes of melena include bleeding ulcers, gastritis, esophageal varices, Meckel's diverticulum and Mallory-Weiss syndrome.
Melena: Black, tarry stools with an offensive odour caused by an upper gastrointestinal bleed. See detailed information below for a list of 103 causes of Melena, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Melena: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 
melena (m ·lēˑ·n) , n dark stools with a tarlike consistency and a distinct odor comprised of digested blood; results from bleeding in the upper gastrointestinal tract; usually a sign of peptic ulcer or small bowel disease. (mĕ-lē'nă). 
Melena is a term that describes a particular appearance of blood in stools. This term describes stools that are black, tarry and often foul-smelling because of the presence of blood from the upper gastrointestinal tract. Diagnostic tests that might be performed include blood tests, stool cultures and X-rays. Testing the stools is important because in certain specific situations, stools can take on the appearance of melena even if no bleeding is present.
Melena is associated with gastrointestinal hemorrhage, peptic ulcers, gastritis and other upper gastrointestinal tract disorders. The blood associated with melena gives stools a black, tarry appearance because blood is rich in a molecule called hemoglobin. Diagnostic tests that might be performed include blood tests, stool cultures and X-rays. Testing the stools is important because in certain specific situations, stools can take on the appearance of melena even if no bleeding is present.
Sometimes, bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract can be too slow to cause either rectal bleeding or melena. In these patients, bleeding is occult (not visible to the naked eye). The blood is found only by testing the stool for blood (fecal occult blood testing) in the laboratory. Occult bleeding has many of the same causes as rectal bleeding and may result in the same symptoms as rectal bleeding.
Medical Definition of MELENA. : the passage of dark tarry stools containing decomposing blood that is usually an indication of bleeding in the upper part of the alimentary canal and especially the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum—compare hematochezia. — me·le·nic \mə-ˈlē-nik\ adjective. Tweet. : the passage of dark tarry stools containing decomposing blood that is usually an indication of bleeding in the upper part of the alimentary canal and especially the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum—compare hematochezia.
melena. Definitions: 1. Passage of dark-colored, tarry stools, due to the presence of blood altered by the intestinal juices. Synonyms: melanorrhagia, melanorrhea. The definition information for melena is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 