The primary purpose of the benchmarking project is to provide human resource practitioners with tools, models, skills, methods and data to improve the effectiveness of their HR programs for their customers. IPMA-HR's benchmarking goals are to identify, measure and share the best practices of leading HR organizations. This information is made available so member organizations can compare their practices to benchmark HR organizations and identify opportunities for improvement.
Benchmark these for maximum impacts. In human resources benchmarking, what organizations need to look for is the best performance level based on prevailing industry standards. Your organization can benefit from benchmarking provided certain things are carried out. Choose not only the best but the most suitable when benchmarking human resources practices. For example, it is said that some organizations benchmark the speed and accuracy of the services they provide on the standards of the grand prix service teams.
Benchmarking is typically part of the Human Resources Audit. An audit is an internal study of the human resource functions throughout the organization, including those performed by managerial and supervisory levels. The first step in the audit is to evaluate the effectiveness of human resource functional areas. The second step in the audit is to benchmark human resource activities to ensure continuous improvement. Some typical measures of the practice areas may include: employee turnover, absenteeism, accidents, and employee attitudes. More often, organizations fight fires by waiting until they hear a warning signal or they require a crisis intervention to find out what is not working.
Focus of Human Resources Benchmarking. Benchmarking must necessarily focus how the Human Resource best practices can positively contribute to the business outcome, effectiveness of HR strategies, and the linkage of the HR strategy to the overall strategic plan. Choose not only the best but the most suitable when benchmarking human resources practices. For example, it is said that some organizations benchmark the speed and accuracy of the services they provide on the standards of the grand prix service teams.
This clearly indicates that benchmarking is important in human resource management. As a further clarification, benchmarking contributes toward improvement in HR performance. 1  Through benchmarking, you can learn how other organizations had succeeded to excel in managing people. Choose not only the best but the most suitable when benchmarking human resources practices. For example, it is said that some organizations benchmark the speed and accuracy of the services they provide on the standards of the grand prix service teams.
Benchmarking is key to developing clearly defined measures of competency and performance in human resources. Numbers lend credibility to the human resource function. Data supports comparisons, and provides a way to gauge progress. In step four, we learn communication and action must follow that benchmarking effort. The first phase of benchmarking involves planning. Part of the planning process calls for an audit review of what human resource processes have been successful and which have not. The only way to decide what is and is not working is to document, measure and analyze data.
BENCHMARKING. A term now often used to describe performance assessment is benchmarking which seeks to asses the competences of an organization against “best in class” wherever that is to be found. Most organizations monitor their own performance in order to identify change in key business activities over time. This may mean looking at the performance of the organization as a whole or comparing the performance of difficult individual teams or business unit with each other.
The Human Resources Benchmarking Association (HRBA) shares information to improve productivity, quality and cycle time among Human Resources professionals. To identify Best in Class business processes, which, when implemented, will lead member companies to exceptional performance as perceived by their customers. 
Benchmarking is key to developing clearly defined measures of competency and performance in human resources. Numbers lend credibility to the human resource function. Data supports comparisons, and provides a way to gauge progress. Some typical measures of the practice areas may include: employee turnover, absenteeism, accidents, and employee attitudes. More often, organizations fight fires by waiting until they hear a warning signal or they require a crisis intervention to find out what is not working.