The difference is that with an offshore trust, also called a foreign trust, the trustee is a financial institution that is not in the same country as the settlor – a foreign country, a foreign trust. A number of these foreign countries are offshore, hence the use of the term ‘offshore trust.’. One of the main uses of a foreign trust is to avoid unnecessary taxation by your home country. Who, believe it or not, want to tax you to death. We’ll look at what certain key countries are doing to try to curb the use of offshore trusts, what it means to you, and how you will still benefit from an 
Most offshore jurisdictions permit (or allow the settlor to specify in the trust instrument that they are permitted) a wider range of investments, including higher risk investments such as derivatives and futures contracts. However, offshore trusts have other uses too: 1  Offshore trusts are also sometimes formed as unit trusts to operate as a mutual fund. 2  Offshore trusts are often used as part of an orphan structure in capital markets or trade finance transactions.
An offshore trust is simply a conventional trust that is formed under the laws of an offshore jurisdiction. However, offshore trusts have other uses too: 1  Offshore trusts are also sometimes formed as unit trusts to operate as a mutual fund. 2  Offshore trusts are often used as part of an orphan structure in capital markets or trade finance transactions.
Many asset protection experts agree that offshore trust in the properly selected jurisdiction is the strongest asset protection vehicle worldwide. The Cook Islands Trust has been shown to offer the strongest asset protection case law history. Other Considerations. The formation of an offshore trust requires a realistic assessment of the goals and intent of a potential settlor, and will usurp some resources in its establishment and maintenance. Thus, serious, committed research, and advice and assistance from experience and knowledgeable agents is a must.
When a trust is established in a suitable offshore jurisdiction, provided that residents of the offshore jurisdiction are excluded from receiving benefit from the offshore trust, then there will be no local taxes applicable to the assets and income of the trust. The trustee becomes the legal owner and is responsible for managing the assets and distributing them to the beneficiaries of the offshore trust (which could include the person or corporation which transferred the assets to the trustees) in accordance with the terms of the trust deed.
An offshore trust enables an individual (the settlor) to donate assets to a neutral third party or guardian (the trustee), who holds the assets and administers them for the benefit of other individuals nominated by the settlor and in many cases the settlor himself (the beneficiaries). 
Generally offshore trusts are similar in nature and effect to their onshore counterparts; they involve a settlor transferring (or 'settling') assets (the 'trust property') on the trustees to manage for the benefit of a person, class or persons (the ' beneficiaries ') or, occasionally, an abstract purpose. However, offshore trusts have other uses too: 1  Offshore trusts are also sometimes formed as unit trusts to operate as a mutual fund. 2  Offshore trusts are often used as part of an orphan structure in capital markets or trade finance transactions.
An offshore trust is related to a traditional onshore asset protection trust in that the end goal is to protect your assets. They are also similar in relation to the parties involved: a Settlor, a Trustee, and the Beneficiaries. One of the main uses of a foreign trust is to avoid unnecessary taxation by your home country. Who, believe it or not, want to tax you to death. We’ll look at what certain key countries are doing to try to curb the use of offshore trusts, what it means to you, and how you will still benefit from an offshore trust.
Assets transferred to a properly created, implemented, and funded irrevocable trust are owned by the trust and managed by a trustee. The creator of the trust is no longer the owner of the assets. This is true whether the trust is domestic or offshore. Courts have taken the position that a trustee or a settlor in the U.S. is subject to the jurisdiction of American laws regardless of where the trust and the assets are located. 
The first point in why people set up an offshore trust is to protect their assets in a completely confidential manner. The trustee is expected to properly manage assets, titles to property, and anything else placed in the trust, in a way which completely protects the original owner (settlor) from being discovered. One of the main uses of a foreign trust is to avoid unnecessary taxation by your home country. Who, believe it or not, want to tax you to death. We’ll look at what certain key countries are doing to try to curb the use of offshore trusts, what it means to you, and how you will still benefit from an offshore trust.