AMENDMENT, legislation. An alteration or change of something proposed in a bill. 2. Either house of the legislature has a right to make amendments; but, when so made, they must be sanctioned by the other house before they can become a law. (Legislation), noun act, bill, clause, legislative act, legislative bill, measure, modificaaion of the law, rider, supplement. Associated concepts: amendment to a charter, amendment to the Constitution, Bill of Rights See also: change, correction, reform, rider.
Full Definition of AMENDMENT. 1. : the act of amending: correction. 2. : a material (as compost or sand) that aids plant growth indirectly by improving the condition of the soil. 3. a: the process of amending by parliamentary or constitutional procedure. See amendment defined for English-language learners.
The Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) (also referred to by proponents as the Marriage Protection Amendment) is a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution which would define marriage in the United States as a union of one man and one woman. 
amendment-Legal Definition. n. 1  The addition, deletion, correction, or other changes proposed or made to a document. 2  The term is usually capitalized when referring to an amendment in the United States Constitution (for example, the Fifth Amendment). 3  The act or process or revising something. 4  See also emendation.
Amendment. The modification of materials by the addition of supplemental information; the deletion of unnecessary, undesirable, or outdated information; or the correction of errors existing in the text. (Legislation), noun act, bill, clause, legislative act, legislative bill, measure, modificaaion of the law, rider, supplement. Associated concepts: amendment to a charter, amendment to the Constitution, Bill of Rights See also: change, correction, reform, rider.
The Sixth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution guarantees a criminal defendant a right to an impartial jury of peers, have a speedy public trial, confront witnesses, be informed about pending charges, and be represented by counsel. The rights guaranteed under the amendment are not absolute. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of an amendment is a change, addition, or rephrasing of something, most often with the intention of improvement. An example of an amendment are the changes made to the U.S. Constitution. n. 1  The addition, deletion, correction, or other changes proposed or made to a document. 2  The term is usually capitalized when referring to an amendment in the United States Constitution (for example, the Fifth Amendment). 3  The act or process or revising something. 4  See also emendation.