Ashwagandha is a plant. The root and berry are used to make medicine. Ashwagandha has a lot of uses. But so far, there isn’t enough information to judge whether it is effective for any of them. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Do not use ashwagandha if you are pregnant. It is rated LIKELY UNSAFE during pregnancy. There is some evidence that ashwagandha might cause miscarriages. Not enough is known about the use of ashwagandha during breast-feeding.
Ashwagandha as an Adaptogenic Herb. In Ayurveda, there are specific herbs with adaptogenic benefits, Ashwagandha is one of them. Adaptogens are substances (a combination of amino acids, vitamins, and herbs) that modulate your response to stress or a changing environment. The use of the Ayurvedic herb, Ashwagandha can help alleviate these symptoms and support an energetic and rejuvenating sense of wellbeing. Ashwagandha contains many useful medicinal chemicals, including withanolides (steroidal lactones), alkaloids, choline, fatty acids, amino acids, and a variety of sugars.
Withania somnifera, better known as ashwagandha or “Indian ginseng,” has been a staple of Ayurvedic medicine for over 3000 years. The herb has a wide range of activity that promotes physical and mental health, body rejuvenation, and longevity. It is known to inhibit anxiety and improve energy. In Ayurvedic medicine, one of the main uses of ashwagandha root extract is to enhance memory and improve brain function. One of the mechanisms responsible for this effect is ashwagandha’s antioxidant action.
Ashwagandha: Origins. Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) originated in India and is used very often in ayurvedic medecine (an Indian system of medicine that is one of the oldest in the world). It has been used for more than 3,000 years, and has survived through the centuries due to its numerous virtues. Ashwagandha: Ultimate effects, benefits, virtues. The main effect of Ashwagandha is to restore strength and vigor to those lacking in dynamism and energy, such as convalescents. Ashwagandha stimulates the immune system and promotes the healthy functioning of the organism.
Ashwagandha is also used as an “adaptogen” to help the body cope with daily stress, and as a general tonic. Some people also use ashwagandha for improving thinking ability, decreasing pain and swelling (inflammation), and preventing the effects of aging. It is also used for fertility problems in men and women and also to increase sexual desire. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Do not use ashwagandha if you are pregnant. It is rated LIKELY UNSAFE during pregnancy. There is some evidence that ashwagandha might cause miscarriages. Not enough is known about the use of ashwagandha during breast-feeding.
by: Jenna Saunders. Ashwagandha, one of the most powerful herbs in Ayurvedic healing, has been used since ancient times for a wide variety of conditions, and is most well-known for its restorative benefits. The use of the Ayurvedic herb, Ashwagandha can help alleviate these symptoms and support an energetic and rejuvenating sense of wellbeing. Ashwagandha contains many useful medicinal chemicals, including withanolides (steroidal lactones), alkaloids, choline, fatty acids, amino acids, and a variety of sugars.
Tweet. Native to North Africa, India, and the Middle East, ashwagandha is a staple of the Hindu traditional medicine called Ayurveda. This herb, also known as Withania Somnifera or Indian Ginseng (though it is not related to ginseng), is known to pack a healing punch and to have significant restorative properties. Although the benefits of ashwagandha are lesser known, that doesn’t make the plant any less powerful. While this short and stout plant has a variety of benefits, the most widely recognized benefit of ashwagandha is its ability to boost the immune system. In fact, several studies have reportedly shown it to greatly boost the immune system, increasing white blood cell production, helping to ward off illness and disease.
Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) is one of the most powerful medicinal plants, and has been used for more than 3,000 years by one of the most oldest medicinal systems in the world: ayurvedic medicine. Its history means that the effects of the plant are very well known. Ashwagandha: Ultimate effects, benefits, virtues. The main effect of Ashwagandha is to restore strength and vigor to those lacking in dynamism and energy, such as convalescents. Ashwagandha stimulates the immune system and promotes the healthy functioning of the organism.
Withania somnifera, known commonly as ashwagandha, Indian ginseng, poison gooseberry, or winter cherry, is a plant in the Solanaceae or nightshade family. Several other species in the genus Withania are morphologically similar. It is used as a herb in Ayurvedic medicine. 