Outcome assessment of 603 cases of concomitant inferior turbinectomy ... by Movahed, Reza; Morales-Ryan, Carlos; Allen, Will R.; Warren, Scott; Wolford, Larry M. / Baylor University Medical Center Proceedings. Identify the optimal parameters for partial inferior. The use of Nd: YAG laser for inferior turbinectomy, a comparative ... by Abdullah, N.E.; Al-Muslet, Nafie A. / Journal of Applied Research.
There are three pairs of turbinates that originate on the lateral walls of the nasal cavity inside the nose. When the inferior turbinates (the lowest pair) are enlarged due to a condition such as environmental allergies, they are a common cause of nasal obstruction. Reducing the size of the inferior turbinates improves nasal blockage because this creates more space for breathing through the nose. Inferior turbinate reduction can be accomplished with a variety of techniques; the most commonly used are submucous resection and radiofrequency reduction.
Turbinectomy is a procedure in which some or all of the turbinate bones attached to mucous membranes in the nasal passage are removed. It has been used to relieve nasal obstruction, but side-effects include removal of nerves that would report the passage of air. It may result in empty nose syndrome. 
Turbinectomy is a partial or complete resection of the inferior turbinate with or without the guidance of an endoscope. The microdebrider instrument is often used in this procedure in order to remove some of the soft tissue component, and the debrider can be used even in the more complex cases of bony hypertrophy. This includes turbinectomy, turbinoplasty, extramucosal or submucosal electrocautery, radiofrequency ablation (RFA), laser-assisted resection or ablation, and cryosurgery.
Turbinate Reduction. There are three turbinates (inferior, middle and superior) on each side of the nose, and their job is to clean and humidify the air as it moves through your nose into your lungs. Your surgery may be performed in conjunction with a surgical septoplasty under local or general anesthesia. A surgeon will use an endoscope, a thin tube with a light at the end, to improve visualization and provide a magnified view during surgery.
By removing part of this bone and allowing the healing process to shrink the lining of the turbinate, the nasal passage increases in size. Radiofrequency inferior turbinate reduction is typically performed in the office without general anesthesia or sedation. Reducing the size of the inferior turbinates improves nasal blockage because this creates more space for breathing through the nose. Inferior turbinate reduction can be accomplished with a variety of techniques; the most commonly used are submucous resection and radiofrequency reduction.
Turbinectomy: Removal of a turbinate bone. The turbinate is a bone in the nose; it is an extension of the ethmoid bone, is situated along the side wall of the nose, and is covered by mucous membrane.
As the primary controller of nasal airflow, the nasal turbinates, particularly the inferior turbinate, play an important role in normal nasal respiratory function. The mucosa of the turbinate is an essential tissue for proper respiratory function. This includes turbinectomy, turbinoplasty, extramucosal or submucosal electrocautery, radiofrequency ablation (RFA), laser-assisted resection or ablation, and cryosurgery.
In anatomy, a nasal concha (or turbinate) is a long, narrow and curled bone shelf (shaped like an elongated sea-shell) that protrudes into the breathing passage of the nose. Turbinate bone refers to any of the scrolled spongy bones of the nasal passages in vertebrates. Most inhaled airflow travels between the inferior turbinate and the middle meatus. The inferior turbinates are the largest turbinates, and can be as long as the index finger in humans, and are responsible for the majority of airflow direction, humidification, heating, and filtering of air inhaled through the nose.