Thankfully, cancer of the anal glands, also called adenocarcinoma, is not a common disease in dogs and is even more rare in kitties. However, when it does occur, it is invasive and often carries a very poor prognosis. Anal gland cancer appears as a rectal mass and is frequently also found in the lymph nodes. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Anal gland cancer, also called adenocarcinoma, appears as a mass in the rectum, and is also frequently found in the lymph nodes. 2  This cancer is usually malignant and quickly spreads to other locations in the body. 3  Fortunately, the disease is uncommon in dogs and cat
Parotidectomy. Parotidectomy is the removal of the parotid gland, the largest salivary gland. The paratoid is usually removed because of a tumor, a chronic infection, or a blocked saliva gland. Most parotid gland tumors are not cancerous. 
1 Salivary gland cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the salivary glands. 2  Being exposed to certain types of radiation may increase the risk of salivary cancer. 3  Signs of salivary gland cancer include a lump or trouble swallowing. The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the salivary glands or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.
The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if salivary gland cancer spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are actually salivary gland cancer cells. The disease is metastatic salivary gland cancer, not lung cancer. The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the salivary glands or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.
1 Anal gland cancer, also called adenocarcinoma, appears as a mass in the rectum, and is also frequently found in the lymph nodes. 2  This cancer is usually malignant and quickly spreads to other locations in the body. 3  Fortunately, the disease is uncommon in dogs and cats. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Anal gland cancer, also called adenocarcinoma, appears as a mass in the rectum, and is also frequently found in the lymph nodes. 2  This cancer is usually malignant and quickly spreads to other locations in the body.
The type of cancer that develops in the cortex of the adrenal gland is called adrenal cortical carcinoma. It is also known as adrenocortical cancer (or carcinoma) or just adrenal cancer. In this document, the term adrenal cancer is used to mean cancer that starts in the adrenal cortex. 
Salivary gland cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the salivary glands. The salivary glands make saliva and release it into the mouth. Saliva has enzymes that help digest food and antibodies that help protect against infections of the mouth and throat. The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the salivary glands or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.
Adrenal gland cancer is a malignant tumour that starts in the cells of the adrenal gland. Malignant means that it can spread, or metastasize, to other parts of the body. You have 2 adrenal glands. There is one above each kidney, and the kidneys are deep inside the upper part of the abdomen. When cells in the adrenal cortex become abnormal, they can form non-cancerous, or benign, tumours called adrenal cortical adenoma. Sometimes cells in the adrenal cortex change and become cancerous. This type of cancer is called adrenocortical carcinoma. It is the most common cancerous tumour of the adrenal gland. Tumours can also start in the medulla of the adrenal gland. When chromaffin cells in the medulla become abnormal, they can lead to a tumour called pheochromocytoma. Most pheochromocytomas are non-cancerous, but some are likely to become cancerous