Nuclear DNA, which is found in the nucleus, is inherited from both parents. On the other hand, mtDNA is found in the mitochondria and, in most multicellular organisms, is inherited from the maternal lineage. Nuclear DNA is arranged in linearly organized chromosomes while mtDNA is organized as a circular chromosome.
Mitochondrial DNA vs Nuclear DNA. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the main heredity material in almost all the organisms except some viruses. It is considered as a biological macromolecule, consisting of two long polymer strands made up of small repeating monomers called nucleotides. Nuclear DNA contains more information coming from both parents (both paternal and maternal). • Unlike nuclear DNA, mitochondrial DNA can only be used to determine maternal lineage in an individual or a group, and it cannot be used to determine paternal lineage.
The basic difference between the nuclear DNA and the mitochondrial DNA is that the nuclear DNA is linear in shape while the circular DNA is present in the mitochondria. Apart … from this, the mode of replication also differs in both of them. On the other hand, mtDNA is found in the mitochondria and, in most multicellular organisms, is inherited from the maternal lineage. Nuclear DNA is arranged in linearly organized chromosomes while mtDNA is organized as a circular chromosome.
Best Answer: Nuclear DNA, nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid (nDNA), is DNA contained within a nucleus of eukaryotic organisms. In most cases it encodes more of the genome than the mitochondrial DNA and is passed sexually rather than matrilineally. Nuclear DNA is the most common DNA used in forensic examinations. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is the DNA located in organelles called mitochondria.
• Mitochondrial DNA is found inside the mitochondria while nuclear DNA is found inside the nucleus of a cell. • One cell contains approximately 99.75% of nuclear DNA and 0.25% of mitochondrial DNA. • The mutation rate of mitochondrial DNA is nearly twenty times faster than that of nuclear DNA. Nuclear DNA contains more information coming from both parents (both paternal and maternal). • Unlike nuclear DNA, mitochondrial DNA can only be used to determine maternal lineage in an individual or a group, and it cannot be used to determine paternal lineage.
Main Difference: The main difference between nuclear DNA and mitochondrial DNA is, nuclear DNA is the standard 46 chromosome containing DNA in which you inherit 23 chromosome from one parent and the rest 23 from another one. On the other hand, mitochondrial DNA contains just one chromosome, like a circular genome. Nuclear DNA: Unlike mitochondrial DNA, nuclear DNA is found in every cell of the body. It consists of 46 chromosomes which are inherited from mother and father, both. The are comparatively longer with centromeres and telomers. DNA is composed of the adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine which are the main nucleotides
When looking at the structure, it is easily visible that nuclear DNA are in linear molecules, while mtDNA are in closed circular molecules. Also, nuclear DNA contains a nuclear genome while mtDNA contains a mitochondrial genome. Genome is the complete set of genetic material of an organism. One final difference in the structure is nuclear DNA contains three-billion nucleotides, and mtDNA only contains 16,569 nucleotides. Nucleotides are the building blocks of DNA, they are made of a nucleoside linked to a phosphate group.
The nuclear genome is inherited equally from both parents. See the Difference between mitochondrial DNA and chloroplast DNA. Tags: biology, cytology, mitochondria, Mitochondrial DNA and Nuclear DNA, Mitochondrial DNA vs Nuclear DNA, nucleus, Polycistronic vs Monocistronic Monocistronic. 
• Mitochondrial DNA is smaller than nuclear DNA. • Each mitochondrion contains thousands of mitochondrial DNA copies, but only a few copies of nuclear DNA exist in a human cell nucleus. • Unlike nuclear DNA, all mitochondrial DNA comes from the mother and none comes from the father (maternally inherited). Nuclear DNA contains more information coming from both parents (both paternal and maternal). • Unlike nuclear DNA, mitochondrial DNA can only be used to determine maternal lineage in an individual or a group, and it cannot be used to determine paternal lineage.