The first group of fungi is called Division Zygomycota. The second group is Division Ascomycota, or sac fungi, and the third group is Division Basidiomycota. The fungi that do … not fit in to any of these groups are put in to the junk drawer of fungi. This group is called Division Deuteromycota, or imperfect fungi.
The Imperfect Fungi. Imperfect fungi are imperfect not because they lack something but because science understands their life cycles imperfectly.. In technical texts this group is often referred to as the Deuteromycota or Deuteromyctes. The group contains a hodgepodge of fungi, the members of which will eventually be determined to be club, sac or conjunction fungi (or maybe something entirely new), and no longer be considered imperfect..
Only their asexual form of reproduction is known, meaning that this group of fungi produces their spores asexually, in the process called sporogenesis. The Deuteromycota (Greek for second fungi) were once considered a formal phylum of the kingdom Fungi. The term is now used only informally, to denote species of fungi that are asexually reproducing members of the fungal phyla Ascomycota and Basidiomycota. There are about 25,000 species that have been classified in the deuteromycota and many are basidiomycota or ascomycota anamorphs. Fungi producing the antibiotic penicillin and those that cause athlete's foot and yeast infections are imperfect fungi. In addition, there are a number of edible imperfect fungi, including the ones that provide the distinctive characteristics of Roquefort and Camembert cheese
Deuteromycota. The division Deuteromycota is also called the Fungi Imperfecti or Imperfect Fungi referring to our imperfect knowledge of their complete life cycles. The Deuteromycota are characterized by production of septate mycelium and/or yeasts, and a sexual life cycle that is either unknown or absent. As previously discussed in the Ascomycota, when both sexual and asexual stages are known to occur in a life cycle, they are referred to as telomorph and anamorph, respectively. There are a number of different classification schemes for this group of fungi.
Fungus. Mushrooms, mold, yeast, and toadstools make up the kingdom fungi. All fungus are organisms that feed on organic matter, and reproduce through spores. Fungi may be the cause of disease including, ringworm, athlete's foot, candida and thrush. Although some fungi are harmful, many are important in daily life. 
Answer by JDawgSA93. Confidence votes 64. Imperfect fungi are considered imperfect because they do not exhibit in any of its life cycle both means of reproduction-sexual and asexual reproduction. Their most common means of reproduction is by asexual reproduction. They were called imperfect because no one understood their life styles perfectly. Also there is current debate over how to classify these fungi. The imperfect fungi were once grouped in the phylum Deuteromycota, however this phylum has been removed and there is currently no place for these asexual fungi in the current fungal classification system. It is because there has never been a sexual reproductive stage observed from them.
Imperfect fungi are considered imperfect because they do not exhibit in any of its life cycle both means of reproduction-sexual and asexual reproduction. Their most common m … eans of reproduction is by asexual reproduction. The fungi that do … not fit in to any of these groups are put in to the junk drawer of fungi. This group is called Division Deuteromycota, or imperfect fungi.
The Imperfect Fungi Most of the so-called imperfect fungi, agroup also called deuteromycetes, are thosein which the sexual reproductive stageshave not been observed. Most of these ap-pear to be related to ascomycetes althoughsome have clear affinities to the otherphyla. One conse-quence of this system is that as sexualreproduction is discovered in an imperfect fungus, it mayhave two names assigned to different stages of its life cycle.There are some 17,000 described species of imperfectfungi (figure 36.12).