BREAKING DOWN 'Hedge'. An example of a hedge would be if you owned a stock, then sold a futures contract stating that you will sell your stock at a set price, therefore avoiding market fluctuations. Investors use this strategy when they are unsure of what the market will do
Hedging is an investment technique designed to offset a potential loss on one investment by purchasing a second investment that you expect to perform in the opposite way. For example, you might sell short one stock, expecting its price to drop. Hedging. 
Use hedging in a sentence. Show more usage examples... It always made Rex a little nervous when his broker Norman was hedging his investments, but Norman assured him it was a common risk management strategy and just involved a little off-setting between accounts. 7 people found this helpful.
The noun HEDGING has 2 senses: 1. any technique designed to reduce or eliminate financial risk; for example, taking two positions that will offset each other if prices change. 2. an intentionally noncommittal or ambiguous statement. Familiarity information: HEDGING used as a noun is rare. 
Hedging is the practice of taking a position in one market to offset and balance against the risk adopted by assuming a position in a contrary or opposing market or investment. The word hedge is from Old English hecg, originally any fence, living or artificial. If the beta of a Vodafone stock is 2, then for a 10,000 GBP long position in Vodafone an investor would hedge with a 20,000 GBP equivalent short position in the FTSE futures. Futures contracts and forward contracts are means of hedging against the risk of adverse market movements.
Definition. A risk management strategy used in limiting or offsetting probability of loss from fluctuations in the prices of commodities, currencies, or securities. In effect, hedging is a transfer of risk without buying insurance policies. Hedging employs various techniques but, basically, involves taking equal and opposite positions in two different markets (such as cash and futures markets). It always made Rex a little nervous when his broker Norman was hedging his investments, but Norman assured him it was a common risk management strategy and just involved a little off-setting between accounts. 7 people found this helpful.
DEFINITION of 'Hedge'. Making an investment to reduce the risk of adverse price movements in an asset. Normally, a hedge consists of taking an offsetting position in a related security, such as a futures contract. An example of a hedge would be if you owned a stock, then sold a futures contract stating that you will sell your stock at a set price, therefore avoiding market fluctuations.
Hedging. Definition: Hedging is a risk reduction technique whereby an entity uses a derivative or similar instrument to offset future changes in the fair value or cash flows of an asset or liability. A perfect hedge eliminates the risk of a subsequent price movement. Hedge effectiveness is the amount of changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item that are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedging instrument.
A buying hedge is also called a long hedge. Buying hedge means buying a futures contract to hedge a cash position. Dealers, consumers, fabricators, etc, who have taken or intend to take an exposure in the physical market and want to lock-in prices, use the buying hedge strategy. Benefits of buying hedge strategy: 1  To replace inventory at a lower prevailing cost. A selling hedge is also called a short hedge. Selling hedge means selling a futures contract to hedge. Uses of selling hedge strategy. 1  To cover the price of finished products. 2  To protect inventory not covered by forward sales.
A hedge fund is an investment vehicle and a business structure with a higher than average risk appetite that pools capital from a number of investors and invests in securities and other instruments. 