Synopsis. Jimmie Rodgers, born in 1897 in Mississippi, was a country singer who became famous for his style of yodeling. Throughout his career, he performed several hit singles, including Sleep, Baby, Sleep and Blue Yodel (T is for Texas).. He later recorded with the legendary jazz musician Louis Armstrong. Rodgers collapsed on the street on May 24 and passed away just two days later on May 26, 1933. He was only 35 years old. Rodgers married Carrie Williamson in 1920. They had two daughters, Anita (born 1921) and June (born 1923), and remained married until Rodgers' death.
Although few fans think of Country and Western being popular as remotely as the 1930s, it was during the depression years that C&W became another popular music form. Jimmie Rodgers was born near Meridian, Mississippi in 1897. At age 14, he worked on the railroads in the southern U. S. learning blues music from black crew workers and practicing his trademark 3-chord pickin'. At age 24 the smoke and soot of the coal fired trains so weakened his lungs that he contracted TB. 
Born in 1936 to country star Hank Snow and his wife Minnie, Jimmie Rodgers Snow appeared to have everything going his way. With famous friends like Elvis Presley and Buddy Holly, Jimmie began to rocket his way to stardom on the RCA label. 
The brakeman. Jimmie Rodgers was born James Charles Rodgers outside Meridian, Mississippi, on September 8, 1897. Since his father, Aaron Rodgers, worked on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad, Jimmie Rodgers grew up traveling, especially after his mother, Eliza Rodgers, died when Jimmie was only five or six.
This article is about the pop singer (born 1933). For the country singer of the same name (1897-1933), see Jimmie Rodgers (country singer) . For the blues musician of Muddy Waters' band (1924-1997), see Jimmy Rogers. He is not related to the earlier country singer of the same name, who coincidentally died the same year the younger Rodgers was born. Among country audiences, the younger Rodgers is often known as Jimmie F. Rodgers to differentiate the two.
On December 1, 1967, Jimmie Rodgers suffered traumatic head injuries after the car he was driving was stopped by an off-duty police officer near the San Diego Freeway in Los Angeles. He is not related to the earlier country singer of the same name, who coincidentally died the same year the younger Rodgers was born. Among country audiences, the younger Rodgers is often known as Jimmie F. Rodgers to differentiate the two.
Remembered for a few singing hits of the late 50s and early 60s, Jimmie managed to prevail but at a much slower pace. He was born September 18, 1933 in Camas, Washington, a few months after beloved Country Music Hall of Fame singer Jimmie Rodgers (known as The Singing Brakeman) died of consumption. With over 40 top ten hits in the late 50s and 60s, Jimmie Rodgers is one of the early superstars of Rock & Roll. His biggest #1 hits include Honeycomb, Kisses Sweeter Than Wine, It's Over, Child Of Clay, Oh Oh I'm Falling In Love Again and The Long Hot Summer, which nominated Jimmie for an Oscar
Early Life. Singer, guitarist and Father of Country Music Jimmie Rodgers was born James Charles Rodgers on September 8, 1897, in Meridian, Mississippi. He was the youngest of three children born to Eliza and Aaron Rodgers. Rodgers collapsed on the street on May 24 and passed away just two days later on May 26, 1933. He was only 35 years old. Rodgers married Carrie Williamson in 1920. They had two daughters, Anita (born 1921) and June (born 1923), and remained married until Rodgers' death.