This varies according to the species. Short-beaked echidnas live almost exclusively on termites, although they also eat ants. Echidnas have large claws for breaking open termite mounds (which, in much of Australia, are made from mud). They have long sticky tongues, about 15cm long, with which they catch the termites. The echidna lays eggs, making it a monotreme, but it is also a mammal, as the young suckle mother's milk. During breeding season, the female echidna develops a pouch, where she lays and incubates her egg. The pouch is little more than a fold of skin, and even the male can develop a pouch.
The short-beaked echidna is covered in fur and spines and has a distinctive snout and a specialized tongue, which it uses to catch its prey at a great speed. Like the other extant monotremes, the short-beaked echidna lays eggs; the monotremes are the only group of mammals to do so. This echidna has extremely strong front limbs and claws due to its mechanical advantage which allows it to burrow quickly with great power. The short-beaked echidna (Tachyglossus aculeatus) is one of four living species of echidna and the only member of the genus Tachyglossus.
The diet of echidnas is largely made up of ants and termites, although, they will eat other invertebrates especially grubs, larvae and worms. The strong forepaws are used to open up the ant or termite nest and the echidna then probes the nest with its sensitive snout. Echidna (Photo by Steve Johnson). Echidnas, or spiny ant eaters as they are sometimes known, are familiar to most Australians. Echidnas are monotremes (mammals that lay eggs). There are only five species of monotreme in the world-the platypus and four species of echidna, three of which are restricted to New Guinea.
Echidnas prefer to eat termites and ants. This is why they are called ‘spiny anteaters’. However, they will also eat worms, beetles and small invertebrates (insects). Echidnas use their long snouts to find food. They then use their long, sticky tongue to catch their prey.
In warm areas, echidnas feed during the cooler morning and evening hours, and sleep during the heat of the day. In southern Australia, they often stop eating during the colder months and then eat large amounts during spring. All echidnas have sharp spines covering the back of their short, stocky bodies. The short-beaked echidna's snout is between 7 and 8 cm long, and is stiffened to enable the animal to break up logs and termite mounds when searching for food. An echidna's mouth is on the underside of its snout, at the end.
The short-beaked echidna is the smaller of the species, and individuals vary in colour depending on their location. In the northern, hotter regions, echidnas are light brown, but they become darker with thicker hair further south. In Tasmania, they are black. All echidnas have sharp spines covering the back of their short, stocky bodies. The short-beaked echidna's snout is between 7 and 8 cm long, and is stiffened to enable the animal to break up logs and termite mounds when searching for food. An echidna's mouth is on the underside of its snout, at the end.
Echidnas are monotremes, or egg-laying mammals. Covered with fur out of which dozens of sharp spines protrude, the echidna is sometimes known as the spiny anteater. Although … the echidna is not at all related to anteaters, it does feed primarily on termites and ants. The echidna lays eggs, making it a monotreme, but it is also a mammal, as the young suckle mother's milk. During breeding season, the female echidna develops a pouch, where she lays and incubates her egg. The pouch is little more than a fold of skin, and even the male can develop a pouch.
Although they begin to eat termites and ants soon after leaving the pouch, young echidnas are often not fully weaned until they are several months old. Echidnas have been known to live for as long as 16 years in the wild, but generally their life span is thought to be under 10 years. All echidnas have sharp spines covering the back of their short, stocky bodies. The short-beaked echidna's snout is between 7 and 8 cm long, and is stiffened to enable the animal to break up logs and termite mounds when searching for food. An echidna's mouth is on the underside of its snout, at the end.
1 Like people, echidnas like swimming during the summer months to help cool off! 2  Echidnas take shelter during rainy and windy weather by burrowing into the soil or sheltering under brushes. 3  Echidnas may live as long as 16 years in the wild. 4  However, most echidnas do not live over 10 years. This is why they are called ‘spiny anteaters’. However, they will also eat worms, beetles and small invertebrates (insects). Echidnas use their long snouts to find food. They then use their long, sticky tongue to catch their prey.
Sometimes called the spiny anteater, the short-beaked echidna (pronounced e-kid-nuh) measures 30-45 cm (13.5-17.5 in.) long and weighs 2-5 kg (6.5-14.5 lb.). Although it resembles a porcupine or hedgehog, closer inspection of the echidna reveals some of the animal’s more unusual traits. 