It should still be noted, however, that recovery time for a total knee replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. It may take eight to twelve months for a knee replacement patient to regain normal range of movement in the joint.
Most patients undergoing total knee replacement surgery want to know when they’ll be able to return to their normal life. Questions about “recovery time” are common. There are many factors that can affect recovery time, but typically patients can return to normal life activities within 3 to 6 months.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks.
Generally speaking, knee replacement patients take longer to recover than, say, hip replacement patients. It should still be noted, however, that recovery time for a total knee replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take six months to recover; while others may recover in one month.
After knee replacement surgery, you are usually sent home or to a rehabilitation facility, depending on your condition at that time. If you are sent to a facility, the average rehabilitation stay is approximately seven to ten days.
How long does knee replacement surgery take also depends upon the time during which the patient is brought into the operation theatre and when that patient is discharged from the operation theatre room. For instance, it takes about 60-90 minutes to complete the knee replacement surgery.
Everyone heals from total knee replacement surgery at a different pace. In most cases, however, you will likely use a walker or crutches for 2 to 4 weeks after your operation. You will then advance to a cane and wean to no assistive device at all.
The average short-term recovery time for a total knee replacement is 6 to 12 weeks. Long-term recovery involves the complete healing of surgical wounds and internal soft tissues. When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery.