A Rate Contract or a Rate Agreement (RC in short) is a procurement cost reduction strategy aimed at standardizing procurement prices for commonly procured, homogenous and price varying inputs. Contents. Post the setup of a rate contract, a definitive monitoring mechanism must be set up. Such a monitoring mechanism needs to be done centrally by the organization and involves-monitoring of offtake by supplier, monitoring of non-RC offtake and monitoring of supplies and periodic quality audits.
Rate Contract. The present role of the DGS&D is mainly to conclude the rate contracts to be operated by the consuming departments of the Government for items of common use. DGS&D has been identifying such items, whose anticipated annual purchase by Government Organisations is normally more than Rs.
In this contract the contractor is required to quote a rate for each item of work in the agreement. This type of contract is mainly done in Railway Departments and Public Work Departments. An advantage of this contract is that it allows for a thorough rate analysis. A construction contract is a mutual or legally binding agreement between two parties based on certain policies and conditions generally recorded in documentation form. The two parties involved are one or more owners, and one or more contractor
Your posts are moderated. Unit rate contracts In a unit-rate contract, the seller commits to providing each unit of work defined by a buyer for a fixed price per unit of each work item. Engineered materials are procured with unit-rate contracts when the design is not complete
A rate contract is usually attempted when a global sourcing effort is not feasible, due to financial or operational constraints. Post the setup of a rate contract, a definitive monitoring mechanism must be set up. Such a monitoring mechanism needs to be done centrally by the organization and involves-monitoring of offtake by supplier, monitoring of non-RC offtake and monitoring of supplies and periodic quality audits.
Contract Rate. The contract rate; also called the coupon rate, stated rate, or nominal rate; is the interest percentage listed on the face of a note or bond. In other words, this is the interest rate that will be paid on the principle balance for the life of the note or bond. Remember, the contact rate is the amount of interest paid or received in cash for a bond or note. This is not the necessarily the interest expense recorded on the books. Interest expense is calculated based on the market rate of interest.