Read More. A historical relationship between Bath and Shariki village, now part of Tsugaru City, has grown into a sister-city relationship between the two communities and a sister-state relationship between Maine and the Aomori region of Japan. Every year, students from the Bath and Tsugaru areas participate in an overseas exchange to better understand each other’s culture. Bath has the most active sister-city exchange program in the State of Maine!
- Three-Stringed Japanese Lute -. Tsugaru-Shamisen is one of the versions of Shamisen, a three stringed Japanese Lute, specially evolved in Tsugaru region in the northern part of Japan. Tsugaru-Shamisen, one of the versions of Shamisen, was initially used of wandering blind artists who perform in front of people's house for their living, specially in Tsugaru region.
This page may need to be reviewed for quality. The Tsugaru Dialect (津軽弁 / つがるべん / tsugaru-ben)is a Japanese dialect spoken in Tsugaru, the western region of the Aomori Prefecture. There are often times when Tsugaru dialect is mistaken for Aomori Dialect.. October 23 is the anniversary of the death of Kyōzō Takagi, a famous poet who wrote in the Tsugaru dialect. In Tsuruta, there is an annual summer Tsugaru-ben competition (津軽弁大会 Tsugaru-ben taikai) in which teams of foreigners create short skits or performances, usually humorous, using Tsugaru-ben.
One-day Experience Goshogawara West and North Tsugaru Winter. This unique program is a way for visitors to experience the fierce drifting snow of the frozen Tsugaru region of Aomori prefecture. Drifting snow, fallen snow wisping in the strong winds, is a well-known feature of Tsugaru region. The drifting snow can be of such an intensity that once it begins, it becomes difficult to see one’s own path. This rare tour has turned the troublesome drifting snow into a fascinating local experience. Visitors can become familiar with Tsugaru culture by going on the tour while wearing a traditional winter clothe called “Kakumaki” or riding the wide snow field of Tsugaru plains on a horse sleigh. If requested in advance, visitors can also fly a Tsugaru tako (kite).
Tsugaru-jamisen (kanji: 津軽三味線, hiragana: つがるじゃみせん) or Tsugaru-shamisen (hiragana: つがるしゃみせん) refers to both the Japanese genre of shamisen music originating from Tsugaru Peninsula in present-day Aomori prefecture and the instrument it is performed with. What is known is that tsugaru-jamisen originated from a small peninsula due west of present day Aomori Prefecture called Tsugaru. In addition, some researchers have conjectured on the style's origins based on available evidence.
Performance request Back From the Concert DVD & Sample image Home page. Tsugaru-Shamisen is one of the versions of Shamisen, a three stringed Japanese Lute, specially evolved in  Tsugaru  region in the northern part of Japan. Because of the heavy snowfall and painful long winter, Tsugaru people were in need of music as an emotional relief to struggle with severe life there. Tsugaru-Shamisen, one of the versions of Shamisen, was initially used of wandering blind artists who perform in front of people's house for their living, specially in Tsugaru region.
Nitabō had multiple blind students, such as Kinobo and Chōsakubo, who contributed to the development of the style. Nitabō's last student, Shirakawa Gunpachirō, performed outside of the Tsugaru region as a part of a folk performance troupe. What is known is that tsugaru-jamisen originated from a small peninsula due west of present day Aomori Prefecture called Tsugaru. In addition, some researchers have conjectured on the style's origins based on available evidence.
This unique program is a way for visitors to experience the fierce drifting snow of the frozen Tsugaru region of Aomori prefecture. Visitors can become familiar with Tsugaru culture by going on the tour while wearing a traditional winter clothe called “Kakumaki” or riding the wide snow field of Tsugaru plains on a horse sleigh. If requested in advance, visitors can also fly a Tsugaru tako (kite).
It is performed throughout Japan, though associations with the Tsugaru remain strong. Tsugaru-jamisen is considered the most recognized genre of shamisen music, and has enjoyed multiple periods of popularity in Japan. What is known is that tsugaru-jamisen originated from a small peninsula due west of present day Aomori Prefecture called Tsugaru. In addition, some researchers have conjectured on the style's origins based on available evidence.