The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) provides a facility online to check your PF balance with the status of the account.This facility is available to the organizations who manage their PF with EPCO. The information is not available for the organisation's who have their own private PF trust. Eg.
Employees Provident Fund Organisation introduced new facility to the public to check PF amount online.This will be updated every month.To check the PF online they provided 12 Digit UAN(Universal ActivationNumber).Please check with your company incase if you dont have UAN number.
You can check your EPF balance from the finance department of your employer. Or, if you know your PF account number, you can check it online at the EPF website. Refer to the w … ebsite in the related links section for details on how you can check it online. 37 people found this useful.
Learn how to check PF balance online and how to check PF claim status online etc. You can download PF forms like PF Form 13, PF Form 19, PF Form 10C, PF Form 31, and PF Form 20-3A etc. Find the guideline for checking PF balance online and claiming PF amount.
Or, if you know your PF account number, you can check it online at the EPF website. Refer to the w … ebsite in the related links section for details on how you can check it online. You can request your employer to provide the details. Contact the finance department of your company. 51 people found this useful.
You can check your EPF balance from the finance department of your employer. Or, if you know your PF account number, you can check it online at the EPF website. Refer to the w … ebsite in the related links section for details on how you can check it online. + 220 others found this useful.
Step 2: Click the link Check Your EPF balance on the EPFO website, http://www.epfindia.gov.in/. Check your PF balance online. Picture courtesy:moeycontrol. Step 3: Select the state where your PF office is situated. Step 4: Select the appropriate EPFO regional office. Knowing this is no rocket science.