This is called her adjusted age. For example, if your little one was born two months early, she'll probably be nearer to 8 months old before you notice her starting to creep. As long as you notice progress, there's usually no need for worry, notes HealthyChildren.org, published by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Considerations. It's important to remember that infant milestones aren't set in stone. Every baby grows and develops at her own pace, so you might notice your little one creeping before 6 months or after 6 months. Try not to compare your baby with her siblings or cousins.
Report Abuse. Depends on your child. If you child is active he/she may start crawling as early as 4 months. If your child is less active and more passive it may be anywhere between 6months to a year. Then again. Some children skip crawling all together. Don't worry if your child isn't crawling when you think it should be.
On average, if a baby is going to crawl, sometime between 7-10 months is when this skill will be perfected. Some babies start going through the motions, such as getting up on hands and knees and rocking back and forth as early as 4-5 months. Some babies don't show any interest in crawling until closer to 12 months. 
Most babies begin to creep around 6 months of age, according to MayoClinic.com. Creeping usually follows the milestones of sitting without support, holding the head steady and bearing weight on the legs, which typically occurs between 4 and 6 months of age for the average baby. Considerations. It's important to remember that infant milestones aren't set in stone. Every baby grows and develops at her own pace, so you might notice your little one creeping before 6 months or after 6 months. Try not to compare your baby with her siblings or cousins.
Ages for Creeping. Many babies start creeping between 7 and 9 months. The baby must hit several milestones before creeping is possible. The baby should have the core strength and coordination to sit unassisted. In addition, he must be able to push his upper body off the floor when lying on his tummy
Most babies learn to crawl between the ages of 7 and 10 months. Your baby may opt for another method of locomotion around this time, though – like bottom shuffling (scooting around on her bottom, using a hand behind and a foot in front to propel herself), slithering on her stomach, or rolling across the room. Learn about developmental milestones from 1 to 6 months, such as when b... Developmental milestones: What to expect from birth to age 3. Learn about your child's developmental milestones by age, from the baby milestones of rolling over, smiling, and crawling to to... Baby milestone: Talking.
Your baby will likely start crawling soon after he's able to sit well without support (probably by the time he's 8 months old). After this point, he can hold his head up to look around, and his arm, leg, and back muscles are strong enough to keep him from falling on the floor when he gets up on his hands and knees. Learn about developmental milestones from 1 to 6 months, such as when b... Developmental milestones: What to expect from birth to age 3. Learn about your child's developmental milestones by age, from the baby milestones of rolling over, smiling, and crawling to to... Baby milestone: Talking.
Creeping is often a precursor to mobility and involves your baby's early attempts to move forward and backward or get to her hands and knees. Once your baby begins creeping, she typically follows soon after with crawling, walking and running. Considerations. It's important to remember that infant milestones aren't set in stone. Every baby grows and develops at her own pace, so you might notice your little one creeping before 6 months or after 6 months. Try not to compare your baby with her siblings or cousins.
Once your baby can sit up well on her own, she'll start moving about, too. This early locomotion may start as creeping (pushing herself around on her stomach), scooting (crawling on one leg and dragging the other), or a combination of rolling, rocking, and squirming on her stomach, bottom, or back. Within a few weeks, most babies usually progress to true hands-and-knees crawling.
Going barefoot helps improve balance and coordination. What to do if your baby doesn’t walk. Don't fret if your child is simply taking her time. But if your child doesn't stand with support at 12 months, can't walk at 18 months, or isn't able to walk steadily at the age of 2 years, bring it up with her doctor. 