Flower Pictures. Finally, some of you may have a particular kind of theme in mind for a garden. For example, you may be working on a cottage garden and need some ideas or some information on types of plants traditionally associated with cottage gardens. Such readers will probably find my Theme Gardens resource most useful. Databases may not be very useful to you, however, if you do not know the plant you are looking for by name. Consequently, I do offer other means of searching my website for plants, in lieu of the lists accessed via the links above.
Types of Plants. Here are our different types of plants, as they are sorted on Discover Plants. You may notice some categories are not actually scientific, or botanical, classifications. For example, the term 'vegetables' is only a culinary term, not an actual plant type. Same for 'fruits', but to a lesser extent. We have separated our types of plants by how people commonly refer to them. 
The Angiosperms or Flowering Plants. The Angiosperms are the Flowering Plants and there are around 250,000 to 400,000 different flower types. Fortunately they can be divided into two groups: Monocots and Dicots. Note that it is only the Flowering Plants that are Monocots or Dicots. Other plants such as Mosses and Ferns are neither. If ever you find any types of flowers which just don't fit and you want to know their names, it's a good idea to either take a flower to your local Botanical Gardens, or send them a photo. They are really helpful with ID in different types of flowers. Of course the local nursery usually has the ID we want.
Thanks to the variety of colors available, clematis is a popular climber. Other good choices are bougainvillea, blackberry, gloriosa lily, honeysuckle, jasmine, mandevilla, trumpet vine and native wisteria. Find the best vines for your zone in our plant finder. A few other plant types are often mistaken for true bulbs because they grow the same way. For example, bearded iris is a rhizome, crocus and gladiolus are corms, and dahlias and elephant's ear are tubers. Find the best bulb
Common annuals are marigold, vinca, begonia, coleus, zinnia, impatiens, petunia, nasturtium and pentas. But climate plays a big role in determing an annual plant's lifecycle — some varieties of daisies, geranium, lantana, mandevilla, pansies and verbena are perennials in warm climates. A few other plant types are often mistaken for true bulbs because they grow the same way. For example, bearded iris is a rhizome, crocus and gladiolus are corms, and dahlias and elephant's ear are tubers. Find the best bulbs for your zone in our plant finder.
Annuals. As their name implies, annuals are plants that complete their life cycle in only one season. Typically used to add seasonal color to flowerbeds and planters, these prolific bloomers die back after flowering. Removing spent blooms will stimulate annuals to produce more showy flowers. A few other plant types are often mistaken for true bulbs because they grow the same way. For example, bearded iris is a rhizome, crocus and gladiolus are corms, and dahlias and elephant's ear are tubers. Find the best bulbs for your zone in our plant finder.
In addition, the Plant Encyclopedia offers helpful design tips and uses for different types of plants, trees, shrubs, vines, roses, perennial flowers, annual plants, indoor plants, and more. Using the Plant Encyclopedia, you'll not only find details on classic favorite plants such as hydrangea, hibiscus, orchids, ornamental grasses, and azaleas, but also more unusual flowers, trees, shrubs, vines and water plants. 1  Facebook. 2  Pinterest. 3  Google Plus. 4  Email.
The Better Homes and Gardens Plant Encyclopedia is an invaluable resource for new and experienced gardeners everywhere. This plant-finder tool is easily searchable by plant type and characteristic, and provides helpful information on caring for everything from annuals to vines. Using the Plant Encyclopedia, you'll not only find details on classic favorite plants such as hydrangea, hibiscus, orchids, ornamental grasses, and azaleas, but also more unusual flowers, trees, shrubs, vines and water plants. 1  Facebook. 2  Pinterest. 3  Google Plus. 4  Email.
Defined as plants that retain their leaves year-round, evergreens add a bright spot of color to a winter landscape. Conifers, like pine, spruce, cedar and fir are what typically come to mind when we think of evergreens but magnolia, hollies and eucalyptus trees are also evergreens. A few other plant types are often mistaken for true bulbs because they grow the same way. For example, bearded iris is a rhizome, crocus and gladiolus are corms, and dahlias and elephant's ear are tubers. Find the best bulbs for your zone in our plant finder.