Skin receptors, also called cutaneous receptors, are part of the somatosensory system. They detect pressure, temperature, and vibrations on or around the skin. Cutaneous mechanoreceptors respond to pressure sensations on the skin and include Merkel's corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, and bulboid corpuscles. Receptors that detect temperature are made up of free nerve endings on the skin and are called thermoreceptors. Pain receptors on the skin are also free nerve endings called nociceptors.
Two types of transient receptors are found in hairy skin. Pacinian corpuscle receptors are associated with the peripheral ends of certain type A alpha and beta fibers. They respond to mechanical taps and vibrations in the 50- to 500-Hz range. Four types of velocity receptors are found in hairy skin. G2 hair receptors are the peripheral ends of type A beta fibers terminating around the base of guard hairs in the base of hair follicles. They respond to both slow and rapid movement of hairs and deflection of the skin.
There are not tow types of sensory receptors in the skin there are many types of sensory receptors in the skin i.e., in the CUTANEOUS RECEPTORS of the MECHANORECEPTORS. … They are the: Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's disc, Paccinian corpuscles, Ruffini's end organs, Free Nerve Endings and Hari Follicel Organs. There are four different types of receptors in the skin. There are  merkel receptors, meissner corpuscles, ruffini cylinders and  pacinian corpuscles.
The cutaneous receptors are the types of sensory receptor found in the dermis or epidermis. They are a part of the somatosensory system. Cutaneous receptors include e.g. cutaneous mechanoreceptors, nociceptors (pain) and thermoreceptors (temperature). With the above-mentioned receptor types the skin can sense the modalities touch, pressure, vibration, temperature and pain. The modalities and their receptors are partly overlapping, and are innervated by different kinds of fiber types.
Confidence votes 6.2K. Sensory receptors in the skin (cutaneous receptors) are generally of the mechanoreceptor, nociceptor, and thermoreceptor types. Mechanoreceptors sense pressure (such as touch) and vibrations and for example include Meissner corpuscles, Merkel disks, Ruffini corpuscles and Pacinian corpuscles. There are four different types of receptors in the skin. There are  merkel receptors, meissner corpuscles, ruffini cylinders and  pacinian corpuscles.
The sensory receptors in the skin, such as Meissner's and Pacinian corpuscles, as well as free nerve endings, are classified as general sensory receptors. 1 In slides 21 and 35 of the skin, sensory nerve endings are inside Pacinian and Meissner's corpuscles. 2  Pacinian or lamellar corpuscles, which are encapsulated receptors for deep pressure, are found in the dense connective tissue of the dermis below the epithelium in slide 21.
The sensory receptors in the skin are: 1  cutaneous mechanoreceptors. 2  Ruffini's end organ (sustained pressure). 3  Meissner's corpuscle (changes in texture, slow vibrations). 4  Pacinian corpuscle (deep pressure, fast vibrations). With the above-mentioned receptor types the skin can sense the modalities touch, pressure, vibration, temperature and pain. The modalities and their receptors are partly overlapping, and are innervated by different kinds of fiber types.
List the sensory receptors found in the dermis of the skin: free nerve endings for pain, temperature, messiners corpuscles for touch in the hairless skin, pacinian corpuscles for pressure. 25. A nurse tells a doctor that a patient is cyanotic. 24. List the sensory receptors found in the dermis of the skin: free nerve endings for pain, temperature, messiners corpuscles for touch in the hairless skin, pacinian corpuscles for pressure. 25. A nurse tells a doctor that a patient is cyanotic. Define cyanotic.