Small employers' relief. If you pay your employees any statutory maternity pay (SMP), statutory paternity pay (SPP), statutory adoption pay (SAP), and shared parental pay (ShPP), you can reclaim some or all of it. How much you can reclaim depends on whether you’re classed as a small employer or not. You must process all pay runs and submit your full payment submissions (FPS) for your first P32 reporting period, before you can reclaim small employers’ relief. Your EPS submission is monthly or quarterly, depending on your HMRC reporting frequency. 1  1. EPS from the Summary tab.
Do I qualify for small business rate relief? With effect from 01.04.10, this is available at 50%* for ratepayers occupying single properties with a rateable value up to £6,000, with relief declining in percentage terms on a sliding scale until it is 0% at £12,000. From 01.04.2016, relief will revert back to its original levels. If you already receive Small Business Rates Relief there is no need to apply for the additional relief as it will be awarded automatically. Download Small Business Rate Relief application form.
Small business rate relief is administered by your local council. The system varies between England and Wales. You will be eligible for a discount under the small business rate relief scheme in England if you only occupy one property and it has a rateable value below £12,000. The Government has extended the Small Business Rate Relief to apply until 31 March 2016
To reclaim small employers’ relief. You must process all pay runs and submit your full payment submissions (FPS) for your first P32 reporting period, before you can reclaim small employers’ relief. Your EPS submission is monthly or quarterly, depending on your HMRC reporting frequency. 1  1. EPS from the Summary tab.
For non-calendar year plans for employers of 50-99 FTEs, the transition relief includes any months during 2016 that are a part of the 2015 plan year, so long as the employer does not modify their plan year after February 9, 2014. 100+ Full-Time Equivalent Employees Transitional relief is available for employers with 100 or more FTEs. This relief allows employers with 100 or more FTEs to be in compliance on their first renewal on or after January 1, 2015.
Your company normally qualifies for small employers’ relief if your liability for national insurance (NI) contributions was £45,000 or less in the last complete tax year prior to the employee’s qualifying week, or in the case of adoption, the matching week. You must process all pay runs and submit your full payment submissions (FPS) for your first P32 reporting period, before you can reclaim small employers’ relief. Your EPS submission is monthly or quarterly, depending on your HMRC reporting frequency. 1  1. EPS from the Summary tab.
Conclusion The transitional relief provides a temporary delay for certain employers to be in compliance with the Employer Mandate. Employers hoping to take advantage of this relief must first assess if they qualify or not. 100+ Full-Time Equivalent Employees Transitional relief is available for employers with 100 or more FTEs. This relief allows employers with 100 or more FTEs to be in compliance on their first renewal on or after January 1, 2015.
If your property has a rateable value below £18,000 (£25,500 in Greater London) you’re considered a small business. Even if you don’t qualify for small business rate relief, your business rates will be calculated using the small business multiplier instead of the standard one. This is the case even if you have multiple properties. You have more than one property. You can get small business rate relief if the rateable value of each of your other properties is less than £2,600. The rateable values of the properties are added together and the relief applied to the main property. You’ll keep getting any existing relief for one year when you get a second property