Food that is dry (less than 10% moisture) and low fat can be dry packed in glass canning jars using oxygen absorbers. It is best to use quart or half gallon jars rather than pint jars or smaller. 1. Check canning jars for a smooth mouth rim. Do not use jars with nicks or cracks in the rim. 2. 
To make one cup hot cocoa or chocolate milk use 1/2 cup mix and 1 cup water. Combine part of the water with mix and stir to make a smooth paste. Add remaining water and blend well. Heat to make hot cocoa or chill to make chocolate milk. see more recipes at Transylvania Vocational Services. 1 Add ½ cup nonfat dry milk powder when reconstituting canned soup. 2  Add ½ cup nonfat dry milk powder per can of condensed soup when making casseroles, such as tuna and noodles with cream of mushroom soup. 3  Add nonfat dry milk powder when making mashed potatoes, using 1/3 cup per 4 servings.
To make one cup hot cocoa or chocolate milk use 1/2 cup mix and 1 cup water. Combine part of the water with mix and stir to make a smooth paste. Add remaining water and blend well. Heat to make hot cocoa or chill to make chocolate milk. Add 2 tablespoons water and blend. Heat over medium high heat until mixture starts to boil, stirring continuously. Lower heat and simmer 2-3 minutes. (If needed. another 1 teaspoon of water may be added to prevent. scorching.). Remove pan from heat. Pour syrup into a blender. Add nonfat dry milk.
Nonfat dry milk is made from fresh whole milk withthe butterfat removed. It can be used in place of fresh milk for drinking and cooking. The milk distributed in the Abundant Food programis not the instant type. In any recipe call-ing for milk, you can add the dry milk to other dry in-gredients. Then add the required amount of water withthe other liquid in the recipe. The food value of manydishes such as casseroles can be increased by mixing in some dry milk. Check the label on your dry milk package.
Instant Nonfat Dry Milk (iNDM) is regular cow’s milk that has had the water and fat removed. iNDM still has all the calcium, protein, vitamins and minerals of fresh milk. Mountain Maid adds additional Vitamins A and D for even better nutrition. Add 2 tablespoons water and blend. Heat over medium high heat until mixture starts to boil, stirring continuously. Lower heat and simmer 2-3 minutes. (If needed. another 1 teaspoon of water may be added to prevent. scorching.). Remove pan from heat. Pour syrup into a blender. Add nonfat dry milk.
Combine part of the waterwith mix to make a smooth paste. Add remaining water and blend well. Heat cocoa or chillfor chocolate milk.Banana Milk 1 cup water¼ cup nonfat dry milk2 ripe bananas, mashed1 cup fluid milkCombine part of water with nonfat dry milk to make a smooth paste. Blend in rest ofwater. Add bananas and fluid milk; beat until smooth. Add enough water to make theamount of milk desired. Non-instant milk powder is easier to disperse if the water is slightlywarm, but not hot.FOR: USE:Instant Nonfat Dry Milk Non-Instant Powder Milk Water1 quart milk 1 cups ¾ cup 3¾ cups1 pint milk cup cup 1¾ cups + 2 Tbls.1 cup milk cup 3 Tbls.
Cook until slightly thickened. Fish Chowder 2 tablespoons shortening3 cups water1 cup minced onion 2 cups diced potatoespound fresh fish, or small can of fish* cup nonfat dry milk 1 tablespoon flour1 teaspoon saltteaspoon pepper Cook shortening, 2 cups water, onion, potatoes, and fish until potatoes are tender. In any recipe call-ing for milk, you can add the dry milk to other dry in-gredients. Then add the required amount of water withthe other liquid in the recipe. The food value of manydishes such as casseroles can be increased by mixing in some dry milk. Check the label on your dry milk package.
2 tablespoons water. 1/2 cup nonfat dry milk. 1-1/2 cups water. 2 tablespoons sugar. dash salt. Mix cocoa, sugar and salt in a small saucepan. Add 2 tablespoons water and blend. Heat over medium high heat until mixture starts to boil, stirring continuously. Lower heat and simmer 2-3 minutes. (If needed. another 1 teaspoon of water may be added to prevent. scorching.). Remove pan from heat. Pour syrup into a blender. Add nonfat dry milk.
The easiest thing for us is to add 2 quarts of cool water with the dry milk powder in a clean container and stir until the powder dissolves, then add this to an empty sanitized gallon jug. The 1-pint of cream can now be added and then the jug topped up to 1 gallon with cool water. A good quality NonFat Dry Powder Milk such as 'Carnation' to make 1 gallon of milk. 1/2 - 1 pint of cream (see above for options). A container to mix the dry milk and cream in. Stainless steel pot to hold 1 gallon of milk (1.5-2 gallons). Microwave safe bowl to hold curds.