A simulacrum (plural: simulacra from Latin: simulacrum, which means likeness, similarity), is a representation or imitation of a person or thing. The word was first recorded in the English language in the late 16th century, used to describe a representation, such as a statue or a painting, especially of a god. The simulacrum has long been of interest to philosophers. In his Sophist, Plato speaks of two kinds of image making. The first is a faithful reproduction, attempted to copy precisely the original. The second is intentionally distorted in order to make the copy appear correct to viewers
S IMULACRUM (simulacra) : Something that replaces reality with its representation. Jean Baudrillard in The Precession of Simulacra defines this term as follows: Simulation is no longer that of a territory, a referential being, or a substance. It is the generation by models of a real without origin or reality: a hyperreal....
Simulacra-in the era of television-are copies of things that no longer have an original (or never had one to begin with). Abstraction today is no longer that of the map, the double, the mirror or the concept. Simulation is no longer that of a territory, a referential being or a substance. It is the generation by models of a real without origin or reality: a hyperreal. The territory no longer precedes the map, nor survives it. Henceforth, it is the map that precedes the territory-PRECESSION OF SIMULACRA-it is the map that engenders the territory....(Baudrillard, 1994, p. 1).
simulation, simulacrum (1) Whether or not we live in a world of simulacra, the term is certainly important in light of how we view media. 
Simulation is the imitation of the operation of a real-world process or system over time. ...The simulacrum is never that which conceals the truth—it is the truth which conceals that there is none. The simulacrum is true. Simulacra and Simulation is most known for its discussion of symbols, signs, and how they relate to contemporaneity (simultaneous existences). It is important to note that when Baudrillard refers to the precession of simulacra in Simulacra and Simulation, he is referring to the way simulacra have come to precede the real in the sense mentioned above, rather than to any succession of historical phases of the image.
Philosopher Fredric Jameson offers photorealism as an example of artistic simulacrum, where a painting is sometimes created by copying a photograph that is itself a copy of the real. Other art forms that play with simulacra include trompe-l'oeil, œil pop, Art italian, neorealism And French New. wave The simulacrum has long been of interest to philosophers. In his Sophist, Plato speaks of two kinds of image making. The first is a faithful reproduction, attempted to copy precisely the original. The second is intentionally distorted in order to make the copy appear correct to viewers.
Baudrillard, however, did two things. Firstly, in 1981 he wrote a book called Simulacrum and Simulation, the first book directly devoted to the concept. Secondly, he changed the concept of simulacra itself: authors before him believed that a simulacrum was something that could and had to be escaped. The Matrix is more similar to Plato’s cave than to Baudrillard’s simulacrum: the Matrix can and has to be escaped. It’s clearly said that the Matrix is a fake world and leaving it means waking up in the real one.
The term “simulacrum” (plural: “simulacra”) is most commonly associated with a French philosopher Jean Baudrillard. However, he didn’t create it, he only developed the concept. The word itself comes from Latin, meaning “similarity” and the idea was already analyzed in works of Plato and many authors after him. The Matrix is more similar to Plato’s cave than to Baudrillard’s simulacrum: the Matrix can and has to be escaped. It’s clearly said that the Matrix is a fake world and leaving it means waking up in the real one.
Simulacra and Simulation (French: Simulacres et Simulation) is a 1981 philosophical treatise by Jean Baudrillard seeking to examine the relationships among reality, symbols, and society. It is important to note that when Baudrillard refers to the precession of simulacra in Simulacra and Simulation, he is referring to the way simulacra have come to precede the real in the sense mentioned above, rather than to any succession of historical phases of the image.