Iron chelate is commonly used for agricultural purposes to treat chlorosis, a condition in which leaves produce insufficient chlorophyll. In Horticulture, Iron chelate is often referred to as 'sequestered iron' and is used as a plant tonic, often mixed with other nutrients and plant foods (e.g. seaweed). It is recommended in ornamental horticulture for feeding ericaceous plants like Rhododendrons if they are growing in calcareous soils. Iron chelate, commonly present as FeEDTA(Ferric Ethylenediaminetetraacetic Acid), is also used to control broadleaf weeds in lawns. There are a few weeds that are not damaged by FeEDTA and users will likely need a traditional herbicide to accomplish the task.
Chelated iron may be included in premixed combination fertilizers. Iron supplements may be needed for optimum health if a diet doesn't produce enough. Shoppers who buy supplements should look for iron chelates on the label. When dietary sources don't provide enough iron, a supplement may be needed for optimum health. Chelated iron is simply iron that has undergone chelation, a chemical process that firmly binds the iron molecule to another substance, usually an amino acid. Chelation forms a more stable ring-shaped molecule that is easier for plants and animals to absorb
Iron chelate. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Iron chelate, also known as chelated iron, is a soluble complex of iron, sodium and a chelating agent such as ethylenediaminetetraacetate (EDTA), EDDHA, or others, used to make the iron soluble in water and, for the purposes of agriculture, accessible to plants. Iron chelate, commonly present as FeEDTA(Ferric Ethylenediaminetetraacetic Acid), is also used to control broadleaf weeds in lawns. There are a few weeds that are not damaged by FeEDTA and users will likely need a traditional herbicide to accomplish the task.
Foliar Application. Spray foliage with chelated iron to correct iron chlorosis and to enable yellow leaves to form chlorophyll and assume a healthy green color. The type of iron chelate is not critical when it is used for foliar application, so less expensive products can be used. Spray the chelated iron solution during cool weather or late in the day to avoid high temperatures during application, which can cause tissue damage. Test the chelated iron solution on a small portion of leaves to prevent loss or damage to an important plant.
Applying chelated fertilizers is an easy and practical correction method to avoid this nutrient disorder. For example, the oxidized form of iron is ferric (Fe 3+), which is not bioavailable to plants and usually forms brown ferric hydroxide precipitation (Fe(OH) 3). Ferrous sulfate is often used as the iron source. In the soil, plant roots can release exudates that contain natural chelates. The nonprotein amino acid, mugineic acid, is one such natural chelate called phytosiderophore (phyto: plant; siderophore: iron carrier) produced by graminaceous (grassy) plants grown in low-iron stress conditions.
Chelated Iron Fertilizers. Chelated iron fertilizers combine iron and a chelate, a chemical that keeps the iron in a soluble form for plants. Treating alkaline soils with iron fertilizers that are not chelated does not supply the plants with necessary iron. Applying Chelated Iron Fertilizer. Apply chelated iron fertilizers at a rate of 3 to 5 ounces per 100 square feet, or 2 to 3 pounds of fertilizer for every 1,000 square feet of soil. Read the manufacturer's instructions.
A chelate is a chemical compound composed of a metal ion and a chelating agent. A chelating agent is a substance whose molecules can form several bonds to a single metal ion. In other words, a chelating agent is a multidentate ligand. An example of a simple chelating agent is ethylenediamine. ethylenediamine. A single molecule of ethylenediamine can form two bonds to a transition-metal ion such as nickel(II), Ni 2+ .
Uses. This medication is an iron supplement used to treat or prevent low blood levels of iron (e.g., for anemia or during pregnancy). Iron is an important mineral that the body needs to produce red blood cells and keep you in good health. Iron is best absorbed on an empty stomach (usually if taken 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals). If stomach upset occurs, you may take this medication with food. See the instructions below for the liquid drops for infants/children.