Black was also used as a standard color for hair and to represent the skin colour of people from the south – Nubians and Kushites. White (Ancient Egyptian name 'hedj') was the color of purity, sacredness, cleanliness, and simplicity. Tools, sacred objects, and even priest's sandals were white for this reason.
I am now seeing more people with a primary color of turquoise in their aura and it is noticeably different than the darker teal color that used to appear with the blue in the aura. This turquoise color is one that was very predominant during the time of ancient Egypt and is returning again in many auras.
This post is part of the Color Meaning Blog Series, detailing the meanings associated with colors such as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, grey, black, white, brown, pink, turquoise, gold, silver, and beige.
Yellow (Ancient Egyptian name 'khenet') was the color of women's skin, as well as the skin of people who lived near the Mediterranean-Libyans, Bedouin, Syrians, and Hittites. Yellow was also the color of the sun and, along with gold, could represent perfection.
Turquoise is a stone that has been prized for many years. The ancient Egyptians used turquoise in jewelry. Turquoise is greenish-blue or pale sky blue. The name means Turkish stone as it came to Europe by way of Turkey. Turquoise was mined more than 6,000 years ago in Sinai.
THE COLORS AND THEIR MEANING. The Ancient Egyptian system of color symbolism was mostly but not entirely consistent throughout all regions and time periods. Colors, meanings for colors, and artistic conventions relative to color were revised or added to this system at various points of Ancient Egyptian history.
In Greece, Turkey, Egypt, and Tibet Turquoise represents purity. Because of its color, it is an ancient symbol of the sky. The ancients of the Native Indian Americans believe that Turquoise was such a strong symbol of prosperity and possitivity that it would scare away demons.
Color (Ancient Egyptian name 'iwen') was considered an integral part of an item's or person's nature in Ancient Egypt, and the term could interchangeably mean color, appearance, character, being, or nature. Items with similar color were believed to have similar properties.