Save. There are a large number of shade trees to choose from for your home garden. The shape of the tree you want and size of the tree you need are both factors that will go into choosing the best type of shade tree for your home. Planting a tree is a long-term investment since large trees live for many years.
The best way to find the fast growing shade trees that are best for your specific region is by asking a local expert, such as at a nursery or through the county Cooperative Extension office, as they can steer you toward proven varieties and away from nuisance, invasive, or exotic varieties of trees. 3. Northern Catalpa: The large showy flowers of the catalpa, also known as the cigar tree or the catawba, are an added attraction to having this fast growing shade tree in your yard (and great for bees), but the real magic comes from its thick canopy of large leaves.
An understory tree in the wild, flowering dogwoods are an excellent choice in shade plants for the landscape. On Page 2 we'll continue down the Top 10 list, looking at shade plants and shade-tolerant shrubs, annuals, perennials and rock garden plants.... Flowering dogwood trees are among the hottest landscaping trees out there. But while they are a hot item, they prefer a spot in your landscaping where it stays cool, a spot with dappled shade. For reasons I discuss below, I place dogwoods at the top of my list of shade plants.
2. Nuttall Oak: This fast growing shade tree, also called red oak or pin oak, is said to be the fastest growing variety of oak, and can provide not only a leafy canopy, but a steady supply of acorns each year, which are devoured by squirrels, deer, and turkeys. 3. 3. Northern Catalpa: The large showy flowers of the catalpa, also known as the cigar tree or the catawba, are an added attraction to having this fast growing shade tree in your yard (and great for bees), but the real magic comes from its thick canopy of large leaves.
Oak Trees. Oak trees make excellent shade trees, particularly the pin oak (Quercus palustris), red oak (Q. borealis) and white oak (Q. alba) species. Fast-growing and reaching a mature height of 60 to 70 feet and spread of 25 to 40 feet, the pin oak's unique branching formation provides dappled to dense shade. Comments. Submit. A wide variety of species make for great shade trees, some providing light shade and others dense cover. Depending on the amount of space you have in your yard and the climate where you live, there are likely a number of shade trees that will meet your needs.
Any tree can make an impact on a landscape, but a large shade tree can be truly dramatic. In addition to their beauty, climbability, poetic inspiration, and more, shade trees have many practical benefits as well. Choosing the right tree is a big decision and one that will impact your landscape for years to come. The fact is, maintaining turfgrass under shade trees can be a challenge. When grass and trees compete for water, nutrients and sunlight, usually the trees win. If you insist on grass, there are shade-tolerant grass varieties available.