How to Use a Trickle Charger. Trickle charges employ the use of a battery regulator to regulate charging rate and prevent overcharging, charging your vehicle's battery at a rate similar to the rate at which it self-discharges so as to maintain full battery capacity. There are differing opinions of how long a trickle charger can be left on a battery and for that reason, different types have been manufactured. Some trickle chargers can be left on a battery indefinitely. These would be used on a vehicle that is not used all the time or is stored away for the winter or the summer. A trickle charger built specifically for this is left on in the event that the vehicle is needed in an emergency or other unexpected situation
A trickle charger is a car battery charger designed to be left on a car for a long period of time to re-charge the battery. It slowly adds the charge to the battery and does not allow for the normal depletion of charge that batteries commonly have. There are differing opinions of how long a trickle charger can be left on a battery and for that reason, different types have been manufactured. Some trickle chargers can be left on a battery indefinitely. These would be used on a vehicle that is not used all the time or is stored away for the winter or the summer. A trickle charger built specifically for this is left on in the event that the vehicle is needed in an emergency or other unexpected situation
Can a 1 amp trickle charger overcharge a battery? After a 4 hour power outage this weekend (while we were away) I want to use a 12volt bilge pump as a backup for my sump pump, and was thinking of hooking up a small trickle charger to keep it topped off. Re: Can you overcharge a battery with trickle charger. I have an older trickle charger. The last thing you ever want to do is to leave it hooked to a battery when the power goes out. It will along alot of other battery chargers actually drain the battery. So get one that is designed to be on all the time
Re: Can you overcharge a battery with trickle charger. Another idea if your interested would be a marine deep cycle battery. Their designed to power all the way to nothing and recharge without damage to the battery. Regular batteries don't like this cycle idea as they fail faster. The current is also limited (hence the rating of the charger). When the batteries terminal voltage equals the chargers output voltage, all current flow should stop. (and maintain a trickle flow) (various events may cause this to not work perfectly) A CC chargers is just that.
Re: Can you overcharge a battery with trickle charger. I have a couple of Battery Tenders which I use for maintaining the batteries on the motorcycles over the winter. they work good and can be left hooked up basically indefinately. Re: Can you overcharge a battery with trickle charger. I have an older trickle charger. The last thing you ever want to do is to leave it hooked to a battery when the power goes out. It will along alot of other battery chargers actually drain the battery. So get one that is designed to be on all the time
Re: Can you overcharge a battery with trickle charger. There are small maintainers that will keep the battery charged, but not over charge it. I have had one on my generator battery for 4 years and never had any problems. Re: Can you overcharge a battery with trickle charger. I have an older trickle charger. The last thing you ever want to do is to leave it hooked to a battery when the power goes out. It will along alot of other battery chargers actually drain the battery. So get one that is designed to be on all the time
At the cheap end of the scale, a 2 amp manual trickle charger may require two days to fully charge a flat battery, and then it does not shut off. These cheap little units do have one nice application. In cold climates they can be used to keep the battery warm when the car is parked outside. 
Re: Can you overcharge a battery with trickle charger. you have to watch which one you get: there are MAINTAINERS and then there are trickle chargers. the trickle chargers can over charge while the maintainers are designed to shut off and on as needed to keep battery up. markM. 04-11-2005, 07:57 PM #13. The current is also limited (hence the rating of the charger). When the batteries terminal voltage equals the chargers output voltage, all current flow should stop. (and maintain a trickle flow) (various events may cause this to not work perfectly) A CC chargers is just that.