The sixteenth season of the One Piece anime series was produced by Toei Animation, and directed by Hiroaki Miyamoto. The season began broadcasting in Japan on Fuji Television from January 6, 2013 to January 12, 2014. Like the rest of the series, it follows the adventures of Monkey D. Luffy and his Straw Hat Pirates. The first of twelve DVD compilations was released on January 8, 2014, with the last being released on June 4, 2014. Luffy says that the Haki users there are him, Law, Zoro and Sanji. The marines are continuing their fight against Caesar's men. The three centaurs open the door and see a big glop of Slime that seeps out poison gas, most of them die and two survive so they run as it chases them.
List of One Piece episodes (season 10). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The tenth season of the One Piece anime series, the Thriller Bark Chapter, was produced by Toei Animation, and directed by Konosuke Uda and Munehisa Sakai based on Eiichiro Oda 's manga by the same name. It deals with the meeting and recruitment of Brook in a mysterious mist. November 18, 2014 (DVD). Luffy, Usopp, Sanji, and Zoro tell the rest of the crew how they got to meet Laboon as they started their new journey, while Brook reflects on his promise to return to Laboon amidst his duel with Ryuma.
Brook tells Luffy that he is glad to be alive and asks if he can join the crew, which Luffy approves of. All the Straw Hats are shocked by this, except for Zoro, who is sleeping, and Robin, who knew Luffy would accept him no matter what, but they nevertheless welcome him to the crew. November 18, 2014 (DVD). Luffy, Usopp, Sanji, and Zoro tell the rest of the crew how they got to meet Laboon as they started their new journey, while Brook reflects on his promise to return to Laboon amidst his duel with Ryuma.
Roronoa Zoro-He is a swordsman and the first member of Straw Hat Pirates to join the crew. Usopp-He is the crew's marksman and the second member of Straw Hat Pirates to join the crew. His alter-ego is Sogeko King Sanji-He is the third member and the chef of the Straw Hat Pirates. Nami-She is the navigator and the fourth member of Straw Hat Pirates to join the crew. (because she only officialy joins the crew after the Arlong incident) Tony Tony Chopper-He is the fifth member and the doctor of the Straw Hat Pirates. Nico Robin-She is the sixth member and the archaeologist of the Straw Hat Pirates.
Oars begins fighting Sanji, Zoro, Franky, Brook, Robin, Usopp and Chopper, having inherited Luffy's fighting style but lost his memories. The crew tries to fight against him, but learns that he is incredibly strong and fast, even if he is unable to stretch like Luffy can. November 18, 2014 (DVD). Luffy, Usopp, Sanji, and Zoro tell the rest of the crew how they got to meet Laboon as they started their new journey, while Brook reflects on his promise to return to Laboon amidst his duel with Ryuma.
Invitation Edit. Luffy invites Zoro to join his crew. Usually when he asks someone to join, Luffy is turned down completely; though the way of which he is turned down varies. Luffy never forces people to join his crew against their will. When Luffy asked Brook during the Thriller Bark Arc, Brook said yes immediately. Luffy did not directly ask Usopp to join the Straw Hats, however when Luffy, Zoro and Nami were about to sail off, Luffy assumed that Usopp would join them as they had just fought off Kuro
Before the Timeskip Edit. Brook is an extremely tall skeleton dressed in formal attire complete with top hat and cane. Standing at 266 cm (8'8½) in height, he is the tallest member of the Straw Hat crew. Despite having no skin, he still has an afro which he says is because his hair has very strong roots. He is a Devil Fruit user who ate the Yomi Yomi no Mi, and is undead, having been brought back into a pseudo-immortal state because of its powers. He is the ninth member of the Straw Hat crew, and the eighth to join Luffy's crew, as well as being the oldest member on board.
The subject of this article is sometimes spelled Brooke .  Soul King . Brook is the musician of the Straw Hat Pirates. He is a skeleton that the Straw Hats found on board of a ghost ship after drifting into the Florian Triangle. He is a Devil Fruit user who ate the Yomi Yomi no Mi, and is undead, having been brought back into a pseudo-immortal state because of its powers. He is the ninth member of the Straw Hat crew, and the eighth to join Luffy's crew, as well as being the oldest member on board.
Answers. Best Answer: Franky officially join the Straw Hats in Episode 322 after a lot of persuasion from the Franky Family. Whereas Brook officially joined them in Episode 381 after Luffy accepted his request of joining, much to the shock of the rest of the Straw Hats except for Robin and Zoro. Hopefully this helps out