The drive is long with a lot of nothing between the nice places. Sydney to Perth is almost 4 x 11 hour days of driving, so I imagine it would be almost a day less from melbourne. 
Best Answer: It could take as little as two days but I would recommend at least 4 or 5 days. Driving from Perth to Melbourne I would suggest stops at Norseman, Ceduna and Adelaide (and Melbourne if travelling to Sydney). When driving ensure that you have plenty of supplies (particularly drinking water and petrol). Report Abuse. Driving through the nullaboor from perth to adelaide non stop takes at least 36hours. But they don't really recommend driving at night with al the kangaroos around. So i'd imagine to drive perth to brisbane non stop would take approx 96 hours.
After about five days in Melbourne we started our long drive back to Perth. We planned to follow the coast on the way back providing a change of scenery, and due to the extra distance decided to take give ourselves a little over six days of travelling time. 
Report Abuse. Have driven many times across to Adelaide in 3 days with no night driving, 2 drivers. Melbourne is only around 10 hrs from Adelaide. Too dangerous to drive at night, have hit 2 roos myself and wombats are a big worry too because they can rip ur sump out. Best Answer: About 4 -5 days if you take your time. The Greyhound buses can do it in 3 days, but they drive non-stop (aside from meal breaks) the entire distance.
TOUGHEST PART. The last section of the long, long drive from Adelaide to Melbourne is one of the shortest in distance, at 725km. But it will feel like the longest and could take up to 11 hours. Much of the road is restricted to speed limits of 100km/h and there are many more towns and built-up areas. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: About 4 -5 days if you take your time. The Greyhound buses can do it in 3 days, but they drive non-stop (aside from meal breaks) the entire distance. Australia is about 4000 Kms coast to coa
How long is the drive from Perth, Australia to Melbourne, Australia? The total driving time is 33 hours, 19 minutes. Your trip begins in Perth, Australia. It ends in Melbourne, Australia. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from Perth, Australia to Melbourne, Australia. You can also calculate the cost to drive from Perth, Australia to Melbourne, Australia based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. If you're meeting a friend, you might be interested in finding the city that is halfway between Perth, Australia and
It takes about three and a half hours to fly from Perth to Melbourne, but the flight from Melbourne to Perth is about 4 hours because of the direction of prevailing winds. Four hours and fifteen minutes. Perth is two hours behind Melbourne, so if you left Melbourne at 12 noon you would get to Perth at 2.15 pm. 1st answer: Flight: Perth (PER) to Adelaide (ADL) Shortest Flight Duration 2 hours 45 mins Distance: The distance between Perth and Adelaide is 1307 miles (2104 km). Ad … elaide to Perth is just over 2000km in a straight line.
Answer   It takes about three and a half hours to fly from Perth to Melbourne, but the flight from Melbourne to Perth is about 4 hours because of the direction of prevail … ing winds.   Four hours and fifteen minutes. The distance from Melbourne to Perth by road is 3420km. The average human walking speed is 4kph. And let's say one will walk for 9 hours a day. So 3420 divided by 4 is … 855, divide 855 by 9 and you get 95. It would take 95 days to walk to Perth at 4kph