Griffiths is also known for resurrecting the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). The ERA was a proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution that guaranteed equal rights under the law for Americans regardless of their sex. The ERA was first drafted in 1923 by suffragist Alice Paul. Martha Griffiths (D-MI) was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1955-1974. She was the first woman to serve on the powerful House Committee on Ways and Means and was instrumental in getting the prohibition of sex discrimination added to the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964.
The 15 states whose legislatures have not ratified the Equal Rights Amendment are Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Utah, and Virginia. The Equal Rights Amendment has been reintroduced in every session of Congress since 1982. In the 113th Congress (2013-2014), ERA ratification bills were introduced as S.J.Res. 10 (lead sponsor, Senator Robert Menendez, D-NJ) and H.J.Res.
1 Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. 4  Section 3. National Council of Women's Organizations. 1  Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.
Equal Rights Amendment. The Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution was first proposed in the United States Congress in December 1923. It was promoted by Alice Paul and National Women's party, but opposed by many of their colleagues who had worked to pass the Nineteenth Amendment (women's suffrage) in 1920. However, it was not until 1972 that a version of ERA was passed by the Senate and sent onto the states for ratification. By then the Legacy of the 1960s revolution in civil rights seemed to assure the amendment's passage.
Frequently Asked Questions. The proposed Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) to the United States Constitution is a political and cultural inkblot, onto which many people project their greatest hopes or deepest fears about the changing status of women. The Equal Rights Amendment has been reintroduced in every session of Congress since 1982. In the 113th Congress (2013-2014), ERA ratification bills were introduced as S.J.Res. 10 (lead sponsor, Senator Robert Menendez, D-NJ) and H.J.Res.
The legal analysis for this strategy is outlined in The Equal Rights Amendment: Why the ERA Remains Legally Viable and Properly Before the States, an article by Allison Held, Sheryl Herndon, and Danielle Stager in the Spring 1997 issue of William & Mary Journal of Women and the Law. National Council of Women's Organizations. 1  Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.
The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution designed to guarantee equal rights for women. The ERA was originally written by Alice Paul and Crystal Eastman. In 1923, it was introduced in the Congress for the first time. 