Carbon fixation. Carbon fixation. (Science: plant biology) The process by which photosynthetic organisms such as plants turn inorganic carbon (usually carbon dioxide) into organic compounds (us. Carbohydrates). Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
In this lesson you will discover what carbon fixation means, when it occurs and what enzyme is involved. The lesson will discuss where the process of carbon fixation falls in photosynthesis as well as give a brief idea of a process by which carbon can be freed from fixation. This process of carbon fixation is actually the first step in the Calvin Cycle, also known as the Carbon Fixation Cycle or C3 cycle. The first thing the cell needs is a molecule called ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate or RuBP for short.
Carbon fixation (The Calvin Cycle). Carbon fixation stage in photosynthesis. The carbon fixation stage occurs in the stroma and results in the production of glucose [glucose: a simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration] . 1 CO 2 is accepted by the 5C compound ribulose 1,5-biphosphate (RuBP) to form an unstable 6C compound. 2  The 6C compound formed immediately splits into two molecules [molecules: a collection of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds.
The Calvin Cycle is the most common method of carbon fixation. In plants, there are three types of carbon fixation during photosynthesis: C3 – a plant that uses the Calvin Cycle for the initial steps that incorporate CO2 into organic matter, forming a 3-carbon compound as the first stable intermediate. Most broadleaf plants and plants in the temperate zones are C3.
photosynthetic organisms use sunlight to create energy which is stored in the form of several chemical compounds. in the Calvin Cycle, the energy is used to transform carbon dioxide into a sugar in a process which is sometimes referred to as carbon fixation. 
Carbon fixation is the process by which inorganic carbon is added to an organic molecule. Carbon fixation occurs during the light independent reaction of photosynthesis and is the first step in the C3 or Calvin Cycle. This process of carbon fixation is actually the first step in the Calvin Cycle, also known as the Carbon Fixation Cycle or C3 cycle. The first thing the cell needs is a molecule called ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate or RuBP for short.
Carbon fixation or сarbon assimilation refers to the conversion process of inorganic carbon (carbon dioxide) to organic compounds by living organisms. The most prominent example is photosynthesis, although chemosynthesis is another form of carbon fixation that can take place in the absence of sunlight. Organisms that grow by fixing carbon are called autotrophs. Autotrophs include photoautotrophs, which synthesize organic compounds using the energy of sunlight, and lithoautotrophs, which synthesize organic compounds using the energy of inorganic oxidation. Heterotrophs are organisms that grow using the carbon fixed by
Carbon Fixation. Carbon fixation is a process found in autotrophs (organisms that produce their own food), usually driven by photosynthesis, whereby carbon dioxide is changed into organic materials. Carbon fixation can also be carried out by the process of calcification in marine, calcifying organisms such as Emiliania huxleyi. In plants, there are three types of carbon fixation during photosynthesis: C3 – a plant that uses the Calvin Cycle for the initial steps that incorporate CO2 into organic matter, forming a 3-carbon compound as the first stable intermediate. Most broadleaf plants and plants in the temperate zones are C3.