At the same time, I had first learned about nagalase, a blood test that is used to in part determine whether or not one might be a candidate for GcMAF therapy. Nagalase is an enzyme that prevents Vitamin D receptors (VDR) from being activated on the surface of the macrophage. 
Nagalase Blood Test. The Nagalase blood test helps us, at Reno Integrative Medical Center, to identify the activity of an enzyme called Nagalase that helps cancer cells hide from the immune system. They do this by producing a protective enzyme called alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase or Nagalase for short. The Nagalase enzyme has the ability to completely shut down the activity of the localized immune macrophage cell, whose job it is to destroy any cell that has been harmed or is not functioning normally.
Nagalase in blood is a sensitive test for monitoring the efficacy of therapy in cancer and certain viral infections, including HIV and recently HSV-1/2. Nagalase is an extracellular matrix-degrading enzyme that is secreted by cancerous cells in the process of tumor invasion. It is also an intrinsic component of the envelope protein of various virions, such as HIV and the influenza virus.
It’s called the Nagalase test. It is a simple blood test that measures the presence of the enzyme Nagalase. Nagalase is produced by cancer cells (and some viruses) and not by healthy cells. Any amount of Nagalase in your blood means that there are cancer cells that are multiplying and dividing. The beauty of the Nagalse test is that it is super sensitive….it can detect cancer when it is at the cellular stage instead of the tumor stage. It can take 5-8 years for a tumor to develop and be seen on an x-ray or in blood work.
Nagalase Blood Test. $197.00. The Nagalase test is a simple blood test that measures the presence of the enzyme Nagalase. Nagalase is produced by cancer cells (and some viruses) and not by healthy cells. Any amount of Nagalase in your blood means that there are cancer cells that are multiplying and dividing. Nagalase basically cripples your Immune System so that the macrophages that gobble up and dismantle cancer cells can no longer do their job. The beauty of the Nagalase test is that it is super sensitive. It can detect cancer when it is at the cellular stage instead of the tumor stage. It can take 5-8 years for a tumor to develop and be seen on an x-ray or in blood work
The test measures the activity of alfa-N-acetylgalactosaminidase (nagalase) in blood. Nagalase is an extracellular matrix-degrading enzyme that is (increased) secreted by cancerous cells in the process of tumour invasion. Strict Standards: Only variables should be assigned by reference in /home/wwwnagal/public_html/components/com_proforms/router.php on line 41.
There is evidence that the Nagalase produced by tumors has an “immuno-suppressive” effect. It is thought that the Nagalse-mediated immune-suppression in cancer patients contributes to the growth of the existing tumor and the formation of metastases. The Nagalase is isolated from a serum sample and enzyme activity is measured in a quantitative manner. This test procedure is known as “Nagalase-Test”. Increased serum Nagalase levels have been described in many diseases, but especially in cancer (Thyer et al.
The test measures the activity of an enzyme α-N-acetylgalactosaminidase (nagalase) in blood. Nagalase is an extracellular matrix-degrading enzyme that is secreted by cancerous cells in the process of tumor invasion. It is also an intrinsic component of the envelope protein of various virions, such as HIV and the influenza virus.
exposes the cancer so we can De-cloak  it. A test measuring the level of nagalase in the blood can be used to provide a measure of progress during treatment for cancer. Remember, the more cancer cells there are, the higher the fermentation process is. They do this by producing a protective enzyme called alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase or Nagalase for short. The Nagalase enzyme has the ability to completely shut down the activity of the localized immune macrophage cell, whose job it is to destroy any cell that has been harmed or is not functioning normally.