Blood tests are done at your doctor's office, but are used less often than urine tests. These tests can detect pregnancy earlier than a home pregnancy test, or about six to eight days after ovulation. But with these tests, it takes longer to get the results than with a home pregnancy test. Two types of blood pregnancy tests are available: A qualitative hCG test simply checks to see if hCG is present
In simpler terms, you could expect the Aimstrip test to detect pregnancy anywhere from 8 to 10 days following ovulation, although women who are able to obtain a positive determination this early are very few. However, there are many more women who will have a positive pregnancy result 10 to 12 days after ovulation. Sensitive pregnancy tests will allow you to test earlier and find out if you are more quickly than the less sensitive varieties. If you have an accurate sense of your menstrual cycle and are ready to accept the emotional repercussions of a potential miscarriage, you can take a sensitive pregnancy test that can detect hCG levels at 10 to 20 mIU just 8 to 10 days following
The majority of the pregnancy tests on the market today are able to detect an hCG range between 20 mIU and 50 mIU. The hCG in your urine, if you are pregnant, will typically be 25 mIU around 4 days prior to your period start date, which is roughly 11 days after your positive ovulation test. However, this is all dependent on when your fertilized egg actually implanted
pregnant and take a pregnancy test on 4 days past ovulation you are most likely to get a False Negative test result. 88.1% of tests taken by pregnant women were negatives-thus making them false negatives. A false negative result is when a pregnancy test indicates that you are not pregnant but you actually are. 
Blood tests can find hCG six to eight days after ovulation, and in most cases urine tests take about two weeks after ovulation. hCG is measured in thousandths of International Units, or mIU. Pregnancy tests with a sensitivity of 20 mIU/ml are more sensitive than tests with 50 to 100 mIU/ml. Home pregnancy tests, if done correctly, can be 99% accurate. However, many women test too early in their cycles, not giving enough time for hCG to build up in her system. It’s best to take the test after you have missed a period, or 14 days after ovulation. Testing any earlier can give you negative results.
Doctors often order these tests to confirm pregnancy as early as 10 days after a missed period. However, some of these tests can detect hCG much earlier. A quantitative hCG test (beta hCG) measures the exact amount of hCG in your blood. It can find even very low levels of hCG. These tests can detect pregnancy earlier than a home pregnancy test, or about six to eight days after ovulation. But with these tests, it takes longer to get the results than with a home pregnancy test.
Therefore, the simple answer to the how early can you take a pregnancy test question is between 7 and 10 days after ovulation ...much better than waiting a full two weeks! More Pregnancy Test Articles. 1  Pregnancy Test Strips. 2  Pregnancy Midstream Tests. 
84 percent of these pregnancies show implantation as occurring 8 to 10 days after ovulation, challenging the idea that 7 days is the norm. So, if you receive a negative pregnancy test, it might not mean that you aren’t pregnant. If you have an accurate sense of your menstrual cycle and are ready to accept the emotional repercussions of a potential miscarriage, you can take a sensitive pregnancy test that can detect hCG levels at 10 to 20 mIU just 8 to 10 days following ovulation.
Yes | No Thank you! Testing a week after ovulation is way too early. The implantation probably hasn't even happened at that point. There are some tests that MAY show a postive at about 10 DPO but the accuracy is at only 50%. It also depends how long your luteal phase is. 