These little spheres are the flower buds of a prickly shrub that grows all over the Mediterranean. Eaten raw, capers are unpalatably bitter, but once cured in a vinegar brine or in salt, they develop an intense flavor that is all at once salty, sour, herbal, and slightly medicinal. Rinse brined capers before using. Salt-packed capers are too salty to be eaten straight from the jar; soak them in cool water for about 15 minutes and rinse in several changes of water. If the capers are large, you can chop them roughly unless you want a big burst of caper flavor.
Really small, peppercorn-sized capers, called 'nonpareille' are available, but the slightly larger ones are more common. Capers are preserved a number of ways-either in salt, wine vinegar, brine or olive oil. The brine-pickled type has the sharpest flavour and is slightly less versatile than the salted type. 
The plant is best known for the edible flower buds (capers), often used as a seasoning, and the fruit (caper berries), both of which are usually consumed pickled. Other species of Capparis are also picked along with C. spinosa for their buds or fruits. 
Dark green buds which are sun-dried and then packed in a vinegar brine. Capers range in size from tiny nonpareils from France, favored for their delicate texture and more pronounced taste to larger sizes, which are stronger in flavor and less aromatic. 
It's what makes them so expensive. After being picked, capers are sorted by size and then dried, brined or salted, processed and packaged. The smallest size, called nonpareil, is the most desirable and most often used in recipes. Next time you want to add some salty flavor to your dishes, try using capers. 
A caper is colloquially a crime or similar scheme (e.g. a bank caper). In reference to cooking, a caper is a bud of the plant Capparis spinosa, which is native to the Me … diterranean region. Capers are either preserved in brine (pickled), or packed with salt crystals. They are widely used in Italian and Sicilian cooking. The chef Marcella Hazan prefers capers packed in salt to the pickled variety. The verb The verb to caper means to leap or skip about in a sprightly manner, to prance, frisk, or gambol. 
Capers come vinegar-brined or salt-packed. Brined capers have the advantage of an almost indefinite shelf life, but the vinegar sharpens their flavor. Salted capers have a pure flavor, but they don't last as long because the salt eventually pulls out all their moisture. Capers taste especially good with fish and other foods that tend to be oily or rich. Rinse brined capers before using. Salt-packed capers are too salty to be eaten straight from the jar; soak them in cool water for about 15 minutes and rinse in several changes of water. If the capers are large, you can chop them roughly unless you want a big burst of caper flavor.
About. Caper brine is the salty vinegar brine from the jar that capers are pickled in. Caper buds are often used as a garnish in many Mediterranean dishes, typically Italian. They are very frequently used in Sicilian cookery. Caper brine is usually found in the condiments section or aisle of the grocery store or supermarket.
Follow @WhatsCookingUSA. Follow @WhatsCookingUSA. Capers are the unopened green flower buds of the Capparis spinosa (Capparidaceae-caper family-closely related to the cabbage family), a wild and cultivated bush that is grown mainly in Mediterranean countries (southern France, Italy, and Algeria) and also in California. After the buds are picked, they are usually sun-dried, and then pickled in a vinegar brine. Capers can range in size from that of a tiny peppercorn (the petite variety from southern France, considered the finest) to some as large as the tip of your little finger (from Italy).