Thoracic cavity seen from left. Lungs, among others removed. The thoracic cavity (or chest cavity) is the chamber of the human body (and other animal bodies) that is protected by the thoracic wall (rib cage and associated skin, muscle, and fascia). The central compartment of the thoracic cavity is the mediastinum. 
mediastinum-the part of the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart and aorta and esophagus and trachea and thymus. chest, pectus, thorax-the part of the human torso between the neck and the diaphragm or the corresponding part in other vertebrates. 
1. chest cavity-the cavity in the vertebrate body enclosed by the ribs between the diaphragm and the neck and containing the lungs and heart. thoracic cavity. bodily cavity, cavum, cavity - (anatomy) a natural hollow or sinus within the body. mediastinum-the part of the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart and aorta and esophagus and trachea and thymus. chest, pectus, thorax-the part of the human torso between the neck and the diaphragm or the corresponding part in other vertebrates.
mediastinum (the part of the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart and aorta and esophagus and trachea and thymus). Holonyms (thoracic cavity is a part of...): chest; pectus; thorax (the part of the human torso between the neck and the diaphragm or the corresponding part in other vertebrates). The cavity in the vertebrate body enclosed by the ribs between the diaphragm and the neck and containing the lungs and heart.
Definition. Thoracic surgery is the repair of organs located in the thorax, or chest. The thoracic cavity lies between the neck and the diaphragm, and contains the heart and lungs (cardiopulmonary system), the esophagus, trachea, pleura, mediastinum, chest wall, and diaphragm. 
Medical Definition of THORACIC CAVITY. : the division of the body cavity that lies above the diaphragm, is bounded peripherally by the wall of the chest, and contains the heart and lungs. What made you want to look up thoracic cavity? Tweet. : the division of the body cavity that lies above the diaphragm, is bounded peripherally by the wall of the chest, and contains the heart and lungs.
The noun THORACIC CAVITY has 1 sense: 1. the cavity in the vertebrate body enclosed by the ribs between the diaphragm and the neck and containing the lungs and heart. Familiarity information: THORACIC CAVITY used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. • THORACIC CAVITY (noun). T
thoracic cavity. Definitions: 1. the space within the thoracic walls, bounded below by the diaphragm and above by the base of the neck or superior thoracic aperture. Synonyms: cavitas thoracica/thoracis, cavum thoracis. The definition information for thoracic cavity is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here