This is best suited for twisted-style dreads to minimize the appearance of the client’s natural hair. Price : $40/hr (full 80 – 100 SE install takes 8 – 10 hours, full 40 – 50 DE install takes 4 – 6 hours). To make an appointment or get a price estimate please fill out the form HERE ! 
The price for dreadlock maintenance is $160 for the first two hours and $80 each hour thereafter (a minimum of $160 applies). With myself and an assistant working on your dreads, it's rare that a session will go over the two hour mark. Due to rent and other overheads, hairdressers and dreadlock salons typically charge anywhere from $75 to $150 an hour. Depending on how experienced they are, it can take them up to 10 hours (leaving you with one sore bottom!). I normally work with an assistant which reduces the time it takes.
-20 inches of lenght which cost $350 and usually take up to 12,5 hours to instrall time varies according; hair-type, style, multi colours, lenght and amount of dreadlocks. - 24 inches of length which cost $450 and usually takes up 15 hours, again depending on your chosen style. The rate is $60 per hour per person on weekdays and $80 on weekends/public holidays. Shoulder lenght hair usually takes 3-5hrs, below the shoulders 4-6hrs and long hair 6hrs plus. Time varies according to hair-type and thickness, the structure and width of dreadlocks you choose.
1 The costs associated depend largely on the condition of your dreads. 2  It usually takes 1 – 3 hours, but for bigger jobs which include restructuring the dreadlocks at the scalp section, frizz and re-growth, it will be finished in around 5 hours or more. 1 Like any other salon services, the cost of dreadlocks varies from one salon to another. 2  A few charge higher than the others. 3  This is the reason that it pays a lot to do your research first before signing up for a loctician to do your hair.
1 Though these are artificial, they can be expensive since it takes a lot of time and effort to make them. 2  According to OrganicDreadlocks.com, a 16-inch of length costs $250 and usually takes up to 10 hours of work to dread into hair. 3  A 24-inch length extension costs $350 and usually takes up 15 hours. 1 Like any other salon services, the cost of dreadlocks varies from one salon to another. 2  A few charge higher than the others. 3  This is the reason that it pays a lot to do your research first before signing up for a loctician to do your hair.
Thank you. A: The cost of getting a dreadlock hairstyle started at a salon can be rather daunting. There have been quotes of prices ranging from $100 to $600 for the initial dreadlock styling (U.S. dollars).
I have had Locks for years, three times actually. And you can actually get your locks done at a shop but its gonna cost! Depending on what size, what style, and how long your hair is. The price can go up to $600 depending on the style. I usually do them myself but I sometimes treat my self and get them washed, conditioned and twisted at a shop. Dreads cost 35 at the institute because it is considered a special even hairstyle. You can do them yourself as well and it does take time. They are very clean and look nice if maintained well. skelly20 · 1 year ago.
How much does a full head of dreads cost? The rate is $60 per hour per person on weekdays and $80 on weekends/public holidays. Shoulder lenght hair usually takes 3-5hrs, below the shoulders 4-6hrs and long hair 6hrs plus. Time varies according to hair-type and thickness, the structure and width of dreadlocks you choose.
1 Prices for these artificial dreads vary from one salon to another. 2  Though these are artificial, they can be expensive since it takes a lot of time and effort to make them. 3  According to OrganicDreadlocks.com, a 16-inch of length costs $250 and usually takes up to 10 hours of work to dread into hair. 1 Like any other salon services, the cost of dreadlocks varies from one salon to another. 2  A few charge higher than the others. 3  This is the reason that it pays a lot to do your research first before signing up for a loctician to do your hair.
1 Length of the hair. 2  This influences the time the loctician needs to get the dreadlocks completed. 3  Shoulder length hair usually takes 3 – 5 hours, below the shoulders for about 4 – 6 hours, and long hair for more than 6 hours. 1 Like any other salon services, the cost of dreadlocks varies from one salon to another. 2  A few charge higher than the others. 3  This is the reason that it pays a lot to do your research first before signing up for a loctician to do your hair.