Inventory Turnover Ratio. The inventory turnover ratio is an efficiency ratio that shows how effectively inventory is managed by comparing cost of goods sold with average inventory for a period. This measures how many times average inventory is turned or sold during a period. Formula. The inventory turnover ratio is calculated by dividing the cost of goods sold for a period by the average inventory for that period. Average inventory is used instead of ending inventory because many companies' merchandise fluctuates greatly throughout the year.
Posted in: Financial statement analysis/Accounting ratios analysis. Inventory turnover ratio (ITR) is an activity ratio that evaluates the liquidity of inventories of a company. It measures how many times the company has sold and replaced its inventory during a certain period of time. 
High Inventory Turnover. Inventory turnover is an indicator of the demand for the company’s products. If inventory turnover is high, it means that the company’s product is in demand. It could also mean the company initiated an effective advertising campaign or sales promotion that caused a boost in sales. 
Inventory Turnover Ratio. Inventory turnover is an efficiency ratio which calculates the number of times per period a business sells and replaces its entire batch of inventories. It is the ratio of cost of goods sold by a business during an accounting period to the average inventories of the business during the period. 
Email. 365 – Days in year. Definition. Inventory turnover is a measure of the number of times inventory is sold or used in a given time period such as one year. It is a good indicator of inventory quality (whether the inventory is obsolete or not), efficient buying practices, and inventory management.
Definition. Financial ratios that measure an asset's activity or efficiency in generating or turning-over cash. For example, inventory turnover ratio (Cost of sales ÷ inventory value) shows how many times an inventory was turned into cash during an accounting period. 
DEFINITION of 'Inventory Turnover'. Inventory turnover is a ratio showing how many times a company's inventory is sold and replaced over a period. The days in the period can then be divided by the inventory turnover formula to calculate the days it takes to sell the inventory on hand or inventory turnover days.. 
Inventory Turnover Formula | Stock Turnover Ratio. The inventory turnover formula measures the rate at which inventory is used over a measurement period. 
Definition. Number of times a firm's investment in inventory is recouped during an accounting period. Normally a high number indicates a greater sales efficiency and a lower risk of loss through un-saleable stock. 
inventory turnover. A measure indicating the number of times a firm sells and replaces its inventory during a given period and calculated by dividing the cost of goods sold by the average inventory level. Inventory Turnover. A measure of how long it takes, on average, for a company to sell and replace its inventory. Inventory turnover can help a company or potential investor determine how well the company manages