People prone to develop keloid should avoid piercings, tattoos and unnecessary surgery. Keloid is an overgrowth of the scar tissue that develops around a wound, usually after the wound has healed. A keloid scar is sometimes confused with a hypertrophic scar. However, keloid usually grows beyond the borders of the original wound whereas in a hypertrophic scar the tissue stays within the wound border. Keloid is an overgrowth of scar tissue that develops around a wound. The cause is not known but it's more common in people who have darker skins. Various treatments are available.
Keloids can be considered to be  scars that don't know when to stop.. A keloid, sometimes referred to as a keloid scar, is a tough heaped-up scar that rises quite abruptly above the rest of the skin. It usually has a smooth top and a pink or purple color. Keloids are irregularly shaped and tend to enlarge progressively. Unlike scars, keloids do not regress over time. Treatment, such as injections of cortisone (steroids), can speed this process. Keloids, by contrast, may start sometime after a cutaneous injury and extend beyond the wound site. This tendency to migrate into surrounding areas that weren't injured originally distinguishes keloids from hypertrophic scars.
Keloids occur from the overgrowth of scar tissue; symptoms will occur at a site of previous skin injury. Symptoms include: 1  area that is flesh-colored, pink or red in color. 2  a lumpy or ridged area of skin. 3  an area that continues to grow larger with scar tissue over time. 4  itchy patch of skin. While keloid scars may be itchy, they are typically not harmful to your health. You may experience some discomfort or tenderness, or possible irritation from clothing or other forms of friction. In rare instances, a person may experience keloid scarring on a significant amount of their body.
Keloids. When skin is injured, fibrous tissue (called scar tissue) forms over the wound to repair and protect the injury. In some cases, scar tissue grows excessively, forming smooth, hard growths called keloids. While keloid scars may be itchy, they are typically not harmful to your health. You may experience some discomfort or tenderness, or possible irritation from clothing or other forms of friction. In rare instances, a person may experience keloid scarring on a significant amount of their body.
Sometimes the scar is hypertrophic, or thickened, but confined to the margin of the original wound. Hypertrophic scars tend to be redder and often regress spontaneously (a process which can take one year or more). Treatment, such as injections of cortisone (steroids), can speed this process. Keloids, by contrast, may start sometime after a cutaneous injury and extend beyond the wound site. This tendency to migrate into surrounding areas that weren't injured originally distinguishes keloids from hypertrophic scars.
Definition and Historical Background. A keloid is an abnormal proliferation of scar tissue that forms at the site of cutaneous injury (eg, on the site of a surgical incision or trauma); it does not regress and grows beyond the original margins of the scar. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A keloid is a scar consisting mainly of type I and some type III collagen, along with elastin, fibronectin, and proteoglycans. The scar presents as a raised area at the site of a former wound. They are benign tumors that can can expand well beyond the area of the original wound. Keloid scars are often accompanied by itching. Keloids may develop as a result of a piercing. Keloids may develop as a result of shaving irritation. Insect bites may cause keloids. Individuals of African descent are more susceptible to developing keloids. Tea tree oil may be useful in treat
(Discuss) Proposed since October 2014. A keloid (/ˈkiːlɔɪd/ ; also keloidal scar) is the formation of a type of scar which, depending on its maturity, is composed mainly of either type III (early) or type I (late) collagen. Removing the scar is one treatment option; however, it may result in more severe consequences: the probability that the resulting surgery scar will also become a keloid is high, usually greater than 50%. Laser treatment has also been used with varying degrees of success.
an overgrowth of collagenous scar tissue at the site of a skin injury, particularly a wound or a surgical incision. The new tissue is elevated, rounded, and firm. Young women and African-Americans are particularly susceptible to keloid formation. keloid. KELOID. An exuberant scar that forms at the site of an injury (or an incision) and spreads beyond the borders of the original lesion. The scar is made up of a swirling mass of collagen fibers and fibroblasts. Grossly it appears to have a shiny surface and a rubbery consistency.