Lipids are broken down into fatty acids. Proteins are broken down into amino acids. Nucleic acids are broken down into nucleotides. With the exception of water and salt, everything we eat comes from a living thing. The burrito you are eating consists of all things that were alive. The lettuce is made up of plant cells. The steak is made of muscle cells. The tortilla is made of plant cells from corn. We often mention the carb, protein and fat content of a food but don’t talk about the nucleic acid content
Overview. The nucleic acids, DNA and RNA, are required for the storage and expression of genetic information. Nucleic acids are made up of purines and pyrimidines, which are carbon-and nitrogen-containing molecules derived from carbon dioxide and amino acids like glutamine. Because they are formed in the body, nucleic acids are not essential nutrients. Meats. All meats, including organ meats, and seafood contain high levels of nucleic acids. Meat extracts and gravies are also notably high. Of these foods, organ meats such as liver have the most nuclei, and are therefore highest in nucleic acids.
Answers. Best Answer: The meat contains the proteins and nucleic acid chains. The bun contains carbohydrates as starch. The lettuce contains complex carbohydrates in the form of celulose as well as DNA and RNA chains. 1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).
Post. Share. DNA or deoxyribonucleic acid codes for your genetic make-up. There are lots of facts about DNA, but here are 10 that are particularly interesting, important, or fun. DNA vs RNA. 1 Every human being shares 99% of their DNA with every other human. 2  If you put all the DNA molecules in your body end to end, the DNA would reach from the Earth to the Sun and back over 600 times (100 trillion times six feet divided by 92 million miles).
im not sure about nucleic acid.. nucleic acid is the component of ur DNA. in the making of protein, DNA is transcribed into mRNA then translated into amino acids (amino acid is a form of protein)... ive never heard that it cud be some food major chemical. hope this helps. Source(s): i study biochem.
The two main types of nucleic acids in your body are called deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA, and ribonucleic acid, RNA. There are several sub-types of RNA, including messenger RNA, mRNA, transfer RNA, tRNA, and ribosomal RNA, rRNA. Your nucleic acids are composed of building block units called nucleotides that are linked together in a chain. DNA stores your genetic information in the nucleus of your cells. Your DNA consists of two nucleotide chains formed into a double helix and organized into structures called chromosomes. In contrast, your RNA consists of single nucleotide chains, and it is synthesized from your DNA.
Furthermore, nucleic acids contain specific segments called genes that are responsible for producing every protein in your body. Expression of your genes controls the biological characteristics and function of your entire body. DNA stores your genetic information in the nucleus of your cells. Your DNA consists of two nucleotide chains formed into a double helix and organized into structures called chromosomes. In contrast, your RNA consists of single nucleotide chains, and it is synthesized from your DNA.
Beans, peas, lentils, spinach, asparagus, cauliflower and mushrooms are all vegetable sources of nucleic acids, specifically purines. Rapidly growing foods like asparagus have the highest amount of nucleic acids of the vegetables. Lettuce, tomatoes and other green vegetables are not significant sources of nucleic acids. Meats. All meats, including organ meats, and seafood contain high levels of nucleic acids. Meat extracts and gravies are also notably high. Of these foods, organ meats such as liver have the most nuclei, and are therefore highest in nucleic acids.