Time difference between Malaysia and USA is: -12:0 hours. Malaysia is 12:0 hours ahead of USA. That means when it is 6:00 am (morning) in Washington DC USA, it is 6:00 pm in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia. Use the GMT time zone converter to convert any city / time zone to all other city /time zones and get the corresponding local times. * Cities observing Daylight Saving Time (DST) / Summer Time. Daylight Saving Time (DST) / Summer Time is taken into account for all time calculations on this site
Schedule a phone call from United States to Malaysia. If you live in United States and you want to call a friend in Malaysia, you can try calling them between 5:00 PM and 9:00 AM your time. This will be between 7AM - 11PM their time, since Malaysia is 14 hours ahead of United States. If you're available any time, but you want to reach someone in Malaysia at work, you may want to try between 7:00 PM and 3:00 AM your time. This is the best time to reach them from 9AM - 5PM during normal working hours. Meeting planner for United States and Malaysia. Unfortunately, there aren't any times that overlap between your normal working hours and theirs. The best we can do with the meeting planner is to expand the range to cover from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM your time (United States).
Time difference between Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and Los Angeles, California, USA. Kuala Lumpur is 15 hours ahead of Los Angeles. Find out the distance between Kuala Lumpur and Los Angeles. Find out the time difference between Kuala Lumpur and other cities. Find out the time difference between Los Angeles
in Washington DC (USA), This page displays the time difference between Washington DC (capital of USA) and Kuala Lumpur (capital of Malaysia). To see the time difference for other cities in USA and Malaysia use the time difference calculator to the right. Wondering what time it would be in Malaysia when it is for instance 12:00 noon in USA? Use the GMT time zone converter to convert any city / time zone to all other city /time zones and get the corresponding local times.
The world time zone converter / time difference calculator will tell you the time difference between two different world locations. Enter a time in to the world time zone converter input boxes and click out of them to find out this time in the other world location. 
in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), This page displays the time difference between Kuala Lumpur (capital of Malaysia) and Washington DC (capital of USA). To see the time difference for other cities in Malaysia and USA use the time difference calculator to the right. Use the GMT time zone converter to convert any city / time zone to all other city /time zones and get the corresponding local times. * Cities observing Daylight Saving Time (DST) / Summer Time. Daylight Saving Time (DST) / Summer Time is taken into account for all time calculations on this site
Search for a city's time difference: Find the difference in time between your location and locations around the world... Suggestions: Redmond | Seattle | Everett | Tacoma | Shelton. Add or subtract the given number of hours to/from Kuala Lumpur time to get the time in these cities. Note: Time zone differences will vary during the year, as different countries observe DST during different periods.