The atmosphere has a mass of about 5.15 × 10 kg, three quarters of which is within about 11 km (6.8 mi; 36,000 ft) of the surface. The atmosphere becomes thinner and thinner with increasing altitude, with no definite boundary between the atmosphere and outer space. The Karman kármán, line at 100 (km 62), mi or.157 % Of'earth s, radius is often used as the border between the atmosphere and outer. Space atmospheric effects become noticeable during atmospheric reentry of spacecraft at an altitude of around 120 (km 75). mi
The exosphere is the outermost layer of Earth's atmosphere (i.e. the upper limit of the atmosphere). It extends from the exobase, which is located at the top of the thermosphere at an altitude of about 700 km above sea level, to about 10,000 km (6,200 mi; 33,000,000 ft). The Karman kármán, line at 100 (km 62), mi or.157 % Of'earth s, radius is often used as the border between the atmosphere and outer. Space atmospheric effects become noticeable during atmospheric reentry of spacecraft at an altitude of around 120 (km 75). mi
The common name air is given to the atmospheric gases used in breathing and photosynthesis. By volume, dry air contains 78.09% nitrogen, 20.95% oxygen, 0.93% argon, 0.039% carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases. The Karman kármán, line at 100 (km 62), mi or.157 % Of'earth s, radius is often used as the border between the atmosphere and outer. Space atmospheric effects become noticeable during atmospheric reentry of spacecraft at an altitude of around 120 (km 75). mi
The general concepts found in this section are: 1  The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3  Various trace gases make up the remainder
Oxygen is the most abundant element in rocks in Earth's crust, composing roughly 47 percent of the weight of all rock. The second most abundant element is silicon at 27 percent, followed by aluminum at 8 percent, iron at 5 percent, calcium at 4 percent, and sodium, potassium, and magnesium at about 2 percent each. Geologists think the temperature of Earth's outer core is about 6,700 to 7,800 degrees F (3,700 to 4,300 degrees C), and the inner core may reach 12,600 degrees F (7,000 degrees C), hotter than the surface of the sun. Only the enormous pressures found at the super-hot inner core keep it solid.
26. Trace. 5. Trace. The percentages are percent by mass of the indicated elements. The composition of the human body is seen to be distinctly different from the abundance of the elements in the Earth's crust. The elements upon which life is based are often summarized by the combination CHONPS, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur. All others. 1.5. Given the abundance of oxygen and silicon in the crust, it should not be surprising that the most abundant minerals in the earth's crust are the silicates. Although the Earth's material must have had the same composition as the Sun originally, the present composition of the Sun is quite different.
Hydrogen (chemical symbol H), named after the Greek word for water-forming, is the most abundant element in the Universe. In fact more than nine-tenths of all atoms are hydrogen atoms. It is the stuff of stars, of cold empty space and of the Earth. Hydrogen is found everywhere and in most compounds. Hydrogen in water. Water is the most common chemical compound on the surface of the Earth, covering over two-thirds of the Earth's surface. People are also about two-thirds water. Water is a compound of hydrogen and oxygen.
The table shows the abundance of elements in Earth's crust. Numbers show percentage or parts per million (ppm) in mass; 10,000 ppm = 1%. Note that numbers are estimates, and they will vary depending on source and method of estimation. Order of magnitude of data can roughly be relied upon. The rarest elements in the crust (shown in yellow) are not the heaviest, but are rather the siderophile (iron-loving) elements in the Goldschmidt classification of elements. These have been depleted by being relocated deeper into the Earth's core. Their abundance in meteoroids is higher