It functions as an exocrine organ by producing digestive enzymes, and as an endocrine organ by producing hormones. … The pancreas secretes digestive enzymes such as proteolytic enzymes which are responsible for the digestion of proteins, lipases which digest fat and amylases which digest dietary carbohydrates. It produces digestive enzymes. the pancreas of a frog release enzymes into the small intestine to help break down food complex substances into simple substances.    it … creates digestive enzymes that go into the small intestine The frogs pancreas is a large gland that secrets digestive juices.
The normal function of the pancreas is discussed here for non-doctors. The pancreas is a digestive gland, similar to the salivary gland in the mouth. If you were to take a bite of a sour lemon, the salivary gland would squirt juice into the mouth to balance the acid in lemon juice. 
The pancreas is an organ located in the abdomen. It plays an essential role in converting the food we eat into fuel for the body's cells. The pancreas has two main functions: an exocrine function that helps in digestion and an endocrine function that regulates blood sugar. Exocrine Function: The pancreas contains exocrine glands that produce enzymes important to digestion. These enzymes include trypsin and chymotrypsin to digest proteins; amylase for the digestion of carbohydrates; and lipase to break down fats.
The pancreas is a glandular organ in the upper abdomen, but really it serves as two glands in one: a digestive exocrine gland and a hormone-producing endocrine gland. Functioning as an exocrine gland, the pancreas excretes enzymes to break down the proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids in food. 
The pancreas has an endocrine function because it releases juices directly into the bloodstream, and it has an exocrine function because it releases juices into ducts. Enzymes, or digestive juices, produced by the pancreas are secreted into the small intestine to further break down food after it has left the stomach. The gland also produces the hormone insulin and secretes it into the bloodstream in order to regulate the body's glucose or sugar level. The endocrine portion of the pancreas, or islets of Langerhans, is composed of several cells that secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream. Insulin is a hormone secreted by pancreatic beta cells in response to a rise in blood sugar.
The pancreas' function is to produce and secrete digestive enzymes. The pancreas' function is the same in most vertebrates-to produce and deliver digestive enzymes to the body. The pancreas in frogs produces enzymes that are released into the small intestine to help with digestion. It also contains clusters of cells called islets which produce hormones such as insulin and glucagon. It produces digestive enzymes. the pancreas of a frog release enzymes into the small intestine to help break down food complex substances into simple substances.    it … creates digestive enzymes that go into the small intestine The frogs pancreas is a large gland that secrets digestive juices.
Function of the Pancreas. The pancreas is an important component of the digestive system. It manufactures and secretes digestive enzymes such as amylase, which digests starch. It also produces lipase, which breaks down fats, and trypsin, a protein processor. The pancreas creates and secretes insulin, glucagon and other hormone
The endocrine component of the pancreas consists of islet cells (islets of Langerhans) that create and release important hormones directly into the bloodstream. Two of the main pancreatic hormones are insulin, which acts to lower blood sugar, and glucagon, which acts to raise blood sugar. Exocrine Function: The pancreas contains exocrine glands that produce enzymes important to digestion. These enzymes include trypsin and chymotrypsin to digest proteins; amylase for the digestion of carbohydrates; and lipase to break down fats.
The pancreas is also a digestive organ, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that assist digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids in the chyme. The pancreas also functions as an exocrine gland that assists the digestive system. It secretes pancreatic fluid that contains digestive enzymes that pass to the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins and lipids (fats)
The pancreas is a vital organ that is part of the human digestive and endocrine systems. The pancreas makes enzymes and hormones such as insulin and glucagon for the body. Enzymes are substances that speed up reactions in the body. The pancreas is an important component of the digestive system. It manufactures and secretes digestive enzymes such as amylase, which digests starch. It also produces lipase, which breaks down fats, and trypsin, a protein processor.