The Full Moon is at located at 14 degrees of Libra and the Sun at 14 degrees of Aries. Jupiter in Leo, who will move direct in his orbit on April 8, 2015 forms harmonious and opportunity aspects to the Sun and Moon. In this composition, we have Uranus at 16 degrees of Aries within 2 degrees of the Sun and forming a Full Moon opposition aspect to the Moon. At the culmination of this Lunar Cycle, the Full Moon is at 6 degrees of Pisces and the Sun at 6 degrees of Virgo. Neptune is at 8 degrees of Pisces alongside the Moon and Jupiter is at 3 degrees of Virgo, in conjunction with the Sun.
The fiery Full Moon in Leo on January 26 is an invitation to celebrate life to the fullest! The heart-centered Leo Full Moon's opposition to the cool-but-friendly Aquarius Sun is usually a great time to party. However, serious Saturn does cast a bit of a shadow on the occasion with stressful squares to both bodies. Some caution is recommended, especially when it comes to emotional and financial costs. 
Moon in ♌ Leo. Moon in Leo is a time, when lunar sky path is crossing the fifth sector of the zodiac-between ∠120°-150° , where is located the constellation of Leo. Waxing Moon visits Leo zodiac sign only in the period from February to August and Waning Moon transits Leo only from August to February. Moon in Fixed sign Leo. The Moon is in Fixed zodiac sign Leo. When the Moon transits Fixed Modality sign, emotions are ruled by the sense of security and stability.
Rick Levine on the topics of moon, leo, horoscopes, full moon. Every Full Moon represents the flowering of consciousness, a time when our dreams flow over into the real world. The Leo Full Moon on February 3, 2015 at 6:08 pm EST symbolizes the culmination of heart-centered emotions. Its opposition to Mercury and the Sun in community-minded Aquarius emphasizes the juxtaposition between personal and humanitarian love. 
Moon in Fire sign Leo. The Moon is in Fire zodiac sign Leo. When the Moon transits Fire Element sign, emotions search expression in a creative way. Best way for a person to deal with his different mental states is alone, by himself. Moon in Fixed sign Leo. The Moon is in Fixed zodiac sign Leo. When the Moon transits Fixed Modality sign, emotions are ruled by the sense of security and stability.
For the most current writing on the Leo Full Moon, see 2015 Leo Full Moon-Sharing Your Light with the World-February 3, 2015. The Leo-Aquarius axis is therefore fully lit up this full Moon. Leo is at home in the particular, and seeks to express what is unique to the self. It's a regal sign with an instinct for encouaging the dignity in others. Aquarius tunes into the many, and often seeks to provoke change that will benefit all
This year's Leo full moon is especially potent because it's conjunct (connected to) expansive, worldly Jupiter (also in Leo) and forming a supportive trine (120-degree angle) to radical change-maker Uranus (in fellow fire-sign Aries). This could create some sweeping (and likely positive!) shifts in our lives. 
(c) Alexei Norikov. For the most current writing on the Leo Full Moon, see 2015 Leo Full Moon-Sharing Your Light with the World-February 3, 2015. This Tuesday's full Moon (Exact at 8:35 am EST) is in Leo, the sign of the artist, player and lover. The Leo-Aquarius axis is therefore fully lit up this full Moon. Leo is at home in the particular, and seeks to express what is unique to the self. It's a regal sign with an instinct for encouaging the dignity in others. Aquarius tunes into the many, and often seeks to provoke change that will benefit all
Full Moon in Leo. Friday 18th February, 2011 is a Full Moon at 7.37pm (EST, Melbourne, Australia) illuminating all projects and ideas that were started on the New Moon two weeks ago. Leo as a Full Moon signifies creativity, fun, warm-heartedness and loyalty.