This price is usually for commercial floors and includes staining or scoring the floors, according to John Buteyn of Colorado Hardscapes. $6-$12/ sq ft. The typical cost for polished concrete in a residential floor because it is more difficult to get a consistent look using a smaller machine, according to Buteyn. Costs for polished concrete will range depending upon the area of the country and the contractor. Many offer different price points for various levels and designs for polished concrete.
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor.
Keep in mind that the polished concrete pricing for warehouses are going to be different than the polished concrete pricing for residential homes. By answering a few simple questions, you can get the price of polished concrete per square foot for just about any type of polished concrete flooring application.
Polished concrete costs about $200 a cubic meter for the concrete itself, plus another $80+ for laying, (which you need as well for the tiles!) plus between $40-$90 sqm for polishing. So it really depends on what type of tile you want, and if you compare it directly to the finish of polished concrete. 
As the chart below shows, the average per-square-foot costs of basic stained or polished concrete floors are competitive with what you would expect to pay to install linoleum, vinyl flooring, ceramic tile and high-quality carpeting. 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor.
$4.40. $5.25. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Polish Concrete! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Polishing project. For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Polish Concrete ranges between $4.40 - $5.25 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Other things like decorative scoring and staining will also increase the cost of concrete. polishing. Basic cost for a polished concrete floor up to a 800 grit: $3.00 per square foot. Cost for polished concrete floors requiring decorative scoring and/or staining: Up to $8.00 per square foot. For large commercial floors, may include staining and decorative scoring: From $3.00 - $7.00 per square foot. For polishing residential concrete floors: Cost $5.00 - $12.00 per square foot.
Greg Demmert, with Demmert & Assoc. in Los Angeles, installs polished concrete along the West Coast in both residential and commercial locations. For a fairly smooth floor, that requires only a few levels of grinding, Demmert says $3 sq. ft. is the basic cost for a polished concrete floor. 
Basic cost for a polished concrete floor that requires only a few levels of grinding, according to Greg Demmert of Demmert & Assoc. in Los Angeles. $3-$8/ sq ft. For concrete floors requiring more in-depth grinding or including coloring with stains and dyes, according to Demmert. In the Denver area. Costs for polished concrete will range depending upon the area of the country and the contractor. Many offer different price points for various levels and designs for polished concrete.
Polished Concrete Cost. Polished concrete pricing is basically dependent upon how many levels of grinding will be required to get the floor to a suitably smooth surface. The cost for polished concrete can go up from there depending upon any decorative effects that are applied such as staining or scoring, etc. Costs for polished concrete will range depending upon the area of the country and the contractor. Many offer different price points for various levels and designs for polished concrete.