Political interventionism can include methods such as sanctions on a foreign economy or international trade with similar results to protectionism, or other international sanctions through international cooperation decisions guarding international law or global justice. There is criticism of promotion of culture of fear and the appeal to fear like the tactic of creating fear, uncertainty and doubt such as the expressions the terrorists have won or for the children (politics) in an appeal to emotion.
Full Definition of INTERVENTIONISM. : the theory or practice of intervening; specifically: governmental interference in economic affairs at home or in political affairs of another country. — in·ter·ven·tion·ist \-ˈvench-nist, -ˈven(t)-shə-nist\ noun or adjective. See interventionism defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT.
Interventionism. The theory of interventionism examines the nature and justifications of interfering with another polity (that is, political organization) or with choices made by individuals. International interventionism can incorporate direct activities such as the use or threat of war, as well as indirect activities such as assassination, subversion, and economic embargoes of all descriptions (complete or partial blockades, transport restrictions, etc.).
interventionism. the doctrine supporting intervention, especially in international affairs and the politics of other countries. — interventionist, n., adj. 
Such a project, should, of course, also deal with the intellectual foundations of interventionism, that is, the ideas and arguments, the doctrines and theories, that underlie it in each case, and with its intellectual sources in the writings of such figures as Marx and Keynes and Robinson and Chamberlin. This is what the government does every time it forbids any voluntary, contractual relationship, such as the offer and acceptance of a price or wage, or products or working conditions, that the parties judge to be in their respective self-interest to offer and accept.
Breaking diplomatic relations also does not imply the use of force and hence is not a form of interventionism. This is an essentially peaceful attempt to alter another government's actions in effect by removing acknowledgement of its international political status. International interventionism can incorporate direct activities such as the use or threat of war, as well as indirect activities such as assassination, subversion, and economic embargoes of all descriptions (complete or partial blockades, transport restrictions, etc.).
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. interventionism wanted to intervene and help foreign countries unlike the isolationism wanted to avoid and solve the conflicts at home.
Interventionism. Interventionism is a term for a policy of non-defensive activity undertaken by a nation-state, or other geo-political jurisdiction of a lesser or greater nature, to manipulate an economy or society. The most common applications of the term are for economic interventionism, and foreign i
The most common applications of the term are for economic interventionism (a state's intervention in its own economy), and foreign interventionism (a state's intervention in the affairs of another nation as part of its foreign policy). There is criticism of promotion of culture of fear and the appeal to fear like the tactic of creating fear, uncertainty and doubt such as the expressions the terrorists have won or for the children (politics) in an appeal to emotion.
Interventionism is a term for a policy of non-defensive (proactive) activity undertaken by a nation-state, or other geo-political jurisdiction of a lesser or greater nature, to manipulate an economy or society. There is criticism of promotion of culture of fear and the appeal to fear like the tactic of creating fear, uncertainty and doubt such as the expressions the terrorists have won or for the children (politics) in an appeal to emotion.