RESULTS Central corneal thickness was significantly higher (p ⩽0.001) in patients with ocular hypertension than in normal individuals or in subjects with either normal tension glaucoma, primary open angle glaucoma, or pseudoexfoliation glaucoma, there being no significant differences between the latter four groups.
A pachymetry test is a simple, quick, painless test to measure the thickness of your cornea. With this measurement, your doctor can better understand your IOP reading, and develop a treatment plan that is right for your condition. The procedure takes only about a minute to measure both eyes.
The thickness of the cornea normally varies between people with an average of about 550 microns (that’s about 1/2 millimeter) in Caucasians. It is less in Blacks (520 microns) and even less in Asians.
Answer: Normal corneal thickness is about 540 microns (half of a millimeter). Thickness is checked with a handheld ultrasound device called a pachymeter. We check corneal thickness mainly for two reasons: 1. People with thin corneas (500 or less) are at a higher risk for having glaucoma.
Corneal pachymetry measures the thickness of the cornea. Alternative Names: Corneal Thickness. What to Expect. 1  Topical anesthetic (numbing) eye drops are administered. 2  An ultrasonic probe is held against the cornea and several readings are taken.
For example, if your central corneal thickness is 550 microns, the flap thickness is estimated to be 160 microns, and the ablation depth for your refraction is 60 microns, the residual stromal bed thickness would be 550 – (160 + 60) = 330 microns.
Use this tool to estimate if myopic patients have enough corneal thickness to proceed with laser vision correction. When corneal thickness is unknown, this calculator defaults to the average corneal thickness of 540 microns.
While the cornea thickness is too thin for laisk, you may be a candidate for prk if your preoperative testing says your cornea is of regular shape and strong. The amount of correction needed may also play a role.