Managers charge fees for collecting rent and overseeing the property in general. Fees vary depending on whether you have one rental, several single family rentals, an apartment complex or a commercial building. Most management companies charge a percentage of gross rents collected; typically between 3 and 15 percent. 
For continued management we charge a percentage of the rent collected. That percentage will vary with the type of property and the rent amount. It will range from 5% to 8%. For most single family properties the percentage is usually 6%. Most companies charge a fee to rent the property. In some instances it is a flat fee. It is usually 1/2 of the 1st month’s rent. The same as our fee. If it is lower it is most likely that they have other fees or charge a higher monthly percentage.
Typical Fee Agreement. As a baseline, expect to pay a typical residential property management firm between 8 – 12% of the monthly rental value of the property, plus expenses. Some companies may charge, say, $100 per month flat rate. This may or may not be a good deal for you, but most property managers charge the small percent of the monthly rental payment. 1 Some management only charge when there is a tenant on the property. 2  If the property is vacant, they may charge a reduced fee, or no fee at all. —-. 3  New Tenant Placement. 4  Some managers may charge for a new tenant placement fee or bonus structure for getting a tenant into a lease.
Recurring Management Fees To cover the cost of property management services we collect a percentage of the monthly rent. Rentals under $600 per month usually have a minimum charge of $50. Lease Signing Fees When a tenant is placed in the property, we charge an initial leasing fee of up to one full month's rent.
How much is the property management fee? Property management fees vary from company to company and from property to property. There is no maximum or minimum property management fee but a high rate for the Outer Banks would be 25% and a low rate would be 10%. 
Some charge the monthly management fee when a unit is vacant, while others do not. In the D.C. metro region, our company charges 75 percent of one month's rent for full-service leasing and 7.5 percent of the monthly rent received from tenants for property management services. We don't add fees, charge markups, or charge a fee when a unit is vacant. Write a review. Our company charge between 8-10% fee off the monthly rent when there is a tenant in the property, if the home is vacant we don't charge first month fee, If we managing a property that has a existing tenant, we do not charge the first month of rent. Only the typical management fee.
Report Abuse. Usually 10% of all rents. My property management company does not charge an upfront fee, but I as a landlord pay for all advertising costs when they place ads to rent my houses. Some companies will take a full or half months rent upon locating a tenant as well
It is common for companies to charge both a leasing fee, which is typically a percentage of the first month's rent (75 to 100 percent is typical), and a monthly management fee (often 7 to 10 percent a month). Write a review. Our company charge between 8-10% fee off the monthly rent when there is a tenant in the property, if the home is vacant we don't charge first month fee, If we managing a property that has a existing tenant, we do not charge the first month of rent. Only the typical management fee.
1 Percentage of monthly rent: If you choose to employ a property management company on a full-service basis, you'll most likely be charged a percentage of the monthly rent on your property. 2  This can range anywhere from 5-15%, with 8-10% being common. 3  Under this fee structure, if your unit isn't rented, you don't pay. 