Lexi is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lex-ee. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 242 in baby name popularity for girls with 1320 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
[ 2 syll. le-xy, lex-y ] The baby boy name Lexy is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as L EH KS-iy- †. The origin of Lexy is Old Greek. Lexy is a variant of the name Alexis (English, Greek, French, and German). Lexy is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Among the group of boy names directly linked to Lexy, Alexis was the most regularly used in 2012
Lexie /lex-ie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LEK-see. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Lexie is man's defender. Short form of Alexis and Alexandra. Kreatif forms: Lauxie, Laxie, Lenxie. 
Lexy is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lex-ee. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2322 in baby name popularity for girls with 79 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Just for fun, see the name Lexy in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Lexy in Nautical Flags page.
English Meaning: The name Lexie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lexie is: defender of mankind. American Meaning: The name Lexie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lexie is: defender of mankind. SoulUrge Number: 1. 
Meaning of Lexy. Greek name. In Greek, the name Lexy means-defender of mankind variant of alexander.The name Lexy originated as an Greek name. The name Lexy is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-defender of mankind variant of alexander.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Lexy in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Lexy in Nautical Flags page.
Lexy /lexy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Lexy's root is Greek, and the name Lexy means man's defender. Lexy is a variant transcription of Alexandra (Greek): Latinate feminine variant of Alexander. Lexy is also a variation of Alexis (Greek): originally a boy's name. Kreatif forms: Laxy, Leoxy, Lixy. 
99% of the time, a sexy girl, with an exotic look and an ass to die for. I have a lexy myself, and I encourage all other guys to get theirselves a lexy ;-). 
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Just for fun, see the name Lexy in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Lexy in Nautical Flags page.