Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which your optic nerve (the nerve that carries visual information from your eye to your brain) becomes inflamed. Inflammation causes vision loss—although usually in only one eye. As you recover and the inflammation goes away, your vision may return. The three most common symptoms of optic neuritis are: 1  vision loss in one eye—can vary from mild to severe and progresses for seven to 10 days. 2  periocular pain (pain around the eye, often worsened by eye movements). 3  dyschromatopsia (disorder of color vision).
Optic nerve. Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, the bundle of nerve fibers that transmits visual information from your eye to your brain. Pain and temporary vision loss are common symptoms of optic neuritis. Optic neuritis is highly associated with multiple sclerosis, a disease that causes inflammation and damage to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. In some people, signs and symptoms of optic neuritis may be the first indication of multiple sclerosis. 
Optic neuritis is an inflammation that affects the myelin lining of the optic nerve, which transmits visual stimuli to the brain. The optic nerve is actually a nerve tract of axons that originate in the ganglion cells of the retina. Nerve tracts are the information pathways in the brain. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases.
Optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve, caused by damage to and loss of the protective sheath (myelin) surrounding this nerve that is so vital for good vision. Demyelinating optic neuritis is another term for this eye condition. Vision symptoms from optic neuritis can include blurring and blind spots. 
1 Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, often affecting young adults in one eye. 2  Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 3  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases.
1 The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 2  The diagnosis is made on the basis of the patient history and an examination by an ophthalmologist. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2 
Optic neuritis usually affects one eye. Symptoms might include: 1  Pain. 2  Most people who develop optic neuritis experience eye pain that's worsened by eye movement. 3  Sometimes the pain feels like a dull ache behind the eye. 4  Vision loss. 5  Most people experience at least some temporary reduction in vision, but the extent of vision loss varies
Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, a bundle of nerve fibers that carry images from your retina to your brain. Each fiber carries part of the visual information to the brain. In optic neuritis, some or all of the nerve fibers become inflamed and do not function properly, and vision becomes blurred. 
Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which the nerve to the eye (the optic nerve) becomes inflamed or irritated. Inflammation refers to a process in which white blood cells and chemical messengers go to an area of the body to stimulate healing or to attack viruses or foreign material. 
1 Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 2  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 3  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2