For your baby's sake, please add the Tdap vaccine to your list. The CDC recommends the Tdap vaccine — which offers protection from whooping cough (pertussis), tetanus and diphtheria — for all pregnant women, regardless of when you had your last Tdap or tetanus-diphtheria (Td) vaccine. Ideally, the vaccine should be given between 27 and 36 weeks of pregnancy. 
Tdap is a booster vaccine against tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough). Protecting mothers and babies against pertussis is a high priority because pertussis has become increasingly common in Minnesota over the last few years and it can be life-threatening or even fatal to infants. 
Tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis are very serious diseases. Tdap vaccine can protect us from these diseases. And, Tdap vaccine given to pregnant women can protect newborn babies against pertussis.. TETANUS (Lockjaw) is rare in the United States today. 
Pregnant women need to get a Tdap shot. [Picture of a pregnant woman talking to a mother holding a baby]. Pregnant woman: I got my whooping cough vaccine and will encourage everyone caring for my baby to get a shot, too! Mom: This vaccine helps protect you from whooping cough and passes some protection to your baby. 
Tdap (Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis) Vaccine. Tdap vaccine protects against tetanus, diphtheria, and whooping cough (pertussis) . Teens and adults should get Tdap vaccine in order to: 1  Help protect themselves against whooping cough and prevent the spread of disease to others. 2  Help protect babies from whooping cough. 1 Pregnant women need to get Tdap vaccine at each pregnancy, even if they've been vaccinated before. 2  This gives moms more time to develop immunity to protect their baby against whooping cough. 3  Adults aged 19 years of age and older, especially anyone in close contact with babies less than 12 months of age.
The Tdap vaccine can prevent adults from getting pertussis and giving it to babies. If you have been exposed to someone with pertussis, your doctor may give you antibiotics to prevent you from getting sick, especially if you are pregnant or in contact with babies. Get the Tdap vaccine. Women should get a Tdap vaccination during every pregnancy to protect their infant from whooping cough,even if they have had Tdap vaccine before. We collected some of the most common questions women ask, along with answers backed by the latest medical research.
The Tdap vaccine offers protection from three serious diseases: tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough). It's the first booster designed to protect adults and adolescents from whooping cough, a very contagious disease that they're at risk for themselves and can pass on to babies. 
Tdap vaccine. Tdap vaccine can protect adolescents and adults from tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis. One dose of Tdap is routinely given at age 11 or 12. People who did not get Tdap at that age should get it as soon as possible. Tdap vaccine can protect us from these diseases. And, Tdap vaccine given to pregnant women can protect newborn babies against pertussis. TETANUS (Lockjaw) is rare in the United States today.
Pregnant women should get a dose of Tdap during every pregnancy, to protect the newborn from pertussis. Infants are most at risk for severe, life-threatening complications from pertussis. Another vaccine, called Td, protects against tetanus and diphtheria, but not pertussis. Tdap vaccine can protect us from these diseases. And, Tdap vaccine given to pregnant women can protect newborn babies against pertussis. TETANUS (Lockjaw) is rare in the United States today.