The carbohydrates in fruits, grains, and vegetables are converted by the body into a substance called glycogen and used for energy. Some of this glycogen is stored in the liver. Some is sent to the muscles and stored as muscle glycogen, if those stores have been reduced through exercise or fasting, typically at night while sleeping (and thus a breakfast should be rich in carbohydrates to restore muscle glycogen for an energetic start to the day).
When carbohydrates are scarce, the body runs mainly on fats. If energy needs exceed those provided by fats in the diet, the body must liquidate some of its fat tissue for energy. While these fats are a welcome source of energy for most of the body, a few types of cells, such as brain cells, have special needs.
Contrary to popular diets, carbohydrates (carbs) are not the enemy. The cells of your body use circulating glucose to make energy at rest and during exercise. Not only do your cells need carbohydrates but your brain is entirely dependent on carbs for energy. Carbs help maintain blood glucose during exercise and restore muscle glycogen during rest and recovery from exercise.
The function of carbohydrates is to give energy to all the cells in our body and they fuel the basal. metabolic rate (the rate at which we use energy at rest) and activity levels. Carbohydrates are split into four groups each have their own role in the body.
Carbohydrates break down into glucose molecules. When used as energy, carbohydrates fuel become fuel for your muscles and brain. If your body does not have any use for the glucose, it is converted into glycogen and stored it in the liver and muscles as an energy reserve. Your body can store about a half a day's supply of glycogen.
Carbohydrates are the body's main fuel source. The brain and nervous system require a constant supply of glucose from carbohydrates in order to function optimally. Muscles also use and store glucose to provide the main fuel during physical activity.
If your diet provides more carbohydrates than you need to produce this amount of stored calories in the form of glucose and glycogen in your cells, blood, muscles, and liver, the excess will be converted to fat. And that’s how your pasta ends up on your hips.