A statutory declaration is a written statement that allows a person to declare something to be true. When you make a statutory declaration, you are declaring that the statements in it are true. If you intentionally make a false statement in a declaration, you can be charged with an offence. A Commonwealth statutory declaration must be signed in the presence of someone who is on the list of authorised witnesses. If you are authorised to witness Commonwealth statutory declarations, you may be able to witness state or territory declarations as well, if the local law states that:
Statutory declarations are commonly used to allow a person to declare something to be true for the purposes of satisfying some legal requirement or regulation when no other evidence is available. They are thus similar to affidavits (which are made on oath). I A.B. do solemnly and sincerely declare, that and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in the year of the reign of his present Majesty, intituled “An Act” (here insert the title of this Act).
Under the Statutory Declarations Act 1835, the defendant’s declaration can be made before anyone who is authorised by law to hear it (for example, a solicitor), or before any Justice of the Peace. I A.B. do solemnly and sincerely declare, that and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in the year of the reign of his present Majesty, intituled “An Act” (here insert the title of this Act).
And I / We make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act 1936. Declared at. in the State of South Australia, this day of. 20 ......................................................... [address]. And I / We make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act 1936. Declared at. in the State of South Australia, this day of. 20 ......................................................... Signature of person making this declaration.
Australian Statutory Declarations-Commonwealth and State. A statutory declaration or stat dec is a written statement declared to be true in the presence of an authorised witness. In Australia a Stat Dec can be made under State Law or Commonwealth Law depending upon the circumstances requiring the document. The legislation sets out the prescribed form that the statutory declaration must be in, which includes specific wording and acknowledgements. The legislation also specifies certain persons who are authorised to witness a statutory declaration.
The penalty for making a false statement in a statutory declaration is a maximum of four years imprisonment. If you have concerns about a false statutory declaration or a false witness, contact the Australian Federal Police. 1  Commonwealth statutory declarations. 2  State and territory statutory declarations. A Commonwealth statutory declaration must be signed in the presence of someone who is on the list of authorised witnesses. If you are authorised to witness Commonwealth statutory declarations, you may be able to witness state or territory declarations as well, if the local law states that:
Statutory declarations. When you make a statutory declaration, you are declaring that the statements in it are true. If you intentionally make a false statement in a declaration, you can be charged with an offence. To complete a statutory declaration you will need to have someone on the list of authorised witnesses watch you sign the completed form. They will also need to sign it.
A statutory declaration is a legal document defined under the law of certain Commonwealth nations. It is similar to a statement made under oath, however, it is not sworn. I A.B. do solemnly and sincerely declare, that and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in the year of the reign of his present Majesty, intituled “An Act” (here insert the title of this Act).