1 Edema is a swelling, usually of the legs, due to the accumulation of excessive fluid in the tissues. 2  The edema that occurs in diseases of the heart, liver, and kidneys is mainly caused by salt retention, which holds the excess fluid in the body. 1 The edema that occurs in diseases of the heart, liver, and kidneys is mainly caused by salt retention, which holds the excess fluid in the body. 2  In certain liver and kidney diseases, low levels of albumin in the blood can contribute to fluid retention.
Edema is the accumulation of fluid in bodily tissues or a body cavity. The word is derived from the Middle English word ydema, which comes from the Greek word for swelling.. In people who suffer from this condition, the swelling is usually clearly visible. Keeping the legs elevated may help treat leg edema. Pulmonary edema is usually caused by heart failure. Cutting back on salt may help relieve edema. Compression stockings may help prevent fluid from collecting in the lower extremities. Pulmonary edema refers to a medical condition characterized by the build up of fluid around the lungs
Edema is observable swelling from fluid accumulation in body tissues. Edema most commonly occurs in the feet and legs, where it is referred to as peripheral edema. The swelling is the result of the accumulation of excess fluid under the skin in the spaces within the tissues. All tissues of the body are made up of cells and connective tissues that hold the cells together. 1 The edema that occurs in diseases of the heart, liver, and kidneys is mainly caused by salt retention, which holds the excess fluid in the body. 2  In certain liver and kidney diseases, low levels of albumin in the blood can contribute to fluid retention.
Definition. Edema is swelling caused by excess fluid trapped in your body's tissues. Although edema can affect any part of your body, it's most commonly noticed in the hands, arms, feet, ankles and legs
Edema is swelling caused by fluid retention-excess fluid is trapped in the body's tissues. In the UK/Ireland/Australasia and some other countries, the word is spelled oedema. Swelling caused by edema commonly occurs in the hands, arms, ankles, legs and feet. It is usually linked to the venous or lymphatic systems. 
Edema is the medical term for swelling. It is a general response of the body to injury or inflammation. Edema can be isolated to a small area or affect the entire body. Medications, infections, pregnancy, and many medical problems can cause edema. Edema is a normal response of the body to inflammation or injury. For example, a twisted ankle, a bee sting, or a skin infection will all result in edema in the involved area. In some cases, such as in an infection, this may be beneficial.
Edema occurs when excess fluid collects in the tissues of your body, resulting in swelling of the feet, fingers, hands, legs and other parts of the body. Symptoms of edema include swelling in the hands, feet and legs, although it can occur anywhere in the body. The skin may appear stretched, shiny, or dimpled, especially after being pressed. The extent and severity of edema depend upon the underlying cause and the individual’s underlying medical condition.
Edema Overview. Edema (or Oedema) is the abnormal accumulation of fluid in certain tissues within the body. The accumulation of fluid may be under the skin-usually in dependent areas such as the legs (peripheral edema, or ankle edema), or it may accumulate in the lungs (pulmonary edema). 