Tweet. Food digestion varies depending upon the type of food. I will break down the process into its steps and provide a timeline for each step. First we see the food. This stimulates our brain to ready our stomach to receive food, by increasing gastric secretions. Then, we eat the food. Fiber that has not been digested adds bulk to the waste products to facilitate elimination. In summary, at the short end, digestion takes about 75 hours, but it can take up to 80 hours from the time it enters the mouth to the time it leaves the body in the form of stool.
When it comes to our digestive system, it can take hours or even longer for food to pass through. That's what it takes for the body to get the nutrients and energy it needs from what you ingest. It usually takes from 24 to 72 hours for healthy people to completely digest food and eliminate waste products. The first stop for food is the esophagus, which moves food from the back of the throat to the stomach. About six to eight hours after eating, food passes through the stomach and small intestine. The actual amount of time that this process takes depends on the food you're eating. Meat can take two days to fully digest, while vegetables and fruits take a day or less. Drinking water and high-fiber foods helps the digestive system work more efficiently.
The average transit time through just the large intestine (colon) was 40 hours, with significant difference between men and women: 33 hours for men, 47 hours for women. Two British doctors studied digestion time in children. The mean time of transit from mouth to anus for the group was 33 hours (meaning half the children had digestion times slower than this and half had digestion times greater than this).
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. The mean time of transit from mouth to anus for the group was 33 hours (meaning half the children had digestion times slower than this and half had digestion times greater than this).
However for clear understanding, digestion time will solely depend on the type of food consumed by an individual. For example fruit and veggies take 30 minutes to digest, liquids take about 20 minutes, carbohydrates take 3 hours and meat takes 24 hours. This is why it is advisable to drink lots of water, eat lots of fruit and veg, but limit your consumption of meat. Food digestion rates also depend on the gut transit. For food to digest it has to go through a number of different processes. In this article I will discuss a little bit about them. Food digestion takes 12-48 hours on average.
Change text size for the story. Print. Report an error. Digestion time varies depending on the individual. For most healthy adults, it's usually between 24 and 72 hours. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion and absorption of water. Elimination of undigested food residue through the large intestine usually begins after a total of 24 hours. 
At this point, the food has spent between 30 minutes and 2 hours in the stomach and between 2 and 6 hours in the small intestine and 90% of the nutrients have been extracted. Fiber that has not been digested adds bulk to the waste products to facilitate elimination. In summary, at the short end, digestion takes about 75 hours, but it can take up to 80 hours from the time it enters the mouth to the time it leaves the body in the form of stool.
Your body can digest most food in less time it takes hotshot celebrities to get engaged: about 4-12 hours. Fruits are the fastest travelers on the intestinal interstate, with meats driving like an oversized load in the right lane (they can take 2-3 days to be excreted or even longer as it rots inside your intestine). It depends on what you're eating, Dr. Oz, Vice-Chair and Professor of Surgery at Columbia University, says. A steak dinner can take you two, maybe three days to get out of your intestine. What that means is the way you digest it is basically to rot it in your intestines.