Instead, the weighted average method of costing inventory assigns an average cost to each piece of inventory when it is sold. When unit of inventory is sold, the weighted average method of costing inventory takes the average cost of all inventories currently available. This average price is then assigned to the item sold. Since inventory prices fluctuate, the weighted average cost will also change. Think about it this way.
Weighted Average Method Overview. The weighted average method is used to assign the average cost of production to a product. Weighted average costing is commonly used in situations where: 1  Inventory items are so intermingled that it is impossible to assign a specific cost to an individual unit. When using the weighted average method, divide the cost of goods available for sale by the number of units available for sale, which yields the weighted-average cost per unit. In this calculation, the cost of goods available for sale is the sum of beginning inventory and net purchases
The weighted average method is an inventory costing method that assigns average costs to each piece of inventory when it is sold during the year. Retailers and other businesses that keep and sell inventory must keep track of the cost of inventory on hand as well as the cost of inventory that was sold. When unit of inventory is sold, the weighted average method of costing inventory takes the average cost of all inventories currently available. This average price is then assigned to the item sold. Since inventory prices fluctuate, the weighted average cost will also change. Think about it this way.
Cost of goods sold: 2,500 units × $10.5118 = $26,280 Cost of ending inventory: 900 units × $10.5118 = $9,460. When average costing method is used in a perpetual inventory system, an average unit cost figure is computed each time a purchase is made. Average costing method in periodic inventory system: When average costing method is used in a periodic inventory system, the cost of goods sold and the cost of ending inventory is computed using weighted average unit cost. Weighted average unit cost is computed using the following formula :
The ending inventory valuation is $45,112 (175 units × $257.78 weighted average cost), while the cost of goods sold valuation is $70,890 (275 units × $257.78 weighted average cost). The sum of these two amounts (less a rounding error) equals the $116,000 total actual cost of all purchases and beginning inventory. When using the weighted average method, divide the cost of goods available for sale by the number of units available for sale, which yields the weighted-average cost per unit. In this calculation, the cost of goods available for sale is the sum of beginning inventory and net purchases
By Chizoba Morah AAA |. A: The main difference between weighted average cost accounting, LIFO, and FIFO methods of accounting is the difference in which each method calculates inventory and cost of goods sold. The weighted average cost method uses the average of the costs of the goods to assign costs. In other words, weighted average uses the formula: Total cost of items in inventory available for sale divided by total number of units available for sale. In contrast, FIFO (first in, first out) accounting means that the costs assigned to goods are the costs for the first goods bought.
In our example above (assuming the weighted average cost method was allowed for valuing the lollypops), the value of our closing inventories would be calculated as follows: Using the weighted average cost method, our closing inventory amounts to $1,059. This equates to a cost of $1.06 per lollypop ($1,059/1,000 lollypops). Oddly enough, the LIFO method is the preferred inventory valuation method in the United States but is disallowed in non-US countries. The FIFO method and the weighted average cost method are used in non-US countries.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Weighted average costing is one among many different types of inventory cost accounting methods that companies use. Other common methods include the more common last-in, first-out, or LIFO method, and the first-in, first-out, or FIFO method. 