A number of Huguenot surnames did not survive in South Africa; these include surnames such as Amiel, Aubanelle, Belus, De P ronne, De Savoye, Dumont, Mouy, Potier, Pr vost, Verdeau, etc. The list below gives well known Huguenot surnames which exist to this day, often with a spelling different to that of the original. Note: In some cases more than one person with the same surname arrived at the Cape of Good Hope, in addition to the progenitor mentioned above. Notable examples are the two brothers and cousin De Villiers (Pierre, Abraham and Jacob), the two brothers Du Toit (Francois and Guillaume), etc.
Please join us in collaborating on NORTJE family trees. We need the help of good genealogists to grow a completely free shared family tree to connect us all. N Genealogy. A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z. 
Johannes Jan Nortje (born 11 April 1975) is a South African professional kickboxer, mixed martial artist, and undefeated pro boxer who has fought for Strikeforce, DREAM, K-1, Inoki Genome Federation, PRIDE Fighting Championship and New Japan Pro Wrestling. 
1 Historical Newspaper Collection: Search for NORTJE Now. 2  Ancestry.com offers digitized Historical Newspapers. 3  The Historical Newspaper collection includes selections from the New York Times (1851-1906) as well as thousands of local and state newspaper pages. 1 Research NORTJE genealogy. 2  Search over 3,000 individual databases instantly. 3  Featured databases include: 1930 Census-Fully Indexed, SSDI, and many more. 4  1790 - 1930 Census
Using the Social Security Death Index, you can find out how long people with the family name Nortje lived, as well as find information about specific Nortje ancestors. The Social Security Death Index has records for over 70 million names; where you can find birth dates, death dates, addresses, and more. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Nortje ancestors, such as occupation.
You can use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Nortje surname lived over the years. While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc. Find out where people with the family name Nortje lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. The Social Security Death Index has records for over 70 million names; where you can find birth dates, death dates, addresses, and more. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Nortje ancestors, such as occupation.
Ruth (Hebrew: רות ‎ rut, [ˈʁut]) is a common female given name, from Ruth the Moabite in the Book of Ruth, possibly from the Hebrew for companion.. In Israel, Ruti is a common nickname for Rut (Ruth) in the same way Bill is for William in English. In the Biblical story, Ruth tells her mother-in-law, Naomi, Whither thou goest, I will go.. Ruth ranked in the top 100 most popular names for baby girls in Ireland and Northern Ireland in the past decade. It was the 347th most popular name for baby girls in the United States in 2007 and was ranked as the 19th most common name for women and girls in the United States in the 1890 census.
1 English Parish & Probate Records for NORTJE. 2  Includes 15 million birth, marriage, death, probate, and burial names from historical parish registers in England, Wales, Scotland, and Ireland ranging from 1538 to 1837. 1 Research NORTJE genealogy. 2  Search over 3,000 individual databases instantly. 3  Featured databases include: 1930 Census-Fully Indexed, SSDI, and many more. 4  1790 - 1930 Census: Search for NORTJE Now.
Mikaela /mi-kae-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Mikaela's name origins are Hebrew and French, and the meaning of the name Mikaela is who is like God?. Mikaela is a version of Michaela (Hebrew): Latin feminine transcription of Michael. Mikaela is also a form of Michelle (French, Hebrew). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Mikaela for girls. Mikaela was first listed in 1990 and reached its peak rank of #273 in the U.S. in the year 1997, and is presently at #573. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014