What is the second rarest element on Earth? The second rarest element on Earth is unstable so it does not have a long life (22min.), but uranium is the rarest natural element and is the second heavist natural element. … Actually, there are even rarer elements that last for less then fractions of a second. Some are so rare that they haven't even been discovered. 6 people found this useful. The second rarest element on Earth is unstable so it does not have a long life (22min.), but uranium is the rarest natural element and is the second heavist natural element. … Actually, there are even rarer elements that last for less then fractions of a second.
Despite their name, rare earth elements are – with the exception of the radioactive promethium – relatively plentiful in Earth's crust, with cerium being the 25th most abundant element at 68 parts per million, or as abundant as copper. Rare earth elements became known to the world with the discovery of the black mineral Ytterbite (renamed to Gadolinite in 1800) by Lieutenant Carl Axel Arrhenius in 1787, at a quarry in the village of Ytterby, Sweden.
However, because of their geochemical properties, rare earth elements are typically dispersed and not often found concentrated as rare earth minerals in economically exploitable ore deposits. It was the very scarcity of these minerals (previously called earths) that led to the term rare earth. The first such mineral discovered was gadolinite, a mineral composed of cerium, yttrium, iron, silicon and other elements. Rare earth elements became known to the world with the discovery of the black mineral Ytterbite (renamed to Gadolinite in 1800) by Lieutenant Carl Axel Arrhenius in 1787, at a quarry in the village of Ytterby, Sweden.
Rare earths are a series of chemical elements found in the Earth’s crust that are vital to many modern technologies, including consumer electronics, computers and networks, communications, clean energy, advanced transportation, health care, environmental mitigation, national defense, and many others. This silver-white metal is one of the most reactive rare earth elements. It is used to make special optical glasses, including infrared absorbing glass, camera and telescope lenses, and can also be used to make steel more malleable. Other applications for lanthanum include wastewater treatment and petroleum refining.
A rare earth element (REE) or rare earth metal (REM), as defined by IUPAC, is one of a set of seventeen chemical elements in the periodic table, specifically the fifteen lanthanides, as well as scandium and yttrium. Rare earth elements became known to the world with the discovery of the black mineral Ytterbite (renamed to Gadolinite in 1800) by Lieutenant Carl Axel Arrhenius in 1787, at a quarry in the village of Ytterby, Sweden.
There are 17 elements that are considered to be rare earth elements—15 elements in the lanthanide series and two additional elements that share similar chemical properties. They are listed below in order of atomic number (Z): Scandium or Sc (21). Scandium, a silvery-white metal, is a non-lanthanide rare earth. This silver-white metal is one of the most reactive rare earth elements. It is used to make special optical glasses, including infrared absorbing glass, camera and telescope lenses, and can also be used to make steel more malleable. Other applications for lanthanum include wastewater treatment and petroleum refining.
In 2013, China produced about 90% of the world's supply of rare earth element ores. The USGS Mineral Commodity Summary (2) reported production tonnages for Australia, the United States, India, Brazil, Russia, Vietnam and Malaysia. This chart shows China's dominance in the production of rare earth elements between 1994 and 2012. The United States was a significant producer through the early 1990s, but low-priced materials being sold by China forced mines in the United States and other countries out of operation.
The principal economic sources of rare earths are the minerals bastnasite, monazite, and loparite and the lateritic ion-adsorption clays. The rare earths are a relatively abundant group of 17 elements composed of scandium, yttrium, and the lanthanides. The elements range in crustal abundance from cerium, the 25th most abundant element of the 78 common elements in the Earth's crust at 60 parts per million, to thulium and lutetium, the least abundant rare-earth elements at about 0.5 part per million.
A rare earth mineral is a mineral that contains one or more rare earth elements as major metal constituents. Rare earth minerals are usually found in association with alkaline to peralkaline igneous complexes, in pegmatites associated with alkaline magmas and in or associated with carbonatite intrusives. Perovskite mineral phases are common hosts to rare earth elements within the alkaline complexes. The following includes the relatively common hydrothermal rare earth minerals and minerals that often contain significant rare earth substitution: 1  aeschynite. 2  allanite. 3  apatite. 4  bastnaesite. 5  bastnäsite. 6  britholite. 7  brockite. 8  cerite. 9  fluocerite. 10  fluorite. 11  gadolinite. 12  monazite. 13  parisite. 14  stillwellite. 15  synchysite. 16  titanite. 17  wakefieldite. 18  xenotime.  zircon