There are costs involved in operating a pool, it depends on the size of the pool, and inground pools typically cost more than aboveground pools. These are average figures below, and can vary widely by location or pool type, and length of season. Electricity: to run the pump(s), and other electrical equipment - $100/mo. Water: to add fill water to replace that lost to splashout, backwash, evaporation or leaks - $20/mo.
The cost to run a pool heat pump is $100-$200 per month. Gas Pool Heaters How Much Do Gas Pool Heaters Cost? Propane or Natural, same price. Gas pool heaters are sized according to the size of the pool, or if you have an attached spa that you want to heat to over 100 degrees. The cost to run a pool heat pump is $100-$200 per month. Propane or Natural, same price. Gas pool heaters are sized according to the size of the pool, or if you have an attached spa that you want to heat to over 100 degrees. Most inground pools will install at least a 250K Btu gas heater, up to a 400K size.
A pool can be fun, but it has a number of costs. When deciding whether or not to install a swimming pool, one of the first questions that comes to mind is how much the pool will cost to install. However, this is not the only cost involved with having a swimming pool.
Bottom line? If your pool costs $30,000 to install, say $3,000 a year in total running, maintenance and repairs, and you don't get much back when you sell it, how much has it really cost you? Remember you could have invested that $30,000 and earned a return on the money. If you borrowed it, you have to pay interest. 
A pool pump helps keep your pool water clean, as long as it runs long enough to circulate all of the water in your pool through the filter. The amount of time you need to run your pool pump depends on factors such as pool size, frequency of use and pump size. Pumps typically don’t need to run for more than 8 hours a day with proper pool cleaning and maintenance. This turnover rate varies based on pool size and the pump. Pumps can typically circulate all of the water within a 6 to 8 hour period; some pools require pumping for up to 12 hours.
1 Installing an aboveground pool can cost $1,500-$5,000; for in-ground estimated costs are $7,000-$16,000 for a vinyl-lined model, $15,000-$25,000 for a fiberglass shell and $17,000-$45,000 for concrete or gunite. 2  However, custom designs can run prices much higher. 
Pump Timing. A pool pump should run for as long as necessary to circulate all of the water through the pump and filter system. This turnover rate varies based on pool size and the pump. Pumps can typically circulate all of the water within a 6 to 8 hour period; some pools require pumping for up to 12 hours.
Click here for our pool timers. Swimming pool pumps should be run an average 8 hours a day to properly circulate and clean your water. The pump should push your entire pool in gallons in this 8 hour period of time. However, often times swimming pool pump horse power is overrated for their size swimming pool. If it is overrated your pump may be pushing your water through in a 6 hour period or even a 4 hour period of time. In this case you can reduce the time you run your swimming pool pump. According to Florida Power and Electric reducing a pool pump by 2 hours will save you about $10 per month. Here is the average monthly costs for the average 1 HP pump to run