In his life he composed ... The Meaning of Dante s Inferno Dante s Inferno is a poem that is not easy to understand. The Inferno opens itself up to many questions, as well as, complicated interpretation. The Inferno The Inferno, written by Dante, is a poem that deals with the afterlife. It deals with the ideas that actions and practices taken up in ... the way to Paradise, since as a Pagan he had no right to enter there instead a more worthy soul would take him the final part of the way. Dante gladly accepts his offer.
Dante-an Italian poet famous for writing the Divine Comedy that describes a journey through Hell and purgatory and paradise guided by Virgil and his idealized Beatrice (1265-1321). Dante Alighieri. Like Dante or Bunyan, he has a revelation of another life; like Bacon, he is profoundly impressed with the unity of knowledge; in the early Church he exercised a real influence on theology, and at the Revival of Literature on politics.
Italian Meaning: The name Dante is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Dante is: A, the Italian form of Durand meaning enduring. Famous bearer: The poet Dante Alighieri wrote 'The Divine Comedy' with its graphic description of medieval Hell known as 'Dante's Inferno. Latin Meaning: The name Dante is a Latin baby name. 
• When the bombing finally stopped, the city looked like Dante's Inferno. Definition from the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Advanced Learner's Dictionary. 
Dante Alighieri portrays this message in his infamous three-part poem, The Divine Comedy. The Italian poet takes the audience on a journey through the stories of Hell (Inferno), Purgatory (Purgatorio), and Heaven (Paradiso). 
[imˈfɛrno] ; Italian for  Hell ) is the first part of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy. It is followed by Purgatorio and Paradiso. It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell, guided by the Roman poet Virgil. Before entering Hell completely, Dante and his guide see the Uncommitted, souls of people who in life did nothing, neither for good nor evil; among these Dante recognizes either Pope Celestine V or Pontius Pilate (the text is ambiguous). Mixed with them are outcasts who took no side in the Rebellion of Angels.
9 Circles of Hell (Dante's Inferno). Inferno, the first part of Dante's Divine Comedy that inspired the latest Dan Brown's bestseller of the same title describes the poet's vision of Hell. When reaching the Third Circle of Hell, Dante and Virgil find souls of gluttons who are overlooked by a worm-monster Cerberus. Sinners in this circle of Hell are punished by being forced to lie in a vile slush that is produced by never ending icy rain.
The Divine Comedy is composed of 14,233 lines that are divided into three canticas (Ital. pl. cantiche) – Inferno (Hell), Purgatorio (Purgatory), and Paradiso (Paradise) – each consisting of 33 cantos (Ital. pl. canti). 
Dark Wood The dark forest--selva oscura--in which Dante finds himself at the beginning of the poem (Inf. 1.2) is described in vague terms, perhaps as an indication of the protagonist's own disorientation.
It is of Spanish, Italian and Latin origin, and the meaning of Dante is lasting, enduring. Historical: Dante Alighieri, considered one of the great poets of all time, wrote The Divine Comedy, notable for the graphic description of the medieval version of Hell known as Dante's Inferno. Dante was actually his nickname; his full name was Durante.