College. A bachelor’s degree in health science is required when going for a career as a physician assistant. This will take an additional four years of work. It’s also important to carefully choose which school you are going to attend. Thousands of people aspire to become a physician assistant, but many people wonder how long it takes to become one. High School. All aspiring physician assistants need to have completed high school or have gotten a GED in order to start their path to medicine.
Second, many PA programs require that students have hands-on patient experience before applying. Amount of experience varies from 500 to 2,000 hours. Factor the time it will take you to complete this extensive experience into how long it will take you to become a physician assistant. The following outline will give you an idea of how long you can expect it to take to become a PA depending on your current level of education. I am currently a high school student... If you are currently a high school student, you have two paths you can take to the physician assistant career.
It takes between six and seven years of schooling and certification  to become radiology assistant. You will have to earn a bachelor's  degree in college which takes approxi … mately four years. You will  then have to complete an advanced radiology assistant educational  program that is a two year program. Physician assistant programs usually last at least 2 years. Admission requirements vary by program, but many require at least 2 years of college and some health care experienc … e. All States require that PAs complete an accredited, formal education program and pass a National exam to obtain a license.
Once you become a certified physician assistant, you will be asked to maintain your certification. 1  In 2014, physician assistants started having to comply with a 10-year certification cycle divided into two 5-year segments. 2  The segments are shorter pre-2014; look up the rules for your own particular situation. You will probably need to have healthcare experience before you apply for a physician assistant program. Most programs will require it. 1  You could get such experience by volunteering for non-profit organizations, such as the Peace Corps.
In that case, it would take you a minimum of 10 years to become a physician assistant: four years for the bachelor's degree, three years of work experience and two years for the physician assistant program. Related Reading: Bariatric Medicine Physician Assistant Jobs. Prerequisites and Work Experience. Physician assistant programs have differing entry requirements, but the American Academy of Physician Assistants notes they typically require a minimum of two years of college coursework.
Most PA programs are Masters programs and take two years to complete, without breaks. Some programs are three years long but have summers off. These programs all require a bac … helor's degree, which is 4 years. Therefore, that is 6-7 years education total after high school. Physician assistant programs usually last at least 2 years. Admission requirements vary by program, but many require at least 2 years of college and some health care experienc … e. All States require that PAs complete an accredited, formal education program and pass a National exam to obtain a license.
1 The average physician assistant is paid over $90,000. 2  Physician assistants work in many health care settings, ranging from emergency medicine to doctor’s offices. 3  These programs are competitive; however, the government has reported that employment of physician assistants should grow 38 percent from 2012 through 2022. You will probably need to have healthcare experience before you apply for a physician assistant program. Most programs will require it. 1  You could get such experience by volunteering for non-profit organizations, such as the Peace Corps.
Physician Assistant Program. After all is said and done in high school and college, you will move on to a specialized physician assistant program. These programs typically last for two years, though some may last slightly longer. Once the program has been completed, you will be given your certificate and medical license. Thousands of people aspire to become a physician assistant, but many people wonder how long it takes to become one. High School. All aspiring physician assistants need to have completed high school or have gotten a GED in order to start their path to medicine.
PA programs typically take between 24 and 27 months to complete. So, it will take you about two years to become a physician assistant. If you want to work during your PA program, some schools offer a three year part-time option. Planning ahead for your PA education is imperative. The following outline will give you an idea of how long you can expect it to take to become a PA depending on your current level of education. I am currently a high school student... If you are currently a high school student, you have two paths you can take to the physician assistant career.