Rotator cuff tear arthropathy (arthritis of the shoulder associated with a massive cuff tear) is best diagnosed by an orthopedic surgeon with experience in shoulder disorders. Certain surgeons specialize in rotator cuff tear arthropathy (arthritis of the shoulder associated with a massive cuff tear). In rotator cuff tear arthropathy the rotator cuff tendons that normally are interposed between the humeral head and the overlying coracoacromial arch become progressively thinned until the humeral head moves upwards and rubs against the bone of the arch. [Figure 2].
Rotator cuff arthropathy is a condition where there is severe shoulder arthritis in the setting of an irreparable rotator cuff tear. The rotator cuff consists of four muscles that become tendons as they attach to the shoulder. The rotator cuff may be torn due to an injury, aging, overuse of the shoulder or severe arthritis.
Rotator cuff tear arthropathy (or shoulder arthritis with a large rotator cuff tear) is a severe and complex form of shoulder arthritis in which the shoulder has lost not only the cartilage that normally covers its joint surface but also the tendons of the rotator cuff tear which help position and power the joint. Genetics. Rotator cuff tear arthropathy (or shoulder arthritis with a large rotator cuff tear) is not known to be inherited although rotator cuff tears appear to be more common in individuals from families in which other members also have cuff tears.
Cuff tear arthropathy is actually a type of wear and tear, or degenerative arthritis of the shoulder that develops over time after the rotator cuff is damaged. Normally, when the rotator cuff muscles contract, they pull the head of the humerus tightly into the socket of the shoulder. Cuff tear arthropathy is the result of long standing lack of rotator cuff function. In almost all cases, repair of the rotator cuff tear is no longer an option. Surgery for cuff tear arthropathy is done when pain and decreased motion continue after conservative care.
The rotator cuff is made up of four muscles that surround the humeral head (ball). These muscles are attached to the bone by tendons that blend together to form a cuff that surrounds the ball. When the rotator cuff muscles contract, their combined action centers the ball in deepest portion of the shoulder socket. First, as a result of a long-standing tear, the rotator cuff muscles atrophy and are replaced by fat. Second, torn tendons undergo further degeneration and thinning both from disuse and abrasion. Third, the bone of the humeral head weakens from disuse.
Rotator cuff tear arthropathy (or shoulder arthritis with a large rotator cuff tear) is diagnosed by a history of progressive loss of shoulder function usually without an injury along with a physical examination showing weakness and grinding on movement and a typical appearance on X-ray. In rotator cuff tear arthropathy the rotator cuff tendons that normally are interposed between the humeral head and the overlying coracoacromial arch become progressively thinned until the humeral head moves upwards and rubs against the bone of the arch. [Figure 2].
The rotator cuff is a unique structure in the shoulder that is formed by four tendons. These four tendons attach to four muscles that help keep the shoulder stabilized in the socket (or glenoid) and help rotate the upper arm inward and outward. Cuff tear arthropathy is the result of long standing lack of rotator cuff function. In almost all cases, repair of the rotator cuff tear is no longer an option. Surgery for cuff tear arthropathy is done when pain and decreased motion continue after conservative care.
Causes. The cause of rotator cuff tear arthropathy (or shoulder arthritis with a large rotator cuff tear) is not known. We suspect that it is a result of the simultaneous degeneration of the rotator cuff and the surface of the ball of the shoulder (the humeral head). Genetics. Rotator cuff tear arthropathy (or shoulder arthritis with a large rotator cuff tear) is not known to be inherited although rotator cuff tears appear to be more common in individuals from families in which other members also have cuff tears.