A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. Kiaran From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. Norman buy the. book A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. kiaran
Ciaran /cia-ran/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Ciaran) is pronounced KEE-a-rawn. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Ciaran is black. Ciar n is derived from ciar. Often anglicized as Kieran. Name of two Irish saints, a hermit of the fifth century and the founder of the monastery. Ciaran is an unusual first name for men. Ciaran is also an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ciaran for boys.
Ciaran. Meaning of the Irish name Ciaran. Listen and learn how to pronounce Ciaran so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: ciar “”dark”” and the diminutive-in it means “”little dark one.”” Popular for over 1500 years, at least 26 saints have borne the name. The most notable, St. Ciaran of Clonmacnoise (c. 530 AD), was the son of a carpenter who studied with St. Enda for seven years and went on to establish a monastery at Clonmacnoise, on the banks of the River Shannon in County Westmeath.
Meaning of the Irish name Ciaran. MEANING: ciar “”dark”” and the diminutive-in it means “”little dark one.”” Popular for over 1500 years, at least 26 saints have borne the name. The most notable, St. Ciaran of Clonmacnoise (c. 530 AD), was the son of a carpenter who studied with St. Enda for seven years and went on to establish a monastery at Clonmacnoise, on the banks of the River Shannon in County Westmeath.
Origin of the name Kieran: A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. Kiaran From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. kiaran
Origin of the name Kieran: A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. humans A borrowing from the Irish, Kieran is the Irish form of the Gaelic Ciaran (ciarán little dark), one which is from (ciar, black), dark a word meaning-dark haired or-black haired when applied to. Humans: Var. kiaran
Hello, Guest. Extremely popular in Ireland, Ciaran is also well used in England and is beginning to infiltrate the U.S., more popularly with the phonetic Kieran spelling. An all-around attractive name whose only mild downside might be its similarity to the outmoded female Karen. 
[ 2 syll. cia-ran, ci-ar-an ] The baby boy name Ciaran is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is K IH-R-aeN †. Ciaran is used chiefly in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic. Ciaran is a variant of the name Kieran (English and Irish). Ciaran is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Out of the group of boy names directly linked to Ciaran, Kieran was the most popular in 2012
Irish Meaning: The name Ciaran is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Ciaran is: Black-haired. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.