Above: Opening ceremony of Nikola Tesla Memorial Center in Smiljan, Lika, Croatia, on July 10, 2006. Milka Kajganić, journalist, publicist and human rights activist, is standing in the center with a blue dress. Petar Stojanovic on the far right.
Welcome to the Smiljan google satellite map! This place is situated in Lika-Senj, Croatia, its geographical coordinates are 44° 33' 50 North, 15° 19' 5 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Smiljan. See Smiljan photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Smiljan in Croatia.
Thematic Park (museum/memorial center) at his birthplace in Smiljan, Croatia. CroatiaReport recently visited the newly opened Tesla museum at the birthplace of Nikola Tesla, one of the greatest inventors coming out of this region and beyond.
Smiljan (. [smi̞ʎan]) smî̞ʎan is a village in the mountainous region Of lika In. Croatia it is located 6 (km.3 7) mi northwest Of, gospić and fifteen kilometers from The-Zagreb split; highway its population is (418). 2011
Above: Erected commemorative table by Tesla's house in Smiljan, Lika, Croatia. The commemorative table reads: In this house, Nikola Tesla, was born in 1856, where he got the first understandings about the secrets of nature.
Nikola Tesla was born on July 10, 1856, in what is now Smiljan, Croatia. Tesla's interest in electrical invention was spurred by his mother, Djuka Mandic, who invented small household appliances in her spare time while her son was growing up.
Born: 7-10-1856 in Smiljan, Croatia. Nikola Tesla invented the induction motor with rotating magnetic field that made unit drives for machines feasible and made AC (Alternating Current) power transmission an economic necessity.
Above: Opening ceremony of Nikola Tesla Memorial Center in Smiljan, Lika, Croatia, on July 10, 2006. Entrance of the renovated Serbian Orthodox Church where Tesla's father Milutin Tesla was a priest.
Smiljan is a village in Croatian region Lika where Nikola Tesla, a famous scientist was born. It's a small village in rarely inhabited mountain area of Croatia.