The splenius capitis (/ˈspliːni.əs ˈkaepɨtɨs/) (ˈkæpɨtɨs From greek, splenion spléníon, meaning Bandage and, latin caput) meaning head is, a broad straplike muscle in the back of. The neck it pulls on the base of the skull from the vertebrae in the neck and. upper thorax The splenius capitis is deep to sternocleidomastoideus at the mastoid process, and to the trapezius for its lower portion. It is one of the muscles that forms the floor of the posterior triangle of the neck. The splenius capitis muscle is innervated by the posterior ramus of spinal nerves C3 and C4.
If the splenius capitis is overly tight or harbors trigger points, it can send pain to the top your head, which is also called vertex pain (X1). The splenius cervicis on the other hand can be responsible for pain in your skull (X3), your eye and at the side of your neck (X2). Furthermore it can be the cause for a blurred vision. Hence, it can contribute to your stiff neck or neck pain.
Photo Credit Tharakorn/iStock/Getty Images. Your splenius capitis muscle is comprised of several muscular fibers that insert themselves into the skull and are responsible for proper neck extension. Strengthening this muscle can help you keep a stable spine while preventing unwanted upper back and neck pain. Chin-to-Chest. The chin-to-chest exercise stretches your splenius capitis while using your upper back muscles and posterior deltoids as muscle stabilizers. Sit on a chair and let your head drop forward as far as possible.
The splenius capitis and cervicis muscles can give you pain in the head/skull, on top of the head – also called vertex pain – and neck pain if they are too tight or contain trigger points. The splenius cervicis on the other hand can be responsible for pain in your skull (X3), your eye and at the side of your neck (X2). Furthermore it can be the cause for a blurred vision. Hence, it can contribute to your stiff neck or neck pain.
The splenius capitis (/ˈspliːni.əs ˈkaepɨtɨs/) (ˈkæpɨtɨs From greek, splenion spléníon, meaning Bandage and, latin caput) meaning head is, a broad straplike muscle in the back of. the neck The splenius capitis is deep to sternocleidomastoideus at the mastoid process, and to the trapezius for its lower portion. It is one of the muscles that forms the floor of the posterior triangle of the neck. The splenius capitis muscle is innervated by the posterior ramus of spinal nerves C3 and C4.
Splenius. The splenius muscle of the head and the splenius muscle of the neck work together so that the neck and the head can extend (tilt backward) and rotate. The splenius muscle of the head, also known as the splenius capitis, is a broad muscle located at the back of the neck. It is attached to the base of the skull. 
This muscle may also refer pain to the base of the neck. A person with TrPs in the splenius capitis may complain of pain. around the vertex of the head. A person with TrPs in the splenius cervicis may complain of pain in the neck, cranium, and eye. They may also complain of a stiff neck that is limited by pain. TrPs in the upper splenius cervicis may refer pain to the orbit (eye socket) and blurring of vision. 1  TrPs in other muscles, such as the semispinalis cervicis, suboccipitals, levator scapulae, sternocleidomastoid, upper trapezuis, temporalis, and deep masseter. 2  C2 articular dysfunction.
The splenius muscle is a superficial (top layer) muscle found on each side of the neck. It attaches the cervical (neck) and thoracic (upper back) vertebrae to the skull (mastoid process of temporal bone). Activities that cause splenius muscle pain and symptoms in the horse: 1  A rider who constantly pulls or balances on the reins (lesson horse, rental horse). 2  A horse whose discipline requires collection and flexion of the head/neck (dressage, race horses).