Here, I am giving the policy name start-menu-shortcut-policy 4. Now Right-click on the newly created gpo start-menu-shortcut-policyand click edit. 5. In the Group Policy Management Editor window, expand User Configuration and go to the node Shortcuts (User Configuration/Preferences/Windows Settings/Shortcuts). Note: If you want to Pin a Program in Start Menu, Refer this article: How to Pin a Program to Start menu via Group Policy Steps to add start menu shortcut via Group Policy 1. Open the Group Policy Management console by running the command gpmc.msc.
Note: If you want to Pin a Program in Start Menu, Refer this article: How to Pin a Program to Start menu via Group Policy. 1. Open the Group Policy Management console by running the command gpmc.msc. 2. Expand the tree and right-click on the OU you want this policy to be applied to. Note: If you want to Pin a Program in Start Menu, Refer this article: How to Pin a Program to Start menu via Group Policy Steps to add start menu shortcut via Group Policy
In this screencast I show you how to use the Group Policy Preferences Shortcuts Extension to deploy shortcuts to a users desktop. This video also demonstrates how you can configure the shortcut to only apply once for the users and how you can configure them to automatically be cleaned up when no longer required. 8 Comments. Screencast: How to use Group Policy Preferences to setup up Shortcuts http://ping.fm/MeJJb. Reply to this comment. Hi Alan, Great tutorial. Just thought I’d point out that you can disable an item in the right-click context menu if you go to the All Tasks sub-menu.
I've only been able to make the shortcuts appear as pinned programs by right-clicking and selecting Pin to Start Menu from the context menu. This does create a shortcut file in the folder, but it must also do some other magic for which I cannot account. I want every user in a specific OU to have the shortcut for one of our standard apps at the top of the Start Menu every time they click on the Start Button. I know that the shortcuts for pinned programs are stored in %AppData%\Microsoft\Internet Explorer\Quick Launch\User Pinned\StartMenu.
Now, you can create your own GPO, and create add shortcut icon into start menu via Group Policy as per your wish....... - Add Environment Variable via Group Policy. - Add desktop shortcut icon through Group Policy. - Pin Program to Taskbar via Group Policy. Note: If you want to Pin a Program in Start Menu, Refer this article: How to Pin a Program to Start menu via Group Policy Steps to add start menu shortcut via Group Policy 1. Open the Group Policy Management console by running the command gpmc.msc.
Here, I am giving the policy name start-menu-shortcut-policy. 4. Now Right-click on the newly created gpo start-menu-shortcut-policy and click edit. 5. In the Group Policy Management Editor window, expand User Configuration and go to the node Shortcuts (User Configuration/Preferences/Windows Settings/Shortcuts) . Note: If you want to Pin a Program in Start Menu, Refer this article: How to Pin a Program to Start menu via Group Policy Steps to add start menu shortcut via Group Policy 1. Open the Group Policy Management console by running the command gpmc.msc.
Can anyone tell me how to Pin a shortcut to the Start Menu using group policy (Windows 7)? I want every user in a specific OU to have the shortcut for one of our standard apps at the top of the Start Menu every time they click on the Start Button. I know that the shortcuts for pinned programs are stored in %AppData%\Microsoft\Internet Explorer\Quick Launch\User Pinned\StartMenu. I've tried using Group Policy Preferences to create Shortcuts in this folder, but to no avail. Simply creating or dropping a LNK file into that folder isn't enough: the created/dropped LNK file doesn't appear when the user clicks on the Start button.
Can anyone tell me how to Pin a shortcut to the Start Menu using group policy (Windows 7)? I want every user in a specific OU to have the shortcut for one of our standard apps at the top of the Start Menu every time they click on the Start Button. I know that the shortcuts for pinned programs are stored in %AppData%\Microsoft\Internet Explorer\Quick Launch\User Pinned\StartMenu. I've tried using Group Policy Preferences to create Shortcuts in this folder, but to no avail. Simply creating or dropping a LNK file into that folder isn't enough: the created/dropped LNK file doesn't appear when the user clicks on the Start b
How to Do It... 1  Create a new Group Policy Object (GPO). 2  I named it Desktop Shortcuts. 3  Edit the Computer Preferences to add the shortcuts to the All Users Start Menu. 4  Expand Computer Configuration / Preferences / Windows Settings. 5  Click on Shortcuts. 6  Right-click Shortcuts, and select New / Shortcut. 7  For this example, I entered the shutdown ... 