Culturally, Warriparinga has particular significance to the Kaurna people through its association with the Tjilbruke Dreaming story and as the beginning of the Tjilbruke Trail. An interpretive museum, the Living Kaurna Cultural Centre is located on the site and recognises this tradition. Prior to European settlement, Warriparinga played a significant role in the traditions of the local Kaurna people – Warriparinga is the gateway to the Tjilbruke Dreaming, which relates the story of how many of the springs south of Adelaide were formed.
Like cloth, the Tjilbruke Dreaming is an intricate story woven of many strands – creation, law and relationships. An ancestral being of the Kaurna people, Tjilbruki found that a kari (emu) which rightfully belonged to him had been killed by his nephew Kulutuwi. Although forgiven by his uncle, Kulutuwi was killed by his two part brothers, believing that he had broken the law. Finally, in his sorrow Tjilbruke decided to leave the world of humanity. His spirit took the form of a bird, the Glossy Ibis. Being a master of fire-making, his body became a rocky outcrop at a place of hidden fire near Brukunga in the Adelaide Hills. The Kaurna name for the Glossy Ibis is Tjilbruke.
‘When we understand the place names, we recognise the land.’. Kaurna Aboriginal people are the Traditional Owners of the Adelaide plains in South Australia. Prior to European settlement they named places using their own language and some places eg, Willunga, are still known by their Kaurna name but most are not. The project combines work of the Kaurna Warra Pintyandi language group and the Land Services Group and is an initiative of the Kaurna Tappa Iri Regional Agreement 2005-2008, with funds provided by the Australian Government Department of the Environment and Water Resources.
Kaurna culture and language was almost completely destroyed within a few decades of the European settlement of South Australia in 1836. However, extensive documentation by early missionaries and other researchers has enabled a modern revival of both language and culture. Many places around Adelaide and the Fleurieu Peninsula have names either directly or partially derived from Kaurna place names. Some were the names of the Kaurna bands who lived there. There are also a few Kaurna names hybridised with European words.
The Sturt River as it makes its way through Warriparinga. Warriparinga (meaning Windy Place in the local Kaurna language) is a nature reserve comprising 3.5 hectares (8.6 acres) in the metropolitan suburb of Bedford Park, in the southern suburbs of Adelaide. Prior to European settlement, Warriparinga played a significant role in the traditions of the local Kaurna people – Warriparinga is the gateway to the Tjilbruke Dreaming, which relates the story of how many of the springs south of Adelaide were formed.
Tjilbruke is the creation ancestor of the Kaurna nation of the Adelaide plains. Tjilbruke is the creator of seven freshwater springs that flow along our coastline, a keeper of the fire and a peace maker/law maker. This dreaming story tells of Tjilbruke chasing an emu on the plains. Tjilbruke is a story with many elements, a story woven of many strands. Kaurna people have survived with the springs Tjilbruke created since ancient times, and with the fire knowledge that Tjilbruke keeps. He tells us the safe way to travel across country
Resurgence and interest in Kaurna Culture has recently been taking place, as it has been for many other Aboriginal Cultures around Australia. For example, similar to the nomenclature now used in the Northern Territory where Ayers Rock is usually called Uluru, many notable Adelaide place names now share dual naming. The Kaurna were bordered by the Peramangk People in the Mount Lofty Ranges to the east, by the Ngarrindjeri and Ramindjeri Peoples to the southeast and by the Ngadjuri People to the north. There were 650 Kaurna People on the South Australian Register in 1842.
The Kaurna people are a group of Indigenous Australians whose traditional lands include the area around the Adelaide Plains of South Australia. Many places around Adelaide and the Fleurieu Peninsula have names either directly or partially derived from Kaurna place names. Some were the names of the Kaurna bands who lived there. There are also a few Kaurna names hybridised with European words.
The early settlers of South Australia referred to the various Kaurna bands of the Adelaide Plains and Fleurieu Peninsula as being separate tribes such as the Adelaide tribe (the Kouwandilla band), the Noarlunga tribe (the Ngurlonnga band) and the Willunga tribe (the Willangga band) etc. Many places around Adelaide and the Fleurieu Peninsula have names either directly or partially derived from Kaurna place names. Some were the names of the Kaurna bands who lived there. There are also a few Kaurna names hybridised with European words.