The Contribution Limit. For 2013 and 2014. the basic limit for regular contributions to a Roth IRA is $5,500 for people under 50 years of age, and $6,500 for those who are 50 or older. (Numbers like this can be found in our Reference Room .) This limit may be reduced for any of the following reasons: 1 There’s no age limit for contributions to Roth IRAs. 2  For regular IRAs, you lose the ability to make contributions in the year you turn age 70½. 3  Not so for Roth IRAs. 4  If you meet the other requirements, you can set up a brand new Roth IRA at age 85 and begin saving for your “retirement.” There’s also no lower age limit.
[1] There are no official minimum or maximum age limits on making contributions to a Roth IRA. This feature gives younger and older investors the opportunity to invest the money they've earned and accrue earnings at a tax free rate. Minimum Age Limits. There is no minimum age limit on when an investor may begin making contributions to a Roth IRA. As long as the trustee or custodian that holds the account will allow a minor to open a Roth IRA, a child or teenager may make contributions from post tax income.
Like adults, minors are subject to the maximum annual contribution limits for Roth IRAs. As of 2012, the maximum contribution limit is $5,000 per tax year for investors under the age of 50. A minor may not contribute more than $5,000 to a Roth IRA. Contributing to a Roth IRA may have significant advantages for minors. Minimum Age Limits. There is no minimum age limit on when an investor may begin making contributions to a Roth IRA. As long as the trustee or custodian that holds the account will allow a minor to open a Roth IRA, a child or teenager may make contributions from post tax income.
Minimum Age Limit for IRA Contributions. There is not a minimum age limit to make any type of IRA contribution. However to be eligible to make any type of IRA contribution you must have earned income in an amount that equals or excess your IRA contribution. Earned income is income that is considered taxable compensation – income from wages that you worked for. When you transfer money from one IRA to another IRA it is called an IRA transfer and you can do this at any age. A contribution is new money that was not in a tax-deferred account that is going into an IRA. The upper age limit on Traditional IRAs applies only to contributions; not to rollovers or transfers.
(TMFSchool). Jul 16, 2015 at 7:10AM. If you want contribute money to an IRA for your retirement, the IRS rules are (uncharacteristically) straightforward: You must be under the age of 70 1/2 (for a traditional IRA; the Roth has no age restrictions) and you must have earned taxable income. 
Roth IRA Contribution Eligibility. Anyone with earned income that falls under the above guidelines can use a Roth IRA to save for retirement. How much you can save is dependent upon your age. If you under the age of 50 years old you can contribute $5,500 toward retirement in a Roth IRA.
Contribution limits. The IRA limit for contributions in 2014 is $5,500 -- plus an extra $1,000 catch-up contribution for those age 50 or older. Note that Roth IRA contributions must be made with earned money. There's no minimum age for opening a Roth, but it must be funded with earned income
1 ROTH IRA-There is no upper age limit to make a contribution to a ROTH IRA. 2  Traditional IRA-For a Traditional IRA, once you reach the year in which you turn age 70 ½ you are no longer eligible to make a Traditional IRA contribution. When you transfer money from one IRA to another IRA it is called an IRA transfer and you can do this at any age. A contribution is new money that was not in a tax-deferred account that is going into an IRA. The upper age limit on Traditional IRAs applies only to contributions; not to rollovers or transfers.
If you are age 50 or older the same $5,500 contribution limit applies. However, you are also allowed to contribute an additional $1,000 as a catch up contribution toward retirement, for a total of a $6,500 contribution. Read on to learn more about Roth IRA contribution limits. Anyone with earned income that falls under the above guidelines can use a Roth IRA to save for retirement. How much you can save is dependent upon your age. If you under the age of 50 years old you can contribute $5,500 toward retirement in a Roth IRA.