Mutations in the F8 gene cause hemophilia A, while hemophilia B is caused by mutations in the F9 gene. The proteins made by these genes play a critical role in the process of blood clotting.
Genetics. The two main types of hemophilia are caused by gene mutations that affect the levels of clotting factors in the blood. Mutation of the FVIII gene leads to hemophilia A, also called classic hemophilia, while a mutations in the FIX gene leads to hemophilia B, also called Christmas disease.
F8 and F9 Genes. Mutations in the F8 or F9 genes cause hemophilia. Mutations in the F8 gene cause hemophilia A, while hemophilia B is caused by mutations in the F9 gene. The proteins made by these genes play a critical role in the process of blood clotting.
In 70% of cases of hemophilia, there is a known family history. The gene that causes hemophilia is passed from mother to child. A mother that carries the gene is called a carrier. A carrier has a 50% chance of having a son with hemophilia and a 50% chance of having a daughter who is also a carrier. In other words, a female carrier has a 25% chance of having a child with hemophilia.
1 Hemophilia A, the most common type, is caused by insufficient clotting factor VIII. 2  Hemophilia B, the second most common type, is caused by insufficient clotting factor IX. 3  Hemophilia C, in which signs and symptoms are often mild, is caused by insufficient clotting factor XI.
Changes in the F8 gene are responsible for hemophilia A, while mutations in the F9 gene cause hemophilia B. The F8 gene provides instructions for making a protein called coagulation factor VIII. A related protein, coagulation factor IX, is produced from the F9 gene.
In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, it is very rare for females to have hemophilia.
Hemophilia inheritance depends on your type of hemophilia: 1  Hemophilia A or B. The gene that causes them is located on the X chromosome, so it can't be passed from father to son. 2  Hemophilia A or B almost always occurs in boys and is passed from mother to son through one of the mother's genes.