Introduction. The Void is a new 20-level-depth Ancient Dungeon of the Tower of Manacar dungeon series. The final bosses are Roland and Rochefort, which can be recruited at the final stage of the dungeon.All class is open to enter
STRAIGHT OUTTA THE VOID. Void team rekin the rift in League of Legends. •Lower your ping and get freelo: http://bit.ly/WTFresco. Lee Sin cosplay: http://youtu.be/P5Eyg22ND9k. This is the REAL void team, Malzahar/Kassadin aren't voidborn, but these 5 ugly fucks are! ---------------------------------------- ­­-----. •Twitch: http://www.twitch.tv/brofresco •Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/brofrescoyt.
5,047 pages on this wiki. Team VOID (pronounced void) is an OC team for Beacon Academy. It is formed by four students, all which we're created by Xengix008. These students we're selected after retrieving the Black Knight pieces and were then declared as team VOID having Violet Tygar as their Leader. Ignis: Third member of Team VOID, specializes in stealth and reconnaissance. Is mostly quiet and observant and also kinda inquisitive and odd, but among her teammates she speaks more often than usual (still not that much). Uses Rocket powered gun-shurikens as her weapons, partnered with Oneida.
According to Vel'Koz, the Void is a very dark place, both he and Cho'Gath said that the daylight in Runeterra is too strong for them. The lost city called Icathia seems to be connected to the Void, as some Voidborn are known to have appeared in the place and some mortals are known to have gained the Void's power in it. 1 Like Malzahar, the Prophet of the Void, their minds may be overwhelmed and they may become willing servants to the dark apocalyptic destinies they see emanating from the Abyss. 2  On Runeterra, these individuals are referred to as  The Cult of the Void .
The Void is a place between dimensions and between worlds. To some it is known as the Outside, to others it is the Unknown. To most, however, it is called the Void. It is a timeless place inhabited by various seemingly intelligent entities who, for reasons beyond human understanding, have the desire to gain entrance to and vitiate the worlds outside their realm. These creatures are called  Voidborn . 1 Like Malzahar, the Prophet of the Void, their minds may be overwhelmed and they may become willing servants to the dark apocalyptic destinies they see emanating from the Abyss. 2  On Runeterra, these individuals are referred to as  The Cult of the Void .
Welcome to the Forum Archive! Years of conversation fill a ton of digital pages, and we've kept all of it accessible to browse or copy over. Whether you're looking for reveal articles for older champions, or the first time that Rammus rolled into an OK thread, or anything in between, you can find it here. 