The Chinese Elm is a native of China, Korea and Japan. It was introduced into the United States. It has proven to be highly resistant to both the Dutch elm disease and the elm leaf beetle, both of which have been highly destructive to our native American Elm. This tree is highly variable in size. 
Chinese Elm Edit. For beginners to experts alike, the Chinese Elm is praised as one of the best, most versatile trees for bonsai cultvation. This Elm is native to East Asia, and in the wild can grow to 60 feet tall-outdoors, of course. The bark of the Chinese Elm bonsai tree is the most fascinating aspect of the tree. Depending on the species, some trees have smooth bark and some rough, almost cork-like looking bark. With the cracked type, it will become even more deeply fissured as the tree ages, giving it yet more enriched character.
The Chinese Elm is among the easiest trees to identify because of its mottled bark. It exfoliates bark constantly giving it a jigsaw puzzle look of brow, orange and olive. Has typical elm leave, small, about one inch long, half inch wide, uneven base, dark green on top, rough with usually a dozen or less pair of veins. 
• CHINESE ELM (noun). The noun CHINESE ELM has 2 senses: 1. fast-growing shrubby Asian tree naturalized in United States for shelter or ornament. 2. small fast-growing tree native to Asia; widely grown as shelterbelts and hedges. Familiarity information: CHINESE ELM used as a noun is rare.
The fast-growing Chinese elm (Ulmus parvifolia) has a striking, rounded canopy of dark green leaves. The tree also has unique bark, which is a mottled blend of flaky orange, green and gray pieces covering the orange-red inner bark. Dutch Elm Disease. Though they have resistance to Dutch elm disease, Chinese elms may still become stricken by it. The fungus responsible for the disease is spread by beetles tunneling beneath the tree's bark and first destroys upper branches. Next, the tree's leaves turn yellow and die during summer.
Alternative Views: The Chinese Elm Tree has slender, angular arching branches, and at maturity the tree sometimes reaches 60 feet in height and is one of the fastest growing trees in the United States. 
The Chinese elm of Ulmus pavifolia is an elm species native to Asia. It has been exported all over the world for use in landscaping, and as a result, it is extremely widespread. 
Elms are deciduous and semi-deciduous trees comprising the genus Ulmus in the plant family Ulmaceae. The genus first appeared in the Miocene geological period about 20 million years ago, originating in what is now central Asia. Elm phloem necrosis (elm yellows) is a disease of elm trees that is spread by leafhoppers or by root grafts. This very aggressive disease, with no known cure, occurs in the Eastern United States, southern Ontario in Canada, and Europe.
Many Chinese Elm are mis-labelled and sold as Zelkova, which is a Japanese tree with similar serrated leaves. Genuine Zelkovas are rarely seen as Bonsai in the UK. One of the reasons for this is the importing of Elms was banned to stop the spread of Dutch elm disease. Introduction. The Chinese Elm is one of the most common varieties of Bonsai. Elms grows fast making it easy to build up a dense foliage mass by pruning alone within a few years. With them being quite an adaptable species they are more tolerant to imperfect growing conditions