Body-Centered Psychotherapy describes therapeutic approaches that integrate a client’s physical body into the therapy process. Also referred to as Somatic Psychotherapy, this is a process that recognizes the intimate relationship between the human body and the psychological well-being of a person. The Hakomi Method is a system of Body-Centered Psychotherapy which integrates psychological, spiritual, and scientific principles. By combining the approaches of Body-Centered Psychotherapy, Mindfulness, and Western psychology, The Hakomi Method is able to treat the entire person–body, heart, and brain.
Body psychotherapy, also called body-oriented psychotherapy, is a branch of psychotherapy which applies basic principles of somatic psychology. Body psychotherapy and dance movement therapy have developed separately and are professionally distinguished, however they have significant common ground and shared principles including the importance of non-verbal therapeutic techniques and the development of body-focused awareness.
A review of body psychotherapy research finds there is a small but growing empirical evidence base about the outcomes of body psychotherapy, however it is weakened by the fragmentation of the field into different branches and schools. Body psychotherapy and dance movement therapy have developed separately and are professionally distinguished, however they have significant common ground and shared principles including the importance of non-verbal therapeutic techniques and the development of body-focused awareness.
The early 2000s saw a 'renaissance of body psychotherapy' which was part of a broader increased interest in the body and embodiment in psychology and other disciplines including philosophy, sociology, anthropology and cultural studies. Body psychotherapy and dance movement therapy have developed separately and are professionally distinguished, however they have significant common ground and shared principles including the importance of non-verbal therapeutic techniques and the development of body-focused awareness.
Embodiment Everywhere! online. Boulder, ongoing odymindpsych Click here for details. Body-Mind Psychotherapy (BMP) is a somatic-cognitive approach to psychotherapy developed by Susan Aposhyan which is uniquely focused on physiology, neuroscience, and early motor development. Mindfulness of body sensation is a primary tool. 
In alternative medicine, bodywork is any therapeutic or personal development technique that involves working with the human body in a form involving manipulative therapy, breath work, or energy medicine. 
That's what body psychotherapy is to the field of counseling. It's like taking pieces of what we know and pulling them together to generate a paradigm shift in thinking about therapy. If you really want to live a BIG life and you're wondering what your first step is, consider body psychotherapy. Mind-Body Psychotherapy and Your Health. An added benefit of mind-body psychotherapy--if what neuroscience suggests is correct and what our clinical work is showing--is that it will reinvigorate the autoimmune system.
Welcome to the Body Psychotherapist site. Body Psychotherapy is an approach which attempts to meet each person as a whole being. In simple terms a Body Psychotherapist will attend not only to your mind and your thinking, but also to your body, your feelings and your intuition. In short, all of you, including your conscious and unconscious mind. Body Psychotherapy understands all emotional and mental problems in the context of the body/mind as a whole system. For recurring problems to be resolved, mental insight often is not enough-something needs to happen that affects all levels of our being.