The Urogenital system is a combination of the two closely related systems-the excretory and the reproductive. The primitive kidney is built for osmoregulation and functions in marine, freshwater and land environments. Excretory System. The structures of the excretory system are paired kidneys and ureters from mesomere mesoderm, and an unpaired urinary bladder and urethra. Locate the kidneys on the dorsal part of the abdomen on either side of the vertebral column, embedded in fat. Note a small adrenal gland anterior to each kidney.
Female urogenital system. Numbers correspond to those in fig. 5.6.Structure FunctionOvary within ovarian bursa (1) Produces eggs and hormones to regulate estrus and pregnancyOvarian bursa (1) Surrounds the ovary and receives the egg after ovulationUterine tube (fig 5.5) Connects the ovarian bursa to the uterine horn. 3.2). In your study of the reproductive system make sure examine rats of both sexes, as you will beresponsible for them on the lab practical. Do careful dissections so you can exchange rats withstudents dissecting the opposite sex. Dissection of the Male System Sperm are produced in the paired testes of the male.
1 The urogenital system arises from intermediate mesoderm which forms a urogenital ridge on either side of the aorta. 2  The urogenital ridge develops into three sets of tubular nephric structures (from head to tail): the pronephros, the mesonephros, and the metanephros. 1 Descent of the testis is due to tethering of the testes to the anterior body wall by the gubernaculum. 2  With growth and elongation of the embryo coupled with shortening of the gubernaculum, the testes are pulled through the body wall, then the inguinal canal, and finally into the scrotum.
The male urogenital system consists of several parts, including the testes, epididymis, vas deferens, ejaculatory ducts, urethra, penis, prostate and accessory glands. Testes. The testis is a firm, mobile organ lying within the scrotum; the left testis lies slightly lower than the right. The testes are the primary reproductive organs (gonads) in the male, and are responsible for the production of sperm. The testis is covered by a capsule
The urinary and reproductive organs are developed from the intermediate mesoderm. The permanent organs of the adult are preceded by a set of structures that are purely embryonic, and that, with the exception of the ducts, disappear almost entirely before the end of fetal life. 
Overview The urogenital system arises during the fourth week of development from urogenital ridges in the intermediate mesoderm on each side of the primitive aorta. The nephrogenic ridge is the part of the urogenital ridge that forms the urinary system. The urinary bladder develops from the upper end of the urogenital sinus, which is continuous with the allantois. It is lined with endoderm. The lower ends of the metanephric ducts are incorporated into the wall of the urogenital sinus and form the trigone of the bladder.
Reproductive System. The male reproductive system consists of testes, ducts, glands, urethra and penis. The testes (from splanchnic hypomere mesoderm) are located in an external pouch, the scrotum, which is a projection from the peritoneal cavity. Scrotal sacs have descended outside the abdominal cavity to keep the sperm cool. Excretory System. The structures of the excretory system are paired kidneys and ureters from mesomere mesoderm, and an unpaired urinary bladder and urethra. Locate the kidneys on the dorsal part of the abdomen on either side of the vertebral column, embedded in fat. Note a small adrenal gland anterior to each kidney.
35 UROGENITAL SYSTEM The urogenital system includes both the reproductive organs and the excretory organs. They areconsidered together because they share some common ducts. 3.2). In your study of the reproductive system make sure examine rats of both sexes, as you will beresponsible for them on the lab practical. Do careful dissections so you can exchange rats withstudents dissecting the opposite sex. Dissection of the Male System Sperm are produced in the paired testes of the male.