Seen & Heard. What made you want to look up dorsad? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible). View Seen & Heard Highlights from Around the Site. 
Definition of DORSAL. 1. : relating to or situated near or on the back especially of an animal or of one of its parts. 2. : abaxial. 
Adj. 1. dorsal-belonging to or on or near the back or upper surface of an animal or organ or part; the dorsal fin is the vertical fin on the back of a fish and certain marine mammals. dorsal. adj. 1. (Anatomy) anatomy zoology relating to the back or spinal part of the body. Compare ventral 1.
dor•sal. 1. of, pertaining to, or situated at the back, or dorsum. 2. situated on or toward the upper side of the body, equivalent to the back in humans. 3. Bot. abaxial. 4. a dorsal structure. dorsal. adj. 1. (Anatomy) anatomy zoology relating to the back or spinal part of the body. Compare ventral 1.
(2) (zoology) Of, or pertaining to, the dorsum. (3) (botany) Of or on the surface away from the axis; abaxial. Supplement. Dorsal is an anatomical term used to refer to the position of a body part in an organism (plant or animal). It is used in contrast to the term ventral. In vertebrates, the dorsal part of the animal usually is where the backbone is located. Word origin: from Latin dorsālis, dorsum, back. 
2. Synonym(s): posterior (1). 3. In veterinary anatomy, pertaining to the back or upper surface of an animal. Often used to indicate the position of one structure relative to another; that is, nearer the back surface of the body. 4. Old term meaning thoracic, in a limited sense; for example, dorsal vertebrae. [Mediev. Synonym(s): posterior (2) . [Mediev. L. dorsalis, fr. dorsum, back]. at or towards the back of the body (opposite of ventral), referring to the embryological history of the surfaces. In the ' anatomical position ' the palms face forwards and dorsal applies to the back of the hands and arms.
Ventral rim of pygophore with the medial U-shaped emargination relatively shallow (vre), 1 + 1 flaps slightly bending. into the genital cup ([approximately equal to] Brepholoxa heidemanni Van Duzee); inferior folder of ventral rim developed in a medial bilobed projection (vrp), apparently an autapomorphy of Aleixus. 