Propagating coleus. Coleus can be started from seed, cuttings, transplants or potted plants purchased from the nursery. Just give them the basics and watch them take root. This is a plant that just wants to grow. Provide it with enough light, decent soil and enough water, and it's going to grow quickly, says Silk. Lightly tap off the excess hormone from the cutting and stick it into the hole, firming the soil around it. Place the pots with cuttings on a tray and water the tray, instead of the plants, so you don't wash away the rooting hormone. Then place the tray in the shade, keep it watered and wait for roots to form.
The coleus belongs to the Lamiaceae family of plants, often called the mint family of herbs. The coleus is indigenous to the plains of India and was traditionally used in folk medicine. These days, the coleus is prized as an ornamental plant around the world and is often grown as an ornamental garden herb. Coleus was traditionally prized for its roots in the folk medicine of India-a remedy prepared from the roots was used as a medicine in treating different disorders. Leaves of the coleus have also been used as a mild hallucinogenic drug in some places. Coleus herbs are also extensively used in the laboratory tests on the ability of these plants to perceive stress, and the effects of excess fluoride on the growth of the plants has been researched in recent years.
For their permanent home, a single Coleus plant will do well planted in a 6-8 pot, while three or four Coleus may be planted in a 10-12 (or larger) pot. All pots should have drainage holes. The soil mix should be high quality, airy, and well-drained, with lots of organic material. Coleus can also benefit from root stimulating products that add mycorrhizae to the soil. How to harden-off Coleus: After potting your Coleus, place them outdoors everyday for 3-4 hours in full or partial shade in a wind-sheltered location.
Our Coleus plants are ready to plant into pots and there is no need to remove the fiber sleeve as the roots will grow through it. Before planting in areas that receive a lot of sun or wind, make sure that your Coleus have a chance to develop a good root system. Coleus can also benefit from root stimulating products that add mycorrhizae to the soil. How to harden-off Coleus: After potting your Coleus, place them outdoors everyday for 3-4 hours in full or partial shade in a wind-sheltered location.
coleus Overview Information. Forskolin is a chemical found in the roots of the plant Plectranthus barbatus (Coleus forskohlii). This plant has been used since ancient times to treat heart disorders such as high blood pressure and chest pain (angina), as well as respiratory disorders such as asthma. 
Take cuttings from adult plants, or purchase them. To take a coleus cutting, choose a branch without a bloom or bud at the tip. Cut directly below a leaf node, so the cutting is 4–6 in. (10–15 cm) long. Cuttings are also available for purchase directly, and typically come with a small root ball already developed.
In recent classifications, the genus is no longer recognized, and the formerly included species are instead placed in the genera Plectranthus and Solenostemon. Because the type species, Coleus amboinicus (Plectranthus amboinicus) is now placed in Plectranthus, Coleus is regarded as a synonym of Plectranthus. 
Coleus is probably one of the easiest plants to grow and propagate. In fact, the plants root so easily that you can even start cuttings in a glass of water. They can also be propagated by seed indoors about 8-10 weeks prior to your last expected spring frost. 
The plant called the coleus-botanic name Coleus forskohlii-is an aromatic perennial plant about two feet tall when fully mature. Coleus possesses tuber like roots and a straight and erect stem with colorful leaves. The coleus has an aromatic fragrance resembling the scent of the camphor plant. Leaves of the coleus have also been used as a mild hallucinogenic drug in some places. Coleus herbs are also extensively used in the laboratory tests on the ability of these plants to perceive stress, and the effects of excess fluoride on the growth of the plants has been researched in recent years.
Grow them in water (optional). Most coleus cuttings will grow in a glass of water. Change the water every other day, keep the plant in bright, indirect sunlight, and transplant the coleus to a pot once you notice root growth. The soil method below works just as well. To take a coleus cutting, choose a branch without a bloom or bud at the tip. Cut directly below a leaf node, so the cutting is 4–6 in. (10–15 cm) long. Cuttings are also available for purchase directly, and typically come with a small root ball already developed.