If you will be taking an examination to test for prescription drugs, you will need to be conscious of how long it will take for your body to clear signs of your Vicodin usage. Urine examinations can still detect Vicodin in the system after 72 hours. Saliva tests have a much shorter range, only being able to detect the drug up to 6-12 hours after it has been consumed. Hair follicle tests are the most comprehensive form of drug testing
On average, most doctors agree that the half life of Vicodin is 4 hours. Vicodin (a combination of hydrocodone and paracetamol) is a short acting opioid analgesic, which means that you can feel the effects of Vicodin quickly (within 30 minutes to 1 hour of taking it) but do not last very long. Drug testing for Vicodin. Vicodin can be detected in the urine 2-4 days after you take it. If you are planning to take a drug test for Vicodin, you would be advised to be more conservative and wait the full 4 days before drug testing.
The more potent the Vicodin is, the longer it will stay in your system. Most Vicodin contains only 5 milligrams of hydrocodone, though some has up to 10 milligrams and is sold as “Vicodin HP”. Taking all of these factors into consideration, we can estimate how long vicodin will stay in your system. The common perception is that vicodin will only stay in your system for 24 to 48 hours, and this is true in some cases. 
While the effects of Vicodin last around 4 hours, traces of the drug can remain in your system for up to 72 hours. In some adults you can still find traces of the drug in your system after 5 days. Urine examinations can still detect Vicodin in the system after 72 hours. Saliva tests have a much shorter range, only being able to detect the drug up to 6-12 hours after it has been consumed.
Best Answer: Yes. You'll be fine. Standard drug tests test for opiates that break down into morphine. Heroin, opium, codeine, and morphine will show up on a standard test. Hydrocodone (vicodin) does not break down into morphine so it won't show up on a standard test. However, it is possible (though not normal) to specifically test for hydrocodone. These tests will only detect it in urine for 3-4 days. 
The ir is taken once per 4 -6 hours and can stay in your system for about a day but may be detected up to 72 hr later cr is taken every 12 hours and can stay in your system 3 -4 days. Less than a Day: The half-life of hydrocodone is about 5 hours. This means that the drug should be out of you system (by effect) within 15 hours. The drug will still be detectable within your urine for 48 hours or longer.
In about 8 hours, hydrocodone reaches its maximum concentration in the urine, after which, the levels begin to significantly decrease. In this case, it only depends on the quantity that a person takes, so that a urine test will detect hydrocodone. In general, it is detectable for about 6 to 24 hours after ingestion. 
Hydrocodone stays in your system for three to four days. If you are about to take a urine test, you should know that Hydrocodone will stay in your urine for that period of time. If your doctor has prescribed you this drug, you are probably well informed about its possible side effects. How long does Hydrocodone stay in your system for a urine test and what is Hydrocodone? Hydrocodone is a pain killer belonging to the group of active narcotics. It is used in treating pain