The study of carbon molecules is called organic chemistry, and there is a subset, biochemistry, that deals with the carbon molecules in living organisms. Even outside of the realm of biological life, carbon is important, especially to industry. Carbon is a critical component of fuel, such as gasoline or coal.
Carbon is the main constituent of all living cells. It has chemical properties that make it the most important biological element. For instance, it forms strong chemical bonds and can form single bonds with up to four other atoms. It can bond to itself. It can also form double and triple bonds.
1 Carbon is the basis for organic chemistry, as it occurs in all living organisms. 2  Carbon is a nonmetal that can bond with itself and many other chemical elements, forming nearly ten million compounds. 3  Elemental carbon can take the form of one of the hardest substances (diamond) or one of the softest (graphite).
All living things share life processes such as growth and reproduction. Most scientists use seven life processes or characteristics to determine whether something is living or non-living.
Living things need carbon in order to live, grow, and reproduce. Carbon is a finite resource that cycles through the Earth in many forms. This makes carbon available to living organisms and remains in balance with other chemical reactions in the atmosphere and in bodies of water like ponds and oceans.
One of the most important elements for all living things is carbon. Here are 10 interesting carbon facts for you: 1  Carbon is the basis for organic chemistry, as it occurs in all living organisms. 2  Carbon is a nonmetal that can bond with itself and many other chemical elements, forming nearly ten million compounds.
Let’s start with how living things get carbon. Plants use carbon dioxide for photosynthesis. By doing so, they remove inorganic carbon from the atmosphere and incorporate it into the plants’ tissues in the form of organic carbon (sugar and starch). Animals get carbon by eating plants or by eating other animals.
Able to form strong chemical bonds and multiple bonds. Carbon is the main constituent of all living cells. It has chemical properties that make it the most important biological element. For instance, it forms strong chemical bonds and can form single bonds with up to four other atoms. It can bond to itself. It can also form double and tr