Broccoli is native to the Mediterranean area. In Italian, brocco is the word for branch, so Broccoli means little branches in Italian. Though Broccoli is technically a plural word, and it is treated as a plural word in Italian, in English we treat it as a singular noun.
brecol, brécol brocol brócol: Nmnombre masculino sustantivo de genero (género, exclusivamente). masculino, televisor piso brocoli: Brócoli broculi bróculi nmnombre masculino (sustantivo, de). Genero género exclusivamente, masculino televisor piso they served broccoli peas. and potatoes with the roast chicken
Meaning: Branched green undeveloped flower heads. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (broccoli is a kind of...): cruciferous vegetable (a vegetable of the mustard family: especially mustard greens; various cabbages; broccoli; cauliflower; brussels sprouts).
broccoli nnoun: Refers to person, place, thing, quality, etc. uncountable (green vegetable). brecol, brécol brocol brócol: Nmnombre masculino sustantivo de genero (género, exclusivamente). masculino, televisor piso brocoli: Brócoli broculi bróculi nmnombre masculino (sustantivo, de). genero género exclusivamente masculino
→ بْرُكولي- نَوْعٌ مِن القَرنَبيط brokolice broccoli Brokkoli μπρόκολο brocoli brócoli parsakaali brocoli brokula broccolo ブロッコリー 브로콜리 broccoli brokkoli brokuły, brocolis brócolis brocolos brócolosброкколиbroccoliผักบ ร็อค โ คลี่ brokoli bong. bông cải xanh 西兰花
English-Spanish Spanish-English English-Italian Italian-English English-French French-English English definition English synonyms Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more
The noun BROCCOLI has 2 senses: 1. plant with dense clusters of tight green flower buds. 2. branched green undeveloped flower heads. Familiarity information: BROCCOLI used as a noun is rare.
Newsletter sign up. Broccoli is a member of the brassica clan, and so is related to cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc. What we know today as Broccoli -- the kind that is standard in North American and UK supermarkets -- is the Calabrese variety developed in Italy.