(Excerpts by Norman Brand). You have agreed to use mediation to attempt resolution of a workplace dispute, disagreement, grievance or complaint and are somewhat anxious and uncertain about what is involved. 
“My accountant suggested to use Credit Mediation for debt mediation as you helped many of his clients in the past. I’m so glad i did, you managed to save me over $40,000.00 on my credit cards and all within weeks of calling you. Thanks so much for all your help, your debt negotiators did a sterling job”. Australia’s Trusted Debt Relief Specialists. Cut your debts by 1/2 within 3 weeks. It will take us three weeks to change your life forever. We are Debt Negotiators that remove debt from your name and relieve stress from your life within three weeks.
We can do it in 3 weeks. Credit Mediation Service Pty Ltd are specialist negotiators who assist families and businesses with small and large debts. Our mission is to negotiate with your creditors to reduce your debts and relieve you from the pressures from your creditors. Our success rate is second to none, we can reduce your $10,000 credit card debt to $4,000 within three weeks of negotiations. Our commitment to you is that our service is absolutely free of charge if we are not successful in saving you money. Australia’s Trusted Debt Relief Specialists. Cut your debts by 1/2 within 3 weeks. It will take us three weeks to change your life forever. We are Debt Negotiators that remove debt from your name and relieve stress from your life within three weeks.
A great option is mediation, where you and the other side meet with a neutral person – called a mediator – who is specially trained to help people resolve their disputes without having to go in front of a judge. 1 Mediation is confidential and private, so what you say in mediation cannot be used against you in court later. 2  If you go in front of a judge, the judge has to apply the law to the facts of the case and take into account only those facts that the law considers relevant.
Debt mediation is a process that is intended to help consumers who are experiencing a cash flow problem that might only last a few months. An alternative arrangement affordable to the consumer and acceptable to the creditor is made on the consumer's behalf. 
BBB Accreditation. A BBB Accredited Business since. BBB has determined that CMI Credit Mediators, Inc. meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public. Factors that raised the rating for CMI Credit Mediators, Inc. include: 1  Length of time business has been operating. 2  Response to 10 complaint(s) filed against business. 3  Resolution of complaint(s) filed against business.
CMI Credit Mediators Inc. was founded in 1976 with a goal of providing superior customer service, results and integrity. To that formula we added knowledgeable, experienced personnel, a modern facility, advanced technology and innovative collection techniques. For those companies that have not experienced our honest and forthright style of business, some assurance may be in order. CMI Credit Mediators, Inc. is registered, licensed and/or bonded in the states that require registration, a commercial collection license and/or bond. State registration, licenses and bonds are important because where required, they are the law
You and the other person meet with a mediator. The mediator will facilitate a discussion between you and the other person in an attempt to resolve your dispute. Usually, mediation of a small claims dispute lasts anywhere between 30 minutes and 2 hours. Mediation may be free, or you may have to pay a small fee. Preparing for mediation Preparing for mediation is a lot like preparing to go to a court hearing. It is important to identify and organize the facts that are relevant to your dispute. 1 Mediation is confidential and private, so what you say in mediation cannot be used against you in court later. 2  If you go in front of a judge, the judge has to apply the law to the facts of the case and take into account only those facts that the law considers relevant.