The Incubation Period of Stomach Flu. To understand the differences in incubation periods for stomach flu, know that there are two viruses that cause stomach flu: norovirus and rotavirus. Norovirus. Norovirus is the most common cause of stomach flu. Most people are contagious from the moment that they become ill. Much of the symptoms start appearing within a day or three days of getting exposed; some people are known to be contagious up about two weeks after recovering from the illness
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. The contagious period — the time during which a sick person can give the illness to others — is slightly different for each virus. 1  Norovirus. 2  With norovirus — the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults and children — you're contagious from the moment you begin to feel ill.
In the case of a norovirus infection (including Norwalk virus), a person is not usually contagious during the stomach flu incubation period. People infected with norovirus gastroenteritis are usually contagious from the moment they begin feeling ill to at least 3 days after recovery. The incubation period of the stomach flu is the time from when you swallowed the viruses to when you start to feel sick. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week
For example, with a rotavirus infection, the person is contagious during the stomach flu incubation period. This person is also contagious while experiencing stomach flu symptoms. Once the diarrhea has ended, a person with rotavirus gastroenteritis is no longer contagious. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
When a person becomes infected with stomach flu, the virus begins to multiply within the small intestine. After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
With a norovirus infection (including Norwalk virus), a person is not usually contagious during the stomach flu incubation period. People infected with norovirus gastroenteritis are usually contagious from the moment they begin feeling ill to at least 3 days after recovery. This period between the transmission of the virus and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. (Click Stomach Flu Incubation Period for more information.).
After approximately 1 to 2 days (depending on the virus), symptoms can appear. This period between the transmission of the virus and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. (Click Stomach Flu Incubation Period for more information.).
After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. The incubation period of the stomach flu is the time from when you swallowed the viruses to when you start to feel sick. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week
Additional Notes on Incubation Period. Despite the length of the incubation period in rotavirus and norovirus, there is an average period of time that people will incubate the illness. Most people will harbor the stomach flu virus for as little as 4 hours to as long as 2 days. To understand the differences in incubation periods for stomach flu, know that there are two viruses that cause stomach flu: norovirus and rotavirus. Norovirus. Norovirus is the most common cause of stomach flu. Most people are contagious from the moment that they become ill.