A distal radius fracture is a common bone fracture of the radius in the forearm. Because of its proximity to the wrist joint, this injury is often called a wrist fracture. 
History. Patients with compartment syndrome will have an injury that is associated with limb edema. Patients who are awake and alert can accurately describe the pain and loss of function that is commonly associated with compartment syndromes (Table 2). Often, however, patients have altered sensorium. Motor weakness to the fingers may be present, but is often difficult to assess due to pain and swelling. A convex-shaped palm can be associated with compartment syndrome. Physical examination of the hand for compartment syndrome is very difficult.
a pathologic condition caused by elevation of tissue pressure within a closed compartment, resulting in the progressive development of compression and consequent reduction of blood supply. The compression may result from swelling within an overly restrictive dressing or cast or from nonexpansive muscle fascia. 1 Lateral compartment of leg. 2  lateral compartment of lower leg. 3  Lateral compartment of the leg. 4  lateral compartment syndrome. 5  lateral compliance. 6  lateral condensation method. 7  lateral condensation method. 8  lateral condensation method. 9  lateral condensation method. 10  lateral condylar inclination.
There are many muscles in the forearm. In the anterior compartment, they are split into three categories; superficial, intermediate and deep. In general, muscles in the anterior compartment of the forearm perform flexion at the wrist and fingers, and pronation. The superficial muscles in the anterior compartment are the flexor carpi ulnaris, palmaris longus, flexor carpi radialis and pronator teres. They all originate from a common tendon, which arises from the medial epicondyle of the humerus.
- exam: - variable weakness of toe extension; - pain on passive toe flexion; - diminished sensation in the first web space; - references: Chronic anterior-compartment syndrome of the leg. Results of treatment by fasciotomy. Management of chronic exertional anterior compartment syndrome of the lower extremity. This is similar in physiology and symptoms to the anterior compartment syndrome, with the exception that the pain is posterior to the tibia and markedly accentuated by passive dorsiflexion of the toes and ankle.
Elbow flexion and extension are painful, but are better tolerated than finger or wrist movement. When the dorsal compartment is involved, sensation to the hand and fingers is usually normal, because the posterior interosseous nerve has no sensory component. There often is weakness of thumb, finger, and wrist extension. Motor weakness to the fingers may be present, but is often difficult to assess due to pain and swelling. A convex-shaped palm can be associated with compartment syndrome. Physical examination of the hand for compartment syndrome is very difficult.
As the pressure in the abdominal compartment rises, blood flow to and from the abdominal organs is reduced. The liver, bowels, kidneys, and other organs may be injured or permanently damaged. Acute compartment syndrome usually develops over a few hours after a serious injury to an arm or leg. Compartment syndrome occurs when excessive pressure builds up inside an enclosed space in the body. Compartment syndrome usually results from bleeding or swelling after an injury. The dangerously high pressure in compartment syndrome impedes the flow of blood to and from the affected tissues.
- See: Compartment Syndrome. - Discussion: - type of forearm ischemic contracture resulting from brachial artery injury usually associated w/ supracondylar frx of humerus; - may see loss of motor & sensory function, however, classic involvment is w/ anterior interosseous branch of median nerve; - pathology: