Drink plenty of liquids. Drinking plenty of liquids, particularly water, will help to wash bacteria from your bladder and urinary tract. Drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry extracts may also help prevent urinary tract infections (UTIs) . However, you should avoid cranberry juice or extracts if you're taking warfarin, a medicine used to prevent blood clots.
In addition to preventing urinary tract infections, researchers point out that cranberry juice has properties that can help you fight other ailments as well. These include flu, gastric ulcers and even cavities in your teeth. Who knew that drinking this tasty juice could do your body so much good! After studying the effect that cranberries can have on the body, they found that people who drink cranberry juice have fewer urinary tract infections than people who don't drink it. Frequent and untreated urinary tract infections may lead to infection in the kidneys. Chronic kidney infection is a risk factor for chronic kidney disease. One way that cranberry juice helps prevent urinary tract infections is by making urine more acidic. Because bacteria grow best in alkaline environments, the acid helps keep bacteria from thriving.
How Cranberry Juice Treats Urinary Tract Infections. A mixture of cranberry juice, water, and sweeteners found in cranberry juice cocktail was used for the study because it is the most popular cranberry beverage. In the event of a urinary tract infection, antibiotics are the most common treatment. If left untreated, particularly in children, the elderly, or people with other chronic medical conditions, urinary tract infections can become more severe.
Camesano said people should not self-treat urinary tract infections, and anyone who suspects they have an infection should see a doctor, but drinking cranberry juice may be an easy, inexpensive way to help keep E. coli at bay. In the event of a urinary tract infection, antibiotics are the most common treatment. If left untreated, particularly in children, the elderly, or people with other chronic medical conditions, urinary tract infections can become more severe.
Cranberry Juice and Urinary Tract Infection. While cranberry juice won’t cure kidney disease, it has been found to prevent urinary tract infections, or UTIs. People have long thought that drinking cranberry juice would cure UTIs by changing the acidity of your urine.
Kidney Infection Symptoms and Risks. Kidney infections can cause serious damage to the kidney. Signs of kidney infection include pain in the back -- on either side of the body, with tenderness to the touch -- and nausea, vomiting, fever, chills and malaise. Reducing bacteria levels in the bladder with cranberry will not cure an existing kidney infection, although it may help to prevent recurrent UTIs. Kidney infections require longer therapy than bladder infections, often requiring a 14-day course of antibiotics, according to Dr. Neal Chamberalin of A.T. Still University.
RNY on 06/19/12 with 28057. Everyone says drink buckets of cranberry juice when you have a bladder/kidney infection. I bought the diet cranberry juice but now I'm thinking... no way is it the same as drinking real cranberry juice. 
Cranberry juice is well known as a natural treatment for bladder and urinary tract infections. Not only does cranberry juice kill the bacteria that cause the infections directly, it also makes the internal environment of the bladder more acidic. 
Aug. 23, 2010 -- Scientists report that within eight hours of drinking cranberry juice, the juice could help prevent bacteria from developing into an infection in the urinary tract. In the event of a urinary tract infection, antibiotics are the most common treatment. If left untreated, particularly in children, the elderly, or people with other chronic medical conditions, urinary tract infections can become more severe.