Welcome to the Department of Thoracic Medicine. The Department of Thoracic Medicine, established in 1976, is now the largest provider of public and private respiratory services in metropolitan and rural South Australia and in Alice Springs, Northern Territory. The Department of Thoracic Medicine works closely with various health units as well as professional and community organisations in South Australia, nationally and internationally to achieve its primary goals:
Aspiring thoracic medicine specialists can enter a 5-year to 6-year Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) straight from year 12 of secondary school, or earn a bachelor's degree and enroll in a graduate-entry medical school program, which takes four years. A thoracic surgeon may specialize in one region, such as the lungs, or in one type of surgery, such as coronary artery bypass. Both specialists and surgeons must complete 9-16 years of combined undergraduate education, medical education and medical residency. Source: *U.S.
The noun THORACIC MEDICINE has 1 sense: 1. the branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the chest. Familiarity information: THORACIC MEDICINE used as a noun is very rare. 
Thoracic medicine, also known as Chest medicine or Respiratory medicine, is a speciality of medicine which deals with investigation and treatment of diseases of the lungs. The Thoracic medicine department in The Mid Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust has the expertise to treat all common and rare respiratory diseases. Common respiratory diseases: 1  Asthma. 2  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 3  Pneumonia. 4  Lung cancer. 5  Benign and malignant pleural diseases. 6  Obstructive sleep apnoea. 7  Tuberculosi
Thoracic medicine. Thoracic or chest medicine looks after most types of diseases that involve the lung, the lining of the lung and sometimes the chest wall itself. This covers a vast range of diseases including: airways disease such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (. 
Thoracic medicine may be a surgical or nonsurgical medical specialty. Thoracic medicine specialists, or pulmonologists, manage non-surgical care of serious respiratory ailments like pneumonia, tuberculosis and chest infections. A thoracic surgeon may specialize in one region, such as the lungs, or in one type of surgery, such as coronary artery bypass. Both specialists and surgeons must complete 9-16 years of combined undergraduate education, medical education and medical residency. Source: *U.S.
Thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS) is a condition whereby symptoms are produced (such as numbness in fingers, pain in shoulder, arm, and neck) by compression of nerves and/or blood vessels in the upper chest. 1 Thoracic outlet syndrome is a condition whereby symptoms are produced from compression of nerves or blood vessels, or both, because of an inadequate passageway through an area (thoracic outlet) between the base of the neck and the armpit. 2  Thoracic outlet syndrome symptoms include. 3  neck pain, 4  shoulder pain,
thoracic medicine, the branch of medicine concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the structures and organs of the chest, especially the lungs. 1  Facebook. at Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, said: Before special targeted therapies patient survival was less than two to three years from diagnosis, but happily new treatments have been developed over the last 10 years such that prognosis is much improved for the majority of patients.