Report Abuse. Penguins are birds, not mammals. Many bird species are monogamous. This is rarer in mammals, but some species are monogamous, for example the grey wolf. Incidentally, there are a couple of mammals that lay eggs-the duck-billed platypus and the echidna.
Penguins form monogamous pairs for a breeding season, though the rate the same pair recouples varies drastically. Most penguins lay two eggs in a clutch, although the two largest species, the emperor and the king penguins, lay only one.
A pair of Magellanic penguins have remained faithful to each other for 16 years, according to researchers who have been monitoring the birds and have shown they can travel up to 10,000 miles a year in their search for food and love. Image 1 of 4.
Wikimedia/David. A pair of Magellanic penguins have remained faithful to each other for 16 years, according to researchers who have been monitoring the birds and have shown they can travel up to 10,000 miles a year in their search for food and love.
Most penguin species are monogamous (one male breeds with one female during a mating season); however, research has shown that some females may have one to three partners in one season and some males may have one or two partners. Mate selection is up to the female, and it is the females that compete for the males. In some penguin species, a female selects the same male from the preceding season to mate with. Adelie adélie penguins have been documented-re pairing with the previous'year s mate62 % of the. time
African and Magellanic, Gentoo and Royal penguins are examples of monogamous penguin species. A very interesting fact in the mating of the penguins is that both, male and female, are involved in the preparation of the nest and the care of the chicks, behavior that is not seen in many species of animals.
Most penguins are monogamous. This means that male and female pairs will mate exclusively with each other for the duration of mating season. In many cases, the male and female will continue to mate with each other for most of their lives.