Here's my experience: In general, the commission/fee paid to a recruiter was 20-25% of the annual salary of the new hire, payable pretty much as soon as the person started work. If the new hire left before 3 months, then most reputable agencies/recruiters would give you a discounted refund on the fee. 
While good recruiters build close relationships with their candidates, recruiting fees are paid by the employer. When a legal employer hires a candidate that was first introduced by a recruiter, the search firm is entitled to a fee (generally 25% of the first-year salary). 
It depends. If they are an internal recruiter they typically get an hourly rate and maybe bonuses. If they work for an agency they typically get a base salary and then a commission on the fees (Depending on if you brought in the client and the candidate). The 25-30% of revenue estimate is also probably a bit lower than the industry expectation, in Sydney at least-I used to hear the rule of thumb that recruiters should earn a third of their revenue - but I was happy with my income, and with the company I was working for, for the whole seven years I worked there.
Is the fee paid after the employee stays for a set period such as 3 months or is it paid on hire date? --JM. Dear JM, Recruiters typically charge anywhere from 20 to 35 percent of the starting salary-and in today's job market, employers are glad to pay it for good recruits. But if you're just starting out in this business, don't order your Mercedes too soon. 
1 Commission. 2  A commission is a payment arrangement where employees receive a percentage of sales they bring to your company. 3  Whether you pay an employee a commission in addition to a salary or just a straight commission depends on the nature and demands of the job. It’s no surprise that the average bonus for a recruiter and recruiting manager depends widely on experience on geography as one would expect. Experienced recruiters based on the national average bonus as much as $10,500 per year versus a recruiting manager bonus of $20,500.
Reputation: 1834. It varies from perm placement to contract. Usually direct placement recruiters will get a percentage of the percentage the company gets (100k salary, agency gets 20%, 20k and recruiter gets 40% of 20k or 8k). The one thing though is that the higher commissioned direct placement people are usually paid on a draw hence the higher commission. Often it is equal to a months pay of what ever the job is. For upper level it could be more. Sometimes the company hiring pays the fee. Usually if the job does not work out in the first couple of months you get some of the money back.
(This is 1/3 of some percentage of what the successful candidate's starting salary is likely to be-eg. starting salary $150,000, fee of 25% = $37,500 total fee = $12,500 per installment). The 25-30% of revenue estimate is also probably a bit lower than the industry expectation, in Sydney at least-I used to hear the rule of thumb that recruiters should earn a third of their revenue - but I was happy with my income, and with the company I was working for, for the whole seven years I worked there.
That said, many contingency recruiters form networks or alliances to cooperate with each other and do splits where they share job listings with one side, taking 50 percent of the commission for getting the listing and another side taking 50 percent for finding the successful candidate. Unfortunately, too many people have misconceptions about what they do, and how to motivate them to be your advocate. It's time to clear the air and bust some of the myths. 1. MYTH: The Recruiter's Job is to Help a Job Hunter Find Employment. FACT: Recruiters work for employers, not job hunters.
Working with a recruiter can be a great benefit in your job hunt, but only if you understand their role in the hiring process. Unfortunately, too many people have misconceptions about what they do, and how to motivate them to be your advocate. It's time to clear the air and bust some of the myths. 1. MYTH: The Recruiter's Job is to Help a Job Hunter Find Employment. FACT: Recruiters work for employers, not job hunters.