tert-Butyl alcohol (TBA) , or 2-methylpropan-2-ol (2M2P), is the simplest tertiary alcohol. It is one of the four isomers of butanol. tert-Butyl alcohol is a clear liquid (or a colorless solid, depending on the ambient temperature) with a camphor-like odor. Step 3. The overall reaction, therefore, is: Because tert-butyl alcohol is a tertiary alcohol, the relative stability of the tert-butyl carbocation in the Step 2 allows the S N 1 mechanism to be followed.
The TERT gene provides instructions for making one component of an enzyme called telomerase. Telomerase maintains structures called telomeres, which are composed of repeated segments of DNA found at the ends of chromosomes. Telomeres protect chromosomes from abnormally sticking together or breaking down (degrading). Mutations in the TERT gene reduce or eliminate the function of telomerase, which allows telomeres to become abnormally short as cells divide. The shortened telomeres likely trigger cells that divide rapidly, such as cells that line the inside of the lungs, to stop dividing or to die prematurely.
Best Answer: tert is short for tertiary. tert for organic chemistry is specifically referring to a carbon that is already bonded to 3 other carbon atoms. You could also think of it as a third degree carbon but no one calls it that, I've no idea why. Report Abuse. In this case, tert-is a specific type of group. A tert-butyl group is a-C(CH3)3 group; the tert is necessary to distinguish between the 4 different arrangements of a 4-carbon side chain.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Telomerase reverse transcriptase (abbreviated to TERT, or hTERT in humans) is a catalytic subunit of the enzyme telomerase, which, together with the telomerase RNA component (TERC), comprises the most important unit of the telomerase complex. Telomerases are part of a distinct subgroup of RNA-dependent polymerases. Function [edit]. Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein polymerase that maintains telomere ends by addition of the telomere repeat TTAGGG. The enzyme consists of a protein component with reverse transcriptase activity, encoded by this gene, and an RNA component that serves as a template for the telomere repeat.
The component produced from the TERT gene is known as hTERT. The other component is produced from a gene called TERC and is known as hTR. The hTR component provides a template for creating the repeated sequence of DNA that telomerase adds to the ends of chromosomes. Mutations in the TERT gene reduce or eliminate the function of telomerase, which allows telomeres to become abnormally short as cells divide. The shortened telomeres likely trigger cells that divide rapidly, such as cells that line the inside of the lungs, to stop dividing or to die prematurely.
cancers-increased risk from variations of the TERT gene. Mutations in the TERT gene have been associated with an increased risk of various cancers, in particular a type of skin cancer called melanoma and a form of blood cancer called acute myeloid leukemia. Researchers suggest that these mutations may impair telomere maintenance and result in DNA damage. Mutations in the TERT gene reduce or eliminate the function of telomerase, which allows telomeres to become abnormally short as cells divide. The shortened telomeres likely trigger cells that divide rapidly, such as cells that line the inside of the lungs, to stop dividing or to die prematurely.
As a tertiary alcohol, tert-butyl alcohol is more stable to oxidation and less reactive than the other isomers of butanol. When tert-butyl alcohol is deprotonated with a strong base, the product is an alkoxide anion. In this case, it is tert-butoxide. Step 3. The overall reaction, therefore, is: Because tert-butyl alcohol is a tertiary alcohol, the relative stability of the tert-butyl carbocation in the Step 2 allows the S N 1 mechanism to be followed.