Size will have a significant bearing on the overall cost of your conservatory. It stands to reason that one measuring 3 metres by 2 metres will be cheaper to construct than a conservatory measuring 5 metres by 4 metres. This is because a whole range of different factors need to be borne in mind before you can hope to get an accurate cost on the type of conservatory you want. Conservatory prices vary, as there are a wealth of styles and qualities to choose from.
1 Evis Build put the average price of conservatories at £9,000; this will get you a uPVC, lean-to conservatory with a 16 square metre floor area and low-emissivity glazing. 2  A similar conservatory with a more elaborate Edwardian roof will cost around £11,000. Check out the average price for a conservatory made of uPVC: 1  A 3m x 3m lean-to, uPVC conservatory with a flat roof costs around £6,500. 2  A 3m x 3m Victorian or Edwardian uPVC conservatory will cost between £7,500 and £7,900.
UK Conservatory Prices. If you are interested in conservatory UK prices, take a look at the following list: 1  According to our home renovation cost survey, the average cost of buying and installing a conservatory is £6,700. 2  What price put the average price of supplying and building a 3 metres (m) x 3.5m Edwardian conservatory at £8,600. Check out the average price for a conservatory made of uPVC: 1  A 3m x 3m lean-to, uPVC conservatory with a flat roof costs around £6,500. 2  A 3m x 3m Victorian or Edwardian uPVC conservatory will cost between £7,500 and £7,900.
Conservatory Average Cost. The cost of a conservatory varies widely depending on the design, local labor and material costs, and other factors. Before you begin conservatory construction, check with the local planning department to find out what permits you may need. 1  Conservatory costs start at around $7,500 to $15,000. 2  The average cost of a conservatory is $10,000 to $30,000. 3  A conservatory could cost as much as $40,000 to $80,000 or more
The average cost of Orangeries ranges between £20,000 and £50,0000, again this is all down to a number of factors. People deciding between a conservatory or an orangery should take note of the price differences due to the roof and overall structure. 
The average price being quoted by those debating this research on Twitter was around the £16-£17k mark, with things like Loggia columns, LivinRoom details etc on top of that. This average price quoted by Zopa is nowhere near what people can expect to pay for even a small conservatory. It’s worth pointing out at this point that my last full national average prices survey results showed that the average price for an average sized new conservatory (3m x 4m) was over £11,000.
The average quote for a typical conservatory tends to be around the £5,000 and up mark. With that said though it is quite possible to get one for half that price, particularly if you want something basic and you are intending to erect it on your own. This is because a whole range of different factors need to be borne in mind before you can hope to get an accurate cost on the type of conservatory you want. Conservatory prices vary, as there are a wealth of styles and qualities to choose from.
All home improvements require thorough research and a conservatory is no different. It can be hard to find out the average cost of a conservatory because prices can vary greatly.The average cost of a conservatory is dependent on many factors. The shape,size and style all contribute towards your final installation cost. Your conservatory cost can even depend on the company you choose. Our conservatory cost calculator features a wide range of conservatory styles and designs, allowing you to get instant online costs for your favourite conservatories. Our conservatory cost calculator was built and designed to help customers like you, make a well informed decision on their conservatory.
Unfortunately, it is not a case of one price for all. Some cost as little as £5000. And other can cost upwards of £25000. Each conservatory will concur different costs. Conservatory costs in 2015 are likely to depend on a number of factors. This includes size, design, build and energy efficiency. Consider your conservatory requirements. 