Acriflavine is now used primarily as a topical antiseptic, and is often mixed with proflavine for commercial preparations. In the aquarium hobby it is used to treat a variety of ailments from fungal infections in fish to disinfecting and treating open wounds. Diseases that acriflavine is used for either prevention or treatment of include: 1  Ooedinium oödinium-Pilularis also known As, velvet this is actually caused by a. 2  Parasite flavobacterium-Columnare known As columnaris Or-Cotton mouth.  disease
Acriflavine is a controlled substance in Australia and dependent on situation, is considered either a Schedule 5 (Caution) or Schedule 7 (Dangerous Poison) substance. The use, storage and preparation of the chemical is subject to strict state and territory laws. It is a dye and it stains the skin and may irritate. Commercial preparations are often mixtures with proflavine. It is known by a variety of commercial names. Acriflavine was developed in 1912 by Paul Ehrlich, a German medical researcher, and was used during the First World War against sleeping sickness.
Medical Definition of ACRIFLAVINE. : a yellow acridine dye C14H14N3Cl obtained by methylation of proflavine as red crystals or usually in admixture with proflavine as a deep orange powder and used often in the form of its reddish brown hydrochloride as an antiseptic especially for wounds. Definition of ACRIFLAVINE. : a yellow dye C14H14N3Cl used as an antiseptic especially for wounds. ADVERTISEMENT.
From Wikipedia: Acriflavine is a topical antiseptic. It has the form of an orange or brown powder. It may be harmful in the eyes or if inhaled. It is a dye and it stains the … skin and may irritate. 
Acriflavine-MS. Acriflavine-MS is an effective preventative and treatment for the control of Oodinium (Velvet) in marine and freshwater aquariums. Acriflavine-MS is also used to prevent bacterial egg infections and to treat open wounds, as well as various external protozoan and bacterial infections. For marine or freshwater aquarium use. Effective parasitic and bacterial treatment. For freshwater or marine aquarium use. Pre-mixed and ready to use.
Acriflavine is a topical antiseptic. It has the form of an orange or brown powder. It may be harmful in the eyes or if inhaled. It is a dye and it stains the skin and may irritate. Commercial preparations are often mixtures with proflavine. It is known under a variety of names (trypaflavine). Acriflavine may also be used as an alternative to Malachite Green when it is known that certain species of fish may be sensitive (small Characins). Typical found in aquarium treatment bottles as acriflavine chloride in 0.3% solution. 1  Rumoured to stop the spread of viral disease Lymphocystis.
Acriflavine is a topical antiseptic. It has the form of an orange or brown powder. It may be harmful in the eyes or if inhaled. It is a dye and it stains the skin and may irritate. Commercial preparations are often mixtures with proflavine. It is known by a variety of commercial names. Acriflavine was developed in 1912 by Paul Ehrlich, a German medical researcher, and was used during the First World War against sleeping sickness.
acriflavine. n. 1. (Pharmacology) a brownish or orange-red powder used in medicine as an antiseptic and disinfectant. 
From Wikipedia: Acriflavine is a topical antiseptic. It has the form of an orange or brown powder. It may be harmful in the eyes or if inhaled. It is a dye and it stains the skin and may irritate. Commercial preparations are often mixtures with proflavine. It is known by a variety of commercial names. 