The Yorkie Poo, also called Yoodle, Yorkapoo or Yorkerpoo, is a cross between a Poodle and a Yorkshire Terrier (Yorkie) . It is a small dog — most are just seven to ten inches in height, weighing in at around ten pounds (5 Kgs). Their typical lifespan ranges between 12 and 15 years. 
Usually, when you get a mix with a poodle, they are hypoallergenic. But sometimes when you get a dog that's mixed with a poodle, th … ere is too much of the other dog that you want to breed with the poodles, and you may have allergies. I have two pure poodles and poodles are just great. A poodle-havanese cross is called a Havapoo =) Raiwolf: A poodle-havanese cross is usually reffered to as a Poovanese (no joke), see the related link I've added. 1 person found this useful.
A Poodle and Chihuahua mix is most commonly called a Chi-Poo, which can also be spelt as Chipoo and Chi Poo. It is also known as the Wapoo, Poochi, Poo-Chi and Choodle. A poodle-havanese cross is called a Havapoo =) Raiwolf: A poodle-havanese cross is usually reffered to as a Poovanese (no joke), see the related link I've added. 1 person found this useful.
A Poodle and Chihuahua mix is most commonly called a Chi-Poo, which can also be spelt as Chipoo and Chi Poo. It is also known as the Wapoo, Poochi, Poo-Chi and Choodle. The … Chi-Poo is not a pedigree dog breed, but a designer dog, which is a crossbreed that is given a breed name just like a pedigree dog breed. When I recently purchased my westie/yorkie mix the breeder called her a Workie   When I recently purchased my westie/yorkie mix the breeder called her a Workie   N … ope-A Yorkie Westie mix/hybrid is called a Fourche Terrier.. Mine looks like a very small Cairn terrier (i.e., a smaller version of Toto).
One of the most popular designer breeds that you can find today are Yorkie Poodle mix puppies, often called the Yorkie Poo. Choosing to take home a mixed breed, or designer dog, can bring the best of two worlds together for you and your family. Yorkiepoo (Yorkipoo) Puppy Quick Stats. » A combination of a Yorkshire Terrier and a Poodle. » Recognized as an official mixed breed by the American Canine Hybrid Club (ACHC), Designer Dogs Kennel Club (DDKC), International Designer Canine Registry (IDCR) and Designer Breed Registry (DBR).
A designer dog is a hybrid or a crossbreed between two different breeds where the percentage of the breed is known, unknown breeds or mixtures are called mixed breeds. Many people with allergies prefer poodles and poodle mixes as their fur is more hypoallergenic than a standard breed dog. Poodle Mix Breeds and Names. Here I have compiled a large list of Poodle Mix and also known as Designer Poodles and Poodle Hybrids with the given names to each of these breeds.
If he is a mix between a standard poodle and a little terrier he could have grown that big. I just bet he was a mix with a poodle and a mutt or she would have told you which terrier it was. There is definitely poodle in there. You can have his DNA checked if you are really curious, by the way. It costs about $200through your veterinarian. What makes you think this dog has terrier in it? Was it a rescue & that is what the pup was described as, off the streets & best guess? How old, weight & more pictures. What makes it not a poorly breed poodle. There are & I hate to call them breeders BUT people breeding for a teddy bear or baby doll face on poodles.
Poodle Mix and Poodle Hybrid,are probably the most common designer dogs in America. There is a new trend, called designer dogs. Poodle Mix Breeds and Names. Here I have compiled a large list of Poodle Mix and also known as Designer Poodles and Poodle Hybrids with the given names to each of these breeds.
A Rattle is a mix between a Rat Terrier and a Poodle. They come in a variety of colors and their coats can range from wavy to straight. Coat is medium length and can take on the wavy coat of the Poodle, or the straight coat of the Rat Terrier. *Many people with allergies prefer a poodle mix dog as their fur is more hypoallergenic than most dogs (a characteristic inherited from the Poodle).
The poodle is a group of formal dog breeds, the Standard Poodle, Miniature Poodle and Toy Poodle (one registry organisation also recognizes a Medium Poodle variety, between Standard and Miniature), with many coat colors. Originally bred in Germany as a type of water dog, the breed was standardized in France. 