The epidermis cells (from the Greek επίδερμίδα, meaning over-skin) is a single-layer of cells that covers the leaves, flowers, roots and stems of plants. It forms a boundary between the plant and the external environment. The epidermis is the outermost cell layer of the primary plant body. In some older works the cells of the leaf epidermis have been regarded as specialised parenchyma cells, but the established modern preference has long been to classify the epidermis as dermal tissue, whereas parenchyma is classified as ground tissue.
A Closer Look at Dermal Tissue. Dermal tissue is found covering the younger primary parts of a plant. These include leaves, roots, stems, flowers, fruits and seeds. Plant parts that become woody no longer have dermal tissue as their outer layer, because it is replaced by periderm or cork. Probably not. Skin is clearly an important and well-known part of a person or animal. But surprisingly, plants have an outer layer known as dermal tissue that is essentially their skin. This layer is also called the epidermis, which you may notice has the same name as our very own outer layer.
The shoot tissues arise from the shoot apical meristem as dermal tissue, ground tissue, and vascular tissue. Secondary meristems (vascular cambium and cork cambium) then add girth to the plant by adding secondary xylem, phloem, and cork. Top of Page. Shoot Apical Meristem: the apical meristem includes the a group of dividing cells that give rise to three primary meristematic tissues, protoderm, ground meristem, and procambium.
Lesson Summary. The dermal tissue of a plant is the extremely thin outer layer of the soft parts of a plant. It is also known as the epidermis. Epidermal cells are flattened and very close together. Stomata are found in the dermal tissue. These are tiny pores flanked by two guard cells. Probably not. Skin is clearly an important and well-known part of a person or animal. But surprisingly, plants have an outer layer known as dermal tissue that is essentially their skin. This layer is also called the epidermis, which you may notice has the same name as our very own outer layer.
Dermal Tissue System: The dermal tissue system makes up the outside covering of the plant. This system consists of the epidermis and the periderm. Epidermis: The epidermis consists of a single layer of cells that covers the majority of young plants. The epidermis is present throughout the life of plants that exhibit only primary growth. Primary growth refers to cells and tissues that originate from the apical meristems. Parenchyma Tissue: The most abundant, diverse, and versatile cells in a plant are found in the parenchyma tissue. Parenchyma cells have thin cell walls, and their structure is somewhat non-descript, but tend to be more or less isodiametric (equal diameters in all directions).
Concept 4: Dermal Tissues. The dermal tissue system protects the soft tissues of plants and controls interactions with the plants' surroundings. The epidermis is a dermal tissue that is usually a single layer of cells covering the younger parts of a plant. It secretes a waxy layer called the cuticle that inhibits water loss. 
The periderm is the secondary protective (dermal) tissue that replaces the epidermis during growth in thickness of stems and roots of gymnosperms and dicotyledons (i.e. , secondary growth). Unlike typical epidermis, the periderm is a multilayered tissue system, the bulk of which usually constitutes the cork, or phellem. There are, however, some exceptions to this inasmuch as some other structures (e.g. potato skin and apple peel) are also periderm.
There are also two meristems associated with vascular tissue: the vascular cambium and the cork cambium. All the vascular tissues within a particular plant together constitute the vascular tissue system of that plant. The cells in vascular tissue are typically long and slender. Since the xylem and phloem function in the conduction of water, minerals, and nutrients throughout the plant, it is not surprising that their form should be similar to pipes.
Like other organisms, plant cells are grouped together into various tissues. These tissues can be simple, consisting of a single cell type, or complex, consisting of more than one cell type. Above and beyond tissues, plants also have a higher level of structure called plant tissue systems. There are three types of tissue systems: dermal tissue, vascular tissue, and ground tissue systems. The dermal tissue system consists of the epidermis and the periderm. The epidermis is generally a single layer of closely packed cells. It both covers and protects the plant. It can be thought of as the plant's skin.. Depending on the part of the plant that it covers, the dermal tissue system can be specialized to a certain extent.