The average GPA at Harvard is 4.04. This makes Harvard Extremely Competitive for GPAs. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 4.04, Harvard requires you to be at the top of your class. You'll need nearly straight A's in all your classes to compete with other applicants. There are three critical numbers when considering your admissions chances: ACT scores, GPA, and acceptance rate. All these combine to tell you what you scores are required to get into Harvard College.
Estimated GPA Requirements. The average high school GPA of the admitted freshman class at Harvard University was 4.04 on the 4.0 scale indicating that primarily A students are accepted and ultimately attend. Likewise, reporting indicates the school consistently takes SAT composite scores down to 2120 on a 2400 scale, below which admission should be considered a reach. We estimate some students will be accepted with SAT's as low as 1980. The estimated average SAT composite for admitted freshman is 2260 out of 2400.
The acceptance rate at Harvard is 6% . For every 100 applicants, only 6 are admitted. This means the school is extremely selective. Meeting their GPA requirements and SAT/ACT requirements is very important to getting past their first round of filters and proving your academic preparation. SAT and ACT Requirements. Each school has different requirements for standardized testing. Most schools require the SAT or ACT, and many also require SAT subject tests. You must take either the SAT or ACT to submit an application to Harvard.
Many students with perfect GPAs and test scores in the top 1% still get rejected from Harvard. Even the most qualified students should consider Harvard a reach school. At the same time, don't give up hope of getting into Harvard if you don't have a 4.0 and a 2400 on the SAT. Harvard has holistic admissions, and they are looking for students who bring to campus more than good grades and test scores. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students, and you can see that most students who got into Harvard had 4.0 GPAs, SAT scores (CR+M+W) above 2100, and ACT composite scores above 30.
Certainly it helps to have a perfect GPA and test scores, however if this is all you possess it is unlikely that you will gain admission. I gained admission to the Harvard Masters of Public Health program after completing my MD from a state university. You can have a perfect GPA but if you cannot demonstrate how a Harvard education is going to further help your goals then your admission is less likely than someone with a sub-par GPA but a crystal clear and cohesive plan for how a Harvard education is going to help them.
The average GPA at Harvard is 4.04. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 4.04, Harvard requires you to be at the top of your class. You'll need nearly straight A's in all your classes to compete with other applicants. Furthermore, you should be taking hard classes-AP or IB courses-to show that college-level academics is a breeze. SAT and ACT Requirements. Each school has different requirements for standardized testing. Most schools require the SAT or ACT, and many also require SAT subject tests. You must take either the SAT or ACT to submit an application to Harvard.
If your GPA is lower than this, you need to compensate with a higher SAT/ACT score. For a school as selective as Harvard, you'll also need to impress them with the rest of your application. We'll cover those details next. SAT and ACT Requirements. Each school has different requirements for standardized testing. Most schools require the SAT or ACT, and many also require SAT subject tests. You must take either the SAT or ACT to submit an application to Harvard.
Harvard University does not state a specific GPA that you need in order to enter into their Masters of Public Health program, however it certainly will play a role in the admissions decision. You can have a perfect GPA but if you cannot demonstrate how a Harvard education is going to further help your goals then your admission is less likely than someone with a sub-par GPA but a crystal clear and cohesive plan for how a Harvard education is going to help them.
Discussion of Harvard's Admissions Standards: With a single-digit acceptance rate, Harvard University is the most selective university in the United States. This member of the Ivy League sends out a remarkable number of rejection letters. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students, and you can see that most students who got into Harvard had 4.0 GPAs, SAT scores (CR+M+W) above 2100, and ACT composite scores above 30.