For Inland salt marshes which are not created nor maintained by seawater and the tides, see Inland salt marsh. It is dominated by dense stands of salt-tolerant plants such as herbs, grasses, or low shrubs. These plants are terrestrial in origin and are essential to the stability of the salt marsh in trapping and binding sediments. Salt marshes play a large role in the aquatic food web and the delivery of nutrients to coastal waters. They also support terrestrial animals and provide coastal protection
Salt marsh plants cannot grow where waves are strong, but they thrive along low-energy coasts. They also occur in areas called estuaries, where freshwater from the land mixes with sea water. A distinctive feature of salt marshes is the color-the plants are various shades of gray, brown, and green. Salt marshes are composed of a variety of plants: rushes, sedges, and grasses. Algae are also an important food source in salt marshes. Florida s Salt Marshes Salt marshes form along the margins of many north Florida estuaries. Gulf coast salt marshes occur along low energy shorelines, at the mouth of rivers, and in bays, bayous, and sounds.
All are tolerant of the salt in sea spray. Salt marshes are important for many reasons. Hidden within the tangle of salt marsh plants are animals in various stages of life. Animals can hide from predators in marsh vegetation, because the shallow brackish area physically excludes larger fish. Algae are also an important food source in salt marshes. Florida s Salt Marshes Salt marshes form along the margins of many north Florida estuaries. Gulf coast salt marshes occur along low energy shorelines, at the mouth of rivers, and in bays, bayous, and sounds.
Salt marshes are an area between land and brackish water that are  known to flood. Salt marshes collect sediments and nutrients that  are vital to the ecosystem. A salt marsh is a type of marsh that is between land and salty water. It has very shallow water and gets a lot of sunlight.
WMB-CP-07 2004 Functions and Values of a Salt Marsh Salt marshes are important transitional habitat between the ocean and the land; they are estuaries where fresh and salt water mix. Salt marsh plants (halophytes) are salt tolerant and adapted to water levels that fluctuate with the tide. Thus, the salt marsh provides the food for larger fish that are important to the New England fishing industry. Over the past decade, fishery stocks in New England have seriously declined. There is evidence that restoring marshes, along with improved fishing management, will help to restore these fish stocks.
Salt marsh during low tide, mean low tide, high tide and very high tide (spring tide). It is dominated by dense stands of salt-tolerant plants such as herbs, grasses, or low shrubs. These plants are terrestrial in origin and are essential to the stability of the salt marsh in trapping and binding sediments. Salt marshes play a large role in the aquatic food web and the delivery of nutrients to coastal waters. They also support terrestrial animals and provide coastal protection
Salt marshes are important because they provide flood control and critical habitat for fish, migratory birds, and other wildlife. Some of the activities the students and teachers have been a part of include: 1  Monitoring the growth of common reed in salt marshes. 
The coast wetlands are called salt marshes. They contain a variety  fo plants including rushes, cord grasses, sawgrass, sea lavendar,  sea mallow, salt marsh aster, other fr … esh water species have  adapted to the salt environment. Shrubs include the marsh elder and  mangrove trees. Answered. A salt marsh is a type of marsh that is between land and salty water. It has very shallow water and gets a lot of sunlight.