AsiaKuwait is a small country located on the Persian Gulf in the continent of Asia. First of all it is spelled Kuwait. It is located in the continent Asia. It next to Iraq … and is an Arabian country. Kuwait is located in the gulf area, in Asia in the middle east    Arabian gulf    north of Saudi Arabia and south of Iraq The Answer is ASIA.
Jordan Jordan is located in the Middle East. It is bound by Syria to the north, Iraq to the northeast, Saudi Arabia to the east and south as well as Israel to the west.... Kuwait Kuwait is located in the northeastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula and at the head of the Persian Gulf. It is bound by Iraq to the north and west, Saudi Arabia to the south and the Persian Gulf to the east.... It is bound by the Red Sea to the west, Egypt and Jordan to the northeast, Iraq and Kuwait to the north, the Persian Gulf, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates to the east, Oman to the southeast and south as well as Yemen to the south and southwest.... Syria Syria
Kuwait /kuːˈweɪt/ (Arabic: دولة الكويت ‎ Dawlat al-Kuwait), officially the State of Kuwait, is a country in Western Asia. Situated in the northern edge of Eastern Arabia at the tip of the Persian Gulf, it shares borders with Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Kuwait City is located on Kuwait Bay, a natural deep-water harbor. 90% of Kuwait's population live within the Kuwait Bay coast. The country is generally low lying, with the highest point being 306 m (1,004 ft) above sea-level.
Kuwait is located at the far northwestern corner of the Persian Gulf. It is a small nation of 17,820 square kilometers, making it just a little smaller than the U.S. state of New Jersey. At its most distant points, it is about 200 kilometers north to south, and 170 kilometers east to west. 
KUWAIT is a country itself and it is located under IRAQ and above KINGDOM SAUDI ARABIA and it lies near the Persian gulf. Kuwait is located in the gulf area, in Asia in the middle east    Arabian gulf    north of Saudi Arabia and south of Iraq The Answer is ASIA.
Iraq. Iraq is located in the Middle East. It is bound by Iran to the east, Turkey to the north, Syria to the northwest, Jordan to the west, Saudi Arabia to the southwest and south as well as Kuwait and the Persian Gulf to the southeast.... Israel Israel is located in the Middle East along the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea. It is bound by the Red Sea to the west, Egypt and Jordan to the northeast, Iraq and Kuwait to the north, the Persian Gulf, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates to the east, Oman to the southeast and south as well as Yemen to the south and southwest.... Syria Syria
Where is Kuwait located on the world map? Of course, Kuwait is a small sovereign Arab nation but it is well know country located in the northeast of the Arabian Peninsula in Western Asia. 
Confidence votes 39.3K. AsiaKuwait is a small country located on the Persian Gulf in the continent of Asia. First of all it is spelled Kuwait. It is located in the continent Asia. It next to Iraq and is an Arabian country. Kuwait is located in the gulf area, in Asia.
Kuwait is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Kuwait include Bahrain, Iraq, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Its biggest cities and towns include Ḩawallī, Doha, Bayān and Kayfān. 