1 It could take anywhere from three months to a year for a therapist to prescribe hormone therapy, after which time it will take a year on hormones -- per the World Professional Association for Transgender Health's standards of care -- to qualify for gender confirmation surgery.
1 Hormone therapy can cost $25 to $200 per month, depending on which hormones are prescribed. 2  The LGBHealthChannel.com has an overview of transgender hormone therapy. 3  Usually, an experienced mental health professional must diagnose gender identity disorder in order for hormones to b
Androgen gels and patches cost approximately $160-$200 per month. It isn’t very useful to take testosterone orally. However, it can be administered bucally (under the tongue or by the gum). There isn’t a lot of research about bucal application of testosterone specifically for transgender individuals. Bucal testosterone treatment costs about $160-$200 per month. Testosterone can also be administered through a pellet implanted in the body.
1 The LGBHealthChannel.com has an overview of transgender hormone therapy. 2  Usually, an experienced mental health professional must diagnose gender identity disorder in order for hormones to be prescribed. 3  If psychotherapy is required, it can cost $50 to $200 per session for patients not covered by insurance.
I was wondering how much it would cost to start hormone transition with Testosterone Blockers. I am not 100% sure if I can take Spiro, or if I have to take Lupron or something similar, as the IRC room said. Thank you!
Discounts: 1  Hormone therapy can cost $25 to $200 per month, depending on which hormones are prescribed. 2  The LGBHealthChannel.com has an overview of transgender hormone therapy. 3  Usually, an experienced mental health professional must diagnose gender identity disorder in order for hormones to b
Costs. The average cost for a male-to-female surgery is about $17,000. Adding in a cost of about $1000 for therapy, $1500 for hormones, and $500 for doctors visits and lab tests, the cost to transition averages about $20,000 over a two year transition period.