One of the best pieces of PLC programming software when you want to learn Structured Text is Beckhoff TwinCat 3. The programming software from Beckhoff is fully compatible with all the IEC 61131-3 PLC programming languages including Ladder Diagram (LD) and Structured Text (ST). Structured Text is PLC programming language defined by PLCOpen in IEC 61131-3. The programming language is text-based, compared to the graphics-based ladder diagram. At first, it may seem better to use a graphical programming language for PLC programming. But in my opinion, that is only true for smaller PLC programs.
One thing to add here is that, when you are programming in Structured Text, you will often not use the PROGRAM/END_PROGRAM construct. It will already be done by the PLC programming software, and the code you have to write, is what you want inside that construct. Structured Text is PLC programming language defined by PLCOpen in IEC 61131-3. The programming language is text-based, compared to the graphics-based ladder diagram. At first, it may seem better to use a graphical programming language for PLC programming. But in my opinion, that is only true for smaller PLC programs.
Tag Based Memory Structures. Tag based memory structures are what most new generation PLC/PAC's use. A tag is a friendly name for a memory location. This tag name also has a data type assigned. In this section we will use the Allen Bradley ControlLogix PAC. Refer to the manufacturer manual for other PAC brands. 
Ladder logic has evolved into a programming language that represents a program by a graphical diagram based on the circuit diagrams of relay logic hardware. Ladder logic is used to develop software for programmable logic controllers (PLCs) used in industrial control applications. The name is based on the observation that programs in this language resemble ladders, with two vertical rails and a series of horizontal rungs between them
The CX-One is a comprehensive software package that integrates PLC Programming Software with Support Software for setting up Networks, Programmable Terminals, Servo Systems, Inverters, and Temperature Controllers. Item list of CXONE-AL[][]C-V4 / -AL[][]D-V4. about this Product Family. Data structures can be shared between the PLC ladder program and screen editor of programmable terminal. Note 1: To use CJ2 data structure, prepare CX-Designer Ver.3.2 or higher and NS system program Ver.8.4 or higher.
When you upload the Structured Text PLC program to your PLC, the programming software you use will compile your program. This means that it will translate the code to a sort of machine code which can be executed by the PLC. The compiler uses the syntax of the programming language to understand your program. Structured Text is PLC programming language defined by PLCOpen in IEC 61131-3. The programming language is text-based, compared to the graphics-based ladder diagram. At first, it may seem better to use a graphical programming language for PLC programming. But in my opinion, that is only true for smaller PLC programs.
Oracle Application Testing Suite. Structured programming (sometimes known as modular programming) is a subset of procedural programming that enforces a logical structure on the program being written to make it more efficient and easier to understand and modify. 
More recently, PLCs are programmed using application software on personal computers, which now represent the logic in graphic form instead of character symbols. The computer is connected to the PLC through Ethernet, RS-232, RS-485, or RS-422 cabling. Special-purpose I/O modules may be used where the scan time of the PLC is too long to allow predictable performance. Precision timing modules, or counter modules for use with shaft encoders, are used where the scan time would be too long to reliably count pulses or detect the sense of rotation of an encoder.
A programmable logic controller, PLC, or programmable controller is a digital computer used for automation of typically industrial electromechanical processes, such as control of machinery on factory assembly lines, amusement rides, or light fixtures. PLCs are used in many machines, in many industries. Special-purpose I/O modules may be used where the scan time of the PLC is too long to allow predictable performance. Precision timing modules, or counter modules for use with shaft encoders, are used where the scan time would be too long to reliably count pulses or detect the sense of rotation of an encoder.
Programs to control machine operation are typically stored in battery-backed-up or non-volatile memory. A PLC is an example of a hard real-time system since output results must be produced in response to input conditions within a limited time, otherwise unintended operation will result. Special-purpose I/O modules may be used where the scan time of the PLC is too long to allow predictable performance. Precision timing modules, or counter modules for use with shaft encoders, are used where the scan time would be too long to reliably count pulses or detect the sense of rotation of an encoder.