When conducting business, health care providers must navigate many complicated regulations, such as the federal physician self-referral prohibition (commonly known as the Stark law), the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and myriad state fraud and abuse statutes that may or may not mirror the federal rules. A violation of the anti-kickback statute could result in fines of up to $25,000, imprisonment of up to five years, or both. In addition, a violation could result in exclusion from the Medicare program.
Anti-Kickback Statute. Overview of Issue. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute (“Anti-Kickback Statute”) is a criminal statute that prohibits the exchange (or offer to exchange), of anything of value, in an effort to induce (or reward) the referral of federal health care program business. See 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broadly drafted and establishes penalties for individuals and entities on both sides of the prohibited transaction. Conviction for a single violation under the Anti-Kickback Statute may result in a fine of up to $25,000 and imprisonment for up to five (5) years.
Although the Stark Act and the Anti-kickback statute operate in the civil and criminal arenas respectively, the statutes share the common objective of ensuring quality health care through the prevention of illegal referrals and hence are complementary in nature. Firstly, the anti-kickback statute is a criminal statute prohibiting any willful solicitation or acceptance of any type of remuneration to induce referrals for health services that are reimbursable by the Federal government.
There are many other laws, both federal and state, which create potential liability for providers and other health care businesses including state anti-kickback statutes, state self-referral prohibitions (similar to the federal Stark regulations, but often applicable to all forms of payors). A violation of the anti-kickback statute could result in fines of up to $25,000, imprisonment of up to five years, or both. In addition, a violation could result in exclusion from the Medicare program.
Safe Harbor Regulations. The safe harbor regulations describe various payment and business practices that, although they potentially implicate the Federal anti-kickback statute, are not treated as offenses under the statute. The safe harbor regulations, in their entirety, can be found here. Proposed Rule: Safe Harbor Under the Anti-Kickback Statute for the Waiver of Medicare SELECT Beneficiary Coinsurance and Deductible Amounts (67 Fed.
Courts have also held that violations of the Anti-kickback Statute and Stark Law can be pursued under the False Claims Act. Further, compliance with the Anti-kickback Statute and Stark Law is a condition for reimbursement under Medicare[viii]. [i] 42 U.S.C. §1320a-7b. [ii] Id. Firstly, the anti-kickback statute is a criminal statute prohibiting any willful solicitation or acceptance of any type of remuneration to induce referrals for health services that are reimbursable by the Federal government.
Yes. Many states have their own anti-kickback laws which may be identical to the federal statutes in part, but also contain their own unique provisions. In order to ensure compliance, a practitioner must review his home state Anti-Kickback statute, in addition to the federal Anti-Kickback provisions. For example, state statutes differ in regulating what constitutes a referral source