Amphibole minerals’ defining characteristics are their dark color, hardness and well-developed cleavage. These usually serve to distinguish them from most other common rock-forming minerals with the exception of the pyroxene mineral group. Amphibole comes from the Greek word amfibolos, which means ‘ambiguous’ or ‘doubtful’. Ambiguity also surrounds the older name for part of the mineral group. Although it is no longer used as a mineral name, the most common rock-forming amphiboles were once called ‘Hornblende’.
As noted above, hornblende is a name used for a number of dark-colored amphibole minerals that are compositional variants with similar physical properties. These minerals can not be distinguished from one another without laboratory analysis. The mineral hornblende has very few uses. Its primary use might be as a mineral specimen. However, hornblende is the most abundant mineral in a rock known as amphibolite which has a large number of uses. It is crushed and used for highway construction and as railroad ballast. It is cut for use as dimension stone.
Spodumene is the only lithium pyroxene. It is a white or pale-colored mineral that forms in some pegmatites. Their typical dark color, hardness and well-developed cleavage usually serve to distinguish these minerals from most other common rock-forming minerals, except for those of the amphibole (hornblende) group.
The hornblende Mineral Group. Hornblende is a group name used to describe Ferro-hornblende and Magnesio-hornblende, but the term is generally more inclusive for all calcium aluminum amphibole s. Hornblende is major constituent of the earth and is extremely common. It forms in a host of different mineral environment s, and is often a major constituent of the rock type it forms in.
Introduction PropertiesCommon rock-forming mineralsEconomic minerals. Hornblende is a member of the amphibole group of more complex silicates, in which the tetrahedra are linked to form a continuous chain twice the width of the pyroxene chains. For this reason they are often referred to as double chain silicate
Hornblende is a complex inosilicate series of minerals (ferrohornblende – magnesiohornblende). It is not a recognized mineral in its own right, but the name is used as a general or field term, to refer to a dark amphibole. Hornblende is an isomorphous mixture of three molecules; a calcium-iron-magnesium silicate, an aluminium-iron-magnesium silicate, and an iron-magnesium silicate.
Hornblende is a very common mineral found in many geologic environments. It is found in many intrusive igneous rocks ranging in composition from granites to diorite to gabbros to syenites. It occurs as phenocrysts in several varieties of extrusive igneous rocks, such an andesite. — Small needle-like crystals of hornblende occur in gneisses and amphibolite in outcrops in Big Falls County Park along the Eau Claire River in the NW SE Sec. 13 T.27N R.8W (Cummings, 1984; Myers, 1974). Some of the amphibolite has been used to make bookends, tie tacks and pendants. (Lovvik, 1976).
The pyroxene minerals typical dark color, hardness and well-developed cleavage usually serve to distinguish them from most common rock-forming minerals, with the exception of the hornblende (amphibole) mineral group. Their typical dark color, hardness and well-developed cleavage usually serve to distinguish these minerals from most other common rock-forming minerals, except for those of the amphibole (hornblende) group.
Hornblende is a field and classroom name used for a group of dark-colored amphibole minerals found in many types of igneous and metamorphic rocks. These minerals vary in chemical composition but are all double-chain inosilicates with very similar physical properties. The mineral hornblende has very few uses. Its primary use might be as a mineral specimen. However, hornblende is the most abundant mineral in a rock known as amphibolite which has a large number of uses. It is crushed and used for highway construction and as railroad ballast. It is cut for use as dimension stone.