Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: point of contact (Noun). The single person who represents an organization, for a specific task. point of contact (Noun). A person who is associated with a defined Internet entity. point of contact (Noun). A specific intersection; a contact point.
1. In land warfare, a point on the terrain, easily identifiable, where two or more units are required to make contact. 2. In air operations, the position at which a mission leader makes radio contact with an air control agency. 3. In land warfare, a point on the terrain, easily identifiable, where two or more units are required to make contact. 2. In air operations, the position at which a mission leader makes radio contact with an air control agency
A military term used to described your ass. Comes from paratrooper training. When you land after a jump, you hit the ground and roll. This causes your 1st POC to be the balls of your feet. 2nd POC is your calves. 3rd POC is your back of your thigh. 4th POC is you ass, and 5th Point Of Contact is your shoulder blade. The idiot who listed 5th point of contact with a similar definition needs to get his head out of his 4th point of contact. 
Point of contact. A point of contact or single point of contact is a person or a department serving as the coordinator or focal point of information concerning an activity or program. point of contact (Noun). The single person who represents an organization, for a specific task. point of contact (Noun). A person who is associated with a defined Internet entity. point of contact (Noun). A specific intersection; a contact point.
But if we want to receive what we need from the Lord, we have to release that faith back to God through an act of our believing. A point of contact provides a way for us to act on our belief, and when we do that, we release our faith to God. What a point of contact does is to set the time and place for your miracle to begin. A point of contact may be many different things, and you can choose which action you will use as your point of contact. 
(November 2008). A point of contact (POC) or single point of contact (SPOC) is a person or a department serving as the coordinator or focal point of information concerning an activity or program. A POC is used in many cases where information is time-sensitive and accuracy is important. For example, they are used in Whois databases. A SPOC is also used as a lookup and email / telephone / location connectivity tool for individuals in spoc.com where users are identified with the ^ symbol.
Use point of contact in a sentence. Show more usage examples... In case of a crisis, our supervisor made sure that everyone knew that the event coordinator was the point of contact during our company's award banquet this year. 3 people found this helpful. The point of contact at the firm was the person who said they would be waiting for us at the convention as well. 9 people found this helpful. The point of contact received many calls in the week before the company picnic regarding items people wanted to bring and activities they wanted to happen
point of contact (plural points of contact). 1  The single person who represents an organization, for a specific task. ( 2 computing) A person who is associated with a defined Internet entity. ( 3 sciences) A specific intersection; a contact point. 
1. In land warfare, a point on the terrain, easily identifiable, where two or more units are required to make contact. 2. In air operations, the position at which a mission leader makes radio contact with an air control agency. 3. (DOD only) In evasion and recovery operations, a location where an evader can establish contact with friendly forces. Also called CP. See also checkpoint; control point; coordinating poin