Microsoft SQL Server allows you to create, edit and delete tables using the SQL syntax. If you want to use SQL to alter a column name, you just need the table in which it is located and the original column name. Changing a table column name is a delicate process. Instructions. Click Start and select All Programs.. In the SQL Server directory, select SQL Server Management Studio.. This opens the console where you can edit a table's column name. Enter your SQL Server user name and password. The best user name for a column change is sa.. The sa user has administrator rights on the database. Right-click the database name that contains the table you want to edit. In the menu that pops up, select New Query.. A new query window open
SQL ALTER TABLE Rename Column Syntax. Sometimes we want to change the name of a column. To do this in SQL, we specify that we want to change the structure of the table using the ALTER TABLE command, followed by a command that tells the relational database that we want to rename the column.
The script for renaming any column : sp_RENAME 'TableName.[OldColumnName]' , '[NewColumnName]', 'COLUMN'. The script for renaming any object (table, sp etc) : sp_RENAME '[OldTableName]' , '[NewTableName]'. This article demonstrates two examples of renaming database object. 1  Renaming database table column to new name. 2  Renaming database table to new name. 2.Renaming database table to new name. We can change the table name too with the same command. sp_RENAME 'Table_First', 'Table_Last' GO. Following fig. Shows how we can change Table Name. Now, the table name “Table_First” is renamed as “Table_Last”.
For example, if you rename a table column and that column is referenced in a trigger, you must modify the trigger to reflect the new column name. Use sys.sql_expression_dependencies to list dependencies on the object before renaming it. Security. To rename a column using Object Explorer. In Object Explorer, connect to an instance of Database Engine. In Object Explorer, right-click the table in which you want to rename columns and choose Rename. Type a new column name
To rename a column using Table Designer. In Object Explorer, right-click the table to which you want to rename columns and choose Design. Under Column Name, select the name you want to change and type a new one. On the File menu, click Save table name. To rename a column using Object Explorer. In Object Explorer, connect to an instance of Database Engine. In Object Explorer, right-click the table in which you want to rename columns and choose Rename. Type a new column
It would be a good suggestion to use an already built-in function but another way around is to: 1  Create a new column with same data type and NEW NAME. 2  Run an UPDATE/INSERT statement to copy all the data into new column. 3  Drop the old column. 
To modify the data type of a column. In Object Explorer, right-click the table with columns for which you want to change the scale and click Design. Select the column for which you want to modify the data type. In the Column Properties tab, click the grid cell for the Data Type property and choose a new data type from the drop-down list. On the File menu, click Save table name. To modify the data type of a column. In Object Explorer, connect to an instance of Database Engine. On the Standard bar, click New Query. Copy and paste the following example into the query window and click Execute.
Rename Column ». The Alter Column statement can modify the data type and the Nullable attribute of a column. The syntax is the same for SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008 except 2008 allows the sparse attribute to be changed. For the example below, we will begin by creating a sample table, then we will modify the columns. 