Tetanus is an acute, sometimes fatal, disease of the central nervous system, caused by the toxin of the tetanus bacterium, which usually enters the body through an open wound. Tetanus bacteria live in soil and manure, but also can be found in the human intestine and other places. 
Tetanus is a disease caused by infection with Clostridium tetani (klos-TRIH-dee-um teh-TAH-nye) bacteria, which are found all over the world in soil, dust, and some animal feces (FEE-seez, or bowel movements) and even on human skin. 
Tetanus is an acute, sometimes fatal, disease of the central nervous system, caused by the toxin of the tetanus bacterium, which usually enters the body through an open wound. Tetanus bacteria live in soil and manure, but also can be found in the human intestine and other places. 
Tetanus is caused by a bacterium, which lives in dirt, dust and soil. It is also present in in human and animal feces (poop), and sometimes in animal saliva (spit). The bacteria can get into your body wherever your skin is broken. 
The bacteria that cause tetanus live in the soil. They are also found in animal intestines and human feces. Tetanus occurs when wounds or an infant's umbilical cord are contaminated with the bacteria. The bacteria then multiply and produce a toxin, which affects the nervous system. The risk of tetanus increases with deep puncture wounds infected by dirt or feces. The bacteria can also be introduced through the umbilical cord of a newborn. Common sources of tetanus infection include the following: 1  animal bites. 2  burns. 3  chronic otitis media, or infections of the middle ear. 4  crush injuries.
Tetanus is an infection caused by bacteria called Clostridium tetani. Tetanus bacteria are everywhere in the environment, including soil, dust and manure. Common Ways Tetanus Gets Into Your Body. The bacteria can get into the body through broken skin, usually through injuries from contaminated objects. Certain breaks in the skin that are more likely to get infected with tetanus bacteria. These include: 1  Wounds contaminated with dirt, poop (feces), or spit (saliva). 2  Wounds caused by an object puncturing the skin, like a nail or needle (puncture wounds). 3  Burns. 4  Crush injuries. 5  Injuries with dead tissu
Knowledge center. Tetanus (or lockjaw) is a serious infection caused by Clostridium tetani bacteria which produce a toxin that affects the brain and nervous system. The toxin leads to stiffness in the jaw muscles as well as other muscles. Tetanus is caused by the Clostridium tetani bacterium. Clostridium tetani spores are able to survive for a long time outside of the body. They are most commonly found in animal manure and contaminated soil, but may exist virtually anywhere.
Tetanus Overview. Tetanus is an infectious disease caused by contamination of wounds with the bacteria Clostridium tetani, and/or the spores they produce that live in the soil and animal feces. Tetanus has been recognized for centuries. Tetanus spores are found throughout the environment, usually in soil, dust, and animal waste. The usual locations for the bacteria to enter the body are puncture wounds, such as those caused by rusty nails, splinters, or even insect bites.
Tetanus is caused by a toxin made by the bacteria Clostridium tetani. The bacteria are generally introduced into the body through wounds in the skin. The risk of tetanus increases with deep puncture wounds infected by dirt or feces. The bacteria can also be introduced through the umbilical cord of a newborn. Common sources of tetanus infection include the following: 1  animal bites. 2  burns. 3  chronic otitis media, or infections of the middle ear. 4  crush injuries.