Average RN salaries for job postings in Washington, DC are 25% higher than average RN salaries for job postings nationwide. 
$83,000. Average Nurse RN salaries for job postings in Washington, DC are 25% higher than average Nurse RN salaries for job postings nationwide.
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Staff Nurse-RN salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Staff Nurse-RN in Washington, DC. Requires an associate's degree and is certified as a registered nurse. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN in Washington are expected to make less than the median. Requires an associate's degree and is certified as a registered nurse. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Nurse Practitioner in Washington, DC that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Nurse Practitioner in Washington are expected to make less than the median. Job Description for Nurse Practitioner. Examines and treats patients independently and in autonomous collaboration with other health care professionals. Ensures proper illness and injury care and disease prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and recovery.
Promotes patients' independence by establishing patient care goals and teaching patients and families to understand conditions, medications, and self-care skills. Requires an associate's degree and is certified as a registered nurse. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
Average Registered Nurse Salaries. The average salary for registered nurse jobs in Washington, DC is $66,000. Average registered nurse salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term registered nurse anywhere in the job listing. Registered Nurse Salary Information. This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine. The registered nurse salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges.
0 HI, I am from California and might need to move to the DC area due to a family member taking a job there. I see the salaries are much lower in DC. I am an ICU nurse with 8yrs of experience and 1year of service in Iraq with the Army as an RN. In the MD suburbs Montgomery County has many good public schools. Salary wise I am not sure how much someone with 8 or 9 years of experience is paid. Several years ago new grad pay at Georgetown I believe the pay was $28/hr.
The salary for someone with the job title Nurse Practitioner in Washington, DC varies depending on a number of factors. Job Description for Nurse Practitioner. Examines and treats patients independently and in autonomous collaboration with other health care professionals. Ensures proper illness and injury care and disease prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and recovery.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN in Washington, DC that make less than that salary. Requires an associate's degree and is certified as a registered nurse. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.