In a simple case, the basis of property for tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code is the purchase price of a piece of property. For example, if a taxpayer purchases a parcel of land for $500,000, and no deductions apply to that parcel of land, the taxpayer's basis is $500,000.
Reasonable Belief exists, when there is a reasonable basis to believe that a crime is being or has already been committed. In criminal law, similar to the probable cause standard, it is a subjective standard used to validate a warrantless search and seizure or arrest.
Search for legal acronyms and/or abbreviations containing Basis in the Legal Abbreviations and Acronyms Dictionary. The Legal Abbreviations and Acronyms Dictionary entries include explanations of the context of abbreviations or acronyms as well as the direct meaning.
The taxpayer’s basis in an asset after the basis has been increased to a certain value (usually its fair market value) upon a certain date or event. The basis of one asset that substitutes for that of another asset when the first asset has been exchanged or otherwise transferred in return for the second asset.
Basis is the value used to determine profit or loss when property is sold for assessing income tax and capital gains tax. Under tax law, basis means the cost of property after adjusting the depreciation.
Basis. The minimum, fundamental constituents, foundation, or support of a thing or a system without which the thing or system would cease to exist. In accounting, the value assigned to an asset that is sold or transferred so that it can be determined whether a gain or loss has resulted from the transaction.
basis. n. the original cost of an asset to be used to determine the amount of capital gain tax upon its sale. An adjusted basis includes improvements, expenses, and damages between the time the original basis (price) is established and transfer (sale) of the asset.
Where a taxpayer is allowed to depreciate property with a limited useful life, such as an automobile used primarily for business purposes, the taxpayer's adjusted basis is reduced. Assume a taxpayer purchases an automobile for $30,000, and then claims deductions for $5,000.
The definition of Basis in the law of the United States, as defined by the lexicographer Arthur Leff in his legal dictionary is: In ordinary language, the conceptual twin of the more physical term base.