Application Bulletin 204/2 e Oxidation stability of oils and fats – Rancimat method Page 4 of 4 Comments  Any kind of contamination, particles, or scratches in the glass can catalyze reactions and thereby affect the result. Contaminations may deteriorate the reproducibility of the results or cause incorrect results. Application Bulletin 204/2 e Oxidation stability of oils and fats – Rancimat method Page 3 of 4 Peanut oil 120 3 … 15 Pumpkin seed oil 120 approx. 7 Rapeseed oil 120 3 … 5 Safflower oil 120 1 … 2 Sesame oil 120 approx. 5 Soybean oil 120 1 … 7 Sunflower oil 120 1 … 4 Sweet almond oil 120 approx. 4 Walnut
The induction time, also known as oxidation stability index (OSI), is measured – or, in the case of polymers, the stability time. Below you can see Metrohm’s dedicated instruments for the above-mentioned sample types. All of these systems are compliant with national and international standards for stability measurement. That’s why Metrohm offers you stability measuring instruments that allow you to perform automated accelerated aging tests for natural oils and fats, fat-containing foods and cosmetics, biodiesel, and chlorine-containing polymers such as PVC.
A mathematical conversion can be used to convert the OSI time into a corresponding AOM time. REFERENCES Ofﬁ cial Methods of Analysis of AOCS, Cd 12b-92, “Oil Stability Index”“Collaborative Study of the Oil Stability Index Analysis”. Tod A. Jebe, Mark G. Matlock and Ronald T. Sleeter. The test tube is then placed in a heating block at a temperature of 110°C. Clean, dry air is bubbled through the sample, and the efﬂ uent stream of air is bubbled through a collection tube ﬁ lled with ultra pure water. An electrode is placed in the water, and the instrument monitors the conductivity.
This method is used to predict stability and evaluate antioxidant systems in fats and finished products. Oxygen uptake of the sample is measured in a closed system. The rate at which oxygen is consumed indicates the oxidative stability of the tested product. While still used today, the AOM method is being supplanted by faster automated techniques. The method is included in compendia published by AOAC, AACC, and AOCS. OSI (Oxidative Stability Index) . The method is similar in principle to the AOM method, but it is faster and more automated. Air is passed through a sample held at constant temperature. After the air passes through the sample, it is bubbled through a reservoir of deionized water
All fats and oils are prone to oxidation. The rapidity of oxidation depends on the degree of unsaturation, the presence of antioxidants, and prior storage conditions. In the OSI analysis, the rate of oxidation is slow until any resistance to oxidation is overcome. This time is known as the oxidation induction period. After the induction period, the rate of oxidation increases dramatically. Unlike peroxide value and free fatty acid analyses which give an idea of how good or bad an oil is at a particular time, the OSI analysis has predictive value. The test tube is then placed in a heating block at a temperature of 110°C. Clean, dry air is bubbled through the sample, and the efﬂ uent stream of air is bubbled through a collection tube ﬁ lled with ultra pure water. An electrode is placed in the water, and the instrument monitors the conductivity.
This is preferably. Application Bulletin 204/2 e Oxidation stability of oils and fats – Rancimat method Page 2 of 4 done by cold extraction, since heating would alter the fat. Before the extraction, the sample has to be crushed if it is not already liquid or powdered. Enough sample to extract approx. Application Bulletin 204/2 e Oxidation stability of oils and fats – Rancimat method Page 3 of 4 Peanut oil 120 3 … 15 Pumpkin seed oil 120 approx. 7 Rapeseed oil 120 3 … 5 Safflower oil 120 1 … 2 Sesame oil 120 approx. 5 Soybean oil 120 1 … 7 Sunflower oil 120 1 … 4 Sweet almond oil 120 approx. 4 Walnut
Slope/W software is used under different conditions to evaluate slope stability. Analyzes for eachstate and each slope with Bishop, Janbu, ordinary method of slides and Morgenstern methods is calculated thatthe minimum safety factor in each of these methods, be considered as a safety factor of slope stability. 
Tweet. OxiTester is a fast, simple and reliable analysis system that can be used to control the quality of vegetable oils in all of the stages of the oil production process, that is directly in the oil mill, in the oil processing plant or at the time of purchase. 1 Temperature control system for oil mills: if connected to OxiTester, this system enables to monitor the temperature during the different stages of the pressing process. 2  It includes a converter and a maximum of 4 probes, and is able to provide information on the oil temperature during its extraction in the oil mill.