1 Sometimes the lab has data to suggest whether the variant is likely to be harmful or not. 2  Your test result may indicate this (for instance, “suspected deleterious” means that the lab thinks the mutation is likely to be harmful, and “favor polymorphism” suggests that the mutation is more likely to be meaningless). 
This classification means that the variant is not associated with the patient’s clinical findings or any other known medical condition. It may be a well-documented variant commonly found in the general population. This is essentially a “negative” result. 
In other words, if you buy a car as is and the transmission fails a few blocks from the dealership as you're driving it home, the dealership is typically under no legal obligation to take back the car or cover the cost of repairs. In fact, as is is usually used in conjunction with the term no warranty, just to be sure that the buyer knows he or she is buying a used car as it sits on the lot without any warranty coverage.
Simply, if a feather pelt is labelled variant, it has variable feather colors and patterns. It does not mean the quality of a pelt is variant. For example, a grizzly variant is predominately grizzly and typically has any one of these feathers also on the pelt: badger, furnace, brown. The quantity and pattern of variant feathers varies from pelt-to-pelt and is as unique as your fingerprint. A true variant is considered to have a potpourri of colors and feather patterns.
adj. 1. Differing from others of the same kind or from a standard: a variant form of the disease; a book in variant editions. 2. Having or exhibiting variation; varying: a procedure producing variant results. n. 
This classification means that the CNV is known to cause disease. In some cases, the variant is clearly associated with the patient’s findings. In other cases, a variant is an incidental finding, indicating an additional medical concern unrelated to the reason for testing. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: variant (Noun). Something that is slightly different from a type or norm. variant (Noun). A different sequence of a gene (locus). variant (Noun). A variable that can hold any of various unrelated data types. variant (Adjective). Showing variety, diverse. 
Familiarity information: VARIANT used as a noun is uncommon. • VARIANT (adjective). The adjective VARIANT has 2 senses: 1. differing from a norm or standard. 2. exhibiting or tending to variation and change. Familiarity information: VARIANT used as an adjective is rare.
Welcome to autoTRADER.ca (the Website). This is a legal agreement between you and Trader Corporation (Trader) governing your use of the Website. This agreement contains disclaimers of liability and other terms that affect your rights. The Website means the Trader website accessible at autoTRADER.ca and any associated or co-branded features, applications, services or websites provided to you by Trader. The Policy , or the Privacy Policy means this privacy policy, including amendments, modifications, and additions.
As Is, No Warranty. The term as is is commonly used in the pre-owned car world to describe a car's warranty status. Specifically, some cars are offered as is, without a warranty; other cars include a warranty. In general, the term as is means that a certain car is available in the condition as it is on the lot. In fact, as is is usually used in conjunction with the term no warranty, just to be sure that the buyer knows he or she is buying a used car as it sits on the lot without any warranty coverage.