A safe level of radon gas is no radon gas. Radon gas is a carcinogen which causes lung cancer. The US EPA has put it plainly, stating, Any radon exposure has some risk of causing lung cancer. The lower the radon level in your home, the lower your family's risk of lung cancer..
Radon gas is radioactive, and as a gas, it is much more dangerous than a liquid or solid because it is airborne and can be inspired. If you breathe in radon and it undergoes r … adioactive decay inside your lungs, there will be some heavy biological damage. Radon is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas. It is formed as natural deposits of uranium throughout the earth's crust decay. As radon decay products are inh … aled, they can alter the cells in the lungs.
Some of the causes of these elevated radon levels are the amount of uranium in the bedrock, fault lines and fissures in the bedrock allowing easy movement of radon from deep in the earth and residual soil from uranium mining. There is no lack of geographic radon information available. Removing radon is a bit more complex and can have a greater effect on your home's environment. One popular mitigation method uses a low volume ventilation fan which pumps air from beneath the basement floor or slab (via plastic pipe) to a vent located at the roof line.
Radon is a colorless, odorless, radioactive gas. It forms naturally from the decay (breaking down) of radioactive elements, such as uranium, which are found in different amounts in soil and rock throughout the world. 
Radon is a chemical element with symbol Rn and atomic number 86. It is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, tasteless noble gas, occurring naturally as a decay product of radium. Its most stable isotope, 222Rn, has a half-life of 3.8 days. Radon is one of the densest substances that remains a gas under normal conditions.
The short answer to this question is: yes, radon is indeed dangerous. The why, how are we exposed and what can we do about it are a bit longer. As I mentioned above radon is an alpha emitter, meaning that it is only dangerous when we are in very close proximity to it or it has been ingested or inhaled. Radon is a noble gas. This means it is very un-reactive in the environment and does not interact readily with other compounds or elements around it. This also means that in the environment radon travels all on its own and does not attach itself to other elements as a way to get around.
Radon is radioactive. More importantly, it decays radioactively into other elements that are also radioactive, and unlike radon these other elements (such as polonium) stick in the lungs if inhaled. No serious scientist doubts that exposure to very high concentrations of radiation increases the risk of cancer. Additionally, there is evidence that radon is much more dangerous to smokers than to non-smokers. Click here to find out more about how we know radon is dangerous.. Very high levels of radon (above 10 or 15 pCi/L) are definitely dangerous. There are homes with these concentrations! Lower levels (2 to 10 pCi/L) are probably somewhat dangerous, with higher levels leading to higher risks.
Radon gas is radioactive, and as a gas, it is much more dangerous than a liquid or solid because it is airborne and can be inspired. If you breathe in radon and it undergoes r … adioactive decay inside your lungs, there will be some heavy biological damage. Radon is dangerous because it is a highly radioactive gas. Inhaling  it is known to cause lung cancer. You cannot see it, feel it, smell  it or taste it.
Radon is a naturally occurring radioactive gas that is produced by the radioactive decay of radium. Breathing high concentrations of radon can cause lung cancer. Very high levels of radon (above 10 or 15 pCi/L) are definitely dangerous. There are homes with these concentrations! Lower levels (2 to 10 pCi/L) are probably somewhat dangerous, with higher levels leading to higher risks.
Most of the information gleaned about radon's effects on the human body have come from studies of workers in uranium mines. Unusual levels of lung cancer among workers with otherwise low total radiation exposure led to the discovery that this mildly radioactive gas was more dangerous than had been believed. Removing radon is a bit more complex and can have a greater effect on your home's environment. One popular mitigation method uses a low volume ventilation fan which pumps air from beneath the basement floor or slab (via plastic pipe) to a vent located at the roof line.