Plasma Membrane. All living cells, prokaryotic and eukaryotic, have a plasma membrane that encloses their contents and serves as a semi-porous barrier to the outside environment. The membrane acts as a boundary, holding the cell constituents together and keeping other substances from entering. The presence of cholesterol and glycolipids, which are found in most cell membranes, can also affect molecular dynamics and inhibit phase transitions. In prokaryotes and plants, the plasma membrane is an inner layer of protection since a rigid cell wall forms the outside boundary for their cells.
One major role of phospholipids in cells is to form membranes. Membranes in cells are phospholipid bilayers, which are barriers that prevent charged particles and large molecules from moving across them. The outer skin of the cell is a phospholipid bilayer. Eukaryotic cells also have skin surrounding defined organelles with different functions inside them. Prokaryotes are cells that only have an outer membrane. Eukaryotes have membrane-bound organelles, which include the nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi body. The phospholipid membranes of these organelles are connected and are collectively referred to as the endomembrane system. The structural role of the endomembrane system is to separate the cell into compartments.
The cell membrane (or plasma membrane or plasmalemma) surrounds the cytoplasm of living cells, physically separating the intracellular components from the extracellular environment. The cell membrane consists of three classes of amphipathic lipids: phospholipids, glycolipids, and sterols. The amount of each depends upon the type of cell, but in the majority of cases phospholipids are the most abundant. In RBC studies, 30% of the plasma membrane is lipid.
The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. It consists of the phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. The cell membrane consists of three classes of amphipathic lipids: phospholipids, glycolipids, and sterols. The amount of each depends upon the type of cell, but in the majority of cases phospholipids are the most abundant. In RBC studies, 30% of the plasma membrane is lipid.
All prokaryotic cells have a phospholipid bilayer, or sometimes multiple bilayers, called the plasma membrane. This structure marks the boundary between the inside and outside of the cell even though it is found on the inside of the prokaryotic cell wall. In addition to phospholipids, the plasma membrane has cholesterol molecules and proteins that allow the membrane to function properly. Cholesterol molecules are primarily responsible for giving the membrane the rigidity it needs to hold the cell’s shape.
Your cells are surrounded by a very important type of lipid, called phospholipids. Phospholipids consist of a hydrophilic (or 'water loving') head and a hydrophobic (or 'water fearing') tail. Phospholipids like to line up and arrange themselves into two parallel layers, called a phospholipid bilayer. Let's review. Phospholipids are a type of lipid-one of the four main classes of molecules that make up living things. Phospholipids serve a very important function by surrounding and protecting internal cell components.
32, Fig. 32A, and Fig. 31). The cytoplasmic membrane (also called the plasma or cell membrane) in eukaryotic cells, as in prokaryotes, is a fluid phospholipid bilayer embedded with proteins and glycoproteins. 
The cytoplasm and other prokaryotic cellular contents are found inside the plasma membrane. On the other hand, all eukaryotic cells have a plasma membrane as well, but they also have additional phospholipid membranes surrounding internal structures like the nucleus, the mitochondria, and the chloroplasts. In addition to phospholipids, the plasma membrane has cholesterol molecules and proteins that allow the membrane to function properly. Cholesterol molecules are primarily responsible for giving the membrane the rigidity it needs to hold the cell’s shape.
Other prokaryotes have only a plasma membrane. Prokaryotic cells are also surrounded by a cell wall composed of peptidoglycan (amino acids and sugars). Some eukaryotic cells also have cell walls, but none that are made of peptidoglycan. The cell membrane consists of three classes of amphipathic lipids: phospholipids, glycolipids, and sterols. The amount of each depends upon the type of cell, but in the majority of cases phospholipids are the most abundant. In RBC studies, 30% of the plasma membrane is lipid.
In addition to large membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, cells have small membrane-bound pouches called vesicles. These vesicles are structures that separate small molecules and enzymes into one place, away from the rest of the cell’s internal fluid. The skin of these vesicles is also a phospholipid bilayer. Eukaryotes have membrane-bound organelles, which include the nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi body. The phospholipid membranes of these organelles are connected and are collectively referred to as the endomembrane system. The structural role of the endomembrane system is to separate the cell into compartments.