Best Answer: The physical therapy assistant degree is a two year degree. The physical therapy degree is a master's or doctorate level degree which usually takes 6-7 years to complete. Source(s): I am a PT. mistify · 7 years ago. 
In order to work as a physical therapist, you must complete a Doctor of Physical Therapy degree program. As of 2014, there were 228 physical therapy programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), most of which last three years. 
In order to become a physical therapist assistant you will need to obtain at least a two-year associate’s degree, which allows you to work under the direction and supervision of a PT. What is the average salary for a Physical Therapist Assistant? According to the APTA (American Physical Therapy Association) the median income for a PTA is $70,000 depending on position, years of experience, degree of education, geographic location, and practice setting.
Once you have a Bachelor's degree, you'll need to apply to a physical therapy postgraduate program. You can get a Master's or a Ph.D in physical therapy, and only these advanced degrees are accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE). There are several stages of education you'll need to pass through to become a physical therapist. First, you'll need a Bachelor's degree to get into a postgraduate physical therapy program. It doesn't matter what your Bachelor's is, although it's recommended that you take classes in biology, anatomy, social science, and math. It generally takes about four years to earn a Bachelor's
In many states, however, you need to obtain a minimum of an associate's degree to work as a physical therapist assistant. After completing the necessary educational requirements, you may need to successfully complete an examination in order to obtain licensing as a physical therapist assistant. There are several stages of education you'll need to pass through to become a physical therapist. First, you'll need a Bachelor's degree to get into a postgraduate physical therapy program. It doesn't matter what your Bachelor's is, although it's recommended that you take classes in biology, anatomy, social science, and math. It generally takes about four years to earn a Bachelor's
Physical therapist assistant (PTA) education, obtained in a CAPTE-accredited two-year associate degree program, prepares graduates for taking the national licensure examination and entering the field of physical therapy with the required knowledge, skills, and behaviors of a PTA. 
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a physical therapist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensing to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». 
Physical therapist (PT) professional education refers to the didactic and clinical education that prepares graduates for entry into practice of physical therapy. Education for the advancement of practicing physical therapists is termed post-professional. Without a license you will be unable to practice. Check APTA's accredited programs directory and the Physical Therapist Centralized Application Service (PTCAS) websites for a list and descriptions of DPT education programs.
Physical Therapist Degree. Professional (entry-level) physical therapist education programs in the United States only offer the Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) degree to all new students who enroll. Without a license you will be unable to practice. Check APTA's accredited programs directory and the Physical Therapist Centralized Application Service (PTCAS) websites for a list and descriptions of DPT education programs.