You can increase the B vitamins in your diet by taking vitamin supplements and by consuming healthly, natural foods such as spinach and other dark, leafy greens; broccoli, asparagus, strawberries, melons, black beans, leeks, and other legumes, citrus fruits such as oranges and grapefruit, and soybeans. ANTIOXIDANTS.
Vitamins. There’s no good evidence that vitamin supplements can delay or prevent mental decline. One exception: a deficiency of vitamin B12 can cause confusion and memory loss, and may be misdiagnosed as Alzheimer’s. In such cases, large doses of B12, under a doctor’s supervision, may help.
Vitamin B Sources. The B vitamins are important for a range of functions that maintain the health of the brain and improve your memory. BBC Health notes that they work together to provide energy, maintain nerve health and produce chemicals your brain requires for healthy function.
Scientists have long been researching the relation between low levels of B12 (cobalamin) and memory loss. According to a Mayo Clinic expert, enough B12 in your diet can help improve memory. However, if you get adequate B12, there is no evidence that higher intake can bring positive effects.
Dr. Oz, the Emmy Award-winning doctor, television host and author, recently joined me on Mondays with Marlo, and I just had to ask him what vitamins if there were any supplements that help to improve your memory.
There is some evidence to suggest that vitamin E can benefit the mind and memory in older people. A recent study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that high amounts of vitamin E can help people with mid-level Alzheimer’s disease.
Vitamin B12. Scientists have long been researching the relation between low levels of B12 (cobalamin) and memory loss. According to a Mayo Clinic expert, enough B12 in your diet can help improve memory. However, if you get adequate B12, there is no evidence that higher intake can bring positive effects.
Studies have shown that the antioxidant properties of vitamin E can help protect nerve cells in the brain from damage. There is also evidence that vitamin E can keep nerve cells in the brain from dying after suffering a stroke. Vitamin E has also been found to improve the memory function of the elderly.