Cumbre Vieja (Spanish: Old Summit) is an active though dormant volcanic ridge on the volcanic ocean island of Isla de La Palma in the Canary Islands, Spain, that erupted twice in the 20th century – in 1949, and again in 1971. La Palma is a volcanic ocean island, located on the African Plate and is currently-along with Tenerife, one of the most volcanically active of the Canary Islands Historical eruptions on the Cumbre Vieja occurred in 1470, 1585, 1646, 1677, 1712, 1949 and 1971.
Canary Islands Geography. The Canary Islands are an archipelago situated off the coast of Africa, and are the remaining cones of long-extinct volcanoes, some of which are very steep. There are seven large islands and numerous smaller islands that collectively make up the Canary Islands. Nearly a third of the island of Gran Canaria, known as continent in miniature due to its diverse landscape, is protected as a Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO. The lowest point of the Canary Islands is the Atlantic Ocean (0 m). 1  Bodies of Water of Europe. 2  Landforms of Europe.
The islands include (frae lairgest tae smawest): Tenerife, Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, La Palma, La Gomera, El Hierro, La Graciosa, Alegranza, Isla de Lobos, Montana Montaña, Clara roque Del este An roque Del. Oeste The Canary islands are legally recognizit as a naitionality O. spain 
Geography. The Canary Islands are situated between 96km (60 miles) and 304km (189 miles) off the northwest coast of Africa. The southern coast of Spain lies 1,120km (696 miles) south. Las Palmas comprises the islands of Gran Canaria, Fuerteventura and Lanzarote. 
The semi-arid island of Fuerteventura lies just 52 nautical miles off the coast of Morocco. Geographically closer to Africa than to mainland Spain, Fuerteventura is the second largest Canary Island, just after Tenerife. Fuerteventura’s geography. The seven islands that make up the Canary Islands archipelago are Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, Fuerteventura, La Gomera, La Palma and El Hierro. They stretch from east to west in a 500km arch. The island of Fuerteventura is the second largest and measures 1660km2 (including the island of Los Lobos)
Geography. Gran Canaria is the most southerly of the seven Canary Islands and lies in the Atlantic Ocean approximately 217km (135 miles) off the border between Morocco and Western Sahara, and 1,150km (715 miles) from the Iberian Peninsula. The highest point on Gran Canaria is Pico de las Nieves at 1,949m (6,394ft).
Yep, they belong to Spain *so technically part of EU ~ but Canary Islands are off the coast of Morocco so geographically its mid-atlantic islands close to north west Africa... All seven of the Islands, Tenerife, Lanzarote, Fuertenventura, Gran Canaria, La Gomera, La Palma and El Hierro belong to Spain.
The Canary Islands – the Canary Islands is a Spanish archipelago just off the northeast coast West African continent, located 100 km west of the border between Morocco and Western Sahara. The Canary Islands are a Spanish autonomous community and an outer zone of the European Union. The islands are (largest to smallest): Tenerife, Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, La Palma, La Gomera, El Hierro, La Graciosa, Alegranza, Isla de Lobos Montana Montaña, Clara roque Del este And roque Del. oeste The name Islas Canarias is likely derived from the Latin Insula Canaria, meaning “Island of the Dogs”, a name applied originally only to Gran Canaria. According to the historian Pliny the Elder, called King Juba II of Mauritania, Canary Island, because he is “very important, many of Annex dogs.”.