Eligible employees are also entitled to take leave to care for a covered service member or recent veteran with a serious injury or illness if the employee is the service member's spouse, son, daughter, parent or next of kin.
The federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) gives eligible employees the right to take time off work, without pay, for certain health conditions and caregiving responsibilities. However, not every company, every employee, or every reason for leave is protected by the FMLA.
You must also provide your employer with enough information to determine that you qualify for an FMLA leave. If your leave is for your own or a family member's serious health condition, your employer will probably ask you to provide a certification from the health care provider.
The federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) gives employees the right to take time off work for certain reasons, but not every employee is eligible for FMLA leave -- and not every employer has to comply with the law.
Employees are eligible to take FMLA leave if they have worked for their employer for at least 12 months, have worked for at least 1,000 hours over the previous 12 months, and work at a location with at least 50 employees.
Sometimes events in life force employees to miss work for periods that last longer than the amount of sick leave or vacation time that the employee has accrued. The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) recognizes this, and allows eligible employees to take unpaid leave for up to 12 weeks in a 12-month period.
1 have worked for that employer for at least 12 months; and. 2  have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12 months prior to the start of the FMLA leave; and, 3  work at a location where at least 50 employees are employed at the location or within 75 miles of the location.
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period to attend to the serious health condition of the employee, parent, spouse or child, or for pregnancy or care of a newborn child, or for adoption or foster care of a child.
The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides certain employees with up to 12 workweeks of unpaid, job-protected leave a year, and requires group health benefits to be maintained during the leave as if employees continued to work instead of taking leave.
An eligible employee may also take up to 26 workweeks of leave during a single 12-month period to care for a covered servicemember with a serious injury or illness, when the employee is the spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin of the servicemember.