There are 3 buttercream icing consistencies used for piping techniques when decorating with buttercream, and you need to know what consistencies work best for the different types of cake decorations.
Piping Icing. Piping icing is similar to toothpaste in consistency. When you squeeze the bag, it should come out in a smooth line without breaking or cracking. I most often use this consistency for outlining, detail work, and writing. You can see my video on piping consistency icing HERE.
This is the icing consistency I get the most questions about. First of all, there is no special recipe for twenty-second icing. It regular royal icing thinned with water. I most often use this consistency to create dimension, decrease prep and decorating time, and to prevent cratering when filling small spaces.
The thin frosting is also used for icing the surface of the cake. 1  To create a thin consistency frosting, add 1 teaspoon of Karo syrup and 1 teaspoon of milk to the stiff consistency frosting. 2  The thin consistency frosting should droop slightly more than the medium consistency.
Directions. 1  This royal icing is piping consistency… but you may still need to add a little more powdered sugar to thicken, or a few drops of water to make it thinner, depending on the consistency you are going for. 2  This recipe can also be halved. 3  Add meringue powder to warm water in your mixing bowl.
The consistency of the frosting is very important when decorating cakes, cupcakes, and cookies. You will want to use different consistencies for doing different types of decorating to make the job easier.
Thin Consistency. A thin consistency is used for frosting the cake, and for decorating with the smaller round tips for piping/writing letters or doing outlines, dots, swirls, piping stringwork, lattice, vines, etc. Watch the video below to see what buttercream icing consistencies look like.
Buttercream Frosting is a type of frosting that is easy to work with when decorating cakes and the consistency can be adjusted as necessary. Shown below is a recipe for Decorator's Buttercream Frosting and information on how and when you may need to adjust the consistency when decorating cakes.
1 This royal icing is piping consistency… but you may still need to add a little more powdered sugar to thicken, or a few drops of water to make it thinner, depending on the consistency you are going for. 2  This recipe can also be halved. 3  Add meringue powder to warm water in your mixing bowl.