Cook Pork and Pork Products to an internal temperature of at least 155°F. Pork ordered medium should be cooked to at least 155°F. Pork ordered well done should be cooked to at least 170°F. Temperatures should be taken at the thickest portion of pork. Meat should be firm, not mushy. Juices should be clear, not pink. Cook Eggs and Foods Containing Raw Eggs to an internal temperature of at least 145°F. This requirement does not apply to foods made with pasteurized eggs. Temperatures should be taken in the center of the egg-containing food. Cooked egg whites and yolks should be firm after cooking, not runny..
Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly. 
The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) recommends cooking ground beef, pork and lamb patties or mixtures such as meat loaf to 160°F. Whole pork cuts such as chops and roasts should be cooked to 145°F (medium), or 170°F (well done). 1 All meat should be thawed before cooking in the microwave (even it is thawed in the microwave) to produce a high quality product. 2  For safety reasons, do not cook poultry from the frozen state. 3  Arrange meat uniformly in the cookware. 4  Boneless meat cooks most evenly so debone large pieces of meat.
If you are cooking at high temps, carryover can be up to 10°F. If you are cooking at low temps, it might not go up the full 5°F. But 5°F is a good rule of thumb for most roasts. Medium rare is the best temp for beef, lamb, venison steaks, roasts, and duck breasts. Food scientists have equipment to measure tenderness and juiciness. But at that temp, it takes at least two hours to kill them to 7D. The time gets lower as the temperature goes higher. So beef at 140°F degrees will get to a 7D kill rate in just 12 minutes, while at 160°F degrees, pathogens are destroyed in just 7.3 seconds, hence the USDA guidelines for the consumer.
Cooking Raw meat and poultry should always be cooked to a safe minimum internal temperature. When roasting meat and poultry, use an oven temperature no lower than 325 °F. Use a food thermometer to assure that meat and poultry have reached a safe minimum internal temperature. • Cook all raw beef, pork, lamb and veal steaks, chops, and roasts to a minimum internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming.
Report Abuse. Bacteria need time, food and moisture to grow. They do not grow well unless they are in the danger zone which is between 40-140. Some bacteria are found naturally in food. They can be killed if the food is cooked to the correct temperature. BUT.....some bacteria produce poisons. (when left in the danger zone) heating the food will kill the bacteria. However, the poisons will not be destroyed and can still cause a foodborne illness
1 Use a food thermometer to measure the internal temperature of cooked foods. 2  Check the internal temperature in several places to make sure that the meat, poultry, seafood, eggs or dishes containing eggs are cooked to safe minimum internal temperatures as shown in the Safe Cooking Temperatures Chart. To chill foods properly: 1  Refrigerate or freeze meat, poultry, eggs, seafood and other perishables within 2 hours of cooking or purchasing. 2  Refrigerate within 1 hour if the temperature outside is above 90ºF. 3  Never thaw food at room temperature, such as on the counter top.
Marinated Grilled Steak. The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
According to USDA, ribs are done when they are 145°F internal temp, but they may still be tough. If you take them up to 180°F, drop the oven temp to about 180°F and hold them at this temp for about 30 minutes, the collagens and fats melt some more at this temp and make the meat more tender and juicy. On most cookers, when the oven temp is 225°F at sea level, it takes about three to four hours to cook a slab of baby backs and about five to six hours to cook a slab of St. Louis cut ribs or spares. They are slightly undercooked at that stage.
If you’re going to use a meat thermometer, you want to be sure your thermometer is accurate. You can test it for accuracy easily by inserting the thermometer two inches into boiling water. At sea level, it should read 212°F. It will be 2°F lower than 212°F for every 1,000 feet above sea level. 1 All meat should be thawed before cooking in the microwave (even it is thawed in the microwave) to produce a high quality product. 2  For safety reasons, do not cook poultry from the frozen state. 3  Arrange meat uniformly in the cookware. 4  Boneless meat cooks most evenly so debone large pieces of meat.