Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the minerals calcite and aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3). Like most other sedimentary rocks, most limestone is composed of grains. Most grains in limestone are skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral or foraminifera. Other carbonate grains comprising limestones are ooids, peloids, intraclasts, and extraclasts.
Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Limestone is a sedimentary rock sourced from shallow waters. Crushed limestone is used for a number of landscaping purposes including backfill for retaining wall, a base for pavement and paving a casual driveway. It’s simple to work with and provides an attractive contrast to plants and grass. 
Crushed limestone can be used for a variety of purposes, and whatever the project, Shoreline Aggregate has the type of crushed limestone that you need. All our limestone products can be ordered by the ton, yard or load. Crushed limestone is used for numerous construction projects ranging from building bridges to creating drainage or providing fill material. Our customers have used our top quality limestone for: 1  Constructing highways, airport runways, and railways. 2  Building bridges, homes, hospitals and schools.
Limestone is an essential additive of Portland cement. The cement plays a vital role when it comes to the components in construction. Limestone, in construction, has a lot of uses. When it is crushed, it can be used for base in railroads and for foundations. Limestone is a sedimentary rock that is formed during the sedimentation process within lake floors, oceans and caves. This rock is composed of the minerals aragonite and calcites, which are the calcium carbonate’s crystal forms. A high calcium limestone has a mass of 95% of calcium carbonate.
Crushed Limestone Uses. You’d be amazed at the number of ways that crushed limestone can be used for either functional or decorative purposes, including: 1  Making Concrete – Concrete is a combination of cement, water, sand and crushed aggregate. 1 Limestone that has been crushed down to size is ideal as it’s affordable, reliable and offers a smooth and easy ride. 2  Pipe Bedding – Crushed lime aggregate is frequently used for bedding underground pipes. 3  The material is a top pick because it’s able to level and support the pipe.
1 Roofing Granules – When crushed down to a fine particle size, crushed limestone is frequently used as a coating for asphalt impregnated shingles and roofing. 2  The material helps to deflect heat and to protect roofing against the elements. 1 Limestone that has been crushed down to size is ideal as it’s affordable, reliable and offers a smooth and easy ride. 2  Pipe Bedding – Crushed lime aggregate is frequently used for bedding underground pipes. 3  The material is a top pick because it’s able to level and support the pipe.
Some additional but also important uses of limestone include: Dimension Stone: Limestone is often cut into blocks and slabs of specific dimensions for use in construction and in architecture. It is used for facing stone, floor tiles, stair treads, window sills and many other purposes. Limestone is by definition a rock that contains at least 50% calcium carbonate in the form of calcite by weight. All limestones contain at least a few percent other materials. These can be small particles of quartz, feldspar, clay minerals, pyrite, siderite and other minerals.
Limestone has numerous uses: as a building material, as aggregate for the base of roads, as white pigment or filler in products such as toothpaste or paints, and as a chemical feedstock. Like most other sedimentary rocks, most limestone is composed of grains. Most grains in limestone are skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral or foraminifera. Other carbonate grains comprising limestones are ooids, peloids, intraclasts, and extraclasts.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) in the form of the mineral calcite. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris. Limestone is by definition a rock that contains at least 50% calcium carbonate in the form of calcite by weight. All limestones contain at least a few percent other materials. These can be small particles of quartz, feldspar, clay minerals, pyrite, siderite and other minerals.
Most of the limestone that is mined is crushed for aggregate. The majority of U.S. crushed stone production has come from limestone for at least the last 40 years. This is true even though carbonate rocks are only 25 to 35% of the rocks at the surface. Limestone is used in construction almost everywhere. In 2007, crushed limestone was 68% of all crushed rock produced in the United States. Also, limestone is the key ingredient in making Portland cement. Despite our Nation's abundance of limestone, there have been cement shortages in recent years.