Despite what Nasor says, DNA is a surprisingly robust chemical. If you were to damage the DNA, which would be easy, you could prevent entire genomic sequencing. However, the type of genetic analysis that CSI does is on very small, well known regions of DNA, so partially fragmented DNA may not be a problem. However, DNA or not, this compound binds the heme group in hemoglobbin(more like the iron atoms in that protein) found in blood cells so it wouldn’t matter one way or the other if DNA were present or not. So you spray it on, let it set, and turn the lights out.
DNA can be damaged in a number of ways. Although the level or type of damage may not affect your experiments, sometimes enough damage can be sustained to ruin them. Forearmed is fore-warned so here are 5 ways that your DNA can be damaged. Now you can do your best to ensure that any damage is minimised, giving your experiment the best chance of working.
“But we found that if it isn’t removed properly it destroys the DNA that originally encoded it.”. A study published by Cimprich and colleagues in Molecular Cell in 2009 alerted researchers to the importance of RNA in DNA damage. Norbert von der Groeben. Enzymes inside cells that normally repair damaged DNA sometimes wreck it instead, researchers at the Stanford University School of Medicine have found. The insight could lead to a better understanding of the causes of some types of cancer and neurodegenerative disease.
These DNase enzymes are located in the cytoplasm (not the nucleus). Their function is to destroy foreign DNA from viruses that try to enter the cell. The nuclear membrane normally protects the DNA from the DNases. Adding the detergent destroys the nuclear membrane and exposes the DNA. 
The only way to destroy DNA beyond the possibility of typing would be to burn it to ash at very high temperature for a long time. I just know this because it's logical. In truth the DNA is still there but they can't get a DNA sample. Hair is a good place to get DNA it's burned can't get a sample. If the body is burned bad enough you can't get a sample at all. They swab the cheeck for a sample is the cheek is burned can't get one.
Mature human red blood cells do not have nucleii, and therefore no DNA. From a bloodsplatter, the amount of available DNA would be locked up in phages and tissues that got torn loose. However, DNA or not, this compound binds the heme group in hemoglobbin(more like the iron atoms in that protein) found in blood cells so it wouldn’t matter one way or the other if DNA were present or not. So you spray it on, let it set, and turn the lights out.
Bill – DNA is very, very tough and it “lives” inside cells. Bleach can destroy DNA, but doesn’t always degrade it down to individual nucleotides, which wouldn’t be testable. It really takes a lot of the chemical to totally beat forensic DNA dyes. Some scientists use bleach to wipe down their workstations between DNA tests to prevent cross-contamination and sample mixtures. 
Forensic DNA: Compromised Evidence. Biological samples collected from crime scenes, mass disasters, and missing persons cases may have been exposed to harsh environmental conditions such as heat, direct sunlight, and water that break down the chemical structure of DNA. 
Cooling protects the DNA. There are DNases (enzymes that destroy DNA) in the cell's cytoplasm. The DNA is usually protected from DNases by the nuclear membrane, but that is destroyed by the soap. Cooling slows down the DNases, just like it would any enzymatic reaction. DNases are in our cells to protect us from foreign DNA (like viruses). The soap destroys the cell and nuclear membranes, allowing the DNA to get out. There is also salt in the extraction solution, which causes the proteins and carbohydrates to precipitate, while the DNA remains in solution. 4. Cool the kiwi mixture in the ice bath for a minute. Then mush the kiwi more.
DNA is a nucleic acid consisting of a nitrogenous heterocyclic base, a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group. DNA can be destroyed by the same substances that can destroy other human tissue-intense heat, strong ionizing radiation, a strong base such as sodium hydroxide, or a strong acid such as hydrofluoric acid. 