1 adj If you describe memories and descriptions as vivid, you mean that they are very clear and detailed. People of my generation who lived through World War II have vivid memories of confusion and incompetence..., On Wednesday night I had a very vivid dream which really upset me. ♦ vividly adv usu ADV with v, also ADV adj I can vividly remember the feeling of panic. 2 adj Something that is vivid is very bright in colour. ...a vivid blue sky. ♦ vividly adv ADV-ed/adj ...vividly coloured birds. Translation English Cobuild Collins Dictionary &nbsp. See also: vividly, viva, vivacity, vivisection. colligation. colligation. n. 1. the state of being joined together 2. in logic, the connection of isolated facts by means of a general description or hypothesis which applies to them all
adj. 1. (of a colour) very bright; having a very high saturation or purity; produced by a pure or almost pure colouring agent. 2. brilliantly coloured: vivid plumage. 3. conveying to the mind striking realism, freshness, or trueness to life; graphic: a vivid account. 3. presenting the appearance, freshness, spirit, etc., of life; realistic: a vivid account. 4. strong, distinct, or clearly perceptible: a vivid recollection. 5. forming distinct and striking mental images: a vivid imagination.
If you have studied Roman numerals, you might see something special about the word vivid. It is spelled with letters that are all Roman numerals. (V equals 5, I equals 1, and D equals 500.) Some other words spelled with letters that are Roman numerals are dill, mill, livid, civil, and civic. vivid suggests an impressing on the mind of the vigorous aliveness of something. picturesque suggests the presentation of a striking or effective picture composed of features notable for their distinctness and charm.
You use vivid description when you describe something, whatever it may be. And… yeah, you knew it, here’s a note (seems I can’t do without one): Note : – Vivid description is undesirable in some cases. Too much of a good thing is usually a bad thing (once again!). If you want to use vivid description, then you want to play with all the senses. Don’t just say the wind is fast. Compare it with something that the readers are familiar with. As an example, compare these two sentences: The wind was very fast.
Vivid Description – What it is. Vivid description is writing which makes you feel as if you are standing there, right there where the author has just described something. Vivid description appeals to the senses — eyes, nose, ears, skin, etc. If you want to use vivid description, then you want to play with all the senses. Don’t just say the wind is fast. Compare it with something that the readers are familiar with. As an example, compare these two sentences: The wind was very fast.
Save. vivid /ˈvɪvəd/ adjective. vivid. /ˈvɪvəd/. adjective. Learner's definition of VIVID. [more vivid; most vivid]. 1. of a picture, memory, etc. : seeming like real life because it is very clear, bright, or detailed. ◊ If you have a vivid imagination, you can imagine things that are not real very clearly and easily. He gave a vivid description of the scene. The book includes many vivid illustrations. The dream was very vivid. She could remember the dream in vivid detail. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples
adjective. Vivid is a child's imagination. Vivid is a child's imagination. The definition of vivid is something that is bright, intense or full of life. An example of vivid is the imagination of a child.
vivid adjective. B2 Vivid ​descriptions, ​memories, etc. ​produce very ​clear, ​powerful, and ​detailed ​images in the ​mind: He gave a very vivid and often ​shocking ​account/​description of his ​time in ​prison. vivid adjective. › ​brightly ​colored or (of ​descriptions or ​memories) ​producing ​clear, ​powerful, and detailed ​images in the ​mind: vivid ​colors vivid ​memories. vividly adverb us /ˈvɪv·ɪd·li/ › The ​author vividly ​describes his early ​life on the ​farm.
How to use vivid description. If you want to use vivid description, then you want to play with all the senses. Don’t just say the wind is fast. Compare it with something that the readers are familiar with. As an example, compare these two sentences: The wind was very fast. The wind was as fast as a trai