The most common issue with your car, in no power to the PCM, is a loss of ground to the CCRM, which causes the power relay not to kick on. You find the CCRM ground wire at the battery ground cable, right at the battery. It will be the smaller gauge black wire coming off of the cable. 1 The relay does not have parts located on it. 2  Because of this, the repair turns into a simple repla…. 3  Important Home Theater Abbreviations: What Does PCM Stand For PCM is the technological standard for digitally translating analogue audio signals into digital audio signals.
I was told by the dealer that inside the box is the fuel pump relay.   The Constant Control Relay Module (CCRM) interfaces with the Power Control Module (PCM) to provide control of the cooling fan, A/C Clutch and fuel pump. 1 The relay does not have parts located on it. 2  Because of this, the repair turns into a simple repla…. 3  Important Home Theater Abbreviations: What Does PCM Stand For PCM is the technological standard for digitally translating analogue audio signals into digital audio signals.
PCM (Power Train Control Module). The powertrain or engine control module is a powerful computer that manages the engine’s ignition, fuel injection, and emission systems. In some vehicles, it may also control the operation of the automatic transmission and the anti-lock brake system. Symptoms of Wear or Failure.
What would cause the PCM relay below the dash to Click continously and not allow any power to any part of the truck, it was running great last night and come out this morning and all it is doing is clicking and when i try to start I have no power to anything in the truck except overhead dome switchable lights. 
the PCM relay is mounted above the PCM in the passenger kick panel, take a flash light and look good ...it should be mounted to the white plastic holder for the compute … r. 4 people found this useful. On a 2001 Ford Ranger: In the Power Distribution Box (which is  live ) located in the engine compartment, on the drivers side (the # 54 relay is the relay for the Power … train Control Module / PCM). + 1 other found this useful. Chuck Grantham.
If there are no reference pulses, the PCM turns the fuel pump off after about 2-3 seconds. The PCM controls the fuel pump relay by applying B+ to the control circuit via an internal switch called a driver. The primary function of the driver is to supply a voltage to the fuel pump relay. The driver has a fault line which the PCM monitors. 
Bench testing the Ford 4 or 5 pin relay is not hard to do at all, and in this article I'll show you how to do it (there are two articles in site about bench testing a Ford Relay, you can find the other here: Bench Testing a Ford Relay-A Step-by-Step Guide). 
The ignition system / spark is controlled by the PCM. There is a PCM relay in the battery junction box-the box with fuses and relays near the battery. The crankshaft sensor is also one to have a look at to make sure it is sending the signal. Upvote (3).
On a 2001 Ford Ranger: In the Power Distribution Box (which is  live ) located in the engine compartment, on the drivers side (the # 54 relay is the relay for the Power … train Control Module / PCM). + 1 other found this useful. Chuck Grantham. 1 The relay does not have parts located on it. 2  Because of this, the repair turns into a simple repla…. 3  Important Home Theater Abbreviations: What Does PCM Stand For PCM is the technological standard for digitally translating analogue audio signals into digital audio signals.