Viscose or more commonly known as Rayon, was made to substitute for the more expensive silk fiber. Though rayon is considered to be synthetic it is made from tree cellulose. 1 Viscose is manufactured by treating purified cellulose in caustic soda solution to form a salt of soda cellulose. 2  It is pressed to remove excess caustic soda. 3  the soda cellulose is then squeezed and shredded to increase the surface area so as to make it more pliable to processing.
Regular or viscose rayon is the most prevalent, versatile and successful type of rayon. It can be blended with man-made or natural fibers and made into fabrics of varying weight and texture. It is also highly absorbent, economical and comfortable to wear. Today rayon is one of the most widely used fabrics in our society. It is made in countries around the world. It can be blended with natural or man-made fabrics, treated with enhancements, and even engineered to perform a variety of functions.
While cotton and rayon fibers are both made from the same polymer (cellulose), cotton’s cellulose is grown in five to six months by plants. 
Rayon fiber is produced from the ripened viscose solutions by treatment with a mineral acid, such as sulfuric acid. Viscose rayon is a fiber of regenerated cellulose; it is structurally similar to cotton but may be produced from a variety of plants such as soy, bamboo, and sugar cane. Cellulose is a linear polymer of β-D-glucose units with the empirical formula (C 6 H 10 O 5) n. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.
Byproducts of the production process include sodium thiocarbonate, sodium carbonate, and sodium sulfide. Viscose rayon fiber is a soft fiber commonly used in dresses, linings, shirts, shorts, coats, jackets, and other outer wear; it is also used in industrial yarns (tyre cord), upholstery and carpets. It is also used in the casting of Cellophane.
Viscose is pretty much the opposite of polyester in every way. Viscose is a kind of rayon that is not made from polymers like polyester is. Viscose is a regenerated cellulose fiber (meaning that it's made from plant material) more like cotton or linen. Viscose rayon is a medium-weight fiber with fair to good strength and abrasion resistance.... 
The World of. VISCOSE. Viscose fiber is made from purified cellulose, it is produced from specially processed wood pulp. Viscose is very similar to cotton and silk. It is a fine and soft material commonly used in t-shirts, tunics, shirts and dresses ,all of them ,includes cellulose. viscose cotton; Same with the one above. viscose fiber; The Fiber which is produced from the celulose of Special Trees. viscose fibre; Same with the one above. viscose material; The Fabric made from Viscose Fibre.
Best Answer: Viscose rayon is made by converting purified cellulose to xanthate, dissolving the xanthate in dilute caustic soda and then regenerating the cellulose from the product as it emerges from the spinneret. Most rayon is made by the viscose process. Viscose Process Most commercial rayon manufacturing today utilizes the viscose process. This process dates to the early 1900s, with most of the growth in production occurring between 1925 and 1955. In the early period, production was mainly textile filament, although the first staple was produced in 1916.
Viscose is defined by BISFA as being a cellulose fibre obtained by the viscose process. It is known as rayon fibre in the USA. Although several cellulosic fibres had been made experimentally during the 19th century, it was not until 1905 that what has become the most popular cellulosic fibre, viscose, was produced. There are several fibres made from the naturally occurring polymer cellulose, which is present in all plants. Mostly cellulose from wood is used to produce the fibres but sometimes cellulose from short cotton fibres, called linters, is the source. By far the most common cellulosic fibre is viscose fibre.
Viscose has come up a lot in this space in the past. We've compared it to purified cotton, and also discussed false labeling claims where viscose rayon was used instead of bamboo. There is some confusion between the two terms. Viscose is actually a type of rayon, even though viscose,viscose rayon, and rayon are often used interchangeably.