From the Roman family name Egnatius, meaning unknown, of Etruscan origin. The spelling was later altered to resemble Latin ignis fire. This was the name of several saints, including the third bishop of Antioch who was thrown to wild beasts by emperor Trajan, and by Saint Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556), founder of the Jesuits, whose real birth name was in fact Íñigo. íñigo Related. names
Meaning of Ignatius. English name. In English, the name Ignatius means-firey one.The name Ignatius originated as an English name. The name Ignatius is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-firey one. Origin-England
Ignatius is used predominantly in the Dutch and English languages, and its origin is Etrusk. The first name is derived from the Roman family name Ignatius (Latin) or Egnatius (Latin), which is possibly of Etruscan origin; it was later linked to the Latin 'ignis'. Ignatius is uncommon as a baby name for boys. At the modest height of its usage in 1906, 0.013% of baby boys were given the name Ignatius. Its ranking then was #553. The baby name has since fallen out of favor, and is currently of very light use
Ignatius is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular surname for all people (#69201 out of 150436, Top 46%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Ignatius for boys. Ignatius entered the list in 1890-1899 and reached its apex position of #614 in the U.S. during the years 1900-1909, but is not in the Top 1000 currently. These boy names were at the apex of their popularity during the years 1910-1919 (usage of 0.3995%) and have become significantly less widespread since, with the forms Ignacio and Ignatius becoming less fashionable.
The nickname IGGY definitely brings Ignatius down to earth. But if you find Ignatius appealing yet can't quite go all the way, you might want to consider Inigo. Ignatius is the middle name of Percy Weasley in the Harry Potter books, and is a major character in John Kennedy Toole's A Confederacy of Dunces. Ignatius, the name of several saints including the founder of the Catholic Jesuit order, was considered more apt to be borne by churches and schools than babies in the recent past, though it was not unusual from the late nineteenth century to 1930; it ranked as high as Number 602 in 1913.
Ignatius /ig-na-tius/ [4 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced eeg-NAH-see-ers. Possibly (Latin)  ardent, burning. Saint Ignatius of Loyola was the founder of the Catholic Jesuit order. These boy names were at the apex of their popularity during the years 1910-1919 (usage of 0.3995%) and have become significantly less widespread since, with the forms Ignacio and Ignatius becoming less fashionable.
Latin Meaning: The name Ignatius is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Ignatius is: Ardent. American Meaning: The name Ignatius is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ignatius is: Ardent. Greek Meaning: The name Ignatius is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Ignatius is: Fiery. Famous Bearers: St Ignatius of Antioch, martyred in the 2nd century.
Ignatius is a male given name of presumed Latin or Etruscan origin, believed to mean fiery one (compare the word ignite). 
Ignacio is a male Spanish name originating either from the Roman family name Egnatius, meaning unknown, of Etruscan origin, or from the Latin name  Ignatius  from the word Ignis meaning fire. 