Populations most at risk for extrapyramidal reactions include young women, children, the elderly, diabetics, patients with neurologic disorders and patients taking concurrent neuroleptic medications. Acute Dystonic Reactions. Acute dystonic reactions are the most frequent extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) from metoclopramide and typically occur within 24–48 h of initiating treatment, thus affecting approximately 0.2–6% of patients taking metoclopramide and the incidence increases with higher doses.
Extrapyramidal symptoms are serious side-effects of antipsychotic and other drugs. Blair DT(1), Dauner A. Author information: (1)Colmery-O'Neil Veterans Administration Medical Center, Topeka, Kan. Comment in Nurse Pract.1993 Feb;18(2):13. Antipsychotic medications commonly produce extrapyramidal symptoms as side effects. The extrapyramidal symptoms include acute dyskinesias and dystonic reactions, tardive dyskinesia, Parkinsonism, akinesia, akathisia, and neuroleptic malignant syndrome.ess recognized is that extrapyramidal symptoms are also associated with certain non-antipsychotic agents, including some antidepressants, lithium, various anticonvulsants, antiemetics and, rarely, oral-contraceptive agents.
Extrapyramidal side effects: Physical symptoms, including tremor, slurred speech, akathesia, dystonia, anxiety, distress, paranoia, and bradyphrenia, that are primarily associated with improper dosing of or unusual reactions to neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medications. 
People taking antipsychotic drugs are at risk of developing certain side effects known as extrapyramidal symptoms. Extrapyramidal symptoms (also known as EPS) are a set of side effects that are common with antipsychotic medications, as well as with a few other types of medications. Extrapyramidal Symptoms. Extrapyramidal symptoms (also known as EPS) are a set of side effects that are common with antipsychotic medications, as well as with a few other types of medications.
Extrapyramidal reaction is a negative reaction that mainly occures with psychotropic medications. It is the activation of the pyramidal pathways which results in abnormal muscle twitching or movement. It may result in anxiety and distress and is not life threatning. Iman Ashour M.D. Report Abuse. This is a medication induced dystonic reaction which means the person suffering the reaction may have a contortion or contraction in their neck muscles or other muscles. The tongue can swell and cause choking. This reaction is very uncomfortable and can be very distressing.
Fortunately, there is help for these symptoms. Extrapyramidal symptoms (also known as EPS) are a set of side effects that are common with antipsychotic medications, as well as with a few other types of medications. Extrapyramidal Symptoms. Extrapyramidal symptoms (also known as EPS) are a set of side effects that are common with antipsychotic medications, as well as with a few other types of medications.
Abstract. Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPSs), such as akathisia, dystonia, psuedoparkinsonism, and dyskinesia, are drug-induced side effects that can be problematic for persons who receive antipsychotic medications (APMs) or other dopamine-blocking agents. 
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), also known as extrapyramidal side effects (EPSE), are drug induced movement disorders that include acute and tardive symptoms. 
Background. Dystonic reactions are reversible extrapyramidal effects that can occur after administration of a neuroleptic drug. Symptoms may begin immediately or can be delayed hours to days. Although a wide variety of medications can elicit symptoms, the typical antipsychotics are most often responsible. 