Please check back later. Profile. Biogen Inc. develops, manufactures, and commercializes therapies, focusing on neurology, oncology, and immunology. The Company's products address diseases such as multiple sclerosis, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and psoriasis. 225 Binney Street
In 2003, Biogen merged with San Diego, California-based IDEC Pharmaceuticals (formed in 1986 by biotech pioneers Ivor Royston and Howard Birndorf) and adopted the name Biogen Idec. After the merge, Biogen Idec became the 3rd largest Biotechnology company in the world. Biogen also has several development agreements in place with Isis Pharmaceuticals to collaborate to leverage antisense technology in advancing the treatment of neurological disorders. In February 2012, Biogen formalized a joint venture with Samsung, creating Samsung Bioepis.
MS causes the body’s immune system to attack myelin, a protective sheath covering nerve fibers. Damage to the myelin “short circuits” communication between the brain, spinal cord and other areas of the body, severely impairing such neurological functions as mobility, vision and thinking. Natalizumab is thought to reduce the inflammatory cells in the brain by blocking the lymphocytic infiltration, known to occur in the brain following stroke, which may reduce the extent of injury. Anti-alpha Synuclein mAb (BIIB054). Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is a disorder of the central nervous system.
The program was very competitive, with proposals requesting more than $280,000 submitted for consideration. We are excited to announce that the Biogen Idec Foundation will continue this program in 2014 for districts represented at this year’s MA STEM Summit. Biogen Idec Foundation awarded a total of $50,000 to 13 schools and teachers through the Ignite the Power of STEM Grant Program. The programs funded spanned grades K-12, were geographically dispersed and represented urban and suburban districts.
Biogen is an American global biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, specializing in the discovery, development, and delivery of therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative, hematologic, and autoimmune diseases to patients worldwide. Biogen also has several development agreements in place with Isis Pharmaceuticals to collaborate to leverage antisense technology in advancing the treatment of neurological disorders. In February 2012, Biogen formalized a joint venture with Samsung, creating Samsung Bioepis.
Biogen stock is a component of several stock indices such as the S&P 100, S&P 500, S&P 1500, and NASDAQ-100 and the company is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the ticker symbol, BIIB. Biogen also has several development agreements in place with Isis Pharmaceuticals to collaborate to leverage antisense technology in advancing the treatment of neurological disorders. In February 2012, Biogen formalized a joint venture with Samsung, creating Samsung Bioepis.
Biogen’s Aminogen provides a complete amino acid profile ensuring you take in sufficient essential and non-essential amino acids needed to support protein synthesis and general health. Proteins make up the muscles, ligaments, tendons, organs, glands, nails, hair and are essential for bone growth. Enzymes and hormones that catalyze and regulate all bodily processes are also protein.
Food waste to renewable energy-with Biogen it's all taken care of. Biogen designs, builds, owns and operates commercial scale, anaerobic digestion (AD) plants which recycle food waste to generate renewable energy and a biofertiliser for farmland. Read more..
TECFIDERA has been shown to cut relapses in half, delay the progression of physical disability, and slow the development of brain lesions. During a 2-year study, TECFIDERA cut relapses in half, reducing risk of relapse by 49% compared with placebo. Imagine what you could do with fewer relapses. TECFIDERA is taken as one pill twice a day. Talk to your doctor about TECFIDERA to see if it might be right for you