Government agency. A government or state agency is a permanent or semi-permanent organization in the machinery of government that is responsible for the oversight and administration of specific functions, such as an intelligence agency. There is a notable variety of agency types. 
A government or state agency, often an appointed commission, is a permanent or semi-permanent organization in the machinery of government that is responsible for the oversight and administration of specific functions, such as an intelligence agency. There is a notable variety of agency types. Although usage differs, a government agency is normally distinct both from a department or ministry, and other types of public body established by government.
Every list of federal agencies in government publications is different. ”. Legislative definitions of a federal agency are varied, and even contradictory, and the official United States Government Manual offers no definition. 
A broader definition of the term government agency also means the United States federal executive departments that include the President's cabinet-level departments, and their sub-units. There is a notable variety of agency types. Although usage differs, a government agency is normally distinct both from a department or ministry, and other types of public body established by government.
A government agency may be established by either a national government or a state government within a federal system. The term is not normally used for an organization created by the powers of a local government body. Agencies can be established by legislation or by executive powers. There is a notable variety of agency types. Although usage differs, a government agency is normally distinct both from a department or ministry, and other types of public body established by government.
DEFINITION of 'Agency Bond'. A bond issued by a government agency. These bonds are not fully guaranteed in the same way as U.S. Treasury and municipal bonds.
DEFINITION of 'Federal Agencies'. Special government organizations set up for a specific purpose such as the management of resources, financial oversight of industries or national security issues. These organizations are typically created by legislative action, but may initially be set up by a presidential order as well
The Government of Alberta's Public Agencies Governance Framework (Framework) defines an agency as a board, commission, tribunal or other organization: 1  established by government but not part of a government department; 2  that has been given responsibility to perform a public function; 3  that is accountable to government; 
In response, supporters of administrative agencies note that agencies are created and overseen by elected officials or the president. Agencies are created by an enabling statute, which is a state or federal law that gives birth to the agency and outlines the procedures for the agency's rule making. The thirteen executive departments reporting to the president are administrative agencies. For example, the department of justice is a cabinet-level executive department, but it functions as the administrative agency that addresses the legal concerns of the U.S. government and its people.
Definition. A security, usually a bond, issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency. The offerings of these agencies are backed by the government, but not guaranteed by the government since the agencies are private entities. Such agencies have been set up in order to allow certain groups of people to access low cost financing e.g. students and home buyers.