Cauda equina syndrome is caused by the compression of nerves in the lumbar spine and a narrowing of the spinal canal. Fig 1: Spine nerve roots. (larger view). Cauda equina syndrome is a relatively rare but serious condition that describes extreme pressure and swelling of the nerves at the end of the spinal cord.
Cauda equina syndrome is a condition that can cause radiculopathy. It is sometimes referred to as CES for short. The issue is neurological in nature, and affects the patient's lumbar plexus by way of acute function loss. Signs and symptoms. Radiculopathy is one of the symptoms that may show up when a person has cauda equina syndrome. However, other symptoms and medical signs may also be present. As an example, both legs may be affected by weakness and pain. Additionally, both ankles can lose their reflexes
Lower Body Symptoms. If a herniated disc pushes against a nerve root in the cauda equina that controls your lower body, the symptoms of cauda equina syndrome can appear in your buttocks, your groin, the insides of your thighs, the rear of your thighs or calves, or in your heels or other portions of your feet. Pelvic Symptoms. In your pelvic region, herniated disc-related cauda equina syndrome can damage the nerves that normally give you the ability to control your bowels and bladder. In fact, compromised bowel or bladder function is one of the most likely consequences of excessive pressure on your cauda equina.
Sudden onset of cauda equina syndrome is a medical emergency requiring surgery to avoid long-term neurological damage. Complications Some complications of Cauda equina may also be considered symptoms. Complications may include radiculopathy, back pain, urine incontinence, neurogenic bladder or fecal incontinence. Page Content. Cauda equine syndrome is an extreme version of nerve compression or inflammation of the nerve roots in the lower portion of the spinal canal. Cauda equina syndrome can cause symptoms of pain, altered reflexes, decreased strength, and decreased sensation.
Cauda equina syndrome (CES) is a rare but serious low back disorder that requires immediate medical attention. In the lumbar spine (low back) the spinal cord ends and separates into a bundle of nerves. Cauda equina syndrome may be caused by a herniated disc, lumbar tumor, infection in the low back, or lumbar spinal stenosis. Traumatic injury may also cause or contribute to the development of CES; such as falling, car collision, or penetrating injuries (eg, gunshot, stabbing).
Dr Henry Knipe ◉ et al. Cauda equina syndrome (CES) refers to a collection of symptoms and signs that result from severe compression of the descending lumbar and sacral nerve roots. It is considered a diagnostic and surgical emergency. 
Cauda equina syndrome develops when the spinal canal is blocked by some type of mass and this set of nerves undergoes significant compression. A massive herniated disc in the lumbar spine is the normal cause of this compression. Other causes of compression that can produce cauda equina syndrome are tumors or fractures. 
Symptoms and Diagnosis. Symptoms of cauda equina syndrome include pain in the lower back, pain in one or both legs that begins in the buttocks and travels down to the back of the thighs, and bowel and bladder problems. When the spinal cord narrows, it compresses the cauda equina, causing cauda equina syndrome. Compression can occur due to many reasons, including disc herniation, trauma, spinal stenosis, and tumors. It can also be caused by inflammatory or infectious conditions, as well as problems with previous medical procedures.