Sriracha (pronounced sir-rotch-ah or sear-raw-chah) is a bright red hot sauce that’s getting seriously popular. The paste-like sauce—named after Sri Racha, Thailand—is made from chili peppers, vinegar, garlic, sugar, and salt. 
1 Straight: Sriracha’s original use was as a dipping sauce. 2  Squeeze some into a small bowl or squirt it straight from the bottle onto your favorite foods. 3  Sauces: Sriracha’s spicy, tangy flavor pairs wonderfully with creamy dips and sauces. 1 Mix some Sriracha into sour cream, mayonnaise, or cream cheese based dips for a little kick. 2  Soups/Stews: Sriracha is often served with pho in Vietnamese restaurants but you can also try adding it to ramen, tomato soup, or gazpacho. 3  Cream based soups, like chowders, also benefit from Sriracha’s kick.
Sriraja Panich chili sauce by Thai Theparos Food Products (left) and Tương Ớt Sriracha ( Rooster Sauce ) by Huy Fong Foods (right). In Thailand, sriracha is frequently used as a dipping sauce, particularly for seafood. In Vietnamese cuisine, sriracha appears as a condiment for phở, fried noodles, a topping for spring rolls (chả gio), giò and in. sauces In Thailand the sauce is most often called sot Siracha (Thai: ซอสศรีราชา) and only sometimes nam phrik Siracha (Thai: น้ำพริกศรีราชา). Traditional Thai sriracha sauce tends to be tangier in taste, and runnier in texture than non-Thai versions.
6. Huy Fong Foods makes three types of sauce that all start with the same chile mash. A sambal oelek, (if you want to taste the chile), a chili garlic (which is the sambal oelek with garlic from Gilroy, Calif.) and the Sriracha (which is the chili garlic sauce pureed with sugar). Photos: Behind the scenes look at the Sriracha documentary. Here are 11 fun facts from the film: 1. The Huy Fong Foods Sriracha factory in Rosemead used to be owned by Wham-O, the maker of Frisbees and Slip 'n Slides. Before that building filled full with hulla hoop, Huy Fong Foods founder David Tran say in the film.
For other uses, see Sriracha (disambiguation) . For the most notable American brand of Sriracha sauce, see Sriracha sauce (Huy Fong Foods) . Sriracha (Thai: ศรีราชา, [sǐː rāː.t͡ɕʰāː]. ) is a type of hot sauce or chili sauce made from a paste of chili peppers, distilled vinegar, garlic, sugar, and salt. In Thailand the sauce is most often called sot Siracha (Thai: ซอสศรีราชา) and only sometimes nam phrik Siracha (Thai: น้ำพริกศรีราชา). Traditional Thai sriracha sauce tends to be tangier in taste, and runnier in texture than non-Thai versions.
For Sriracha sauce as a general product, see Sriracha sauce. Huy Fong's Sriracha sauce (/ʃriːˈrɑːtʃɑː/ ; Vietnamese: Tương Ớt Sriracha) is an American take on the Sriracha chili sauce, a dipping sauce, thought to originate from Thailand. This sauce is produced by Huy Fong Foods, a California manufacturer. Created in 1980 by Vietnamese-American founder David Tran, it is a brand of Sriracha sauce often also known as rooster sauce, because of the rooster prominently featured on its label. Some cookbooks include recipes using it as their main condiment.
You see, they're just a brand of sriracha, which is a type of hot sauce. Named for the coastal Thai city of Si Racha, the term really just refers to a paste of chili peppers, garlic, sugar, distilled vinegar and salt. 
Share. Show All Items. Impress your Chili Head friends by busting out a bottle of this DIY Sriracha Chile Sauce! Sriracha as we know it today has been popularized by Huy Fong Foods and their big red rooster bottle (complete with a giant rooster logo and bright green cap, making it easy to identify in your fridge). This sauce has a great, addicting flavor -- hot, sweet and garlicky -- and just like the real Rooster Sauce, it tastes awesome on just about anything. Next time, I might try red serranos and a few extra Thai chilies to up the Scoville factor! (recipe adapted from The Sriracha Cookbook by Randy Clemens). Ingredients :