When planting cucumber seeds directly outdoors, wait until the soil warms in the spring. Seeds generally germinate in about 10 days when it's around 70 degrees Fahrenheit. You can safely plant the seeds outdoors about three to four weeks after the last frost in your area.
Most cucumber roots are in the top 12 inches of the soil, but the taproot can grow from 2 to 3 feet deep. Put two or three bush type plants in one container. Wood or plastic containers are better than clay because cucumbers need a lot of water, and clay pots lose a lot of water out the sides.
Spacing & Depth. Plant seeds 1/2 to 1 inch deep and thin the seedlings to one plant every 12 inches in the row or to three plants every 36 inches in the hill system. If you use transplants, plant them carefully in warm soil 12 inches apart in the row.
Now that the cucumber seedlings are ready to plant, it’s time to place them in the hole and cover them with soil. Simply place the cucumber seedling in the hole so that the top of the soil in the peat pot is at the same level as the garden soil. Once the depth is correct simply fill in the hole with soil or compost.
You can start cucumber seeds indoors four to six weeks before the last spring frost in your area. Plant the seeds 1 inch deep in seed starter mix. If you use biodegradable pots, you can set the entire pot into the soil outdoors and avoid disturbing plant roots. Two weeks after the last frost, set the pots in the garden, making sure the pot is below the soil line.
Plant seeds in rows or hills, planting them one to 1 inch deep. When planting in rows, sow cucumber seeds 2  to 3 apart, thinning seedlings to 6 apart.. If you are planting in hills, plant four to five per hill. After they have germinated, keep the best two to three.
Remove leggy cucumber seedlings from their flats gently, and place them on the garden soil. Gauge one seedling's approximate height up to its leaves, and dig one planting hole that depth so that the seedling's entire leggy stem can be buried up to the bottom leaves. Place the seedling in the hole.