Unfortunately, certain chemotherapy drugs can cause nausea and vomiting. Luckily, there are many drugs that your doctor can prescribe to prevent, lessen, or relieve the nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy. These medications are called anti-nausea drugs or anti-emetics.
Thankfully, anti-nausea (anti-emetic) medications for patients receiving chemotherapy have gotten better, and transformed this awful experience into one, well, better tolerated. Let’s hope. Here is the gold standard for controlling nausea and vomiting from chemotherapy.
Serotonin antagonists such as cistplatin inhibit nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy drugs. Anti-emetics including ondansetron, granisetron, tropisetron, and dolesetron are generally administered intravenously before the administration of the chemotherapy drugs and infused over a duration of 15 to 30 minutes.
Most people undergoing chemotherapy receive anti-nausea (anti-emetic) medications to prevent nausea and vomiting. These drugs, given alone or in combination, can be taken in pill form or administered through a vein in your arm. Your doctor advises which to use based on the treatment you're receiving.
Anti-nausea/vomiting medicines. There are many different anti-nausea/vomiting (anti-emetic) medicines. Different types of these drugs work better for some people than for others. To start, you’ll get anti-nausea/vomiting medicines based on which chemotherapy (chemo) drugs you are getting.
Drugs that may be prescribed by your doctor: When suffering from nausea caused by chemotherapy treatments, your doctor may prescribe drugs such as Emend (aprepitant), Zofran (ondansetron), Kytril (granisetron), Anzemet (dolasetron), or Aloxi (palonosetron).
Your doctor may not prescribe any anti-nausea drugs because not all chemotherapy causes nausea and vomiting. However, if the chemotherapy is likely to cause nausea and vomiting, your doctor may prescribe one or more of the following common anti-nausea medications:
After chemotherapy, you may also be given anti-nausea medications to take at home. It’s important to understand how the drugs should be taken. To prevent nausea and vomiting, some medications are designed to be taken for several days, whether you feel nauseous or not.