1 You recognize symptoms of chemical or toxin food poisoning, such as vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, dizziness, tearing in the eyes, excessive salivation, mental confusion, and stomach pain, beginning about 30 minutes after eating contaminated food. 1 Vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, dizziness, tearing in the eyes, excessive salivation, mental confusion, and stomach pain may be symptoms of chemical or toxin food poisoning such as that from poisonous mushrooms.
Clostridium food poisoning symptoms occur about 12 hours after eating the contaminated food and are similar but usually less severe than the other types. Symptoms include stomach pains, diarrhoea and sometimes nausea and vomiting. Symptoms last about 24 hours. Fig. 3.26: Food poisoning comes from harmful bacteria on food. Food poisoning can be caused by eating food contaminated with bacteria, viruses, chemicals or poisonous metals such as lead or cadmium. Most food poisoning, however, is caused by bacteria and because of this, only bacteria will be discussed in this section.
1 Symptoms can last from one day up to a couple of months or longer, depending on the type of infection. 2  Vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, dizziness, tearing in the eyes, excessive salivation, mental confusion, and stomach pain may be symptoms of chemical or toxin food poisoning such as that from poisonous mushrooms. 1
The 3 main ways that cross contamination occurs are: 1. Food to Food. For example meat in the refrigerator drips onto vegetables on the shelf below. 2. Equipment/Utensils to food. For example cutting raw chicken and than using the same knife and cutting board to cut raw vegetables for a salad. 3. People to Food. 
Salmonella. Salmonella bacteria (there are many types) are another major cause of food poisoning in the United States. The most commonly contaminated foods are raw meat (including chicken), raw or undercooked eggs, and unpasteurized milk. Fortunately, salmonella are killed when the food is cooked thoroughly. Symptoms caused by salmonella poisoning start sixteen to forty-eight hours after eating, and may last two to seven days. Article Body. Food poisoning occurs after eating food contaminated by bacteria. The symptoms of food poisoning are basically the same as those of stomach flu: abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and fever.
Three types of contamination are: or. 1  Microbial Contamination. 2  Cross Contamination. 3  Partical Contamination. 4  Contamination-this is when food contains a forgien object. 5  Cross Contamination-this is when harmful bacteria or virus are passed from one food to another. 
Cross-contamination of food is a common factor in the cause of foodborne illness. Foods can become contaminated by microorganisms (bacteria and viruses) from many different sources during the food preparation and storage process. Food can become contaminated by bacteria from other foods. This type of cross-contamination is especially dangerous if raw foods come into contact with cooked foods. Here are some examples of food-to-food cross-contamination: 1  In a refrigerator, meat drippings from raw meat stored on a top shelf might drip onto cooked vegetables placed on lower shelf