Chicks take 21 days to hatch, and a clutch of eggs can take a few days to completely hatch. Mark the date on your calendar! Any adjustments that need to be made should be done at night when she is sleepiest. She will defend those eggs and baby chicks as best she can and she can peck quite hard. 
I have just hatched buff's and I have a chick stuck in the egg its beak is stick out of a hole. I can see the chick is alive and fine, but the chick has been like this of 2 day's and I am worried that it may be stuck in the egg. ty of the info got the chick out of the egg it's fuss was stuck on the egg shell and there for could not get out of egg. Chick is resting and glad to be out of it egg. Just hope he make's it he has been in the egg for 2 days stuck.
Answers. Best Answer: You need to leave the egg alone to hatch, by handling it you decrease the humidity and its vital that 60% humidity is maintained during the 3 days prior to and during hatching. The chick doesn't need a hole in the membrane to breathe. Since your chick was just pipping the blood may not have been shut off from the body quite yet, but if their wasn't to much blood he should be fine. What is a concern is that you opened up the incubator and assisted a hatch. One shouldn’t assist the hatch unless the egg has been pipped for at least a 24-hour period.
1 Otherwise, your more vibrant chicks might peck them to death. 2  You have a way of boosting the humidity in the incubator. 3  Helping means opening the lid more, which can harm your currently hatching chicks. 4  I devised an easy method of increasing the incubator humidity so that the chicks barely noticed me lifting the lid. If you have a stuck chick, how can you help? You'll need a basin of warm water (baby bottle temperature), a clean rag, and nimble fingers. First step is to moisten the membranes since they've probably started to dry out if the chick has been pipped for so long.
1 You have a way of boosting the humidity in the incubator. 2  Helping means opening the lid more, which can harm your currently hatching chicks. 3  I devised an easy method of increasing the incubator humidity so that the chicks barely noticed me lifting the lid. 4  You're willing to cull chicks. If you have a stuck chick, how can you help? You'll need a basin of warm water (baby bottle temperature), a clean rag, and nimble fingers. First step is to moisten the membranes since they've probably started to dry out if the chick has been pipped for so long.
If incubator management is good, and only top quality fertile eggs have been used, the best hatching rate you can expect is 85%. If the eggs have been posted to you, 50% hatching is a good result. And a normal post hatch loss of incubator hatched chicks is up to 10% on top of the other losses. Egg Preparation and Storage for Hatching Chickens. For optimal fertility, eggs that have been stored at room temperature pointy end down, rotated daily, and are less than 7 days old are best. Longer storage – up to 14 days-is possible but requires cooler (e.g. cellar) temperatures (55°- 60°F).
http://ChickenJunkie.com We recently hatched baby chicks & had 1 get stuck in the shell. It pipped a hole & couldn't seem to get started zipping the top of the egg off. This video shows how I helped. 1  Pets & Animals. 
As the chick develops, the air pocket will get smaller and the egg will fill with the chick. Many people candle at 7 days, 14 days and just prior to lockdown. We have a little piece of cardboard with a hole cut out to hold the egg. Then we use a very strong light in a dark room to candle the eggs. Chicks ingest the yolk shortly before hatching. They can be left in the incubator for up to 3 days while the rest of the eggs hatch. You will be tempted to reach in very quickly and take one or two out. The experts tell you not to do that.
PREPARING THE EGGS FOR INCUBATION. Eggs must be turned while in the incubator, so before you put in the eggs mark them with a pencil so you can tell when they have been properly turned. An excellent method is to put an X on one side of the egg and an 0 on the opposite side. If it is necessary to hold the eggs before you set them, turn them daily and keep them in a room where the temperature is around 50 o F (10 C) and the relative humidity is 70 to 80 percent. The vegetable section of your refrigerator could be used for holding the egg until it is time to place them in the incubator.