Although the first lingua franca that developed during the Middle Ages was first considered a pidgin, the term pidgin itself and the language that term describes originally developed out of contact between Europeans and people in the countries they visited from the 16th to the 19th Centuries. A lingua franca is a language used by different populations to communicate when they do not share a common language. Generally, a lingua franca is a third language that is distinct from the native language of both parties involved in the communication. Sometimes as the language becomes more widespread, the native populations of an area will speak the lingua franca to each other as well
The term lingua franca was first used during the Middle Ages and described a language created as a combination of French and Italian that was developed by the Crusaders and tradesmen in the Mediterranean. A lingua franca is a language used by different populations to communicate when they do not share a common language. Generally, a lingua franca is a third language that is distinct from the native language of both parties involved in the communication. Sometimes as the language becomes more widespread, the native populations of an area will speak the lingua franca to each other as well
English as a lingua franca (ELF) is the use of the English language as a Koine koiné, language a common means of communication for speakers of different first . languages 1 Understanding English as a Lingua Franca: A Complete Introduction to the Theoretical Nature and Practical Implications of English used as a Lingua Franca.
Spanish was used as lingua franca throughout the former Spanish Colonial Empire, including territory in present day U.S., but particularly in present-day Mexico, Spanish Caribbean, Central America and South America, and it's still a lingua franca within Hispanic America. During the Middle Ages, the lingua franca was Greek in the parts of Europe, Middle East and Northern Africa where the Byzantine Empire held hegemony, and Latin was primarily used in the rest of Europe. Latin, for a significant portion of the expansion of the Roman Catholic Church, was used as the basis of the Church.
The way English is used as a lingua franca is heavily dependent on the specific situation of use. Generally speaking, ELF interactions concentrate on function rather than form. In other words, communicative efficiency (i.e. getting the message across) is more important than correctness. 1 Understanding English as a Lingua Franca: A Complete Introduction to the Theoretical Nature and Practical Implications of English used as a Lingua Franca.
1 A lingua franca is a language that you consciously learn because you need to, because you want to. 2  A mother tongue is a language that you learn because you can't help it. 3  The reason English is spreading around the world at the moment is because of its utility as a lingua franca. The term English as a lingua franca (ELF) refers to the teaching, learning, and use of the English language as a common means of communication for speakers of different native languages. See Examples and Observations, below. Also see: 1  Americanization. 2  English as a Lingua Franca. 3  Euro-English.
English as a Lingua Franca (ELF) refers to the use of English as a medium of communication between peoples of different languages. 
English is now the acknowledged lingua franca of higher education. What started as a gradual process in the sciences has spread to higher education in general. With the internationalisation of higher education, it was only a matter of time before one language emerged as the dominant language of research and instruction. The world is a village and English is the lingua franca; institutes of higher education have come to recognise this. Italy’s most prestigious business school, Bocconi University, has been offering courses in English for over a decade. Their reasoning: “The lingua franca of business is English and you need to know it.