Cooking Temperature For Baked Potatoes. In a conventional oven, bake your potato for 45 minutes at 400° or 60 minutes at 350°. These times and temperatures will vary according to the size of your potatoes. Check to see that your baked potatoes are ready by poking them with a toothpick and testing for tenderness.
Grilling baked potatoes whole takes 30-45 minutes in foil on the grill, if the potatoes are whole. If you’re running short on time, parboil your potatoes for 10 minutes before you put them on the grill or microwave them for 3 minutes per side, and you’ll only need to grill your baked potatoes for 5-10 minutes.
Really its just like when you cook a baked potato in the oven. You clean the potato and then you can put alumium foil around the potato and then you put it on the grill and then you let it cook for a while and then you turn it.
1 The amount of heat and the size of the potatoes determine their cooking time. 2  Generally, when grilled with the lid down, whole foil wrapped potatoes take 30 to 45 minutes to cook through. 3  In the last 5 to 10 minutes of cooking, you can remove the potatoes from the foil and return them to the grill, unwrapped.
1 You can also speed up the process of grilling baked potatoes by microwaving each whole potato for about 2-4 minutes per side (without the foil, of course) before finishing the baking on the grill for 5-10 minutes.
Baked potatoes on the grill, whole, 45 minutes. Baked potatoes on the grill, sliced, 5-10 minutes. Baked potatoes in the microwave, 2-4 minutes per side, depending on the size of the potato and the strength of the microwave. How Long Does It Take To Grill Baked Potatoes.
How Long To Bake A Potato. Bake a potato for 45 minutes, in the oven at 400°. Clean the potato thoroughly, wrap it in foil, vent it with a fork 5 times, and place it on a cookie sheet or directly onto the oven rack. To test that your potato’s properly cooked, poke it with a toothpick to check for tenderness.
1 To get a crispy potato skin on a whole potato, take your grilled baked potatoes out of the foil after 20-30 minutes and put them directly on the grill for the last 10 minutes of cooking time.
Conventional Oven Baked Potatoes: Wrap the potato in foil, poke it with a fork 5 times for venting, and bake it in the oven for 45 minutes at 400°. Grilling Baked Potatoes: Wrap the potato in foil, poke it with a fork 5 times, and place it on the grill for 45 minutes. Click here for more grilling baked potatoes tips.