2. a: a number of individuals assembled together or having some unifying relationship b: an assemblage of objects regarded as a unit c (1) : a military unit consisting of a headquarters and attached battalions (2) : a unit of the United States Air Force higher than a squadron and lower than a wing. : a number of people or things that are together or in the same place. : a number of people who are connected by some shared activity, interest, or quality. : a number of things that are related in some way.
2. A set of two or more figures that make up a unit or design, as in sculpture. 3. A number of individuals or things considered or classed together because of similarities: a small group of supporters across the country. 4. Linguistics A category of related languages that is less inclusive than a family.
Definition of GROUP DYNAMICS. : the interacting forces within a small human group; also: the sociological study of these forces. ADVERTISEMENT. noun plural but singular or plural in construction. : the interacting forces within a small human group; also: the sociological study of these forces. 
group. n. 1. An assemblage of persons or objects gathered or located together; an aggregation: a group of dinner guests; a group of buildings near the road. 2. A number of individuals or things considered or classed together because of similarities: a small group of supporters across the country. 4. Linguistics A category of related languages that is less inclusive than a family.
Usage Note: Group as a collective noun can be followed by a singular or plural verb. It takes a singular verb when the persons or things that make up the group are considered collectively: The dance group is ready for rehearsal. Group takes a plural verb when the persons or things that constitute it are considered individually: The group were divided in their sympathies. A number of individuals or things considered or classed together because of similarities: a small group of supporters across the country. 4. Linguistics A category of related languages that is less inclusive than a family.
3. a: an assemblage of related organisms —often used to avoid taxonomic connotations when the kind or degree of relationship is not clearly defined (2) : an assemblage of elements forming one of the vertical columns of the periodic table c: a stratigraphic division comprising rocks deposited during an era. 4. : a number of people or things that are together or in the same place. : a number of people who are connected by some shared activity, interest, or quality. : a number of things that are related in some way.
A group of people enjoy a glass of wine. Group is defined as something related to a collection or a number of people or things. An example of group is the decision by all six people at a table to drink wine with dinner; a group decision. A group is defined as a collection, or a number of people or things. 1  An example of a group is six people eating dinner together at a table. 2  An example of a group is a collection of paintings shown by an artist at a gallery.
Definition groups identify groups of tables that can be imported or exported when you use Microsoft Dynamics AX data import/export. Definition groups must be set up before you export data, but are not required when you import data. If you select a definition group when you import data, only table names in the definition group are used. All other settings, such as export criteria, are used only to export data. Before you create a definition group, determine whether you are using the correct tool to import and export your data. Click System administration Common Data export/import Definition groups. Click Select tables. The Select tables form opens. This form lists all of the tables that are in the definition group.