Piyaz; lovely, refreshing salad with red onions, tomatoes, parsley with sumac and olive oil dressing. Once the fish is baked, slice the sourdough bread (you can toast the bread if you like too.) Spread a thin layer of the herb mayonnaise over the bread and place a cooked fish fillet over it. Then place a spoonful of the sumac salad over the bread. You can add the gem lettuce and another slice of bread over the top
[Photo: Carey Jones]. One of my favorite things about eating in Istanbul is the preponderance of cheap, awesome seafood. (Apparently, mid-November is a great time for fish-eating. I am happy to time all of my vacations around fish-eating from now on.) And the easiest way to eat said fish is from a street stand—just about every one selling balık ekmek (translating literally to fish bread: a simple fish sandwich.). 
Balık ekmek, or fish in bread, is a grilled fish fillet sandwich often served as a street food in Istanbul. The perfect meal. Two fat pieces of fresh, crunchy on the outside chewy on the inside, with a freshly grilled fish fillet inside. Onions, lettuce, maybe a small leaf of parsley for garnish. Lemon juice and salt as a sauce
I hope you have a go at this easy, delicious fish sandwich (Balik Ekmek, as we say it in Turkish) with the refreshing sumac salad. Haddock fillets, sea bass, cod or sardines would especially work well here. If you’re not a big fan of bread, boiled potatoes by the side is excellent too. For the sumac salad; work the salt and sumac into the onion slices with your hands really well in a bowl. This will soften the onions, make them more palatable and let the sumac really penetrate to the onions. Add the chopped tomatoes, parsley, juice of lemon and extra virgin olive oil into the bowl and combine well.
For the sumac salad; work the salt and sumac into the onion slices with your hands really well in a bowl. This will soften the onions, make them more palatable and let the sumac really penetrate to the onions. Add the chopped tomatoes, parsley, juice of lemon and extra virgin olive oil into the bowl and combine well. Once the fish is baked, slice the sourdough bread (you can toast the bread if you like too.) Spread a thin layer of the herb mayonnaise over the bread and place a cooked fish fillet over it. Then place a spoonful of the sumac salad over the bread.
Balik & ekmek, Turkish grilled (or lighly fried) fish sandwich is another delicious street food at home. Fisherman prepare the catch of the day in their boats; a simple grill with salad, slices of onion on a fresh loaf of bread; just wonderful. For the sumac salad; work the salt and sumac into the onion slices with your hands really well in a bowl. This will soften the onions, make them more palatable and let the sumac really penetrate to the onions. Add the chopped tomatoes, parsley, juice of lemon and extra virgin olive oil into the bowl and combine well.
Balik ekmek is a very popular lunch sandwich in Istanbul. Price ranges from 2 TL to 5 TL. Tarihi Eminoenue Eminönü Balik ekmek next to The Galata bridge is a local. favorite Price ranges from 2 TL to 5 TL. Tarihi Eminoenue Eminönü Balik ekmek next to The Galata bridge is a local. Favorite Sound: Track Fried Lil. chicken
Please try again later. Geoff Lukas of Sofra Bakery looks to Istanbul for his Balik Ekmek, a simple combo of ingredients that takes your taste buds to the Middle East. Subscribe for great recipes: http://goo.gl/Z7lbS. Check out more Ultimate Sandwiches: http://goo.gl/Fl4yr. 
For a truly authentic balik ekmek, head to the water –the banks of the Bosphorus–where you can witness your lunch being pulled directly from the depths. Observe as the successful angler skillfully fillets his recent catch before tossing it on the grill. 
Balik ekmek is a very popular lunch sandwich in Istanbul. Price ranges from 2 TL to 5 TL. Tarihi Eminoenue Eminönü Balik ekmek next to The Galata bridge is a local. Favorite Sound: Track Fried Lil. chicken By. Triplexity available FOR cc licensing: at