677RAHMAN et al. A body-powered upper limb orthosis the form of a five-degree-of-freedom powered upper-limborthosis and is designed to work in three different modal-ities: assistive, exercise, and continuous passive motion(CPM). In both types of disordersthe proximal musculature of the upper and lower limbs isaffected and individuals lose the ability to use their armsand legs. All of these individuals may potentially benefitfrom an upper limb orthosis.BackgroundArticulated upper limb orthoses have been investi-gated for a number of years. These range from the mobilearm support to electrically powered wrist-hand orthoses(WHO; reference 1
1 2. 2  Contents:  Introduction  Objectives of upper limb orthosis  Nomenclature  Classification  Biomechanics of orthosis  General principles  Special principles  Assessment of upper limb orthosis  Description of upper limb orthosis  Recent advances. 3  3. 1 Classification :  On basis of anatomical regions: - Shoulder and arm orthosis-Elbow orthosis-Wrist orthosis-Hand orthosis. 2  11.  3  Based on function: - Supportive-Functional-Corrective-Protective-Prevent substitution of function-Prevent weight bearing-Relief of pain. 4  12.
Upper limb orthoses are externally applied devices that help restore or improve function and also fix structural characteristics of the nervous and the musculoskeletal systems. Our goal at CPO is to fit you with the appropriate orthosis so that you have maximum support and comfort. Shoulder Abduction Orthoses: Shoulder abduction orthoses are used for rotator cuff repairs, shoulder capsule injury, glenohumeral dislocation and/or subluxation, soft tissue injury and/or repair and also for clavicle fractures.
About orthoses and prostheses. An orthosis is the correct term for an externally applied device that is designed and fitted to the body to achieve one or more of the following goals: A custom-made orthosis is a highly specialised device that is manufactured from a cast or mould of the individual client. It is not able to be fitted to another person, as it has been designed and manufactured to meet the specific needs of the individual.
Upper-limb (or upper extremity) orthoses are mechanical or electromechanical devices applied externally to the arm or segments thereof in order to restore or improve function, or structural characteristics of the arm segments encumbered by the device. In general, musculoskeletal problems that may be alleviated by the use of upper limb orthoses include those resulting from trauma or disease (arthritis for example). They may also be beneficial in aiding individuals who have suffered a neurological impairment such as stroke, spinal cord injury, or peripheral neuropathy.
Upper extremity myoelectric orthoses (for example the MyoPro™, MyoMo, Inc.) are devices that combine the structure of a standard arm orthotic device with the microprocessors, muscle sensors and electric motor of a myoelectric device. This document addresses the use of upper extremity myoelectric orthoses, which are intended to augment the function of individuals with upper arm weakness or partial paralysis due to neurological conditions, trauma, or other problems.
1. Review of Prehension Patterns for Orthotics. Traditionally, the design of functional upper-limb orthoses is based on earlier research features unique to him, e.g., the need for transfer activity from wheel-chair while wearing the orthosis because it gets in his way or it may be damaged in the process. This discourages patients from using an orthosis full-time.
Positional Supports. These orthoses are designed to position the upper extremity, including wrist, arm and shoulder, so as to prevent unwanted contractures, maintain proper alignment, and to provide controlled range of motion physical and occupational therapy. Fracture Orthoses. The type of the fracture and the location determines what type of orthosis is appropriate. If the fracture site is near a joint it is often common to stabilize above and below the affected area to reduce unwanted motion at the fracture site.
1 Contents:  Introduction  Objectives of upper limb orthosis  Nomenclature  Classification  Biomechanics of orthosis  General principles  Special principles  Assessment of upper limb orthosis  Description of upper limb orthosis  Recent advances. 2  3. 1 Classification :  On basis of anatomical regions: - Shoulder and arm orthosis-Elbow orthosis-Wrist orthosis-Hand orthosis. 2  11.  3  Based on function: - Supportive-Functional-Corrective-Protective-Prevent substitution of function-Prevent weight bearing-Relief of pain. 4  12.