For example, bipolar depression has been linked to low levels of serotonin in the synaptic gap. Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that helps regulate moods. Manic episodes have been associated with high levels of norepinephrine; the neurotransmitter that contributes to our fight or flight response. Norepinephrine, the Brain and Bipolar Disorder. Norepinephrine is a catecholamine with dual roles as a hormone and a neurotransmitter. As a stress hormone, norepinephrine affects parts of the brain where attention and responding actions are controlled.
Bipolar disorder is a physiological disease, the levels of certain  chemicals in the brain, and the actual brain waves of bipolar  patients are different Bipolar disorder and Manic Depression  Disorder are two terms that describe the same condition. The term manic depression … is much misunderstood. Some  people think manic means really depressed.. Mania is the  'opposite' of depression. A manic depressive is someone who cycles  between being manic and
The mental illness called Bipolar disorder is caused by faulty transmission in the limbic system of brain of neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine. Bipolar disorder is corrected by Mood stabilizers and antidepressants by Psychiatrists. The term manic depression … is much misunderstood. Some  people think manic means really depressed.. Mania is the  'opposite' of depression. A manic depressive is someone who cycles  between being manic and
Norepinephrine is a neurotransmitter that is synthesized from dopamine and is released by neurons in the brain in response to stress. Patients with bipolar disorder commonly have decreased levels of norepinephrine in the brain. Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive disorder, refers to a group of mood disorders that varies in the severity of episodes of mania and depression and the predominant type of episode. Certain chemicals, also called neurotransmitters, act as messengers between neurons
Bipolar Disorder with Rapid Cycling. Bipolar disorder with rapid cycling involves four or more manic, hypomanic, or depressive episodes within a 12-month period. Mood swings can shift rapidly from mania to depression over the course of several days or hours. Rapid cycling can occur with any type of bipolar disorder. Bipolar Disorder I. Bipolar disorder I is characterized by at least one manic episode or mixed episode (symptoms of both mania and depression occurring simultaneously), and one or more depressive episodes, that lasts for at least 7 days.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that is synthesized from the amino acid tryptophan. Decreased levels of serotonin are commonly found in patients with bipolar disorder and depression. Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive disorder, refers to a group of mood disorders that varies in the severity of episodes of mania and depression and the predominant type of episode. Certain chemicals, also called neurotransmitters, act as messengers between neurons in the brai
It can cause extreme mood changes from manic episodes of very high  energy to the extreme lows of depression. It is also called  manic-depressive disorder.   This illness can cause behavior so extreme that you cannot function  at work, in family or social situations, or in relationships with  others. The term manic depression … is much misunderstood. Some  people think manic means really depressed.. Mania is the  'opposite' of depression. A manic depressive is someone who cycles  between being manic and
Lithium has been found to be effective in manic-depressive disorder. Manic-depressive Disorder (also called bipolar disorder) is a mood disorder in which a person alternates between depression and mania. Mania (or a manic episode) is a mood disorder in which a person tends to be hyperactive and wildly optimistic. This affects calcium-dependent release of neurotransmitters (such as norepinephrine). If norepinephrine is dependent on calcium in order to be released and lithium takes the place of some of the calcium at the calcium-binding sites, then the norepinephrine will be released less.
Overview. Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive disorder, refers to a group of mood disorders that varies in the severity of episodes of mania and depression and the predominant type of episode. Certain chemicals, also called neurotransmitters, act as messengers between neurons in the brain