1 View all Cubic Corporation jobs in San Diego, CA-San Diego jobs. 2  Salary Search: Senior Process Engineer salaries in San Diego, CA. 3  Learn more about working at Cubic Corporation. 4  Related forums: Cubic Corporation-SAN Diego, California-Process Engineer. The Senior Process Engineer will be lead or participate as a member of several cross functional teams:....
It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).). X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. 
Senior Process Engineer Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Senior Process Engineer is $94,917 per year. A skill in Simulation is associated with high pay for this job. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. $73,091 - $124,205
As a Senior Process Engineer, you will be able to work with some of the most talented engineers in the design and development of processes for fulfillment... 8 days ago-email. The Senior Process Engineer will be lead or participate as a member of several cross functional teams:....
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Process Engineer I in the United States is $60,782 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Process Engineer I in the United States are expected to make less than $60,782. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $60,782. Job Description for Process Engineer I. Responsible for designing and implementing manufacturing processes, equipment, and plants (from pilot to fully operational) to achieve the production goals of the organization.
Senior Process Engineer. Responsibilities for the Senior Process Engineer include:. Experience in process development, experimental design/statistical analysis,... The Senior Process Engineer will be lead or participate as a member of several cross functional teams:....
$102,000. Average Senior Process Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide are 77% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Senior Process Engineer Salary. Senior Process Engineer average salary is $89,126, median salary is $85,000 with a salary range from $45,000 to $261,810. Senior Process Engineer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Senior Process Engineer salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.