Coastal Areas. The south coast climate is very similar to Durban itself while north of the city the summer weather is generally more humid the further north you travel. Summer temperatures vary from 24°-32°C and winter temperatures average 20°C. Sea temperatures vary from 18°-25°C in winter. 
Average Temperatures in Durban, South Africa. 1  The average temperature in Durban, South Africa is warm at 20.5 degrees Celsius (68.8 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  The variation of mean monthly temperatures is 8 C (14.4 F) which is a very low range. 3  The mean diurnal temperature variation/ range is 8.3 C (14.9 F). 1 The average temperature in Durban, South Africa is warm at 20.5 degrees Celsius (68.8 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  The variation of mean monthly temperatures is 8 C (14.4 F) which is a very low range.
January is generally Durban s hottest month, with an average daily temperature of +/- 32 C. The warm Mozambique current flowing along the coast means wonderfully warm bathing throughout the year, the water seldom falling below 17 C even in the middle of winter. Durban boasts an average of 320 days of sunshine a year. Temperatures range from 16 to 25 C in winter. During the summer months temperatures range from 23 to 33 C (between September and April).
Durban Yearly Weather Summary. Durban weather is mild and sub-tropical. Summer months are warm and wet, while the winter is moist to dry. In Durban the maximum daytime temperature is 28 degrees C during the months between January and March, while the temperature reaches a maximum of 23 degrees C from June to August. Rainy weather is at its least between April and September. June is the driest month with a precipitation of just 28 mm / 1.1 inches. Durban is characterized by a mild subtropical climate having an average of 320 days of sunshine in a year. Light rain falls all through the year
In Durban, the climate is warm and temperate. Durban has a significant amount of rainfall during the year. This is true even for the driest month. The Koeppen-Köppen geiger climate classification Is. Cfa the average annual temperature is.20 °9 c In. Durban the rainfall here averages 975. mm Climate: Durban. In Durban, the climate is warm and temperate. Durban has a significant amount of rainfall during the year. This is true even for the driest month. The Koeppen-Köppen geiger climate classification Is. cfa
Climate: Durban. In Durban, the climate is warm and temperate. Durban has a significant amount of rainfall during the year. This is true even for the driest month. The Koeppen-Köppen geiger climate classification Is. Cfa the average annual temperature is.20 °9 c In. durban Climate: Durban. In Durban, the climate is warm and temperate. Durban has a significant amount of rainfall during the year. This is true even for the driest month. The Koeppen-Köppen geiger climate classification Is. cfa
Durban: Annual Weather Averages. February is the hottest month in Durban with an average temperature of 25°C (77°F) and the coldest is June at 18°C (64°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 9 in August. The wettest month is January with an average of 130mm of rain. 
In Durban, winter starts from June and lasts till August with average temperatures of 16 to 25 degrees Celsius. This season is usually warm and sunny. The occurrence of rain is also low and the nights get warm and humid. In Durban the maximum daytime temperature is 28 degrees C during the months between January and March, while the temperature reaches a maximum of 23 degrees C from June to August. Rainy weather is at its least between April and September.
1 The typical Mediterranean climate average monthly temperatures in excess of 22.0 C (71.6 F) in its warmest month and an average in the coldest month between 18 to -3 C (64 to 27 F) with at least four months above 10 C (50 F). 2  Seasonality is moderate (K ppen-Geiger classification: Csa). 1 Durban, South Africa is at 29 57'S, 30 56'E, 8 m (26 ft). 2  See map. 3  Durban has a hot mediterranean/ dry-summer subtropical climate (K ppen-Geiger classification: Csa) that is mild with moderate seasonality.