Brayden /bray-den/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys means descendant of Brad n. Brayden is an alternate form of Braden (Irish, Gaelic): transferred use of the Irish surname. Compare surname Brieden. See also Braylen. How popular is Brayden? Brayden is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a somewhat prominent last name for both adults and children (#92601 out of 150436, Top 62%).
[ 2 syll. bray-den, br-ayd-en ] The baby boy name Brayden is also used as a girl name, but it is much more common for boys. Its pronunciation is BR EY-DehN †. Brayden is used predominantly in the English language and its origin is Celtic. Brayden is a variant spelling of the name Braden (English and Irish). See also the related form, Braylen (English). Brayden is very popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 1990s; before that, it was of very light use only.
What does Brayden mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Brayden is of Gaelic origin. The meaning of Brayden is descendant of bradan. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is broad hillside. View the Brayden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Brayden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Brayden to other names. The names Braydan, Braydin, Braydon, Braydyn are all forms of Brayden. Brayden falls into the landform name category.
Form of: Braden. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Brayden and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Brayden and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Brayden for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Brayden is a boy name.
The name Brayden is a baby boy name. The name Brayden comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Brayden is: Broad hillside. 
The meaning of Brayden has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Brayden are: 1  English meaning: Brave, broad, wide. 2  Celtic-Gaelic meaning: Salmon; son of the salmon. The first thing you should know if you are considering Brayden for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Brayden is a boy name.
Brayden is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Bray-den. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 62 in baby name popularity for boys with 6539 occurrences. It ranked 5456 in popular baby names for girls with 24 occurrences. View the Brayden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Brayden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Brayden to other names. The names Braydan, Braydin, Braydon, Braydyn are all forms of Brayden. Brayden falls into the landform name category.
The name Brayden is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Brayden is: Broad hillside. Irish Meaning: The name Brayden is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Brayden is: Broad hillside. American Meaning: The name Brayden is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Brayden is: Broad hillside. 
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. View the Brayden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Brayden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Brayden to other names. The names Braydan, Braydin, Braydon, Braydyn are all forms of Brayden. Brayden falls into the landform name category.
The name Brayden is a baby boy name. The name Brayden comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Brayden is: Broad hillside. 