Introduction. In August 2003, I wrote a commentary entitled How Long Can a Vial of Insulin be Used After It Is Started. The commentary included comments from each of the 3 insulin manufacturers, as well as the American Diabetes Association (ADA). As pointed out in a subsequent letter to the editor by Dr. Mark Molitch, the comments from the 3 insulin manufacturers were totally unsatisfactory and self-serving.. The recommendations for how long an opened vial of insulin can be used are inconsistent and not necessarily based on definitive studies.
Not in-use (unopened): Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 vials not in-use should be stored in a refrigerator (2° to 8°C [36° to 46°F]), but not in the freezer. The injection of Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 should be followed by a meal within approximately 30 minutes of administration.
Report Abuse. As long as it's kept at room temperature (about 65-70 degrees), it will last 28 days without refrigeration, then it starts losing potency. At cool but not cold temperatures (say 50 degrees), it will probably last a couple of months. If refrigerated, it will last until the expiration date on the package. Best Answer: If the insulin is Lilly's glargine (Lantus) or lispro (Humalog) or if the insulin is Novo Nordisk's detemir (Levemir) or aspart (Novolog) it will be effective for thirty days after being removed from refrigeration assuming it is not exposed to 'excessive heat' (greater than 80 degrees F or 26.7 degrees C).
Admixture: Infusion bags prepared with Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 as indicated under DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION are stable when stored in a refrigerator (2° to 8°C [36° to 46°F]) for 48 hours and then may be used at room temperature for up to an additional 48 hours. The injection of Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 should be followed by a meal within approximately 30 minutes of administration.
Expert: Tammy F. replied 10 years ago. You should be able to use an open vial for up to 28 days without refrigeration as long as you keep it away from direct heat and light and at a temperature of less than 86°F. Check with your vet in the morning just to be sure but it might be ok. Good luck! 
Punctured vials: After initial use, the punctured vials should be stored in a refrigerator but not in a freezer. If refrigeration is not possible, the vial that you are currently using can be kept at room temperature up to 42 days, as long as it is kept below 30°C (86°F). Throw away unrefrigerated vials after 42 days from the first use, even if they still contain insulin.. As pointed out in a subsequent letter to the editor by Dr. Mark Molitch, the comments from the 3 insulin manufacturers were totally unsatisfactory and self-serving.. The recommendations for how long an opened vial of insulin can be used are inconsistent and not necessarily based on definitive studies.
In-use (opened): The Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 vial currently in-use can be kept unrefrigerated as long as it is kept as cool as possible [below 30°C (86°F)] away from heat and light. The injection of Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 should be followed by a meal within approximately 30 minutes of administration.
1 Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 should only be mixed as directed by the physician. 2  Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 is short-acting and is often used in combination with intermediate-or long-acting insulins. The injection of Humulin R (insulin (human recombinant)) U-100 should be followed by a meal within approximately 30 minutes of administration.
Insulin products contained in vials or cartridges supplied by the manufacturers (opened or unopened) may be left unrefrigerated at a temperature between 59°F and 86°F for up to 28 days and continue to work. Regular insulins are to be injected approximately 30 minutes before the start of each meal. Rapid-acting insulins begin working more rapidly than regular insulin and are to be injected no more than 15 minutes before the start of each meal to avoid dangerously low blood glucose levels.
1 If an intermediate insulin (e.g., Humulin N or Novolin N) or long-acting insulin (e.g., Lantus or Levemir) is available, the 24 units should be administered as two injections of 12 units, once in the morning and once in the evening. Regular insulins are to be injected approximately 30 minutes before the start of each meal. Rapid-acting insulins begin working more rapidly than regular insulin and are to be injected no more than 15 minutes before the start of each meal to avoid dangerously low blood glucose levels.