Application Recommendations: 70% NEEM OIL is an effective fungicide for the prevention and control of various fungal diseases including powdery mildew, black spot, downy mildew, anthracnose, rust, leaf spot, botrytis, needle rust, scab and flower, twig and tip blight, and alternaria. As a preventative, apply 70% NEEM OIL on a 7 to 14 day schedule until the potential for disease development is no longer present. To control disease already present, apply 70% NEEM OIL on a 7 day schedule until disease pressure is eliminated.
Neem Oil is not a true fungicide or pesticide, but acts to prevent those problems. To the extent Neem Oil is also a preventative measure, and safe to use, we can feel good about its use. As a preventative neem is mainly used when problems are just starting to show. 
APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS: 70% NEEM OIL is an effective fungicide for the prevention and controlof various fungal diseases including powdery mildew, black spot, downymildew, anthracnose, rust, leaf spot, botrytis, needle rust, scab andflower, twig, tip blight, and alternaria. To control disease alreadypresent, apply 70% NEEM OIL on a 7 day schedule until disease pressureis eliminated. Then continue spraying on a 14 day schedule to preventthe disease from reoccurring.
Neem oil is an extract made from the pressed seeds of the neem tree (Azadirachta indica) -- a tree native to India. It's not a new discovery. Indians have used neem oil, leaves and seeds for centuries to heal all kinds of medical ailments, as well as to control infestations of their crops by pests. Mixed with water, it's a sprayable form and is easy to use to saturate the entire plant. Bon-Neem for house plants is a neem oil insecticide that's particularly effective. You can use it to safely treat your house plants for mealybugs, aphids, whiteflies, thrips and fungus gnats. It kills many other bugs, too. However, these are the most commonly found on indoor plan
Internet # 202043608. The Monterey 16 oz. 70% Neem Oil is a broad spectrum insecticide, miticide and fungicide that controls numerous diseases as well as mites and insects. Use it on vegetables, fruit trees and ornamentals. Neem is ideal for use in organic gardens, and its concentrated formula also works as an insect repellant
Many tests have shown neem oil to effectively control black spot, fungus and powdery mildew -- common problems that sometimes affect house plants, especially ivy and flowering plants. Spray leaves with neem oil mixed with 2 teaspoons of baking soda. Mixed with water, it's a sprayable form and is easy to use to saturate the entire plant. Bon-Neem for house plants is a neem oil insecticide that's particularly effective. You can use it to safely treat your house plants for mealybugs, aphids, whiteflies, thrips and fungus gnats. It kills many other bugs, too. However, these are the most commonly found on indoor plants
Description: A broad spectrum insecticide, miticide and fungicide, 70% Neem Oil controls numerous diseases as well as insects and mites. Use on vegetables, fruit trees, ornamentals and more. OMRI Listed for use in organic production. As a preventative, apply 70% NEEM OIL on a 7 to 14 day schedule until the potential for disease development is no longer present. To control disease already present, apply 70% NEEM OIL on a 7 day schedule until disease pressure is eliminated.
Stops Powdery Mildew in 24 hours. Neem Oil is an effective choice for use on most plants to control any stage of insect – egg, larvae, and adults. Clarified Neem Oil is derived from the nut of the Azidirachtin Tree. Controls blackspot, powdery mildew, rust, spider mites, aphids, whiteflies and other insect pests. 