X-ray Fixer. Used X-ray fixer is a hazardous waste (RCRA waste code D011) because of its high silver content (the regulatory level is 5 mg/l silver, used fixer typically contains 3,000 to 8,000 mg/l of silver). As such, it cannot be sewered or disposed of as common solid waste
Photographic fixer is a mix of chemicals used in the final step in the photographic processing of film or paper. The fixer stabilises the image, removing the unexposed silver halide remaining on the photographic film or photographic paper, leaving behind the reduced metallic silver that forms the image. By fixation, the film or paper is insensitive to further action by light. Fixation is commonly achieved by treating the film or paper with a solution of thiosulfate salt. Popular salts are sodium thiosulfate —commonly called hypo—and ammonium thiosulfate —commonly used in modern rapid fixer formulae.
: one that fixes: as a: a person who intervenes to enable someone to circumvent the law or obtain a political favor b: a person who adjusts matters or disputes by negotiation c: sodium thiosulfate; also: a solution of sodium thiosulfate. See fixer defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
fixer-a chemical compound that sets or fixes something (as a dye or a photographic image). fixing agent. chemical compound, compound - (chemistry) a substance formed by chemical union of two or more elements or ingredients in definite proportion by weight. fix·er. n. 1. One that fixes: a fixer of radios. 2.
fixer. n. 1. a person or thing that fixes. 2. (Photography) photog a solution containing one or more chemical compounds that is used, in fixing, to dissolve unexposed silver halides. It sometimes has an additive to stop the action of developer. fix·er. n. 1. One that fixes: a fixer of radios. 2.
Fixer is used for processing all commonly used films, including black-and-white films, Kodachrome, and chromogenic films. In chromogenic films, the remaining silver must be removed by a chemical mixture called a bleach fix, sometimes shortened to blix. Fixation is commonly achieved by treating the film or paper with a solution of thiosulfate salt. Popular salts are sodium thiosulfate —commonly called hypo—and ammonium thiosulfate —commonly used in modern rapid fixer formulae.
1. fixer-someone who intervenes with authorities for a person in trouble (usually using underhand or illegal methods for a fee). influence peddler. important person, influential person, personage-a person whose actions and opinions strongly influence the course of events. fix·er. n. 1. One that fixes: a fixer of radios. 2.
A fixer is someone who offers assistance to foreign journalists who are trying to get a story. Fixers use their local experience and contacts to smooth the way for their employers, and many receive a high rate of pay, especially when compared to locally available wages. For example, when a fixer says that a location is too unsafe to visit, a journalist may seek another way to get the story, in contrast with the past, when journalists would have insisted upon making the trip anyway.