Your costs in Original Medicare. Generally, you won't pay more for care in a long-term care hospital than in an acute care hospital. Under Medicare, you're only responsible for one deductible for any benefit period. This applies whether you're in an acute care hospital or a long-term care hospital (LTCH). You don't have to pay a second deductible for your care in a LTCH if: 1  You're transferred to a LTCH directly from an acute care hospital.
1 60 days = the number of days you must have been out of a hospital or skilled nursing facility in order to qualify for a new benefit period. 2  60 days = the maximum length of time that Medicare will cover 100 percent of your care in a hospital after you’ve met the deductible for each benefit period. 1 60 days = the maximum length of time that Medicare will cover 100 percent of your care in a hospital after you’ve met the deductible for each benefit period. 2  60 days = the maximum number of lifetime reserve days that you can draw on to extend Medicare coverage for hospital care in any one
For each spell of illness, Medicare will cover only a total of 100 days of inpatient care in a skilled nursing facility, and then only if your doctor continues to prescribe skilled nursing care or therapy. 
1 Skilled nursing care. 2  Medicare helps to pay for your recovery in a skilled nursing care facility after a three-day hospital stay. 3  Medicare will cover the cost of skilled nursing care for a maximum of 100 days. 4  Home health care. 1 Medicare will cover the cost of skilled nursing care for a maximum of 100 days. 2  Home health care. 3  If you are homebound by an illness or injury, and your doctor says you need short-term skilled care, Medicare will pay for nurses and therapists to provide services in your home. 4  This is not round-the-clock
1 Medicare helps to pay for your recovery in a skilled nursing care facility after a three-day hospital stay. 2  Medicare will cover the cost of skilled nursing care for a maximum of 100 days. 1 Medicare will cover the cost of skilled nursing care for a maximum of 100 days. 2  Home health care. 3  If you are homebound by an illness or injury, and your doctor says you need short-term skilled care, Medicare will pay for nurses and therapists to provide services in your home. 4  This is not round-the-clock care
1 Medicare may cover up to 100 days of skilled nursing home care per benefit period. 2  After 20 days, beneficiaries must pay a coinsurance fee. 3  Beneficiaries currently pay coinsurance for a skilled nursing facility of $133.50 per day for days 21 through 100 each benefit period. When these conditions are met: 1 
There is no requirement that you first stay in a regular hospital for a certain number of days (as with Medicare coverage of skilled nursing facilities), but if you don't, you will need to pay the Part A deductible of $1,184 (in 2013). Accordingly, Medicare pays only certain amounts of your stay at an IRF. For the first 60 days you are an inpatient in an IRF, Part A hospital insurance pays for everything. After your 60th day in an IRF, and through your 90th day, you must pay a daily co-pay $296
Medicare does not pay the largest part of long-term care services or personal care —such as help with bathing, or for supervision often called custodial care. Medicare will help pay for a short stay in a skilled nursing facility, for hospice care, or for home health care if you meet the following conditions: 1  You have had a recent prior hospital stay of at least three days. 2  You are admitted to a Medicare-certified nursing facility within 30 days of your prior hospital stay. If you meet all these conditions, Medicare will pay for some of your costs for up to 100 days. For the first 20 days, Medicare pays 100 percent of your costs. For days 21 through 100, you pay your own expenses up to $140.00 per day (as of 2013), and Medicare pays any balance. You pay 100 percent of costs for each day you stay in a skilled nursing facility after day 100