Use this form to display growth percentiles for children and teens. Use WeightChart to track growth metrics for your child under age 20. Track and chart stature/height, weight, and head circumference growth metrics over time. 
The higher the percentile number, the bigger your baby is compared to other babies his same age. If your baby is in the 50th percentile for length, that means he falls right in the middle and is average length for baby boys his age. To chart your baby's growth at home, try our growth percentile calculator. 
A percentile shows the relative position of the child's BMI, Weight, or Height among children of the same sex and age. For example, a boy at the 25th percentile for weight weighs more than 25% of boys his age. If a girl is at the 40th percentile for weight, she weighs more than 40% of girls at that same age. Therefore, it's important that children with a BMI-percentile-for-age over the 85th percentile be evaluated by a health professional. To help put a child's growth into perspective, use the charts below to further compare weight & height measurements with age-and gender-specific growth charts.
Normal or healthy weight weight status is based on BMI between the 5 th and 85 th percentile on the CDC growth chart. It is difficult to provide healthy weight ranges for children and teens because the interpretation of BMI depends on weight, height, age, and sex. It is not appropriate to use the BMI categories for adults to interpret the BMI of children and teens. However, if a child or teen has a BMI of ≥ 30 kg/m 2, the child is almost certainly obese. A BMI of 30 kg/m 2 is approximately the 95 th percentile among 17-year-old girls and 18-year-old boys.
1 If a child's weight, height, or head size is below the 5th percentile, it's important to see if her growth points have always paralleled the 5th percentile line -- which would mean her growth rate is normal -- or if she is suddenly falling further behind, which is more concerning. A. If your baby is following the curve of the growth chart, she's paralleling one of the percentile lines on the chart, and the odds are good that her caloric intake is fine, no matter how much or how little milk she seems to be drinking.
If a child's weight is at the 50th percentile line, that means that out of 100 normal children her age, 50 will be bigger than she is and 50 smaller. Similarly, if she is in the 75th percentile, that means that she is bigger than 75 children and smaller than only 25, compared with 100 children her age. A. If your baby is following the curve of the growth chart, she's paralleling one of the percentile lines on the chart, and the odds are good that her caloric intake is fine, no matter how much or how little milk she seems to be drinking.
Obesity is defined as a BMI at or above the 95th percentile for children and teens of the same age and sex. For example, a 10-year-old boy of average height (56 inches) who weighs 102 pounds would have a BMI of 22.9 kg/m 2. It is not appropriate to use the BMI categories for adults to interpret the BMI of children and teens. However, if a child or teen has a BMI of ≥ 30 kg/m 2, the child is almost certainly obese. A BMI of 30 kg/m 2 is approximately the 95 th percentile among 17-year-old girls and 18-year-old boys.
Our growth chart calculator will estimate your child's height and weight percentiles based on information sourced from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) growth chart. Baby Growth Charts. Check out our baby growth chart to calculate your child's height and weight percentile. Whether your little one is going through a growth spurt or you're worried about baby's development, keep track of his early childhood development with our growth charts.
Children's BMI-percentile-for-age Calculator. Use this calculator to determine whether a child is at a healthy weight for his/her height, age and gender (1) . The BMI-percentile-for-age calculator automatically adjusts for differences in height, age and gender, making it one of the best tools for evaluating a growing child's weight. Enter your information into the form below, then click the Calculate button. All fields are required.
Description: This calculator provides your child's stature percentile based on age. Stature is the standing upright height of the child. The percentile shows how your child's height or stature compares to other children. The percentile tells you what percentage of children that have a height less than your child. 1 Percentile-The length percentile of the child. 2  Age-The age of the child in months. 3  Weight-The length of the child in metric and standard units. 4  Graph Plot-Length versus Age graph with 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, 95 and calculated percentile lines.