4. living quarters provided for public convenience. 5. the act of providing something (lodging or seat or food) to meet a need. 6. (physiology) the automatic adjustment in focal length of the lens of the eye. Familiarity information: ACCOMMODATION used as a noun is common. Dictionary entry details
(1) The term transient accommodation shall mean any facility such as a hotel, motel, condominium, resort, or any other facility or place offering three or more lodging units to travelers and transient guests. The person operating a transient accommodation as defined in this chapter shall secure each year an annual operating license and shall pay a fee to cover the cost of licensure and enforcement activities as established by the department under RCW 43.70.110 and 43.70.250.
Hotels have always offered their share of unreasonable fees -- such as exorbitant taxes and dollar-a-minute telephone charges -- but in recent years the industry has begun upping the ante. 
Nearby Terms. 1  accidental deat... 2  accidental disa... 3  accidental mean... 4  accommodating r... 5  accommodation. 6  accommodation b... 7  accommodation l... 8  accommodation l... 9  accommodation l... 10  accommodation p... 11  accommodations. 12  accommodative m... 13  accompanied sho... 14  accompanied tra... 15  accomplice. 16  accomplish. 17  accomplished. Loan advanced to facilitate (accommodate) the borrower, and where the lender receives no consideration (interest or fees) in return.
n a platform or semisubmersible rig specially built or adapted to act as living accommodation for offshore personnel in the oil industry. English Collins Dictionary-English Definition & Thesaurus &nbsp. See also: accommodation address, accommodation bill, accommodation ladder, accommodation platform. open bar. open bar. n. bar or counter where drinks are served without limitation after paying a fixed fee. Collins English Dictionary 5th Edition first published in 2000 © HarperCollins Publishers 1979, 1986, 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000 and Collins A-Z Thesaurus 1st edition first published in 1995 © HarperCollins Publishers 1995.
accommodation. Accommodation is where you live or stay, especially when you are on holiday or when you are staying somewhere for a short amount of time. In British English, accommodation is an uncountable noun. Don't talk about 'accommodations' or 'an accommodation'. accommodation. 1. The act of making suitable to an end or the condition of being made suitable to an end: adaptation, adaption, adjustment, conformation. 2.
Hypernyms (accommodation is a kind of...): advance; betterment; improvement (a change for the better; progress in development). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of accommodation): shakedown (initial adjustments to improve the functioning or the efficiency and to bring to a more satisfactory state). 5. the act of providing something (lodging or seat or food) to meet a need. 6. (physiology) the automatic adjustment in focal length of the lens of the eye. Familiarity information: ACCOMMODATION used as a noun is common.
Homestay is a form of tourism and/or study abroad that allows visitors to rent rooms from local families. It is sometimes used by people who wish to improve their language skills and become familiar with the local lifestyle. Some countries encourage homestay as a means of developing their tourism industry. Students tend to arrange a homestay with their school or educational institution, but they can informally arrange one through social connections and private agencies that connect students with hosts families, usually for a nominal fee.
A resort fee is usually an involuntary nightly surcharge imposed by hotels, nominally to cover the cost of certain amenities. Resort fees are most prominent within the United States, with particular high levels of concentration in the states of Florida (particularly the city of Orlando), Hawaii (the entire state) and Nevada (Las Vegas).