1. (Hinduism) Hinduism the second Veda, consisting of prayers and sacrificial formulas primarily for use by the priests. [from Sanskrit, from yajur sacred, holy (compare Greek hagios holy) + Veda]. 
Yajur-Veda. see Veda Veda[Sanskrit,=knowledge, cognate with English wit, from a root meaning know], oldest scriptures of Hinduism and the most ancient religious texts in an Indo-European language...... Click the link for more information. .
• YAJUR-VEDA (noun). The noun YAJUR-VEDA has 1 sense: 1. a collection of sacrificial formulas and prayers. Familiarity information: YAJUR-VEDA used as a noun is very rare. An apple a day keeps the doctor away. (English proverb). It's impossible to awaken a man who is pretending to be asleep. (Native American proverb, Navajo).
Any of the four collections forming the earliest body of Indian scripture, consisting of the Rig Veda, Sama Veda, Yajur Veda, and Atharva Veda, which codified the ideas and practices of Vedic religion and laid down the basis of classical Hinduism. They were probably composed between 1500 and 700 bc, and contain hymns, philosophy, and guidance on ritual. Example sentences. 1  The Sama Veda differs from other Vedas in that it is chanted with some melody. 2  The Samhitas are the most ancient part of the Vedas, consisting of hymns of praise to God. 3  Shankara was a Vedanta scholar, who had mastered the Vedas and the Upanishads at an early age
Example Sentences Including 'Veda'. The oldest document in the literature of the Indian subcontinent is the Rigveda, or Veda of the Stanzas, of about 1,400 bc. 
1 The Sama Veda differs from other Vedas in that it is chanted with some melody. 2  The Samhitas are the most ancient part of the Vedas, consisting of hymns of praise to God. 3  Shankara was a Vedanta scholar, who had mastered the Vedas and the Upanishads at an early age. They were probably composed between 1500 and 700 bc, and contain hymns, philosophy, and guidance on ritual. Example sentences. 1  The Sama Veda differs from other Vedas in that it is chanted with some melody. 2  The Samhitas are the most ancient part of the Vedas, consisting of hymns of praise to God.