I've been listening to Don McLean sing American Pie for twenty years now and I still don't know what the hell he's talking about. The most important one is the death of rockabilly singer Buddy Holly in 1959; for McLean, that's when the music died. The court jester he refers to is Bob Dylan. The Stones and the flames in the sky refer to the concert at Altamont, California.
What's the meaning of Verse 6 (I met a girl who sang the blues)? I went down to the sacred storeWhere I'd heard the music years beforeBut the man there said the music wouldn't play. These lyrics merely prop up McLean's idea of music as a sacrament, a theme that he works throughout the song.
This'll be the day that I die. [Chorus:]. They were singing bye, bye, Miss American Pie. Drove my Chevy to the levee but the levee was dry. Them good ole boys were drinking whiskey 'n rye. And singin' this'll be the day that I die. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
The day the music died. I started singin', bye-bye, miss american pie.. Drove my chevy to the levee, But the levee was dry. Them good old boys were drinkin' whiskey and rye. And singin', this'll be the day that I die. this'll be the day that I die.. I met a girl who sang the blues. And I asked her for some happy news, But she just smiled and turned away. And we sang dirges in the dark. The day the music died. We were singing, bye-bye, miss american pie.. Drove my chevy to the levee, But the levee was dry. Them good old boys were drinkin' whiskey and rye. And singin', this'll be the day that I die. this'll be the day that I die.. Helter skelter in a summer swelter.
(Redirected from American pie song).  American Pie  is a song by American folk rock singer and songwriter Don McLean. Recorded and released on the American Pie album in 1971, the single was a number-one US hit for four weeks in 1972. Background [edit]. Don McLean wrote the song in Cold Spring, New York and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The song made its debut in Philadelphia at Temple University when he opened for Laura Nyro on March 14, 1971.
Verse 1. A long, long time ago... American Pie was written in 1971 and the time McLean is going to talk about is the 1950's. This seems like a long time ago 'cause of all the turmoil that occurred in the 60's. I met a girl who sang the blues and I asked her for some happy news, but she just smiled and turned away. Janis Joplin is most the girl who sang the blues. Her big hits were Piece of My Heart and Me and Bobby McGee.. She died of an accidental heroin overdose on October 4, 1970.
Question: What's the meaning of Verse 6 (I met a girl who sang the blues)? Answer: I met a girl who sang the bluesAnd I asked her for some happy newsBut she just smiled and turned away. This is almost certainly a nod to Janis Joplin, the finest and most popular female blues singer of her time. I went down to the sacred storeWhere I'd heard the music years beforeBut the man there said the music wouldn't play. These lyrics merely prop up McLean's idea of music as a sacrament, a theme that he works throughout the song.
Refrain. So bye, bye Miss American Pie Pimp Daddy McLean was dating one of the Miss America contestants during one of the pageants. Also the American Pie part is a symbol of the American Dream (at least of the 50's), it was also the name of the plane that crashed and killed Holly (or so goes the rumor). I met a girl who sang the blues and I asked her for some happy news, but she just smiled and turned away. Janis Joplin is most the girl who sang the blues. Her big hits were Piece of My Heart and Me and Bobby McGee.. She died of an accidental heroin overdose on October 4, 1970.
McLean has previously indicated the song was inspired by the 1959 plane crash that killed singers Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and J.P. Richardson, better known to music fans as “the Big Bopper.”. Watch video of Don McLean singing “American Pie”: Don McLean in 1972. McLean has often joked about the song's meaning, saying: It means I don't ever have to work again if I don't want to.. But now at age 69, he's more open about the true intent. Basically in 'American Pie,' things are heading in the wrong direction, McLean told Christie's.