Iron is found in liver, lean meats, fish, whole grains, and legumes. Most commercial pet foods contain a highly available form of supplemental iron to help meet dietary requirements. Daily iron requirements. Dogs and cats should receive 36.4 mg of iron daily for every pound of food they eat (on a dry matter basis). The iron should be in a form other than iron oxide or iron carbonate.
Iron from animal sources is known as heme iron and is found in various meats and fish. Iron from plants is known as nonheme iron, and is found in certain vegetables and in iron-fortified foods such as breakfast cereals. Heme iron is better absorbed by the body than nonheme iron. The following foods are good sources of heme iron (from animal sources): 1  Chicken liver. 2  Oysters.
A nutritional plan rich in protein and Vitamin B12 is essential for anemic dogs. A number of other supplements and minerals can help, too. Consider incorporating one of the following substances into your dog's food intake: 1  Geritol tables: give a Geritol supplement to enhance the blood with iron and B vitamins. To quickly boost the amount of oxygen your dog's blood can carry, serve him foods with a lot of iron and B vitamins. Avoid supermarket or generic foods for canine anemia. The nutrients in them are harder for dogs to absorb. Start your anemic dog's meal plan by incorporating the following healthy foods:
Fortunately, many vegetables, such as broccoli and bok choy, which are high in iron, are also high in vitamin C so that the iron in these foods is very well absorbed. Commonly eaten combinations, such as beans and tomato sauce or stir-fried tofu and broccoli, also result in generous levels of iron absorption. Iron is found in food in two forms, heme and non-heme iron. Heme iron, which makes up 40 percent of the iron in meat, poultry, and fish, is well absorbed. Non-heme iron, 60 percent of the iron in animal tissue and all the iron in plants (fruits, vegetables, grains, nuts) is less well absorbed.
Foods high in iron, protein and B vitamins (particularly vitamin B12) are essential in helping the production of red blood cells. I would avoid commercial dog food, especially generic brands, with the exception of high-quality pet food such as Royal Canin, Science Diet, Iams, and those that are high in iron. 1 Milk Thistle which boosts hemoglobin levels. 2  crushed vitamin C tablets in your dog's food to help with iron absorption, approximately 500 mg a day, more for a larger dog. 3  geritol tablets to give the blood a bigger boost of iron and B vitamins. 4  phosphorus pellets which helps treat bleeding in anemic dogs.
Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1. Iron-Rich Foods. Very good sources of heme iron, with 3.5 milligrams or more per serving, include: 1  3 ounces of beef or chicken liver. 2  3 ounces of clams, mollusks, or mussels.
Diet. A diet rich in iron, vitamin B12, and protein is essential in helping the production of red blood cells. Suitable foods include: 1  Liver (iron, B-complex vitamins, protein); 2  Green vegetables (the chlorophyll in the veggies can help the body to produce healthier blood); 3  Kelp (iodine and trace minerals)
Food for Anemic Dogs. To quickly boost the amount of oxygen your dog's blood can carry, serve him foods with a lot of iron and B vitamins. Avoid supermarket or generic foods for canine anemia. The nutrients in them are harder for dogs to absorb. Start your anemic dog's meal plan by incorporating the following healthy foods: 1  Cooked liver: 4 ounces for a large dog; 2 ounces for a smaller dog. 2  Good dog food full of iron. 3  Lean meats like ground beef and lamb. 4  Fish, nuts and vegetable