What Assists Absorption of Calcium. Vitamin D is the most significant nutrient for the proper absorption of calcium. Vitamin D and calcium work together to slow down or even reverse osteoporosis. The body's ability to produce vitamin D from exposure to sunlight and to absorb calcium and vitamin D decreases with age. Getting enough vitamin D helps the body absorb calcium and also helps the kidneys break down and incorporate (resorb) calcium that would otherwise be excreted.
In the intestines, absorption of both calcium and phosphate is mediated by an increase in activated vitamin D. The absorption of phosphate is not as dependent on vitamin D as is that of calcium. 
Vitamin D acts also to increase blood concentrations of calcium. It is generated through the activity of parathyroid hormone within the kidney. Far and away the most important effect of vitamin D is to facilitate absorption of calcium from the small intestine. In concert with parathyroid hormone, vitamin D also enhances fluxes of calcium out of bone. Calcitonin is a hormone that functions to reduce blood calcium levels. 
Vitamin D. Vitamin D is a substance that is created naturally in the body. Sunlight exposure stimulates and increases production of vitamin D in the body naturally. This vitamin works in the digestive tract to absorb calcium into the blood stream from the walls of the duodenum, or first part of the small intestine. Vitamin D also helps maintain normal blood calcium level, which is essential to life and to cardiac function. 
1 Vitamin D helps the absorption of calcium from the intestines. 2  A lack of vitamin D causes calcium-depleted bone (osteomalacia), which further weakens the bones and increases the risk of fractures. A. An adequate calcium intake and adequate amounts of vitamin D are important foundations for maintaining bone density and strength. However, vitamin D and calcium alone are not sufficient treatment for osteoporosis and are given in conjunction with other treatments. Vitamin D is important in several respects: 1 
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in very few foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. It is also produced endogenously when ultraviolet rays from sunlight strike the skin and trigger vitamin D synthesis. Vitamin D in these foods is primarily in the form of vitamin D 3 and its metabolite 25(OH)D 3 [ 12 ]. Some mushrooms provide vitamin D 2 in variable amounts [ 13, 14 ]. Mushrooms with enhanced levels of vitamin D 2 from being exposed to ultraviolet light under controlled conditions are also available.
Vitamin D. Vitamin D aids the body's absorption of calcium. It is a a fat-soluble vitamin, meaning it is stored in the liver and fatty tissues. Vitamin D is essential for bone strength, hardness and growth, but is found in very few foods. The main source of vitamin D is sunlight, although it is added to some foods. If you take a supplement, try salmon over a leafy green salad to get both vitamins C and D with your calcium. A glass of vitamin D-fortified milk is another great way to get calcium in your diet. Not only does it pair calcium with vitamin D, but the lactase in the milk even helps your body absorb the calcium.
Vitamin D facilitates active absorption of calcium and phosphate in the intestine through the actions of 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D, which stimulates active calcium uptake by the cells lining the intestine. A portion of circulating calcium is lost daily through excretion via the kidneys and the intestinal tract. Calcium lost from the body must be replaced from diet or supplementation to assure there is adequate calcium present for deposition of new bone.