(Originally Published 1897). Cream ripening. Passing from milk to butter, we find a somewhat different story, inasmuch as here bacteria are direct allies to the dairyman rather than his enemies. Without being aware of it, butter makers have for years been making use of bacteria in their butter making and have been. After this ripening the cream is churned. It is during the ripening that the bacteria produce their effect, for after the churning they are of less importance. Part of them collect in the butter, part of them are washed off from the butter in the buttermilk and the subsequent processes.
Most of the bacteria that are left in the butter soon die, not finding there a favourable condition for growth; some of them, however, live and grow for some time and are prominent agents in the changes by which butter becomes rancid. The butter maker is concerned with the ripening rather than with later processes. After this ripening the cream is churned. It is during the ripening that the bacteria produce their effect, for after the churning they are of less importance. Part of them collect in the butter, part of them are washed off from the butter in the buttermilk and the subsequent
An example of this is the bacteria Pseudomonas. Psychotrophs are tested for, and the butter must be cleared before it can be sold. Other bacteria such as coliforms (eg E.coli) can grow in butter that is kept at room temperature, but this is usually a result of contamination from the manufacturing process. Butter that contain coliforms can not be sold according to industry standards. But for the most part butter will keep just fine and the natural bacteria in it won't spoil it, just keep it covered to keep out foreign bacteria and fungus. Source(s): http://www.science-projects.com/dairybac... Macaca · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Answers. Best Answer: Bacteria can grow in butter, but the very high fat content means it is not ideal for bacterial growth the way, say, milk is. Butter is made from milk so as long as the milk is pasteurised first (and it always is) your butter is pretty safe. But for the most part butter will keep just fine and the natural bacteria in it won't spoil it, just keep it covered to keep out foreign bacteria and fungus. Source(s): http://www.science-projects.com/dairybac... Macaca · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
So despite feeling wet and greasy, peanut butter is actually extremely dry, with a moisture content of about 2 percent, according to Lydia Botham, the public affairs director for Land O’Lakes Inc. Without water, most bacteria and fungi can’t survive. Peanut butter can go rancid in about a year and lose its flavor. While fungi and bacteria won’t ruin your peanut butter, oxygenation eventually will. The axiom that tasty foods are fatty foods is certainly true in the case of peanut butter.
Kefir butter is a term Bar Tartine uses to describe cream cultured with kefir grains and churned into butter. Kefir grains are opaque, probiotic colonies of lactic acid bacteria, yeast, lipids, sugars, and proteins that turn milk lactose into tangy lactic acid. 
Butter is made of butterfat, water, and some milk proteins. Commercial butter is 80–82 percent milk fat, 16–17 percent water, and 1–2 percent milk solids other than fat (sometimes referred to as curd). It may contain salt, added directly to the butter in concentrations of 1 to 2 percent. Unsalted butter is often referred to as “sweet” butter.
Salt, flavorings and preservatives are sometimes added to butter. Rendering butter produces clarified butter or ghee, which is almost entirely butterfat. Butter is a water-in-oil emulsion resulting from an inversion of the cream, an oil-in-water emulsion; the milk proteins are the emulsifiers. Butter remains a solid when refrigerated, but softens to a spreadable consistency at room temperature, and melts to a thin liquid consistency at 32–35 °C (90–95 °F). Commercial butter is about 80% butterfat and 15% water; traditionally made butter may have as little as 65% fat and 30% water. Butterfat is a mixture of triglyceride, a tri ester derived from glycerol and three of any of several fatty acid groups.
Confidence votes 15.3K. Most butter doesn't use bacteria in it's formation. It's just pure milk fat. There could be some butters that are special processes that use bacteria in some way but put butter is extracted from cream by agitating the cream until the milk fat separates from the cream and forms lumps of butter.
Butter consists of butterfat, milk proteins and water. Most frequently made from cows ' milk, butter can also be manufactured from the milk of other mammals, including sheep, goats, buffalo, and yaks. Commercial butter is about 80% butterfat and 15% water; traditionally made butter may have as little as 65% fat and 30% water. Butterfat is a mixture of triglyceride, a tri ester derived from glycerol and three of any of several fatty acid groups.