During this time the President made a number of reports to Congress consistent with the War Powers Resolution regarding the use of U.S. forces, but never cited Section 4(a)(1), and thus did not trigger the 60 day time limit.
The War Powers Resolution is sometimes referred to as the War Powers Act, its title in the version passed by the Senate. This Joint Resolution is codified in the United States Code (USC) in Title 50, Chapter 33, Sections 1541-48 (external link) .
For the first time, organizations and persons are specified in a Congressional authorization to use force pursuant to the War Powers Resolution, rather than just nations. 2002: Congress authorized President George W. Bush to use force against Iraq, pursuant to the War Powers Resolution, in Public Law 107-243 (PDF).
The War Powers Resolution (P.L. 93-148) was passed over the veto of President Nixon on November 7, 1973, to provide procedures for Congress and the President to participate in decisions to send U.S. Armed Forces into hostilities.
Congress, as part of a compromise with the President, passed Public Law 98-119 in October 1983 authorizing U.S. troops to remain in Lebanon for 18 months. This resolution was signed by the President, and was the first time a President had signed legislation invoking the War Powers Resolution.
Introduction War Powers of President The Constitution divides war powers between the Congress and the President. This division was intended by the framers to ensure that wars would not be entered into easily: it takes two keys, not one, to start the engine of war.
This guide is intended to serve as an introduction to research on the War Powers Resolution, Public Law 93-148 (external link) , 87 Stat. 555, passed over President Nixon's veto on November 7, 1973.
On June 19, 1998, President Clinton reported to Congress “consistent with the War Powers Resolution” regarding activities in the last six months of combat-e quipped U.S. forces in support of NATO’s SFOR in Bosnia and surrounding areas of former Yugoslavia. (66) Kenya and Tanzania.
Its purpose is said “to fulfill the intent of the framers of the Constitution” to 1 President Nixon vetoed the War Powers Resolution on October 24, 1973. His veto message declared that the automatic 60 day termination provision, § 5(b), and legislative veto provision, § 5(c), were unconstitu­tional.
He felt that a WPR which was enacted with the approval of the President would constitute a “compact between Congress and the President. Holt, The War Powers Resolution: The Role of Congress in U.S. Armed Intervention 1-2 (1978).