Average Heavy Equipment Operator salaries for job postings in Houston, TX are 13% higher than average Heavy Equipment Operator salaries for job postings nationwide. 
$28,000. Average heavy equipment operator salaries for job postings nationwide are 51% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
Career Outlook. The top state in the job market for heavy equipment operators is Wyoming, where the demand is 7.75 times higher than the national average. West Virginia has the second highest demand, 3.82 higher than the national average, and the lowest yearly wage at $44,550. The highest-paying state is Hawaii, where the average annual wage is $68,120, followed by New York, Illinois, California and New Jersey, where the average operator earns $63,060 per year.
Heavy Equipment Operator Salary. (United States). Men make up the majority of Heavy Equipment Operators in the United States, and the nationwide average salary in this area lies in the neighborhood of $18.24 per hour. Compensation for this group is mainly affected by geographic location, but the specific employer and years of experience are influential factors as well. Most notably, skills in foreman, Blueprints, heavy equipment operator, and Welding are correlated to pay that is above average, with boosts between 12 percent and 19 percent.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Heavy Equipment Operator in the United States is $62,075, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Heavy Equipment Operator in the United States are expected to make less than $62,075. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. The annual salary for someone with the job title Heavy Equipment Operator may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Average Heavy Equipment Operator Salaries. The average salary for heavy equipment operator jobs is $33,000. Average heavy equipment operator salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term heavy equipment operator anywhere in the job listing. 
National Salary. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reports the median wage for heavy equipment operators in the United States is $41,870, an hourly wage of $20.13 per hour, as of May 2012. The highest-paying state is Hawaii, where the average annual wage is $68,120, followed by New York, Illinois, California and New Jersey, where the average operator earns $63,060 per year.
Heavy Equipment Operator Salary. (Canada). The average wage for a Heavy Equipment Operator is C$24.74 per hour. A skill in heavy equipment operator is associated with high pay for this job.