Average LASIK Eye Surgery Costs. Keep in mind that these prices are for one procedure, which means one eye only. If you're having LASIK on both eyes, you'll need to double the price quoted. In 2014, the average cost overall for laser vision correction was $2,118 per eye (up from $2,073 the previous year). We explain these factors in our article,  How to Compare Laser Eye Surgery Costs .. But for now, here are current average U.S. LASIK prices we have obtained from a leading industry analyst. The figures are based on a survey of refractive surgeons conducted for full-year 2014.
The national average LASIK eye cost surgery with doctors who only offer one price was $2,259 per eye in 2014, up $43 from 2013. There are several different FDA approved LASIK procedures and research is required to learn what type you are considering. LASIK eye surgery cost is priced separately per eye and varies significantly depending on the technology used. LASIK prices have increased slightly in 2015 due to advancements in laser technologies.
The costs. The cost of laser eye surgery varies, depending on the type of procedure and the technology used. Typical costs are between $1500 to $3700 (on average $2500) per eye. 
The Real Cost of Laser Eye Surgery. The cost of laser eye surgery can range from as low as $299 per eye to up to $4,000 or more per eye. The average price of custom bladeless LASIK eye surgery in 2013 was about $2,500 USD per eye. Geography, surgical experience, technology (e.g., which lasers), insurance benefits, and healthcare savings all influence your real cost of laser eye surgery. 
Laser Eye Surgery Cost. There is a considerable range in the cost of laser eye surgery depending on the clinic you choose and the exact procedure that is required. One of the most important things to consider when researching the price of your treatment is that you are comparing 'like for like'. 1 Monovision: £395 - £2500 per eye: Monovision laser eye surgery is the same price as the equivalent Lasik or Lasek that you choose.
LASIK Eye Surgery Cost (the Elephant in the Eye Exam Room). The LASIK eye surgery cost in North America varies drastically, from less than $1,000 to more than $4,000 per eye. That can be a dizzying figure to interpret, but knowing what you should expect to pay shouldn’t be a mystery. 
Average LASIK Prices-Reported by Surgeons in 2014. The national average cost of LASIK during 2014 using the FDA approved bladed method is $1,700 per eye. Alternatively, state-of-the-art technologies such as bladeless Custom-Wavefront LASIK is $2,300 per eye and varies by geographic region and surgeon experience. LASIK eye surgery cost is priced separately per eye and varies significantly depending on the technology used. LASIK prices have increased slightly in 2015 due to advancements in laser technologies.
1 The national average cost is $1,912 per eye*, however the QualSight price is under $1,400. 2  Bladeless-also known as all-laser LASIK or IntraLase and utilizes an additional femtosecond laser which typically adds several hundreds of dollars in cost making it the highest priced procedure. LASIK eye surgery cost is priced separately per eye and varies significantly depending on the technology used. LASIK prices have increased slightly in 2015 due to advancements in laser technologies.
1 The cost of laser eye surgery, known as LASIK, varies widely from surgeon to surgeon, with a national average of about $1,950 per eye. 2  Average prices do not vary much by geographic region, but minimum and maximum fees do. 3  All About Vision provides a chart of regional cost differences. Typical costs: Related articles: Eyelid Surgery. 1  The cost of laser eye surgery, known as LASIK, varies widely from surgeon to surgeon, with a national average of about $1,950 per eye. 2  Average prices do not vary much by geographic region, but minimum and maximum fees do.