And cancers caused by infectious agents (like stomach cancer caused by infection with the bacteria Helicobacter pylori, or liver cancer caused by infection with the hepatitis B or C virus) are characterised by one thing: chronic inflammation. In the case against inflammation, the evidence is damning. And we now know that inflammation’s dark side is a powerful force in cancer development, where it aids and abets tumour growth and spread around the body.
Some, but not all types of arthritis, are the result of misdirected inflammation. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Psoriatic arthritis. 3  Gouty arthritis. 4  Systemic lupus erythematosus
In contrast, chronic inflammation may lead to a host of diseases, such as hay fever, periodontitis, atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and even cancer (e.g., gallbladder carcinoma). Inflammation is therefore normally closely regulated by the body. Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues.
Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process. Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues.
Some, but not all, types of arthritis are the result of misdirected inflammation. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in the joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include the following: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Psoriatic arthritis. 3  Gouty arthritis.
Why the inflammation continues is not always known. Chronic inflammation may be caused by infections that don’t go away, abnormal immune reactions to normal tissues, or conditions such as obesity. Over time, chronic inflammation can cause DNA damage and lead to cancer. Chronic Inflammation. Inflammation is a normal physiological response that causes injured tissue to heal. An inflammatory process starts when chemicals are released by the damaged tissue.
Most sinus cancers are squamous cell carcinomas that originate in the lining of the sinuses or nasal cavity. Less common types of sinus and nasal cavity cancers include melanomas (the most dangerous type of skin cancer) and sarcomas (cancer affecting connective tissue). Many of the symptoms of sinus cancer resemble those of inflammation or infection of the sinuses (sinusitis), such as congestion, postnasal drip, runny nose, pain under the eyes or above the eyebrows, and earache or toothache. Nosebleeds and eye symptoms can also occur.
As shown in Table 1, the types of chronic inflammation that lead to cancer are varied. In some cases, the progenitors of the inflammation are known. These include chronic bacterial and parasitic infections, chemical irritants, and nondigestible particles. 
Chronic, persistent inflammation is behind a host of health problems such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. And after finding immune cells in tumour samples, Rudolf Virchow was the first to ask whether inflammation might also contribute to cancer. And we now know that inflammation’s dark side is a powerful force in cancer development, where it aids and abets tumour growth and spread around the body.