A puppy can be vaccinated for Parvovirus as early as 5 weeks. A combination vaccine (5-way) should be given at 6 and 9 weeks. At 12 and 15 weeks of age your puppy will need another combination vaccine, possibly a 7-way, as well as a rabies vaccine. Adult dogs will also require a booster shot once a year
A second vaccination is recommended after 1 year, then boosters every 3 years. Core dog vaccine. Distemper. At least 3 doses, given between 6 and 16 weeks of age. 2 doses, given 3-4 weeks apart. Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing their initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often.
Puppies need to be dewormed and need to be given their shots between the age of seven to nine weeks, twelve to thirteen weeks and sixteen to eighteen weeks to make sure that they are properly protected against distemper, canine adenovirus and canine parvovirus. This is a vaccine that is most often given to dogs. Whenever we go to board our dog, we are always asked if he has his Bordetella shots or not. Bordetella is also known as the kennel-cough shot. Kennel-cough is very mild and lasts for a short period of time.
How often they should get them, and how the shots should be given (singly or as combination vaccines). Although the AAHA and AVMA still recommend yearly boosters for all dogs. A lot of research shows that this is not strictly necessary-and can even cause health problems. If you've adopted an older pup or adult dog and don't know their puppy shots history, then the minimum vaccinations you'll need to get them are against Distemper, Parvo and Hepatitis. He/she will need two rounds of shots, given 3 weeks apart.
Puppies should receive their first canine distemper, canine adenovirus (infectious canine hepatitis) and canine parvovirus at 7-9 weeks of age, then at 12-13 weeks of age, and finally at 16-18 weeks of age to insure they are solidly protected against these diseases. We are just luck that dogs don't get the number of vaccination-associated tumors that cats do. The exceptions are vaccine against leptospirosis, which seem to only last a year and vaccination against kennel cough (which last six months to a year) and vaccinations against Lyme disease.
Consult with your veterinarian to determine which vaccinations your puppy should receive, and how often. Drs. Foster and Smith prefer to vaccinate puppies with a combination vaccine at six weeks of age initially, with boosters given every three weeks until the puppy is about sixteen weeks of age. We feel that this schedule will help protect the widest range of dogs
I just got a puppy and I cannot for the life of me remember how often they need shots. He is a Saint Bernard and is eight weeks old. He had his First shot May 24, 2007. It goes by a number of names, including DHPP, DA2PP, and “five way”. Puppies should get this vaccine every three to four weeks, starting at 6 – 8 weeks of age, and ending at 12 – 16 weeks of age. In your case, I’d recommend having your pet vaccinated immediately (or at least within the next week), and then following up with two more injections at monthly intervals
It’s almost impossible to get a group of vets to agree on just how often adult pets need shots. However, almost all of us agree that it is critical for puppies and kittens to get a series of at least three shots before they are 16 weeks old. It goes by a number of names, including DHPP, DA2PP, and “five way”. Puppies should get this vaccine every three to four weeks, starting at 6 – 8 weeks of age, and ending at 12 – 16 weeks of age. In your case, I’d recommend having your pet vaccinated immediately (or at least within the next week), and then following up with two more injections at monthly intervals
Timing. Different veterinarians have different protocols about the timing of vaccinations. Most veterinarians recommend that a puppy receive his first parvovirus vaccination when he is 8 weeks old. The second vaccination is given in three to four weeks, about age 11 to 12 weeks. A third vaccination is given in three to four more weeks, about age 14 to 15 weeks. A vaccination is sometimes given three to four weeks later, about age 17 to 18 weeks. Most all veterinarians agree the final vaccination in the series should be given after the puppy is 4 months old. Once the puppy series is complete, your dog should received a booster vaccination each year.