The thermosphere is the layer of Earth's atmosphere that still contains substantial molecules of heavier gases. It occurs below the outermost layer, the exosphere, which consists mainly of a near-vacuum of hydrogen and helium. The definition of thermosphere is the atmosphere layer between the mesophere and the exosphere The thermoshpere is the biggest of all the layers of the Earth's atmospher … edirecly above the mesosphere and directly below the exoshpere. 2 people found this useful. Myra Birgitte (myrab51). 2,041,619 Contributions.
The layer of atmosphere above the mesosphere, which extends from 50 to 55 miles (80-90 km) above the sea level with the upper limit undefined. The temperature in this region initially rises rapidly with heights up to about 120 miles (200 km) and thereafter increases more slowly or not at all. the layer of the upper atmosphere located between the mesopause—that is, the upper boundary of the mesosphere—and the base of the exosphere. On the average, the thermosphere extends from a height of about 80 km to a height of about 500 km; these limits vary by ±10–20 percent.
The thermosphere (or the upper atmosphere) is the height region above 85 km, while the region between the tropospause and the mesopause is the middle atmosphere (stratosphere and mesosphere) where absorption of solar UV radiation generates the temperature maximum near 45 km altitude and causes the ozone layer. Radiation causes the atmosphere particles in this layer to become electrically charged (see ionosphere), enabling radio waves to bounce off and be received beyond the horizon. In the exosphere, beginning at 500 to 1,000 kilometres (310 to 620 mi) above the Earth's surface, the atmosphere turns into space.
Definition of THERMOSPHERE. : the part of the earth's atmosphere that begins at about 50 miles (80 kilometers) above the earth's surface, extends to outer space, and is characterized by steadily increasing temperature with height. — ther·mo·spher·ic \ˌthər-mə-ˈsfir-ik, -ˈsfer-\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.
The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The thermosphere is directly above the mesosphere and below the exosphere. It extends from about 90 km (56 miles) to between 500 and 1,000 km (311 to 621 miles) above our planet. Below the thermosphere, gases made of different types of atoms and molecules are thoroughly mixed together by turbulence in the atmosphere. Air in the lower atmosphere is mainly composed of the familiar blend of about 80% nitrogen molecules (N 2) and about 20% oxygen molecules (O 2).
The definition of thermosphere is the atmosphere layer between the mesophere and the exosphere The thermoshpere is the biggest of all the layers of the Earth's atmospher … edirecly above the mesosphere and directly below the exoshpere. 2 people found this useful. The thermosphere is the layer of Earth's atmosphere that still contains substantial molecules of heavier gases.
Thermosphere. The thermosphere is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere directly above the mesosphere and directly below the exosphere. Within this layer, ultraviolet radiation causes ionization. Called from the Greek θερμός meaning heat, the thermosphere begins about 85 kilometres above the Earth. 
The thermosphere is directly above the mesosphere and below the exosphere. It extends from about 90 km (56 miles) to between 500 and 1,000 km (311 to 621 miles) above our planet. Solar activity strongly influences temperature in the thermosphere. The thermosphere is typically about 200° C (360° F) hotter in the daytime than at night, and roughly 500° C (900° F) hotter when the Sun is very active than at other times.
The thermosphere is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere directly above the mesosphere and directly below the exosphere. Radiation causes the atmosphere particles in this layer to become electrically charged (see ionosphere), enabling radio waves to bounce off and be received beyond the horizon. In the exosphere, beginning at 500 to 1,000 kilometres (310 to 620 mi) above the Earth's surface, the atmosphere turns into space.