Amy Werner, MT (ASCP) What medical technologists do The medical technologist has the best of both worlds with the challenges and rewards of medicine and science. The medical technologist performs a full range of laboratory tests-from simple pre-marital blood tests, to more complex tests to uncover diseases such as AIDS, diabetes, and cancer. A medical technologist who gains experience in one of the special areas of the laboratory has the opportunity to advance to a specialist level. In today's laboratories, areas of scientific exploration are the immune system, cell marker technology, bioengineering and cancer research.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Medical Technologist (ASCP) in the United States is $64,289 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Technologist (ASCP) in the United States are expected to make less than $64,289. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $64,289. 
Medical laboratory technologists (commonly known as medical laboratory scientists) and medical laboratory technicians collect samples and perform tests to analyze body fluids, tissue, and other substances. However, technologists perform more complex tests and laboratory procedures than technicians do. For example, technologists may prepare specimens and perform manual tests that are based on detailed instructions, whereas technicians perform routine tests that may be more automated.
Like technologists, medical laboratory technicians may work in several areas of the laboratory or specialize in one particular area. For example, histotechnicians cut and stain tissue specimens for pathologists, who are doctors who study the cause and development of diseases at a microscopic level. However, technologists perform more complex tests and laboratory procedures than technicians do. For example, technologists may prepare specimens and perform manual tests that are based on detailed instructions, whereas technicians perform routine tests that may be more automated.
Essential Information. Medical technologists, also known as clinical laboratory technologists, perform and analyze the results of complex scientific tests on blood and bodily fluids. These highly trained professionals work in hospitals and independent laboratories using sophisticated procedures and equipment. Over 50% of medical and clinical laboratory technologists were employed by hospitals as of 2012, while the rest worked in laboratories, physicians' offices, or colleges and universities. Additionally, the BLS reported that the median annual salary for medical and clinical laboratory technologists was $59,430 in 2014.
Medical Technologists and Medical Laboratory Technicians examine and analyze body fluids, such as blood and cells. The difference between Medical Technologists and Medical Laboratory Technicians is the complexity of tests performed, the level of judgment needed, and the amount of responsibility each has. Medical Technologists and Medical Laboratory Technicians play a crucial role in the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of disease by performing tests in laboratories.
A medical technologist, also known as a clinical laboratory scientist, conducts diagnostic laboratory tests that are important in detecting, analyzing, and treating a wide variety of diseases and medical conditions. She doesn't make as much as a medical technologist, but also doesn't have the same amount of responsibility. Her boss, who is a medical technologist, is responsible for the whole lab in the hospital where she works.
Hospitals request and process millions of lab tests every year. Medical technologists conduct lab tests that are important in detecting, analyzing and treating a wide variety of medical conditions. A medical technologist conducts diagnostic laboratory tests. A medical lab tech holding a urine sample. View slideshow of images above. She doesn't make as much as a medical technologist, but also doesn't have the same amount of responsibility. Her boss, who is a medical technologist, is responsible for the whole lab in the hospital where she works.
Medical laboratory technicians assist physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases by performing tests on tissue, blood and other body fluids. Medical lab technicians most commonly work in hospitals or doctors' offices. Medical lab technicians work under the supervision of a physician, lab manager or medical technologist and perform laboratory tests on specimens. The tests that lab techs conduct assist doctors in verifying the causes of an illness, making medical decisions and determining treatment option