The relationship between latitude and temperature is as follows.  The sun shines longest and strongest on the central part of the  earth, the equator. The equator is latitud … e zero. As a traveler  moves north or south from the equator, the land gets less sun and  is colder. There is a difference in climate between areas at 0 latitude and  areas at 45 latitude because higher latitudes have colder  temperatures. This is because they are farther a … way from the  equator. 1 person found this useful.
One of the most important factors determining your climate is your latitude. Between 23.5S and 23.5N latitude we have the tropics-where high temperatures are the norm, and the sun can beat down from directly overhead once or twice each year. From 23.5N to 66.5N and between 23.5S and 66.5S are the temperate zones, where there are clear spring/summer/fall/winter seasons. Equal to the tilt of Earth's axis, or 23.5 deg. Just as in Question 5-1-1 above, at the winter solstice, the angle between the arrow pointing to the sun and the arrow pointing to the celestial equator in the interactive graphic above is equal to the tilt of Earth's axis, 23.5 degrees.
The relationship between latitude and temperature is as follows.  The sun shines longest and strongest on the central part of the  earth, the equator. The equator is latitud … e zero. As a traveler  moves north or south from the equator, the land gets less sun and  is colder. Making the world better, one answer at a time. As latitude increases temperature decreases. This is due to the atmosphere being warmed by the ground. The farther you are from the ground the lower the temperature.
From equator line, higher or lower the latitude is colder the climate and greater difference in temperature between summer and winter. There is a difference in climate between areas at 0 latitude and  areas at 45 latitude because higher latitudes have colder  temperatures. This is because they are farther a … way from the  equator. 1 person found this useful.
What is the Relationship Between Temperature and Latitude? The closer a country is from the equator, the hotter it will be, since the equator is the hottest spot on earth, because most sunlight hits on the earth year-round. The farther away a country is from the equator, the colder it will be. This is because not much heat can hit there, and the sun's rays will have to hit earth at an an angle, causing less movement in the atoms, generating less heat.
(3) Graph latitude and temperature. Label the x and y axes and add a title to your graph. (4) Using the spreadsheet, construct a bar graph of your data. (5) Write a recport on whether there is a relationship between latitude and temperature. If there is a relationship, discuss the pattern your data support. (2) Make a data table using a spreadsheet program such as Excel with the variables Latitude and Temperature.. Round off the latitude to the nearest degree and arrange the weather stations in terms of their ascending order of latitude. Record the temperatures at each weather station.
What is the general relationship between a city’s temperature range between January and July and its latitude? Explain why this is true.The greater the distance from the equator, the more the temperature varies over the year. This is because the equator receives more constant direct rays of light from the sun. 010.020.030.040.00 15.00 30.00 45.00 60.00 Latitude vs. Temperature Difference)Latitude (degrees).
My thesis is the temperature of a country can vary on latitude because the closer or farther a country is from the equator, the hotter or colder it will be. Near the equator, temperatures are always high. There is a lot of rain, and areas around it can range with high and low precipitation. The farther away a country is from the equator, the colder it will be. This is because not much heat can hit there, and the sun's rays will have to hit earth at an an angle, causing less movement in the atoms, generating less heat.
The climate is cooler at 45 degrees latitude compared to 0 degrees latitude because the Sun is shining at a different angle. There is a difference in climate between areas at 0 latitude and  areas at 45 latitude because higher latitudes have colder  temperatures. This is because they are farther a … way from the  equator. 1 person found this useful.