Your doctor may suggest hormone therapy if you have advanced or high-risk prostate cancer at the time of your diagnosis, if your prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level is rising despite previous treatment for prostate cancer, or if you aren’t able to have surgery or radiation therapy for your disease. Hormone therapy is among the most effective forms of systemic therapy (about 85 to 90 percent effective) for prostate cancer. Used alone, hormone therapy does not cure prostate cancer, but it does stop the disease from progressing for a period of time.
If you have advanced prostate cancer, hormone therapy is likely to be a life-long treatment. Your hormone therapy may keep your cancer under control for several months or years. But over time the behaviour of the cancer cells may change and your cancer might start to grow again. Advantages. 1  Hormone therapy is an effective treatment for prostate cancer. 2  It can treat prostate cancer wherever it is in the body. 3  It can be used alongside other treatments to make them more effective. 4  It can help to reduce some of the symptoms of advanced prostate cancer, such as urinary symptoms.
But even in cases where removing or killing the cancer isn't possible, hormone therapy can help slow down cancer growth. Though it isn't a cure, hormone therapy for prostate cancer can help men with prostate cancer feel better and add years to their lives. On average, hormone therapy can stop the advance of cancer for two to three years. However, it varies from case to case. Your ... I think hormonal therapy has done wonders for men with prostate cancer , Stuart Holden, MD, Medical Director of the Prostate Cancer Foundation. Hormone therapy for prostate cancer does have limitations.
Hormone (androgen deprivation) therapy for prostate cancer. Hormone therapy is also called androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) or androgen suppression therapy. The goal is to reduce levels of male hormones, called androgens, in the body, or to stop them from affecting prostate cancer cells.
Hormone therapy is used in men with advanced prostate cancer to shrink the cancer and slow the growth of tumors. In men with early-stage prostate cancer, hormone therapy may be used to shrink tumors before radiation therapy. This can make it more likely that radiation therapy will be successful. 
In prostate cancer that has spread, hormone therapy can sometimes make symptoms disappear completely. It may also control the cancer for a few years. In time, the cancer usually stops responding to hormone treatment and starts to grow again. Doctors call this hormone refractory prostate cancer or say that the cancer has become resistant to the treatment. There are various treatment options when that happens. They control the growth and activity of normal cells. Cancer of the prostate gland depends on the male hormone testosterone to grow. So lowering the amount of testosterone in the body can lower the risk of an early prostate cancer coming back after
Typically, you can expect hormone therapy to control your prostate cancer for at least one to four years and possibly for as long as 10 years or more. Hormone therapy is among the most effective forms of systemic therapy (about 85 to 90 percent effective) for prostate cancer. Used alone, hormone therapy does not cure prostate cancer, but it does stop the disease from progressing for a period of time.
Hormone therapy alone won’t cure your prostate cancer but it can keep it under control, sometimes for several years, before you need further treatment. It is also used with other treatments, such as radiotherapy, to make them more effective. Advantages. 1  Hormone therapy is an effective treatment for prostate cancer. 2  It can treat prostate cancer wherever it is in the body. 3  It can be used alongside other treatments to make them more effective. 4  It can help to reduce some of the symptoms of advanced prostate cancer, such as urinary symptoms.
Hormone therapy will be a life-long treatment for many men with advanced prostate cancer. It can control the cancer and manage symptoms such as bone pain. Prostate cancer that has come back. If your cancer has come back after treatment, hormone therapy will be one of the treatments available for you. Advantages. 1  Hormone therapy is an effective treatment for prostate cancer. 2  It can treat prostate cancer wherever it is in the body. 3  It can be used alongside other treatments to make them more effective. 4  It can help to reduce some of the symptoms of advanced prostate cancer, such as urinary symptoms.
You may have hormone therapy without a break (continuously). Or you may have a few months treatment, followed by a break, then more treatment and so on. Doctors call this intermittent therapy. It cuts down on side effects, but may not control the cancer for quite as long. They control the growth and activity of normal cells. Cancer of the prostate gland depends on the male hormone testosterone to grow. So lowering the amount of testosterone in the body can lower the risk of an early prostate cancer coming back after treatment.