A groin strain causes sharp pain or spasms in the groin area. The pain can quickly resolve, or it can persist, developing into a throbbing pain at rest with sharp stabs of pain when you try to move your leg or walk. The muscles can feel tight or weak. A groin strain is an injury to the groin area, the area of the body where the abdomen meets the leg and the inner thigh muscles attach to the pubic bone.
Groin problems may cause pain in the groin, hip, or knee. Common causes of groin symptoms include: 1  Legg-Calve-Perthes disease. 2  This condition affects the blood supply or proper placement of the upper part of the thighbone (head of the femur) in the hip socket. 3  Slipped capital femoral epiphysis. Most of the time when a serious problem is causing groin pain, you will have other symptoms. It is important to look for other signs of illness when you have groin pain but no known injury. Most hernias have other symptoms besides groin pain, though pain may be an early sign of an inguinal hernia.
Groin pain is any discomfort in the groin area. The groin area is where your abdomen ends and your legs begin. The groin is also called the inguinal area and includes your upper inner thigh as well as the front area where your legs attach to your torso. In men, groin pain may also refer to pain that radiates into or from the scrotum or the testicles within the scrotum.
Pain in the groin and lower back may have a variety of symptoms. You could feel a burning sensation, a dull aching pain, or a sharp pain. It is sometimes also associated with muscle spasms of the large muscles that run alongside the spine. Groin and lower back pain is felt where the abdomen ends and the legs begin. 
The following types of arthritis can affect the hip: 1  Inflammatory arthritis (when inflammation leaves your joints swollen and warm) often feels like a dull ache in your groin, buttocks, or thigh that’s more intense in the mornings; it feels better when you're active. “Some people think they have hip arthritis if the pain is on the outside of the hip,” he says. But pain in that area points to a different problem called bursitis, which is when the fluid-filled sac that cushions your bones becomes inflamed.
1 A broken hip (fracture), an infected hip joint, or a stress fracture of the hip. 2  Arthritis. 3  Arthritis can cause groin pain, stiffness, or a limp. 4  Back problems. 5  Spine problems in the back near the lower ribs can pinch the nerves that travel through the groin area and cause groin and thigh pain. Most of the time when a serious problem is causing groin pain, you will have other symptoms. It is important to look for other signs of illness when you have groin pain but no known injury. Most hernias have other symptoms besides groin pain, though pain may be an early sign of an inguinal hernia.
Arthritis Pain: Pinpointing the Type. The most common place you’ll feel pain from hip arthritis is in your groin or buttock area, Dr. Zashin says. “Some people think they have hip arthritis if the pain is on the outside of the hip,” he says. But pain in that area points to a different problem called bursitis, which is when the fluid-filled sac that cushions your bones becomes inflamed.
Hip Flexor Strain. A hip flexor strain is a tear of one of the two muscles at the front of the hip that lift the leg upwards. Sudden onset pain at the front of the hip or in the groin may be felt. Swelling and bruising may occur in more serious cases. Iliopsoas Bursitis. Iliopsoas bursitis symptoms include pain at the front of the hip that may radiate down to the knee or even into the buttocks. There will be tenderness at the front of the hips and possibly in the front of the quadriceps muscles.
Many people are confused about where their hip really is. “Pain that involves the hip joint is usually in the groin, right where your leg meets your body, Dr. Stuchin says. The hip joint is in the groin and you can feel it as low as your knee, in the front of your leg down the thigh.”. Here are some common hip pain complaints and their symptoms. 