In this lab, you will study an enzyme that is found in the cells of many living tissues. The name of the enzyme is catalase (KAT-uh-LAYSS); it speeds up a reaction which breaks down hydrogen peroxide, a toxic chemical, into 2 harmless substances--water and oxygen. They do not die because your cells use enzymes to break down these poisonous chemicals into harmless substances. Enzymes are proteins that speed up the rate of reactions that would otherwise happen more slowly. The enzyme is not altered by the reaction.
Its functions include catalyzing the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen. Catalase has one of the highest turnover rates for all enzymes; one molecule of catalase can convert millions of molecules of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen per second. Catalase is a tetramer of four polypeptide chains, each over 500 amino acids long. It contains four porphyrin heme (iron) groups which allow the enzyme to react with the hydrogen peroxide. The optimum pH for catalase is approximately neutral (pH 7.0), while the optimum temperature varies by species. Source(s):
Catalase is a common enzyme found in nearly all living organisms exposed to oxygen (such as bacteria, plants, and animals). It catalyzes the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen. Catalase is a tetramer of four polypeptide chains, each over 500 amino acids long. It contains four porphyrin heme (iron) groups that allow the enzyme to react with the hydrogen peroxide. The optimum pH for human catalase is approximately 7, and has a fairly broad maximum (the rate of reaction does not change appreciably at pHs between 6.8 and 7.5)
Enzymes are protein molecules that speed up a chemical reaction by lowering the activation. energy. In this experiment, the action of catalase was tested on different types of tissue extracts. An enzyme called catalase breaks down hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen. In experiment number 3, we are comparing the action of catalase in different tissues by testing this hypothesis: The breakdown of hydrogen peroxide occurs at the same rate in all cells.
Likewise, catalase has one of the highest turnover numbers of all enzymes; one catalase molecule can convert approximately 5 million molecules of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen each second. Catalase is a tetramer of four polypeptide chains, each over 500 amino acids long. It contains four porphyrin heme (iron) groups that allow the enzyme to react with the hydrogen peroxide. The optimum pH for human catalase is approximately 7, and has a fairly broad maximum (the rate of reaction does not change appreciably at pHs between 6.8 and 7.5)
A purified catalase extract is mixed with substrate (H2O2) in a beaker. The enzyme catalyzes the conversion of H2O to H2O and O2 (gas). 2. Before all the H2O2 is converted to H2O and O2, the reaction is stopped by adding sulfuric acid (H2SO4). 
A damaged enzyme may no longer work to catalyze a chemical reaction. Catalase is an enzyme in the liver that breaks down harmful hydrogen peroxide into oxygen and water. When this reaction occurs, oxygen gas bubbles escape and create foam. Materials. • Raw liver (fresh or frozen, thawed; one quarter pound).
Catalase operated with a high efficiency when the pH of the enzyme was 7. As the catalase pH was altered to acidic or basic, the rate of reaction decreased. Introduction. Catalase is an enzyme that promotes the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen gas: H2O2  H2O + O2. Hydrogen peroxide is a potential hazard for the body, which is why it is used to kill bacteria (WKU, 2010). Cells would die if hydrogen peroxide is not broken down by catalase.
This reaction is important to cells because hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is produced as a byproduct of many normal cellular reactions. If the cells did not break down the hydrogen peroxide, they would be poisoned and die. Catalase-enzyme lab materials. They do not die because your cells use enzymes to break down these poisonous chemicals into harmless substances. Enzymes are proteins that speed up the rate of reactions that would otherwise happen more slowly. The enzyme is not altered by the reaction.