Causes of cyanosis. Cyanosis refers to bluish discoloration of skin, nail beds and mucous membranes. Normally haemoglobin carries most of the oxygen in blood. This oxygen carrying capacity of haemoglobin in the blood (present in the arteries) is called oxygen saturation. 
Cyanosis is the medical term for a bluish color of the skin and the mucous membranes due to an insufficient level of oxygen in the blood. For example, the lips and fingernails may show cyanosis. 
Cyanosis is a bluish hue to the skin, gums, fingernails, or mucous membranes caused by a lack of oxygen in the blood. When blood is fully oxygenated it appears bright red; when it lacks oxygen supply, the blood is a dark purple or bluish red. This lack of oxygen in the blood supply to a body part, such as the nail bed, skin, or mucous membrane, causes that body part to take on a bluish tint. Oxygen is present in your blood through hemoglobin, a red blood cell protein that carries oxygen
0. Cyanosis is the abnormal blue discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes, caused by an increase in the deoxygenated haemoglobin level to above 5 g/dL. 
Cyanosis is a physical sign causing bluish discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes. Cyanosis is caused by a lack of oxygen in the blood. Cyanosis is associated with cold temperatures, heart failure, lung diseases, and smothering. cyanosis. [sī′ənō′sis]. Etymology: Gk, kyanos, blue, osis, condition. bluish discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes caused by an excess of deoxygenated hemoglobin in the blood or a structural defect in the hemoglobin molecule, such as in methemoglobin. cyanotic, adj
Definition. Cyanosis is a physical sign causing bluish discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes. Cyanosis is caused by a lack of oxygen in the blood. Cyanosis is associated with cold temperatures, heart failure, lung diseases, and smothering. It is seen in infants at birth as a result of heart defects, respiratory distress syndrome, or lung and breathing problems. cyanosis. [sī′ənō′sis]. Etymology: Gk, kyanos, blue, osis, condition. bluish discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes caused by an excess of deoxygenated hemoglobin in the blood or a structural defect in the hemoglobin molecule, such as in methemoglobin.
Blue Skin Discoloration-Cyanosis. Cyanosis is a term used to describe a bluish tint to your skin, as well as your fingernails and fingertips. It is a condition caused by not having enough oxygen in your blood. In people with light skin, such as Caucasians, this is quite distinctive. Many of the health conditions that cause cyanosis are the result of abnormalities in the blood, lungs, or heart. Blood abnormalities may make it difficult for the blood to absorb oxygen. Lung abnormalities may be related to the following conditions: 1  a blood clot in the vessels of the lung (pulmonary embolism).
Cyanosis. admin | | 0 Comments. Cyanosis occurs when the blood lacks oxygen causing the skin to appear bluish or purplish. This condition could involve the lips, gums, tongue, nail beds, fingers, toes and mucous membranes. 