Link: how to install Clay Soldiers Mod. 1  Download and install Minecraft Forge. 2  Download the Package Manager here. 3  Drag the Package Manager into your mods folder. 4  Download the Clay Soldiers mod. 5  Drag the downloaded .jar file into your mods folder. 6  Run minecraft and enjoy. 
– – – – –. Here’s how it works: A clay soldier is an item you can hold in your hand. It is crafted using a clay block (for substance) and soulsand (for sustaining intelligent life). Specifically, one block of clay and one block of soulsand can be used to create four soldiers. 
Complicated install. 1  Navigate to the bin folder of your .minecraft directory, i.e. C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Roaming\.minecraft\bin. 2  MAKE A BACKUP OF YOUR MINECRAFT.JAR! 3  Open up the minecraft.jar with a decompression program, i.e. 7zip. 4  Install ModLoader, if it’s not happend yet. 1 MAKE A BACKUP OF YOUR MINECRAFT.JAR! 2  Open up the minecraft.jar with a decompression program, i.e. 7zip. 3  Install ModLoader, if it’s not happend yet. 4  Delete the META-INF folder! (if it’s still there). 5  Copy all files and directories from the zip into the minecraft.jar. 6  Save and close minecraft.jar. 7  Now start Minecraft.
Great video showing the contents of this mod-http://youtu.be/myJWA4zMgDA. This video will show you how to install the Clay Soldiers Mod. I will always update these links when Minecraft is updated! LINK: http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/9... Winrar: http://www.rarlab.com/download.htm. or. 7zip: http://7-zip.org/. If you found this helpful please Comment, Like and Subscribe! 
What happens when you use the disruptor. Splat! How to install the Clay Soldiers Mod for Minecraft: 1  Download the mod. 2  Important: Download and install Minecraft Forge. 3  Copy the mod .jar file(s) you downloaded to the “mods” folder, found inside the .minecraft folder. With this mod, the Clay Soldiers Mod, you can now use it for something much cooler! You can be the maniacal mastermind behind awesome and massive battles! This mod lets you create miniature armies out of the precious clay (and soulsand), but clay soldiers are not for fighting you, or your enemies, or anything else.
1 Navigate to the bin folder of your .minecraft directory, i.e. C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Roaming\.minecraft\bin. 2  MAKE A BACKUP OF YOUR MINECRAFT.JAR! 3  Open up the minecraft.jar with a decompression program, i.e. 7zip. 4  Install ModLoader, if it’s not happend yet. 1 MAKE A BACKUP OF YOUR MINECRAFT.JAR! 2  Open up the minecraft.jar with a decompression program, i.e. 7zip. 3  Install ModLoader, if it’s not happend yet. 4  Delete the META-INF folder! (if it’s still there). 5  Copy all files and directories from the zip into the minecraft.jar. 6  Save and close minecraft.jar. 7  Now start Minecraft.
How to install Clay Soldiers Mod for Minecraft 1.5.2/1.5.1/1.4.7. 12:32 am-August 4, 2013 1406 Views Tutorials. Installation: Easy install. 1  Install ModLoader first! 2  Drop the zip file into the mods folder in your .minecraft directory, i.e. C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Roaming\.minecraft\mods. 3  Play Minecraft. 1 MAKE A BACKUP OF YOUR MINECRAFT.JAR! 2  Open up the minecraft.jar with a decompression program, i.e. 7zip. 3  Install ModLoader, if it’s not happend yet. 4  Delete the META-INF folder! (if it’s still there). 5  Copy all files and directories from the zip into the minecraft.jar. 6  Save and close minecraft.jar. 7  Now start
This is a tutorial on how to easily install the clay soldier mod for minecraft. This tutorial is done both on windows 7 and windows 8 but is almost that same on windows XP and Vista. Minecraft Forge 1.6.2: http://adf.ly/kSQWZ. Clay Soldier Mod 1.6.2: http://adf.ly/kSPTl. Manager Pack 1.6.2: http://adf.ly/kSPdz. Commonly ask Questions: 
(24 votes). The Clay Soldiers Mod for Minecraft is a unique mod which allows the player to create large armies of clay soldiers which can then be used to engage in large-scale battles. It offers a bevy of options for creation and customization, providing a potentially endless supply of entertainment. The Clay Soldiers Mod for Minecraft is a unique mod which allows the player to create large armies of clay soldiers which can then be used to engage in large-scale battles