All living things are made of carbon. Carbon is also a part of the ocean, air, and even rocks. Because the Earth is a dynamic place, carbon does not stay still. It is on the move! In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to some oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide. Plants use carbon dioxide and sunlight to make their own food and grow. The carbon becomes part of the plant. Plants that die and are buried may turn into fossil fuels made of carbon like coal and oil over millions of years.
Plants pull carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, releasing the  oxygen and retaining the carbon, in a process known as  photosynthesis. Most photosynthesis is performed by ma … rine (ocean)  cyanobacteria.    Plants, trees and forests act as big carbon sinks, provided they do  not burn. … Venus and Mars have about 95% carbon dioxide in their atmospheres, but the atmosphere of Venus is very much thicker. Earth has only a small amount of carbon dioxide, but it's enough to have a greenhouse effect.
Carbon dioxide is an integral part of the carbon cycle, a biogeochemical cycle in which carbon is exchanged between the Earth's oceans, soil, rocks and biosphere. The Earth's oceans contain a large amount of CO 2 in the form of bicarbonate and carbonate ions — much more than the amount in the atmosphere. The bicarbonate is produced in reactions between rock, water, and carbon dioxide.
Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, meaning that it is among a family of gases including water vapor, ozone, and nitrous oxide. Together, these gases make the Earth habitable, by increasing heat efficiency and keeping the temperature of the planet stable. And CO2 is a greenhouse gas as is oxygen, water vapor and nitrogen. CO2 along with the other trap heat between the earths crust and the atmosphere, not letting it escape. This in turn raises the temperature of the earth.
Carbon dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere is essential to life and to the present planetary biosphere. Over the course of Earth's geologic history CO 2 concentrations have played a role in biological evolution. The Earth's oceans contain a large amount of CO 2 in the form of bicarbonate and carbonate ions — much more than the amount in the atmosphere. The bicarbonate is produced in reactions between rock, water, and carbon dioxide.
It is significant that so much carbon dioxide stays in the atmosphere because CO 2 is the most important gas for controlling Earth’s temperature. Carbon dioxide, methane, and halocarbons are greenhouse gases that absorb a wide range of energy—including infrared energy (heat) emitted by the Earth—and then re-emit it. The re-emitted energy travels out in all directions, but some returns to Earth, where it heats the surface.
Carbon dioxide is actually a very important greenhouse gas, and an important part of the process that makes Earth so pleasant to live on. The amount being generated, however, started to outstrip the Earth's abilities to handle it in the 20th century. And CO2 is a greenhouse gas as is oxygen, water vapor and nitrogen. CO2 along with the other trap heat between the earths crust and the atmosphere, not letting it escape. This in turn raises the temperature of the earth.
Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere: 1  allows sunlight and heat into the atmosphere, but doesn't let it get out, causing the Earth to heat up. 2  along with water vapor, methane, and a few other gases keep the Earth from becoming a deep freeze on the side away from the Sun. … Venus and Mars have about 95% carbon dioxide in their atmospheres, but the atmosphere of Venus is very much thicker. Earth has only a small amount of carbon dioxide, but it's enough to have a greenhouse effect.
Carbon monoxide is a trace gas in the atmosphere, and it does not have a direct effect on the global temperature, like methane and carbon dioxide do. However, carbon monoxide plays a major role in atmospheric chemistry, and it affects the ability of the atmosphere to cleanse itself of many other polluting gases. 
Carbon is the 15th most abundant element in the Earth's crust, and the fourth most abundant element in the universe by mass after hydrogen, helium, and oxygen. It is present in all forms of carbon-based life, and in the human body carbon is the second most abundant element by mass (about 18.5%) after oxygen. 