If you are from a visa exempt country, you do not need a passport or visa to re-enter the United States after travel in the western hemisphere. You will only need a Form I-94W and an Electronic System for Travel Authorization print-out. For more information about visa applications, visit the DoS website. Before you travel to a country other than yours to renew your visa, contact the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in that country. If you exit the United States and apply for a visa, you cannot return to the United States until DoS issues you a new visa. This could require a lengthy stay
You may use your visa to travel to the United States until the date it expires. However, if your visa says that it is valid indefinitely, you should apply for a new visa, or travel under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) if eligible as all indefinitely-valid visas are now obsolete. See further down this page. The period of validity of a visa relates only to the time in which you may travel to the United States and apply for admission; it does not determine how long you may remain in the country. This is a matter for the immigration officer at the port of entry.
However, you cannot return to the United States until your visa is issued. If the visa is denied, you will not be able to return to the United States as a student. For more information about visa applications visit the Department of State website at http://travel.state.gov/ . For more information about visa applications, visit the DoS website. Before you travel to a country other than yours to renew your visa, contact the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in that country. If you exit the United States and apply for a visa, you cannot return to the United States until DoS issues you a new visa. This could require a lengthy stay
The last day on which you may enter or be in the UK is the expiry date on the visa. Visitors to the UK may normally stay in the UK up to a maximum of six months. UK visas are normally valid for multiple entries to the UK, until the expiry date shown on the visa. The expiry date will be shown on the visa, but remember that this is also the last day on which you are permitted to stay in the UK. After Visa Issuance. Certain nationalities, known as visa nationals, need to obtain a visa before traveling to the UK. Even if you are not a visa national, you may need a visa, depending on the reason for com
Q: I have a visa that is valid for five years. Does that mean I can stay in the U.S. for five years? A: No. The visa validity is the length of time you are permitted to travel to a port of entry in the United States. A: A visa can be used until the date it expires to travel to the port of entry in the U.S. At the port of entry, a U.S. immigration officer will determine your authorized length of stay. Your visa does not need to be valid the entire time you are in the U.S. - only on the day you arrive at the port of entry.
The endorsed immigrant visa in your passport is normally valid for 1 year and may be used to apply for readmission to the U.S. if you need to travel abroad prior to receiving your green card. The endorsed immigrant visa in your passport is a de facto green card until you receive the actual card in the mail. 
No. If your visa is still valid you can travel to the United States with your two passports (old and new), as long as the visa is valid, not damaged, and is the appropriate type of visa required for your principal purpose of travel. (Example: tourist visa, when your principal purpose of travel is tourism). You must renew your F-1 visa if you decide to travel outside the U.S. and your current F-1 visa will expire before you re-enter the United States to continue your program. If this is the case, you will need to apply for another F-1 visa at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate.
You are allowed to stay in America until the valid date on the attached I-94. Your status is automatically converted to H1B Visa status starting from October 1st. If you plan to travel out and re-enter USA, then you will need a valid H1B Visa stamp in your passport, until then, there is no need. If you were part of the H1B 2015 quota, your H1B Approval notice, which is I-797 form, would indicate a start date of October 1 st, 2014. As per US Consular Guidance FAQs, you can apply for the visa stamping 90 days before the start date listed on your approval notice.
Please be aware that if you travel outside of the United States during your current exchange visitor program and after your J-1 visa has expired, you must apply for a new J-1 visa in your home country in order to re-enter the United States to continue your program. The wait time for an interview and processing for a J-1 Visa varies from country to country and is based on your individual circumstances. Learn more about interview wait and processing times by visiting www.travel.state.gov and select Visa Wait Times. We encourage you to apply as soon as possible.