It is also here in the Piazza Torre di Berta that you can see two of the most notabale palazzos in the town: the 16th century Pichi Palazzo and the 13th century Giovagnoli Palazzo. Also here in the centre, in an adjacent piazza, is the 14th century Sansepolcro Cathedral, dedicated to Saint John the Evangelist. Explore Sansepolcro: tourism and travel. The entire old town is still surrounded by its ancient fortified walls, so when you arrive you will park just outside these walls then enter the historic centre through one of the original stone entrances.
Sansepolcro is a pleasant and interesting town located on the plains of the Upper Tiber Valley, in the southeast of Tuscany, Italy, bordering Umbria and The Marches. Click here for a map of Sansepolcro, Italy. Sansepolcro-the main sights The Civic Museum of Sansepolcro (Palazzo della Residenza, constructed in the 13 C and 14 C) houses four works by Piero della Francesca. Its highlights are two of his main works: La Resurrezione and La Madonna della Misecordia.
Visit Sansepolcro (Tuscany, Italy). The town of Sansepolcro is best known for its historic center, with its cathedral and imposing palazzos, and for the important artworks in the museum. Explore Sansepolcro: tourism and travel. The entire old town is still surrounded by its ancient fortified walls, so when you arrive you will park just outside these walls then enter the historic centre through one of the original stone entrances.
Sansepolcro is best known for having two very well known paintings by Piero della Francesca, an early and influention renaissance artist who was born and spent much of his life in the town, which are the principal attraction for many visitors. Explore Sansepolcro: tourism and travel. The entire old town is still surrounded by its ancient fortified walls, so when you arrive you will park just outside these walls then enter the historic centre through one of the original stone entrances.
Sansepolcro, formerly Borgo Santo Sepolcro, is a town and comune in Tuscany, Italy, in the province of Arezzo. Situated on the upper reaches of the Tiber river, the town is the birthplace of the painters Piero della Francesca, Raffaellino del Colle (a pupil of Raphael), Santi di Tito, and Angiolo Tricca. It was also the birthplace of the Italian mathematician Luca Pacioli, and of Matteo Cioni, who translated into Latin Piero della Francesca's treatise about perspective in painting (De Prospectiva Pingendi). Today, the economy is based on agriculture, industrial manufacturing, food processing and pharmaceuticals.
Welcome to the Sansepolcro google satellite map! This place is situated in Arezzo, Toscana, Italy, its geographical coordinates are 43° 34' 0 North, 12° 8' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Sansepolcro. See Sansepolcro photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Sansepolcro in Italy. Maplandia.com in partnership with Booking.com offers highly competitive rates for all types of hotels in Sansepolcro, from affordable family hotels to the most luxurious ones. Booking.com, being established in 1996, is longtime Europe’s leader in online hotel reservations.
Sansepolcro is just 20 miles from Arezzo, but its location near the border puts it close to Citta di Castello in Umbria, and Urbania and Urbino is Le Marche. In its home region of Tuscany, you'll find Cortona and Lake Trasimeno, as well as Anghiari, Montepulciano and Montevarchi in easy reach. The heavy fortress that still bears their name is a symbol of the city. Sansepolcro gained prominence in the Middle Ages due to its location along trade routes that linked central Italy with the Adriatic coast.
Click here for festivals, fairs, jousts, processions, sagre, fiere, feste in Tuscany. Sansepolcro is situated in an area of Italy historically populated by Etruscans whose principal cities were Perugia, Cortona and Arezzo (all within a 60 km radius of Sansepolcro). The Upper Tiber valley was covered in walnut trees that were a source of timber to both Etruscans and Romans. Click here for a map of Sansepolcro, Italy. Sansepolcro-the main sights The Civic Museum of Sansepolcro (Palazzo della Residenza, constructed in the 13 C and 14 C) houses four works by Piero della Francesca. Its highlights are two of his main works: La Resurrezione and La Madonna della Misecordia.
Sansepolcro. The border town of Sansepolcro is an underrated gem. Sitting where Tuscany cozies up to Le Marche and Umbria, it is a lovely stone city with a sense of style. Its location in the Upper Tiber Valley makes it easier to get around than many medieval towns as it sits on mostly level ground. The heavy fortress that still bears their name is a symbol of the city. Sansepolcro gained prominence in the Middle Ages due to its location along trade routes that linked central Italy with the Adriatic coast.