1 Dementia is a syndrome caused by brain cell death. 2  Neurodegenerative disease is behind most dementias. 3  There are an estimated 47.5 million dementia sufferers worldwide. 4  This figure is expected to increase to 75.6 million by 2030 and 135.5 million by 2050. Dementia can also be caused by: 1,2,8. 1  Prion diseases-from certain types of protein, as in CJD (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease) and GSS (Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome). 2  HIV infection-when the problem is simply termed HIV-associated dementia. 3  How the virus damages brain cells is not certain.
Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe. Infections are most common in the spring and early summer. Not all patients with Lyme disease have all symptoms, and many of the symptoms are not specific to Lyme disease, but can occur with other diseases, as well. The incubation period from infection to the onset of symptoms is usually one to two weeks, but can be much shorter (days), or much longer (months to years).
© Will Taylor, MD 2001 (bio). When the totality of the symptoms that specially mark and distinguish the case of disease or, in other words, when the picture of the disease, whatever be its kind, is once accurately sketched, the most difficult part of the task is accomplished. The Totality of the Symptoms means all the symptoms of the case which are capable of being logically combined into a harmonious and consistent whole, having form, coherency and individuality. Technically, the totality is more (and may be less) than the mere numerical totality of the symptoms.
Some forms of dementia are reversible, some are not. Alzheimer disease is, in part, caused by the development of things called neurofibrillary tangles in brain cells that edge out what is otherwise supposed to be there. There is a genetic component to Alzheimer disease as well.
Lyme disease, also known as Lyme borreliosis, is an infectious disease caused by bacteria of the Borrelia type. Not all patients with Lyme disease have all symptoms, and many of the symptoms are not specific to Lyme disease, but can occur with other diseases, as well. The incubation period from infection to the onset of symptoms is usually one to two weeks, but can be much shorter (days), or much longer (months to years).
Dementia is a collective term used to describe the problems that people with various underlying brain disorders or damage can have with their memory, language and thinking. Alzheimer's disease is the best known and most common disorder under the umbrella of dementia. Dementia can also be caused by: 1,2,8. 1  Prion diseases-from certain types of protein, as in CJD (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease) and GSS (Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome). 2  HIV infection-when the problem is simply termed HIV-associated dementia. 3  How the virus damages brain cells is not certain.
Report Abuse. Alzheimer disease is one type of dementia. Dementia is a neurological impairment or disease that can be caused by lots of different things. Memory, cognition, and mood are affected and different types of dementia affect these things differently. Alzheimer disease is, in part, caused by the development of things called neurofibrillary tangles in brain cells that edge out what is otherwise supposed to be there. There is a genetic component to Alzheimer disease as well.
Fast facts on Alzheimer's disease. Here are some key points about Alzheimer's. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Alzheimer's disease is the most common type of dementia. 2  The term dementia describes a loss of mental ability associated with gradual death of brain cells. 3  There are an estimated 5.3 million Americans of all ages with Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is a neurological disorder in which the death of brain cells causes memory loss and cognitive decline. A neurodegenerative type of dementia, the disease starts mild and gets progressively worse.