Overview. The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. The UN system, also known unofficially as the UN family, is made up of the UN itself and many affiliated programmes, funds, and specialized agencies, all with their own membership, leadership, and budget.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop wars between countries and to provide a platform for dialogue. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nati... varnold · 7 years ago. I need to know when the united nations was set up for my homework-its due in tomorrow and I keep getting different answers! Help! Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think that this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think that this question violates the Terms of Service.
At the time of UN's founding, the seat of China in the UN was held by the Republic of China, but as a result of United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758 in 1971, it is now held by the People's Republic of China (see the section Former members: Republic of China) . A Member of the United Nations against which preventive or enforcement action has been taken by the Security Council may be suspended from the exercise of the rights and privileges of membership by the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council.
At its founding, the UN had 51 member states; there are now 193. The headquarters of the United Nations is in Manhattan, New York City, and experiences extraterritoriality. Further main offices are situated in Geneva, Nairobi and Vienna. The text of the Declaration by United Nations was drafted by President Franklin Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and Roosevelt aide Harry Hopkins, while meeting at the White House, 29 December 1941.
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. The text of the Declaration by United Nations was drafted by President Franklin Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and Roosevelt aide Harry Hopkins, while meeting at the White House, 29 December 1941.
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organisation established on 24 October 1945 to promote international cooperation. It replaced the League of Nations and the organisation was created following World War II to prevent another conflict. 
Member States. Each of the 193 Member States of the United Nations is a member of the General Assembly. States are admitted to membership in the UN by a decision of the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council. The UN system, also known unofficially as the UN family, is made up of the UN itself and many affiliated programmes, funds, and specialized agencies, all with their own membership, leadership, and budget.
The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) was set up as the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund in 1946 at the very first session of the General Assembly. 
The United Nations is made up of 192 countries from around the world. It is often called the UN. It was set up in 1945, after the Second World War, as a way of bringing people together and to avoid further wars. It started with 51 countries. The United Kingdom is one of the original members. Germany did not join until 1973.