Valtrex is a popular and effective medication for herpes. It prevents future recurrences, limits the severity of herpes symptoms, and reduces transmission of herpes by blocking herpes shedding. But Valtrex is a pharmaceutical medication, and like most pharmaceutical medications, Valtrex is prone to side effects. Valtrex is not known to have any specific drug interactions. However, due to the risk of renal failure, those taking any drugs that affect kidney function should take extra precaution before starting Valtrex.
A: Valtrex (valacyclovir) is an antiviral drug used to slow the growth and spread of the herpes virus. Valtrex is used to treat infections caused by herpes viruses which include gential herpes, cold sores, shingles, and chickenpox. I cannot diagnosis the white sore in your mouth on your tongue. A: The pharmacologic effects of Valtrex (valacyclovir) vary depending on the indication for use. Valtrex is an antiviral medication indicated for the treatment and control of infections caused by herpes viruses in adults and children, including genital herpes, cold sores, shingles
Valtrex (valacyclovir) is used to treat herpes zoster (shingles) and genital herpes. It does not cure herpes infections but decreases pain and itching, helps sores to heal, and prevents new ones from forming. This medication is sometimes prescribed for other uses; ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. Valtrex (valacyclovir) may cause side effects. Tell your doctor if any of these symptoms are severe or do not go away: 1  headache. 2  upset stomach. 3  vomiting. 4  diarrhea or loose stools. 5  constipation.
Enter Your Email Address. CLICK HERE to learn more about from eMedTV.com. Valtrex ® (valacyclovir hydrochloride) is an antiviral medication that is used to treat certain infections caused by the herpes virus (shingles, cold sores, chickenpox, and genital herpes). As with all medicines, Valtrex has possible side effects. If you are taking Valtrex and sexual side effects occur, your healthcare provider may adjust your dosage of Valtrex or prescribe another medication for your condition.
Valtrex does not prevent the spread of herpes, so take precautions to protect a sex partner. Don’t have sexual contact during an outbreak or if you have symptoms. Be aware herpes can be passed on even when you are symptom-free, so always use effective barrier methods like condoms and dental dams. A: The pharmacologic effects of Valtrex (valacyclovir) vary depending on the indication for use. Valtrex is an antiviral medication indicated for the treatment and control of infections caused by herpes viruses in adults and children, including genital herpes, cold sores, shingles and chickenpox.
Valtrex (valacyclovir) is an antiviral medication used to treat infections with herpes zoster (shingles), herpes simplex genitalis (genital herpes), and herpes labialis (cold sores). Valtrex is available in generic form. It is taken as caplets that may be taken with or without food. Side effects of Valtrex may include headache, dizziness, tired feeling, depression, nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, joint pain, menstrual pain, skin rash, stuffy nose, or sore throat.
1 VALTREX (valacyclovir hydrochloride) may affect other medicines, and other medicines may affect VALTREX (valacyclovir hydrochloride) . 2  It is a good idea to keep a complete list of all the medicines you take. 3  Show this list to your healthcare provider and pharmacist any time you get a new medicine. 
If a person does develop sexual side effects, such as impotence or a decrease in libido, it is difficult to know whether these problems are caused by another condition or by Valtrex itself. If you are taking Valtrex and sexual side effects occur, your healthcare provider may adjust your dosage of Valtrex or prescribe another medication for your condition.
A: Valtrex (valacyclovir) is a medication that is used to treat cold sores, shingles, chickenpox and genital herpes. All of these conditions are caused by the herpes virus and Valtrex works by helping the body fight the infection by preventing the virus from replicating. A: The pharmacologic effects of Valtrex (valacyclovir) vary depending on the indication for use. Valtrex is an antiviral medication indicated for the treatment and control of infections caused by herpes viruses in adults and children, including genital herpes, cold sores, shingles and chickenpox.
Valtrex is the brand name for valacyclovir, an antiviral drug used to treat infections caused by certain types of viruses. In adults, it’s prescribed for shingles (herpes zoster), cold sores around the mouth, and to help lessen the effects of genital herpes. A: The pharmacologic effects of Valtrex (valacyclovir) vary depending on the indication for use. Valtrex is an antiviral medication indicated for the treatment and control of infections caused by herpes viruses in adults and children, including genital herpes, cold sores, shingles and chickenpox.