Spirometry measures airflow. By measuring how much air you exhale, and how quickly, spirometry can evaluate a broad range of lung diseases. In a spirometry test, while you are sitting, you breathe into a mouthpiece that is connected to an instrument called a spirometer. Pulmonary function tests are a group of tests that measure how well the lungs take in and release air and how well they move gases such as oxygen from the atmosphere into the body's circulation.
Lung Capacity Test. The lung capacity test will need to be done with either a simple Spirometry lung function test. It measures how much and how quickly you can move air out of your lungs.This test will often be performed by either a Doctor or fitness professional. Once you have a reading, use the charts to gauge your performance. Aim to repeat the test three times, and use your best score. Lung volume is the total amount of air that you can breathe out after taking a deep breathe in. Lung volume usually depends on your age, sex and height-being largest at around 20-25 years
The results of the experiment were that 7th grade male s lung capacity was higher than 7th grade female s. Comparing the results for FEV1, which is the maximum exhalation force in one second, the average for males is 2.99 liters, and the average for females is only 2.39 liters. There is no definite average for lung capacity. This is because the lung capacity of a person is dependant on many different variables. These variables include size of lungs, weight, height, race, gender, and certain medical and physical conditions.
Lung function tests check how well your lungs work. The tests can find lung problems, measure how serious they are, and check to see how well treatment for a lung disease is working. The tests look at: 1  How much air your lungs can hold. 2  How quickly you can move air in and out of your lungs. Gas diffusion tests include: 1  Arterial blood gases. 2  This test shows the amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide in your bloodstream. 3  Carbon monoxide diffusion capacity (also called DLCO). 4  This test measures how well your lungs transfer a small amount of carbon monoxide (CO) into the blood.
Lung function tests are usually done in special exam rooms that have all of the lung function measuring devices. The test is usually done by a specially trained respiratory therapist or technician. For most of the lung function tests, you will wear a nose clip to make sure that no air passes in or out of your nose during the test. You then will be asked to breathe into a mouthpiece connected to a recording device. 
Lung function tests, also called pulmonary (PULL-mun-ary) function tests, measure how well your lungs work. These tests are used to look for the cause of breathing problems, such as shortness of breath. Lung function tests measure: 1  How much air you can take into your lungs. 2  How much air you can blow out of your lungs and how fast you can do it. 3  How well your lungs deliver oxygen to your blood. 4  The strength of your breathing muscles. Lung function tests include breathing tests and tests that measure the oxygen level in your blood. The breathing tests most often used are: 1  Spirometry (spi-ROM-eh-tre). 2  This test measures how much air you can breathe in and out.
Measuring Lung Capacity. The amount of air that you move in and out of your lungs while breathing normally is called TIDAL VOLUME. This amount of air provides enough oxygen for a person who is resting. It is possible to inhale and exhale more forcefully-the maximum amount of air moved in and out of the lungs is called the VITAL CAPACITY. 
Doing a spirometry. Spirometry (meaning the measuring of breath) is the most common of the pulmonary function tests (PFTs), measuring lung function, specifically the amount (volume) and/or speed (flow) of air that can be inhaled and exhaled. 
A great deal can be learned about the mechanical properties of the lungs from measurements of forced maximal expiration and inspiration. The spirometer (developed in 1846 by Hutchinson) is used to measure ventilatory function (dynamic lung volumes and maximal flow rates). 
Lung volumes are directly measured; Lung capacities are inferred from lung volumes. The average total lung capacity of an adult human male is about 6 litres of air, but only a small amount of this capacity is used during normal breathing. Tidal breathing is normal, resting breathing; the tidal volume is the volume of air that is inhaled or exhaled in only a single such breath