Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. This region is known as the hypervariable region. Each of these variants can bind to a different antigen. This enormous diversity of antibody paratopes on the antigen-binding fragments allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens.
antibody. any of various proteins produced in the blood in response to the presence of an antigen. By becoming attached to antigens on infectious organisms antibodies can render them harmless or cause them to be destroyed. antibody. (immunology). A protein, found principally in blood serum, originating either normally or in response to an antigen and characterized by a specific reactivity with its complementary antigen. Also known as immune body.
The more similar a vaccine is to the disease-causing form of the organism, the better the immune response to the vaccine. The immune response to a live attenuated vaccine is virtually identical to that produced by a natural infection. 
antibody. (immunology). A protein, found principally in blood serum, originating either normally or in response to an antigen and characterized by a specific reactivity with its complementary antigen. Also known as immune body. 
Reference Range. Anti-Ro antibodies, also known as anti-SSA antibodies, are associated with Sjoegren sjögren. Syndrome the reference range of-Anti ro antibodies is. negative Anti-Ro/SSA and/or anti-La/SSB antibodies. At this time, no conclusive evidence indicates that any single laboratory technique provides superior sensitivities or specificities.
antigen-antibody reaction, a process of the immune system in which immunoglobulin-coated B cells recognize a specific antigen and stimulate antibody production. T cells also play an essential role in the reaction. An antigen-antibody reaction begins with the binding of antigens to antibodies to form antigen-antibody complexes. T-dependent antigen one that requires the presence of helper T cells to stimulate antibody production by B cells; most antigens are T-dependent. T-independent antigen an antigen that can trigger B lymphocytes to produce antibodies without the participation of T lymphocytes. See also T-dependent antigen.
Reference Range. Anti-Ro antibodies, also known as anti-SSA antibodies, are associated with Sjoegren sjögren. Syndrome the reference range of-Anti ro antibodies is. Negative. next Anti-Ro/SSA and/or anti-La/SSB antibodies. At this time, no conclusive evidence indicates that any single laboratory technique provides superior sensitivities or specificities.
Antibody and antigen. Photo by: cglightNing. Antibodies, also called immunoglobulins, are proteins manufactured by the body that help fight against foreign substances called antigens. When an antigen enters the body, it stimulates the immune system to produce antibodies. 
What does antibodies do? Antibodies (also known as immunoglobulins, abbreviated Ig) are gamma globulin proteins that are found in blood or other bodily fluids of vertebrates, and are used by the immun … e system to identify and neutralize foreign objects, such as bacteria and viruses. 