DTaP is approved for children under age 7. Tdap, which has a reduced dose of the diphtheria and pertussis vaccines, is approved for adolescents starting at age 11 and adults ages 19 to 64. It is often called a booster dose because it boosts the immunity that wanes from vaccines given at ages 4 to 6. In this article. DTaP is a vaccine that helps children younger than age 7 develop immunity to three deadly diseases caused by bacteria: diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough (pertussis). Tdap is a booster immunization given at age 11 that offers continued protection from those diseases for adolescents and adults.
DPT (also DTP and DTwP) refers to a class of combination vaccines against three infectious diseases in humans: diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), and tetanus. The vaccine components include diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and killed whole cells of the organism that causes pertussis (wP). The Tdap vaccine is currently recommended by the CDC and covers tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (CDC Vaccines, 2013).
Now we see about 10,000 to 40,000 cases reported each year and unfortunately up to 20 deaths. Pertussis vaccines are recommended for people of all ages. Babies and children should get 5 doses of DTaP for maximum protection. A dose is given at 2, 4 and 6 months, at 15 through 18 months, and again at 4 through 6 years. A booster dose of Tdap is given to preteens at 11 or 12 years old. 
DTaP is not licensed for adolescents, adults, or children 7 years of age and older. But older people still need protection. A vaccine called Tdap is similar to DTaP. A single dose of Tdap is recommended for people 11 through 64 years of age. Another vaccine, called Td, protects against tetanus and diphtheria, but not pertussis. It is recommended every 10 years. There are separate Vaccine Information Statements for these vaccines. 
DTaP and Tdap refer to similar combination vaccines in which the component with lower case 'a' is acellular. Also available is the DT or TD vaccine, which lacks the pertussis component. The Tdap vaccine is currently recommended by the CDC and covers tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (CDC Vaccines, 2013).
The current recommendation is that one dose of the Tdap vaccine be substituted for one dose of the Td vaccine between the ages of 11 and 64. Pregnant women are also advised to get the Tdap vaccine, preferably between 27 and 36 weeks' gestation. In this article. DTaP is a vaccine that helps children younger than age 7 develop immunity to three deadly diseases caused by bacteria: diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough (pertussis). Tdap is a booster immunization given at age 11 that offers continued protection from those diseases for adolescents and adults.
DTaP produces fewer side effects and is a safer version of an older vaccine called DTP, which is no longer used in the United States. Tdap vaccine is licensed for people 10 years through 64 years of age. Tdap contains a lower concentration of diphtheria and pertussis toxoids than DTaP. Tdap is given at 11-12 years. Adolescents and adults who have not yet received it should get a one time dose of Tdap at the time of their next tetanus booster. DTaP / Tdap / DTP / Td Are you confused about what vaccine you or your child needs? Diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis are all diseases caused by bacteria. All three can cause severe illness and death. Diphtheria and pertussis are spread from person to person.
DTaP (also DTPa and TDaP) is a combined vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis, in which the component with lower case 'a' is acellular. This is in contrast to whole-cell, inactivated DTP (aka DTwP). The acellular vaccine uses selected antigens of the pertussis pathogen to induce immunity. The Tdap vaccine is currently recommended by the CDC and covers tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (CDC Vaccines, 2013).
An adult vaccine Tdap (Adacel) came out in 2004 that contains tetanus, diptheria, and pertusis. If you are an adult or adolescence you should receive this now (everyone should get as a one time replacement for the Td vaccine that is given every 10 years). 
DTaP is not licensed for adolescents, adults, or children 7 years of age and older. But older people still need protection. A vaccine called Tdap is similar to DTaP. A single dose of Tdap is recommended for people 11 through 64 years of age. Another vaccine, called Td, protects against tetanus and diphtheria, but not pertussis. It is recommended every 10 years. There are separate Vaccine Information Statements for these vaccines. Diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis are serious diseases caused by bacteria. Diphtheria and pertussis are spread from person to person. Tetanus enters the body through cuts or wounds. DIPHTHERIA causes a thick covering in the back of the throat. 1  It can lead to breathing problems, paralysis, heart failure, and even death.