This song is about a guy who loved a girl, but he finds out that she never loved him back, hence: I'll still try and find my place in the diary of Jane. (thanks, Aaron-Pittsburgh, PA). The band did three versions of this song. The first version is pretty much the song as you probably know it. I'm not sure it's that simple...In the video-clip of the song, there is a woman (Jane) that dies and becomes a ghost.In the end of the clip, the singer, Benjamin, puts a rose and a diary on a tombstone.In the official video you can see the name Jane written on the tombstone, but you can barely see the last name.
Something's getting in the way. Something's just about to break. I will try to find my place in the diary of Jane.. We are getting close to a solution; something is going to happen to determine this one way or another. I don't believe that the Diary of Jane in any way refers to an actual Diary, regardless if the video showed it or not. I believe that whole statement meens something to the nature of finding his place within her life, what he really meant to her.
Diary of Jane-This song is about a guy who loved a girl, but he finds out that she never loved him back, hence: I'll still try and find my place in the diary of Jane.. Source(s): http://www.songfacts.com. friggenhell2008 · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Confidence votes 156. Diary of Jane is about a guy trying to get a girl's attention (find my place in the diary of Jane). He's trying to fiugre out how to do it, (find out what makes you tick), and it's consuming him (soaring sick). He keeps thinking next time will be the time (something's just about to break). Diary of Jane is about a guy trying to get a girl's attention (find my place in the diary of Jane). He's trying to fiugre out how to do it, (find out what makes you tick), and it's consuming him (soaring sic
I will try to find my place in the diary of Jane. So tell me how it should be. This confuses me more than most this song. I don't believe that the Diary of Jane in any way refers to an actual Diary, regardless if the video showed it or not. I believe that whole statement meens something to the nature of finding his place within her life, what he really meant to her.
The Diary of Jane is a song by American rock band Breaking Benjamin. It was released as the first single from their third album, Phobia. The song is one of their most notable and successful, it is the fastest added single ever in the history of Hollywood Records. 
As I look the other way. I still try to find my place. In the Diary of Jane. ((all in all. Even though this whole experience has killed him.. he's still willing to do whatever and be whatever for this girl.)). suicidalxromance09 on June 29, 2007 Link. 7 Replies Log in to reply. There was an error. In the Diary of Jane. So tell me how it should be. ((Now this is where it shifts. as I burn another page, As i look the other way refers to the fact that he's given up plenty of times..