The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. 
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion.
1 Each muscle fibre ( muscle cell ) is covered by a plasma membrane sheath which is called the sarcolemma. 2  Tunnel-like extensions from the sarcolemma pass through the muscle fibre from one side of it to the other in transverse sections through the diameter of the fibre. More about the contents of cells generally, is available on the page about animal cells. The components of skeletal muscle cells that are specific to muscle tissue are myofibrils. 1  Each muscle fibre ( muscle cell ) is covered by a plasma membrane sheath which is called the sarcolemma.
A muscle is a bundle of many cells called fibers. You can think of muscle fibers as long cylinders, and compared to other cells in your body, muscle fibers are quite big. They are from about 1 to 40 microns long and 10 to 100 microns in diameter. 
Each skeletal muscle fiber is a single cylindrical muscle cell. An individual skeletal muscle may be made up of hundreds, or even thousands, of muscle fibers bundled together and wrapped in a connective tissue covering. Each muscle is surrounded by a connective tissue sheath called the epimysium.
A group of muscle cells are bundled together by collagen to form a fascicle. Since muscle cells are elongated and cylindrical, each muscle cell is usually called a muscle fiber. In skeletal muscle, the muscle fibers are very large, multinucleated, and up to several millimeters in length. 
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. There are various specialized forms of myocytes: cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle cells, with various properties. The striated cells of cardiac and skeletal muscles are referred to as muscle fibers. 
Skeletal muscles consist of 100,000s of muscle cells (also known as muscle fibers) that perform the functions of the specific muscle of which they are a part. More about the contents of cells generally, is available on the page about animal cells. The components of skeletal muscle cells that are specific to muscle tissue are myofibrils. 1  Each muscle fibre ( muscle cell ) is covered by a plasma membrane sheath which is called the sarcolemma.
Skeletal muscle structure. Different types of muscle tissue. An organism's muscle tissue is composed of muscle cells. Multi-unit smooth muscle cells operate independently and single-unit, or visceral, smooth muscle cells operate together as a unit. Muscle mass can be gained artificially from injections of performance-enhancing drugs and hormones.