The loss of motor neurons leads to progressive muscle weakness and muscle wasting (atrophy) in muscles closest to the trunk of the body (proximal muscles) such as the shoulders, hips and back. Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a group of inherited disorders characterized by a loss of certain nerve cells in the spinal cord called motor neurons or anterior horn cells.
ALS is a progressive, degenerative disease of the nervous system. It is one of a group of diseases, called motor neuron diseases (MND), in which specialized nerve cells that control movement of the voluntary muscles gradually cease functioning and die. 1 Fasciculation is a sign of muscle irritability, as the normal action of the lower motor neuron on the muscle is impaired. 2  The sole involvement of lower motor neurons can be seen in a form of ALS called progressive muscular atrophy.
What is spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy? Spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy (SMA-PME) is a neurological condition that causes muscle weakness and wasting (atrophy) and a combination of seizures and uncontrollable muscle jerks (myoclonic epilepsy). 
Primary lateral sclerosis is a disease of the upper motor neurons, while progressive muscular atrophy affects only lower motor neurons in the spinal cord. In progressive bulbar palsy, the lowest motor neurons of the brain stem are most affected, causing slurred speech and difficulty chewing and swallowing. 
Progressive bulbar palsy is a motor neuron disorder that involves the lower motor neurons. These neurons conduct messages from the brain stem and spinal cord to the brain. Initially, patients with progressive bulbar palsy only have muscle weakness that affects speech and swallowing. 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), commonly called Lou Gehrig's disease, is a progressive neuromuscular condition characterized by weakness, muscle wasting, fasciculations and increased reflexes. Approximately 30,000 Americans currently have the disease. The annual incidence rate is one to two cases per 100,000. 
In about 25% of cases, ALS begins with brainstem symptoms (dysarthria, difficulty swallowing) followed by extremity weakness. This variant is called progressive bulbar palsy and has a worse prognosis. Some ALS patients have only lower motor neuron involvement (progressive muscular atrophy). Degeneration may also infrequently involve sensory tracts. Spinal Spinal Muscular atrophy (SMA) is a genetic disorder that causes degeneration and loss of spinal and brain stem motor neurons (lower motor neurons) resulting in progressive muscle weakness.