Biography. Prince is one of the most naturally gifted artists of all time, and also one of the most mysterious. In the Eighties, at a time when other megastars such as Michael Jackson, Bruce Springsteen, and Madonna, were delivering an album every three years or so, Prince remained prolific to an almost inhuman degree. Under the name Prince Rogers, Prince's father John Nelson was the leader of a Minneapolis-area jazz band, in which his mother was the vocalist.
Purple Rain (song).  Purple Rain  is a song by Prince and The Revolution. It is the title track from the 1984 album of the same name, which in turn is the soundtrack album for the 1984 film of the same name, and was released as the third single from that album. The song is a combination of rock, pop, gospel, and orchestral music. The song was recorded during a benefit concert for the Minnesota Dance Theatre at the First Avenue nightclub in Minneapolis on August 3, 1983.
The song is a staple of Prince's live performances. He has played it on nearly every tour since 1984, except for a period after his name change when he avoided his older hits for a few years. The song was recorded during a benefit concert for the Minnesota Dance Theatre at the First Avenue nightclub in Minneapolis on August 3, 1983.
The album featured Prince's new band, The Revolution. In 1984 Prince would release what would be seen as an admired and profound masterpiece the feature film/sound-track album, Purple Rain in 1984. Prince's father, John L. Nelson would contribute to this album, by cowriting the chord sequence for a couple of his songs. Prince Rogers Nelson was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Mattie Della (Shaw), a jazz singer, and John L. Nelson, a lyricist and pianist. His parents were both from African-American families from the U.S. south. They separated during his youth, which lead him to move back and forth.
In 1975, Pepe Willie, the husband of Prince's cousin, Shauntel, formed the band 94 East with Marcy Ingvoldstad and Kristie Lazenberry. Willie hired Andre André cymone And prince to record tracks with 94. East those songs were written By willie And prince contributed guitar. tracks Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of Mattie Della (Shaw) and John Lewis Nelson. His parents were both African-American and his family ancestry is centered in Louisiana, with all four of his grandparents hailing from the state.
Prince wrote Manic Monday in 1984, and recorded it as a duet for the band Apollonia 6 's self-titled album; however, he eventually pulled the song. Two years later, he offered the single to The Bangles under the pseudonym Christopher, a character he played in the 1986 film Under the Cherry Moon. Manic Monday has been covered by several artists. The Chipettes covered the song for the 1986 Alvin and the Chipmunks episode Sweet Smell of Success. A cover by Japanese rock band Missile Innovation was included on their self-titled mini-album, released on July 27, 2005.
Prince's father was a pianist and songwriter and his mother was a jazz singer. Prince was named after his father, whose stage name was Prince Rogers, and who performed with a jazz group called the Prince Rogers Trio. In a 1991 interview with A Current Affair, Prince's father said that I named my son Prince because I wanted him to do everything I wanted to do. Prince was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the son of Mattie Della (Shaw) and John Lewis Nelson. His parents were both African-American and his family ancestry is centered in Louisiana, with all four of his grandparents hailing from the state.
Manic Monday  is a song by the American pop rock band The Bangles, and the first single released from their second studio album, Different Light (1986). It was written by American musician Prince, using the pseudonym Christopher. Originally intended for the group Apollonia 6 in 1984, he offered the song to The Bangles two years later. Lyrically, it describes a woman who is waking up on Monday, wishing it were still Sunday. Manic Monday has been covered by several artists. The Chipettes covered the song for the 1986 Alvin and the Chipmunks episode Sweet Smell of Success. A cover by Japanese rock band Missile Innovation was included on their self-titled mini-album, released on July 27, 2005.
The basic tracks for three songs were used on the Purple Rain soundtrack: Purple Rain,  I Would Die 4 U , and  Baby I'm a Star . Prince performed overdubs and re-recorded the vocals while working at Sunset Sound in Los Angeles from August–September 1983. The song was recorded during a benefit concert for the Minnesota Dance Theatre at the First Avenue nightclub in Minneapolis on August 3, 1983.