Peripheral Vascular Disease Overview. Peripheral vascular disease, also called PVD, refers to any disease or disorder of the circulatory system outside of the brain and heart. The term can include any disorder that affects any blood vessels. It is, though, often used as a synonym for peripheral artery disease. PVD is the most common disease of the arteries. The build-up of fatty material inside the vessels, a condition called atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries, is what causes it.
1 Peripheral artery disease is due to atherosclerosis. 2  This is a gradual process in which a fatty material builds up inside the arteries. 3  The fatty material mixes with calcium, scar tissues, and other substances and hardens slightly, forming plaques of arteriosclerosis. 
The most common signs and symptoms associated with peripheral artery disease include: The most common cause of peripheral vascular disease is atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a gradual process in which a fatty material-plaque-builds up inside the arteries. Patients with peripheral artery disease most commonly have symptoms in their legs. Experts say that this disease is often a sign of excess accumulation of fatty deposits in the arteries-atherosclerosis. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States.
Peripheral artery disease (PAD) refers to diseases of the blood vessels located outside the heart and brain. Peripheral artery disease is also known as peripheral arterial disease, peripheral vascular disease or peripheral heart disease. Patients with peripheral artery disease most commonly have symptoms in their legs. Experts say that this disease is often a sign of excess accumulation of fatty deposits in the arteries-atherosclerosis. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States.
Peripheral artery disease (PAD), also known as peripheral vascular disease (PVD), peripheral artery occlusive disease, and peripheral obliterative arteriopathy, is a narrowing of the arteries other than those that supply the heart or the brain. Peripheral artery disease most commonly affects the legs, but other arteries may also be involved.
Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD). Peripheral arterial disease is a disease in which plaque builds up in the arteries that carry blood to your head, organs, and limbs. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, fibrous tissue, and other substances in the blood. PubMed Health Glossary. Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Blood Cholesterol. A type of fat produced by the liver and found in the blood. Cholesterol is also found in some foods.
The most common cause of peripheral arterial disease (P.A.D.) is atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up in your arteries. The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known. The disease may start if certain factors damage the inner layers of the arteries. These factors include: 1  Smoking. 2  High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood. 3  High blood pressure
It usually happens because your arteries harden and narrow. (That's called atherosclerosis). Smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and not being active are the main causes. If you have diabetes, you're more likely to get a worse case of peripheral artery disease that improves less with treatment. 
Causes of Peripheral Vascular Disease. The most common cause of PVD is peripheral artery disease, which is due to atherosclerosis. Fatty material builds up inside the arteries and mixes with calcium, scar tissue, and other substances. The mixture hardens slightly, forming plaques. These plaques block, narrow, or weaken the artery walls. It is, though, often used as a synonym for peripheral artery disease. PVD is the most common disease of the arteries. The build-up of fatty material inside the vessels, a condition called atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries, is what causes it.
Peripheral arterial disease (P.A.D.) is a disease in which plaque (plak) builds up in the arteries that carry blood to your head, organs, and limbs. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, fibrous tissue, and other substances in the blood. 