Endowment Mortgages. UK Endowment mortgages are effectively an interest only mortgage with an additional savings plan in the form of an endowment policy. Monthly contributions are made to a Life Insurance Company who invest your money in the savings plan,known as an endowment
Endowment loans offer many incentives for borrowers, however, they can be riskier than traditional mortgages. When repaying an endowment loan, borrowers have a lower monthly payment, since no principal is being repaid. During good economic conditions, contributing to the endowment fund allows the borrower to earn interest on money that would have been repaid as principal. A type of mortgage in which the borrower makes only interest payments on the mortgage, while payments that would have gone to repay the principal are instead funneled into an endowment fund. Under an endowment loan, the borrower does not repay the principal until the mortgage expires
Endowment policy mortgages are known as a type of interest-only loan. With a normal type of mortgage which consists of capital and interest, each monthly repayment you make goes toward repaying part of the capital originally borrowed plus the interest due for that period. Consequently this goes to ensure both capital and interest are repaid during the mortgage term.
How they work. With an endowment mortgage, you do not repay any of the capital you borrow during the term of the loan. Instead, the endowment policy should grow to produce a lump sum large enough to repay the loan in full at the end of the pre-agreed period, normally 25 years. 
DEFINITION of 'Endowment Loan'. A type of mortgage in which the borrower makes only interest payments on the mortgage, while payments that would have gone to repay the principal are instead funneled into an endowment fund. Under an endowment loan, the borrower does not repay the principal until the mortgage expires
An endowment mortgage is a mortgage loan arranged on an interest-only basis where the capital is intended to be repaid by one or more (usually Low-Cost) endowment policies. The phrase endowment mortgage is used mainly in the United Kingdom by lenders and consumers to refer to this arrangement and is not a legal term. The borrower has two separate agreements. One with the lender for the mortgage and one with the insurer for the endowment policy. The arrangements are distinct and the borrower can change either arrangement if they wish. In the past the endowment policy was often taken as an additional security by the lender.
An Endowment Mortgage is a type of interest-only loan. With a repayment mortgage (also known as a capital and interest loan) each monthly payment includes part of the capital the original amount you borrowed as well as the interest owed for that period. This ensures everything is paid off at the end of the mortgage term. With an interest-only mortgage, you are repaying just the interest and need some other way of clearing the remaining debt. that’s where the endowment part of this package comes in.