For IT Senior Project Managers, more experience in the field does not usually mean bigger paychecks. Whereas the median salary for inexperienced employees is approximately $91K, incomes in the five-to-10 year group are significantly higher, averaging to the comfortable six-figure sum of $106K. Surpassing the national average by 20 percent, IT Senior Project Managers in San Francisco receive some of the highest pay in the country. IT Senior Project Managers will also find cushy salaries in New York (+17 percent), Boston (+13 percent), Washington (+13 percent), and Los Angeles (+12 percent).
$91,000. Average Senior Program Manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 58% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
The average pay for a Senior Program Manager, IT is $127,210 per year. Most people in this job have more than five years' experience in related jobs. Read More... The senior program manager in information technology (IT) is responsible for overseeing technological-development projects and the management of IT teams.
Senior IT Manager Salary. Senior IT Manager average salary is $117,971, median salary is $117,555 with a salary range from $59,842 to $181,648. Senior IT Manager salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Senior IT Manager salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Senior IT Manager salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Salary Outlook. IT managers earned a median of $123,950 in 2013, or about $59.59 per hour, according to BLS data. The best-paid earned more than $187,199, while the lowest-paid brought home a still-respectable $76,420 in 2013. The highest paid in the it manager profession work in the metropolitan areas of Oakland, California, San Francisco, and San Jose, California.
The average salary for senior project manager jobs is $72,000. Average senior project manager salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term senior project manager anywhere in the job listing.
Senior Project Manager, IT Salary. (United States). Compared to the national salary average for IT Senior Project Managers, those in the same line of work who choose to work for Capgemini enjoy much larger paychecks — $163K on average versus $106K per year. Surpassing the national average by 20 percent, IT Senior Project Managers in San Francisco receive some of the highest pay in the country. IT Senior Project Managers will also find cushy salaries in New York (+17 percent), Boston (+13 percent), Washington (+13 percent), and Los Angeles (+12 percent).
How much does a senior project manager make? Well to determine a senior project manager's pay you need to first decide what kind of a senior project manager you are talking about. We have information on several senior project manager jobs each with different pay ranges. Please select a specific senior project manager job from the list below or search senior project manager salaries. 