There are around 1,000 species in this class of fish. The species in this class have a flexible skeleton made of cartilage instead of bone. Cartilage is the flexible substance found that gives human noses and ears their shape! Only their teeth, and sometimes their vertebrae, have calcium in them! Species in this class have paired fins, hard scales, a two-chambered heart, and a pair of nostrils. Most species have 5-7 gill slits on each side of their body. Some species produce egg cases, others give birth to live young.
Chondrichthyes. A class of vertebrates comprising the cartilaginous, jawed fishes. The Chondrichthyes have traditionally included the subclasses Elasmobranchii (sharks, skates, and rays) and Holocephali (ratfishes). A classification scheme for the Chondrichthyes follows. Chondrichthyes. a class of fishes that includes two subclasses: Elasmobranchii and Holocephali. The fish have a cartilaginous skeleton fortified by calcification. The scales are placoid. There is a spiral valve in the intestine and an arterial cone in the heart.
By Laura Klappenbach. Cartilaginous fishes (Chondrichthyes) are a group of vertebrates that includes sharks, rays, skates and chimaeras. Cartilaginous fishes have a skeleton that consists of cartilage (in contrast to their cousins the bony fish, whose skeletons are made up of true bone).
Cartilaginous fishes (Class Chondrichthyes, from Greek chondros, cartilage, and ichthos, fish) are a class of aquatic, gill-breathing, finned vertebrates (animals with a vertebral column or `backbone'), equivalent to the bony fishes (Class Osteichthyes: osteos, bone, and ichthos, fish). 
Chondrichthyes share many common characteristics among each other; their main defining feature is having a cartilaginous skeleton. Other features found in Chondricthyes include similar coloration patterns, placoid scales, pectoral fins, and ampullae of lorenzini. 
Sharks, skates, rays, and even stranger fish make up the Chondrichthyes, or cartilaginous fish.. First appearing on Earth almost 450 million years ago, cartilaginous fish today include both fearsome predators and harmless mollusc-eaters (harmless, that is, unless you are a mollusc). Members of the Chondrichthyes all lack true bone and have a skeleton made of cartilage (the flexible material you can feel in your nose and ears). Only their teeth, and sometimes their vertebrae, are calcified; this calcified cartilage has a different structure from that of true bone.
Chondrichthyes. A class of vertebrates comprising the cartilaginous, jawed fishes. The Chondrichthyes have traditionally included the subclasses Elasmobranchii (sharks, skates, and rays) and Holocephali (ratfishes). A classification scheme for the Chondrichthyes follows. Chondrichthyes. a class of fishes that includes two subclasses: Elasmobranchii and Holocephali. The fish have a cartilaginous skeleton fortified by calcification. The scales are placoid. There is a spiral valve in the intestine and an arterial cone in the heart. Many Chondrichthyes have a cloaca.
Chondrichthyes (/kɒnˈdrɪkθɨ.iːz/ ; from Greek χονδρ- chondr- 'cartilage', ἰχθύς ichthys 'fish') is a class that contains the cartilaginous fishes: they are jawed vertebrates with paired fins, paired nares, scales, a heart with its chambers in series, and skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone. The skeleton is cartilaginous. The notochord, which is present in the young, is gradually replaced by cartilage. Chondrichthyes also lack ribs, so if they leave water, the larger species' own body weight would crush their internal organs long before they would suffocate.
149 pages on this wiki. Chondrichthyes or cartilaginous fishes are jawed fish with paired fins, paired nostrils, scales, two-chambered hearts, and skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone. 