antihistamine. Antihistaminic Pharmacology An agent that counteracts the effects of histamine released during allergic reactions by blocking histamine–H 1 receptors Adverse effects Dry mouth, drowsiness, urine retention in ♂, tachycardia. While the term antihistamine can broadly include any agent that blocks any histamine receptor, in practice it is usually used to denote those blocking the H 1 type of receptors (H1 receptor antagonists), those involved in allergic reactions.
An antihistamine is a type of pharmaceutical drug that opposes the activity of histamine receptors in the body. Antihistamines are subclassified according to the histamine receptor that they act upon: the two largest classes of antihistamines are H1-antihistamines and H2-antihistamines. An H3-antihistamine is a classification of drugs used to inhibit the action of histamine at the H3 receptor. H 3 receptors are primarily found in the brain and are inhibitory autoreceptors located on histaminergic nerve terminals, which modulate the release of histamine.
• ANTIHISTAMINE (noun). The noun ANTIHISTAMINE has 1 sense: 1. a medicine used to treat allergies and hypersensitive reactions and colds; works by counteracting the effects of histamine on a receptor site. Familiarity information: ANTIHISTAMINE used as a noun is very rare. Benadryl; diphenhydramine (antihistamine (trade name Benadryl) used to treat allergic reactions involving the nasal passages (hay fever) and also to treat motion sickness). Dimetapp (trade name for a drug containing an antihistamine and a decongestant; used to relieve nasal congestion and to treat rhinitis).
Antihistamines are used to relieve the symptoms of allergic reactions, especially hay fever and other allergic disorders of the nasal passages. Some antihistamines have an antinauseant action that is useful in the relief of motion sickness. Others have a sedative and hypnotic action and may be used as tranquilizers. While the term antihistamine can broadly include any agent that blocks any histamine receptor, in practice it is usually used to denote those blocking the H 1 type of receptors (H1 receptor antagonists), those involved in allergic reactions.
antihistamine. a drug that counteracts the effects of histamine, a normal body chemical that among its actions is believed to cause the symptoms of persons who are hypersensitive to various allergens. While the term antihistamine can broadly include any agent that blocks any histamine receptor, in practice it is usually used to denote those blocking the H 1 type of receptors (H1 receptor antagonists), those involved in allergic reactions.
Antihistamine. An H1 antagonist is a histamine antagonist of the H1 receptor that serves to reduce or eliminate effects mediated by histamine, an endogenous chemical mediator released during allergic reactions. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: antihistamine (Noun). A drug or substance that counteracts the effects of a histamine. Commonly used to alleviate the symptoms of hay fever and other allergies.
Antihistamines: Drugs that combat the histamine released during an allergic reaction by blocking the action of the histamine on the tissue. Antihistamines do not stop the formation of histamine nor do they stop the conflict between the IgE and antigen. 