Autolyzed yeast extract results from the breakdown of yeast cells. The cell wall gets disrupted as the yeast’s enzymes break down proteins, releasing amino acids, salts and carbohydrates. The soluble portions are separated from the insoluble components and referred to as autolyzed yeast extract. If you follow a gluten-free diet you'll need to avoid autolyzed yeast extract because it's a source of hidden gluten, according to Colorado State University. Another possible concern about consuming autolyzed yeast extract is that it naturally contains monosodium glutamate.
Brewer's Yeast Extract or Autolyzed Yeast. Brewer's yeast is obtained from the unicellular fungus. There are two kind of yeast extract or autolyzed yeast, one is made from baker's yeast which is a Halal ingredient used in soups, frozen fish products to provide meaty flavor. The other kind is made from brewer yeast obtained from beer making. 
My current recommendation when either yeast extract or autolyzed yeast extract is listed as an ingredient in foods NOT labeled gluten-free is to contact the manufacturer and ask whether spent yeast from beer manufacturing is the source. Here’s why…. 
Sliced deli meats and cheeses on a board. Photo Credit Lawkeeper/iStock/Getty Images. Autolyzed yeast extract is a substance that results when yeast is broken down into its constituent components. It naturally contains free glutamic acid, or monosodium glutamate, and is often used as a less expensive substitute for MSG. If you follow a gluten-free diet you'll need to avoid autolyzed yeast extract because it's a source of hidden gluten, according to Colorado State University. Another possible concern about consuming autolyzed yeast extract is that it naturally contains monosodium glutamate.
Autolyzed yeast (containing the cell walls) or autolyzed yeast extract consists of concentrations of yeast cells that are allowed to die and break up, so that the yeasts’ endogenous digestive enzymes break their proteins down into simpler compounds (amino acids and peptides). Viscous yeast extract. Yeast extract is the common name for various forms of processed yeast products made by extracting the cell contents (removing the cell walls); they are used as food additives or flavourings, or as nutrients for bacterial culture media.
General description. Yeast extract is the water-soluble portion of autolyzed yeast, often used in culture media. Yeast extract contains a mixture of amino acids, peptides, water soluble vitamins and carbohydrates. Description. Yeast extract is the water-soluble portion of autolyzed yeast, often used in culture media. Yeast extract contains a mixture of amino acids, peptides, water soluble vitamins and carbohydrates.