Being with someone who has chickenpox or shingles does NOT cause shingles. Although shingles is not very contagious, direct contact with the rash of someone who has shingles can cause chickenpox in a person who has never had chickenpox. 
The virus stays in your body, and can cause shingles many years later. You can’t catch shingles from another person with shingles. However, a person who has never had chickenpox (or chickenpox vaccine) could get chickenpox from someone with shingles. This is not very common. Shingles is far more common in people 50 years of age and older than in younger people. 
If you have shingles, you can give another person chickenpox if they haven't had it already. So, if your husband has not had chickenpox yet, you could give him chickenpox, but not shingles. You will be contagious for about a week after the rash appears. If you have shingles, chickenpox is usually transmitted through contact with the open blisters of the rash. The best thing to do is keep your rash covered up so no one will have direct contact with it, and so you won't touch it and then touch someone else.
A person with shingles cannot give shingles to someone else. However, a person with shingles can transmit Varicella zoster to a person who is not immune to the virus. In that case, the person would develop chickenpox, not shingles. 
But after the virus becomes active again, it can only cause shingles, not chickenpox. You can't catch shingles from someone else who has shingles. But there is a small chance that a person with a shingles rash can spread the virus to another person who hasn't had chickenpox and who hasn't gotten the chickenpox vaccine. Shingles symptoms happen in stages. 
A person can not get shingles from a person that has it. However, the virus that causes chickenpox and shingles can be spread from a person with active shingles to a person who has never had chickenpox or been vaccinated through direct contact with the rash. The person exposed would develop chickenpox, not shingles. 
You can only get shingles if you have had chickenpox. But if someone has shingles, then the watery stuff from the blisters can give someone else chicken pox if that person hasn't had it. You can't catch the shingles virus through the air when someone coughs or sneezes like you can with chickenpox. 
Shingles is most common in people over the age of 50, but anyone who has had chicken pox can get it. A person with shingles can transmit the chickenpox virus to anyone who has not had chickenpox or the varicella vaccination. You can't catch shingles from someone else, though. Shingles Symptoms: Symptoms include: 1  Pain along the nerve where the virus resides. 2  Itching, burning, and weakness in nearby muscles. 
The herpes varicella-zoster virus that causes chickenpox retreats to nerves located near the spine, where the virus remains dormant until it re-emerges as shingles, often during a period of stress or weakened immunity. You cannot give shingles to someone else, and you cannot catch shingles from someone with shingles. However, if you have an attack of shingles, you can give someone chickenpox if that person makes direct contact with the sores and has never been exposed to chickenpox. 
Yes, it is possible for someone to get chickenpox from a person who has shingles, but it's not easy. You can only get chickenpox from someone with shingles if you come in dire … ct skin-to-skin contact with wet or weeping lesions. Once the lesions are crusted over, you can't get it. No, you can not get shingles from someone with chickenpox. You can only get shingles if you yourself have had chickenpox in the past, even if you had it when you were too young to remember.