The Mayflower Compact was the first governing document of Plymouth Colony. It was written by separatist Congregationalists who called themselves Saints. Later they were referred to as Pilgrims or Pilgrim Fathers. They were fleeing from religious persecution by King James of England. Signing the covenant were 41 of the ship's 101 passengers, while the Mayflower was anchored in what is now Provincetown Harbor within the hook at the northern tip of Cape Cod.
~~~~~~~~ PILGRIMS The Pilgrims were English Separatists who founded (1620) Plymouth Colony in New England. In the first years of the 17th century, small numbers of English Puritans broke away from the Church of England because they felt that it had not completed the work of the Reformation. Search billions of records on Ancestry.com. Plymouth: Its History and People (Source: http://pilgrims.net/plymouth/history/index.htm) PLYMOUTH Plymouth is a town in southeastern Massachusetts, on Plymouth Bay, about 34 miles southeast of Boston.
Plymouth Colony did not have a royal charter authorizing it to form a government. Still, some means of governance was needed; the Mayflower Compact, signed by the 41 able-bodied Separatists aboard the Mayflower upon their arrival in Provincetown Harbor on November 21, 1620, was the colony's first governing document. The English in Plymouth Colony fit broadly into three categories: Pilgrims, Strangers, and Particulars. The Pilgrims, like the Puritans that would later found Massachusetts Bay Colony to the north, were a Protestant group that closely followed the teachings of John Calvin.
The compact became the basis of government in the Plymouth Colony. After it was signed, the Pilgrims elected John Carver their first governor. After weeks of scouting for a suitable settlement area, the Mayflower's passengers finally landed at Plymouth on Dec. 26, 1620. Search billions of records on Ancestry.com. Plymouth: Its History and People (Source: http://pilgrims.net/plymouth/history/index.htm) PLYMOUTH Plymouth is a town in southeastern Massachusetts, on Plymouth Bay, about 34 miles southeast of Boston.
Plymouth Rock, a tourist attraction, is on the shore under a granite canopy; recreations of Plimoth Plantation and the Mayflower are also there. The pilgrims founded Plymouth on Dec. 21, 1620, establishing a settlement that became the seat of Plymouth Colony in 1633 and a part of Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1691. Search billions of records on Ancestry.com. Plymouth: Its History and People (Source: http://pilgrims.net/plymouth/history/index.htm) PLYMOUTH Plymouth is a town in southeastern Massachusetts, on Plymouth Bay, about 34 miles southeast of Boston.
The Mayflower Compact as the written agreement by the signers in the presence of God, and of one another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politic (Pilgrim Hall Museum 2001). By signature on the Mayflower Compact, the Pilgrims entered into a covenant with God and with each other in the colony. The Mayflower Compact, a document signed aboard the ship Mayflower in 1620, set forth principles of tolerance and liberty for the government of a new colony in the New World (The Architect of the Capitol 2001).
The Mayflower was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in what is now Massachusetts. Signing the covenant were 41 of the ship's 101 passengers, while the Mayflower was anchored in what is now Provincetown Harbor within the hook at the northern tip of Cape Cod.
1 Colonial America: Plymouth Colony 1620 A short history of Plymouth Colony hosted at U-S-History.com, includes a map of all of the New England colonies. 2  The Plymouth Colony Archive Project A collection of primary sources documents and secondary source analysis related to Plymouth Colony. The English in Plymouth Colony fit broadly into three categories: Pilgrims, Strangers, and Particulars. The Pilgrims, like the Puritans that would later found Massachusetts Bay Colony to the north, were a Protestant group that closely followed the teachings of John Calvin.
Covenant A binding agreement or compact; in the Bible, God's promise to the human race. Massachusetts Bay Company Joint stock company chartered by the English government in 1629 to colonize a huge part of New England. The Massachusetts Bay Colony was centered in Boston. Mayflower Compact Document signed by Pilgrim men aboard the Mayflower, on Nov. 21, 1620, before the Plymouth landing. The Massachusetts Bay Colony was centered in Boston. Mayflower Compact. Document signed by Pilgrim men aboard the Mayflower, on Nov. 21, 1620, before the Plymouth landing. It was modeled after a Separatist church covenant, by which they agreed to establish a temporary government and to be bound by its laws.
Despite the colony's relatively short history, Plymouth holds a special role in American history. Rather than being entrepreneurs like many of the settlers of Jamestown, a significant proportion of the citizens of Plymouth were fleeing religious persecution and searching for a place to worship as they saw fit. The English in Plymouth Colony fit broadly into three categories: Pilgrims, Strangers, and Particulars. The Pilgrims, like the Puritans that would later found Massachusetts Bay Colony to the north, were a Protestant group that closely followed the teachings of John Calvin.