In a newborn, higher bilirubin is normal due to the stress of birth. Normal bilirubin in a newborn would be under 5 mg/dL, but up to 60 percent of newborns have some kind of jaundice and bilirubin levels above 5 mg/dL. Testing for bilirubin in the blood is therefore a good test of damage to your liver. Newborn infants often have some jaundice, and bilirubin in the blood may be tested several times in the first few days of an infant’s life to check that the liver is starting to work properly.
If bilirubin is not being attached to sugars (conjugated) in the liver and/or is not being adequately removed from the blood, it can mean that there is damage to your liver. Testing for bilirubin in the blood is therefore a good test of damage to your liver. Newborn infants often have some jaundice, and bilirubin in the blood may be tested several times in the first few days of an infant’s life to check that the liver is starting to work properly.
1 Direct bilirubin: 0.1 mg/ dl to 0.3 mg/ dl (1.7 mmol/ l to 5.1 mmol/ l). 2  Indirect bilirubin: 0.2 mg/ dl to 0.8 mg/ dl (3.4 mmol/ l to 12.0 mmol/ l). 3  Total bilirubin: 0.3 mg/ dl to 1.0 mg/ dl (5.1 mmol/ l to 17.0 mmol/ l). In order to analyze of the bilirubin levels in adults are normal or not, the doctor will need to look at the values of all three, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin and total bilirubin. Given below is the normal bilirubin range in adults: 1  Direct bilirubin: 0.1 mg/ dl to 0.3 mg/ dl (1.7 mmol/ l to 5.1
According to a bilirubin chart in newborn babies, the normal values that have been highlighted are: Premature Babies. 1  Less than 24 hours: Below 8.0 mg/ dl (below 137 mmol/ l). 2  Less than 48 hours: Below 12.0 mg/ dl (below 205 mmol/ l). 3  Aged between 3 and 5 days: Below 15.0 mg/ dl (below 256 mmol/ l). 
Phototherapy should be instituted when the total serum bilirubin level is at or above 15 mg per dL (257 mol per L) in infants 25 to 48 hours old, 18 mg per dL (308 mol per L) in infants 49 to 72 hours old, and 20 mg per dL (342 mol per L) in infants older than 72 hours. Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, defined as a total serum bilirubin level above 5 mg per dL (86 μmol per L), is a frequently encountered problem. Although up to 60 percent of term newborns have clinical jaundice in the first week of life, few have significant underlying disease.
Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is in everyone’s blood and stool. If you notice a yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes, this is called jaundice, and it may be caused by high levels of bilirubin. Bilirubin is made in the body when old red blood cells are broken down. Testing for bilirubin in the blood is therefore a good test of damage to your liver. Newborn infants often have some jaundice, and bilirubin in the blood may be tested several times in the first few days of an infant’s life to check that the liver is starting to work properly.
Reference Range. Bilirubin is a tetrapyrrole and a breakdown product of heme catabolism. Most bilirubin (70%-90%) is derived from hemoglobin degradation and, to a lesser extent, from other hemo proteins. In its unconjugated form, bilirubin is water-insoluble and binds avidly to tissues such as brain, sclera, and mucous membranes.
Typically, you'll get results for direct and total bilirubin. Normal results for a bilirubin test are 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) of total bilirubin for adults, and usually 1 mg/dL for those under 18. Normal results for direct bilirubin are generally 0.3 mg/dL. These results may vary slightly from laboratory to laboratory. Normal results may be slightly different for women and children, and results may be affected by certain foods, medications or strenuous exercise.
When bilirubin levels are high, the skin and whites of the eyes may appear yellow (jaundice). Jaundice may be caused by liver disease (hepatitis), blood disorders (hemolytic anemia), or blockage of the tubes (bile ducts) that allow bile to pass from the liver to the small intestine. 1 Diseases that cause blockage of the bile ducts, such as gallstones or cancer of the pancreas. 2  Rapid destruction of red blood cells in the blood, such as from sickle cell disease or an allergic reaction to blood received during a transfusion (called a transfusion reaction). 3  Medicines that may increase bilirubin levels.