Sina (NASDAQ: SINA) , which means new wave in Chinese, is the publicly traded online media company that created Weibo in China. Its site registers 100 million users, while its Sina Weibo has 56 percent of the Chinese microblogging market. What’s also appealing is that the top 100 users of Sina Weibo have 180 million followers combined.
This is the What’s on Weibo Sina Weibo file, an introduction to China’s biggest microblog. Sina Weibo is China’s most popular social media platform. This is What’s on Weibo’s Sina Weibo File: an introduction to Sina Weibo, with regularly updated facts and stats.
Here are 5 things you need to know: 1. Its name was originally Sina Weibo, and it is a mix of Twitter and Facebook. The name Weibo means microblog in China, and although Sina Weibo changed its name to Weibo, it has competitors such as Tencent Weibo which are also microblogging sites.
A Short Intro. Sina Weibo (新浪微博), often simply called ‘Weibo’ (pronounce as way-bo), is one of the biggest social media platforms of China. ‘Weibo’ literally means ‘micro-blog’. Weibo is often explained as the Chinese equivalent to Twitter or Facebook, two services that are blocked in mainland China.
They are among a clutch of US giants to join Sina Weibo, the most popular micro-blogging platform in China. Launched in August 2009, today Sina Weibo is not only the leading player in China’s micro-blogging space, but also the most influential platform in the overall social media landscape.
Part of the Internet applications glossary: Sina Weibo is a social networking and microblogging service based in China with more than 368 million registered users. Sina Weibo was launched in 2009 and is owned by SINA Corporation, the largest Internet portal in China.
Sina Weibo is a social networking and microblogging service based in China with more than 368 million registered users.
Twitter is banned in China, as is Facebook, and Chinese authorities are known to patrol Sina Weibo. If officials perceive a post to be negative, offensive or damaging to the Chinese government, they have it deleted.