The male gametophytes, called microgametophytes, are produced in anther sacs in the anthers of the flower's stamens. Like the male gametophytes of the gymnosperms, the sperm is encased in a protective cover and this complex is called a pollen grain. These protonemas produce gametophytes, small leafy plants, male and female. It is these gametophytes, the leafy plants, which we typically associate with mosses. Sperm is produced within the antheridium of the male gametophyte, eggs are found in the female gametophyte's archaegonium.
The transfer of pollen from the male cone to the female cone is pollination. When an ovule is receptive, a drop of sticky fluid is produced and fills the pollen chamber; some fluid exudes through the micropyle. Pollen sticks in the fluid exuding from the micropyle. A major difference between gymnosperms and angiosperms is how the seeds are attached to the plant. Seeds of gymnosperms are not enclosed; instead, they are open to the surrounding environment. This type of unprotected seed is a naked seed.
In general the spores of bacteria, fungi, algae and protists are rarely preserved but those of terrestrial plants are very common fossils. Terrestrial plants produce extremely resistent spores and pollen which are easily transported by wind and water. The following images are of a representative selection of spores and pollen aimed at giving a general overview of the different morphotypes. Each specimen is given a generic and, if possible, a species name followed by its age range, the site location from which the sample was obtained and its size in microns.
In the process of spore production in the capsule haploid spores are produced by the diploid sporophyte. This happens by the process of meiosis, the same process by which animals (including humans) produce eggs and sperm, and by which the flowering plants produce eggs and pollen. Bryophytes may reproduce both sexually and vegetatively. Sexual reproduction involves the mixing of the genes of two parents, with the potential to produce new plants that differ, genetically, from each parent. In vegetative reproduction, there is no such mixing and each new plant is derived from just one parent plant.
Palynology is the study of the pollen grain produced by the seed plant (Angiosperm and gymnosperm) and spores produced by Pteridophytes, Bryophytes, algae and fungi (Moore et al ., 1991). In present study Pollen analysis of Pollen loads were done to determine the beeflora of area under study. 
Gymnosperms. Gymnosperms are one of the two groups of seed plants. The flowering plants (angiosperms), are the other. In going from mosses and ferns to the seed plants, we see a very significant difference in plant life cycles. In mosses and ferns the propagating units for new individuals are spores. A major difference between gymnosperms and angiosperms is how the seeds are attached to the plant. Seeds of gymnosperms are not enclosed; instead, they are open to the surrounding environment. This type of unprotected seed is a naked seed.
Pteridophytes or Pteridophyta, in the broad interpretation of the term (or sensu lato), are vascular plants (plants with xylem and phloem) that reproduce and disperse via spores. Because they produce neither flowers nor seeds, they are referred to as cryptogams. The group includes ferns, horsetails, clubmosses, spikemosses and quillworts. These do not form a monophyletic group, because ferns and horsetails are more closely related to seed plants than to lycophytes (clubmosses, spikemosses and quillworts).
Pollen is the haploid male gametophyte generation of the plant and is produced in both angiosperms and gymnosperms through the process of meiosis. Pollen is produced in the male cones of gymnosperms and in the anthers of angiosperms.      Pollen and allergies.   Each spring, summer, and fall, tiny particles are released from trees, weeds, and grasses. These particles, known as pollen, hitch rides on currents of air
Pollen in plants is used for transferring haploid male genetic material from the anther of a single flower to the stigma of another in cross-pollination. In a case of self-pollination, this process takes place from the anther of a flower to the stigma of the same flower. This transfer can be mediated by the wind, in which case the plant is described as anemophilous (literally wind-loving). Anemophilous plants typically produce great quantities of very lightweight pollen grains, sometimes with air-sacs. Non-flowering seed plants (e.g. pine trees) are characteristically anemophilous.
Pollen is produced by seed plants, both angiosperms and gymnosperms. Pollen has a cellulose wall around the protoplasm called the intine, outside this is the sporopollenin layer which is inert, very tough and resistent to bacterial attack, this layer is called the exine. The following images are of a representative selection of spores and pollen aimed at giving a general overview of the different morphotypes. Each specimen is given a generic and, if possible, a species name followed by its age range, the site location from which the sample was obtained and its size in microns.