Home United Kingdom. As shown in the given London location map that London is located on Thames River in the south-east region of England, United Kingdom. London is the capital city of country England as well as United Kingdom. Furthermore, London is a global city that leads in terms including finance, arts, commerce, education, entertainment, fashion, healthcare, media, professional services, research and development, tourism. As per the report, London is the city that receives the most international visitors of any city in the world.
Find London now! London is the capital of England and the United Kingdom, the largest metropolitan area in the United Kingdom and the largest urban zone in the European Union. London's ancient core, the City of London, largely retains its square-mile mediaeval boundaries. Just click on the map right at the position where you think London is located. The map can be zoomed and shifted-as you are used to do with Google Maps-to ensure you can find London. You can drag and drop the red marker or just click anywhere else to change the location of London.
Where is London, England, United Kingdom Located? London is a city/town with a very large population in the country of England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near London include Chigwell, Loughton, Borehamwood and Elstree. The closest major cities include Southampton, Coventry, Leicester and Birmingham. 
The City of London is widely referred to simply as the City (often written as just City and differentiated from the phrase the city of London by capitalising City) and is also colloquially known as the Square Mile, as it is 1.12 sq mi (2.90 km 2) in area. The City is now only a tiny part of the metropolis of London, though it remains a notable part of central London. It is one of two districts of London to hold city status; the other is the adjacent City of Westminster.
London is by far the largest city in England and the United Kingdom. 8.63 million people live in London, which is on the River Thames. It is the capital of the United Kingdom. London is the biggest city in middle Europe, and the world's largest financial centre. London was founded by the Romans in AD 43 and called Londinium. London is also known as Lunnainn in Scottish Gaelic, Llundain in Welsh and Londain in Irish.
The city has a population of 366,151 according to the 2011 Canadian census. London is at the confluence of the non-navigable Thames River, approximately halfway between Toronto, Ontario and Detroit, Michigan. The City of London is a separated municipality, politically separate from Middlesex County, though it remains the county seat. London is a regional centre of health care and education, being home to the University of Western Ontario, Fanshawe College, and several hospitals.
London /ˈlʌndən/ is the capital and most populous city of England and the United Kingdom. Standing on the River Thames, London has been a major settlement for two millennia, its history going back to its founding by the Romans, who named it Londinium. The etymology of London is uncertain. It is an ancient name, found in sources from the 2nd century. It is recorded c. 121 as Londinium, which points to Romano-British origin. The earliest attempted explanation, now disregarded, is attributed to Geoffrey of Monmouth in Historia Regum Britanniae.
London is also a destination for inter-city bus travellers. London is the seventh-busiest Greyhound Canada terminal in terms of passengers, and connecting services radiate from London throughout Southwestern Ontario and through to the American cities of Detroit, Michigan and Chicago, Illinois. London is a regional centre of health care and education, being home to the University of Western Ontario, Fanshawe College, and several hospitals.
London, England is located in the South-East of England upon the River Thames. More information: What's normally called London is actually a collection of cities, districts and towns. At the heart is the City of London (known in the UK as The City); this is the financial district. What most tourists think of as London is actually the City of Westminster (confusingly this is sometimes known as Town to Londoners) Parliament and the Queen's London residence is in Westminster. The City of London is the name of an area of London, where the stock markets are etc. London is a city, but the actual City of London is an area between East and Central Lon … don. The City of London is only one square mile that formed the original city in Roman times.