Thigh pain is any type of pain or discomfort affecting the area stretching from the pelvis to the knee. Your thighs provide structural support and enable movement, and are made up of bones, muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and blood vessels. In some cases, thigh pain may be caused by a serious or life-threatening condition, such as deep vein thrombosis, bone fracture, or hip dislocation.
Muscle-related Injury. Muscle-related injuries are a common cause of pain in your outer thigh. An important leg muscle runs from your pelvis along the outer thigh to your lower leg bone. Other muscles run from your pelvis to your upper thigh bone. The muscles in this area move your leg out to the side. The cause of the pain is sometimes obvious, such as when you pull a muscle during a sports activity or workout. However, your pain can also be caused by less obvious conditions, such as a pinched nerve. Seek medical attention for an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment if you have outer thigh pain.
There are a wide variety of conditions that can cause thigh pain. For example, thigh pain can be caused by physical activity, injury, or age-related wear and tear on the hips and knees, which may cause pain or discomfort in the thigh area near the joint. Infectious causes of thigh pain. Thigh pain can be caused by various infections including: Cellulitis (invasive infection of the skin and surrounding tissues). Infection of a wound or sore. Infection of the knee or hip, which can lead to septic arthritis and cause pain in the joint that radiates to the thigh area. Osteomyelitis (bone infection)
Anterior or front thigh pain can be debilitating. There are many causes of anterior or front thigh pain. According to MayoClinic.com, leg pain, including anterior thigh pain, can affect a person's ability to walk, bear weight on the affected side and feel stable. A charley horse can cause anterior thigh pain. According to MedlinePlus, a charley horse is a muscle spasm, especially in the leg. Although muscle spasms can occur anywhere in the body, the legs, including the anterior thigh muscles, are common locations for spasms to manifest.
Trauma is the most obvious cause of leg pain. Falls, near falls, and twisting injuries can damage bones, muscles, and joints of the leg or a combination of all three. Back pain, due to injury, can inflame the sciatic nerve and cause sciatica. This is a pain that radiates down the leg that follows the path of one of the many nerve roots that leave the spinal cord and make up the sciatic nerve.
Thigh pain: Introduction. Thigh pain: A condition which is characterized by pain which is located in the thigh. See detailed information below for a list of 26 causes of Thigh pain, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Thigh pain: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 
Causes of Thigh Pain Tension in the muscle groups on the back of the thigh is extremely common. If left unaddressed, this tension will often lead to painful stiffness that is experienced in the back of the thigh region. 
Chiefly, these are the common causes of front thigh pain. Symptoms may vary from one patient to the other. If you experience swelling in the thigh or feet, pain in the groin to the front side of the leg, muscle weakness and pain when stretching, it is imperative that you seek medical assistance. 4. Charley Horse. This is also one of the major causes of front thigh pain. It is characterized by cramps or spasms in the legs and more specifically on the thigh. Minor twitching and excruciating pain can also occur, lasting for a few minutes to a couple of hours.