Answer. Objective, yes, he did commit a sin against the Holy Spirit. By being re-baptized, he implied by his actions that what the Holy Spirit did in his first baptism was not sufficient. Objectively, that is a sin, because it insults the work of the Holy Spirit. A friend of mine just got re-baptized. He was baptized as an infant and just got re-baptized by another church. I think that he may have sinned
The Catholic Church respects the Baptism of anyone who was baptised with flowing water in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Baptism is the sacrament of our rebirth in Christ and our immersion into his saving death and resurrection and therefore cannot be repeated. 
Yes, the Catholic Church recognizes any baptism that uses water and in which the baptized was baptized was the words “I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.” Some churches do not use the trinitarian formula for baptism and thus their baptisms are not valid. Anyone can perform a baptism, however this is typically done only in extreme cases in which someone’s life is in danger. The Catholic Church has ordinary ministers for sacraments and those are bishops, priests, and sometimes deacons.
Parental marital status does not invalidate a baptism. If she was baptised in the Catholic Church, I'm sure it was valid trinitarian formula, and it's more than likely documented somewhere. No, she does not need to be baptized again. She can take classes if she wants to start receiving the Eucharist.
Consequently, when a protestant wishes to become a Catholic, the pastor who will receive the person into the Church looks into the circumstances of that person’s baptism, and decides whether there are any grounds to doubt its validity. If not, canon 869.2 states clearly that the person is not to be baptized again. This is no doubt why Dave’s Presbyterian coworker will be received into the Catholic Church on Holy Saturday without being baptized by the Catholic pastor. It may be that he was baptized by a family member in an emergency— canon 861.2 notes that in cases of necessity, any person with the correct intention may baptize—and thus there is no record of the baptism in any church registry.
The Catholic Church recognizes the baptism of anyone who was baptized with water and the words, [Name], I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.. For more information, see the Catechism of the Catholic Church: http://www.nccbuscc.org/catechism/text/p... With love in Christ. No. Jesus said, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to the whole creation. He who believes and is baptized will be saved. (Mark 16:15-16) The Catholic Church believes that you can only be saved once and therefore should only be baptized once.
You can be baptized all you want. Just realize your salvation is not in the baptism. It is in Jesu Christ and what he did at the Cross. Usually, a church sets up a baptism for a teenager I was 12 and it's a church thing. 
In the Latin Church of the Catholic Church, the ordinary minister of baptism is a bishop, priest, or deacon (canon 861 §1 of the Code of Canon Law), and in normal circumstances, only the parish priest of the person to be baptized, or someone authorized by the parish priest may do so licitly (canon 530). 
Baptism is a once-for-all sacrament that washes away original sin, gives sanctifying grace, and imparts a supernatural character upon the soul that makes a person a Christian. An attempt to redo a valid baptism would be useless: The second baptism would not take because the first was valid. I was baptized in a Lutheran church as a baby and would now like to enter the Catholic Church. Because I have not been living a Christian life until recently, I very much want to be re-baptized but have been told that the Catholic Church does not re-baptize.
The Catechism of the Catholic Church states that “Every person not yet baptized and only such a person is able to be baptized,” (paragraph 1246). Baptism leaves an indelible (permanent) mark on the soul and there is no way nor any reason that one could be re-baptized. Anyone can perform a baptism, however this is typically done only in extreme cases in which someone’s life is in danger. The Catholic Church has ordinary ministers for sacraments and those are bishops, priests, and sometimes deacons.