Question: What is the hottest time of day? 3 P.M., or noon? Answer: The hottest time of the day is around 3 p.m. Heat continues building up after noon, when the sun is highest in the sky, as long as more heat is arriving at the earth than leaving. By 3 p.m. or so, the sun is low enough in the sky for outgoing heat to be greater than incoming. Sometimes the hottest time is earlier because a weather system moves in with cool air early in the day.
Late afternoon into early evening is the hottest part of the day since the sun has been up heating the ground all day. The ground, in turn, heats the air, so the heat continues even though the sun is not at it's highest point. This is the same for the coldest time of day. The highest levels of solar radiation are an hour or so either side of this and this is the time you are most likely to get burnt.. The hottest time of the day is later in the afternoon. The sun heats the Earth which, in turn, heats the lower troposphere.
The hottest time of the day and the time of maximum burning are two different things. The most intense solar radiation comes at Local Apparent Noon. This is not necessarily the same time as noon on the clock unless you live on the meridian of your time zone. The highest levels of solar radiation are an hour or so either side of this and this is the time you are most likely to get burnt.. The hottest time of the day is later in the afternoon. The sun heats the Earth which, in turn, heats the lower troposphere. The incoming solar radiation starts each day at zero at sunrise, reaches a maximum at noon and falls back to zero at sunset
XiXinXing/XiXinXing/Getty Images. Determining the hottest time of day depends on the time of year and your location on the planet. Rays from the sun heat up the planet like a burner on a stove boils water. Even though the burner is set on high, it takes a while for the water to boil. Thermal Response. The thermal response begins at solar noon, when the surface of the Earth begins to heat. The temperature continues to climb as long as the Earth receives more heat than it sends to space. The delay from solar noon and the hottest time of the day, or thermal response, generally takes hours. The hottest part of the day during the summer is usually between 3 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., depending on cloud cover and wind speed
The hottest part of the day is 3 pm in the afternoon. The sun is  the highest in the sky at noon, after that time heat builds up and  then peaks at 3 pm. 2 people found this useful. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Actually, the sun remains the same temperature regardless of the time of day. I believe you are asking what time of day is the hottest time of day... If so, then your answer will be between 2 - 4 p.m., dependant upon several factors. Some of the major things that can alter this are whether the conditions are cloudy or if there is precipitation. · just now. Report Abuse. The sun is hottest from about 11 am until 3 pm eastern time but that is the time you should stay out of the sun due to the danger of getting skin cancer. Malignant melanoma is on the rise especially among young white women and the reason is tanning.
Hottest Time of the Day is the debut single by South Korean boy band, 2PM. The single was released in physical and digital format on August 29, 2008, A-side from single is 10 Jeom Manjeome 10 Jeom. Find sources: Hottest Time of the Day – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR · free images (January 2015). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources.