Covalent bonds form when two atoms have a very small (nearly insignificant) difference in electronegativity. The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons. 
Ionic Bonding. This interactive activity from ChemThink discusses ionic bonding—a type of chemical bond formed between two ions with opposite charges. Investigate how the transfer of electrons between atoms creates ions and how the mutual attraction of these charged particles forms ionic bonds
About Covalent and Ionic Bonds. The covalent bond is formed when two atoms are able to share electrons whereas the ionic bond is formed when the sharing is so unequal that an electron from atom A is completely lost to atom B, resulting in a pair of ions. Each atom consists of protons, neutrons and electrons. Covalent bonding is a form of chemical bonding between two non metallic atoms which is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms and other covalent bonds.
i·on·ic bond. A chemical bond formed between two ions with opposite charges. Ionic bonds form when one atom gives up one or more electrons to another atom. These bonds can form between a pair of atoms or between molecules and are the type of bond found in salts. See more at bond, coordinate bond, covalent bond.
An ionic bond is formed between a metal and a non-metal. Non-metals(-ve ion) are stronger than the metal(+ve ion) and can get electrons very easily from the metal. These two opposite ions attract each other and form the ionic bond. Covalent bonding is a form of chemical bonding between two non metallic atoms which is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms and other covalent bonds.
a chemical bond. The two extreme cases of chemical bonds are: Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding. Chemical Bonding. Chemical compounds are formed by the joining of two or more atoms. A stable compound occurs when the total energy of the combination has lower energy than the separated atoms. The bound state implies a net attractive force between the atoms ...
A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms that allows the formation of chemical substances that contain two or more atoms. The bond is caused by the electrostatic force of attraction between opposite charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction. The strength of chemical bonds varies considerably; there are strong bonds such as covalent or ionic bonds and weak bonds such as Dipole-dipole interaction, the London dispersion force and hydrogen bonding.
An ionic bond is typically formed between a metal and a non-metal. A bond between two elements caused by a difference in charge created by the donation of an electron by one of the atoms to another. Atoms that have only one or very few electrons in their valence shell are very vulnerable to losing them. 
There are two types of atomic bonds-ionic bonds and covalent bonds. They differ in their structure and properties. Covalent bonds consist of pairs of electrons shared by two atoms, and bind the atoms in a fixed orientation. Relatively high energies are required to break them (50 - 200 kcal/mol). Covalent bonding is a form of chemical bonding between two non metallic atoms which is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms and other covalent bonds.