Energy, Activity, Intensity and Exposure. Different radioactive materials and X-ray generators produce radiation at different energy levels and at different rates. It is important to understand the terms used to describe the energy and intensity of the radiation. The four terms used most for this purpose are: energy, activity, intensity and exposure. Exposure One way to measure the intensity of x-rays or gamma rays is to measure the amount of ionization they cause in air. The amount of ionization in air produced by the radiation is called the exposure.
The radiation dose rate at a given time and place. It may be used, coupled with a figure, to denote the radiation intensity at a given number of hours after a nuclear burst, e.g., RI-3 is the radiation intensity 3 hours after the time of burst. Also called RI. 1  Facebook. 
Managing Radiation Emergencies. Radiation is energy that comes from a source and travels through some material or through space. Light, heat and sound are types of radiation. The kind of radiation discussed in this presentation is called ionizing radiation because it can produce charged particles (ions) in matter
Defining of the Intensity of Solar Radiation on Horizontal and Oblique Surfaces on Earth 79 December 20 th (summer longest daylight on the south hemisphere, i.e., winter shortestdaylight on the north hemisphere). During the spring and autumn equinox, on March 21 st and September 22 nd the declination angle is 0°. The intensity of solar radiation that comes to vertical wall surface (s = 90°)for orientation ψ = + 80°. Defining of the Intensity of Solar Radiation on Horizontal and Oblique Surfaces on Earth 85 Fig. 3. The intensity of solar radiation that comes to vertical wall surface (s = 90°)for orientation ψ = − 80°In fig.
Three types of units are used to measure ionizing radiation. The roentgen (R) is a unit of exposure dose applicable only to x-rays and gamma rays. It is the amount of radiation that produces 2.58 × 10 −4 coulomb of positive and negative ions passing through 1 kilogram of dry air. n (stray radiation), the escape of radiation through the protective shielding of the radiography unit tube head. This radiation is detected at the sides, top, bottom, or back of the tube head; it does not include the useful beam.
Specific (radiative) intensity is a quantity used in physics that describes electromagnetic radiation. It is a term used in much of the older scientific literature. The present-day SI term is spectral radiance, which can be expressed in base SI units as W m−2 sr−1 Hz−1. For the concept of specific intensity, the line of propagation of radiation lies in a semi-transparent medium which varies continuously in its optical properties.
Did you find this definition of INTENSITY OF RADIATION helpful? You can share it by copying the code below and adding it to your blog or web page. 
Luminous intensity. The luminous intensity of a light source is the power of light. It is defined in a given direction and is measured in candela, cd.The candela is one of the seven base units of the SI system and specifies the luminous intensity in one specific angle from a light source. 