Rayon fiber is produced from the ripened viscose solutions by treatment with a mineral acid, such as sulfuric acid. Viscose rayon is a fiber of regenerated cellulose; it is structurally similar to cotton but may be produced from a variety of plants such as soy, bamboo, and sugar cane.
Viscose Rug Cleaning – Understanding the Viscose Fiber. Viscose rayon is a man-made fiber made from wood pulp though other materials may be used. It is basically modified cellulose. Viscose is very similar to cotton and silk. (Cotton is also made of cellulose). Viscose falls somewhere in between a natural fiber and a man-made one. The natural sheen of the fiber has earned it the term art silk for artificial silk.
Viscose rugs are attractive but not long-lasting. A hand-woven rug made from natural fibers is an enduring treasure that displays the craftsmanship of the weaver. Viscose rugs, however, do not fall into this category. A viscose rug is manufactured from man-made rayon filaments, which don't hold up well to foot traffic. Moisture is a fierce enemy of viscose rugs, as the rayon fibers lose 50 percent of their strength when they come in contact with liquids. A rug made entirely of viscose is known as a disposable rug and is not made to last very long under normal foot traffic.
It all depends. There are good viscose rugs and poor quality viscose rugs. Viscose is really rayon. It is not as durable as wool or many artificial fibers that are used to make rugs. However, it dyes well and has a nice sheen to it when used for rugs. It does not do well when wet, so you have to be careful when cleaning it. Now I am not sure why,it is much thinner than the wool rugs but that part is fine by me. I just want it to last and look good for at least 5-7 years. I happened to like the colors on this viscose rug but I can certainly wait since they get new things in every day and wait for a wool one that I like.
However, it's not wool, it's made of viscose. My ID has suggested that a carpet made of viscose may not last like a wool one, so it's perhaps not the best idea to decorate around a rug that may not last too long. I will be purchasing new sofa, chairs, drapes and the rug is the starting point. I would avoid a viscose rug like the plague. Buy a good wool rug and not have to go through this in 5 to 7 years...IF it lasts that long. Viscose soils and holds dirt...wool is self cleaning (sort of!). I can't imagine spending thousands of dollars decorating around a cheap rug.
I’m a certified Master Rug Cleaner as well as a certified technician with the IICRC for carpet, upholstery, and fine fabric restoration. I hate to say it but alot of the information above is completely wrong. To answer the original post. Viscose is another name used for Rayon. This fiber is regarded as synthetic fibers but its made from natural cellulose. Cotton Linters and wood pulp are are regenerated and turned into a thick paste which is extruded like a synthetic fiber to produce a filament that is then plyed and twisted into a yar
Have the rug dry cleaned if it is very important to you. Viscose is a fairly fragile fiber and also one that is very vulnerable to bleeding dye. Because of this, it's easy to damage viscose rugs or cause them to bleed by simply trying to clean them. Optionally, spritz the rug with dilute fabric softener. Viscose fibers can stiffen as they dry, creating clumped, splotchy sections on your rug. To help prevent this, you may want to mist the rug ever-so-delicately with a mixture of fabric softener and water using a spray bottle.
Rayon fibers that make up a viscose rug do not readily hold dye, which can result in irreversible color bleeding and fading. Before a viscose rug is professionally cleaned, the cleaners should do a dye test to determine if it can be safely cleaned without destroying it. Moisture is a fierce enemy of viscose rugs, as the rayon fibers lose 50 percent of their strength when they come in contact with liquids. A rug made entirely of viscose is known as a disposable rug and is not made to last very long under normal foot traffic.