Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium are the most common probiotic bacteria. The Lactobacillus genus has 18 different bacteria strains, while the Bifidobacterium genus consists of eight strains.
But your body is full of bacteria, both good and bad. Probiotics are often called good or helpful bacteria because they help keep your gut healthy. Probiotics are naturally found in your body. You can also find them in some foods and supplements.
Tweet. There are several types of probiotics with Lactobacillus acidophilus being the most well known. They come from the Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, Saccharomyces and Streptococcus families with one or two less well known individuals from other families.
Many types of bacteria are classified as probiotics. They all have different benefits, but most come from two groups. Ask your doctor about which might best benefit you. Lactobacillus. This may be the most common probiotic. It’s the one you’ll find in yogurt and other fermented foods.
Antibiotics kill both good and bad bacteria, so if you take antibiotics, eating products with probiotics helps replace the good bacteria in your digestive system. Eating foods rich in probiotics also helps prevent diarrhea and decreases the symptoms of lactose intolerance or Crohn’s disease.
Lactobacillus is a type of bacteria. There are lots of different species of lactobacillus. These are friendly bacteria that normally live in our digestive, urinary, and genital systems without causing disease. Lactobacillus is also in some fermented foods like yogurt and in dietary supplements.
In the proper sense of the word then, the types of probiotics we will identify here are the living bacteria that’s been cultured and added to yogurt and other foods and drinks, and of the pill and powder variety of supplements.
Probiotics may contain a variety of microorganisms. The most common are bacteria that belong to groups called Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium. Each of these two broad groups includes many types of bacteria.
Probiotics are live microorganisms (mostly bacteria) that colonize the gut and provide beneficial effects. Probiotics are different from other types of bacteria in that they are considered “good” bacteria or non-pathogenic in healthy people. Within our gut there are over 500 different types of beneficial bacteria.