4. Keep thawed turkey in the refrigerator. A whole, uncooked, thawed turkey can be stored in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If kept undisturbed in the store packaging, you can store store-bought turkey in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, or until the use by date marked on the packaging. The refrigerator should be at a temperature under 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius). 1 The bird can safely remain in the freezer for up to 1 year. 2  Fresh parts of the bird can be kept for up to 9 months in the freezer. 3  Ground fresh turkey can be kept in the freezer for 3 to 4 months. 4  After this amount of time, the quality of the meat will diminish.
Proper Storage. Fresh Turkey. A fresh whole turkey or fresh turkey parts may be stored in the refrigerator at 33°F to 40°F for 1 or 2 days before cooking. It is best to place turkey products in the coldest part of the refrigerator, which is usually the meat drawer or the bottom shelf. Cooked turkey that is properly refrigerated should be used within 3 or 4 days. If this is not possible, the leftover turkey may be tightly wrapped in freezer paper or aluminum foil and placed in the freezer where it may be kept for 3 to 4 months.
A thawed turkey can remain in the refrigerator for 1 or 2 days before cooking. Foods thawed in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking but there may be some loss of quality. Cold Water Thawing Times. 1  4 to 12 pounds — 2 to 6 hours. 2  12 to 16 pounds — 6 to 8 hours. 3  16 to 20 pounds — 8 to 10 hours. 
Stuffing and Gravy. Leftover stuffing may be kept in the refrigerator for 1 or 2 days and should never be frozen for later use. If it is not used within 1 or 2 days, it should be discarded. When reheating, the stuffing should be allowed to reach a temperature of not less than 165°F. Cooked turkey that is properly refrigerated should be used within 3 or 4 days. If this is not possible, the leftover turkey may be tightly wrapped in freezer paper or aluminum foil and placed in the freezer where it may be kept for 3 to 4 months.
That will reduce your regular refrigerator storage time by 4 days, while brining the salt will give added protection against spoilage. To brine a turkey for more than 36 hours use a half strength brine, 2.5% salt or 2 oz salt by weight (4 Tablespoons kosher salt or 3 Tablespoons table salt) per 10 cups water. The company customer service representative as well as the store manager all reassure us that their turkeys are fine to refrigerate in the coldest part of the refrigerator for as long as 10 days. The turkey's sell-by date is Nov. 28 - two days after Thanksgiving.
If you are asking how long you can leave a still frozen (t … hawing) turkey (that used to be frozen or fresh), it depends on the size of turkey and the temperature in the refrigerator since that will determine how long it will take to thaw (it takes approximately 24hrs for each 5lbs). This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. 12 people found this useful.
This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. 17 people found this useful. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container.
Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. This food will keep for about 5 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time. 12 people found this useful.