The biggest advantage of refinancing with a VA home loan is that homeowners can refinance up to 100 percent of the home's value, and they don't have to pay for mortgage insurance. A non-VA home loan normally requires some equity in the house. Borrowers refinancing an existing VA home loan through this streamline program pay a lower funding fee than they would pay under other VA loan options. The fee generally is 0.5 percent of the total loan amount and can be added to the loan balance. The program allows refinances up to 100 percent of the home's valu
The refinance must result in a lower payment for the veteran or refinance out of an adjustable rate mortgage into a fixed rate loan. The transaction must also be a VA to VA refinance, a VA streamline won't refinance an existing conventional or FHA loan and during a streamline, there can be no cash-out to the borrower. Conventional to VA Refinance. While a VA streamline refinance only allows a VA to VA transaction, VA loans can refinance other existing loan types including FHA and conventional mortgages. While not common, refinancing from a conventional to a VA loan is advantageous when current property values are a concern.
In some cases, veterans purchase a home without the benefits of a VA loan and decide later they would like to refinance their conventional mortgage through the VA loan program. For one thing, VA loan interest rates are much lower than standard rates. The switch requires only a few steps. 
Conventional loans allow for a refinance up to 90 percent of the current value of the property. If an existing mortgage balance is $200,000 then the appraisal must be at least $222,222 before a conventional refinance can take place. Conventional to VA Refinance. While a VA streamline refinance only allows a VA to VA transaction, VA loans can refinance other existing loan types including FHA and conventional mortgages. While not common, refinancing from a conventional to a VA loan is advantageous when current property values are a concern.
Among the benefits of conventional to VA refinancing are no out-of-pocket closing costs, lower interest rates, no monthly mortgage insurance, and cash out up to 90% of the value of your home. It is certainly beneficial for eligible individuals with a conventional mortgage to refinance to a VA mortgage loan. Converting a Conventional Mortgage to a VA Loan. Individuals who qualify for a VA home loan, but do not currently have one, may choose to refinance their conventional loan to a VA loan. Refinancing a conventional loan to a VA loan will save the borrower money, among numerous other benefits.
Qualified veterans with conventional loans can refinance into the VA loan program. It comes as a surprise to some, but one of the myriad benefits of VA loans is that qualified veterans with non-VA home mortgages can refinance into a VA loan and reap the program’s benefits. Make no mistake: This isn’t a second mortgage or a home equity loan. A VA refinance replaces your current mortgage. On a VA Cash-Out, the bonus is that qualified veterans can refinance up to 100 percent of their home’s appraised value, depending on the lender. Some lenders opt to refinance only up to 90 percent.
But refinancing into a VA loan is an option. A standard VA refinance (no cash-out) allows the loan amount to be up to 100 percent of the value of the home. In the above example, let's say the property appraised at $205,000 the loan can be refinanced from a conventional mortgage to a VA loan. If the interest rate is low enough for the VA loan compared to an existing conventional or FHA loan, then it can make sense to refinance into a new VA mortgage. Conventional to VA Refinance. While a VA streamline refinance only allows a VA to VA transaction, VA loans can refinance other existing loan types including FHA and conventional mortgages. While not common, refinancing from a conventional to a VA loan is advantageous when current property values are a concern.
The VA Interest Rate Reduction Refinance Loan (IRRRL) lowers your interest rate by refinancing your existing VA home loan. By obtaining a lower interest rate, your monthly mortgage payment should decrease. You can also refinance an adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) into a fixed rate mortgage. 
Refinancing a conventional loan into a VA home loan. If you don't have a VA home loan but would be eligible for one, you may refinance your conventional mortgage into a VA loan. Generally, most members of the military, veterans, reservists and National Guard members are eligible to apply for a VA home loan. Borrowers refinancing an existing VA home loan through this streamline program pay a lower funding fee than they would pay under other VA loan options. The fee generally is 0.5 percent of the total loan amount and can be added to the loan balance. The program allows refinances up to 100 percent of the home's value