Human eye color charts once were used to predict eye colors of children. In the most simplified versions of these charts, brown eyes are considered dominant over both blue and green eyes. And green eyes are thought to be dominant over blue eyes. While these concepts generally are true, the genetics of how eye colors are inherited turn out to be far more complicated than once thought.
The two gene model (EYCL1 and EYCL3) used here clearly does not explain more than a portion of human eye color inheritance. Two gene model: There are two genes involved in eye color. One gene has Dominant Brown or recessive blue states, the other has Dominant Green or recessive blue states. EYCL2 (bey1), the central brown eye color gene, possibly located on chromosome 15. EYCL3 (bey2), the Brown/blue eye color gene located on chromosome 15. A role has also been suggested for the Melanocortin Receptor Gene (MCIR) on chromosome 16.
We used to think of brown being dominant and blue being recessive.. But modern science has shown that eye color is not at all that simple. Also, eye colors don't come out as a blend of the parents' colors, as in mixing paint. 
Eye color or eye colour is a polygenic phenotypic character determined by two distinct factors: the pigmentation of the eye 's iris and the frequency-dependence of the scattering of light by the turbid medium in the stroma of the iris. Some eyes have a dark ring around the iris, called a limbal ring. Eye color in non-human animals is regulated differently. For example, instead of blue as in humans, autosomal recessive eye color in the skink species Corucia zebrata is black, and the autosomal dominant color is yellow-green.
Brown eyes are the most common eye color in the world with over 55% of the world's population having brown eyes. Brown eye color is a dominant genetic trait, and is created by the presence of melanin in the eye. Over fifty percent of the world's population has brown eyes, with nearly all individuals from Africa and Asia sharing brown eye color. Hazel Eyes. Blue eyes are genetically recessive, and therefore much less common worldwide. Blue eyes are formed by the absence of pigments in the eye, where the blue color is formed by the scattering of light as it's reflected off the iris.
Recessive traits in eye color include blue eyes, green eyes, gray eyes and hazel eyes. Brown eye color is a dominant trait.... If two parents have one gene for brown eyes and one gene for blue eyes in location EYCL3, there is one chance in four that one of there children will have two genes for blue eyes. In other words, both parents have brown eyes, but one fourth of their children (on average) will have
One other thing you need to know is that brown is dominant over green -- if you have a B version of gene 1 and a G version of gene 2, you will have brown eyes. Given all this, here are the possible gene combinations that can give you brown, green, or blue eyes: In fact, in your case, your genes for eye color are stronger than your husband's because brown is dominant over blue (we'll go more into this later). We usually get the opposite question where people wonder how someone with brown eyes could have blue-eyed kids.
Dark brown eyes are dominant in humans and in many parts of the world, it is nearly the only iris color present. Dark pigment of brown eyes is common in East Asia, Southeast Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, West Asia, Oceania, Africa, Americas, etc. as well as parts of Eastern Europe and Southern Europe. Some eyes have a dark ring around the iris, called a limbal ring. Eye color in non-human animals is regulated differently. For example, instead of blue as in humans, autosomal recessive eye color in the skink species Corucia zebrata is black, and the autosomal dominant color is yellow-green.
Humans and other animals have many phenotypic variations in eye color. The genetics of eye color are complicated, and color is determined by multiple genes. So far, as many as 15 genes have been associated with eye color inheritance. Some of the eye-color genes include OCA2 and HERC2. The earlier belief that blue eye color is a simple recessive trait has been shown to be incorrect. Some eyes have a dark ring around the iris, called a limbal ring. Eye color in non-human animals is regulated differently. For example, instead of blue as in humans, autosomal recessive eye color in the skink species Corucia zebrata is black, and the autosomal dominant color is yellow-green.
Dominant: Brown. Recessive: Blue, Green and Gray. The most dominant eye color in the world is brown and the most recessive eye color in the world is blue due to low pigmentation. If you have one parent who only has the gene for brown eyes, BB, and one parent who only has the gene for blue eyes, bb, then all the children will have brown eyes. Example: One parent gives a B, the other gives a b. Bb =