In a way, a capacitor is a little like a battery. Although they work in completely different ways, capacitors and batteries both store electrical energy. If you have read How Batteries Work, then you know that a battery has two terminals. Inside the battery, chemical reactions produce electrons on one terminal and absorb electrons on the other terminal. A capacitor is much simpler than a battery, as it can't produce new electrons -- it only stores them. In this article, we'll learn exactly what a capacitor is, what it does and how it's used in electronics. We'll also look at the history of the capacitor and how several people helped shape its progress
A: A capacitor, or cap, is an electronic component that can take up, store, and discharge electrical energy. Because they can do all that quickly, capacitors are used to filter or buffer any sudden changes in a circuit's voltage, smoothing the ensuing signal. back to top. 
And you don’t want this. By using a capacitor, the capacitor can supply power for the microcontroller in the split second that the voltage drops so that the microcontroller doesn’t restart. This way it will filter out the “noise” on the power line. This type of filtering is called “decoupling”. Using Capacitors For Filters. You can also combine capacitors and resistors to form filters that target specific frequencies. For example in an audio system you can target the high frequencies to remove them (e.g. in a sub-woofer). This is called a low-pass filter.
Capacitor is a little like battery.Capacitor and battery both store electrical energy. Capacitor has two terminals.In side the capacitor the two terminals connect to TWO metal PLATES separated by a non-conducting substance. Capacitors are energy storing devices. A capacitor is an electrical device that can store energy in the electric field between a pair of closely spaced conductors (called 'plates'). When current is applied to the capacitor, electric charges of equal magnitude, but opposite polarity, build up on each plate.
Photo: Inside, an electrolytic capacitor is a bit like a Swiss roll. The plates are two very thin sheets of metal; the dielectric an oily plastic film in between them. The whole thing is wrapped up into a compact cylinder and coated in a protective metal case. WARNING: It can be dangerous to open up capacitors. And this, if you've not guessed by now, is the energy that a capacitor stores. Its two plates hold opposite charges and the separation between them creates an electric field. That's why a capacitor stores energy.
A motor capacitor, such as a start capacitor or run capacitor (including a dual run capacitor) is an electrical capacitor that alters the current to one or more windings of a single phase AC induction motor to create a rotating magnetic field. 
Capacitors and inductors kinda work opposite of each other. While capacitors are charging in an AC sine wave, inductors are discharging, and when inductors are charging, capacitors are discharging. So, what you can do is if your load is inductive, you can add capacitors to the circuit to balance it out. 
The nonconducting dielectric acts to increase the capacitor's charge capacity. A dielectric can be glass, ceramic, plastic film, air, vacuum, paper, mica, oxide layer etc. Capacitors are widely used as parts of electrical circuits in many common electrical devices. An ideal capacitor is characterized by a single constant value, its capacitance. Capacitance is defined as the ratio of the electric charge Q on each conductor to the potential difference V between them. The SI unit of capacitance is the farad (F), which is equal to one coulomb per volt (1 C/V).
In an electronic circuit, a capacitor is shown like this: When you connect a capacitor to a battery, here's what happens: 1  The plate on the capacitor that attaches to the negative terminal of the battery accepts electrons that the battery is producing. 2  The plate on the capacitor that attaches to the positive terminal of the battery loses electrons to the battery.