Best Answer: You might see some eggs within the next week. They will usually lay an egg each day up to about 5-7 eggs. Depending on when the hen begins to incubate them in earnest (usually after the second or third egg is laid) you can expect them to begin hatching after about 15-17 days. You will need to beef up their diet and begin feeding them some soft foods. 
Ospreys are large birds of prey (55 to 58 cm long), with a wingspan from 145 to 170 cm. Their long wings have are bent at the carpal (wrist) joints. They are bright white underneath, with dark brown patches at the carpal joints and a speckled dark brown necklace. 
Osprey Facts. Breeding Age at first breeding: 3-5 years Number of eggs: Usually 3 Size of eggs (mm): 62 x 46 Incubation period: 35-42 days Fledging period: 53 days. First migration By late August or early September, the young Ospreys leave their nest sites and head south on their first migration. Juveniles. For at least two weeks after fledging, the young Ospreys return to their nest for food brought in by their parents. Usually the young stay in the area, close to the nest site, as they improve their skill in the air, before they then begin to make attempts to catch a fish for themselves.
Osprey, Pandion haliaetus, is a member of the Family Pandioninae. There is only one species of Osprey found worldwide. This fascinating raptor plunges into water for fish, the only raptor that does. Ospreys are medium-large raptor, measuring 21-24.5 inches long with a 4.5 to 6 foot wingspan. Coloration is black above and white below. The head is mostly white with a black streak through the cheeks. The underside of the wings and tail is striped black and white with a large black spot at the bend in the wing
Once a year, a kiwi lays one large egg that makes up about 15-20% of its body weight, then, 24 days later, lays another egg. The second egg is beginning to develop as soon as the first is laid. On rare occasions, a kiwi may lay a third egg. The kiwi can lay only one egg at a time, as the egg is huge. 
Eggs and incubation Female Ospreys begin to lay their eggs in late April. The eggs are beautifully blotched reddish-brown and are about the same size as a large hens’ egg. They are produced at two-day intervals: Novice breeders will usually lay two eggs; experienced pairs lay three or very occasionally four. Juveniles. For at least two weeks after fledging, the young Ospreys return to their nest for food brought in by their parents. Usually the young stay in the area, close to the nest site, as they improve their skill in the air, before they then begin to make attempts to catch a fish for themselves.
Incubation, which lasts thirty-four to forty days, begins when the first egg is laid. Subsequent eggs are laid one to three days apart, with 2-4 eggs in each clutch. The female usually takes on most of the responsibility of incubation, seldom leaving the nest except to feed. The male will take over incubation until her return.
Ospreys tend to start breeding at 3 to 7 years of age. In the first year of breeding, however, they often fail to breed successfully, and younger birds often start off with one egg, producing two the following year, and hopefully building up to a standard clutch of three. Rarely four eggs are laid, although these may not all hatch, nor all survive to fledging. Q: How far apart are the eggs laid? A: Osprey eggs are usually laid 1-3 days apart, that is with an average of two days between each, although a gap of up to 6 days has been observed, the whole clutch laid over up to 10 days. Q: How big are the eggs? A: Surprisingly, osprey eggs are only the size of a large hens or duck egg