Pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a type of tissue that has a single layer of cells arranged in a fashion that appears to be stratified, whereas transitional epithelial tissue is an elastic-like epithelial tissue that swells, contracts, and changes shape as necessary. 
Epithelial cells are the individual cells of an epithelium, which is a layer of cells forming the surface of a structure or an inner lining. For example, there is an epithel … ium lining the alimentary canal (gut), and another lining the alveoli of the lungs. Human skin also consists of epithelial cells. There are different types of epithelial cells, classified mainly on to their shape, such as columnar and cuboidal. An epithelium may have secretory cells (glands) incorporated in it, such as the mucous cells of the alveolar epithelium. An epithelial cell is one of the closely packed cells that form the epithelium (which is a membranous tissue that covers the internal area of organs and other internal surface … s of the body). 3 people found this useful.
Epithelium (epi- + thele + -ium) is one of the four basic types of animal tissue. The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells
Squamous epithelial cells are flat and are usually found lining surfaces that require a smooth flow of fluid such as your blood vessels, or lining areas that require a very thin surface for molecules to pass through, such as the air sacs in your lungs. In addition to these shapes, epithelial cells can be described as being either simple or stratified. These terms refer to how many layers are present. Simple tissue has only one layer of epithelial cells, while stratified tissue has many layers stacked on top of each other.
Epithelial cells in urine. Epithelial tissues or cells are one of the most important cells found in the human body. The skin is made up of epithelial tissues. Additionally, most of the organs and the openings in the inner body are lined with epithelial cells. Epithelial Cells in Urine – Moderate. Epithelial cells in urine are quantified as ‘few’ or ‘many’, or as ‘occasional’ or ‘moderate’. The presence of certain types of epithelial cells in urine, especially the squamous and transitional kinds are thought to be normal range which is generally 0-4 / lpf.
1 Stratified signifies two or more layers of epithelial cells. 2  By convention, a stratified epithelium is described according to the shape of cells on its free surface. 3  Regardless of whether the surface cells are squamous, cuboidal, or columnar, the underlying cells are usually cuboidal. 1 A columnar epithelium is often associated with secretion or absorption.  2 Glandular describes epithelial tissue found in glands and specialized for exocrine or endocrine secretion.  3 Transitional describes a specialized type of epithelium which lines urinary passages.
Cuboidal. Columnar. Transitional. Simple epithelium is one cell thick. Types of this is columnar, pseudostratified, cubiodal and squamous. Stratified epithelium is different to simple epithelium because its multilayered. An epithelial cell is one of the closely packed cells that form the epithelium (which is a membranous tissue that covers the internal area of organs and other internal surface … s of the body). 3 people found this useful.
Epithelial Tissue. Squamous Epithelium Simple squamous epithelium is composed of a single layer of flattened cells, and therefore its protective function is not as significant as that of other epithelial tissues (Fig. 4.1) . It is found in areas where secretion, absorption, and filtration occur. Cuboidal Epithelium Simple cuboidal epithelium (Fig. 4.2) consists of a single layer of cube-shaped cells attached to a basement membrane. This type of epithelium is frequently found in glands, such as salivary glands, the thyroid gland, and the pancreas, where its function is secretion.
Epithelial cells in urine: Types. Many varieties of epithelial cells are present across the body. However, the urinary tract is composed of three types of epithelial cells, i.e. squamous, renal tubular, and transitional cells. The squamous epithelial cells are generally located in the vagina, the outer areas of the urethra and on the skin. Epithelial Cells in Urine – Moderate. Epithelial cells in urine are quantified as ‘few’ or ‘many’, or as ‘occasional’ or ‘moderate’. The presence of certain types of epithelial cells in urine, especially the squamous and transitional kinds are thought to be normal range which is generally 0-4 / lpf.