Confidence votes 98. A longitudinal study and a cross-sectional study are methods of collecting scientific data. A longitudinal study is the method that gathers data on a subject for a particular period of time and the subject's response to particular variables. A cross-sectional study is where more than one subject is used for the collection of data at different points in time in response to particular variables. These types of studies are sometimes used to determine correlation
In studies comparing trends with time, longitudinal(panel) data have an advantage over repeated cross-sectional data because it facilitates useof methodologies, such as GEE, that separate the nuisance variation due to population-wide behavior from the variation related to trends with time. Conclusion The benefits of a longitudinal analysis over a repeated cross-sectional studyinclude increased statistical power and the capability to estimate a greater range ofconditional probabilities.
In medical research, cross-sectional studies differ from case-control studies in that they aim to provide data on the entire population under study, whereas case-control studies typically include only individuals with a specific characteristic, with a sample, often a tiny minority, of the rest of the population. An example of cross-sectional analysis in economics is the regression of money demand —the amounts that various people hold in highly liquid financial assets—at a particular time upon their income, total financial wealth, and various demographic factors.
A longitudinal study, like a cross-sectional one, is observational. So, once again, researchers do not interfere with their subjects. However, in a longitudinal study, researchers conduct several observations of the same subjects over a period of time, sometimes lasting many years. The longitudinal study design would account for cholesterol levels at the onset of a walking regime and as the walking behaviour continued over time. Therefore, a longitudinal study is more likely to suggest cause-and-effect relationships than a cross-sectional study by virtue of its scope.
Therefore, a longitudinal study is more likely to suggest cause-and-effect relationships than a cross-sectional study by virtue of its scope. In general, the research should drive the design. But sometimes, the progression of the research helps determine which design is most appropriate. To make our choice, we need to know more about the benefits and purpose of each study type. Cross-sectional study. Both the cross-sectional and the longitudinal studies are observational studies. This means that researchers record information about their subjects without manipulating the study environment.
A longitudinal study, like a cross-sectional one, is observational. So, once again, researchers do not interfere with their subjects. However, in a longitudinal study, researchers conduct several observations of the same subjects over a period of time, sometimes lasting many years. To make our choice, we need to know more about the benefits and purpose of each study type. Cross-sectional study. Both the cross-sectional and the longitudinal studies are observational studies. This means that researchers record information about their subjects without manipulating the study environment.
A longitudinal survey is a correlational research study that involves repeated observations of the same variables over long periods of time — often many decades. It is a type of observational study. Longitudinal studies are often used in psychology to study developmental trends across the life span, and in sociology to study life events throughout lifetimes or generations. Cohort studies sample a cohort, defined as a group experiencing some event (typically birth) in a selected time period, and studying them at intervals through time. Panel studies sample a cross-section, and survey it at (usually regular) intervals. A retrospective study is a longitudinal study that looks back in time.
In economics, cross-sectional studies typically involve the use of cross-sectional regression, in order to sort out the existence and magnitude of causal effects of one or more independent variables upon a dependent variable of interest at a given point in time. An example of cross-sectional analysis in economics is the regression of money demand —the amounts that various people hold in highly liquid financial assets—at a particular time upon their income, total financial wealth, and various demographic factors.
The first approach is typical of a cross-sectional study. The second requires a longitudinal study. To make our choice, we need to know more about the benefits and purpose of each study type. Cross-sectional study. Both the cross-sectional and the longitudinal studies are observational studies. This means that researchers record information about their subjects without manipulating the study environment.