Bacterial Skin Infections. Bacterial skin infections are usually caused by gram-positive strains of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus or other organisms. Common bacterial skin infections include: 1  Cellulitis causes a painful, red infection that is usually warm to the touch. Sometimes, these infections aren't associated with any symptoms but can still cause serious damage to the reproductive system. Common STDs caused by bacterial infections include: 1  Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis.
Typically an E. coli infection lasts between 24 and 72 hours. The most common symptoms with this infection are the same as any other gastrointestinal infection and include sudden and severe diarrhea. This bacteria is most likely to cause bloody diarrhea. This type of illness is usually called gastrointestinal infection. Gastrointestinal infection is quite common and isn't usually serious. Common symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramping, bloating, gas and sometimes vomiting. More serious symptoms include bloody diarrhea, fever and long-lasting diarrhea or vomiting.
The bacteria streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of acute bacterial sinusitis. This type of bacteria can be resistant to the most common types of antibiotics at standard dosages, although there are other antibiotics that can be used to treat the condition. 
Salmonellosis symptoms begin within 8 to 48 hours of consuming the bacteria. The most common symptoms include abdominal pain, chills, fever, diarrhea, muscle pain, nausea and vomiting. As with any intestinal infection, salmonella can lead to dehydration if fluids are not replaced after vomiting and bouts of diarrhea. This type of illness is usually called gastrointestinal infection. Gastrointestinal infection is quite common and isn't usually serious. Common symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramping, bloating, gas and sometimes vomiting. More serious symptoms include bloody diarrhea, fever and long-lasting diarrhea or vomiting.
2. Listeria monocytogenes-Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive rod-shaped bacterium. It is anaerobic. The most common infection that these bacteria cause is Listeriosis. Symptoms of this infection are headaches, nausea and vomiting; however, if the infection spreads to the nervous system, it can cause meningitis. Although the vast majority of bacteria are harmless to humans, some do cause serious infections and diseases. Below are some of the names of common bacteria, including their shape and function. 1. Staphylococcus aureus-Staphylococcus aureus is a Gram-positive coccus (rounded shape) that is anaerobic. Staphylococcus aureus is also known as the golden cluster seed, golden staph and the seed gold
Bacterial skin infections are the 28th most common diagnosis in hospitalized patients. 1 Cellulitis, impetigo, and folliculitis are the most common bacterial skin infections seen by the family physician. Family physicians frequently treat bacterial skin infections in the office and in the hospital. Common skin infections include cellulitis, erysipelas, impetigo, folliculitis, and furuncles and carbuncles.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staph bacteria that is resistant to certain antibiotics called beta-lactams. These antibiotics include methicillin and other more common antibiotics such as oxacillin, penicillin, and amoxicillin. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections. Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Pseudomonas infection is caused by strains of bacteria found widely in the environment; the most common type causing infections in humans is called Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Serious Pseudomonas infections usually occur in people in the hospital and/or with weakened immune systems.
Infectious diseases arranged by name. There are 216 entries in this list, though some entries such as 'Common cold' include a number of distinct pathogens. 1  Chin J. B., ed. 
Intestinal bacterial infections are most often caused by one of several possible bacteria. This type of illness is usually called gastrointestinal infection. Gastrointestinal infection is quite common and isn't usually serious. Common symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramping, bloating, gas and sometimes vomiting. More serious symptoms include bloody diarrhea, fever and long-lasting diarrhea or vomiting.