The mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) is defined as a population of cells derived from progenitor cells in the bone marrow, which differentiate to form blood monocytes, circulate in the blood, and then enter tissues to become resident tissue macrophages [ ]. Abstract. The mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) was defined as a family of cells comprising bone marrow progenitors, blood monocytes, and tissue macrophages.
Freebase (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: Mononuclear phagocyte system. The mononuclear phagocyte system is a part of the immune system that consists of the phagocytic cells located in reticular connective tissue. The cells are primarily monocytes and macrophages, and they accumulate in lymph nodes and the spleen. The mononuclear phagocyte system is part of both humoral and cell-mediated immunity. The mononuclear phagocyte system has an important role in defense against microorganisms, including mycobacteria, fungi, bacteria, protozoa, and viruses.
Medical Definition of MONONUCLEAR PHAGOCYTE SYSTEM. : a system of cells comprising all free and fixed phagocytes and especially macrophages together with their ancestral cells including monocytes and their precursors in the bone marrow—compare reticuloendothelial system. Definition of MONONUCLEAR PHAGOCYTE SYSTEM. : a system of cells comprising all free and fixed phagocytes together with their ancestral cells including monocytes and their precursors in the bone marrow —called also reticuloendothelial system. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : a system of cells comprising all free and fixed phagocytes and especially ...
The mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) (also called Reticuloendothelial System or Macrophage System) is a part of the immune system that consists of the phagocytic cells located in reticular connective tissue. The cells are primarily monocytes and macrophages, and they accumulate in lymph nodes and the spleen. Mononuclear phagocyte system and monocyte macrophage system are two different terms, often mistakenly understood as one. Reticuloendothelial system is an older term for the mononuclear phagocyte system, but it is used less commonly now, as it is understood that most endothelial cells are not macrophages.
Abstract. The mononuclear phagocyte system is made up of blood monocytes and their precursors, and two differentiated cell populations derived from them: macrophages and dendritic cells. 
mononuclear phagocyte system the group of highly phagocytic cells that have a common origin from stem cells of the bone marrow and develop circulating monocytes and tissue macrophages, which develop from monocytes that have migrated to connective tissue of the liver (kupffer's cells), lung, spleen, and lymph nodes. portal system an arrangement by which blood collected from one set of capillaries passes through a large vessel or vessels and another set of capillaries before returning to the systemic circulation, as in the pituitary gland (the hypothalamo-hypophysial portal system) or the liver (the hepatic portal circulation).
The spleen is the largest unit of the mononuclear phagocyte system. The monocyte is formed in the bone marrow and transported by the blood; it migrates into the tissues, where it transforms into a histiocyte or a macrophage. Mononuclear phagocyte system and monocyte macrophage system are two different terms, often mistakenly understood as one. Reticuloendothelial system is an older term for the mononuclear phagocyte system, but it is used less commonly now, as it is understood that most endothelial cells are not macrophages.