This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Tell your doctor about any unusual or bothersome side effect. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the Temovate (clobetasol propionate cream and ointment) Side Effects Center for a complete guide to possible side effects.
Medical Definition of CLOBETASOL. : a potent synthetic corticosteroid that is used topically in the form of its propionate C25H32ClFO5 especially to treat inflammatory skin conditions. What made you want to look up clobetasol?
It is very important that you use this medicine only as directed by your doctor. Do not use more of it, do not use it more often, and do not use it for a longer time than your doctor ordered. To do so may cause unwanted side effects or skin irritation. This medicine is for use on the skin only. 
1 Do not use clobetasol propionate on your face. 2  Unless advised to do so by your doctor, do not apply a bandage or dressing to the area being treated, as this will increase absorption of the preparation and increase the risk of side-effects. Clobetasol propionate is classed as a very potent topical corticosteroid. Topical corticosteroids are also referred to as topical steroids. Topical steroids are used in addition to moisturisers (emollients) for treating inflammatory skin conditions such as eczema and dermatitis.
A topical steroid is used when patches of eczema or dermatitis flare up. Clobetasol propionate relieves the symptoms of a flare-up by reducing inflammation, itching and redness. It is not a cure for the condition, but it will help to relieve the symptoms. Clobetasol propionate is classed as a very potent topical corticosteroid. Topical corticosteroids are also referred to as topical steroids. Topical steroids are used in addition to moisturisers (emollients) for treating inflammatory skin conditions such as eczema and dermatitis.
Clobetasol is a topical (for the skin) steroid. It reduces the actions of chemicals in the body that cause inflammation, redness, and swelling. Clobetasol topical is used to treat the inflammation and itching caused by a number of skin conditions such as allergic reactions, eczema, and psoriasis. Clobetasol topical may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Tell your doctor about any unusual or bothersome side effect. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the Temovate (clobetasol propionate cream and ointment) Side Effects Center for a complete guide to possible side effects.
Clobetasol propionate /kloʊˈbeɪtəsɒl/ is a corticosteroid of the glucocorticoid class used to treat various skin disorders including eczema and psoriasis. It is also highly effective for contact dermatitis caused by exposure to poison ivy/oak. Clobetasol belongs to US Class I (Europe: class IV) of the corticosteroids, making it one of the most potent available.
SERATIN. Clobetasol propionate (phonetic pronunciation: kloh-BAY-tuh-sall[1]) is a corticosteroid used to treat various skin disorders including eczema and psoriasis. It is also highly effective for contact dermatitis caused by exposure to poison ivy/oak. 
Clobetasol propionate is used for the treatment of various skin disorders including eczema, herpes labialis, psoriasis, and lichen sclerosus. It is also used to treat several auto-immune diseases including alopecia areata, vitiligo, lichen planus (auto immune skin nodules), and mycosis fungoides (T-cell skin lymphoma). It is also highly effective for contact dermatitis caused by exposure to poison ivy/oak. Clobetasol belongs to US Class I (Europe: class IV) of the corticosteroids, making it one of the most potent available.
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 