After you give birth, the pregnancy hormone leaves your body after about 24 hours (usually one hour, though). It's possible for certain medications to give a false positive result. If you're on any medication, google it to see if it can cause one. And be careful with birth control. Best Answer: Its unlikely to get a false positive. I think you should see your doctor to get a blood test. I got pregnant 4 months after giving birth to my first.
Getting pregnant soon after you have a baby can cause problems for you and your baby. You may find that you are overly tired and lack the energy that you need. If you are breastfeeding, your supply may tank. Of course, many women have had successful pregnancies after getting pregnant quickly after childbirth. If you are breastfeeding, the chances are small. Getting pregnant this early after giving birth isn’t terribly common, but it does happen. You need to see if you are ovulating to time intercourse. The chances of you getting pregnant will increase after your period has returned.
1. Know When You Ovulate after Childbirth. Most women experience an extended period of bleeding immediately after giving birth. The bleeding will get lighter and lighter, lasting about six weeks. It is extremely unlikely that a woman will become pregnant during this time, although it is not impossible. Immediately after giving birth, the most important thing a couple can do is to take care of their newborn baby and themselves. A woman’s body needs time to heal, and a baby needs love and affection. This initial time should be spent resting and nourishing a mother’s body with lots of water and nutritious food.
April 18, 2006 -- Babies born to women who get pregnant very quickly after having a child or wait many years between children are at greater risk for potentially serious delivery-related complications, including premature birth and low birth weight. 
pregnant 2 months after giving birth! I really can't believe this... gave birth to Carolina, my first LO on 15th June and having done the test and been to the doctor because I really couldn't quite believe it, I am pregnant for the 2nd time!! Very happy...but very scared as well!! But congrats! Ps ur really fertile after giving birth for at least 6 mOnths! It's very very easy to fall pregnant because of all the hormones etc. My mum fell pregnant again 5 weeks after having my oldest brother lol xx.
Chances are you didn’t ovulate that soon after giving birth so you are likely not pregnant. If you don’t want to get pregnant this early after having your baby, you might want to not have sex or require him to wear a condom until you can get in for your 6 week checkup and get on birth control yourself. If you are breastfeeding, the chances are small. Getting pregnant this early after giving birth isn’t terribly common, but it does happen. You need to see if you are ovulating to time intercourse. The chances of you getting pregnant will increase after your period has returned.
Having another baby might be the last thing on your mind right now. But getting pregnant too soon after giving birth can be risky for both you and your baby. Becoming pregnant again within a year of giving birth increases the chance that your new baby will be born too soon. Babies that are born too soon can have health problems. Using these methods in the early weeks after giving birth increases the risk of dangerous blood clots. Wait six weeks to use birth control with both estrogen and progestin if you delivered by c-section or have other risk factors for blood clots. These risk factors include obesity, history of blood clots, smoking, or preeclampsia. Women have many good choices for birth control after giving birth
If you're not breastfeeding, your period may start again in 6 to 8 weeks after giving birth. If you are breastfeeding, you may not start again for months. Some women don’t have a period again until they stop breastfeeding. It’s possible that you may ovulate (release an egg) before you get your period again. 
It typically takes about 14 months for a menstrual period to return. If your periods do return prior to 14 months, it is most likely that you are not actually ovulating. Regardless of whether you are breastfeeding, it is important to realize that it is completely possible to conceive soon after giving birth. If you are breastfeeding, the chances are small. Getting pregnant this early after giving birth isn’t terribly common, but it does happen. You need to see if you are ovulating to time intercourse. The chances of you getting pregnant will increase after your period has returned.