Zutons, Oxegen Festival 2006, Ireland. The Zutons have admitted that people think they are covering Amy Winehouse when their perform 'Valerie'. The song featured on the Liverpool band's 'Tired Of Hanging Around' album in 2006, after which Mark Ronson picked it for his 'Version' covers album. 
Valerie  is a song by the English indie rock band The Zutons from the band's second studio album, Tired of Hanging Around (2006). English musicians Mark Ronson and Amy Winehouse covered Valerie for Ronson's second studio album, Version (2007). Released as the album's third single on 15 October 2007, the track was originally done when Winehouse appeared on Jo Whiley 's Live Lounge show on BBC Radio 1
Mark Ronson version [edit]. English musicians Mark Ronson and Amy Winehouse covered Valerie for Ronson's second studio album, Version (2007). Released as the album's third single on 15 October 2007, the track was originally done when Winehouse appeared on Jo Whiley 's Live Lounge show on BBC Radio 1
Both the original and Mark Ronson version featured in British soap opera Emmerdale during the wedding of Eric and Val Pollard in 2008. English musicians Mark Ronson and Amy Winehouse covered Valerie for Ronson's second studio album, Version (2007). Released as the album's third single on 15 October 2007, the track was originally done when Winehouse appeared on Jo Whiley 's Live Lounge show on BBC Radio 1
Valerie  is a song written by Steve Winwood and Will Jennings and originally recorded by Winwood for his third solo album Talking Back to the Night, in 1982. The song deals with a man reminiscing about a lost love he hopes to find again someday. Will Jennings reportedly wrote the lyrics while thinking about singer Valerie Carter, whose career was declining because of drugs.
This page DID have the original 1982 version, but it changed (see the HQ Youtube video for the original). Valerie is a song written by Steve Winwood and Will Jennings and originally recorded by Winwood for his third solo album Talking Back to the Night, in 1982. The song deals with a man reminiscing about a lost love he hopes to find again someday. On its original release, the single…. Play on youtube. 
The original artist that sang Valerie is Amy Winehouse..But I remember there was a male singer too that sang it. my name is Valerie and an old boyfriend had the 45. I do remember some of the lyrics...VALERIE WITH THE LOVE LIGHT IN YOUR EYES MAY IT ALWAYS SHINE ON ME, hope this jogges a few memories...Thanks Valerie. Confidence votes 4. 
The whole song was written before I got there, so 20 minutes, max.. Valerie charted in the US for the first time in December 2010 when a version by the Glee Cast debuted at #54 on the Hot 100 after featuring in the Fox TV show. Mark Ronson recalled to Q magazine, March 2015. I really didn't know that song. 
In 1987, a remix by Tom Lord-Alge was included as a single from Winwood's compilation album Chronicles. The remixed version of Valerie climbed to number 9 on the Billboard Hot 100 in late December 1987, and also reached number 19 on the UK Singles Chart. Both versions also reached #13 on the Mainstream Rock Tracks chart. The song deals with a man reminiscing about a lost love he hopes to find again someday. Will Jennings reportedly wrote the lyrics while thinking about singer Valerie Carter, whose career was declining because of drugs.