Every day from Chicago to Cairo, more than a million people dine at Brinker International restaurants. Our guests know we ll give them a warm welcome, plus the delicious food and signature drinks they crave. But gathering around our table is about more than sharing a meal it s about sharing ideas, dreams, and memories. For more than three decades, friends and family have gathered in our restaurants to share their stories over food. And at every table in the Brinker family, new chapters are unfolding every day. We re BrinkerHeads. We re about delivering an experience people come back for.
Brinker International, Inc. (or simply Brinker) is a multinational hospitality industry company that owns Chili's and Maggiano's Little Italy restaurant chains. 1 Roberts currently serves as CEO and President of Brinker International, and President of Chili's® Grill & Bar. 2  Roberts' Brinker tenure includes his role as President of Chili's since 2009. 3  Previously, Roberts also served as Brinker's Chief Marketing Officer and President of the Maggiano's Little Italy® brand.
Headquartered 30 minutes west of Philadelphia in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, Brinker Capital is a leading independent investment management firm that has been serving clients across the country since 1987. Brinker Capital is an Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V encouraging a diverse workforce. We take pride in our employees and value the significant contributions that come from individuals with diverse backgrounds. If you are looking for a dynamic company that fosters innovation, let us hear from you.
Founded in 1975 and based in Dallas, Texas, Brinker currently owns, operates, or franchises 1,593 restaurants under the names Chili's Grill & Bar (1,549 restaurants) and Maggiano's Little Italy (44 restaurants) worldwide. 1 Roberts currently serves as CEO and President of Brinker International, and President of Chili's® Grill & Bar. 2  Roberts' Brinker tenure includes his role as President of Chili's since 2009. 3  Previously, Roberts also served as Brinker's Chief Marketing Officer and President of the Maggiano's Little Italy® brand.
1 1976: The company is renamed Chili's, Inc.. 2  1983: Norman E. Brinker takes over Chili's, Inc. and takes the company public. 3  1988: The first Romano's Macaroni Grill opens in Leon Springs, Texas. 4  1991: Chili's, Inc. is renamed Brinker International, Inc. (Brinker). 1 Roberts currently serves as CEO and President of Brinker International, and President of Chili's® Grill & Bar. 2  Roberts' Brinker tenure includes his role as President of Chili's since 2009. 3  Previously, Roberts also served as Brinker's Chief Marketing Officer and President of the Maggiano's Little Italy® brand.
Founded in 1975, Brinker produces $2.9 billion in sales and owns, operates, or franchises more than 1,600 restaurants across 30 countries and two territories under the names Chili’s® Grill & Bar and Maggiano’s Little Italy®. Our Restaurant Support Center supports both our national and international business. While the campus is beautiful, Brinker’s true pride is in our People. In fact, the Restaurant Support Center is honored to have a retention rate of 87% percent and is a proud recipient of the 2014 Global Best Practices Award!
1 1992: Brinker reaches an agreement with Pac-Am Food Concepts to expand the Chili's brand to the Far East. 2  1995: Brinker establishes a strategic partnership with Lettuce Entertain You Enterprises. 3  In August, the company completed the acquisition of Maggiano's. 1 Roberts currently serves as CEO and President of Brinker International, and President of Chili's® Grill & Bar. 2  Roberts' Brinker tenure includes his role as President of Chili's since 2009. 3  Previously, Roberts also served as Brinker's Chief Marketing Officer and President of the Maggiano's Little Italy® brand.
Company Description (as filed with the SEC). References to Brinker, the Company, we, us, and our in this Form 10-K are references to Brinker International, Inc. and its subsidiaries and any predecessor companies of Brinker International, Inc. 
Company Overview. Brinker Capital Holdings, Inc., an investment management company, provides managed account and mutual fund investment programs to individual and institutional investors in the United States. 