That’s because it determines whether the tax rate you pay on your Roth IRA contributions (today’s tax rate) is higher or lower than what you’d pay on your traditional IRA’s withdrawals in retirement. Of course, it’s hard to predict what federal and state tax rates will be 10, 20 or even 40 years from now. Roth IRAs provide no tax break for contributions, but earnings and withdrawals are generally tax-free. So with traditional IRAs, you avoid taxes when you put the money in. With Roth IRAs, you avoid taxes when you take it out
Both traditional and Roth IRAs provide generous tax breaks. But it’s a matter of timing when you get to claim them. Traditional IRA contributions are tax deductible on both state and federal tax returns for the year you make the contribution, while withdrawals in retirement are taxed at ordinary income tax rates. Roth IRAs provide no tax break for contributions, but earnings and withdrawals are generally tax-free. So with traditional IRAs, you avoid taxes when you put the money in. With Roth IRAs, you avoid taxes when you take it out in retirement.
A Roth IRA differs from traditional IRA in tax breaks; unlike the deductible contribution to a traditional IRA, a Roth IRA contribution is never deductible. Rather Roth IRA offers tax-exempt on withdrawal from the plan during retirement. One can contribute to a traditional IRA or Roth IRA or both. But the total contributions to either plan cannot exceed the person’s earned income. To summarize; In traditional IRA the tax is deductible, which means the money you deposit in your IRA isn’t taxed until you withdraw that money many years later.
The contribution limits are the same as the traditional 401(k) limits, so with the Roth 401(k) you can get much more money into the plan than into an IRA, says Dean Barber, founder and president of Barber Financial Group. A Roth 401(k) and a Roth IRA sound similar -- and they are. Contributions are made after taxes and earnings can be taken out tax-free after either five years or at age 59½. But the 401(k) version of the Roth has a couple of key differences from its IRA cousin
Roth IRA contributions are taxed (although the individual's contribution may still qualify for the Saver's Credit) but the assets in the account grow tax-free and qualified distributions are not taxed. IRA contribution limits are set by the IRS, whereas 401(k) limits are set by the employer. 401(k) contributions are taken from an employee's paychecks on a pre-tax basis, which means that payroll taxes aren't paid on them. Roth 401(k) contributions are taxable but qualified distributions are not. 
Withdrawal Rules. One major difference between traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs is when the savings must be withdrawn. Traditional IRAs require you to start taking required minimum distributions (RMDs) at age 70 1/2. Roth IRAs provide no tax break for contributions, but earnings and withdrawals are generally tax-free. So with traditional IRAs, you avoid taxes when you put the money in. With Roth IRAs, you avoid taxes when you take it out in retirement.
The main difference is when you pay income taxes on the money you put in the plans. With a traditional IRA, you pay the taxes on the back end-that is, when you withdraw the money in retirement. But, in some cases, you may escape taxes on the front end-when you put the money into the account. With a Roth IRA, it's the exact opposite. You pay the taxes on the front end, but there are no taxes on the back end. And remember, in both traditional and Roth IRAs, your money grows tax free while it's in the account. There are other differences too. While almost anyone with earned income can contribute to a traditional IRA, there are income limits for contributing to a Roth IRA. So not everyone can take advantage of them.
A: The Roth IRA was established in 1996 as the newest addition to the individual retirement accounts (IRAs) available to individuals. Its tax treatment differs greatly from most other IRAs. Contribution limits are the same as those for Traditional IRAs, but tax deductions are not available on contributions to Roth IRAs. However, age 70.5 withdrawal requirements apply. The Traditional IRA is the most common type of IRA. Millions of 401(k) and other company retirement plans are rolled over into Traditional IRAs each year when workers retire or change employers. Unlike the Roth, tax deductions for annual contributions may apply to this type of IRA when income falls below certain limit