Report Abuse. I agree with it for the most part. However, I don't think adding an extra 10 or 15 minutes is going to harm your puppy. We have a 9 month old Shepherd and we take her on about an hour walk every day. Ashton · 6 years ago
My guess is that should you ignore him he will hold it. A good rule of thumb to follow is a puppy can hold his urine 1 hour at one month, 2 hours at two months, 3 hours at 3 months, etc. One extra hour per month. I guess this could vary a bit but that is the guideline we were given when asked what to expect. 
1 The crate should be large enough so your pup can sleep, stand upright and turn around. 2  Go by your puppy's age in months to determine how long he can hold his bladder -- a 2-month-old puppy can hold his bladder for two hours. Step 1. Walk your puppy about one hour before leaving him alone. Take him outside so he can go potty and play a game of fetch so he can run and have fun. A good exercise session can help keep him calm while you're away.
A good rule of thumb is a ratio of five minutes exercise per month of age (up to twice a day) until the puppy is fully grown, i.e. 15 minutes (up to twice a day) when three months old, 20 minutes when four months old etc. Once they are fully grown, they can go out for much longer. The government recommends that we get at least 30 minutes of exercise each day and this is something that everybody can achieve, and go beyond, on a daily dog walk. Dogs' exercise needs vary according to the breed that you have but every dog should have at least one walk a day, often two.
1 If you want to confine your puppy to a crate, keep in mind that puppies under 6 months of age might not be able to control their bowels and bladders for four hours. 2  If you can't do it yourself, have a trustworthy friend or neighbor stop by to walk your puppy so he can do his business. Step 1. Walk your puppy about one hour before leaving him alone. Take him outside so he can go potty and play a game of fetch so he can run and have fun. A good exercise session can help keep him calm while you're away.
Like babies, puppies do best on a regular schedule. The schedule teaches him that there are times to eat, times to play and times to potty. Generally speaking, a puppy can control his bladder one hour for every month of age. So if your puppy is two months old, he can hold it for about two hours. 
Most adult dogs should participate in some form of physical activity for at least 30 minutes and up to two hours every day. Your puppy's genetics will determine when it's time to move her up to adult dog exercise. If she won't get any larger than 25 pounds (11 kilograms), then she can start at around 9 months. Humans need exercise to feel better, look better and live a healthy life. And the dogs in our lives are no different. Dogs are built for activity. In fact, stray cats and dogs can travel 20 to 30 miles (32 to 48 kilometers) a day.
Tips. 1  If you want to confine your puppy to a crate, keep in mind that puppies under 6 months of age might not be able to control their bowels and bladders for four hours. 2  If you can't do it yourself, have a trustworthy friend or neighbor stop by to walk your puppy so he can do his business. Step 1. Walk your puppy about one hour before leaving him alone. Take him outside so he can go potty and play a game of fetch so he can run and have fun. A good exercise session can help keep him calm while you're away.
Report Abuse. Walking a three month old puppy for an hour is too long. At this age, he is still growing-rapidly! And over-exercising him can interfere with his growth process. I would stick to short walks. No more than 15-20 minutes. 