1 libani) - grows in Lebanon, Israel, northwest Jordan, western Syria, and south central Turkey. 2  Turkish cedar or Taurus cedar (Cedrus libani subsp. stenocoma or var. 3  stenocoma) - grows in southwest Turkey. Cedrus libani is an evergreen coniferous tree growing up to 40 m (130 ft) tall, with a trunk up to 2.5 m (8 ft 2 in) in diameter. The crown is conic when young, becoming broadly tabular with age with fairly level branches.
As its name suggests, the cedar of Lebanon is native to Lebanon, where it occurs in fragmented populations in mountainous areas. It is also found in the mountains of Syria and Turkey. The variety Cedrus libani var. stenocoma occurs in south-western Turkey. The cedar of Lebanon is a monoecious species, meaning that both male and female cones are produced on the same plant. The male cones are produced in summer and shed their pollen in autumn, and the pollen is carried to the female cones by the wind.
Cedrus libani is a species of cedar native to the mountains of the Mediterranean region. Cedrus libani is an evergreen coniferous tree growing up to 40 m (130 ft) tall, with a trunk up to 2.5 m (8 ft 2 in) in diameter. The crown is conic when young, becoming broadly tabular with age with fairly level branches.
1 Lebanon cedar or cedar of Lebanon (Cedrus libani subsp. libani or var. 2  libani) - grows in Lebanon, Israel, northwest Jordan, western Syria, and south central Turkey. 3  Turkish cedar or Taurus cedar (Cedrus libani subsp. stenocoma or var. Cedrus libani is an evergreen coniferous tree growing up to 40 m (130 ft) tall, with a trunk up to 2.5 m (8 ft 2 in) in diameter. The crown is conic when young, becoming broadly tabular with age with fairly level branches.
Cedars of Lebanon State Park is situated in the eastern Central Basin approximately 15 miles (24 km) west of the eastern Highland Rim, 15 miles (24 km) east of Nashville and 20 miles (32 km) north of Murfreesboro. U.S. Route 231, which runs north-to-south, splits the state forest into eastern and western sections. Cedars of Lebanon State Park is a state park in Wilson County, Tennessee, in the southeastern United States.
The Lebanon Cedar is formally known as the Cedar of Lebanon. The ornamental tree is part of the Cedrus libani species. This specific type of cedar is native to Lebanon and other parts of the Mediterranean region, including Turkey, Palestine and Israel. Water soaked soil makes it very difficult for the roots of the Lebanon Cedar to get air, which leads to the decay. To avoid root rot, don't overwater the tree. In addition, make sure it is placed in a spot where it is exposed to full sunlight. The heat from the sun can dry wet soil and prevent root rot.
Lebanon in the Bible. An article of amazing facts about the country of Lebanon (Bordering Northern Israel) Psalm 92:12 The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree; he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.. Lebanon means the white one, probably referring to the snow-capped peaks of the Lebanon Mountains. 
The cedar of Lebanon (Cedrus libani) is a tall evergreen tree which has been prized for its high quality timber, oils and resins for thousands of years. The national emblem of Lebanon, it was famously used to build the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem, as well as the ships and temples of the Egyptian pharaohs. The cedar of Lebanon is a monoecious species, meaning that both male and female cones are produced on the same plant. The male cones are produced in summer and shed their pollen in autumn, and the pollen is carried to the female cones by the wind.
There are two distinct types of Cedrus libani that are considered to be different subspecies or varieties 1  : Lebanon cedar or cedar of Lebanon (Cedrus libani subsp. libani or var. 2  libani) - grows in Lebanon, Israel, northwest Jordan, western Syria, and south central Turkey. Cedrus libani is an evergreen coniferous tree growing up to 40 m (130 ft) tall, with a trunk up to 2.5 m (8 ft 2 in) in diameter. The crown is conic when young, becoming broadly tabular with age with fairly level branches.