The digestion of different types of foods occurs in different areas of the digestive tract. Digestion of starch begins in the mouth with the chewing of food (mastication) and the production of amylases immediately breaking down certain starches. Since the smaller sugars that come from amylase action on starch are sweeter tasting, if you hold a cracker in your mouth and swish saliva around it, you may notice the appearance of a sweeter taste. Fat digestion also begins in the mouth with the secretion of the enzyme lingual lipase by glands under your tongue. Although this enzyme doesn't do much with the food while it's in your mouth, it does move on down with the food to your stomach, where it can start to break down about 10-30% of the food's fat content
Digestion is the breakdown of food into simpler molecules that can be absorbed by the body. The digestive system is actually a long hollow tube called the gastrointestinal tract, or GI tract. The digestive system includes the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. The first task of the digestive system is to break down food into a fine pulp (mechanical digestion). When the food is physical broken down, digestive chemicals break the food down into small molecules (chemical digestion). The mouth is the organ in which the process of digestion begins.
Starch becomes glucose; amylase (enzyme breaks starch) starts in the mouth. Maltose deactivated in stomach. Pancreas secretes more amylase. Maltose ends up in small intestine. Maltose breaks it down to glucose. Complex Carbohydrate (polysaccharide). Found in plants, made up of many glucose molecules linked in straight or branched chains. Starch is broken down into glucose.
Digestion of starch begins with the action of salivary alpha-amylase / ptyalin, although its activity is slight in comparison with that of pancreatic amylase in the small intestine. Amylase hydrolyzes starch to alpha-dextrin, which are then digested by gluco-amylase (alpha-dextrinases) to maltose and maltotriose. 
Mouth. Carbohydrate digestion begins in the mouth. The salivary glands in the mouth secrete saliva, which helps to moisten the food. The food is then chewed while the salivary glands also release the enzyme salivary amylase, which begins the process of breaking down the polysaccharides in the carbohydrate food. Most carbohydrate foods contain many saccharides linked together, which are known as polysaccharides. Carbohydrate digestion begins in the mouth and is complete when the polysaccharides are broken down into single sugars, or monosaccharides, which can be absorbed by the body.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The digestion of starch starts in the mouth! When you put a potato chip on your tongue and leave it sit there for a little while it starts to dissolve! that's because it is mostly starch. In your mouth is something called salivary amylase-this breaks down amylose/starch. We need salivary amylase to break down the foods the moment they enter our mouth so that we can break down the food that gets stuck in our teeth to avoid bacteria and infection. It is digested from the mouth to the butt. Saliva starts the digestion. It is digested by enzymes called amylase (produced by the salivary glands), that turn starch into gluco … se, so that it can be easily absorbed by capillaries when the chyme (food leaving the stomach) gets to the small intestine.
Also in the mouth, an enzyme called salivary amylase begins to break down long starch molecules into maltose. Once the food is ready to be swallowed it is gathered into a ball called a bolus and sends to the part of the bolus called the pharynx. The first task of the digestive system is to break down food into a fine pulp (mechanical digestion). When the food is physical broken down, digestive chemicals break the food down into small molecules (chemical digestion). The mouth is the organ in which the process of digestion begins.
Starch is the main form of dietary, digestible carbohydrates. The process of digestion involves the breakdown of a complex molecule into the simplest form the body can use. Once the starch molecule is broken down, the small intestine transfers it into the bloodstream, where it is shuttled to the cells that need it. Starch digestion is a multi-step process that begins in the mouth. The goal of digestion is the breakdown of nutrients into their simplest, usable form by the body. Small Intestine. The small intestine is where digestion of starch starts to take action. The brush border of the small intestine releases dextrinase and glucoamylase, both of which slowly break down polysaccharides, chains of saccharide polymers, into oligosaccharides.