Privy. One who has a direct, successive relationship to another individual; a coparticipant; one who has an interest in a matter; private. Privy refers to a person in privity with another—that is, someone involved in a particular transaction that results in a union, connection, or direct relationship with another. Privies in blood are the heirs of an ancestor. To such a one He assigns a life in a general's epaulets or as a privy councillor--to such a one, I say, He assigns a life of command; whereas to another one, He allots only a life of unmurmuring toil and suffering.
An outhouse (or privy) is a small structure, separate from a main building, which covers a pit latrine or a dry toilet. Outside North America, the term outhouse refers not to a toilet but to outbuildings in a general sense. In most outhouse designs, the privy hole is covered by a small building. The primary purpose of the building is for privacy and human comfort, so that the user is not exposed and does not get wet when it is raining or cold when it is windy.
The noun PRIVY has 2 senses: 1. a room or building equipped with one or more toilets. 2. a small outbuilding with a bench having holes through which a user can defecate. Familiarity information: PRIVY used as a noun is rare. • PRIVY (adjective). The adjective PRIVY has 2 senses: 1. hidden from general view or use. 2. (followed by 'to') informed about something secret or not generally known. Familiarity information: PRIVY used as an adjective is rare. 
Clerk of the Privy Council. The Clerk of the Privy Council is the most senior non-political official in the Government of Canada, and provides professional, non-partisan advice and support to the Prime Minister on all policy and operational issues that may affect the Government of Canada. Search website. The Privy Council Office (PCO) is the hub of non-partisan, public service support to the Prime Minister and Cabinet and its decision-making structures. Led by the Clerk of the Privy Council, helps the Government implement its vision and respond effectively and quickly to issues facing the government and the country
adjective. 1  Made a participant in knowledge of something private or secret: was privy to classified information. 2  Belonging or proper to a person, such as the British sovereign, in a private rather than official capacity. Privy means something hidden. An example of privy is not being aware of the reasons for a decision. The definition of a privy is a toilet. An example of a privy is an outhouse.
Privy is an invitation-only private global network and online/mobile travel platform that enables a select group of key transpacific influencers to coordinate roving itineraries and share city insider tips in a trusted and filtered environment. Privy (noun). a partaker; a person having an interest in any action or thing; one who has an interest in an estate created by another; a person having an interest derived from a contract or conveyance to which he is not himself a party.
Privy digging is the process of locating and investigating the contents of defunct outhouse vaults. The purpose of privy digging is the salvage of antique bottles and everyday household artifacts from the past. Privy digging is a form of historical digging and is often conducted on private residential properties. Some privy vaults are less than 2 feet deep and others are more than 25 feet. They can be as narrow as 2 feet or as wide as 10 feet, particularly in urban settings where a large privy shed with multiple doors and inner compartments once stood. Some vaults are cylindrical, these are usually made of stone or brick.
adj. 1. Made a participant in knowledge of something private or secret: was privy to classified information. 2. Belonging or proper to a person, such as the British sovereign, in a private rather than official capacity. 3. Secret; concealed. n. pl. priv·ies. 1. a. An outdoor toilet; an outhouse