There are about 250 annual and perennial species of Verbena but there are only about a half dozen that are commonly cultivated. These easy to grow, long blooming plants are both heat and drought tolerant. Verbena species. Purpletop Verbena, Verbena bonariensis, is an erect, shrubby perennial that will grow to 6 ft. tall in southern regions, but only 3 ft. in the north. They produce 2-3 rounded clusters of ¼, deep purple flowers from mid-summer through fall. Self-seeds readily.
Printer Friendly Version (PDF). Verbenas are long blooming annual or perennial flowers that possess the virtues of heat tolerance and an extremely long bloom season. Many perennial verbenas are relatively short lived, but their vigor and heavy flowering make up for this defect. They do well grown as annual flowering plants also, since they bloom quickly during the first season after planting. ‘Homestead Purple’ Verbena (Glandularia canadensis), known for its long bloom season. Trailing Verbena (Glandularia canadensis; formerly Verbena canadensis): Trailing verbena is a native perennial throughout South Carolina. The plants have a low spreading form and will flower profusely all summer.
Verbena bonariensis is a tall and slender-stemmed perennial. It can grow to 6 ft (120 cm) tall and can spread to 3 ft (90 cm) wide. At maturity, it will develop a woody base. Fragrant lavender to rose-purple flowers are in tight clusters located on terminal and axillary stems, blooming from mid-summer until fall frost. Sometimes, the name Verbena brasiliensis, Brazilian verbena or Brazilian vervain, is found for this species. However, this is the result of a mix-up with V. brasiliensis, the true Brazilian verbena, which has been erroneously referred to as V. bonariaensis by several botanists.
Verbena provide a bright spot of long-lasting color along borders, in cottage gardens or trailing out of containers. Several species of plants fall under the genus Verbena. Although a few of these are annuals and need to be replanted each year, many more are perennials and come back year after year.
The search is endless for a plant which blooms profusely, tolerates heat and endures from year to year. Throughout the years we always come back to one of the showiest of perennial flowers -- the verbena. Verbena has many attributes such as heat tolerance, everblooming and enduring. However, since nothing is perfect, verbena has some faults which, if known in advance, can be avoided. Verbena is described as a genus of perennial herbs (sometimes known by the ancient name Vervain). Verbenas have been known since the most ancient times. The druids had the greatest veneration for the plant, and before gathering it offered a sacrifice to the soil.
Poor soil is acceptable for verbena growing conditions. Perennial varieties of the verbena flower are often lost when planted in soil that becomes soggy following heavy winter snow or spring rain. If you’re searching for long lasting blooms that perform during the hottest days of summer heat, consider planting the verbena flower (Verbena officinalis). Planting verbena, whether annual or perennial types, ensures summer flowers when it is planted in the sunniest and possibly driest area of the garden. If humidity is high in your area in summer, choose perennial verbena for a better summer show
Perennial Verbena Examples. Perennial verbenas do well in a wide range of U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones, but most grow best in zones 5 and above. Verbena peruviana, V. canadensis and V. tenusecta each grow as low, spreading mats. V. canadensis has several varieties in colors ranging from red to lavender. Several species of plants fall under the genus Verbena. Although a few of these are annuals and need to be replanted each year, many more are perennials and come back year after year.
Alphabetical list of all 3,000+ perennials here. Tumbling and spreading in habit, this gorgeous Verbena produces clusters of rich purple flowers throughout the entire summer. Although not hardy over a wide area, many gardeners treat this as a long-blooming annual, better than any other variety for mildew tolerance.