There are two basic types of vaccines: live attenuated and inactivated. The characteristics of live and inactivated vaccines are different, and these characteristics determine how the vaccine is used. Live attenuated vaccines are produced by modifying a disease-producing (“wild”) virus or bacteria in a laboratory. In order to produce an immune response, live attenuated vaccines must replicate (grow) in the vaccinated person. A relatively small dose of virus or bacteria is given, which replicates in the body and creates enough virus/bacteria to stimulate an immune response.
The cells may be different from the cells that cause the disease. For example cox pox antibodies attack small pox cells. You would have thought that vaccines are made of antibodies that fight against the disease that is supposed to. Vaccines are made in several ways. However, all vaccines have the same general goal: weaken the virus or bacteria in a way that allows the recipient to develop an immune respo … nse without developing any symptoms of infection. Vaccines are made using the same components that are found in the natural virus or bacteria.
A vaccine is a biological preparation that establishes or improves immunity to a particular disease. Vaccines can prevent or ameliorate the effects of infection by a pathogen. They typically contain one or more adjuvants which are used to boost the immune system. A vaccine is made from dead or weakened microbes, or parts (e.g. surface proteins of a virus) thereof. Once it enters the body, the immune system develops antibodies to it. In the case of exposure to the microbe in the future, antibodies will then fight off/destroy that microbe to prevent disease.
A vaccine is used in medicine to enhance or induce immunity to a  particular disease. It usually contains an agent that resembles the  disease-causing microorganism, and is … often made from weakened or  killed forms of the microbe or its toxins. A vaccine is made from dead or weakened microbes, or parts (e.g. surface proteins of a virus) thereof. Once it enters the body, the immune system develops antibodies to it. In the case of exposure to the microbe in the future, antibodies will then fight off/destroy that microbe to prevent disease.
The inactivated polio, hepatitis A, influenza (shot) , and rabies vaccines are made this way. Because the virus is still seen by the body, cells of the immune system that protect against disease are generated. There are two benefits to this approach: 1  The vaccine cannot cause even a mild form of the disease that it prevents. 2  The vaccine can be given to people with weakened immune systems. Use part of the virus. Using this strategy, just one part of the virus is removed and used as a vaccine. The hepatitis B and the human papillomavirus (HPV)
Vaccines are made in several ways. However, all vaccines have the same general goal: weaken the virus or bacteria in a way that allows the recipient to develop an immune response without developing any symptoms of infection. Vaccines are made using the same components that are found in the natural virus or bacteria. Process of vaccine development. People critical of vaccines often cite issues related to how a vaccine is made, such as the amount of time a vaccine has been tested, the number of people who received it, and the ingredients in the vaccines. An understanding of the vaccine development process may help alleviate some of these concerns
The diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccines are made this way. Another strategy to make a bacterial vaccine is to use part of the sugar coating (or polysaccharide) of the bacteria. Protection against infection by certain bacteria is based on immunity to this sugar coating (and not the whole bacteria). Use part of the virus. Using this strategy, just one part of the virus is removed and used as a vaccine. The hepatitis B and the human papillomavirus (HPV)
A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular disease. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing micro-organism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins or one of its surface proteins. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that licensed vaccines are currently available to prevent or contribute to the prevention and control of twenty-five infections. The terms vaccine and vaccination are derived from Variolae vaccinae (smallpox of the cow), the term devised by Edward Jenner to denote cowpox.
A vaccine is a medication, usually made from something that is or was alive, that gives immunity to a particular bacterial or viral disease. 