Definition A shell company is an entity that has no active business and usually exists only in name as a vehicle for another company’s business operations. 2 In essence, shells are corporations that exist mainly on paper, have no physical presence, employ no one and produce nothing. Introduction Shell companies are often associated with fraud. Although they are legal entities that do have a legitimate function in business operations, shell companies are also utilized by criminals to facilitate fraudulent activities. Such activities include money laundering, billing schemes, fictitious service schemes, bankruptcy fraud, tax evasion, and market manipulation
One Shell Plaza, Shell Oil Company's headquarters in Houston. Shell Oil Company is the United States-based subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell, a multinational  oil major  of Anglo-Dutch origins, which is amongst the largest oil companies in the world. Approximately 22,000 Shell employees are based in the U.S. The U.S. head office is in Houston, Texas. Shell Oil Company, including its consolidated companies and its share in equity companies, is one of America's largest oil and natural gas producers, natural gas marketers, gasoline marketers and petrochemical manufacturers.
Shell Oil Company is a 50/50 partner with the Saudi Arabian government-owned oil company Saudi Aramco in Motiva Enterprises, a refining and marketing joint venture which owns and operates three oil refineries on the Gulf Coast of the United States. Shell Oil Company, including its consolidated companies and its share in equity companies, is one of America's largest oil and natural gas producers, natural gas marketers, gasoline marketers and petrochemical manufacturers.
Shell company. A shell company is a company that exists but does not actually do any business or have any assets. The most interesting type of shell company (to investors) is one that has a listing. This is a listed shell, and is almost always what is meant by a reference to a shell in an investment context. Given that it takes time and money to obtain a listing, a listed shell has significant value even if it does not have any assets. Listed shells are therefore often the targets of reverse takeovers.
The term “shell company” is narrowly understood as a public limited company which has largely ceased its operative business but whose stock exchange listing still exists despite minimal sales turnover. If the shell company is purchased, the company’s new owner can flexibly change the corporate purpose and incorporate its own forward-thinking business potential into the company. Shell companies enable an alternative means of going public without the long-winded, complicated proceedings of the traditional IPO process.
Some shell companies may have had operations, but those may have shrunk due to unfavorable market conditions or company mismanagement. Shell corporations are not in themselves illegal, and they do have legitimate business purposes. However, they are a main component of the underground economy, especially those based in tax havens. Shell corporations have been used to commit fraud, by repeatedly creating an empty shell corporation with a name similar to existing real corporations, then running up the price of the empty shell and suddenly selling it (pump and dump).
A shell company can also mean a company that has never had a business (and certainly not a listing). In this context it often means what is also called a shelf company. These are incorporated purely to sell off-the-shelf. This is a listed shell, and is almost always what is meant by a reference to a shell in an investment context. Given that it takes time and money to obtain a listing, a listed shell has significant value even if it does not have any assets. Listed shells are therefore often the targets of reverse takeovers.
Show more usage examples... You may want to set up a shell company to be the figurehead for your business if you don't want all the attention. 11 people found this helpful. I did not want to work for the shell company because I did not like it and I knew that I would have a terrible time there. 8 people found this helpful. Some people prefer to go through a shell company when they acquire something so the government doesn't find out for tax reasons
DEFINITION of 'Shell Corporation'. A corporation without active business operations or significant assets. Shell corporations are not necessarily illegal or illegitimate, as they often serve an important for potential startups. Additionally, shell corporations can act as a tax avoidance for legitimate businesses