Uncertainty as used here means the range of possible values within which the true value of the measurement lies. This definition changes the usage of some other commonly used terms. For example, the term accuracy is often used to mean the difference between a measured result and the actual or true value.
Expanded uncertainty. quantity defining an interval about the result of a measurement that may be expected to encompass a large fraction of the distribution of values that could reasonably be attributed to the measurand. 1  The fraction may be viewed as the coverage probability or level of confidence of the interval.
An uncertainty interval (or error interval) is the   part of a measurement. It is used, along with significant digits, to indicate the precision of a measurement. Thus, in the two-significant-digit measurement 5.4 0.2 meters, the uncertainty interval is 0.2 meters. This means that the true value of the measurement is believed to lie between 5.2 meters and 5.6 meters.
The term uncertainty is preferred over measurement error because the latter can never be known [ISO, 34]. An estimate of the error in a measurement, often stated as a range of values that contain the true value within a certain confidence level (usually ± 1 s for 68% C.I.) [Taylor, 14; Fluke G-15].
1 Now, just divide the measurement and uncertainty by 10, the number of CD cases. 2  22 cm/10 = 2.2 cm and .2 cm/10 = .02 cm. 3  This means that the thickness of one CD case is 2.20 cm ± .02 cm.
The absolute uncertainty (usually called absolute error-but error connotes mistake, and these are NOT mistakes) is the size of the range of values in which the true value of the measurement probably lies. If a measurement is given as, the absolute uncertainty is 0.1 cm.
1 So, your uncertainty is ± .2 cm. 2  Let's say you measured that all of the CD cases stacked together are of a thickness of 22 cm. 3  Now, just divide the measurement and uncertainty by 10, the number of CD cases. 4  22 cm/10 = 2.2 cm and .2 cm/10 = .02 cm.
2.2.4 The definition of uncertainty of measurement given in 2.2.3 is an operational one that focuses on the measurement result and its evaluated uncertainty. However, it is not inconsistent with other concepts of uncertainty of measurement, such as.