Glucose is precious fuel for all the cells in your body when it's present at normal levels. But it can behave like a slow-acting poison. 1  High sugar levels slowly erode the ability of cells in your pancreas to make insulin. 1 The organ overcompensates and insulin levels remain too high. 2  Over time, the pancreas is permanently damaged. 3  High levels of blood sugar can cause changes that lead to a hardening of the blood vessels, what doctors call atherosclerosis.
Blood sugar level (or blood sugar concentration) is the amount of glucose (a source of energy) present in your blood at any given time. A normal blood glucose level for a healthy person is somewhere between 72 mg/dL (3.8 to 4 mmol/L) and 108 mg/dL (5.8 to 6 mmol/L). Adults. A normal blood sugar level is between 72 mg/dL and 108 mg/dL (4 to 6 mmol/L) for a healthy person. The concentration of glucose in the blood of a healthy person in the morning on an empty stomach is between 68 mg/dL and 108 mg/dL (3.8 and 6.0 mmol/L).
And it's less than 140 mg/dL 2 hours after eating. During the day, levels tend to be at their lowest just before meals. For most people without diabetes, blood sugar levels before meals hover around 70 to 80 mg/dL. For some people, 60 is normal; for others, 90. 1 The doctor tests your blood sugar level after fasting for 8 hours and it’s higher than 126 mg/dL. 2  Oral glucose tolerance test. 3  After fasting for 8 hours, you get a special sugary drink. 4  Two hours later your sugar level is higher than 200. 5  Random check.
How Blood Sugar Affects Your Body. When you have diabetes, your blood sugar (glucose) levels are consistently high. Over time, this can damage your body and lead to many other problems. 1 The doctor tests your blood sugar level after fasting for 8 hours and it’s higher than 126 mg/dL. 2  Oral glucose tolerance test. 3  After fasting for 8 hours, you get a special sugary drink. 4  Two hours later your sugar level is higher than 200. 5  Random check.
A. At present, the diagnosis of diabetes or prediabetes is based in an arbitrary cut-off point for a normal blood sugar level. A normal sugar level is currently considered to be less than 100 mg/dL when fasting and less than 140 mg/dL two hours after eating. But in most healthy people, sugar levels are even lower. During the day, blood glucose levels tend to be at their lowest just before meals. For most people without diabetes, blood sugar levels before meals hover around 70 to 80 mg/dL. In some, 60 is normal; in others, 90. 
Keep your blood sugar levels close to normal to prevent many of these complications. The American Diabetes Association's goals for blood sugar control in people with diabetes are levels of 70 mg/dL to 130 mg/dL before meals, and less than 180 mg/dL after meals. 1 The organ overcompensates and insulin levels remain too high. 2  Over time, the pancreas is permanently damaged. 3  High levels of blood sugar can cause changes that lead to a hardening of the blood vessels, what doctors call atherosclerosis.
Introduction. Hyperglycaemia (a high blood sugar level) occurs when the body can't remove glucose from the blood and turn it into energy. It usually only happens in people with diabetes. The symptoms of hyperglycaemia tend to develop over several days or weeks, and can include: 1  increased thirst. 2  a dry mouth.
The normal blood sugar range for diabetics, as determined by the American Diabetes Association, is between 70 and 130 mg/dL before meals and less than 180 mg/dL a few hours after you began eating. You can use a blood sugar monitor to check your blood glucose levels and adjust your diet or medication accordingly. 