Tips. 1  If you don't want to heat your feather just leave it in hot water. 2  Don't forget to clean and wash the feather thoroughly if you got it outside. 3  Cut the nib (the writing point) blunt(er) to make a calligraphy pen. 4  Some feathers have a membrane that must be removed after the second cut. 1 If you don't want to heat your feather just leave it in hot water. 2  Don't forget to clean and wash the feather thoroughly if you got it outside. 3  Cut the nib (the writing point) blunt(er) to make a calligraphy pen. 4  Some feathers have a membrane that must be removed after the second cut.
Find pen orientation -- Hold the feather is you would a pen. I've found that the best thing is to follow the curve so that the point curves down instead of up. When it curves up and there's a bead of ink under the nib, if the angle is too low, the bead can touch the paper and spread everywhere. 
This is a tutorial on how to make a Quill pen out of a feather. Fun and easy project and a perfect companion to my tutorials on. how to make paper and how to make a wax stamp sealer. You just. need a large feather and an inkwell. For more information you can visit the web tutorial on this project right here: http://www.stormthecastle.com/paper-m...
Feather pens are awesome! They can be used as costume props, secret message pens, make-believe toys and much more! With this instructable, I will be showing you how to make a feather pen, PLUS invisible ink to go with it! Please vote for me if you like it! 
How to Make a Feather Quill Pen. This is a tutorial on how to make a pen out of a feather just like they used to use in medieaval times. This type of pen is called a Quill. It is quite easy to do and it works quite well. You just need a turkey feather and a sharp knife. Other types of feathers work also. I also have a video tutorial for this at the bottom of the page. You don't need a whole lot of supplies other than a feather (large) and a hobby knife or x-acto knife. And when it comes time to write you need an ink well
//d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/e/eb/Make a Quill Pen out of a Feather Step 7 Version 3.360p.mp4. 8. If you want to, you can dye the feather by mixing a hair dye in a clear plastic tub, repeatedly dipping the end of the feather into the dye and gently working through before washing. 1 If you don't want to heat your feather just leave it in hot water. 2  Don't forget to clean and wash the feather thoroughly if you got it outside. 3  Cut the nib (the writing point) blunt(er) to make a calligraphy pen. 4  Some feathers have a membrane that must be removed after the second cut.
3. Let your feather dry. Let your feather air dry. If you try to use a hair dryer your feather might poof. 4. Using scissors clip the end of your feather just enough so the ink cartridge of a ball point pen can fit in. 5. Take apart your ball point pen. You will want the ink cartridge. Discard the rest of the pen. 6
Remove the pen tip and ink tube. Cut the end of the feather's shaft so that it's straight across. Insert the ink tube up the shaft of the feather. Push it up the shaft until the pen tip is at the cut end. If necessary, slit the upper portion of the shaft to make way for the tube to go all the way in. Cover any cut area with glue to seal it. Glue below the pen tip, securing the feather to the pen tip
//d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/9/99/Make a Quill Pen out of a Feather Step 3 Version 3.360p.mp4. 4. Heat some sand to 350 °F (177 °C) and leave the feather in the sand, on a heat-proof surface, until cool. This, too, is optional; it hardens the feather so you don't have to resharpen it as often. 1 If you don't want to heat your feather just leave it in hot water. 2  Don't forget to clean and wash the feather thoroughly if you got it outside. 3  Cut the nib (the writing point) blunt(er) to make a calligraphy pen. 4  Some feathers have a membrane that must be removed after the second cut.