By the end of my Philadelphia training, my long run was 22 miles with 3 x 3 miles during the second half in 18:48, 18:05, and 17:46 with a mile recovery in between each. I ran 15 miles with 8k at progressively faster than marathon pace. All of them develop strength and will help you run faster for longer. The long run: Aim to run at least 20 miles before your marathon. If you have several months before your race and you’re already in good shape, run more 20 mile runs (a 20 miler every week for a month is better than just one!).
Assess your level of fitness. Decide if you are ready to run a half marathon. 1  Before you run a half marathon, you should be able to complete a 3-mile (5 km) jog or run at least 3 times per week. 2  At the very least, you should be able to run at a steady pace for 30 minutes. 1. Lower your level of training the week before you run a half marathon. Reduce the distance of your runs to 2 to 4 miles (3.2 to 6.4 km) each, and spend less time cross training.
Just alternate a weekly 2-3 hour long, steady run with a fast finish long run during the 8-10 weeks before your marathon and you will be amazed at how your body adapts. In the long, steady runs, start at the slow end of your long run pace and run for two to two and a half hours. How to Implement. While I recommend a two-hour long, steady run virtually year round for most runners, you should not start the fast finish long runs until 8-10 weeks before the marathon. Too many of these workouts and you will peak too soon and be flat by marathon day.
In the fast finish long run, start by running just the last three to five miles fast and on each successive fast finish long run, increase the distance of the fast part so that 3-4 weeks before your marathon, you run a 20-22 miler with the last 9-12 miles at a faster and faster pace. How to Implement. While I recommend a two-hour long, steady run virtually year round for most runners, you should not start the fast finish long runs until 8-10 weeks before the marathon. Too many of these workouts and you will peak too soon and be flat by marathon day.
In this long run, you start at your normal run pace but you try to average your goal marathon pace for the last 30 to 60 minutes of the run. In most programs, I simply alternate the two types of long runs-one weekend, long, steady distance and the next, a fast finish long run. How to Implement. While I recommend a two-hour long, steady run virtually year round for most runners, you should not start the fast finish long runs until 8-10 weeks before the marathon. Too many of these workouts and you will peak too soon and be flat by marathon day.
So, a generic long run for someone who's goal marathon pace is 7:00 per mile might be that the first 12 miles of a long run will be at 7:30 to 8:00 per mile, then the pace over the last 6 miles will average 7:00 per mile with the last couple of miles at 6:15 to 6:30 pace and the last 400 meters very fast. How to Implement. While I recommend a two-hour long, steady run virtually year round for most runners, you should not start the fast finish long runs until 8-10 weeks before the marathon. Too many of these workouts and you will peak too soon and be flat by marathon day.
4. Your weekend long run (2 weeks before the marathon) should be a 12- to 14-miler at the same pace--not faster--as the previous week's 20-miler. 5. Except for the marathon-goal-pace run, all running this week should be at a relaxed pace of 11/2 to 2 minutes slower per mile than marathon goal pace. 6.
Warm up with a light jog or easy run pace for 15 to 20 minutes. Step 2. Run at your tempo pace for 30 to 60 minutes, depending on where you are in your training plan for the half marathon. Keep tempo runs short during your first weeks of training and gradually ramp up the distance or time spent running at your uncomfortable pace over the course of eight to 12 weeks. Step 3. 
You can do this by completing a fast-finish long run or running goal marathon pace intervals during the second half of the run.. More: Tips for Fast-Finish Runs. Fitzgerald says doing a shorter long run, such as 16 to 18 miles, can still be great preparation for a marathon. For example, he says to complete the last 3 to 8 miles of a long run at goal marathon pace, or run every other mile at goal marathon pace during the second half of the run.