The first cassette tape was produced in 1958 by RCA Victor. It was 5” x 7”, however it never gained popularity. The cassette tape was invented for a number of reasons. The biggest reason was that it offered an easier, more compact way then the reel-to-reel tapes that had been used up until the 1960’s. The actual product of the Compact Cassette arrived in 1964 by Phillips (under the Norelco name)
The first models of the cassette players were actually designed as dictation machines and recording devices for personal use instead of devices for music. It was only in the year 1966 when the cassette player was used as a musical device. The Mercury Record Company was the first to use and market it as such with its first line of collection of about forty nine titles. It was actually a few years later, in the year 1898 to be exact, when this idea had taken its existence. Vlademar Poulsen was the person who had invented the earlier concept of Oberlin. In 1928, Fritz Pfleumer developed the magnetic tape. But it was not that compact as how the modern cassette player was.
No doubt it was the most photographed product of that event. When the cassette was developed there were only three tapes in the world which enabled Philips to get it right, 3M's low-noise cartridge tape, KODAK's triple-play tape P 300 and BASF's PES-18. Of these only BASF tape was perfectly balanced in all its properties, in particular also the mechanical characteristics.
While the 1980s were a great decade for cassette tapes, they were also the decade that saw the beginning of digital audio when the compact audio disc (CD) was launched in 1982. The Decline. While the 1980s were a great decade for cassette tapes, they were also the decade that saw the beginning of digital audio when the compact audio disc (CD) was launched in 1982. And just as the cassette tape was not an immediate hit, neither was the CD.
Pre-recorded cassettes were a little cheaper than eight track tapes, and they were considerably smaller and more convenient. When the quality of automobile cassette players improved in the mid-1970s, more and more people abandoned the eight track. The success of the cassette as both a format for making home recordings and for listening to purchased albums came together in the 1980s. LP sales went into decline, and by about 1990 few phonograph discs were being released.
The Boombox was invented in 1975 by The Woelfel brothers. The first boom box was a box made of wood along with speakers and a car stereo system of an 8-track. The local radio station and cassettes were played by it. Later CDs were played in it in 1990s.
But the fall of the cassette was rapid. The Compact Disc, introduced in the early 1980s by Phillips and the Sony Corporation, was slowly gaining ground. Within ten years, the cassette was clearly going the way of the LP, although blank cassettes for home recording continue to be used. The success of the cassette as both a format for making home recordings and for listening to purchased albums came together in the 1980s. LP sales went into decline, and by about 1990 few phonograph discs were being released.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. cassette tape was patented in 1964 by Philips. This format was invented for its convenience and portability over bulkier reel to reel tapes. cassette tape was patented in 1964 by Philips. This format was invented for its convenience and portability over bulkier reel to reel tapes. Answer The easy answer is 60 minutes, but you probably meant length in linear inches. Cassette tapes run at 1-7/8 (1.875) inches per second. A C60 plays 30 minutes on each … side, and requires 3,375 inches, or 281.25 feet of tape.
Cassette Tapes. A Phillips Carry-Corder cassette recorder from the mid-1960s. In the 1950s, magnetic tape looked like the obvious replacement for the disc, but it fizzled. It came roaring back in the early 1960s in the form of the Phillips “Compact Cassette,” today simply called the cassette. The success of the cassette as both a format for making home recordings and for listening to purchased albums came together in the 1980s. LP sales went into decline, and by about 1990 few phonograph discs were being released.