Syphilis is a bacterial STI that is caused by the bacteria Treponema pallidum. It is generally a very rare STI, but it can cause serious and permanent damage to the body if it is not cured. In some rare cases, particularly where treatment is not available, syphilis infection can cause death. Syphilis can be cured with antibiotics. Remember, a person can reacquire syphilis infection, so their partner(s) should also be tested. Impact if not treated. Untreated Syphilis can cause potentially life-threatening complications, and permanent damage to the brain, heart, bones, and blood vessels.
Depending on the disease, STDs can be spread with any type of sexual activity. STDs are most often caused by viruses and bacteria. The following is a list of the most common STDs, their causes. Additionally, there are other infections (see STDs with asterisk mark*) that may be transmitted on occasion by sexual activity, but these are typically not considered to be STDs by many investigators: 
1 Sexually transmissible infections can be bacterial (like gonorrhea or chlamydia), viral (such as HIV, hepatitis B, warts, or molluscum), or protozoal (like trichomoniasis). 2  STIs can be bacteria, virus, protozoa, or fungus. 3  swapping of bodily fluids. 4  STDs are caused by bacteria, viruses, and protozoa. 1 Granuloma inguinale. 2  STDs are caused by the transmission of an infectious material via sexual contact. 3 
Bacterial STIs-STDs. Bacterial STIs are caused by bacteria passed from person-to-person during sexual activity. There are three infections in this category: Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, and Syphilis. Syphilis can be cured with antibiotics. Remember, a person can reacquire syphilis infection, so their partner(s) should also be tested. Impact if not treated. Untreated Syphilis can cause potentially life-threatening complications, and permanent damage to the brain, heart, bones, and blood vessels.
Chlamydia is a disease caused by the bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis. It is most commonly sexually transmitted. Chlamydia can infect the penis, vagina, cervix, anus, urethra, eye, or throat. 1  Chlamydia Symptoms, Test & Treatment. 2  Chlamydia In-Depth. 3  Chlamydia Blog. 4  Pictures of Chlamydia. Bacterial STDs are curable through treatment with antibiotics. Curable, that is, as long as you see a health-care provider, get tested and treated, follow through on all the medication, avoid sexual contact until cured, and make sure your sexual partner(s) get tested and treatment as well.
Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) that can infect both men and women. It can cause infections in the genitals, rectum, and throat. It is a very common infection, especially among young people ages 15-24 years. 
1 STDs are caused by the transmission of an infectious material via sexual contact. 2  Sexually transmissible infections can be bacterial (like gonorrhea or chlamydia), viral (such as HIV, hepatitis B, warts, or molluscum), or protozoal (like trichomoniasis). 3  STIs can be bacteria, virus, protozoa, or fungus. 1 Granuloma inguinale. 2  STDs are caused by the transmission of an infectious material via sexual contact. 3
The Std Chlamydia. Definition: Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted disease caused by the bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis. The family of Chlamydia viruses has three members that normally affect human beings, but only C. trachomatis produces genital infections. This particular bacterial std disease can cause inflammation of the urethra, cervix, fallopian tubes, rectum or pharnyx (throat) in women, and urethra, prostate, rectum and pharnyx in men. This std has an oral version and a genital version; obviously the oral version is the one that causes throat inflammation
A sexually transmitted infection (STI) is the infection, the entering of the bacterium, virus, or parasite into the human body (host). When symptoms appear it is called a sexually transmitted disease (STD) . A person may have no symptoms and have an STI, while a person with an STD can't (STDs have symptoms). 