Kinetic art has its origins in the late 19th century impressionist artists such as Claude Monet, Edgar Degas, and Édouard édouard manet who originally experimented with accentuating the movement of human figures on. canvas Apparent movement is a term ascribed to kinetic art that evolved only in the 1950s. Art historians believed that any type of kinetic art that was mobile independent of the viewer has apparent movement.
Ancient Greek sculpture represents one of the most influential artistic movements in the history of art. The statues created by the ancient Greeks in the Classical and Hellinistic ages provided the foundation not only for Roman sculpture, but also for western sculpture as we know it today. Of course Greek sculpture is not necessarily a movement, but rather an art form that developed over 1000 years. Archaic period (8th to early 5th century BC). The first period of Greek sculpture was heavily influenced by the works of the ancient Egyptians. There was an emphasis on creating perfection in human form. 
By the 1960s, most art critics believed that Calder had perfected the style of object mobiles in such creations as the Cat Mobile (1966). In this piece, Calder allows the cat’s head and its tail to be subject to random motion, but its body is stationary. Apparent movement is a term ascribed to kinetic art that evolved only in the 1950s. Art historians believed that any type of kinetic art that was mobile independent of the viewer has apparent movement.
This term also clashes frequently with the term apparent movement, which many people use when referring to an artwork whose movement is created by motors, machines, or electrically powered systems. Both apparent and virtual movement are styles of kinetic art that only recently have been argued as styles of op art. Apparent movement is a term ascribed to kinetic art that evolved only in the 1950s. Art historians believed that any type of kinetic art that was mobile independent of the viewer has apparent movement.
There is also a portion of kinetic art that includes virtual movement, or rather movement perceived from only certain angles or sections of the work. Apparent movement is a term ascribed to kinetic art that evolved only in the 1950s. Art historians believed that any type of kinetic art that was mobile independent of the viewer has apparent movement.
Key Characteristics of Dada Art. 1  Dada began in Zurich and became an international movement. 2  Or non-movement, as it were. 3  Dada had only one rule: Never follow any known rules. 4  Dada was intended to provoke an emotional reaction from the viewer (typically shock or outrage). About the only thing these non-artists all had in common were their ideals. They even had a hard time agreeing on a name for their project. Dada - which some say means hobby horse in French and others feel is just baby talk -- was the catch-phrase that made the least amount of sense, so Dada it was.
Pop Art was the art of popular culture. It was the visual art movement that characterised a sense of optimism during the post war consumer boom of the 1950's and 1960's. It coincided with the globalization of pop music and youth culture, personified by Elvis and the Beatles. 1 Pop Art coincided with the globalization of Pop Music and youth culture. 2  Pop Art included different styles of painting and sculpture but all had a common interest in mass-media, mass-production and mass-culture. 3  Although Pop Art started in Britain, it is essentially an American movement.
1 Pop Art was a brash, young and fun art movement of the 1960's. 2  Pop Art coincided with the globalization of Pop Music and youth culture. 3  Pop Art included different styles of painting and sculpture but all had a common interest in mass-media, mass-production and mass-culture. 1 Pop Art coincided with the globalization of Pop Music and youth culture. 2  Pop Art included different styles of painting and sculpture but all had a common interest in mass-media, mass-production and mass-culture. 3  Although Pop Art started in Britain, it is essentially an American movement.
Futurism (Italian: Futurismo) was an artistic and social movement that originated in Italy in the early 20th century. It emphasized speed, technology, youth and violence and objects such as the car, the aeroplane and the industrial city. Futurism is an avant-garde movement founded in Milan in 1909 by the Italian poet Filippo Tommaso Marinetti.