The cost of keeping a horse varies widely depending on where you live and the level of service your stable provides. Simple pasture boarding can cost as little as $100 a month. However, stable boarding can cost $500 or more. If you plan to keep your horse on your own land, you’ll also need to consider whether the property is adequately equipped. First, you'll need about two acres of good pasture per horse for grazing. But the purchase price is just one part of the cost of a horse. In fact, the cost of owning a horse can range dramatically depending on the breed, age and disposition of your horse, where you live, where you plan to keep the horse and what type of work you plan to do with the horse.
In the event of injury or illness, there may be substantial additional costs. For example, a horse with colic which requires treatment at a horse clinic can cost between $1000 and $5000 (depending on how severe the colic is and whether surgery is required). Depending on the specific circumstances, your horse insurance policy may cover some or all of the costs. So, before committing to a horse, make sure you can afford to support it. Over 10 years. $20, 400 to $112,200. As an example, if you pay $3000 for a horse, the costs of keeping the horse over 10 years is 7 to 37 times the cost of buying it.
Wormers, such as daily feed through and rotational worming kits, also reduce the chance of re-infection by decreasing the number of worm larvae in the horse's feces and subsequently, the pasture. 
The aim of targeting is to only worm your horse when they require worming. We do this by taking worm egg counts from a sample of your horse’s dung. There is a cost for this but in the long term for horses that only require 1-2 worming treatments a year the overall cost is actually less. Everyone will admit that horses MUST be wormed regularly over the warmer months, but there is an increasing problem of resistance to horse wormers-a study in the UK and Europe found worm resistance on 82% of yards to the wormer active ingredient ‘Fenbendazole’, which is in many brands of wormer.
This usually costs around $25 or $30. Add in shoeing, and you could pay $80 to $100 every two months. Routine medical care is an additional cost of owning a horse and includes vaccinations, de-worming and annual teeth cleaning. For a healthy horse, this can cost as little as $300 a year. But the purchase price is just one part of the cost of a horse. In fact, the cost of owning a horse can range dramatically depending on the breed, age and disposition of your horse, where you live, where you plan to keep the horse and what type of work you plan to do with the horse.
1 An online retailer such as HorseHealthUSA.com specializes with horse dewormer medicines and the price range for their products can be anywhere from $3 to $48. 2  Their products include daily dewormers to pastes as well as herbal dewormers that can cost more. 1 Allivet.com shows that the price for horse dewormers vary depending on the type of medicine purchased. 2  They sell medications such as oral gels and tablets with varying prices from $4 to $42.
It has been shown in surveys that most owners worm their horses frequently enough to prevent a significant worm burden developing. However, it would seem that often the decision as to which wormer to use is made on the basis of advertising or cost. 
Corrective shoeing, of course, will be much higher. Horses are continuely plagued by intestinal parasites and need worming every 2 months. The cost is $13 each worming, each horse. Semi-annual vaccinations for tetanus, influenza, rhinopneumonitis, etc. are approximately $35 per horse twice per year. Currently a single bale of hay is $15 to $20 depending on the season and type of hay. A horse eats about one and a half bales per week or 2% of their optimum body weight per day. The monthly cost of hay per horse is approximately $100 to $120. Supplements such as grain, bran and psyllium can be as much as $25 per month per horse. Some horses require special supplements such as glucosomine for arithritic conditions and this can add $40 extra per horse needing it per month
Initial Costs. Depending on the current price of horsemeat, it can cost between $200 and $500 to save a horse that is on its way to the slaughter house. Initial veterinary care upon arrival at Lifesavers including physical exam, worming, dental exam and vaccinations is ususally no less than $100, and often times more. Currently a single bale of hay is $15 to $20 depending on the season and type of hay. A horse eats about one and a half bales per week or 2% of their optimum body weight per day. The monthly cost of hay per horse is approximately $100 to $120. Supplements such as grain, bran and psyllium can be as much as $25 per month per horse. Some horses require special supplements such as glucosomine for arithritic conditions and this can add $40 extra per horse needing it per month