In the message window, on the Message tab, in the Include group, click Attach Item. Do one of the following: Point to Business Card, and then click Other Business Cards. Click a contact, and then click OK. To select multiple contacts, press and hold CTRL as you click each contact. Click Calendar. Attach a file to a message. Create a message, or for an existing message, click Reply, Reply All, or Forward. In the message window, on the Message tab, in the Include group, click Attach File. Browse to and click the file that you want to attach, and then click Insert. Tip When composing a message, you can also attach files by using the commands on the Insert tab in the Include group, or drag files from folders on your computer and drop them on the message window. Top of Page
1 Word adds an email header to the document. 2  Type the email address of the recipient on the To line, or select the email address from your Address Book. 3  Type a subject for the email message on the Subject line. 4  Click Send a Copy if you want to send the document as the email body. 1 Type a subject for the email message on the Subject line. 2  Click Send a Copy if you want to send the document as the email body. 3  Or, click Send if you want to send the document as an attachment.
Attach an Outlook item to a message. You can attach Outlook items, such as other email messages, tasks, contacts or calendar items, to a message. This is the easiest way to forward multiple items or messages. Create a message, or for an existing message, click Reply, Reply All, or Forward. Attach a file to a message. Create a message, or for an existing message, click Reply, Reply All, or Forward. In the message window, on the Message tab, in the Include group, click Attach File. Browse to and click the file that you want to attach, and then click Insert. Tip When composing a message, you can also attach files by using the commands on the Insert tab in the Include group, or drag files from folders on your computer and drop them on the message window. Top of Page
1 Go to the Insert tab of the message's toolbar. 2  Click Attach File. 3  In Outlook 2000-2003: 4  Select Insert | File from the menu. 5  Use the file selection dialog to locate the file you want to attach. 6  Click on the down arrow on the Insert button. 7  Select Insert as Attachment. 1 In Outlook 2000-2003: 2  Select Insert | File from the menu. 3  Use the file selection dialog to locate the file you want to attach. 4  Click on the down arrow on the Insert button. 5  Select Insert as Attachment. 6  Compose the rest of the message as usual and eventually send it.
Mail. On Apple's built-in Mail app, create a new email message by clicking the New Message icon. In the new message window, click the paperclip icon to add an attachment. From the drop-down folder browsing window, navigate to and select the file(s) you wish to attach and then click the Choose File button. You should then see your file(s) added to the body of your email message. 1 Click on the menu item with a paperclip icon that says Attach a file or something similar (e.g., Attach Files). 2  Browse through your computer's folders and click to select the files/folders you want to attach. 3  In most cases, you can select multiple files by holding down the CTRL key while clicking on each file.
1 Then click on the Attach File menu item (it has a paper clip icon beside it). 2  In the new file browser window, navigate to the folder that has the file or files you wish to attach and click on the file to select it. 3  Click the Insert button and you should then see the file in a new Attached: line in your email. 1 Click on the menu item with a paperclip icon that says Attach a file or something similar (e.g., Attach Files). 2  Browse through your computer's folders and click to select the files/folders you want to attach. 3  In most cases, you can select multiple files by holding down the CTRL key while clicking on each file.
Send an Attachment with Yahoo! Mail Classic. To send any file as an attachment with an email in Yahoo! Mail Classic. 1  While composing a message, follow the Attach Files link. 2  Select Browse to select the file you want to attach on your computer. 3  Click Attach Files. To attach a single file to a message you are composing in Yahoo! Mail. 1  While composing your message, click Attach File in its toolbar. 2  Find and open the desired file.