SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. 
Safe Storage. Fresh, raw chicken can be stored in its original wrap for up to two days in the coldest part of the refrigerator. However, freeze chicken immediately if you do not plan to use it within two days after purchasing. You can freeze most chicken in its original packaging safely for up to two months; if you plan to freeze it longer, consider double-wrapping or rewrapping with freezer paper, aluminum foil or plastic wrap.
While storing chicken in the freezer, you must have wondered, how long can you safely freeze chicken safely, without any fear of spoilage. The answer to that question depends on whether you are storing cooked chicken or raw chicken. You can freeze uncooked or raw chicken pieces for up to 9 months in the refrigerator. If it is a whole chicken you are freezing, then you can freeze it up to a year without it spoiling. Minced chicken can be stored in the freezer for about 3 months. Well the answer is about 4 months. Cooked chicken like stews and soups can also be frozen and then stored in the freezer for about 2 to 3 months. Cooked chicken has a greater possibility of spoiling and contamination. It is best not to freeze cooked chicken for long periods of time.
Wondering how long can you store cooked chicken? Well the answer is about 4 months. Cooked chicken like stews and soups can also be frozen and then stored in the freezer for about 2 to 3 months. Cooked chicken has a greater possibility of spoiling and contamination. It is best not to freeze cooked chicken for long periods of time.
A whole chicken can keep up to a year in the freezer. Frozen chicken parts can last up to 9 months. But that will depend on how good the freezer is at maintaining temperature and how well the chicken is packaged for freezing. Make sure the chicken is packed securely and air-tight. Use packaging designed for freezing. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 7 people found this useful.
Before you put meat in the freezer, you should always write the date on it -- that way you don't have to question how long it's been frozen. And, believe it or not, some meats can last in the freezer for up to one year. 1  Cooked poultry -- 4 months. 2  Uncooked poultry parts -- 9 months. 3  Uncooked whole poultry -- 12 months. 4  Cooked meat -- 2 to 3 months. 
There is little change in nutrient value of chicken during freezer storage. For optimal quality, however, a maximal storage time in the freezer of 12 months is recommended for uncooked whole chicken, 9 months for uncooked chicken parts, 3 to 4 months for uncooked chicken giblets, and 4 months for cooked chicken. As long as the chicken is sealed tightly to prevent freezer burn, it should be fine to eat. We often stock up on chicken whenever it's on sale at the store. Keeping it in the freezer is a great way to store it for future use. We have never had spoiled or freezer burnt chicken before
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 