Polystyrene is a petroleum-based plastic made from the styrene monomer. Most people know it under the name Styrofoam, which is actually the trade name of a polystyrene foam product used for housing insulation. 1 The use of hydrocarbons in polystyrene foam manufacture releases the hydrocarbons into the air at ground level; there, combined with nitrogen oxides in the presence of sunlight, they form tropospheric ozone -- a serious air pollutant at ground level.
Share on Facebook. That's the question posed by one of our readers. Styrofoam is a DOW Chemical Company brand name version of 'expanded polystyrene' or EPS. Plastic foams in general can be described as 'engineered air', and are up to 97% air by volume.
Stacey. Getting rid of polystyrene We get all the out of date fruit from the local fruit shop every saturday to fed to the pigs. Lately they'e been sending it out in polystyrene boxes about 24in x 24 in. We now have about 30 of these boxes and no clue as to how to dispose of them properly and responsibly. You can make something very like napalm out of it... But it would be MUCH better to find someone who can recycle it properly. The snag is that as expanded polystyrene is more air than anything else it can be difficult to get anyone to take it. Nick. You need to contact Expanded Polystyrene Recycling, an International body dedicated to the removal of EPS from your neighbourhood! And, actually, I appear not to be joking
Unfortunately many kerbside recycling programs don’t accept polystyrene and given its bulk, it can be difficult to store. Also, polystyrene is often recycled to be used in single use products; such as more packing material, so it’s really important to get the word out about recycling this form of packaging. You can learn more about this option here. Sell it! – If polystyrene is something you get a lot of; you might be able to make a few bucks from it. The Recycled Plastic Markets Database allows you to search for buyers of a wide variety of plastics. I was aiming for 10 tips; so I’m a few short :).
Waste polystyrene mold blocks can be carved for making crafts; but, if all you want is to be rid of it in the most responsible way you can, here are some ideas. Recycling has to be a community effort to have economic sustainability. A municipal entity or polystyrene producer has to sponsor it in other words. Styrofoam is a DOW Chemical Company brand name version of 'expanded polystyrene' or EPS. Plastic foams in general can be described as 'engineered air', and are up to 97% air by volume.
COMMON BRAND NAME(S): Kayexalate, Kionex, Marlexate. USES: This medication is used to treat a high level of potassium in your blood. Too much potassium in your blood can sometimes cause heart rhythm problems. Sodium polystyrene sulfonate works by helping your body get rid of extra potassium. HOW TO USE: Take this medication by mouth, or use it rectally as directed by your doctor. If you are taking this medication by mouth, take it usually 1 to 4 times a day as directed by your doctor.
A cup of acetone is enough to dissolve an entire bean bag worth of styrofoam beads! Styrofoam is made up of polystyrene foam. When the polystyrene dissolves in the acetone, the air in the foam is released, causing it to look like you're dissolving this massive quantity of material into a small volume of liquid. You can see a less-dramatic version of the same effect by dissolving other polystyrene items in acetone. Dissolving Styrofoam or another polystyrene product in acetone is a spectacular demonstration of the solubility of this plastic in an organic solvent, plus it illustrates just how much air is in the Styrofoam.
USES: This medication is used to treat a high level of potassium in your blood. Too much potassium in your blood can sometimes cause heart rhythm problems. Sodium polystyrene sulfonate works by helping your body get rid of extra potassium. 