Kaden /ka-den/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Kaden is companion. Also possibly refers to a swamp in Old German, or to an Old English word meaning round. Mainly used as a modern name with many variations. Kaden is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#40465 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kaden for boy
You can rustle up an Irish origin for Caden, but this name's popularity is about pure sound. You simply cannot get a more fashionable set of phonemes, and the nickname Cade is a winner too. But an entire classroom of rhyming boys is a real risk here. Caden, meet Hayden, Aidan, Jadon, and Braeden.... 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kaden and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kaden and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Kaden are: The meaning of the name “Kaden” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Kaden's origin is Celtic and Arabic, and its use, English. Kaden is a variant form of the English Caden. Kaden is also a variant form of the English and Arabic Kadin. Kaden is popular as a baby boy name. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. At the modest height of its usage in 2006, 0.217% of baby boys were named Kaden.
Arabic Meaning: The name Kaden is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Kaden is: Companion. American Meaning: The name Kaden is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaden is: Companion. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
-- Anonymous User 2/20/2007. Kaden, spelled with the letter K, comes from the Arabic name Khaden/Khadin. Since Arabic uses a completely different alaphabet than English, this spelling is one of the American variant translations of the original Arabic name. 
In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kade is: From the wetlands. Scottish Meaning: The name Kade is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Kade is: From the wetlands. American Meaning: The name Kade is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kade is: From the wetlands. 
What does Kaden mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kaden is of American origin. The meaning of Kaden is fighter. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is companion and English origin, where its meaning is little battle. 
The meaning of Kaden has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kaden are: 1  African meaning: The prophet's wife. 2  Arabic meaning: Companion. The different meanings of the name Kaden are: The meaning of the name “Kaden” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.