When using HTTPS, as opposed to plain HTTP, there exists an extra layer which is used for authentication. This extra layer uses SSL (Secure Sockets Layer), or the newer TLS (Transport Layer Security) which is an adaptation of SSL*. Note: You should always ensure you are using a HTTPS connection when providing sensitive information to a website. * SSL was originally developed by the engineers at Netscape Communications Corporation, with SSL 2.0 being publicly released in 1995 (SSL 1.0 was never released into the mainstream).
When a trusted SSL Digital Certificate is used during a HTTPS connection, users will see a padlock icon in the browser address bar. When an Extended Validation Certificate is installed on a web site, the address bar will turn green. All communications sent over regular HTTP connections are in 'plain text' and can be read by any hacker that manages to break into the connection between your browser and the website. This presents a clear danger if the 'communication' is on an order form and includes your credit card details or social security number.
HTTPS pages typically use one of two secure protocols to encrypt communications-SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) or TLS (Transport Layer Security). Both the TLS and SSL protocols use what is known as an 'asymmetric' Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) system. All communications sent over regular HTTP connections are in 'plain text' and can be read by any hacker that manages to break into the connection between your browser and the website. This presents a clear danger if the 'communication' is on an order form and includes your credit card details or social security number.
For the obsolete and little-used Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol (S-HTTP), see Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol. HTTPS (also called HTTP over TLS, HTTP over SSL, and HTTP Secure) is a protocol for secure communication over a computer network which is widely used on the Internet. However, HTTPS signals the browser to use an added encryption layer of SSL/TLS to protect the traffic. SSL/TLS is especially suited for HTTP since it can provide some protection even if only one side of the communication is authenticated.
These error messages, also called HTTP status codes are response codes given by Web servers and help identify the cause of the problem. For example, 404 File Not Found is a common HTTP status code. It means the Web server cannot find the file you requested. The file -- the webpage or other document you try to load in your Web browser -- has either been moved or deleted, or you entered the wrong URL or document name. Knowing the meaning of the HTTP status code can help you figure out what went wrong. HTTP: A Stateless Protocol. HTTP is called a stateless protocol because each command is executed independently, without any knowledge of the commands that came before it. This is the main reason that it is difficult to implement Web sites that react intelligently to user input.
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP, the protocol over which data is sent between your browser and the website that you are connected to. The 'S' at the end of HTTPS stands for 'Secure'. It means all communications between your browser and the website are encrypted. HTTPS is often used to protect highly confidential online transactions like online banking and online shopping order forms. All communications sent over regular HTTP connections are in 'plain text' and can be read by any hacker that manages to break into the connection between your browser and the website. This presents a clear danger if the 'communication' is on an order form and includes your credit card details or social security number.
HTTPS (HTTP over SSL or HTTP Secure) is the use of Secure Socket Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TLS) as a sublayer under regular HTTP application layering. HTTPS encrypts and decrypts user page requests as well as the pages that are returned by the Web server. To explore how HTTPS is used in the enterprise, here are some additional resources for learning about HTTPS and Web page security: Enabling HTTPS in J2EE Web components: The HTTPS protocol is a valuable security feature for J2EE Web components.
HyperText Transfer Protocol. HTTP is a communication protocol used on the Internet to transfer or exchange hypertext. It has been in use on the World Wide Web since around 1990 and refers to a client-server protocol, by which two computers can communicate over a network connection. Note: You should always ensure you are using a HTTPS connection when providing sensitive information to a website. * SSL was originally developed by the engineers at Netscape Communications Corporation, with SSL 2.0 being publicly released in 1995 (SSL 1.0 was never released into the mainstream).
Strictly speaking, HTTPS is not a separate protocol, but refers to use of ordinary HTTP over an encrypted SSL/TLS connection. Everything in the HTTPS message is encrypted, including the headers, and the request/response load. However, HTTPS signals the browser to use an added encryption layer of SSL/TLS to protect the traffic. SSL/TLS is especially suited for HTTP since it can provide some protection even if only one side of the communication is authenticated.