Best Law Schools. Ranked in 2015 | Best Law Schools Rankings Methodology. A career in law starts with finding the school that fits you best. With the U.S. News rankings of the top law schools, narrow your search by location, tuition, school size and test scores. For full rankings, LSAT scores and employment statistics, sign up for the U.S. News Law School Compass! Get the U.S. News Law School Compass and start finding the law school that's right for you.
Law schools in the U.S. issue the Juris Doctor degree (J.D.), which is a professional doctorate, and for most practitioners a terminal degree. Other degrees that are awarded include the Master of Laws (LL.M.) and the Doctor of Juridical Science (J.S.D. or S.J.D.) degrees, which can be more international in scope. Most law schools are colleges, schools, or other units within a larger post-secondary institution, such as a university.
After years of steady declines, the number of law school applicants is slowly starting to rise again. For students interested in obtaining a J.D., finding the right school is essential to having a great law career. See images of the programs that landed a top 20 spot in the 2016 U.S. News Best Law Schools rankings. Next: 20 (tie). 
Law schools in this list are categorized by whether they are currently active, proposed, or closed; within each section they are listed in alphabetical order by state, then name. Most of these law schools grant the Juris Doctor degree, which is the typical first professional degree in law in the United States. Law schools are nationally accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA), and graduates of these schools may generally sit for the bar exam in any state. There are 203 ABA accredited law schools, divided between 200 with full accreditation and 3 with provisional accreditation.
Joining Harvard among top law schools in the US are Yale University (ranked 4 th in the world for law), New York University (5 th), Stanford University (6 th), the University of Chicago (9 th) and University of California, Berkeley (10 th). Top law schools in Europe. Outside of the UK, the largest numbers of leading law schools in Europe are claimed by Germany, which has 11 universities featured in this year’s law ranking, and the Netherlands, with 9 universities featured. Like Canada, both have three entries within the global top 50.
Stanford, CA. Full Law Schools Rankings ». Students interested in pursuing a legal career can find a wide range of options among the law schools accredited fully by the American Bar Association. U.S. News factors in data on reputation, LSAT scores, job placement success and more when ranking the top law schools. 
Also claiming three top law schools is Japan, with the University of Tokyo (31 st in the world rankings) and Kyoto University (36 th in the world rankings) both ranked within the top 50 worldwide. Another region with a strong representation in the law school rankings is Europe, with 27 entrants from the UK alone. Of this number, eight UK universities rank in the world’s top 50 for law, with a further five in the top 100.
Other notable law schools in Europe include Belgium’s Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (ranked 26 th in the world for law) and France’s Universite Université paris 1-Pantheon (panthéon sorbonne). 27 th in terms of, Overall representation spain fares well with nine entries in the, top 200 As does italy. with seven Top law schools in Europe. Outside of the UK, the largest numbers of leading law schools in Europe are claimed by Germany, which has 11 universities featured in this year’s law ranking, and the Netherlands, with 9 universities featured. Like Canada, both have three entries within the global top 50.
In the United States, most law schools require a bachelor's degree, a satisfactory undergraduate grade point average (GPA), and a satisfactory score on the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) as prerequisites for admission. Other degrees that are awarded include the Master of Laws (LL.M.) and the Doctor of Juridical Science (J.S.D. or S.J.D.) degrees, which can be more international in scope. Most law schools are colleges, schools, or other units within a larger post-secondary institution, such as a university.
Top law schools in Canada. Canadian universities also have a strong presence in the law ranking, with three law schools in Canada ranked within the world’s top 50: the University of Toronto (21 st), McGill University (33 rd) and University of British Columbia (36 th). Top law schools in Europe. Outside of the UK, the largest numbers of leading law schools in Europe are claimed by Germany, which has 11 universities featured in this year’s law ranking, and the Netherlands, with 9 universities featured. Like Canada, both have three entries within the global top 50.