You're just too good to be true. Can't take my eyes off you. You'd be like heaven to touch. I wanna hold you so much. At long last love has arrived. And I thank God I'm alive. You're just too good to be true. Can't take my eyes off you. Pardon the way that I stare. There's nothing else to compare. The sight of you leaves me weak.
Submit Corrections Cancel. You're just too good to be true. Can't take my eyes off of you. You'd be like heaven to touch. I wanna hold you so much. At long last love has arrived. And I thank God I'm alive. You're just too good to be true. Can't take my eyes off of you. I love you, baby, and if it's quite alright. I need you, baby, to warm a lonely night. I love you, baby, trust in me when I say. 
Can't Take My Eyes Off You  is a 1967 single by Frankie Valli. The song was among Valli's biggest hits, earning a gold record and reaching #2 on the Billboard Hot 100 for a week, stuck behind  Windy  by The Association. It was Valli's biggest solo hit until he hit #1 in 1974 with  My Eyes Adored You . Can't Take My Eyes Off You has had a major cultural impact, with hundreds of cover versions, many of which have been on the charts themselves in different countries.
Additional information. Can't Take My Eyes Off You was originally performed by Frankie Valli (The Four Seasons) in 1967, and made it to #2 on the US charts. Muse performed their version live on BBC Choice's Re:Covered and both Christopher Wolstenholme and Dominic Howard did backing vocals. Can't Take My Eyes Off You was originally performed by Frankie Valli (The Four Seasons) in 1967, and made it to #2 on the US charts
The Valli version was also used by NASA as a wake-up song for a mission of the Space Shuttle, on the anniversary of astronaut Christopher Ferguson. The title is a shortened version of the composers' title of Can't Take My Eyes Off of You, which has led to long-term confusion over the song's title. The song is also sometimes known I Love You, Baby, after the most prominent line in its chorus. It was Valli's biggest solo hit until he hit #1 in 1974 with  My Eyes Adored You . Can't Take My Eyes Off You has had a major cultural impact, with hundreds of cover versions, many of which have been on the charts themselves in different countries.
Can't Take My Eyes Off You, written by Bob Crewe and Bob Gaudio, was a 1967 single by Frankie Valli. Also featured on. +3 other releases. Can't Take My Eyes Off You, written by Bob Crewe and Bob Gaudio, was a 1967 single by Frankie Valli. The song was among Valli's biggest hits, reaching #2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and earning a gold record.
Oh pretty baby, don’t bring me down, I pray, oh pretty baby, Now that I’ve found you, stay, and let me love you, baby, let me love you. You’re just too good to be true, can’t take my eyes off of you. You’d be like heaven to touch, I wanna hold you so much. At long last love has arrived, and I thank God I’m alive. You’re just too good to be true, can’t take my eyes off of you.
You're just too good to be true Can't keep my eyes off of you You feel like heaven to touch I wanna hold you so much At long last love has arrived And I thank God I'm alive You're just too good to be true Can't take my eyes off of you. Can't Take My Eyes Off You was originally performed by Frankie Valli (The Four Seasons) in 1967, and made it to #2 on the US charts.