190 Followers. A. Total knee replacement surgery is considered for patients whose knee joints have been damaged by progressive arthritis, trauma, or other rare destructive diseases of the joint. The most common reason for knee replacement in the United States is severe osteoarthritis of the knees. Regardless of the cause of the damage to the joint, the resulting progressively increasing pain and stiffness and decreasing daily function lead the patient to consider total knee replacement. Decisions regarding whether or when to undergo knee replacement surgery are not easy.
Knee replacement surgery is most commonly performed in people with advanced osteoarthritis and should be considered when conservative treatments have been exhausted. Total knee replacement is also an option to correct significant knee joint or bone trauma in young patients. Knee replacement, or knee arthroplasty, is a surgical procedure to replace the weight-bearing surfaces of the knee joint to relieve pain and disability. It is most commonly performed for osteoarthritis, and also for other knee diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis.
Total knee replacement surgery is considered for patients whose knee joints have been damaged by either progressive arthritis, trauma, or other rare destructive diseases of the joint. The most common reason for knee replacement in the United States is severe osteoarthritis of the knees. Regardless of the cause of the damage to the joint, the resulting progressively increasing pain and stiffness and decreasing daily function lead the patient to consider total knee replacement.
A. The following are the signs if you already need a knee replacement surgery: a) If the pain in the knee keeps you awake at night, or causes you to wake up when you roll over. If this persists, for more than a couple of days you should consult your doctor
Who Shouldn’t Have Knee Replacement Surgery. Although knee replacement is a common surgery, it is not for everyone. For example, you should not have a knee replacement if you have an infection of the knee, a severe nerve disorder, or severe blood vessel disease. If you would like to consider knee replacement surgery, ask your doctor to refer you for evaluation to an orthopaedic surgeon, a doctor specially trained to treat problems with the bones and joints. The surgeon must consider many factors before recommending knee replacement.
Although your age is an important factor, the decision to have a joint replacement is based on your disability—how much pain you're in and how much your joint problems limit your activities. It may be time to consider knee or hip replacement if one or more of the following statements apply to you: It is possible to wait too long. According to a study by Canadian researchers, waiting until joint problems have severely limited your function may lessen the benefit you get from knee or hip replacement. 1 Pain keeps you from walking or bending over. 2  Pain doesn't stop when you rest. 3  You can't bend or straighten your knee, or your hip is so stiff that you can't lift your leg. 4  You are suffering severe side effects from the medications for your joint symptoms.
A unicompartmental knee replacement is sometimes used instead of a total knee replacement when only one side of the knee has been damaged by osteoarthritis. Unicompartmental knee replacements involve smaller incisions, less bleeding, quicker recovery, and less bone loss than a total knee replacement. An artificial knee is not a normal knee, nor is it as good as a normal knee. The operation will provide pain relief for at least ten years. If replacement provides you with pain relief and if you do not have other health problems, you should be able to carry out many normal activities of daily living.
The decision to have knee replacement surgery is one you must make with your doctor and your family. If you would like to consider knee replacement surgery, ask your doctor to refer you for evaluation to an orthopaedic surgeon, a doctor specially trained to treat problems with the bones and joints. The surgeon must consider many factors before recommending knee replacement.