On Wednesday, May 15, 2013 Ryan from saint Anthony, Idaho passed the private pilot airplane Written Exam with a score of 87% and left this comment, Thanks to this site and my great instructer. I passed with a decent score! I will be back here for my commercial..
The FAA Instrument Rating Airplane (IRA) knowledge exam consists of a test with 60 multiple choice questions drawing from a bank of hundreds of possible questions. The allotted time for the Instrument Rating Airplane knowledge exam is 2 and a half hours and the minimum passing score is 70.
On Wednesday, June 12, 2013 Ben from Sequim, WA passed the Private Helicopter Written Exam with a score of 95% and left this comment, I studied for a few months and went through the private pilot test prep a few times before taking a few tests here and a few with my CFI.
We’ve been doing this for long enough to recognize the challenges associated with the FAA exam and have included many solutions in our course to alleviate common problems. So far, our students have enjoyed a 99% pass rate with an average passing score of 87%.
With a minimum of time and cost, YOU can ACE your FAA Private Pilot knowledge (written) test using our GroundSchool software and apps. GroundSchool features up-to-date, actual FAA questions and FAA-emulating questions.
On Monday, May 13, 2013 Carlos from California passed the Private-Airplane Written Exam with a score of 97% and left this comment, Thank you for helping me pass the FAA exam with a pretty darn good grade. This website is awesome,.
On Friday, December 05, 2014 John from Grants Pass, Oregon passed the Private Pilot Airplane Written Exam with a score of 87 and left this comment, This site is a tremendous help in preparing for the exam. Thanks so much.
Weather you are preparing for the Private Pilot Test, the instrument written or the commercial written Pilot Training Solutions’ entire mission and purpose is to help you conquer the FAA knowledge test.
Private Pilot Requirements. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requires a minimum of forty flight hours to obtain a private pilot's license. However, in reality the national average flight time as a student pilot is approximately 71 hours.
On Wednesday, November 16, 2011 freefall2 from Florida passed the private Written Exam with a score of 90% and left this comment, Great way to practice for the FAA test. Only took about 15 minutes to do the actual FAA test after doing the practice tests here.