Solar power is energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical energy. Solar energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source available, and the U.S. has some of the richest solar resources in the world. 
Solar Energy Glossary. The solar glossary contains definitions for technical terms related to solar power and photovoltaic (PV) technologies, including terms having to do with electricity, power generation, and concentrating solar power (CSP). A B C D E F G H I J K L M. solar cooling — The use of solar thermal energy or solar electricity to power a cooling appliance. Photovoltaic systems can power evaporative coolers (swamp coolers), heat-pumps, and air conditioners.
photovoltaic-thermal (PV/T) system — A photovoltaic system that, in addition to converting sunlight into electricity, collects the residual heat energy and delivers both heat and electricity in usable form. Also called a total energy system or solar thermal system. solar cooling — The use of solar thermal energy or solar electricity to power a cooling appliance. Photovoltaic systems can power evaporative coolers (swamp coolers), heat-pumps, and air conditioners.
Solar power is the use of the sun’s energy either directly as thermal energy (heat) or through the use of photovoltaic cells in solar panels and transparent photovoltaic glass to generate electricity. Standard photovoltaic solar panels are the most efficient application of photovoltaics. Concentrated solar power uses multiple lenses or reflectors to collect more of the sun’s thermal energy. Thermal energy collected through the day is typically applied to oil or molten salts that retain heat to boil water for steam turbine generators throughout the night.
Energy is the ability to do work, and 'solar' is a Latin word for the sun. So, we can define solar energy as energy obtained from the sun. We can put this energy to work for us in many ways, from heating water and living spaces within our homes to generating electrical energy. Solar energy also does other kinds of work that is more indirect. Plants use the sun's energy through the process of photosynthesis to grow, and, more indirectly, we eat plants like fruits and vegetables to provide our bodies with energy.
Heat or Thermal energy: The energy radiated to Earth from the sun is called thermal or heat energy and is the same energy form as boiling water. For example, boiling water possesses thermal energy, which is the collective, kinetic and potential energy of the vibrating molecules in the water. 
The solar energy definition above mentions how energy from the sun is transported to earth through the form of solar radiation. Photons contained in this solar radiation makes the generation of electricity from the suns rays possible. Solar electricity relies upon man-made devices such as solar panels or solar cells in order to provide a source of clean, and low cost renewable energy. We have used energy from the sun to provide electricity for many years, in the form of solar cell calculators and other small, low energy consuming devices
Solar energy is radiant light and heat from the Sun harnessed using a range of ever-evolving technologies such as solar heating, photovoltaics, solar thermal energy, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis. 
Solar power is energy from the sun. Solar is the Latin word for sun and it's a powerful source of energy. Without it, there will be no life. Solar energy is considered as a serious source of energy for many years because of the vast amounts of energy that is made freely available, if harnessed by modern technology.