You've probably experienced muscle twitches after working out at least once in your life. It could be a tic in your biceps, or maybe one of your calves starts jerking and trembling. Muscle twitches are typically more of an annoyance than anything, and they'll stop as abruptly as they started.
In general, more severe muscle twitching results from serious causes. Minor twitching results from less serious lifestyle-related causes. The common, less serious causes of muscle twitching include: 1  exercise. 2  stress and anxiety. 3  caffeine and other stimulants. This condition is fairly common, and symptoms usually go away after a couple of days. There are also less common and more serious causes of muscle twitching. These medical conditions and illnesses are often related to your nervous system. They may damage the nerves connected to your muscles, leading to
It sounds like you may be having an isolated muscle twitch, especially if the twitching does not make your whole arm move or tremor. Isolated muscle twitches are very common, and they are usually caused by fatigue or muscle exertion. 
Most of the time, muscle twitching that is occasional and not persistent is not a big medical problem, as it is usually brought out by fatigue or stress, or it may be associated with too much caffeine intake or another drug side effect. 
Muscle twitching, also known as muscle fasciculation, is marked by small muscle contractions in the body. Your muscles are composed of fibers, tissues, and nerves. When a nerve is stimulated or damaged, it may cause your muscle fibers to twitch. Many twitches experienced in your body are common and may go unnoticed. However, other types of twitching may be a sign of a nervous system condition and should be checked out by your doctor. This condition is fairly common, and symptoms usually go away after a couple of days. There are also less common and more serious causes of muscle twitching. These medical conditions and illnesses are often related to your nervous system. They may damage the nerves connected to your muscles, leading to
However, involuntary muscle twitches are not all fasciculations, and any non-fasciculation muscle twitch is almost certainly a bad sign. Fibrillation, for example, can be confused with fasciculation, but fibrillation indicates that the surrounding muscle fibers have completely lost their nerve supply. Of course, it's not that easy to tell if you have a magnesium deficiency; the effects are mostly vague, stuff like hyperexcitability, muscle weakness, and sleepiness, as well as, um, fasciculations. So make sure to eat high-magnesium foods like leafy greens, nuts, and wheat bran.
Why do muscles twitch. When we experience involuntary muscle contraction and relaxation, it is known as a muscle twitch. A muscle twitch is the result of an electronic impulse sent to that particular muscle by a nerve that is out of voluntary control for the moment at least. Muscle fasciculation can exhibit in different forms and in different degrees, but the most common form of the phenomenon is twitching of the eyelids. Diabetics may experience involuntary muscle twitches due to the effect of insulin, but there are other drugs as well, which are known to affect the nervous system in such a way that certain muscles begin to twitch.
Muscles exhausted from manual exercise are often subject to muscle twitches. As the muscle loses all energy in it, you will lose direct control over that muscle temporarily and thus involuntary nerve signals responsible for muscle twitches, may act. Diabetics may experience involuntary muscle twitches due to the effect of insulin, but there are other drugs as well, which are known to affect the nervous system in such a way that certain muscles begin to twitch.
Muscle twitches are often short-lived. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Muscular twitches, also known as fasciculations, are typically harmless, common and short-lived. Time is typically the solution to minor muscle twitches--most resolve themselves within a couple of days. Rarely, muscular twitches are symptomatic of a medical disorder and require medical attention and intervention. 