Any abusive, violent, coercive, forceful, or threatening act or word inflicted by one member of a family or household on another can constitute domestic violence. Domestic violence, once considered one of the most underreported crimes, became more widely recognized during the 1980s and 1990s. domestic violence. n. the continuing crime and problem of the physical beating of a wife, girlfriend or children, usually by the woman's male partner (although may be female violence against a male). It is now recognized as an anti-social mental illness.
To better understand all of the ways that an abuser can use power and control over a victim, you can check out what is called the Power and Control Wheel.. Domestic violence happens to people of all ages, races, ethnicities, and religions. It occurs in both opposite-sex and same-sex relationships. A person's gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation does not determine whether s/he can be a victim of domestic violence or an abuser. There is some evidence that shows that boys who grow up with domestic violence in the home may become abusers as adults; however, many abusers are from non-violent homes, and many boys from violent homes do not grow up to be abusive.
Reality: Domestic violence affects us all. It is a community issue, and outside support is one of the most vital resource for a survivor. Domestic violence is also a crime. 1  Myth: Domestic violence is an uncommon problem. Reality: Domestic violence is blind to ethnicity, race, social class and education levels. There are abusers and victims from all walks of life. Abusers can be respected members of their community, seen by many on the outside as charming and amiable people. 1  Myth: Domestic violence is the woman's fault.
Definition of Domestic Violence. According to the United States Department of Justices Office on Violence Against Women, the definition of domestic violence is a pattern of abusive behavior in any relationship that is used by one partner to gain or maintain control over another intimate partner. 
Definition. Domestic violence and emotional abuse are behaviors used by one person in a relationship to control the other. Partners may be married or not married; heterosexual, gay, or lesbian; living together, separated or dating. Examples of abuse include: 1  name-calling or putdowns. 
Those who have studied domestic violence believe that it usually occurs in a cycle with three general stages. First, the abuser uses words or threats, perhaps humiliation or ridicule. Next, the abuser explodes at some perceived infraction by the other person, and the abuser's rage is manifested in physical violence. domestic violence. n. the continuing crime and problem of the physical beating of a wife, girlfriend or children, usually by the woman's male partner (although may be female violence against a male). It is now recognized as an anti-social mental illness.
Shares & Saves. Save. Domestic Violence occurs when one person in the intimate relationship tries to hoard control over the other by using destructive behaviors that may include physical assaults, sexual abuse, stalking and emotional abuse. While victims may be either male or female, most victims of domestic violence are women. Dominance. According to the Violence Wheel created by the Domestic Violence Project, abusers often act like they need to be in complete power, and expect partners to obey their demands without question. They may dictate orders and treat partner as servants.