Defining ethical consumerism. Ethical consumerism can be defined as the practice of purchasing products and services produced in a way that minimises social and/or environmental damage, while avoiding products and services deemed to have a negative impact on society or the environment. 
Ethical consumerism. Ethical consumerism is a type of consumer activism that is based on the concept of dollar voting. It is practiced through 'positive buying' in that ethical products are favoured, or 'moral boycott', that is negative purchasing and company-based purchasing. The term ethical consumer, now used generically, was first popularised by the UK magazine the Ethical Consumer, first published in 1989. Ethical Consumer magazine's key innovation was to produce 'ratings tables', inspired by the criteria-based approach of the then emerging ethical investment movement.
The Ethical Consumer Research Association is a not-for-profit workers' co-operative founded in the UK in 1988 to provide information on the companies behind the brand names and to promote the ethical use of consumer power which provides an online searchable database under the name Corporate Critic or Ethiscore. The report measures the market size and growth of a basket of 'ethical' products and services, and valued UK ethical consumerism at GBP 36.0 billion (~ USD 54.4 billion) in 2008, and GBP 47.2 billion (USD 72.5 billion) in 2012.
This essay considers what we mean by the term ‘ethical consumption’, offers the context for the rise of the associated movement, discusses ethical consumer practices, and analyses the political limits and potential of ethical consumption. Another important context for the ethical turn in mainstream consumer markets has been the increased focus within popular media culture on the impacts and risks of capitalist modernity, particularly in relation to the environment (Lewis 2008).
But there is a backlash, as consumers have started to turn on those companies, forcing them to adapt. That’s what we mean by ethical consumerism: making socially-oriented choices through consumer activity. For example, purchasing clothing made by domestic, union-staffed factories, rather than clothes made in a Bangladeshi sweatshop, staffed by children. In fact, you could make the argument that ethical consumerism is overhauling the business world in a large way, even as you read this. Just take a look at what happened in Indiana, as business powers and consumers threatened mass boycotts unless a discriminatory law was taken off the books.
The not-for-profit Ethical Consumer Research Association continues to publish Ethical Consumer magazine and its associated website, which provides free access to ethical ratings tables. The report measures the market size and growth of a basket of 'ethical' products and services, and valued UK ethical consumerism at GBP 36.0 billion (~ USD 54.4 billion) in 2008, and GBP 47.2 billion (USD 72.5 billion) in 2012.
And this concept is at the very root of ethical consumerism. Wikipedia defines ethical consumerism as: …buying things that are made ethically. Generally, this means without harm to or exploitation of humans, animals or the natural environment. I find this to be a somewhat narrow definition, really, as ethics are a highly personal matter. As the ethical movement has grown, a number of companies have tried to position themselves as green, some with more success than others. Going forward it is imperative that businesses create a clear plan of how to re-adjust to meet consumer demand or risk being left behind.
An ethical consumer looks for products which, above all, are both friendly to the environment and also to the people who produce them. An ethical consumer is therefore aware of the consequences of production, consumption and disposal. An ethical consumer looks for products which, above all, are both friendly to the environment and also to the people who produce them-DISAGREE-ETHICAL CONSUMERS LOOK FOR COMPANIES WHO MEET THESE CRITERIA, NOT PRODUCTS
It is practiced through 'positive buying' in that ethical products are favoured, or 'moral boycott ', that is negative purchasing and company-based purchasing. The term ethical consumer, now used generically, was first popularised by the UK magazine the Ethical Consumer, first published in 1989. Ethical Consumer magazine's key innovation was to produce 'ratings tables', inspired by the criteria-based approach of the then emerging ethical investment movement. The report measures the market size and growth of a basket of 'ethical' products and services, and valued UK ethical consumerism at GBP 36.0 billion (~ USD 54.4 billion) in 2008, and GBP 47.2 billion (USD 72.5 billion) in 2012.
2) behaviour: Even if the ethical consumer is not in the market for the company's products, s/he may defend the ethical company against negative publicity eg accounting scandals, sweatshop practice rumors, antitrust cases. An ethical consumer looks for products which, above all, are both friendly to the environment and also to the people who produce them-DISAGREE-ETHICAL CONSUMERS LOOK FOR COMPANIES WHO MEET THESE CRITERIA, NOT PRODUCTS. An ethical consumer is therefore aware of the consequences of production, consumption and disposal.