Processor. A processor, or microprocessor, is a small chip that resides in computers and other electronic devices. Its basic job is to receive input and provide the appropriate output. While this may seem like a simple task, modern processors can handle trillions of calculations per second. The central processor of a computer is also known as the CPU, or central processing unit.. This processor handles all the basic system instructions, such as processing mouse and keyboard input and running applications.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Vjain1008. Confidence votes 13. A process is an instance of running a program. If, for example, three people are running the same program simultaneously, there are three processes there, not just one. 
Process. 1. A process refers to a set of instructions currently being processed by the computer processor. For example, in Windows you can see each of the processes running by opening the Processes tab in Task Manager. Windows Processes are Windows Services and background programs you normally don't see running on the computer. 
Process. A process is a program that is running on your computer. This can be anything from a small background task, such as a spell-checker or system events handler to a full-blown application like Internet Explorer or Microsoft Word. All processes are composed of one or more threads. 
process management-Computer Definition. The execution and monitoring of repeatable business processes that have been defined by a set of formal procedures. See BPM and knowledge-driven process management. 
Part of the Microprocessors glossary: A processor is the logic circuitry that responds to and processes the basic instruction s that drive a computer. The term processor has generally replaced the term central processing unit (CPU). The processor in a personal computer or embedded in small devices is often called a microprocessor. quad-core processor. - A quad-core processor is a chip with four independent units called cores that read and execute central processing unit (CPU) instructions such as add, move data, and branch.
Definition. Microchip implanted in a CPU's hard drive that processes instructions sent to it by the computer and software programs. Processors come in a number of sizes and are manufactured by such corporations as Intel and Advanced Micro Devices. 
Process. A process is a program that is running on your computer. This can be anything from a small background task, such as a spell-checker or system events handler to a full-blown application like Internet Explorer or Microsoft Word. All processes are composed of one or more threads. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a process is the actions happening while something is happening or being done. 1  An example of process is the steps taken by someone to clean a kitchen. 2  An example of process is a collection of action items to be decided on by government committees.