CPT Assistant January 1996 states CPT code 45385, Colonoscopy, flexible, proximal to splenic flexure; with removal of tumor(s), polyp(s), or other lesion(s) by snare technique, most accurately describes the removal of the entire polyp using a cold biopsy forceps.
For either a colonoscopy or EGD procedure, if one lesion is biopsied and a separate lesion is removed during the same operative session, code both the biopsy of the lesion and the removal of the separate lesion. Append a -59 modifier to the biopsy procedure if it is unbundled in the CCI unbundling edits. 3.
The latest Medicare guidance for the situation where a colonoscopy is scheduled as a screening procedure but a polyp is removed and/or a biopsy is taken, is to not bill the G-code for a screening study but bill the appropriate CPT codes for the procedure(s) performed (45385, 45380-59, etc.).
For removal of two colon polyps from the sigmod colon, one by snare technique and the other by hot biopsy technique, both 45385 and 45384 can be reported for the same encounter because two separate lesions were removed by two different techniques.
The technique is the same and the service is reported with code 45380 regardless of the final histology of the piece of tissue obtained for analysis. Colonoscopy with removal by snare technique, 45385, should not be used for a report describing the removal of a small polyp by biopsy or cold forceps technique.
The lesion or tissue removal technique easiest to identify in the operative report is the snare technique, represented by code 45385, Colonoscopy, flexible, proximal to splenic flexure; with removal of tumor(s), polyp(s), or other lesion(s) by snare technique.
3. Don't get tripped up by cold v. hot snare. For colonoscopy procedures performed involving biopsies and/or the removal of a polyp using the cold biopsy forceps method, bill the 45380 CPT code once for any of the following situations: 1  The physician takes a single biopsy or multiple biopsies of lesions.
The key term in using this code is “snare” removal. Hot snare, cold snare, monopolar snare and bipolar snare should all be reported with code 45385. CPT 45384 is Colonoscopy, flexible, proximal to the splenic flexure; with removal of tumor(s), polyp(s), or other lesion(s) by hot biopsy forceps or bipolar cautery.
If a biopsy is performed on the same lesion that is removed only the code for the removal is reported. In this instance the polyp was removed using cold biopsy forceps. According to January 2004 CPT Assistant removal by cold biopsy forceps is reported with code 45380.