A baseball begins with a small, spherical core of cork and rubber encased in thin layers of rubber. Hundreds of yards of wool yarn are machine-wound around this core, followed by more than a hundred yards of white cotton twine. 
A baseball is a ball used in the sport of the same name, baseball. Some are wrapped in a plastic-like covering. A significant characteristic of the baseball is the stitching that holds together the covering of the ball. After a ball has been pitched, these raised stitches act like wings on a plane, catching the wind and causing the ball to swerve slightly on its way to the catcher.
Materials. All baseballs used by Major League Baseball consist of the same materials. An inner core is made of rubber-coated cork and then surrounded by three layers of wool yarn and a winding of cotton or polyester yarn. This core is then coated in latex adhesive or rubber cement and covered with cowhide. Today China produces around 80 percent of baseballs on the world market. However, all baseballs used by the Major League Baseball are produced by the company Rawlings. Their factory is located in Costa Rica.
A baseball. A baseball is a ball used in the sport of the same name, baseball. The ball features a rubber or cork center, wrapped in yarn, and covered, in the words of the Official Baseball Rules with two strips of white horsehide or cowhide, tightly stitched together.. Some are wrapped in a plastic-like covering. A significant characteristic of the baseball is the stitching that holds together the covering of the ball. After a ball has been pitched, these raised stitches act like wings on a plane, catching the wind and causing the ball to swerve slightly on its way to the catcher.
Answer   An official baseball is manufactured through a process of wrapping yarn around a cork or rubber center and then tightly stitching a bird stuff or horsehide cover … ed over the yarn of stick. A baseball is a sphere that is approximately 9 inches (23 cm) in circumference and weighs 5 1/4 ounces (149 g). 
The baseball's outer cover is made of Number One Grade, alum-tanned full-grained cowhide, primarily from Midwest Holstein cattle. Midwest Holsteins are preferred because their hides have a better grain and are cleaner and smoother than those of cattle in other areas of the United States. In 1872, the modern standard for the baseball's weight and size was established. The production of balls became more consistent during the remainder of the decade, thanks largely to the demands made on manufacturers by the newly formed National League, the first professional baseball league.
Such uniformity was nonexistent in the early years of baseball's history, when balls were either homemade or produced on a custom-order basis as a sideline by cobblers, tanners and other small business owners. In 1872, the modern standard for the baseball's weight and size was established. The production of balls became more consistent during the remainder of the decade, thanks largely to the demands made on manufacturers by the newly formed National League, the first professional baseball league.
20 Jan, 2013 what are 0. A baseball is the ball used in the game that shares the same name. A baseball is a round shaped ball, but is not a perfect sphere, and is most commonly white in color. It also features a red raised seam, made of 108 double stitches, which allows the pitcher to impart spin on the ball. Horsehide was once used for major league balls, but cowhide is used today. There are 4 layers of yarn used on a baseball. The first layer is gray woolen yarn, the second and third are three-ply woolen yarn and the final is white cotton-polyester yarn.
A baseball is made out of a round shaped center made of rubber or cork. This material is then wrapped tightly in yarn (string) and is wrapped with a plastic or leather cover. Horsehide was once used for major league balls, but cowhide is used today. There are 4 layers of yarn used on a baseball. The first layer is gray woolen yarn, the second and third are three-ply woolen yarn and the final is white cotton-polyester yarn.
Answer   An official baseball is manufactured through a process of wrapping yarn around a cork or rubber center and then tightly stitching a bird stuff or horsehide cover … ed over the yarn of stick. A baseball is a sphere that is approximately 9 inches (23 cm) in circumference and weighs 5 1/4 ounces (149 g). That's an impact of around 170mph!   The stitching on a baseball is done in a precise and consistent manner in order to allow for a consistent movement of a pitched ball. The spin (or lack there of) on a baseball is what makes the ball 'fly' like it does.