1 In a large pot bring 4 cups of water to a boil on medium heat, add 2 tablespoons of salt and cardoons. 2  Cook for 10 minutes or until tender and drain. 3  Chop cardoons finely by hand or use a food processor. 4  Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a pan, add minced garlic and saute for 2 minutes. Yogurt and cardoon dip has a distinct flavor and even though it may take some time and effort to prepare cardoons it is definitely worth it. Luckily, a few days later I was able to find cardoons that are a good substitute for kangar in John's Farm, an Italian vegetable market.
Kangar is the state capital of Perlis, Malaysia. It has a population of 48,898 and an area of 2,619.4 ha. It is located in the northernmost point of Peninsular Malaysia and is situated by the Perlis River. The center of Kangar is Sena Province, which is referred to by few locals as 'Uptown Sena'. The town is the smallest state capital in Malaysia and its inhabitants are mostly farmers and civil servants. It is believed that the name Kangar was derived from a species of hawk named Kangkok or Spizaetus Limnaetu
Perlis is the smallest state in Malaysia. It lies at the northern part of the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia and has the Satun and Songkhla Provinces of Thailand on its northern border. It is bordered by the state of Kedah to the south. The formal name is Perlis without Indera Kayangan. It was called Palit (Thai: ปะลิส) by the Siamese when it was under their influence. Perlis had a population of 227,025 as of 2010. The capital of Perlis is Kangar, and the Royal capital is Arau. Another important town is Padang Besar, at the Malaysia–Thailand border. The main port and ferry terminal is at the small village of Kuala Perlis, linking mostly to Langkawi Island
Kangar is the end of all domestic bus lines in Malaysia before crossing to Thailand. Most notable company is Transnasional Berhad, the largest bus company in Malaysia. There are also companies that go to and from as far as Melaka in the south and Kelantan in the east. 1 There are two KFC chain store in Kangar, one is located at Jalan Bukit Lagi and another one is located opposite Kayangan Square at Jalan Penjara, which is opened 24 hour. 2  Secret Recipe, 275! 3  Jalan Baru, Taman Pengkalan Asam, 01000, Kangar.
Popular attractions in KangarGua Cenderawasih · See more Dataran Dato Sheikh Ahmad · See more Mess Pegawai Kanan Polis,Jalan Raja Muda,Kangar,Perlis · See more See morepopular attractions in Kangar. 
1 Then add the chopped cardoons and saute lightly for 5-7 minutes. 2  Add a pinch of salt and pepper. 3  Let cool. 4  Combine yogurt and cardoon garlic mixture together, taste and adjust the seasoning. 5  Place borani in a serving bowl and garnish with dried mint. Yogurt and cardoon dip has a distinct flavor and even though it may take some time and effort to prepare cardoons it is definitely worth it. Luckily, a few days later I was able to find cardoons that are a good substitute for kangar in John's Farm, an Italian vegetable market.
Nightlife in Kangar is nonexistent. Shops close well before 10pm but the Kayangan Square stays open until 10pm. However, you can always join the locals at coffee shop or mamak stall (mostly located at Persiaran Jublee Emas) to have a local drink. 1 There are two KFC chain store in Kangar, one is located at Jalan Bukit Lagi and another one is located opposite Kayangan Square at Jalan Penjara, which is opened 24 hour. 2  Secret Recipe, 275! 3  Jalan Baru, Taman Pengkalan Asam, 01000, Kangar.
1 To prevent discoloration place the cardoons in a bowl of water and juice of two large lemons for ten minutes. 2  In a large pot bring 4 cups of water to a boil on medium heat, add 2 tablespoons of salt and cardoons. 3  Cook for 10 minutes or until tender and drain. 4  Chop cardoons finely by hand or use a food processor. Yogurt and cardoon dip has a distinct flavor and even though it may take some time and effort to prepare cardoons it is definitely worth it. Luckily, a few days later I was able to find cardoons that are a good substitute for kangar in John's Farm, an Italian vegetable market.
1 Situated just opposite the bus terminal. 2  There are two KFC chain store in Kangar, one is located at Jalan Bukit Lagi and another one is located opposite Kayangan Square at Jalan Penjara, which is opened 24 hour. 1 There are two KFC chain store in Kangar, one is located at Jalan Bukit Lagi and another one is located opposite Kayangan Square at Jalan Penjara, which is opened 24 hour. 2  Secret Recipe, 275! 3  Jalan Baru, Taman Pengkalan Asam, 01000, Kangar.