1 Per-service: I called a few lawn services in my area, and the most common quote I received was around $60 per service. 2  I had no idea it would cost so much to have someone else take care of my lawn! 3  I’m certainly not paying my son that much, but I’d be willing to pay him $25 per service. I never got paid for mowing my parents lawn. My dad told me no one paid him to mow it before I got old enough to do it so why should he pay me. I did however start mowing the neighbors lawn on either side and one neighbor on the other side of that. Those lawns I was paid 30 bucks to mow and edge.
Figure out how long it will take you to mow a certain amount of grass. Then consider what the going rate is for teenage workers in your area. For example, if the going hourly rate is $10.00 and if you reckon it will take you 30 minutes to do the job, charge for half an hour, $5.00 and so on. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I mow 65 lawns. I charge 7$ per hour if I use their mower (this is rock bottom), and 8$ if I use my mower, but this is a rural area with many elderly ladies on fixed income. I would say that in an urban area, at least 10$ an hour for a push mower and 15$ for a riding mower, per hour
$20+ for lawns 5,000 sq feet. $30-35 for lawns 5,000 - 10,000 square feet This includes edging, weedeating, and grass blowing Same price whether adults or not-- you're paying for the work, not by the age of the worker. In our neighborhood, the rate is $50 cut, weedeat, edge and blow for a .5 (half) acre yard.This cost has dropped recently to $40 due to the poor economy and more competition.
A drop-gate fee is a fee that you will charge, regardless of the size of the job, for simply pulling up to the residence and dropping the gate on your mower trailer. In other words, this is a minimum service charge, according to How-To-Start-A-Lawn-Care-Business.com. Decide on a rate that will make it worthwhile for you to show up on a scheduled day even if it means a trip across the county where you have no other work that day. Usually a $25 fee should cover it.
How much to charge... a good rule of thumb is $1 per minute. Seriously! If the yard takes you 15 minutes to mow, charge $15. If it takes you 30 minutes to mow, charge $30. I was wondering if anyone could help a beginner. SOme questions i have are how much do i charge per lawn, what type of people would usually appreciate getting their lawn cut, and what tools do i need to do a proper job.
For a suburban area's yard, you should charge 15.00 dollars for the front lawn and an additional 10.00 dollars for the backyard. Because backyards are usually smaller. In our neighborhood, the rate is $50 cut, weedeat, edge and blow for a .5 (half) acre yard.This cost has dropped recently to $40 due to the poor economy and more competition.
my name is Tom and I have started my lawn mowing buisness I am 13 years old and I am wondering how much to charge people to mow their lawns. Add your answer. 
If you have a small lawn,about ten,if they do a good job,fifteen.A large lawn,20,if they do a good job 25.If you have a small buget 7 for a small and 15 for a large.That … is how much I normally get paid. In our neighborhood, the rate is $50 cut, weedeat, edge and blow for a .5 (half) acre yard.This cost has dropped recently to $40 due to the poor economy and more competition.