The director refused, believing “Shawshank” was his “chance to do something really great.” Reiner pictured Tom Cruise as Andy and Harrison Ford as Red. 8. Other actors who were considered to play Andy include Tom Hanks, Kevin Costner, Nicolas Cage, Johnny Depp and Charlie Sheen. For the role of Red — a white Irishman in King's novella — Clint Eastwood and Paul Newman also drew consideration. The scene in which Andy first approaches Red to inquire about a rock hammer took nine hours to film. In it, Freeman's character is playing catch with another prisoner, and the famed actor threw that baseball back and forth all day.
That's a quote from Morgan Freeman's character, Ellis Red Redding, in The Shawshank Redemption, speaking of Andy Dufresne, played by Tim Robbins. The film was written and directed by Frank Darabont from Stephen King's 1982 novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. (Warning: spoilers ahead.). 
In 1947 Portland, Maine, banker Andy Dufresne is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at the fictional Shawshank State Penitentiary in rural Maine. Andy befriends prison contraband smuggler, Ellis Red Redding, an inmate serving a life sentence. 1 Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyd Red Redding, Andy's best friend and the film's narrator; convicted of murder in 1927. 2  Before Freeman was cast, Clint Eastwood, Harrison Ford, Paul Newman, and Robert Redford were each considered for the role.
So to celebrate 20 years of rewatching Red and Andy, we present 20 things you might not know about Shawshank, whether it's your favorite film or not. 1. Tom Hanks, Kevin Costner, Tom Cruise, Nicolas Cage, Johnny Depp, and Charlie Sheen were all considered for the part of Andy Dufresne. Columbia. W rongly imprisoned for 19 years for the murder of his wife and her lover, Andy Dufresne's struggle in The Shawshank Redemption is probably the most poignant prison story in movie history. Told by the judge, It chills my blood just to look at you..
Reiner wanted Harrison Ford and Tom Cruise to play Red and Andy respectively. When Andy first gets reassigned to the prison library, the first officer who comes to him for investment help approaches him by saying, “I’m Dekins.” Roger Deakins was the cinematographer for the movie. The role of Tommy Williams was intended for Brad Pitt. James Whitmore was cast in the part of Brooks because he was one of Frank Darabont’s favorite character actors. The character Andy Dufresne had a cameo appearance in Apt Pupil, another Stephen King novelette.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman star as Andy and Red in 1994's The Shawshank Redemption.. It's been 21 years since Andy Dufresne crawled through a “river of s--- and came out clean on the other side.”. The scene in which Andy first approaches Red to inquire about a rock hammer took nine hours to film. In it, Freeman's character is playing catch with another prisoner, and the famed actor threw that baseball back and forth all day.
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence. 1 Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyd Red Redding, Andy's best friend and the film's narrator; convicted of murder in 1927. 2  Before Freeman was cast, Clint Eastwood, Harrison Ford, Paul Newman, and Robert Redford were each considered for the role.
Rob Reiner, who had previously adapted another King novella, The Body, into the film Stand by Me (1986), offered $2.5 million in an attempt to write and direct Shawshank. He planned to cast Tom Cruise in the part of Andy and Harrison Ford as Red. 1 Morgan Freeman as Ellis Boyd Red Redding, Andy's best friend and the film's narrator; convicted of murder in 1927. 2  Before Freeman was cast, Clint Eastwood, Harrison Ford, Paul Newman, and Robert Redford were each considered for the role.
Plot Edit. In 1947, banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover, and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences at Shawshank State Penitentiary. Andy quickly befriends contraband smuggler Ellis Red Redding (Morgan Freeman), an inmate serving a life sentence. Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne, a banker who spends 19 years in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence.