Boa constrictor constrictor. The boa constrictor is a large snake, although it is only modestly sized in comparison to other large snakes such as the reticulated python and Burmese python, and can reach lengths of anywhere from 3–13 feet (0.91–3.96 m) depending on the locality and the availability of suitable prey. The boa constrictor is a heavy-bodied snake, and large specimens can weigh up to 27 kg (60 lb). Females, the larger sex, more commonly weigh 10 to 15 kg (22 to 33 lb). Some specimens of this species can reach or possibly exceed 45 kg (100 lb), although this is not usual
Boa constrictors are distinctly big snakes -- some of the biggest on Earth -- but that's not the only distinctive thing about them. From the color patterns on their thick, strong bodies to the tiny teeth that line their mouths, these snakes are covered with distinct physical traits that make them highly recognizable. While there are different types of boas, they typically fall in roughly the same size range. Boa constrictors are usually around 13 feet long and weight about 60 pounds, though they can grow to weigh more than 100 pounds.
Description. Boa constrictors are pinkish or tan in color, with dark crossbands.Typically, they range in lengths from 20 inches (50 cm) as neonates to 13 feet (3.9 m) as adults. Larger members of the Boidae family have heat-sensitive pits on its head, but this snake has more simple heat-sensitive scales. 
Female Colombian boa constrictors may reach 10 feet in length, though this is rare for B. c. imperator, and the average adult size for females is usually 6 to 8 feet. Males are smaller, usually 5 to 7 feet in length. Boa Constrictor Lighting and Temperature. Boas control their body temperature through thermoregulation, and the cage should have a warm side and a cool side. This is very important! Do not place the heat source in the center of the cage, place it at one end.
Boa constrictor is a non-venomous Boa species. The snake can be found in Central and South America, and on some islands in the Caribbean. The common name is the same as the scientific name, which is unusual. The color pattern of its skin can vary considerably. Boa constrictors grow to a large size. 
Geographic Range. Boa constrictor is an exclusively New World species which has the largest distribution of all neotropical boas. Boa constrictors range from northern Mexico south through Central and South America. In South America the range splits along the Andes mountains. To the east of the Andes, B. constrictor is found as far south as northern Argentina. On the west side of the mountains, the range extends into Peru
The Boa constrictor or red-tailed boa is a species of large, heavy-bodied snake. The boa constrictor is a heavy-bodied snake, and large specimens can weigh up to 27 kg (60 lb). Females, the larger sex, more commonly weigh 10 to 15 kg (22 to 33 lb). Some specimens of this species can reach or possibly exceed 45 kg (100 lb), although this is not usual
Boa Constrictor. The Boa Constrictor (Boa constrictor) resides in the Rainforests of Belize, Northern Mexico and Argentina in South America. There, it is known as ‘Wowla’ to the natives of Belize. Boa Constrictors can been seen throughout the forest and sometimes in off shore caves. 
Boa constrictor is a close relative of anaconda. It can be found in South and Central America. Boa constrictor lives in variety of habitats: deserts, tropical rainforests, savannas and areas near human settlements. 