Dizziness is a term that is often used to describe two different symptoms: light-headedness and vertigo. Light-headedness is a feeling like you might faint. Vertigo is a feeling that you are spinning or moving, or that the world is spinning around you.
Lightheadedness and vertigo both get called “dizziness.” Learn the difference between the two conditions. “I feel dizzy” can mean different things. Maybe you have the sense that the room is spinning or that you yourself are falling or turning when you’re not. Or maybe you feel like you’re going to faint.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. There are two main types of vertigo: peripheral vertigo and central vertigo. Peripheral vertigo is caused by inner ear disorders that affect the parts of the inner ear responsible for balance and perceiving motion.
Different Types of Vertigo. Vertigo is a symptom, typically caused by an inner ear problem, that is characterized by lightheadedness, dizziness, nausea and feeling off-balance. It can occur for a number of different reasons, but rarely is permanent.
People often use the word  dizziness  when they are talking about a variety of symptoms, including: 1  Vertigo (a feeling of spinning or whirling when you are not actually moving). 2  Unsteadiness (a sense of imbalance or staggering when standing or walking). 3  This sometimes is called disequilibrium.
Vertigo is a symptom, typically caused by an inner ear problem, that is characterized by lightheadedness, dizziness, nausea and feeling off-balance.
Vertigo Symptoms and Signs. Vertigo is a feeling that you are dizzily turning around or that your surroundings are dizzily turning about you. Vertigo is usually due to a problem with the inner ear but can also be caused by vision problems and other conditions.
Vertigo can be caused by problems in the brain or the inner ear. 1  Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common form of vertigo and is characterized by the brief sensation of motion lasting 15 seconds to a few minutes.