The white form, Malva moschata 'Alba', is best for the garden. The core of the flower-the stamens and style-are a soft shade of silver-pink, which means they don't have that stark cool quality of many white flowers. All members of the mallow family prefer sun and rich soil. Malva moschata is native to southern Britain, often found on damp verges. This short-lived perennial freely sets seed which is viable for a long period.
Malva moschata (musk-mallow) is a species of Malva native to Europe and southwestern Asia, from Spain north to the British Isles and Poland, and east to southern Russia and Turkey. Fruit. It is a herbaceous perennial plant growing to 80 cm tall, with hairy stems and foliage. The leaves are alternate, 2–8 cm long and 2–8 cm broad, palmately lobed with five to seven lobes; basal leaves on the lower stem are very shallowly lobed, those higher on the stems are deeply divided, with narrow, acuminate lobes.
Malva moschata 'Rosea' , or Musk Mallow, is a leafy, much branched perennial native to Europe and Northern Africa. Stems are hirsute with spreading simple hairs. Basal leaves are reniform and are shallowly 3-lobed. Upper leaves are palmately 5-7 lobed from 0.8-3.1 inches (2-8 cm) long and wide. 'Rosea' is a cultivar of the standard Malva moschata which has white flowers. Whether the plants are grown in containers or in the landscape, they will reach 24-35 inches (6-90 cm) tall
Malva moschata, the musk mallow, is one of my favourite such plants. This barely 2ft-high perennial has clusters of buds that open to form simple, shallow saucers of five blunt-ended petals. All members of the mallow family prefer sun and rich soil. Malva moschata is native to southern Britain, often found on damp verges. This short-lived perennial freely sets seed which is viable for a long period.
The Malva Pages: Musk Mallows (section Bismalva). back to The Malva Pages. Malva alcea L. Malva moschata L. Malva tournefortiana L. The musk mallows are a group of 3 very similar perennial mallows, with rounded lower leaves and usually deeply dissected upper leaves. They are Malva moschata (musk mallow), Malva alcea (greater musk mallow) and Malva tournefortiana. The annual mallows Malva aegyptia, Malva cretica and Malva trifida are similar to the musk mallows in certain respects. Malva moschata, particularly the white form, is commonly grown in gardens as an ornamental. Malva alcea is also grown
Culture: Malva moschata 'Rosea' needs full sun to partial shade with a moist soil. In the greenhouse, we use a soil mix consisting of 2 parts peat moss to 1 part loam to 1 part sand or perlite. Basal leaves are reniform and are shallowly 3-lobed. Upper leaves are palmately 5-7 lobed from 0.8-3.1 inches (2-8 cm) long and wide. 'Rosea' is a cultivar of the standard Malva moschata which has white flowers.
Musk Mallow - 9 cm. Roll over the image above to zoom. £2.49 0850042394. Malva moschata 'Rosea' is a variety of Musk mallow, one of the prettiest of British native perennials, with rich pink saucer-shaped flowers from late May to October, on stems with finely cut leaves. Loved by bees. Heart-shaped basal leaves have a faint musk scent-hence the common name. Height and spread 90cm by 60cm. 
Malva moschata L. is a herbaceous perennial, overwintering as a rosette of leaves. The flowering stems are usually green, but can become brown with age. Young stems have a glaucous bloom. The stems are usually densely covered with erect hairs, but can be only sparsely hairy and nearly smooth. To distinguish Malva moschata f. alba from possible white-flowered forms of related species see the identification of Malva moschata (in preparation).
Alphabetical list of all 3,000+ perennials here. Musk Mallow is a close cousin to the Hollyhock, but much shorter in habit. Plants form a bushy mound of deeply-cut leaves with a pleasant musky fragrance. Satiny single hibiscus-type flowers appear during the summer, in a range of pink shades. Although not long-lived, this will often self sow and come back for years.
Hollyhock (Malva Moschata Rosea) - Also known as Musk Mallow Rose, this flowering perennial is a close cousin to the Hollyhock. Grown from flower seeds, Hollyhock Malva Moschata has a shorter height of 36 inches forming a bushy mound of deep-cut leaves. 