I live in Warsaw for quite a while... It is a VERY safe city. I was also travelling to different countries and I could see the difference-and it is hudge. In Warsaw I was never attacked by anyone even though I usually jogg at nights. I live in New York and Warsaw has to be one of the safest places I have ever been to, police are everywhere and you feel incredibly safe at night here.....comments to the contrary should be discounted in my opinion..... # joel on Apr 01, 2014 :
The Safe House In Warsaw Poland. For those wanting the utmost security can look to The Safe House which is located in Warsaw, Poland. This is a glass and cement house that can go from open and inviting to completely boxed off by concrete within minutes.
Warsaw is a town in Wyoming County, New York. The population was 5,423 at the 2000 census. It is located approximately 37 miles east southeast of Buffalo and approximately 37 miles southwest of Rochester. The town may have been named after Warsaw, Poland. The Town of Warsaw is centrally located in the county and contains a village, also called Warsaw. The village is the county seat of Wyoming County.
Collect this idea. “ Safe House ” was designed by Kwk Promes Architects and is located in Warsaw, Poland. The aim of the project was to create a two-level “fortress” that would provide a high level of security for the owners. […] podrobnejsie na “freshome.com” Imposing Concrete Residence in Warsaw: Safe House […]. The “Safe” house | Jason Thomas Architect. Login to Reply. […] The aim of the project was to create a two 
“ Safe House ” was designed by Kwk Promes Architects and is located in Warsaw, Poland. […] podrobnejsie na “freshome.com” Imposing Concrete Residence in Warsaw: Safe House […]. The “Safe” house | Jason Thomas Architect. Login to Reply. […] The aim of the project was to create a two level “fortress” that would provide a high level of security for the owners.
Warsaw [1] (Polish: Warszawa) is the capital of Poland and, with 1.7 million inhabitants, its largest city. It is located on the Vistula River (Polish: Wisła), roughly equidistant (350 km, 217 mi) from both the Baltic Sea (Bałtyk) in the north and the Carpathian Mountains (Karpaty) in the south. Warsaw is not internationally known for its sports teams or for any of its sports venues, although that may change in 2012 as Warsaw, and Poland as a whole with Ukraine, has improved their sporting infrastructure and stadiums as the hosts of the European Football Championship in 2012.
Warsaw is generally a safe city. The city center has a strong police presence and is generally a very safe area. The Praga districts are reputed to be dangerous, but this is generally more hype than reality. Of course, it would be wise to exercise a little extra caution if you're in an area you do not know well. Warsaw is not internationally known for its sports teams or for any of its sports venues, although that may change in 2012 as Warsaw, and Poland as a whole with Ukraine, has improved their sporting infrastructure and stadiums as the hosts of the European Football Championship in 2012.