The meaning of these tattoos can vary based on the color of the lotus flower selected. White lotus: this is symbolic of enlightenment, purity and perfection. It is considered the pinnacle of achievement in Buddhism and is depicted as a goal for which one should strive on their spiritual journey.
Lotus Flower/Water Lily Tattoo Design Meanings-God's favourite flower the lotus has earned such a reputation by appearing front and centre in religious myths around the world.
Lotus Flower Tattoo Meaning. The lotus flower is a very popular design for modern day tattoos. This flower is very common in Eastern cultures. In Asia, Egypt, and India the lotus flower is as popular as the rose is in the United States. In terms of flower symbolism the lotus represents a new beginning and estranged love.
The lotus flower tattoo has been a part of body art in Asia for a long time because the lotus has powerful meanings drawn from ancient cultures and religions.
As a tattoo lover, you may have seen a lot of lotus flower tattoo design. That’s because the lotus flower is not only very beautiful, but quite meaningful as well. It is a symbol of strength, beauty, purity, enlightenment and wisdom. The lotus is quite popular in Asia, especially in Buddhism.
1 Like the Hibiscus flower, the lotus flower is universally accepted as a symbol of estranged love and the associated empty yearning it entails. 2  The lotus flower originated in Egypt and in India, and has had a major role in the local myths and legends.
Here is the Lotus flower tattoos meaning and symbolism. In some countries, especially ones in eastern part of the world, lotus flower has a special meaning that represents a variety of symbols which are different from one religion to the others.
Yes, meanings–as in more than one. The lotus flower has many different meanings with each meaning being based on any one of a number of factors. Religion, the way the lotus is depicted (open, closed, partially open), the and the color all have unique and specific meanings.