Since all four wheels are off the ground, it doesn't matter if your vehicle is front-or rear-wheel drive. Tow dollies, which lift only the front wheels off the ground, can also be good choice. But these are most effective for front-wheel-drive cars since they lift the drive wheels off the ground. If you plan to tow a rear-wheel-drive vehicle on a tow dolly, you'll have to disconnect and remove the drive shaft so you don't damage the transmission [source: Penske Truck Rental ]. A tow bar is another option. It's a rigid set of bars in the shape of a triangle.
Towing a rear-wheel-drive car presents a few problems. However, it is far easier than towing a front-wheel-drive car and the problems are easy to overcome. The primary concern when towing is the transmission. In automatic transmission-equipped cars, improper towing can destroy
With a tow dolly, the drive wheels of the car are the ones that belong on the trailer. For older, rear-wheel drive cars, the vehicle is driven backwards onto the tow dolly so that the rear drive wheels are off the ground.
Towing with a front wheel drive, rear wheel drive or all-wheel drive vehicle-benefits and disadvantages. There are several ways in which a caravan can be towed with towbars. It can be towed with a front wheel drive, with a rear wheel drive or with an all wheel drive vehicle. Therefore if you intend on towing a camper trailer (you might like to read our article about camper trailers) you must understand a few basic things.
The last component is an axle-lock. If you're towing a front-wheel-drive vehicle with the drive wheels on the ground, you should probably invest in an axle-lock. Rather than manually disconnecting your front axle, this device disconnects the automatic transmission with just a simple twist.
About towing rear wheel drive autos. If you need to move the car or truck 100 yards so as that you can get it to a place to work on it or load it up, it will not be a problem moving the car/truck this short distance with the rear wheels on the ground.