Macrosomia (big baby). The average newborn weight is about 3.4 kilograms (kg) / 7 pounds (lb) 8 ounces (oz). Babies weighing more than 4.5kg/ 9lb 15oz at birth are considered much larger than average or macrosomic, which literally means of large body. It's very difficult to determine whether a baby is truly macrosomic while still in the uterus (womb) - only the post-birth weight confirms this.
The average newborn weighs about 3.4kg (7lb 8oz). Babies weighing more than 4kg (8lb 13oz) at birth are considered larger than average, or macrosomic (NCCWCH 2008, RCOG 2012) . If you have a very large baby, weighing 4.5kg (9lb 15oz) or more, it can put you and your baby at greater risk of certain complications. An ultrasound scan can give an idea of how big your baby really is. However, bear in mind this is not always accurate in later pregnancy. There can be a difference of about 10 per cent between your baby's weight predicted by ultrasound, and his actual weight at birth (
At first the flow of lochia will be heavy and bright red, and may have clots in it. Gradually, it will change to pink then brownish and, eventually, to yellow-white. You may bleed for as little as two to three weeks or as long as six weeks after having your baby. This bleeding is called lochia. It's how your body gets rid of the lining of your uterus (womb) after birth. The blood may come out in gushes or flow more evenly like a heavy period. The bleeding will change colour and become lighter as your uterus heals and returns to its pre-pregnancy size.
Newborn Baby birth weight At full term, the avarage baby will be about 20 inches (51 cm) long and will weigh approximately 6 to 9 pounds (2700 to 4000 grams). - During a normal pregnancy your baby will grow and develop at about the same rate as any other pregnancy. When you visit your Doctor, midwife or other health care provider for antenatal care they will check you over, your weight, heart rate.
Immediately following the birth of your baby, your blood loss will be bright red and slightly heavier than a normal period – though it shouldn’t exceed what can be managed with a sanitary pad every four hours. If it does, please refer to your midwife or doctor. 
Occasionally, bleeding that's much heavier than normal lochia can occur between 24 hours and six weeks after birth. It is called secondary postpartum haemorrhage. It's thought that fewer than one new mum in 100 experiences it. It may be caused by an infection or a piece of placenta that has been left inside your uterus. This bleeding is called lochia. It's how your body gets rid of the lining of your uterus (womb) after birth. The blood may come out in gushes or flow more evenly like a heavy period. The bleeding will change colour and become lighter as your uterus heals and returns to its pre-pregnancy size.
Next review due: 20/03/2016. The first few days with your new baby can be a very emotional time for you and your partner. There's a lot to learn and do as new parents. There is the excitement of getting to know your baby, but you will also be tired, and your body will be recovering from labour and the birth. 
(304 ratings). The average birth weight of a baby born in Britain today is 3.3kg (7lb 5oz), but that's just maths. Weight can vary widely, between about 2.5kg (5lb 8oz) and 4.5kg (9lb 14oz), with girls tending to be around 300g (10oz) lighter than boys. Genetics also play a part in how much your child weighs. Look at your baby picture
Large for Gestational Age (LGA) The average newborn weight is about 7 pounds 8 ounces (3,400grams). The term macrosomia is used to describe a newborn with an excessive birth weight, which literally means large body. The diagnosis of fetal macrosomia can be made only by measuring birth weight after delivery. With about 1.5% of babies their birth weight was equal to, or was greater than 9 lb 15 oz (4500 g). Rarely do babies weigh over 10 pounds (4.6kg). Although most LGA babies are born at term (37 - 41 weeks of pregnancy), a few premature babies may be LGA.
Small for gestational age (SGA) babies are those whose birth weight lies below the 10th percentile for that gestational age. Low birth weight (LBW), is sometimes used to define a baby that weighs less than 5 lb 8 oz (2500 g) regardless of gestational age. - During a normal pregnancy your baby will grow and develop at about the same rate as any other pregnancy. When you visit your Doctor, midwife or other health care provider for antenatal care they will check you over, your weight, heart rate.