In technical terms, stimulus generalization occurs when a previously-unassociated or new stimulus that has similar characteristics to the previously-associated stimulus elicits a response that is the same or as similar to the previously-associated response. Stimulus generalization is when stimuli elicit similar responses to previously-conditioned stimuli that share certain qualities. Stimulus generalization occurs in both classical and operant conditioning situations.
Is the effect of conditioning which removes the discrimination between two stimuli and responsible for evoking the same response. If responding is not able to discriminate from that seen in the presence of the original stimulus, generalization is said to be finished. 
Stimulus Generalization is when an organism responds to a new stimulus in the same way as a previously encountered stimulus, based on similarity of the stimuli and the organism s history of reinforcement with the previous stimulus. 
stimulus discrimination A phenomenon identified in behaviourist learning theory: the individual learns to distinguish, for response purposes, between similar stimuli. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography. MLA. Chicago. APA. GORDON MARSHALL.  stimulus discrimination. . . 1998. The emergent...demonstrated by stimulus equivalence processes...novel conditional discriminations also plays an important...of conditional discrimination, two or more samples...over conditional discriminations are ...
stimulus. adequate stimulus a stimulus of the specific form of energy to which a given receptor is sensitive. aversive stimulus one which, when applied following the occurrence of a response, decreases the strength of that response on later occurrences. pl. stimuli [L.] any agent, act, or influence that produces functional or trophic reaction in a receptor or an irritable tissue. conditioned stimulus. a neutral object or event that is psychologically related to a naturally stimulating object or event and which causes a conditioned response.
To return to the exercise, close this browser window. Discrimination Discrimination occurs when an individual responds differently to two (or more) different stimuli. This is the operational definition of discrimination. To respond differently, you must be able to tell them apart somehow. The monkey soon learns to press only when the red light appears on the panel. Discrimination occurs when an individual responds differently to two (or more) different stimuli. This is the operational definition of discrimination. To respond differently, you must be able to tell them apart somehow.
Stimulus Discrimination is when we learn to respond only to the original stimulus, and not to other similar stimuli. 
Discriminative Stimulus (S D) Definition. The discriminative stimulus is defined as ‘a stimulus in the presence of which a particular response will be reinforced’ (Malott, 2007, p. 202). As the intoductory quote states, the discriminative stimulus is ‘a stimulus in the presence of which a particular response will be reinforced’ (Malott, 2007, p. 202). Before getting into more detail on this, we're going to use an anology to describe the discriminative stimulus (and the stimulus delta