Arnica /ˈɑrnɨkə/ is a genus of perennial, herbaceous plants in the sunflower family (Asteraceae). If enough of the material is ingested, the toxin helenalin produces severe gastroenteritis, and internal bleeding of the digestive tract. Homeopathic preparations of Arnica 24X dilution or more contain no active ingredient and are, therefore, non-toxic.
Reduce Bruises With Arnica Cream Arnica Montana is used by a lot of people for more than 500 years. It has many other names including sneezewort, Leopard’s Bane, and mountain tobacco. It can be seen in the mountains of Siberia and Europe. Because of its medicinal properties, Arnica became a household name. This cream has been used as early as the 15th century. It is made from the alpine plant called the Arnica Montana and is a close family of the sunflower plant. That is why people who are allergic to sunflower, may also be allergic to Arnica. The plant supports a flower head, and it can reach as high as 6o cm in height.
Overview. Arnica (Arnica montana) has been used for medicinal purposes since the 1500s and is still popular today. Applied to the skin as a cream, ointment, liniment, salve, or tincture, arnica has been used to soothe muscle aches, reduce inflammation, and heal wounds. It is commonly used for injuries, such as sprains and bruises. As an herb, arnica is usually used topically (on the skin) because it can cause serious side effects when taken by mouth. Oral homeopathic remedies do contain arnica, but they use a diluted form that is not considered dangerous. Arnica is a perennial that grows to a height of 1 to 2 feet with yellow-orange flowers similar to daisies. Stems are round and hairy, ending in 1 to 3 flower stalks, with flowers 2 to 3 inches across. Leaves are bright green. The upper leaves are toothed and slightly hairy, while lower leaves have rounded tips.
The Arnica Gel came from the Arnica Montana plant otherwise known as the Leopard’s Bane, Wolf’s Bane, Mountain Arnica, and Mountain Tobacco. This herb is utilized for treatment of different conditions such as joint and muscle pains like those with arthritis, inflammation, and even bruises. This cream has been used as early as the 15th century. It is made from the alpine plant called the Arnica Montana and is a close family of the sunflower plant. That is why people who are allergic to sunflower, may also be allergic to Arnica. The plant supports a flower head, and it can reach as high as 6o cm in height.
Arnica used to be included in the tribe Senecioneae because it has a flower or pappus of fine bristles. This was soon questioned and Nordenstam (1977) placed it tentatively in tribe Heliantheae s.l. If enough of the material is ingested, the toxin helenalin produces severe gastroenteritis, and internal bleeding of the digestive tract. Homeopathic preparations of Arnica 24X dilution or more contain no active ingredient and are, therefore, non-toxic.
The flower of arnica is used to make medicine. Arnica is applied to the skin for pain and swelling associated with bruises, aches, sprains, and arthritis. It is also applied to the skin for insect bites, muscle and cartilage pain, chapped lips, and acne. ARNICA Dosing. The appropriate dose of arnica depends on several factors such as the user’s age, health, and several other conditions. At this time there is not enough scientific information to determine an appropriate range of doses for arnica.
Atrogel ® is a herbal remedy made from extracts of fresh Arnica flowers and is an easy-to-apply non-greasy gel. It is ideal if you are looking for a treatment to relieve pain in conditions such as muscle aches or pains, stiffness or after sporting injuries. It can be used up to 4 times a day. Atrogel ® Arnica gel is a herbal gel obtained from freshly harvested, organically cultivated Arnica montana. 1g of gel contains 500mg of arnica extract, equivalent (on average) to 160mg fresh arnica flowers. Other ingredients are ethanol, purified water, glycerol (derived from plants) and hypromellose (a thickening agent). The product is free from genetically modified ingredients
Arnica oil is made from the Arnica Montana plant located in the mountains of Siberia and Europe, and can now be cultivated in North America because of the modern advances. The plant grows up to 2 feet in height and has yellow orange flowers which make it look very similar to a daisy. This cream has been used as early as the 15th century. It is made from the alpine plant called the Arnica Montana and is a close family of the sunflower plant. That is why people who are allergic to sunflower, may also be allergic to Arnica. The plant supports a flower head, and it can reach as high as 6o cm in height.
In fact, arnica is considered poisonous and has caused death. When taken by mouth it can also cause irritation of the mouth and throat, stomach pain, vomiting, diarrhea, skin rashes, shortness of breath, a fast heartbeat, an increase in blood pressure, heart damage, organ failure, increased bleeding, coma, and death. ARNICA Dosing. The appropriate dose of arnica depends on several factors such as the user’s age, health, and several other conditions. At this time there is not enough scientific information to determine an appropriate range of doses for arnica.