Oat hay is extremely nutritious and primarily consumed by horses and other animals. The Kentucky College of Agriculture says oat hay is especially recommended for older horses because it is high in protein and energy content, making it a good choice for mature horses and pregnant mares. People can and do eat oat hay, but whole oats are more commonly consumed by people, usually for breakfast. Good-quality oat hay contains a lot of fully intact seed heads. Horses and other animals like to crunch and chew the seed heads in their mouths, which makes the meal more pleasant for them. Most of the nutrients are also found in the
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Oat hay is good for horses, it's not as high in protein as alfalfa so you have less chances of developing problems that to much protein. It's also more of a bulkier hay so it takes horses longer to finish their meals and being grazing animals it is good for them to forage longer. Report Abuse. Oat hay is great for horses, especially if you compete, or work your horse hard. It has a similar effect as feeding oats. If you do not ride your horse 5 days a week (minimum) don't put her/him on a solid oat hay diet. That will just give him too much energy that will be unused.
The energy and protein content of good oat hay make it a suitable forage for mature horses at maintenance and early gestating mares.. However, it can be effective in nutrition programs for older horses.. Coleman recommends cutting oats when the grain is in the soft dough stage and the leaves and stems are still green. Oat hay at this stage of maturity will have an energy and protein content similar to grass hay, he said.
Cereal hay made from oats, barley or wheat can also be used for feeding horses. Oat hay or green feed is a common forage for horses in many parts of North America. Often oat hay is available because the oat crop did not mature to be harvested as grain. 
Simply put, oat hay is hay that is made from an oat crop not harvested for grain. Oat hay is not a commonly used forage in a horse ration, Bob Coleman, equine specialist for the University of Kentucky College of Agriculture, said. However, it can be effective in nutrition programs for older horses.. Coleman recommends cutting oats when the grain is in the soft dough stage and the leaves and stems are still green. Oat hay at this stage of maturity will have an energy and protein content similar to grass hay, he said.
Oat hay is an excellent feed for horses. The choice between alfalfa and oat hay depends on price per unit of energy or protein and the type of horse being fed. Depending on the area of the country in which it is grown, oat hay can be low in protein and contain only marginal calcium, phosphorus, and carotene. 
So, oat hay is useable for horse rations, but not all horse rations. Feeding oat hay should be restricted to mature horses and producers should make sure the hay quality meets nutritional requirements and is not too high in nitrate. However, it can be effective in nutrition programs for older horses.. Coleman recommends cutting oats when the grain is in the soft dough stage and the leaves and stems are still green. Oat hay at this stage of maturity will have an energy and protein content similar to grass hay, he said.
Oat Hay. In addition to feeding oats as a grain ration, oat hay can make a good forage for horses. Oat hay is high in fiber and the oats are already included in the feeding. Oat grass. Oat grass is a common forage in the Western United States. In this region, oats are dry-farmed for use as a cattle and horse feed. It's also a great hay if you can find it. An oats/alfalfa mix is much richer and higher in protein, but great for growing horses and brood mares. It also works well as bedding, just as straw does.. Goodnight cautions that barley hay looks like oat hay and is often grown in the same areas.