You want to make a difference in the world, and this attitude often attracts you to cultural interests, politics, social issues, and the cultivation of your creative talents. Click here to see the meaning of the Number 19/10/1 In Tarot. The Number 1 suggests a strong sense of independence, desire to excel and to lead. It is the most ambitious number and can bring those who identified with it to the greatest heights. Dream the impossible dream is the deepest motivation of these people, and the hidden motive is self-acceptance. 9 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.
You are strong in material matters, determined and stubborn. You have good business ability. You are a good worker, steady and practical, a builder who takes responsibility well. These qualities may bring you a position of authority and power. 9 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.
Vandana is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Van-da-na. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. 
Dikshit or Dikshitar (/ˈdɪkʃɪt/) (Hindi: दीक्षित), also spelled as Dixit, is a Hindu family name. The word is an adjective form of the Sanskrit word diksha, meaning provider of knowledge. Dikshit in Sanskrit derives itself as a person involved in scientific studies, and literally translates as one who has received initiation or one who is initiated. The surname is usually associated with people from the High class Brahmin community among Hindus in India.
Ghosh is an Indian surname found among Bengali Hindus. Ghoshes mostly belong to Kayastha caste in Bengal. The Bengali Kayasthas evolved as a caste from a category of officials or scribes, between the 5th/6th century AD and 11th/12th century AD, its component elements being putative Kshatriyas and mostly Brahmins. 
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Dakshita in Hindu origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.
Meaning of Indian name: Sujata. Meaning of the name Sujata is 'Of good caste'. Sujata is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Sujata is '9'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Sujata
Name Deekshita generally means Initiation or Consecration, is of Indian origin, Name Deekshita is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Deekshita are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Deekshita belongs to rashi Kark (Cancer), Meen (Pisces) and Nakshatra (stars) Revathi, Ashlesha. Find qualities of Cancerian (Kark), Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Deekshita or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kark (Cancer), Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Dakshata.
Category: L. (Sanskrit लक्ष्मी) In Hinduism, one of the three primary aspects of the Divine Mother. Lakshmi is the wife / feminine aspect — meaning the shakti, power — of Vishnu, the Preserver or Restorer; He is the Second Logos, the Son; He is the sephirah Chokmah in Kabbalah; thus, Lakshmi is the power of Chokmah. 
Dishita is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Di-shi-ta. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Dishita Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Dishita has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Dishita to other names.