I do not have large dogs nor have I ever. Toy breeds do NOT need a special dog formula. Pet Food manufacturers just market it that way to get the toy breed market. It is typically more expensive and there is no need for it. Science Diet, Iams, Purina and Pedigree are some of the worst worst foods you can feed your toys. I can’t spend over $1.05 per pound. I am looking for a good quality dog food to put my new Pomeranian on once he comes home. So far the one that I like best is Pure Balance, I was considering Iams but I’m not so sure after reading the ratings on it.
am feed my Pomeranian with pedigree. he likes it very much. he likes to eat dry pedigree. pedigree is the best for dogs. Taste of the wild puppy formula Not rated yet. I feed the puppy version to my pom and a salmon version to my mally. They love the taste and I love what it does for there bodies and coat. So if you do not think you can do this I think you can! There are many other fantastic holistic dog foods on the market such as California Natural, Holistic Select, Innova, Canidae, etc that didn’t make our top five list of best dog foods for Pomeranian’s but are still highly recommended.
Do not give a Pomeranian rawhide bones, as they will damage your Pomeranian's small teeth and jaw. Rawhide bones are known to cause allergic reactions in Pomeranians. Also, do not feed your Pomeranian spicy foods, which cause stomach aches. The Diets of Pomeranians. Good eating habits are fundamental for healthy and happy Pomeranians. Pomeranians are playful and loyal toy dogs. They can go from calmly curling up on your lap for a nap to promptly alerting you of potential intruders to your home.
With commercial brands, it is suggested to feed your Pomeranian mostly dry dog food since wet manufactured food can cause loose stools. If your Pom is resistant, you can add a drizzle of low-salt chicken broth or low-salt beef broth, either on top or mixed in. As you know, a Pomeranian is a very small and fragile dog, his digestive system is small and sensitive as well. We strongly suggest home cooking food for your Pom. In this way, you are in charge of the ingredients, you know that you are not giving your dog any fillers and you can offer your Pomeranian top nutrition.
Siri Stafford/Lifesize/Getty Images. Pomeranians are a popular toy-sized breed of dog recognized by the American Kennel Club, with famous previous owners including Queen Victoria and Mozart. Like all other breeds of dogs, Pomeranians need a balanced diet in order to grow and live healthy lives. Pomeranian dogs can be fed a raw diet that consists of raw meat, preferably on the bone. Bones are a natural source of calcium and phosphorous, which will again help reduce dental problems. Pomeranian dogs can easily consume and digest raw foods as they have short intestinal tracts and strong stomach acids.
Pomeranian dogs eat dry dog food, but not all types of dry dog foods because they can be very picky eaters. Confidence votes 45. Pomeranian dogs eat dry dog food, but not all types of dry dog foods because they can be very picky eaters. They should not be given any food that people can eat as well. Especially to puppies, to prevent tooth loss, dry dog food is the very answer. Though, don't worry if they do loose some teeth as a puppy, those could be just baby teeth. For the very best results, dogs {especially Pomeranians} should eat their own special dog food
Pomeranian dogs eat dry dog food, but not all types of dry dog foods because they can be very picky eaters. They should not be given any food that people can eat as well. Espe … cially to puppies, to prevent tooth loss, dry dog food is the very answer. 
After years of researching the best dog foods for the Pomeranian breed, we will now share our list of favorites. There are many excellent. holistic dog foods that didn’t make our top five list so if your particular. favorite isn’t mentioned, no worries. So if you do not think you can do this I think you can! There are many other fantastic holistic dog foods on the market such as California Natural, Holistic Select, Innova, Canidae, etc that didn’t make our top five list of best dog foods for Pomeranian’s but are still highly recommended.