Italy (Italian: Italia) is a country in Southern Europe. Together with Greece, it is acknowledged as the birthplace of Western culture. Not surprisingly, it is also home to the greatest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in the world. High art and monuments are to be found everywhere around the country. 
Apulia was a region that included the resemblance to a heel of a boot of Italy, now known as the Salentina (Salentine) peninsula, in southeast Italy. Apulia is now called Puglia. It had also been called Iapygia, after the Iapyges. Italy. Geographically, Italy, or Italia, referred to the Italian peninsula, which included the Apennines (Apennine Ranges) that extend from south of the river Po, all the way south to the toe (Calabrian Apennine). Southern Italy looked very much like high-heel boot.
), officially the Italian Republic (Italian: Repubblica Italiana), is a unitary parliamentary republic in Europe. Italy covers an area of 301,338 km 2 (116,347 sq mi) and has a largely temperate climate; due to its shape, it is often referred to in Italy as lo Stivale (the Boot). With 61 million inhabitants, it is the 4th most populous EU member state. Located in the heart of the Mediterranean Sea, Italy shares open land borders with France, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, San Marino and Vatican City.
The boot-shape peninsula of Italy, extending into the central Mediterranean Sea is a rugged, mountainous country of simply stunning scenery that also includes the popular island destinations of Sardinia and Elba to the west, and Capri, Ischia and Sicily off the southern coast. Italy was certainly influenced by many powerful cultures and political forces over time, including the Byzantines, Etruscans and Greeks, but it was the world-changing impact of both the Roman civilization and the Italian Renaissance that contributed most-significantly to its status in the modern world.
Pinterest 10. Apulia (Puglia) is region that stretches at the “heel of Italian boot” in south-eastern Italy. It is known as the “Kingdom of drought and stones.” Here you will find wild, untouched nature and beautiful mountains with many gorges and caves
The island of Sicily lies just off the toe of Italy’s boot – it’s close enough to Calabria that you can see land across the Strait of Messina. There is a stunning amount of history and art packed into the region of Sicily, and yet it remains off the radar for many foreign travelers. 
The name Italia originally applied only to a part of what is now Southern Italy – according to Antiochus of Syracuse, the southern portion of the Bruttium peninsula (modern Calabria: province of Reggio, and part of the provinces of Catanzaro and Vibo Valentia). With 61 million inhabitants, it is the 4th most populous EU member state. Located in the heart of the Mediterranean Sea, Italy shares open land borders with France, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, San Marino and Vatican City.
The boot of Italy is Italy it's self. The call it that because of it's boot shaped territory. If you look it up on a globe Italy looks like a high heel boot. Italy is called Italy Because there was once a man who had a horses. One of his Horses was called Italy. The man was out excersising his horse one day, and the king was also o … ut! The King was out walking in the forests.