The Leeward and Windward islands together make up the Caribbean islands group of the Lesser Antilles. The Leeward islands of the West Indies are one of the most popular tourist travel destinations in the World with a huge demand within the Caribbean cruise industry. The Leeward islands are situated in the Caribbean, they form a major part of a line of land masses called the Caribbean Lesser Antilles which widen out in the north.
The Windward Islands are located on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Sea and form the southeastern boundary between the Caribbean and the Atlantic Ocean. The Windward group includes the islands of Martinique, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada. The Windward and Leeward Islands are positioned on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Plate. This is an area of modern and historic volcanism. The islands are mainly volcanic with some coral contributions. They have a rich volcanic soil that supports a small agricultural economy.
Some geographers include Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago in the Windward Islands. The Leeward Islands are located on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Sea and form the northeastern boundary between the Caribbean and the Atlantic Ocean. The Windward and Leeward Islands are positioned on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Plate. This is an area of modern and historic volcanism. The islands are mainly volcanic with some coral contributions. They have a rich volcanic soil that supports a small agricultural economy.
The Windward and Leeward Islands have a warm, mild climate and are frequent stops of the Caribbean cruise industry. Tourism is their most important source of outside income. They have a small agricultural economy and crops such as bananas, spices, limes, sugar, cotton, coffee, tobacco and cacao are grown for export. The Windward and Leeward Islands are positioned on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Plate. This is an area of modern and historic volcanism. The islands are mainly volcanic with some coral contributions. They have a rich volcanic soil that supports a small agricultural economy.
Origin of the name [edit]. The name of this island group, Leeward Islands, dates from previous centuries, when sailing ships were the sole form of transportation across the Atlantic Ocean. In the West Indies, the prevailing winds, known as the trade winds, blow from the northeast to the southwest. Dominica is the dividing line between the Windward and Leeward islands. Guadeloupe and the islands to the south were designated Windward Islands. Later on, all islands north of Martinique became known as the Lee
The Leeward Antilles is a chain of islands in the southern Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela. They include Aruba, Curacao, Bonaire, Isla la Tortuga and Isla la Margarita. The Windward and Leeward Islands are positioned on the eastern edge of the Caribbean Plate. This is an area of modern and historic volcanism. The islands are mainly volcanic with some coral contributions. They have a rich volcanic soil that supports a small agricultural economy.
The Leeward Islands /ˈliːwərd/ are a group of islands in the West Indies. In English, the term refers to the northern islands of the Lesser Antilles chain. As a group they start east of Puerto Rico and reach southward to Dominica. They are situated where the northeastern Caribbean Sea meets the western Atlantic Ocean. Dominica is the dividing line between the Windward and Leeward islands. Guadeloupe and the islands to the south were designated Windward Islands. Later on, all islands north of Martinique became known as the Lee
They're called the Windward Islands because they're exposed to the wind (windward) of the northeast trade winds (northeasterlies). The Leeward Islands include the Virgin Islands, Dominica, Guadeloupe, Montserrat, Antigua, Barbuda, St. Kitts, Nevis, and Anguilla. They're called the Leeward Islands because they're away from the wind (lee). The Windward Islands are southeastern islands of the Caribbean and include Martinique, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, the Grenadines, and Grenada.
The previous colony of the Leeward Islands had existed since 1671, but in 1816 it was divided in two, with Antigua, Barbuda and Montserrat in one colony, and Saint Christopher, Nevis, Anguilla, and the Virgin Islands in another. The British Leeward Islands all used postage stamps inscribed LEEWARD ISLANDS between 1890 and 1 July 1956, often concurrently with stamps inscribed with the colony's name; for more detail, see postage stamps and postal history of the Leeward Islands.
The whole Caribbean / West Indies region encompasses over 5,000 plus island land masses, reefs and cays. This section of the guide concentrates exclusively on the Leeward islands (see map) of the Lesser Antilles region of the Caribbean from the British Virgin Islands in the north to Dominica in the south. The Leeward islands are situated in the Caribbean, they form a major part of a line of land masses called the Caribbean Lesser Antilles which widen out in the north.