The loans can also usually be used to pay for car repairs. So while it is not a free service, the financing can in effect allow people to save possibly hundreds of dollars per year. Call (866) 252-7171, or learn more. 
1 Consider a AAA Car Care Center or a AAA approved auto repair shop. 2  If you're a AAA member, consider visiting a shop that's either operated by or approved by the organization you pay membership dues to every year. 3  Plus, you'll get a discount on the work you need done. Instead, here are some places to check out and cross-reference to find a trustworthy mechanic: 1 
Auto Repair Loan. If you are making payments on a nice car and need money for repairs, you may be wondering how you will be able to afford them. If your car is newer and the cost of repairs does not exceed the value of the car, you can get a car repair loan to cover the costs of fixing it. A car repair loan is different from a personal loan because the money is being invested in a vehicle. Usually care repair loans must be to cover repairs that keep the car in running condition but in some circumstances car repair loans can be obtained for other types of repairs especially if a person has good credit.
One in eight Americans wouldn’t be able to afford a car repair bill of $1,000. While most people don’t budget for car repairs, it’s still a good idea to set up an emergency savings account that would cover the costs of car-related problems in the near future. Here are some options for repairing your car when you can’t actually afford it: Negotiate with the mechanic. Shop around. Barter with someone who’s handy. Get a personal loan from a family member or friend. Use a credit card. Sell personal items for quick cash.
The Cost of Auto Repair Bills on the Rise! The cost of repair bills and auto parts is on the rise. The national average per hour for repair bills is $100 per hour, but hourly repair rates can range from $70 per hour on up to $130 per hour. If you have to take your vehicle into the repair shop for 4 hours, the cost of labor alone is $400. Now, factor in the cost of parts, which can range anywhere from $10 - $5000 depending on what is needed to be repaired.
Grants for paying for car and automobile repairs. Low-income individuals and welfare recipients may be able to qualify for transportation assistance from the federal government. The program that they have created is known as Job Access and Reverse Commute, or JARC. 
If someone else smashes into your car and his or her insurance company is paying for the repairs, you are a third-party claimant. This is typically less of a hassle than first-party claims because you have no obligation to that insurance company. 
According to a recent survey by AAA, 62 percent of American drivers would not be able to pay $2,000 for car repairs without going into debt with a credit card or asking for money from friends or family. 
Even if you have car insurance that will cover the repairs, most policies require you to pay a deductible before they pay for the rest of the repairs. A car repair loan can be used to cover the deductible if you do not have enough cash to pay for it. A car repair loan is different from a personal loan because the money is being invested in a vehicle. Usually care repair loans must be to cover repairs that keep the car in running condition but in some circumstances car repair loans can be obtained for other types of repairs especially if a person has good credit.
An insurer is only required to pay damages up to the value of your car. If your repair costs exceed the value of your car, the insurer will often declare your car a total loss, pay you the fair market (Blue Book) value of your car (also known as  actual cash value ), and take your car. The insurer will then come up with an estimate of the damages. This estimate may or may not be enough to pay for the repairs. Although the insurer might recommend that you bring the car to a mechanic of its choice, you always have the right to use your own mechanic.