Heterotrophic nutrition is nutrition obtained by digesting organic compounds. Animals, fungi, and protoctists are unable to synthesize organic compounds to use as food. They are known as heterotrophs. Heterotrophic organisms have to acquire and take in all the organic substances they need to survive. All heterotrophs (except blood and gut parasites) have to convert solid food into soluble compounds capable of being absorbed (digestion)
Heterotrophs may be parasitic, saprophytic and holozoic. 1. Parasitic: The term has been derived from two Greek works: Para means feeding and sites means grains. Parasitic organisms are those which live on or inside other living organisms to derive their food. Such a mode of nutrition is known as parasitic nutrition. A parasite derives its food (nutrition) from the host in different ways the mode of feeding depends upon its habit, habitat, and modifications. 
Autotrophic Nutrition. 'Auto' means self and 'trophic' refers to food. So, the organisms which synthesise their own food are called the autotrophs and the process is called autotrophic nutrition. The source of energy for the autotrophs may be either light energy or chemical energy. Accordingly they are classified as: 1  Photoautotrophic. 2  Chemoautotrophic
Diffen › Science › Biology. Autotrophs are organisms that can produce their own food from the substances available in their surroundings using light (photosynthesis) or chemical energy (chemosynthesis). Heterotrophs cannot synthesize their own food and rely on other organisms — both plants and animals — for nutrition. Autotrophs produce their own energy by one of the following two methods: 1  Photosynthesis-Photoautotrophs use energy from sun to convert water from the soil and carbon dioxide from the air into glucose. 2  Chemosynthesis-Chemoautotrophs use energy from chemical reactions to make food.
Plants and some bacteria have the green pigment chlorophyll to help synthesize food, while animals, fungi and other bacteria depend on other organisms for food. Based on this, there are two main modes of nutrition: autotrophic and heterotrophic. Photosynthesis requires chlorophyll, carbon dioxide, water and sunlight. 1. Chlorophyll: Chlorophylls are green pigments found in all photosynthetic organisms and are responsible for their green colour. In plants, chlorophyll is mainly found in the leaves.
Other organisms, called heterotrophs, take in autotrophs as food to carry out functions necessary for their life. Thus, heterotrophs — all animals, almost all fungi, as well as most bacteria and protozoa — depend on autotrophs, or primary producers, for the energy and raw materials they need. Phototrophs use light as an energy source, while chemotrophs utilize electron donors as a source of energy, whether from organic or inorganic sources; however in the case of autotrophs, these electron donors come from inorganic chemical sources.
Heterotrophic organisms for example organisms in kingdom  Animalia, must consume other organisms for food. Heterotrophs can  be either carnivorous, herbivorous, or omnivorous. Also, a  heterotroph gets energy from the chemical bonds of food molecules  produced by other organisms. 21 people found this useful. The main difference between autotrophic and heterotophic cells is  that autotroph cells produce their own food, while heterotrophic  cells do not.
Photosynthesis: Green plants, which are autotrophic, synthesize food through the process of photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is a process by which green plants, having chlorophyll, synthesize the simple sugar (glucose) from the simple raw materials water and carbon dioxide using the energy of sunlight. Photosynthesis requires chlorophyll, carbon dioxide, water and sunlight. 1. Chlorophyll: Chlorophylls are green pigments found in all photosynthetic organisms and are responsible for their green colour. In plants, chlorophyll is mainly found in the leaves.
Thus, those organisms which obtain their food from other organisms are called heterotrophic and the process of obtaining the food from other organisms is called heterotrophic nutrition. All the heterotrophs depend directly or indirectly on the autotrophic organisms for their food and energy requirements. 'Auto' means self and 'trophic' refers to food. So, the organisms which synthesise their own food are called the autotrophs and the process is called autotrophic nutrition. The source of energy for the autotrophs may be either light energy or chemical energy. Accordingly they are classified as: 1  Photoautotrophic.
Organisms following heterotrophic nutrition are ideally known as consumers of the ecosystem. Unlike autotrophs, heterotrophs are dependent on others for their survival and require ready-made complex food for nutrition, sourced to them by similar organisms in the form of other animals and plants. The following two tabs change content below.