Clinitest was usually run as a reflex test on urine samples with a negative dipstick glucose result. A negative dipstick glucose assay and a positive reducing test suggest that some substance other than glucose is present in the urine. These sugars include galactose, lactose, and fructose. 
I. Method. Clinitest is a reagent tablet based on the Benedict's copper reduction reaction, combining reactive ingredients with an integral heat generating system. The test is used to determine the amount of reducing substances (generally glucose) in urine. Clinitest provides clinically useful information on carbohydrate metabolism. The standard (5-Drop) procedure measures up to 2%sugar; when measurement up to 5% is desired, the 2-Drop method should be used. II
PRINCIPLE: Copper sulfate in CLINITEST reacts with reducing substances in urine, converting cupric sulfate to cuprous oxide. The resultant color which varies with the amount of reducing substance present, ranges from blue through green to orange. 1. Protection against exposure to light, heat, and ambient moisture is mandatory to guard against altered reagent activity. 2. Clinitest is not specific for glucose and will react with sufficient quantities of any reducing substance in the urine (lactose, fructose, galactose, and pentoses). 3. Failure to observe the reaction at all times can lead to erroneously low results if the “pass-through” phenomenon is missed
Clinitest was usually run as a reflex test on urine samples with a negative dipstick glucose result. A negative dipstick glucose assay and a positive reducing test suggest that some substance other than glucose is present in the urine.These sugars include galactose, lactose, and fructose. However, Clinitest, which involves the reduction of colorless cupric ion to colored cuprous ion, is not specific for sugars. Based on this information, many laboratories have discontinued automatic reflex testing for reducing substances in children less than 2 years of age. Clinitest is only performed at the specific order of a physician.
Clinitest, a trademark for reagent tablets used to test for the presence of reducing sugars, such as glucose, in the urine. The tablets contain copper sulfate, and the procedure is a modified version of Benedict's qualitative test. It is rarely used in current practice. /Clin·i·test/ (-test) trademark for alkaline copper sulfate reagent tablets used to test for reducing substances, e.g., sugars, in urine. a trademark for reagent tablets used to test for the presence of reducing sugars, such as glucose, in the urine. The tablets contain copper sulfate, and the procedure is a modified version of Benedict's qualitative test
The Chemstrip glucose pad is only specific for detection of increased levels of glucose and will not detect increased levels of other reducing substances (galactose, fructose, lactose, pentose). A Copper reduction test (Clinitest) detects some hereditary disorders which may be present in pediatric patients. 1. Protection against exposure to light, heat, and ambient moisture is mandatory to guard against altered reagent activity. 2. Clinitest is not specific for glucose and will react with sufficient quantities of any reducing substance in the urine (lactose, fructose, galactose, and pentoses). 3. Failure to observe the reaction at all times can lead to erroneously low results if the “pass-through” phenomenon is missed
Use of Clinitest urine test for indirect estimation of blood glucose levels in the critically ill. Angaran DM, Smith DF, Birnbaum ML. The use of the Clinitest urine glucose test as an indirect way to monitor and control blood glucose levels in critically ill patients was studied. Part 1 of the study was a review of 16 patients records to determine the correlation between 348 paired Clinitest readings and blood glucose levels
CLINITEST. PRINCIPLE: Copper sulfate in CLINITEST reacts with reducing substances in urine, converting cupric sulfate to cuprous oxide. The resultant color which varies with the amount of reducing substance present, ranges from blue through green to orange. 