The concentration of nicotine in these plants, however, is much lower than that in tobacco. The cutoffs of the nicotine/cotinine tests have been set to discriminate dietary sources of nicotine from tobacco use and second-hand smoking. A person's genetic makeup may influence how they metabolize nicotine. In pregnant women, smoking can impair growth of the developing baby and lead to low birth weight babies. Because use of tobacco products can greatly affect the health of individuals, companies may use nicotine/cotinine testing to evaluate prospective employees for tobacco use.
Submitted by Christine Emmick Wed 06/01/2011. There are many things that nicotine is, so to make a concise nicotine definition is nearly impossible. Instead, let’s define it by breaking down its many uses and forms. 
Nicotine, or its primary metabolite cotinine, is most often tested to evaluate tobacco use. Long-term smoking of tobacco products can increase the risk of developing many diseases including lung cancer, COPD, stroke, heart disease, and respiratory infections. In pregnant women, smoking can impair growth of the developing baby and lead to low birth weight babies. Because use of tobacco products can greatly affect the health of individuals, companies may use nicotine/cotinine testing to evaluate prospective employees for
Nicotine is a chemical compound that is present in tobacco. When tobacco is smoked, nicotine is absorbed through the wall lining of the small air sacs in the lungs. Nicotine is an alkaloid that is found in certain plants. It makes up 0.6 to 3.0% of the dry weight of tobacco. Nicotine is found in tobacco plants (Nicotiana tabacum) where it is synthesized in the roots and accumulates in the leaves.
When you use tobacco products, nicotine is quickly absorbed into your bloodstream. Within 10 seconds of entering your body, the nicotine reaches your brain. It causes the brain to release adrenaline, creating a buzz of pleasure and energy. Tobacco and nicotine are addictive like alcohol, cocaine, and heroin. When you stop smoking or cutback your tobacco use, you experience withdrawal. When going through withdrawal you may experience: 1  Anxiety. 2  Irritability.
By now the health hazards of smoking and tobacco use are well known. Smoking is the chief preventable cause of death in the United States and a major contributor to many types of cancer, heart disease and other serious or potentially fatal conditions. Cigarettes are also expensive, addictive and they leave a bad odor. Over the past decade, new research has taught us more about how nicotine affects the brain and the body. Some of it is good news -- for example, a lower incidence of Alzheimer's disease in smokers. Research has pointed to a compound called acetylcholine as the reason.
In addition to nicotine cravings, reminders in your daily life of times when you used to smoke may trigger you to smoke. Triggers are the moods, feelings, places, or things you do in your daily life that turn on your desire to smoke. Common withdrawal symptoms associated with quitting include the following: 1  Nicotine cravings (nicotine is the substance in tobacco that causes addiction). 2  Anger, frustration, and irritability. 3  Anxiety. 4  Depression.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Nicotine is a chemical compound that is present in tobacco. When tobacco is smoked, nicotine is absorbed through the wall lining of the small air sacs in the lungs. When sniffed or chewed, it is absorbed through the mucous membranes of the nose or mouth. Nicotine is an alkaloid that is found in certain plants. It makes up 0.6 to 3.0% of the dry weight of tobacco. Nicotine is found in tobacco plants (Nicotiana tabacum) where it is synthesized in the roots and accumulates in the leaves.
Cigarettes and other forms of tobacco—including cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, and chewing tobacco—contain the addictive drug nicotine. Nicotine is readily absorbed into the bloodstream when a tobacco product is chewed, inhaled, or smoked. For many tobacco users, long-term brain changes induced by continued nicotine exposure result in addiction—a condition of compulsive drug seeking and use, even in the face of negative consequences.
Though many products contain nicotine, we emphasize electronic cigarettes and moist snuff, particularly the kind in packets or hard lozenges, because they provide nicotine in a way that can satisfy most smokers, with minimal health risks, and are easy to use. Unfortunately, the research shows that using pharmaceutical nicotine products to quit smoking results in failure more than 90% of the time. More and more people are using NRTs as a substitute for smoking, in much the same way they might use ST.