Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: In mathematical sets, the null set, also called the empty set, is the set that does not contain anything. It is symbolized or { }. There is only one null set. This is because there is logically only one way that a set can contain nothing. 
null. adj. 1. without legal force; invalid; (esp in the phrase null and void). 2. without value or consequence; useless. 3. lacking distinction; characterless: a null expression. null. adj. 1. Having no legal force; invalid: render a contract null and void. 2.
BREAKING DOWN 'Null Hypothesis'. The null hypothesis assumes that any kind of difference or significance you see in a set of data is due to chance. For example, Chuck sees that his investment strategy produces higher average returns than simply buying and holding a stock. DEFINITION of 'Null Hypothesis'. A type of hypothesis used in statistics that proposes that no statistical significance exists in a set of given observations. The null hypothesis attempts to show that no variation exists between variables, or that a single variable is no different than zero
H0: The Geocentric Model: Earth is the centre of the Universe and it is Spherical. H0: The Heliocentric Model: Sun is the centre of the universe. The null hypothesis, H 0, is an essential part of any research design, and is always tested, even indirectly. 
This time, the query returns Region values that aren't Null. 1  1. Open a blank form and add two text box controls to the form. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. Open the form in Form view and tab past txtOne, enter a value in just txtTwo, and then press Tab to execute txtTwo's LostFocus event. 
29,106 pages onthis wiki. Null icon. null is a reserved constant used in Java and similar programming languages that is used to represent a void reference. In simpler terms, it is a value used to represent that a reference variable has no set value. 
To test for null values in a query, use IS NULL or IS NOT NULL in the WHERE clause. When query results are viewed in SQL Server Management Studio Code editor, null values are shown as NULL in the result set. A value of NULL indicates that the value is unknown. A value of NULL is different from an empty or zero value. No two null values are equal. Comparisons between two null values, or between a NULL and any other value, return unknown because the value of each NULL
an absence of information, as contrasted with zero or blank or nil, about a value. null cell. called also null lymphocyte; see null cell. null hypothesis. a statistical hypothesis which states that one variable has no association with another variable, or set of variables. 