Ozone is a form of the oxygen we breathe and need to stay alive. The oxygen we breathe is found throughout the atmosphere and contains two oxygen atoms (O2) but ozone (an allotrope of oxygen) contains three (O3). It is this extra atom which makes it poisonous and any animal or plant breathing in more than a tiny amount would die.
Full Definition of OZONE. 1. : a triatomic very reactive form of oxygen that is a bluish irritating gas of pungent odor, that is a major air pollutant in the lower atmosphere but a beneficial component of the upper atmosphere, and that is used for oxidizing, bleaching, disinfecting, and deodorizing. 2. — ozo·nic \ō-ˈzō-nik, -ˈzae-\ ˈzä. adjective
Ozone is a gas that is formed in the atmosphere when three atoms of oxygen combine. Ozone is found high in the Earth’s upper atmosphere and at ground level. Ozone has the same chemical structure wherever it occurs. 
Ozone is a gas that is naturally present in our atmosphere. It was first identified in laboratory experiments in 1839 and has the chemical formula O3 because an ozone molecule has three oxygen atoms attached to it. 
Stratospheric “good” ozone. Ninety percent of the ozone in the atmosphere sits in the stratosphere, the layer of atmosphere between about 10 and 50 kilometers altitude. The natural level of ozone in the stratosphere is a result of a balance between sunlight that creates ozone and chemical reactions that destroy it. Ozone protects life on Earth from the Sun’s ultraviolet (UV) radiation. In the lower atmosphere (the troposphere) near the Earth’s surface, ozone is created by chemical reactions between air pollutants from vehicle exhaust, gasoline vapors, and other emissions. At ground level, high concentrations of ozone are toxic to people and plants
A: Ozone (O3) is formed when oxygen gas is exposed to ultraviolet radiation in the upper regions of the stratosphere. The energy of the radiation breaks the gas particles into oxygen particles, which then interact with the oxygen gas to form ozone. Ozone can also absorb radiation and break apart to reform oxygen gas. The oxygen we breathe is found throughout the atmosphere and contains two oxygen atoms (O2) but ozone (an allotrope of oxygen) contains three (O3). It is this extra atom which makes it poisonous and any animal or plant breathing in more than a tiny amount would die.
Ozone is very rare in our atmosphere, averaging about three molecules of ozone for every 10 million air molecules. In spite of this small amount, ozone plays a vital role in the atmosphere. In the information below, we present the basics about this important component of the Earth's atmosphere. Most ozone (about 90%) resides in a layer that begins between 6 and 10 miles (10 and 17 kilometers) above the Earth's surface and extends up to about 30 miles (50 kilometers). This region of the atmosphere is called the stratosphere.
The ozone layer is a deep layer in the stratosphere, encircling the Earth, that has large amounts of ozone in it. The layer shields the entire Earth from much of the harmful ultraviolet radiation that comes from the sun. 
A: Ozone is an allotrope of oxygen, with three oxygen atoms in a molecule. It is a very powerful oxidizer, and absorbs UV-B and some infrared light. Ozone is unstable and decays on its own, the decay rate being a function of temperature and time. Other compounds can accelerate ozone's decay. The oxygen we breathe is found throughout the atmosphere and contains two oxygen atoms (O2) but ozone (an allotrope of oxygen) contains three (O3). It is this extra atom which makes it poisonous and any animal or plant breathing in more than a tiny amount would die.