NOTE: Although French is spoken in many countries around the world, French is an official language in the following countries shown below. 1  Belgium. 2  Benin. 3  Burkina. 4  Burundi. 5  Cameroon. 6  Canada. 7  Central African Republic. 8  Chad. 
Most people would get France and maybe a few countries in Africa or in the Caribbean, but French is an incredibly popular language spoken in over 53 countries. It is spoken by 118 million people as a native language, and by about 260 million more people as a second or third language. 1 Benin-French is the official language spoken in Benin. 2  It was a colony of France until 1960, when it was granted full independence. 3  Burkina Faso-French is the official language of Burkina Faso, however, they also recognize a couple of regional dialects. 4  They were granted full independence from France in 1960.
French is the native language of about 20% of the Swiss population, and is spoken by 50.4% of the population. French is also an official language of Luxembourg, Monaco, Andorra and Aosta Valley (Italy), while French dialects remain spoken by minorities on the Channel Islands. According to the U.S. Census Bureau (2011), French is the fourth most-spoken language in the United States after English, Spanish, and Chinese, when all forms of French are considered together and all dialects of Chinese are similarly combined.
French is the second most widely spoken mother tongue in the European Union. 1/5 of non-Francophone Europeans speak French. As a result of French and Belgian colonialism from the 17th and 18th century onward, French was introduced to new territories in the Americas, Africa and Asia. According to the U.S. Census Bureau (2011), French is the fourth most-spoken language in the United States after English, Spanish, and Chinese, when all forms of French are considered together and all dialects of Chinese are similarly combined.
French is spoken officially in 33 countries-that is, there are 33 countries in which French is either the official language, or one of the official languages. This number is second only to English, which is spoken officially in 45 countries. 
French, as it is spoken today by a vast Francophone population, began to become standardized with Charlemagne’s conquest of the Gauls and Franks in the 16th Century. The history of the modern French language in France emerged with the combination of Latin and Provencal. Provençal keep reading to learn. more The grammar of the French language spoken and written today is in its essentials unchanged from the late 17th century, when official efforts to standardize, stabilize, and clarify French grammatical usage were institutionalized in the French Academy.
French is the official language in 29 countries, most of which are members of la francophonie, the community of French-speaking countries. It is spoken as a first language in France, southern Belgium, western Switzerland, Monaco, certain parts of Canada and by various communities elsewhere. According to the U.S. Census Bureau (2011), French is the fourth most-spoken language in the United States after English, Spanish, and Chinese, when all forms of French are considered together and all dialects of Chinese are similarly combined.
French is an official language on 5 continents: North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. (And in Polynesia, which some may include continentally with Australia.). French is still a legal language in much of southeast Asia, but it is only a primary language in one Asian location: Puducherry in India. 