Gastroenterology Salary. The average median gastroenterologist salary in the United States is reported to be about $335,000 per year or about $161 per hour. The lowest 10th percentile of the profession reported wages of $235,000 or less per year which is about $113 or less per hour. The middle 50% of gastroenterologists reported a salary between $282,000 and $401,000 per year or $136 and $192 per hour. Many factors determine how much a gastroenterologist will make.
A gastroenterologist is a doctor trained in the diagnosis, treatment and management of diseases in the colon, esophagus, stomach, pancreas and liver. Becoming a gastroenterologist requires a minimum of 13 years including classroom study and on-the-job training. Complete a 3-year residency in internal medicine. You must have a general knowledge of how all the organs of the body function and relate to each other. Participate in a 2 to 3-year fellowship program. You must get on-the-job training in evaluating and managing digestive tract disorders.
Step 7: Become Board-Certified. One way to advance a gastroenterology career is to become board certified. Although board certification is not a requirement to practice, most gastroenterologists elect to become certified in their specialty by the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM). Step 2: Take the MCAT. All students must take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) to be considered for admission to medical school, and each program defines its own minimum score requirements. This test is usually taken during the junior year of study in a bachelor's degree program.
Step 6: Complete a Gastroenterology Fellowship. A 3-year fellowship is the final step in the student's education in preparation for becoming a gastroenterologist. This includes at least 18 months of patient-care experience. Step 2: Take the MCAT. All students must take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) to be considered for admission to medical school, and each program defines its own minimum score requirements. This test is usually taken during the junior year of study in a bachelor's degree program.
A gastroenterologist is a doctor whose specialty is treating diseases related to the digestive system, which includes the esophagus, intestines, pancreas and colon as well as their accessory glands. Some gastroenterologists practice hepatology, a subdiscipline of gastroenterology dealing with diseases of the liver. Step 2: Take the MCAT. All students must take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) to be considered for admission to medical school, and each program defines its own minimum score requirements. This test is usually taken during the junior year of study in a bachelor's degree program.
Training, Education, and Certification: Gastroenterology is a subspecialty of Internal Medicine. A gastroenterologist has completed all of the same training as an internist, (4 years undergraduate, 4 years medical school, and 3 years of residency) plus three years of fellowship training in Gastroenterology. According to the Medical Group Management Association, (MGMA) the average compensation for a gastroenterologist is $496,139 annually, based on a report released in 2010 based on data from 2009, the most recent figures available. Those physicians earning in the 90th percentile can earn over $775,000.
Then apply to medical school, which is another four years. After medical school you apply to residencies. A residency usually lasts around 5 years depending on which route you take. For instance, you could do an internal medicine residency then do a fellowship in gastroenterology. I would suggest searching for hospital that offer a gastroenterology residency and see how long they usually are. Overall, including undergraduate college you will be spending about 4+4+5 years for a total of 13 years working toward your goal
Most gastroenterologists are board-certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine, and the American College of Gastroenterology, although board-certification is not absolutely required to practice. According to the Medical Group Management Association, (MGMA) the average compensation for a gastroenterologist is $496,139 annually, based on a report released in 2010 based on data from 2009, the most recent figures available. Those physicians earning in the 90th percentile can earn over $775,000.