Summary. In Benito Cereno, the narrator is Amasa Delano, the captain of a Massachusetts whaling ship. When the story begins, Captain Delano and his ship, the Bachelor's Delight, are anchored off the island of Santa Maria. The Delight is a sealer, or whaling ship. But Benito Cereno, published in 1855 (during a time of great political turmoil over the issue of slavery, six years before the Civil War), provides that very scenario: the slaves, who are portrayed as both brutal and cunning, revolt against their masters and are thwarted by the efforts of well-armed white men.
2010]25Coulson: Distorted Records in Benito Cereno and the Slave Rebellion TraditionPublished by Yale Law School Legal Scholarship Repository, 2010. Yale Journal of Law & the Humanitiesbeen retrospectively supplemented by these sources. The Consulado's letter adds that the Navy Commandant of Callao department 23
Delano soon encounters the ship's noticeably timid but polite Spanish captain, Don Benito Cereno. Cereno is constantly attended to by his personal slave, Babo, whom Cereno keeps in close company even when Delano suggests that Babo leave the two in private to discuss matters that are clearly being avoided. In 2011, Benito Cereno was performed in another off-Broadway production without the other two plays of the trilogy. Yusef Komunyakaa wrote a poem, Captain Amasa Delano's Dilemma, based on Benito Cereno. The poem was first published in American Poetry Review in 1996.
Cereno was presented as the captain in control, when in fact Babo secretly manipulated the entire situation. Delano concludes his story with the trial and execution of Babo. He notes, interestingly, that Cereno seems devastated by Babo's death, falls into a deep depression, and dies himself a few months later. In 2011, Benito Cereno was performed in another off-Broadway production without the other two plays of the trilogy. Yusef Komunyakaa wrote a poem, Captain Amasa Delano's Dilemma, based on Benito Cereno. The poem was first published in American Poetry Review in 1996.
When considering the context of the American Slave trade in Cereno the first thing to keep in mind is that Cereno's ship, the San Dominick, is a slave ship. Cereno describes his ship as having a few hundred slaves on board when it embarked on its journey. He allows his slaves to remain above deck. The fact that the slaves still revolt-and gladly, as Melville is careful to emphasize-shows that this attempt to mitigate the slaves' inescapably miserable condition does not work. One cannot be a happy slave in Melville's story.
2010] 11Coulson: Distorted Records in Benito Cereno and the Slave Rebellion TraditionPublished by Yale Law School Legal Scholarship Repository, 2010. Yale Journal of Law & the Humanitieswritten later. The Consulado's letter adds that the Navy Commandant of Callao department 23
In the high-strung atmosphere of the 1850s, two slave-revolt novellas, first “The Heroic Slave” by Frederick Douglass and then, two years later, “Benito Cereno” by Herman Melville, were unveiled to the American public. In stark contrast to protagonist Madison Washington, the leader of the slave revolt aboard the San Dominick in Melville’s “Benito Cereno” stands as the novella’s antagonist. Unlike Washington, Babo’s features resemble those of an animal
Benito Cereno ends with a brief account of Babo's death. After his revolt is foiled, Babo spends the short remainder of his life in utter silence. He is hanged and beheaded, and the rest of his body is cremated. Beginning in the early and middle twentieth century, critics tended to see Benito Cereno as a parable or allegory of good and evil. To simplify their reading: Babo represents pure evil, the trusting Delano represents innocence, and the tormented Cereno represents the effects of evil on a sensitive soul.