Stratospheric ozone is good and tropospheric ozone is bad. b. Stratospheric ozone is bad and tropospheric ozone is good. c. Stratospheric ozone occurs near the earth and tropospheric ozone occurs higher up in the atmosphere. d. Stratospheric ozone causes health problems and tropospheric ozone protects us from harmful ultraviolet radiation. Helppp Please.
In the troposphere, the ground-level or bad ozone is an air pollutant that damages human health, vegetation, and many common materials. It is a key ingredient of urban smog. In the stratosphere, we find the good ozone that protects life on earth from the harmful effects of the sun's ultraviolet rays. Ozone in the Troposphere. The other 10% of the ozone in the earth's atmosphere is found in the troposphere, which is the portion of the atmosphere from the earth's surface to about 12 km or 7 miles up. In the troposphere, ozone is not wanted.
Where is ozone found in the atmosphere? Ozone is mainly found in two regions of the Earth's atmosphere. Most ozone (about 90%) resides in a layer that begins between 6 and 10 miles (10 and 17 kilometers) above the Earth's surface and extends up to about 30 miles (50 kilometers). This region of the atmosphere is called the stratosphere. Ozone is very rare in our atmosphere, averaging about three molecules of ozone for every 10 million air molecules. In spite of this small amount, ozone plays a vital role in the atmosphere. In the information below, we present the basics about this important component
Good Ozone, Bad Ozone Ozone: Good up high, bad nearby. The atmosphere of the Earth is divided into layers. Each layer is a little different. Stratospheric ozone is found in the stratosphere, a layer of air way up in the atmosphere. The stratosphere is between 8 and 30 miles above the ground-too far away for you to breathe any of its air! The ozone in this layer of air protects plants, animals, and us by blocking the most harmful rays of the sun.
Good Ozone, Bad Ozone. Ozone: Good up high, bad nearby. Stratospheric ozone is found in the stratosphere, a layer of air way up in the atmosphere. The stratosphere is between 8 and 30 miles above the ground-too far away for you to breathe any of its air! The ozone in this layer of air protects plants, animals, and us by blocking the most harmful rays of the sun.
Ozone (O 3) is a constituent of the troposphere (it is also an important constituent of some regions of the stratosphere commonly known as the ozone layer). The troposphere extends from the Earth 's surface to between 12 and 20 kilometers above sea level and consists of many layers. 
Tropospheric ozone, (ground-level ozone) is found in the troposphere, which is the layer of air closest to the Earth's surface. The troposphere is the air from the ground to about 8 miles up into the atmosphere-it's the air we breathe. Stratospheric ozone is found in the stratosphere, a layer of air way up in the atmosphere. The stratosphere is between 8 and 30 miles above the ground-too far away for you to breathe any of its air! The ozone in this layer of air protects plants, animals, and us by blocking the most harmful rays of the sun.
Tropospheric ozone, (ground-level ozone) is found in the troposphere, which is the layer of air closest to the Earth's surface. The troposphere is the air from the ground to about 8 miles up into the atmosphere-it's the air we breathe. Ozone does not naturally occur at harmful levels in the troposphere. 
What is good and bad ozone? Ozone occurs in two layers of the atmosphere. The ozone that is commonly associated with ozone depletion and the ozone hole is in the stratosphere, a layer that extends upward from about 10 to 30 miles (15 to 50 kilometers) above the earth. It is a key ingredient of urban smog. The troposphere extends from the surface to about 10 miles (15 kilometers) above the surface. Ground level, or bad ozone, is also called tropospheric ozone while good ozone is called stratospheric ozone. About 80-90% of all ozone in the atmosphere is found in the stratosphere