There are different types of treatment for patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Different types of treatments are available for patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. Before starting treatment, patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. NSCLC is any type of epithelial lung cancer other than small cell lung cancer (SCLC). The most common types of NSCLC are squamous cell carcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma, but there are several other types that occur less frequently, and all types can occur in unusual histologic variants.
It is more likely to occur if high doses of radiation are used or a large part of the lung is treated. Symptoms include a fever, cough and shortness of breath. Radiation pneumonitis is a long-term side effect of radiation therapy for non–small cell lung cancer. Fatigue is one of the most common side effects of radiation therapy for non–small cell lung cancer. Fatigue usually occurs during or after the second week of radiation treatment. Symptoms of fatigue may increase or become more severe over the course of
1 Signs of non-small cell lung cancer include a cough that doesn't go away and shortness of breath. 2  Tests that examine the lungs are used to detect (find), diagnose, and stage non-small cell lung cancer. 3  Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. Stage IIB non-small cell lung cancer. Cancer has spread to certain lymph nodes on the same side of the chest as the primary tumor; the cancer is (a) larger than 5 cm but not larger than 7 cm, (b) has spread to the main bronchus, and/or (c) has spread to the innermost layer of the lung lining.
Radiation therapy uses high-energy rays (such as x-rays) or particles to kill cancer cells. The type of radiation therapy most often used to treat small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is called external beam radiation therapy (EBRT). It delivers radiation from outside the body and focuses it on the cancer. 
Lung cancer is treated in several ways, depending on the type of lung cancer and how far it has spread. People with non-small cell lung cancer can be treated with surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, or a combination of these treatments. People with small cell lung cancer are usually treated with radiation therapy and chemotherapy. 1  Surgery. 2  An operation where doctors cut out cancer tissue
1 Non-small cell lung cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the lung. 2  There are several types of non-small cell lung cancer. 3  Smoking increases the risk of non-small cell lung cancer. 4  Signs of non-small cell lung cancer include a cough that doesn't go away and shortness of breath. Stage IIB non-small cell lung cancer. Cancer has spread to certain lymph nodes on the same side of the chest as the primary tumor; the cancer is (a) larger than 5 cm but not larger than 7 cm, (b) has spread to the main bronchus, and/or (c) has spread to the innermost layer of the lung lining.
Chemotherapy drugs used to treat non–small cell lung cancer can be given on some of the same days as radiation therapy treatments. Cisplatin (Platinol AQ), which is a standard drug used for non–small cell lung cancer, makes cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of radiation. Before treatment starts, a person with non–small cell lung cancer may have a treatment planning session. The radiation therapy team uses a computed tomography (CT) scan to create 3-dimensional pictures of the tumour, lungs and surrounding organs. This information is used to plan and guide treatment.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Treatment. Surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, and targeted treatments —alone or in combination—are used to treat lung cancer. Each of these types of treatments may cause different side effects. The chemotherapy treatment plan for lung cancer often consists of a combination of drugs. Among the drugs most commonly used are cisplatin (Platinol) or carboplatin (Paraplatin) plus docetaxel (Taxotere), gemcitabine (Gemzar), paclitaxel (Taxol and others), vinorelbine (Navelbine and others), or pemetrexed (Alimta).
Radiation therapy for non-small cell lung cancer. Radiation therapy uses high-energy rays (such as x-rays) or particles to kill cancer cells. There are 2 main types of radiation therapy – external beam radiation therapy and brachytherapy (internal radiation therapy). This is the type of radiation therapy most often used to treat a primary lung cancer or its spread to other organs. Before your treatments start, the radiation team will take careful measurements to determine the correct angles for aiming the radiation beams and the proper dose of radiation.