In order to become a registered nurse, students must graduate from an accredited program. Several options are available, including nursing diplomas, associate degrees or bachelor’s degrees. An associate degree in nursing typically takes two years to complete, though accelerated programs can shorten this timeframe. A bachelor’s degree in nursing takes about four years of full-time study, or two years for those in an associate-to-bachelor’s RN program. Another expedited option is to attend a school that offers a “second degree” program for students who already hold a bachelor’s degree in a field other than nursing.
Degree Types. There are many educational paths that you can pursue to become an RN. RN education degree requirements range from a diploma to a bachelor’s degree. Diploma programs are offered at hospitals and typically last three years. Associate’s degrees in nursing are offered at community colleges and take two to three years to complete. 
Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years. Earning an ADN is the most popular option for registered nurses and opens the door to entry-level staff nurse positions which will provide you with hands-on experience in the medical field. This is the fastest path to becoming a registered nurse as most associate's degree programs last
The most frequently used path to become a nurse is to register for an associate or bachelor's nursing program. An associate degree generally takes two years while a bachelor's degree will take four years. However students can also enroll in a three year diploma program. A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.
Although you may become an RN with just a diploma or an associate's degree, a bachelor's degree in nursing gives you the opportunity to develop more specialized skills, and prepares you for study in a master's program, if you later decide to become a nurse practitioner. 
A: To become a RN nurse you can either take ADN (Associate Degree in Nursing) or you can take BSN (Bachelors of Science in Nursing) degree. Associate's degree in nursing takes two years to complete while a BSN is more comprehensive and therefore takes four years to complete. A: To become a registered nurse online, you have the option of three education paths. You can either pursue a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN) online, get an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or a diploma from an approved and accredited nursing school.
Associate’s Degree in Nursing Programs (ADN). These programs require at least two years of college academic credit and award an associate’s degree in nursing. They include some liberal arts and science courses but focus more on the technical aspects of nursing. 
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program. 
Requirements. Education. The first step to becoming an RN is to earn an associate or bachelor’s degree in nursing from a state-approved training program. Associate’s degrees in nursing (ASNs) take two years to complete and are available through community colleges, career centers and hospital-based programs