In 1964, Another World was the first soap opera to talk about abortion when such subjects were taboo. It was the first soap opera to do a crossover, with the character of Mike Bauer from Guiding Light, which was also created by Irna Phillips, coming from Springfield to Bay City. After five years of sharply declining ratings, Another World experienced something of a mini-revival, and for the 1983-1984 television season, the show jumped to ninth place and 5.6 (compared with 10th place and 4.8 in 1983).
Synonyms are nothing but the similar meanings of a particular word or its semantic relation. A Synonym is a word or a phrase that means the same as another word or a phrase in the same language. Antonyms are the negative connotation of a particular word. An Antonym is a word or phrase that is opposite in meaning to a particular word or a phrase in the same language. So enjoy this list and then get around for preparing your own list of Synonyms and Antonyms. There is no better way of boosting your words power. (Adjective) He is very gallant at the ball. Synonyms: Bold Brave Courageous Daring Dashing Heroic Lion – hearted Valiant Valorous August Dignified Glorious Magnificent Splendid Contextual Examples: I don’t feel bold enough to ask for a pay increase. It was brave of her to go into a burning house to rescue her child.
Another explanation: 1: There is a group of numbers. Add all numbers for the sum or total. 2: Divide by how many numbers you added. Tip: Another word for mean is average. The word 'mean' means the sum of a set of numbers divided by the number of numbers in a set. for example: 7+13+10+12+14+8+9+7+ … 11+6=97 There are 10 numbers in this set of numbers so you divide the total by10 (97divided by 10) ANSWER = 9.7 Ex: 2+6+3+1= 14 Divide by 4 since there are 4 numbers.
2. Synonyms agreeable, blessed (also blest), congenial, darling, delectable, delicious, delightful, delightsome, dreamy, dulcet, enjoyable, felicitous, good, grateful, gratifying, heavenly, jolly, luscious, nice, palatable, pleasing, pleasurable, pretty, satisfying, savory (also savoury), sweet, tasty, welcome. 
Synonyms for gallant ˈgael ˈgæl ənt for, 1, 3; 4, -gəˈlaent, gəˈlænt ˈlɑnt ˈgael ˈgæl, ənt; for. 2, -5, n gəˈlaent; gəˈlænt, -. ˈlɑnt ˈgael ˈgæl ənt gəˈlaent gəˈlænt The adventurous man goes in quest of danger; the bold man stands out and faces danger or censure; the brave man combines confidence with resolution in presence of danger; the chivalrous man puts himself in peril for others' protection.
Anonymous. This is another day, O Lord. I know not what it will bring forth, but make me ready, Lord, for whatever it may be. If I am to stand up, help me to stand bravely. If I am to sit still, help me to sit quietly. If I am to lie low, help me to do it patiently. And if I am to do nothing, let me do it gallantly. 
gal·lant. adj. 1. Smartly or boldly stylish; dashing: a gallant feathered hat; cut a gallant figure at the coronation. 2. a
The word 'their' is one of three that sound the same: there, they're or in this case, their. The type of their you are referring to shows ownership, and means 'belonging to th … em'. Here are some examples: Their dog ran away. I saw their dog run down the street. The word 'mean' means the sum of a set of numbers divided by the number of numbers in a set. for example: 7+13+10+12+14+8+9+7+ … 11+6=97 There are 10 numbers in this set of numbers so you divide the total by10 (97divided by 10) ANSWER = 9.7 Ex: 2+6+3+1= 14 Divide by 4 since there are 4 numbers.
See gambling. To make a bet: 1  audacious, bold, brave, courageous, dauntless, doughty, fearless, fortitudinous, gallant, hardy, heroic, intrepid, mettlesome, plucky, stout, stouthearted, unafraid, undaunted, valiant, valorous. 1 What the game lacked in professionalism, it more than made up for in creativity and fun. 2  Dulce watched briefly, but after a failed attempt to get Alondra to leave the childish game behind, she stalked away.