Fashion for men and women, rich or poor, changed very little over the centuries in Ancient Egypt. The clothing worn by men and women was made of linen, were simple in design, and lightweight for the hot climate. All men, from the tomb worker to the pharaoh, wore a kind of kilt or apron that varied in length over the years, from halfway above the knee, to halfway below it. Such outfits were found in Tutankhamen's tomb and were depicted quite frequently on the walls of tombs. At times kings and queens wore decorative ceremonial clothing adorned with feathers. The manufacture of clothes was apparently mostly women's work.
Ancient Egyptian clothes refers to clothing worn in ancient Egypt from the end of the Neolithic period (prior to 3100 BC) to the collapse of the Ptolemaic dynasty with the death of Cleopatra VII in 30 BC. Egyptian clothing was filled with a variety of colors. Women's clothing in ancient Egypt was more conservative than men's clothing. The dresses were held up by one or two straps and were worn down to the ankle, while the upper edge could be worn above or below the breasts. The length of the dress denoted the social class of the wearer.
Confidence votes 933. The ancient Egyptians used Linen made from flax as clothing material. In ancient Egypt clothing was made from cotton, linen, leather, wool (though the Pharaohs considered animal hair unclean so they had very little wool). 
The clothing of men and women of several social levels of ancient Egypt are depicted in this tomb mural from the fifteenth century BC. Women's clothing in ancient Egypt was more conservative than men's clothing. The dresses were held up by one or two straps and were worn down to the ankle, while the upper edge could be worn above or below the breasts. The length of the dress denoted the social class of the wearer.
Their clothing was most likely made of linen and were nearly always white. The men’s clothing was mainly skirts and ‘tube tops’. Women however wore long dresses. Linen, the most common material used in Ancient Egyptian times, was made by the Egyptians themselves. These are the steps to making linen: Almost all clothing was made from linen which was made from flax. Flax: a plant having small leaves, blue flowers and stems about two feet tall. Ancient Egyptian Clothing. When it came to clothing and fashion, Egyptians were very original. They did not settle for just one or two big pieces of cloth, they would cover their entire body in jewels, vibrant colored clothing and heavy crowns of pure gold.
In Ancient Egypt, textiles were used for many purposes, among them clothing, bags, sails, ropes, and nets. Ancient Egyptian textiles were primarily made of linen, which comes from the flax plant. Textiles were also made from palm fibers, grass, seeds, and much less frequently from sheep's wool and goat hair. 
Linen is made from the flax plant by spinning the fibers from the stem of the plant. Spinning, weaving and sewing were very important techniques for all Egyptian societies. Plant dyes could be applied to clothing but the clothing was usually left in its natural color. Women's clothing in ancient Egypt was more conservative than men's clothing. The dresses were held up by one or two straps and were worn down to the ankle, while the upper edge could be worn above or below the breasts. The length of the dress denoted the social class of the wearer.
Ancient Egypt. The type of clothing materials that the ancient Egyptians made their clothes from are not that much different from the clothing of today. A variety of textured linens were used to create the clothing, such as coarse and fine textures. The Scottish were not the only individuals to wear a kilt, ancient Egyptian men often wore short skirts of the same name. This was typical throughout the Old and Middle kingdoms. Women put on dresses with a straight fit that were held together by straps.
The Egyptian climate with its hot summers and mild winters favoured light clothing made from plant fibers, predominantly linen and in Roman times occasionally cotton, an import from India. Wool was used to a lesser extent, and seldom by Egyptians proper. The clothes were generally made of linen and kept simple: a short loincloth resembling a kilt for men, a dress with straps for women. These basic garments with minor variations accounting for fashion, social status and wealth did not change fundamentally throughout Egypt's history.
Egypt is a hot country and so people wore lightweight clothes which kept them cool. We can see what they wore from the many paintings and sculptures they left behind. Ancient Egyptian clothes covered most of their skin and were made from plant fibres such as linen. 