Australian Aborigines found a myriad of uses for the Moreton Bay Fig Tree (Ficus macrophylla) long before European settlement. The most obvious use is the year-round fruit, the figs, which continually drop to the ground and fill the air with a distinctive fermenting aroma. Pages: 1 2 3. Linda Beaver. Standing beneath the unmistakable Moreton Bay Fig Tree with its powerful buttresses and long dangling aerial roots creates a sense of awe and wonder. In summertime when the spreading tree shelters us from the onslaught of the elements we raise our admiration of the tree to icon status.
The species is generally commonly known as the Moreton Bay fig, after Moreton Bay in southern Queensland, although it is found elsewhere. The term has also been mistakenly generalised to other fig species in Australia. An alternate name—black fig—is derived from the dark colour of the ageing bark. Currently the tallest Moreton Bay fig is found on a cattle farm near Egg Rock in the Numinbah valley of Queensland and measured 49 metres (161 ft) in 2006. At Mount Keira, near Wollongong there is a Moreton Bay fig measured at 58 metres (190 ft) tall. There are many large specimens in New Zealand.
The Moreton Bay fig (Ficus macrophylla) - native to parts of Australia and Lord Howe Island, is one such species and Clarence says, There was an old tree on Lord Howe Island that covered an area of over one hectare.. Clarence's favourite fig is Ficus coronata-the Sandpaper Fig-which takes its name from the leaves that are rough and can be used as sandpaper. Clarence is more interested in the fruit. It's my favourite tasting native fig. All native figs are edible but this is the most palatable, very sweet.
The widest Moreton Bay fig in North America is Santa Barbara's Moreton Bay Fig Tree. It was planted in 1876, reportedly by a little girl who was given a seedling by an Australian sailor. It measured 53.6 metres (176 ft) across in 1997. It is still a popular Santa Barbara tourist attraction. Currently the tallest Moreton Bay fig is found on a cattle farm near Egg Rock in the Numinbah valley of Queensland and measured 49 metres (161 ft) in 2006. At Mount Keira, near Wollongong there is a Moreton Bay fig measured at 58 metres (190 ft) tall. There are many large specimens in New Zealand.
Moreton Bay Fig Trees are native to Eastern Australia. They can reach a height of 40 m (approx. 130 ft) and have large buttress roots, sometimes as tall as a man. The giant has been found to grow to 60m (approx. 200 ft) in the wild. Pages: 1 2 3. Linda Beaver. Standing beneath the unmistakable Moreton Bay Fig Tree with its powerful buttresses and long dangling aerial roots creates a sense of awe and wonder. In summertime when the spreading tree shelters us from the onslaught of the elements we raise our admiration of the tree to icon status.
The Moreton Bay fig is an evergreen tree that can reach heights of 60 m (200 ft). The trunk can be massive, with thick, prominent buttressing, and reach a diameter of 2.4 m (8 ft). The rough bark is grey-brown, and marked with various blemishes. Currently the tallest Moreton Bay fig is found on a cattle farm near Egg Rock in the Numinbah valley of Queensland and measured 49 metres (161 ft) in 2006. At Mount Keira, near Wollongong there is a Moreton Bay fig measured at 58 metres (190 ft) tall. There are many large specimens in New Zealand.
Family: Moraceae Distribution: Rainforest from central Queensland to southern New South Wales. Also on Lord Howe Island. Common Name: Moreton Bay fig Derivation of Name: Ficus....the latin name for the common edible fig macrophylla.... From Greek macros, large or long and phyllon, a leaf, referring to the size of the mature leaves. Conservation Status: Not considered to be at risk in the wild. 
It produces an edible fruit similar to the common Fig, Ficus carica. The fruit is 18-25mm in diameter. Qty: Ficus macrophylla, the Moreton Bay Fig, is a large evergreen tree named after Moreton Bay in Queensland, Australia. The Moreton Bay Fig grows to over 35 meters tall in its native environment. It can make a great bonsai. It has large, elliptic, leathery, dark green leaves and bears small red/orange flowers
Moreton Bay Fig. Name: Moreton Bay figs. Botanical name: ficus macrophylla. Description: Moreton Bay Figs grow up to 50 metres tall in some climates. They are usually branched heavily in the crowns and consist of spreading masses of foliage. They occur naturally on the eastern coast of Australia from Narooma to Brisbane and can also be found in Papua New Guinea.