1 Bright yellow or orange urine can indicate you’ve consumed a lot of vitamin C, carrots, beets, or other foods in the orange family. 2  Some medications can turn your urine this color as well. 3  Dark orange or brown urine is cause for concern. 4  This may mean you have bile in your urine or a problem with your liver.
Despite its alarming appearance, red urine isn't necessarily serious. Red or pink urine may be caused by: 1  Blood. 2  Factors that can cause urinary blood (hematuria) include urinary tract infections, enlarged prostate, cancerous and noncancerous tumors, kidney cysts, long-distance running, and kidney or bladder stones.
A light yellow urine color typically signifies a very healthy urine. The light straw yellow urine will have a low odor, few bubbles in the urine, little to no foam, and have a clear urine consistency. Congratulations, your urine is probably healthy.
Normal urine can range in color from pale yellow (almost colorless) to deep amber. Dark amber urine is usually very concentrated and means that you should be drinking more water. Foods, medications and even vitamins can change the color of urine temporarily but eliminating the cause brings the color back to normal. Most changes in urine color are harmless and the color will go back to normal within a day or two.
Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue.
Greenish urine can mean that you have a urinary tract infection but if it's bright green, it can mean that you have too much of B vitamins. Certain drugs and some health conditions can cause urine to turn green, too, so mention this to your health care professional.