Though cyanobacteria do not have a great diversity of form, and though they are microscopic, they are rich in chemical diversity. Cyanobacteria get their name from the bluish pigment phycocyanin, which they use to capture light for photosynthesis. They also contain chlorophyll a, the same photosynthetic pigment that plants use. Cyanobacteria are important in the nitrogen cycle. Cyanobacteria are very important organisms for the health and growth of many plants. They are one of very few groups of organisms that can convert inert atmospheric nitrogen into an organic form, such as nitrate or ammonia.
Table S1: Modern examples of cyanobacterial calcification from the literature. The calcification mechanism invoked is either direct calcification of cyanobacterial sheath (green), EPS replacement by carbonate (bleu) or undetermined (grey). Location Cyanobateria Mechanism Mineral Ref. Bahamian stromatolite sp (marine) Dichothrix. Sheath calcification “initial calcification occurs in living cyanobacteria and is photosynthetically induced” (from Planavsky et al. 2009) aragonite (6) SEM of carbonate from calcified filaments.,scale bar 5µm
Calcified cyanobacteria are easily overlooked fossils, yet their long history coupled with their sensitivity to environmental controls on their calcification, make them potentially significant indices of changes in seawater chemistry and atmospheric CO 2 level throughout the Proterozoic and Phanerozoic. Model of in vivo sheath calcification in a filamentous cyanobacterium related to CO 2 -concentrating mechanism (CCM)-enhanced photosynthesis (based on information in Riding, , Fig. 3). The CCMs involve active carbon transport into the cell and conversions that liberate OH − ions.
Individual calcified cyanobacteria are normally microscopic, but they commonly form much larger aggregates that are significant components of stromatolites, oncoids, thrombolites, dendrolites, reef crusts, and freshwater tufa deposits that range up to decametric in size. Model of in vivo sheath calcification in a filamentous cyanobacterium related to CO 2 -concentrating mechanism (CCM)-enhanced photosynthesis (based on information in Riding, , Fig. 3). The CCMs involve active carbon transport into the cell and conversions that liberate OH − ions.
Cyanobacteria: Fossil Record. The cyanobacteria have an extensive fossil record. The oldest known fossils, in fact, are cyanobacteria from Archaean rocks of western Australia, dated 3.5 billion years old. This may be somewhat surprising, since the oldest rocks are only a little older: 3.8 billion years old! At right is a layered stromatolite, produced by the activity of ancient cyanobacteria. The layers were produced as calcium carbonate precipitated over the growing mat of bacterial filaments; photosynthesis in the bacteria depleted carbon dioxide in the surrounding water, initiating the precipitation.
Sheath calcification: The protective mucilaginous sheath that envelops benthic calcified cyanobacteria provides a diffusion limited site that enhances the pH rise resulting from carbon uptake (Figures 3 and 4). Model of in vivo sheath calcification in a filamentous cyanobacterium related to CO 2 -concentrating mechanism (CCM)-enhanced photosynthesis (based on information in Riding, , Fig. 3). The CCMs involve active carbon transport into the cell and conversions that liberate OH − ions.
Cyanobacterial sheath calcification: The first appearance of calcified cyanobacteria in the mid-Proterozoic – interpreted to reflect the first development of CCMs in photosynthetic organisms (Riding, ) – marked a radical change from stromatolitic to thrombolitic fabrics. Model of in vivo sheath calcification in a filamentous cyanobacterium related to CO 2 -concentrating mechanism (CCM)-enhanced photosynthesis (based on information in Riding, , Fig. 3). The CCMs involve active carbon transport into the cell and conversions that liberate OH − ions.
The name cyanobacteria comes from the color of the bacteria (Greek: κυανός (kyanos) = kyanós). Blue they are often called-blue green (algae but some consider that name a, misnomer as cyanobacteria are prokaryotic and algae should be, eukaryotic although other definitions of algae encompass prokaryotic). organisms In general, photosynthesis in cyanobacteria uses water as an electron donor and produces oxygen as a byproduct, though some may also use hydrogen sulfide a process which occurs among other photosynthetic bacteria such as the purple sulfur bacteria. Carbon dioxide is reduced to form carbohydrates via the Calvin cycle.