Baleen are long, flat plates, made of fingernail-like material called keratin, that hang from a baleen whale’s mouth in place of teeth. Sei whales have about 350 baleen plates on each side of the mouth. Sei whales are slim whales, with dark gray on the back and are often white or cream-colored on the underside. Oval scars are often found one the body, supposedly made by the bites of cookie cutter sharks. Sei whales have small, pointed pectoral fins, with a tall, curved dorsal fin.
Sei whales received their name because they sometimes gather off the coast of Norway at the same time as the pollock that come to feed on the abundant plankton each year. The scientific name, Balaenoptera borealis, is Greek for “winged whale” and “northern,” respectively. Sei whales are slim whales, with dark gray on the back and are often white or cream-colored on the underside. Oval scars are often found one the body, supposedly made by the bites of cookie cutter sharks. Sei whales have small, pointed pectoral fins, with a tall, curved dorsal fin.
The sei whale looks similar to other large baleen whales. The best way to distinguish between it and Bryde's whale, apart from differences in baleen plates, is by the presence of lateral ridges on the dorsal surface of the Bryde's whale's rostrum. Sei is the Norwegian word for pollock, also referred to as coalfish, a close relative of codfish. Sei whales appeared off the coast of Norway at the same time as the pollock, both coming to feed on the abundant plankton. The specific name is the Latin word borealis, meaning northern.
Some whales are known as baleen whales including blue, right, bowhead, sei and gray whales. This refers to the fact that they have special bristle-like structures in their mouths (called baleen) that strains food from the water. Other whales, such as beluga or sperm whales, have teeth. 1  Share on Facebook. 
It is among the fastest of all cetaceans, and can reach speeds of up to 50 kilometres per hour (31 mph) (27 knots) over short distances. The whale's name comes from the Norwegian word for pollock, a fish that appears off the coast of Norway at the same time of the year as the sei whale. Sei is the Norwegian word for pollock, also referred to as coalfish, a close relative of codfish. Sei whales appeared off the coast of Norway at the same time as the pollock, both coming to feed on the abundant plankton. The specific name is the Latin word borealis, meaning northern.
DERIVATION: from the Latin borealis for northern. Also called Rudolph's Rorqual, Coal Fish Whale, and Sardine Whale. The name of the sei whale is derived from a Norwegian name seje for pollack, a fish that is sighted off the coast of Norway every spring. It is usually pronounced say, although some use the pronunciation sigh.. The sei is a baleen whale and they are usually divided into three families. The sei belongs to the Balaenopteridae, or rorqual whales, that have numerous ventral grooves and a dorsal fin. Balaenopteridae is from a Danish word meaning tubed or pleated whale. The other rorquals are: blue, fin, Bryde's and mink
The Sei whale closely resembles the Bryde's whale in both size and appearance. From a distance it is almost impossible to tell them apart. This whale grows to a length of 12-17m (36-51ft) and weighs 20-30 tonnes. 
SPECIES: Sei (pronounced say) and Bryde's (pronounced broodus) whales are so similar that it was not until the early 1900's that the whalers realized they were hunting two different species. Sei whales acquired their name from the work seje, the Norwegian name for pollock, a close relative of codfish. 
A newborn sei whale calf is approximately 15 feet (4.5 m) long at birth and weighs about one ton. The sei whale is very similar to the Bryde’s whale in physical appearance. They are often mistaken for each other in the wild. Sei whales are slim whales, with dark gray on the back and are often white or cream-colored on the underside. Oval scars are often found one the body, supposedly made by the bites of cookie cutter sharks. Sei whales have small, pointed pectoral fins, with a tall, curved dorsal fin.