Meaning of Melek. Arabian name. In Arabian, the name Melek means-angel.The name Melek originated as an Arabian name. The name Melek is most often used as a girl name or female name. Arabian Name Meaning-angel. Origin-Arabia
Melek is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Me-lek. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10587 in baby name popularity for girls with 10 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Melek Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Melek has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Melek to other names.
List of Arabic baby names, Arabic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Arabic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Melek in Arabic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame detail
Malek /ma-lek/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic derivation, and the name Malek means sovereign. Malek is an alternate spelling of Malik (Arabic). Compare surname Molek. Kreatif forms: Maclek, Matlek, Mellek. 
Comments and insights on the name Melek: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Melek: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Melek: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Melek: | Edit. A Turkish name meaning angel. 
Melek-Meaning of Melek. Tweet. Melek's origin is Arabic. Melek is used chiefly in the Armenian and Hebrew languages, and its origin is Armenian. Here, the meaning is king. Its pronunciation is M-LehK †. Melek is a variant of the name Malik (Arabic and English). Melek is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Within the group of boy names directly linked to Melek, Malik was the most regularly used in 2012.
[ syll. me-lek, mel-ek ] The baby boy name Melek is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is M-LehK †. Melek is a variant of the name Malik (Arabic and English). Melek is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Within the group of boy names directly linked to Melek, Malik was the most regularly used in 2012.
[ syll. me-lek, mel-ek ] The baby girl name Melek is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced as M-LehK †. Melek has its origins in the Turkish language and it is also used largely in Turkish. It is derived literally from the word melek with the meaning 'angel'. A form of Melek is the name Melak. Melek is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
Just for fun, see the name Melek in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Melek in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10587 in baby name popularity for girls with 10 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Melek Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Melek has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Melek to other names.