The tests revealed that she was actually 16 weeks pregnant making her the oldest woman on record to have conceived naturally. Mrs Brooke, who is married to Ray, 74, a former businessman, said: I just thought I'm a 58-year-old woman, this can't be happening. I feared the worst. 
It is, of course, extremely rare for a woman to conceive naturally in her 50s. British housewife Dawn Brooke, who was revealed in 1997 to have become the world’s oldest natural mother at 59, is believed to have been on Hormone Replacement Therapy, which experts said could have triggered the pregnancy. 
2:44AM BST 20 Aug 2007. A British woman who gave birth at the age of 59 is believed to be the world's oldest natural mother, it emerged yesterday. Dawn Brooke gave birth without the aid of fertility treatment breaking the previous world record for a natural pregnancy by two years
Legally there is no maximum age. Women these days can get pregnant in their 70s due to IVF but physically the older a woman is the higher risk their pregnancy is. Older women have a higher chance of having a baby with defects such as down syndrome and other neural tube defects. the oldest age a women should have a baby is 35, because that age and on is a greater risk of birth defects and miscarriages.
The oldest person on record to have a baby naturally, without infertility treatment, was a 59-year-old British woman who gave birth in 1997, according to Guinness World Records. May 26, 2014 | By Marni Jameson, Orlando Sentinel. A 46-year-old from Orlando has become the oldest woman to have a baby through in vitro fertilization using her own fresh — not frozen — biological eggs. Belinda Slaughter delivered her first child — a healthy baby boy — last September.
Maria del Carmen Bousada de Lara is the oldest verified mother; she was aged 66 years 358 days when she gave birth to twins; she was 130 days older than Adriana Iliescu, who gave birth in 2005 to a baby girl. In comparison to mothers between 20 and 29 years of age, mothers over 50 are at almost three times the risk of low birth weight, premature birth, and extremely premature birth; their risk of extremely low birth weight, small size for gestational age, and fetal mortality was almost double.
Pregnancy over age 50 has, over recent years, become more possible for women, due to recent advances in assisted reproductive technology, in particular egg donation. Typically, a woman's fecundity ends with menopause, which by definition is 12 consecutive months without having had any menstrual flow at all. In comparison to mothers between 20 and 29 years of age, mothers over 50 are at almost three times the risk of low birth weight, premature birth, and extremely premature birth; their risk of extremely low birth weight, small size for gestational age, and fetal mortality was almost double.
Last updated at 08:07 20 August 2007. A British housewife became the world's oldest natural mother after giving birth at the age of 59, it was claimed yesterday. Dawn Brooke had a healthy boy without any fertility treatment only 12 months before she became eligible for her old age pension, her family said. All of the family have got young genes, he said. I'm 33 and some people say I look about 24, 25. My sister's 39 and only looks about 27. My mum and my stepdad don't seem their age in any way.. The world's oldest mother is Carmela Bousada, a Spaniard who gave birth in December seven days before her 67th birthday.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. as long as a woman is having her normal periods then she can have a baby at any age naturally.as this means the egg is released to be fertilized ever month till she goes on menopausal stage. If this is the case then the record age for a woman to conveive naturally is currently 59, and the record belongs to a British woman called Dawn Brooke, who gave birth in 1997. --edit-- found the link to the story: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-... Source(s): PhoenixStrike · 6 years ago.