About Intel® Processor Numbers. The processor number is one of several factors, along with processor brand, specific system configurations, and system-level benchmarks, to be considered when choosing the right processor for your computing needs. The latest Intel® Xeon® processor numbering system is an alpha numeric representation of product line, product family, and version. An L suffix will be used to identify a low power processor. The version number will not be used in the first processor generation.
A higher number within a processor class or family generally indicates more features, but it may be more of one and less of another. Once you decide on a specific processor brand and type, compare processor numbers to verify the processor includes the features you are looking for. The latest Intel® Xeon® processor numbering system is an alpha numeric representation of product line, product family, and version. An L suffix will be used to identify a low power processor. The version number will not be used in the first processor generation.
Intel is the trade name of one brand of processor. Like most processors, their fundamental job is to execute a sequence of instructions that make up a computer program. Typical functions of a processor is to perform arithmetic and logical operation, extract instructions stored in memory, decodes then executes those instructions, then outputing the results.
In November, 1971, a company called Intel publicly introduced the world's first single chip microprocessor, the Intel 4004 (U.S. Patent #3,821,715), invented by Intel engineers Federico Faggin, Ted Hoff, and Stanley Mazor. 
Intel's latest and sixth-generation chip is called the Pentium Pro. All Intel microprocessors are backward compatible, which means that they can run programs written for a less powerful processor. The 80386, for example, can run programs written for the 8086, 8088, and 80286. Models after the 8086 are often referred to by the last three digits (for example, the 286, 386, and 486). Many of the microprocessors come in different varieties that run at various clock rates. The 80486 architecture, for example, supports clock rates of from 33 to 66 MHz.
A microprocessor -- also known as a CPU or central processing unit -- is a complete computation engine that is fabricated on a single chip. The first microprocessor was the Intel 4004, introduced in 1971. The 4004 was not very powerful -- all it could do was add and subtract, and it could only do that 4 bits at a time. But it was amazing that everything was on one chip. The 4004 powered one of the first portable electronic calculators. ­ If you have ever wondered what the microprocessor in your computer is doing, or if you have ever wondered about the differences between types of microprocessors, then read on.
Processor numbers for the 6th Generation Intel® Core™ processors use an alphanumeric scheme based on generation and product line following the brand and its modifier. The first digit in the four-number sequence indicates the generation of processor, and the next three digits are SKU numbers. Processor numbers for the Intel® Atom™ processor family are categorized by a three-digit numerical sequence. Netbook class Intel® Atom™ processors have an alpha prefix of N, and Intel Atom processors with an alpha prefix of Z indicate the processor is for Mobile Internet Devices (MIDs).
The microprocessor, also known as the Central Processing Unit (CPU), is the brain of all computers and many household and electronic devices. Multiple microprocessors, working together, are the hearts of datacenters, super-computers, communications products, and other digital devices. 
The first microprocessor to make it into a home computer was the Intel 8080, a complete 8-bit computer on one chip, introduced in 1974. The first microprocessor to make a real splash in the market was the Intel 8088, introduced in 1979 and incorporated into the IBM PC (which first appeared around 1982).
Processor numbers for the 5th Generation Intel® Core™ processors use an alphanumeric scheme based on generation and product line following the brand and its modifier. The first digit in the four-number sequence indicates the generation of processor, and the next three digits are SKU numbers. Processor numbers for the Intel® Atom™ processor family are categorized by a three-digit numerical sequence. Netbook class Intel® Atom™ processors have an alpha prefix of N, and Intel Atom processors with an alpha prefix of Z indicate the processor is for Mobile Internet Devices (MIDs).