Facts and Information. There are a variety of different predators out there that can be dangerous for Lizards. What they will have to contend with depends on their size, the species, and where they live. Birds are a very common predator of Lizards. In spite of the problems that Lizards have with predators, there doesn’t seem to be a big threat for the overall existence of any of the species. With thousands of them that is a significant sign that Lizards are very adaptable and able to handle the changes going on around them.
FIGURE 1. The gecko species common in the Galveston-Houston region (Hemidactylus turcicus) has a remarkable characteristic its tail will break off easily when roughly handled or pursued by other predators such as birds. The broken-off tail will continue to move and thereby distract a predator. FIGURE 2. 
It is common for the Gecko to live in many regions where humans do as well. Most people tend to make accommodations for them and not really care that they are around. This is because the Lizard feeds on a variety of problematic insects including mosquitoes. Most people agree that they would rather have the Gecko around. The Gecko is a very small species of Lizard. Thanks to the infamous one on the make Geiko car insurance commercials where he is a spokesman. There are more than 1,500 different subspecies that belong to this category
The gecko is a small to medium species of lizard that is found in the more temperate and tropical regions of the world. Geckos are more commonly found around the Equator and in the Southern Hemisphere although a few species of gecko are found north of the Equator in warmer regions. Geckos are found in a wide variety of habitats in the warmer parts of the world including rocky deserts, mountains, jungles, rainforests, grasslands and even in urban areas where it is common to find geckos in houses. Geckos can range in size from just a few centimetre to more than 50 cm in length.
Geckos primarily eat insects and worms, but some of the larger species of gecko hunt small birds, reptiles and even small mammals such as mice. Some species of gecko are also known to eat a small amount of plant matter such as moss. Due to their small size, geckos have a number of natural predators around the world, with the snake being the main predator of the gecko. Other animals that prey on the gecko include large spiders, birds and some mammal species. Geckos are found in a wide variety of habitats in the warmer parts of the world including rocky deserts, mountains, jungles, rainforests, grasslands and even in urban areas where it is common to find geckos in houses. Geckos can range in size from just a few centimetre to more than 50 cm in length.
These small geckos are non-venomous and harmless to humans. Medium to large geckos may bite if distressed, however their bite is gentle and will not pierce skin. A tropical gecko, Hemidactylus frenatus thrives in warm, humid areas where it can crawl around on rotting wood in search of the insects it eats. The animal is very adaptable and may prey on insects and spiders, displacing other reptiles. Like many geckos, this species can lose its tail when alarmed
Predators. Leopard geckos have predators, such as snakes, frogs, or foxes and other large reptiles, However one of the main Gecko killers is traffic because they are hunting on the road during night. Their keen sense of hearing and sight help them escape from them during the night. 
To some they are pests, to others welcome guests because of their appetite for insects. Photo E. Brown. In Texas there are two species of introduced house geckos, the Mediterranean house gecko, Hemidactylus turcicus, and the common house gecko, Hemidactylus frenatus. House geckos are common in suburban and urban areas. Both house gecko species have bulging, lidless eyes with vertical pupils and sticky toe pads
It is also known as the Pacific house gecko, the Asian house gecko, or simply, the house lizard. Most geckos are nocturnal, hiding during the day and foraging for insects at night. They can be seen climbing walls of houses and other buildings in search of insects attracted to porch lights, hence their name house gecko. Medium to large geckos may bite if distressed, however their bite is gentle and will not pierce skin. A tropical gecko, Hemidactylus frenatus thrives in warm, humid areas where it can crawl around on rotting wood in search of the insects it eats.