Average Paralegal Salaries. The average salary for paralegal jobs in London, KY is $40,000. Average paralegal salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term paralegal anywhere in the job listing. 
Average Paralegal Salaries. The average salary for paralegal jobs in Louisville, KY is $44,000. Average paralegal salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term paralegal anywhere in the job listing.
Ohio Paralegal Salaries. In 2011, there were a total of 6,480 paralegals working in Ohio, many of which were noted to be employed in the Cleveland, Elyria, and Mentor areas. The average salary among these paralegals statewide was $44,910, the top ten percent of which earned $21,220 more, averaging $66,130. Those working in the Cincinnati area were noted to be the highest paid throughout the state at $48,370, while the 90th percentile in this area earned substantially more at $71,520 on average.
Within Kentucky there is a lot of variation in Paralegal I salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Kentucky and surrounding states, click on any one to find Paralegal I Salaries for that area.
Average Paralegal salaries for job postings in Kentucky are 14% lower than average Paralegal salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The salary for someone with the job title Paralegal I in Louisville, KY varies depending on a number of factors. May require an associate's degree or its equivalent and 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Has knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job.
Average Paralegal salaries for job postings in Bowling Green, KY are 9% lower than average Paralegal salaries for job postings nationwide. 
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Paralegal I in Louisville, KY that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Paralegal I in Louisville are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. May require an associate's degree or its equivalent and 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Has knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job.
Kentucky Paralegal Salaries. During 2011, there were 3,240 paralegals working in Kentucky. The average salary for these paralegals was $39,970 with the top ten percent earning an average of $60,880. The majority were found working in the West Central nonmetropolitan area. Those employed in this area did earn slightly more with an average salary of $45,310 and those in the 90th percentile earning $66,100