Mitochondria and Energy. Mitochondria, an organelle found in both plant and animal cells, contains protein-rich components called cristae, which produce ATP. ATP is converted to adenosine diphosphate (ADP), a process which releases energy. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a high-energy molecule contained in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. This molecule provides all energy needed for various physiological processes, and is renewed through oxidation, so a cell always contains a supply of ATP to fuel the energy demands of the organism.
Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive).
What organelle captures energy the cell needs to carry out its functions? In plants and a few other organisms that can do photosynthesis, the organelle that uses the energy from sunlight to form chemical bonds (namely,glucose) and thus capture ene … rgy is the chloroplast. The energy in the bonds of these compounds (glucose) can later be released during the process of cellular respiration.
Cells need energy to function and to fulfill this important role,  cells have specialized organelles that provide the cell with  energy. This specialized organelle is called … a mitochondria. Mitochondria is the organelle that supplies energy to the cell.  Mitochondria stores metabolites and degrades and recycles macro  molecules. 12 people found this useful. Mitochondria-animal and plant cells Chloroplasts-only plant cells in the animal cell, the mitochondria converts sugars and fats (glucose) into energy (ATP). in the plant ce … ll, the chloroplasts convert solar energy into glucose, then the mitochondria converts the glucose into energy. 4 people found this useful.
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division. Therefore, power-hungry cells have more mitochondria than cells with lower energy needs. For example, repeatedly stimulating a muscle cell will spur the production of more mitochondria in that cell, to keep up with energy demand.
Complex organic food molecules such as sugars, fats, and proteins are rich sources of energy for cells because much of the energy used to form these molecules is literally stored within the chemical bonds that hold them together. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate, or ATP, is the most abundant energy carrier molecule in cells. This molecule is made of a nitrogen base (adenine), a ribose sugar, and three phosphate groups. The word adenosine refers to the adenine plus the ribose sugar.
All animal and plant cells contain organelles, little organs, which regulate specific functions within the cell. Two types of organelles, mitochondria and chloroplasts, are energy-related; they supply molecules of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which power the processes of life and growth. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a high-energy molecule contained in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. This molecule provides all energy needed for various physiological processes, and is renewed through oxidation, so a cell always contains a supply of ATP to fuel the energy demands of the organism.
Mitochondria are the energy factories of the cells. The energy currency for the work that animals must do is the energy-rich molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The ATP is produced in the mitochondria using energy stored in food. This ATP production by the mitochondria is done by the process of respiration, which in essence is the use of oxygen in a process which generates energy. This is a very efficient process for using food energy to make ATP.
(plural: the mitochondria). A membrane-enclosed organelle found in most eukaryotic cells; generates adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a cell's source of chemical energy. In plants and a few other organisms that can do photosynthesis, the organelle that uses the energy from sunlight to form chemical bonds (namely,glucose) and thus capture ene … rgy is the chloroplast. The energy in the bonds of these compounds (glucose) can later be released during the process of cellular respiration.