Readers Question: how did the recent financial crisis spread from the US and the EU to the rest of the world. For more details see also: Financial crisis explained. It is fair to say the crisis started in the US. 1  In the US many people took out mortgages they later couldn’t pay back. 2  These mortgage defaults caused many mortgage companies and banks to lose significant sums of money and go bankrupt.
The Asian financial crisis, which spread from Thailand to other countries in the region during the second half of 1997, plunged the countries affected into deep recessions that brought rising unemployment, poverty, and social dislocation. The outbreak, spread, and persistence of the crisis also challenged some basic assumptions: the countries most strongly affected were tiger economies that had few of the weaknesses usually associated with countries that turn to the IMF for help.
The crisis exposed several shortcomings in the EU’s system of economic governance: 1  Too much focus on deficits: monitoring of countries’ public finances had focused on annual budget deficits and not sufficiently on the level of government debt. 1 Yet a number of countries that had kept to EU rules by running low annual deficits or even surpluses nevertheless found themselves in financial difficulties during the global financial crisis because of high levels of debt. 2  Therefore, stricter monitoring of this indicator was needed.
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a nationwide banking emergency that coincided with the U.S. recession of December 2007 – June 2009. It was triggered by a large decline in home prices, leading to mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures and the devaluation of housing-related securities. While elements of the crisis first became more visible during 2007, several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008, with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession.
How Financial Crises Spread. The authors find that during crises, emerging market funds engage in 'momentum trading,' selling stocks that recently declined and buying recent winners.. Like epidemics, financial crises tend to spread. Witness the 1997 Asian crisis, which quickly engulfed South Africa, Eastern Europe, and even Brazil. Many economists have argued that financial institutions sometimes panic, disregarding fundamentals, and thus spreading a crisis even to countries with strong fundamentals. 
In several countries, governments became ensnared by the problems of the banking sector when troubled banks started turning to them for help. The high cost of bank rescues led financial markets to question whether governments could really afford to support the banking sector. 1 Yet a number of countries that had kept to EU rules by running low annual deficits or even surpluses nevertheless found themselves in financial difficulties during the global financial crisis because of high levels of debt. 2  Therefore, stricter monitoring of this indicator was needed.
WASHINGTON  Barely a week after Europeans rebuffed American pleas to join in their bailout of the banking system, Europe now faces a financial crisis almost as grave as that in the United States  demonstrating how swiftly this contagion is spreading around the world. Casualties of the Financial Crisis. In the last two days, governments from London to Berlin have seized or bailed out five faltering banks. In Ireland, where rumors of panicked withdrawals from banks spooked the stock market, the government has offered a two-year blanket guarantee on all deposits and bank debt.
Even two years after it ended, anxiety still loomed over global financial markets. What was at the time perceived to be a localized currency and financial crisis in Thailand, soon spread to other Southeast Asian countries--including Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. By the fall of 1997, the contagion extended its reach to South Korea, Hong Kong and China. In 1998, Russia and Brazil saw their economies enter a free-fall, and international stock markets, from New York to Tokyo, hit record lows as investors' confidence was shaken by the volatility and unpredictability in the world's financial markets. Below is a rundown of events in this global economic crisis over.
1 Emergency financing: when the crisis struck there was no mechanism to provide financial support to euro area countries that suddenly found themselves in financial difficulties. 1 Yet a number of countries that had kept to EU rules by running low annual deficits or even surpluses nevertheless found themselves in financial difficulties during the global financial crisis because of high levels of debt. 2  Therefore, stricter monitoring of this indicator was needed.