Farm-Raised Salmon Problems. FARMED SALMON EXPOSED. This 6-minute video from Farmed Salmon Exposed explains the importance of wild salmon to the ecosystems of the American/Canadian northwest and explains why open-cage salmon farming threatens this keystone species. 
References. Salmon aquaculture (farming) is the industrial production of salmon from egg to market in a net-cage, pond or contained system. Most of the industry still uses open net-cages in the ocean, and these floating feedlots hold up to a million fish in an area the size of two football fields. Salmon Farm Facts. 1  A salmon farm is likely to hold 500,000 to 750,000 fish in an area the size of four football fields. 2  The biomass of farmed salmon at one farm site can equal 480 Indian bull elephants – that is 2,400 tonnes of eating, excreting livestock. 3  Salmon are carnivores.
1 A salmon farm is likely to hold 500,000 to 750,000 fish in an area the size of four football fields. 2  The biomass of farmed salmon at one farm site can equal 480 Indian bull elephants – that is 2,400 tonnes of eating, excreting livestock. 3  Salmon are carnivores. Salmon Farm Facts. 1 
Photo: L. Renehan/Living Oceans Society. Open net-cage salmon farming is currently one of the most harmful aquaculture production systems and poses environmental threats in all regions it is practiced. The Environmental Impacts of Salmon Farming. 1  Sea Lice. 2  Chemical Treatments: SLICE. 3  Disease
Many thought that aquaculture held the answer to these problems. Yet, practices differ sharply from country to country, making some types of farmed seafood unsustainable or unhealthy. Salmon, perhaps the most popular type of fish raised in sea farms, poses several problems for the environment and public health: 1  The waste from millions of captive fish empties directly into the ocean, polluting the water with untreated sewage, toxic chemicals, and other wastes. Problems With Salmon Aquaculture. Our oceans are in trouble. Uncontrolled fishing has brought many species to the brink of extinction, while pollution from farms, cities, and factories is making other commercially important seafood unsafe to eat.
Chile provides most of the farmed salmon available on the U.S. market, according to the Environmental Defense Fund, which had already labeled farmed Atlantic salmon as an eco-worst choice at the fish market. 
If they are the same species as the wild salmon (i.e. Atlantic salmon grown in the Atlantic), there is the possibility of interbreeding between farmed and wild fish. When such interbreeding occurs, there is a significant change in the genetics of the salmon population. More.
As described below, we promote one brand of farm-raised Atlantic salmon, HiddenFjord premium salmon which is raised in the Faroe Islands (between Scotland and Iceland) and one brand of king salmon, Ora King Salmon which is raised in New Zealand. But most farmed salmon can be dangerous to one's health. The source of the contaminants is in the feed given to most farmed salmon in their net pens. European farmed salmon had the highest levels, those from South America had the lowest and those from major U.S. markets, including Washington, D.C., had moderately high levels.
1 The biomass of farmed salmon at one farm site can equal 480 Indian bull elephants – that is 2,400 tonnes of eating, excreting livestock. 2  Salmon are carnivores. 3  On average it takes two to five kilograms of wild fish (used in feed) to produce one kilogram of farmed salmon. Salmon Farm Facts. 1  A salmon farm is likely to hold 500,000 to 750,000 fish in an area the size of four football fields. 2  The biomass of farmed salmon at one farm site can equal 480 Indian bull elephants – that is 2,400 tonnes of eating, excreting livestock. 3
The farm raised salmon controversy is trumped up, because without farms, the world population would be a fraction of its size. Farmed food is not optional, but a requirement, and in third world countries, salmon is the number one source of protein. Farmed raised Atlantic salmon has played an important role in addressing world malnutrition. There is not enough wild salmon to feed billions, even if every single one was harvested. But in every controversy, there are two sides with two different views of the same problem. This controversy has those who farm Atlantic salmon on one side and those who harvest wild Pacific salmon on the other … and then there are those who make a living off controversies.