Of the three types of point mutations the most harmful are insertions and deletions. They result in what is known as a frameshift mutation. When a nucleotide base is either inserted or deleted it disrupts the amino acids coded for from the site of the mutation on to the end of the gene. 
frameshift mutation / frame-shift mutation; frameshift. A frameshift mutation is a genetic mutation caused by a deletion or insertion in a DNA sequence that shifts the way the sequence is read. A DNA sequence is a chain of many smaller molecules called nucleotides. 
A frameshift mutation (also called a framing error or a reading frame shift) is a genetic mutation caused by indels (insertions or deletions) of a number of nucleotides in a DNA sequence that is not divisible by three. A frameshift mutation is not the same as a single-nucleotide polymorphism in which a nucleotide is replaced, rather than inserted or deleted. A frameshift mutation will in general cause the reading of the codons after the mutation to code for different amino acids.
Deletion mutation. Definition. noun. A type of gene mutation wherein the deletion (as well as addition) of (a number of) nucleotide (s) causes a shift in the reading frame of the codons in the mRNA, thus, may eventually lead to the alteration in the amino acid sequence at protein translation. Supplement.
Frameshift mutation (illustration). This type of mutation occurs when the addition or loss of DNA bases changes a gene’s reading frame. A reading frame consists of groups of 3 bases that each code for one amino acid. A frameshift mutation shifts the grouping of these bases and changes the code for amino acids
This type of mutation is a change in one DNA base pair that results in the substitution of one amino acid for another in the protein made by a gene. This type of mutation occurs when the addition or loss of DNA bases changes a gene’s reading frame. A reading frame consists of groups of 3 bases that each code for one amino acid.
Deletion Mutation and DNA. A deletion mutation occurs when part of a DNA molecule is not copied during DNA replication. This uncopied part can be as small as a single nucleotide or as much as an entire chromosome. The loss of this DNA during replication can lead to a genetic disease.
Due to the triplet nature of gene expression by codons, the insertion or deletion can change the reading frame (the grouping of the codons), resulting in a completely different translation from the original. The earlier in the sequence the deletion or insertion occurs, the more altered the protein. A frameshift mutation is not the same as a single-nucleotide polymorphism in which a nucleotide is replaced, rather than inserted or deleted. A frameshift mutation will in general cause the reading of the codons after the mutation to code for different amino acids.
Answer by Ccbuckner. Confidence votes 611. A type of gene mutation wherein the deletion (as well as addition) of (a number of) nucleotide(s) causes a shift in the reading frame of the codons in the mRNA, thus, may eventually lead to the alteration in the amino acid sequence at protein translation.. The addition or deletion of a nucleotide can lead to a Frameshift mutation. The Frameshift mutation causes a shift in the reading frame of the codons in the mRNA. This may l … ead to the change in the amino acid sequence at protein translation. 3 people found this useful