By Christopher Minster. The Colossal Heads of the Olmec: The Olmec civilization, which thrived along Mexico's Gulf Coast from approximately 1200 - 400 B.C., was the first major Mesoamerican culture. They were extremely talented artists, and their most lasting artistic contribution is without a doubt the enormous sculpted heads they created. The Olmec civilization was very influential with later cultures such as the Aztec and the Maya, who adopted many of their artistic styles. The giant stone heads of the Olmec were never copied, however, possibly because they were already lost or were so difficult to move.
The discovery of a colossal head at Tres Zapotes in the nineteenth century spurred the first archaeological investigations of Olmec culture by Matthew Stirling in 1938. Seventeen confirmed examples are known from four sites within the Olmec heartland on the Gulf Coast of Mexico. Although most of the facial detail is lost, the crinkling of the bridge of the nose is still evident, a feature that is common to the frowning expressions of the other Olmec colossal heads. La Venta Monument 4 measures 2.26 metres (7.4 ft) high by 1.98 metres (6.5 ft) wide and 1.86 metres (6.1 ft) deep.
The Olmec colossal heads are at least seventeen monumental stone representations of human heads sculpted from large basalt boulders. The heads date from at least before 900 BC and are a distinctive feature of the Olmec civilization of ancient Mesoamerica. Although most of the facial detail is lost, the crinkling of the bridge of the nose is still evident, a feature that is common to the frowning expressions of the other Olmec colossal heads. La Venta Monument 4 measures 2.26 metres (7.4 ft) high by 1.98 metres (6.5 ft) wide and 1.86 metres (6.1 ft) deep.
(1) Images of the La Venta Heads. The Olmec Stone Heads of Mexico: The huge proportions of the heads suggests that they (The people represented by the heads) were important people, and their association with the Olmec culture at around (800-600 BC) places them long before the Maya, Inca or Columbus's arrival in America. The San Lorenzo Heads. Ten colossal stone heads representing heads of past and present rulers have been found at San Lorenzo. Evidence suggests that these heads were plastered and painted in bright colours. They were arranged in ensembles and set in a plaza paved with red sand and yellow gravel.
Most colossal heads were sculpted from spherical boulders but two from San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan tenochtitlán were-re carved from massive stone. Thrones an additional, monument At Takalik abaj In, guatemala is a throne that may have been carved from a colossal. Head this is the only known example from outside The olmec. heartland Although most of the facial detail is lost, the crinkling of the bridge of the nose is still evident, a feature that is common to the frowning expressions of the other Olmec colossal heads. La Venta Monument 4 measures 2.26 metres (7.4 ft) high by 1.98 metres (6.5 ft) wide and 1.86 metres (6.1 ft) deep.
The stone heads have been found at the three most significant Olmecs sites in Mexico (La Venta, San Lorenzo and Tres Zapotez). They were carved from huge basalt boulders, some quarried in the Tuxtlas Mountains; some from the basalt of Cerro Cintepec; others from basalt found on San Martin Volcano. The San Lorenzo Heads. Ten colossal stone heads representing heads of past and present rulers have been found at San Lorenzo. Evidence suggests that these heads were plastered and painted in bright colours. They were arranged in ensembles and set in a plaza paved with red sand and yellow gravel.
The stone head sculptures of the Olmec civilization of the Gulf Coast of Mexico (1200 BCE - 400 BCE) are amongst the most mysterious and debated artefacts from the ancient world. Facial details were drilled into the stone (using reeds and wet sand) so that prominent features such as the eyes, mouth, and nostrils have real depth. Some also have deliberately drilled dimples on the cheeks, chin, and lips.
elina. The Olmec Heads, known in the archaeological literature as Colossal Heads or Cabezas Colosales in Spanish, are megalithic stone sculptures with puffy faces that are iconic to the Early [1450-1000 cal BC] and Middle Formative [1000-400 cal BC] periods of the Olmec culture of central America. 
Some heads are also recarvings of other objects. For example, San Lorenzo Colossal Head 7 was originally a throne and has a deep indentation on one side and Altar 5 from La Venta seems to have been abandoned in the middle of such a conversion. Facial details were drilled into the stone (using reeds and wet sand) so that prominent features such as the eyes, mouth, and nostrils have real depth. Some also have deliberately drilled dimples on the cheeks, chin, and lips.
The heartland of the Olmec culture developed in the southern Gulf Coast plains of Mexico in the states of Tabasco and Veracruz. Large stone monuments of various types have been found on approximately two dozen sites in this region. The Olmec culture lasted for about a thousand years. The defining traits of the Olmec develops between 1800 B.C. and 1400 B.C. The Olmec culture is in its decline by 400 B.C. Most of the colossal heads were produced sometime between 1200 B.C. and 900 B.C. during the Preclassic Period.