NADPH and ATP are produced by the light reactions. The ATP is a  high energy molecule produced by photophosphorylation while the  NADPH is produced at the end of the electro … n transport chain. 1  A Complete List of National Phone Carriers When considering a cellphone carrier, you have many choices.
What Photosynthesis Is. Photosynthesis is the method by which light energy is converted to chemical energy. Autotrophs, organisms that use energy from sunlight or inorganic substances to make organic compounds, go through photosynthesis. In stage one of photosynthesis, energy in the form of light is captured from the sun, because the light captured helps make light reactions which help power photosynthesis. Pigments, light absorbing compounds that absorb certain wavelengths of visible light and reflects all the others, capture this light energy.
The energy in sunlight is introduced into the biosphere by a process known as photosynthesis, which occurs in plants, algae and some types of bacteria. Photosynthesis can be defined as the physico-chemical process by which photosynthetic organisms use light energy to drive the synthesis of organic compounds. The photosynthetic process depends on a set of complex protein molecules that are located in and around a highly organized membrane.
It acts like energy 'currency' in the cell. It is such a flexible source of energy for the cell, the entire point of cellular respiration and, therefore, why we eat and breath, is to make ATP for our cells to use. The hydrogen carriers help in this process. I am trying my best to stay away from Wikipedia as I have... show more I really don't understand what roles ATP and hydrogen carriers serve in photosynthesis and cellular respiration. I tried my best to do some research online, but I really am not finding anything.
Cells do this by extracting electrons, which have energy, from the glucose. The hydrogen carriers like NADH and NADPH (in plants) and FADH2 grab the electrons that have been released from the glucose. These carriers then take the electrons to another part of the cell (the mitochondria) where they are used to produce crap-loads of ATP. I am trying my best to stay away from Wikipedia as I have... show more I really don't understand what roles ATP and hydrogen carriers serve in photosynthesis and cellular respiration. I tried my best to do some research online, but I really am not finding anything.
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. The role of NADPH in oxygen-producing photosynthesis is to ____. a) supply hydrogen to the carbohydrate; b) supply carbon to the carbohydrate; c) supply energy that can be used to form a carbohydrate; d) transfer oxygens from the third phosphate group to the carbohydrate molecule; e) convert RuBP into PGA. 29.
NADP+ is the common notation for the nonreduced form, and NADPH is the name once it has been reduced, or gained an electron. NADPH acts as a carrier of electrons and is used extensively in the synthesis of biological molecules. A state of a molecule once it has lost an electron. During the Calvin cycle, carbon dioxide (CO 2) is fixed using energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH), which are generated in the first stage of photosynthesis, called the light-dependent reactions.
28. The role of NADPH in oxygen-producing photosynthesis is to ____. a) supply hydrogen to the carbohydrate; b) supply carbon to the carbohydrate; c) supply energy that can be used to form a carbohydrate; d) transfer oxygens from the third phosphate group to the carbohydrate molecule; e) convert RuBP into PGA. 29.
The ATP is a  high energy molecule produced by photophosphorylation while the  NADPH is produced at the end of the electro … n transport chain. an analogy of an electron carrier molecule and high energy electrons can be just like moving a potato. you use an oven mitt to move the potato just like electron carriers. 