Rheumatoid arthritis is primarily a joint disease. However, rheumatoid arthritis occasionally affects other parts of the body — including the eyes. The most common eye-related symptom of rheumatoid arthritis is dryness. Dry eyes also can be a symptom of Sjogren's syndrome — an autoimmune disorder that's often associated with rheumatoid arthritis. If you have rheumatoid arthritis and experience eye pain, vision changes or other eye problems, consult an ophthalmologist for an evaluation. Early treatment can help prevent vision-threatening complications.
Joints in the spine affected by Rheumatoid Arthritis become unstable. Damage to supporting tissues can cause vertebrae to slip in a process called spondolisthesis. The result can be pain due to pressure on nerves caused by the slipped vertebra. The spinal cord can be compressed which can cause a wide range of symptoms. A chief area of disagreement is which joints that can be affected by Rheumatoid Arthritis. Most authors include their list. However, the different lists do not match one another or the facts that I have learned firsthand. Rheumatoid Arthritis in the spine is one prominent example.
More rarely, rheumatoid arthritis can cause inflammation in the white part (sclera) of your eyes, which can result in redness and pain. The cornea, the clear membrane that covers the front of your eye, may also become inflamed. If you have rheumatoid arthritis and experience eye pain, vision changes or other eye problems, consult an ophthalmologist for an evaluation. Early treatment can help prevent vision-threatening complications.
Watch ArthritisVideos. Rheumatoid arthritis of the spine can lead to neck pain, back pain, and/or pain that radiates into the legs or arms. In advanced cases, the joint deterioration in the spine can lead to compression of the spinal cord and/or the spinal nerve roots. The disease can occur in any joint in the body and is most commonly symptomatic in the small joints in the hands and feet. When rheumatoid arthritis affects the joints in the spine, it is far more common for the neck (cervical spine) to be affected than for the lower back. 1  The most common form of arthritis in the back is osteoarthritis. 2  Read more: Osteoarthritis of the Spine
Other forms of arthritis and related conditions that can affect the back include: • Osteoarthritis. The most common form of arthritis of the back, osteoarthritis is a chronic condition characterized by the breakdown of the cartilage that cushions the ends of the bones where they meet to form joints. In addition to affecting the spine, they may cause pain and inflammation in the joints of the pelvis, hips, ankles and knees. They may also affect other body organs such as the eyes, skin and bowels. • Enteropathic arthritis.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a type of arthritis that primarily affects the spine. The disease is characterized by inflammation and resulting stiffness and pain in the joints along the spine. The knee and shoulder joints may also be affected. Watch: Ankylosing Spondylitis Video. 