Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. If your HDL is low, increasing your physical activity can increase it, which may help reduce your LDL level. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is optimal. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high
They take out the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL). Thus, they help blood to circulate without restraint. Due to this advantage, a substantial quantity is much better when it comes to HDL levels. A score below 40 mg per dL (1 mmol/L) for men, and 50 mg per dL (1.3 mmol/L) for women is known to be low. This places you at threat of cardiovascular problems. A normal HDL cholesterol is in between 40 and 49 mg per dL (1 and 1.3 mmol/L) for men. A result of under 200 mg per dL (5.2 mmol/L) is ideal. A level somewhere between 200 to 239 mg per dL (5.2 and 6.2 mmol/L) is within the edge line of high-risk class. In that case, your doctor might advise you to develop a preventing low cholesterol diet plan.
LDL levels are therefore the very best gauge of risk of cardiac arrest. A low LDL cholesterol is much better. Lower than 100 mg per dL (2.6 mmol/L) is the ideal. Between 100 and 129 mg per dL (2.6 and 3.3 mmol/L) is close to ideal, while between 130 and 159 mg per dL (3.4 and 4.1 mmol/L) is borderline elevated. A result of under 200 mg per dL (5.2 mmol/L) is ideal. A level somewhere between 200 to 239 mg per dL (5.2 and 6.2 mmol/L) is within the edge line of high-risk class. In that case, your doctor might advise you to develop a preventing low cholesterol diet plan.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is optimal. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high
In the United States, cholesterol levels are calculated in milligrams of cholesterol for each deciliter of blood. A result of under 200 mg per dL (5.2 mmol/L) is ideal. A level somewhere between 200 to 239 mg per dL (5.2 and 6.2 mmol/L) is within the edge line of high-risk class. In that case, your doctor might advise you to develop a preventing low cholesterol diet plan.
1 The 200-239 mg/dL range is termed borderline high. 2  Cholesterol levels higher than 240 mg/dL is considered high and counterintuitively, though this cholesterol level is no way near double to triple the desirable cholesterol level, the risk for vascular disease is almost doubled to tripled. 1 Values in the range 40-59 mg/dL neither increases nor decreases risk for heart disease. 2  A HDL level greater than 60 mg/dL is considered most desirable and is thought to assert a protective factor against the development of
Here's a breakdown of LDL cholesterol levels and health: Less than 70 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) – this is your goal if you're at very high risk for a heart attack. Less than 100 mg/dL – the goal for people with heart disease or diabetes. 100 to 129 mg/dL – near or above the ideal level. 200 to 240 mg/dL – borderline high. 240 mg/dL and above – high. Ideally, HDL cholesterol should be above 40 mg/dL for men and above 50 mg/dL for women. The higher your HDL level, the better.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is optimal. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high. If your LDL goes higher, your total cholesterol level could become Borderline High. Consider reducing the amount of foods you eat with saturated fats and increasing physical activity. The HDL helps keep your LDL level in check. Ask your doctor for your HDL level. If your HDL is low, increasing your physical activity can increase it, which may help reduce your LDL level. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High.