In the International System of Quantities, the decibel is defined as a unit of measurement for quantities of type level or level difference, which are defined as the logarithm of the ratio of power-or field-type quantities. The base-10 logarithm of the ratio of the two power levels is the number of bels. The number of decibels is ten times the number of bels (equivalently, a decibel is one-tenth of a bel). P and P 0 must measure the same type of quantity, and have the same units before calculating the ratio.
The electric field intensity unit dBu is the unit used extensively by the Federal Communications Commission when referring to field strength. True electric field strength is always expressed in some relative value of volts/meter-never in volts or milliwatts. A: There is a great deal of confusion when engineers, technicians, and equipment salespersons talk about units of antenna gain and field strength. People in different disciplines of the radio telecommunications industry seem to be speaking different languages and most people are not multi-lingual.
Main Difference between dBu and dB. The main difference between the unit dB and dBu is that dB is a power ratio, and dBu is a voltage ratio for an electronic signal.
The use of dBm and dBv has been deprecated and replaced by the dBu unit which is measured regardless of impedance. When +4dBu or -10dBV values are reconciled to the other's scale and the actual difference in voltage is compared you can see that there is a 11.79dB difference in voltage levels. The unit names dBu, dBv, dBV, and dBm all have case sensitive spellings and have specific defintions regarding audio signal levels. Professional analog gear is measured with dBu and dBv and dBm unit scales.
Power Units. dBm (sometimes dBmW or decibel-milliwatt) is an abbreviation for the power ratio in decibels (dB) of the measured absolute power of the signal referenced to one milliwatt (mW). The power of 0 dBm corresponds to a power of 1 mW. The decibel (dB) is a unit used to measure the intensity of a sound or the power or amplitude level of an electrical signal by comparing it with a given level on a logarithmic scale.
dBm. dBm is the standard unit of measure for levels of power based on a one milliwatt (mW) reference signal. The dBm measurement is very similar to dB (decibel); however, dB is a relative measure of the power of an input signal while dBm is always an absolute value based on a single milliwatt. Since its normally easier to conduct measurements of voltage rather than power, some prefer using the voltage of a system as a reference. As a result, the dBu unit of measure is used many times in audio systems vice dBm. The dBu unit is calculated by: A = 20log(V2/V1). In this formula, the reference level is 0.77 volts rms. In most audio equipment, the normal dBu line level is 4 dBu
P is the effective radiated power in the major lobe (max) in the horizontal plane (in watts, kW, etc.). Units of Field Intensity. There is also a great deal of confusion in the vocabulary for field strength (also called field intensity). Values are commonly expressed in dBu, dB V, and dBm. Each unit has both merit and common usage in certain disciplines in the radio communications industry. A: There is a great deal of confusion when engineers, technicians, and equipment salespersons talk about units of antenna gain and field strength. People in different disciplines of the radio telecommunications industry seem to be speaking different languages and most people are not multi-lingual.
The number of decibels is ten times the logarithm to base 10 of the ratio of two power quantities, or of the ratio of the squares of two field amplitude quantities. One decibel is one tenth of one bel, named in honor of Alexander Graham Bell; however, the bel is seldom used. The base-10 logarithm of the ratio of the two power levels is the number of bels. The number of decibels is ten times the number of bels (equivalently, a decibel is one-tenth of a bel). P and P 0 must measure the same type of quantity, and have the same units before calculating the ratio.
If the unit value of the reference is not explicitly stated, as in the dB gain of an amplifier, then the decibel value is considered relative. The SI does not permit attaching qualifiers to units, whether as suffix or prefix, other than standard SI prefixes. Therefore, even though the decibel is accepted for use alongside SI units, the practice of attaching a suffix to the basic dB unit, forming compound units such as dBm, dBu, dBA, etc., is not. The base-10 logarithm of the ratio of the two power levels is the number of bels. The number of decibels is ten times the number of bels (equivalently, a decibel is one-tenth of a bel). P and P 0 must measure the same type of quantity, and have the same units before calculating the ratio.