The SA node is the heart's natural pacemaker. The SA node consists of a cluster of cells that are situated in the upper part of the wall of the right atrium (the right upper chamber of the heart). The electrical impulses are generated there.
The sinoatrial node and the atrioventricular node controls the Cardiac Cycle-The Sinoatrial node is often called the Pace maker. The sinoatrial node is located in the wall of the right atrium. The Sinoatrial node emits a wave of electrical activity which reaches both Atria which causes them to contract, the wave of electrical activity is prevented from reaching the ventricles by the atrioventricular septum.
SA node: The SA node (SA stands for sinoatrial) is one of the major elements in the cardiac conduction system, the system that controls the heart rate. This stunningly designed system generates electrical impulses and conducts them throughout the muscle of the heart, stimulating the heart to contract and pump blood.
1 SA node (sinoatrial node) – known as the heart’s natural pacemaker. 2  The impulse starts in a small bundle of specialized cells located in the right atrium, called the SA node. 3  The electrical activity spreads through the walls of the atria and causes them to contract. 4  This forces blood into the ventricles.
The SA, or sinoatrial node, is a group of cells in the heart that produces electrical impulses to make your heart beat. Watch this animation to see the sinoatrial node in action.
For a normal heart, the SA node initiates an electrical impulse causing the heart to beat. This is why a normal heart rhythm is known as a Sinus rhythm. In the event that the sinoatrial node does not work, the heart is very resilient, and will use the AV node as the primary pacemaker.
If the heart can't get enough blood pumping through the body, the body -- and especially the brain -- suffers from lack of oxygen. An artificial pacemaker sends out electrical impulses to mimic the heart's natural pacemaker, the sinoatrial node (SA node), located in the right atrium.
SA node and AV Node: Setting the Pace. Your heart is more like a car engine that you might realize. Loosely speaking, the heart's chambers are the pistons, the contraction of those chambers is the piston stroke, and the ignited gas is the blood that keeps everything going. The heart even has a sparkplug.