Leachate is a widely used term in the environmental sciences where it has the specific meaning of a liquid that has dissolved or entrained environmentally harmful substances that may then enter the environment. It is most commonly used in the context of land-filling of putrescible or industrial waste. The leachate drainage system is responsible for the collection and transport of the leachate collected inside the liner. The pipe dimensions, type, and layout must all be planned with the weight and pressure of waste, and transport vehicles in mind. The pipes are located on the floor of the cell.
Leachate Collection. Leachate is liquid generated from rainfall and the natural decomposition of waste that is filtered through the landfill to a leachate collection system. The leachate collection system's job is to direct the leachate to collection sumps so it can be properly removed from the landfill. The leachate collection system is designed with a minimum 2 percent slope to drain to collection sumps. A leachate collection sump consists of an HDPE riser and submersible pump. Leachate drains to the leachate collection system, where it is transferred to a central collection pump and piped to an onsite holding tank or it can be re-circulated in the areas underlain by Subtitle D liner system.
Leachate Collection. Water percolation through wastes inside a landfill is inevitable. As the water seeps to the bottom of the cell it picks up contaminates creating highly acidic water otherwise known as leachate. This substance can be hazardous to the soil and ground water if it is not properly collected and removed.
For over 25 years, EPG Companies Inc. has provided landfill leachate collection systems and equipment to more than 800 landfills worldwide. With over 5,000 successful installations, EPG landfill leachate collection equipment is the choice among thousands of landfill professional. Call EPG Companies and talk with a Leachate Collection System Specialist today. Typical Landfill Systems & Components. 1  Process Control Systems. 2  Leachate System Controllers. 3  Transfer Pump Controllers. 4  Well Pump Controllers. 5  Lift Station Controllers. 6  Pneumatic
Leachate is liquid, primarily rainwater, which passes through the waste. The leachate collection system at American Landfill is comprised of a leachate drainage layer installed on the floor and side slopes of the lined landfill cells. A submersible sump-pump pumps leachate collected within the sump to an above ground 250,000-gallon leachate storage tank. The submersible pump in conjunction with an electrically programmed pressure transducer ensures that the leachate level on top of the liner system is below one foot.
Each leachate collection pipe is connected by long radius pipe fitting(s) to a leachate cleanout pipe(s). The leachate cleanout pipes are installed approximately 500 feet apart. Leachate lines are inspected after placing the first lift of waste and annually thereafter. A submersible sump-pump pumps leachate collected within the sump to an above ground 250,000-gallon leachate storage tank. The submersible pump in conjunction with an electrically programmed pressure transducer ensures that the leachate level on top of the liner system is below one foot.
LEACHATE COLLECTION SYSTEMS: THE ACHILLES' HEEL OF LANDFILLS. A landfill is a bathtub in the ground, and a bathtub can leak two ways: it can leak through a hole in the bottom (failure of its bottom liner), or it can fill up with fluid and spill over its sides. Either way, it's bad news. The basic problem is the fluid. Since the oldest leachate collection systems date from the early 1970s, humans have very little experience with the long-term performance of leachate collection systems. The hope is that a filter layer will solve the siltclogging problem, but after many decades the entire filter layer itself may clog.
The fact is, leachate collection systems can clog up in less than a decade and, when that happens, fluids begin to build up inside the landfill--a dangerous situation, as we have noted above. Leachate collection systems fail in several known ways. Since the oldest leachate collection systems date from the early 1970s, humans have very little experience with the long-term performance of leachate collection systems. The hope is that a filter layer will solve the siltclogging problem, but after many decades the entire filter layer itself may clog.
The collection pipe network of a leachate collection system drains, collects, and transports leachate through the drainage layer to a collection sump where it is removed for treatment or disposal. The pipes also serve as drains within the drainage layer to minimize the mounding of leachate in the layer. The leachate drainage system is responsible for the collection and transport of the leachate collected inside the liner. The pipe dimensions, type, and layout must all be planned with the weight and pressure of waste, and transport vehicles in mind. The pipes are located on the floor of the cell.