Amines arise as a result of protein breaking down; aged, overcooked and processed meats are high in amines. Browning, grilling, charring will increase amine level in comparison with food cooked by microwave or steaming. Amines also increase in ripening fruits that go soft, e.g. banana, avocado. Glutamate is found in many foods in a natural protein-bound form. It is important in the enjoyable flavour of tomatoes, aged cheese and mushrooms, and most notably found in a Japanese seaweed sauce from which MSG was extracted.
Migraines, depression and other symptoms. Amines have been associated with migraines and headaches, as well as other symptoms of food intolerance, including irritable bowel symptoms, eczema and depression.
Phone 09 537 4980 MMC FACT SHEET 907 AMINE CONTENT OF FOODS Dr Richard J Coleman, 128 Millhouse Drive, Howick, Auckland. Phone 09 537 4980 Amines, as well as glutamates and salicylates, are organic compounds that can act on the human brain and blood vessels. These naturally-occurring components of food have been associated with a variety of symptoms including mental confusion, depression, and migraine headaches.
The following guidelines are provided where amines, particularly tyramine, are suspect in headaches, migraines or other food sensitivity symptoms. Amines should not be the only exclusions since where they cause reactions other food chemicals are also likely to also be a problem.
Amines are found naturally in some fruits and vegetables, however in the case of meat, dairy products, alcoholic drinks and other fermented foods, amines are usually formed by bacterial degradation. This means that the amine content of foods is highly variable and very hard to quantify.
The table lists foods high in amines, with naturally occurring glutamates or added MSG marked * . Those marked # also high in salicylates, which occur naturally in many fruits, vegetables, and herbs, but which in some people can cause distressing symptoms and health problems.
Amines are a group of chemicals that often cause reactions in food sensitive people with migraines. The interesting thing is that they can also aggravate chronic daily headaches, IBS [Irritable Bowel Syndrome], ADHD, and other symptoms.