The following are recommended for prevention of VRE and MRSA in hospitals and may be adapted for use in non-hospital healthcare facilities: 1  Obtain stool cultures or rectal swab cultures of roommates of patients newly found to be infected or colonized with VRE, and nasal swabs for MRSA. 1 When cohorting patients with the same MRSA is not possible, place MRSA patients in rooms with patients who are at low risk for acquisition of MRSA and associated adverse outcomes from infection and are likely to have short lengths of stay.
Nasal MRSA colonization also strongly predicted antimicrobial resistance in other organisms. A negative nasal test was less useful; only 217 of 323 patients (67.2%; 95% CI, 61.8, 72.3) with clinical cultures involving MRSA had detectable, concomitant nasal MRSA colonization. Nasal tests to rule out MRSA infection. To function as an ideal rule-out test, nasal MRSA tests would be consistently positive in the presence of clinical MRSA. We found that 217 of 323 patients (67.2%; 95% CI, 61.8, 72.3) whose clinical cultures involved MRSA had a positive nasal real-time PCR test.
MRSA: Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 1  Staphylococcus aureus, often referred to simply as staph, are bacteria commonly carried on the skin or in the nose of healthy people. 1 An MRSA BSI is when a patient has a positive test for MRSA in the blood along with evidence of an infection, such as a fever. 2  MRSA BSIs are often secondary infections; that is, the result of an MRSA infection in another place, such as the lungs (pneumonia) or a wound.
Objective. To determine the proportion of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) detections identified by nasal swabbing using agar culture in comparison with multiple body site testing using agar and nutrient broth culture. Design. Cross-sectional study. Patients. Patients were screened for MRSA via multiple body site swabs (nasal, throat, axillary, perineal, and wound/invasive device sites) cultured individually on chromogenic agar and pooled in nutrient broth. Combined results from all sites and cultures provided a gold-standard estimate of true MRSA prevalence.
Nasal swabbing using agar culture identified two-thirds of the total MRSA carriers who were diagnosed by multiple body site screening using agar plus nutrient broth culture. Nasal swab screening combined with culture on agar is a commonly applied method for detecting MRSA carriage. 
1 Your doctor may take a sample from your infected skin, nose, blood, urine or saliva and send it to the lab. 2  This test sample is called a “culture”. 3  If the lab finds MRSA in the test sample, the test is positive; this means that you have MRSA in or on your body. 1 An MRSA BSI is when a patient has a positive test for MRSA in the blood along with evidence of an infection, such as a fever. 2  MRSA BSIs are often secondary infections; that is, the result of an MRSA infection in another place, such as the lungs (pneumonia) or a wound.
1 Staphylococcus aureus, often referred to simply as staph, are bacteria commonly carried on the skin or in the nose of healthy people. 2  Approximately 25% to 30% of people in general are colonized (when bacteria are present, but not causing an infection) in the nose with staph bacteria. 1 An MRSA BSI is when a patient has a positive test for MRSA in the blood along with evidence of an infection, such as a fever. 2  MRSA BSIs are often secondary infections; that is, the result of an MRSA infection in another place, such as the lungs (pneumonia) or a wound.
If either a culture or a molecular test is positive for MRSA, then the person is colonized with MRSA at the site that was tested, which is usually the nares (nostrils). If a wound site culture of a person treated for MRSA is still positive, then the bacteria are still present. If the nasal screen or wound site culture is negative, then MRSA are either not present or are present in numbers too low to be detected by the test. ^ Back to top. Some hospitals have instituted measures to control the spread of MRSA by screening those patients they feel are at risk of being colonized with these resistant bacteria (a carrier) or all new admissions to the hospital.
A methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) screen is a test that looks solely for the presence of MRSA and no other pathogens. It is primarily used to identify the presence of MRSA in a colonized person. Some hospitals have instituted measures to control the spread of MRSA by screening those patients they feel are at risk of being colonized with these resistant bacteria (a carrier) or all new admissions to the hospital.