1 This unique aspect of beet greens gives them a calcium:magnesium ratio of 1.6:1, in comparison to the ratio in turnip greens of 6.2:1, or the ratio in mustard greens of 9.2:1. 2  Both beet greens and beet roots can provide you with outstanding nourishment. You can substitute the spinach in any of the spinach recipes with beet greens: 1  Poached Eggs over Spinach. 2  Poached Eggs over Spinach & Mushrooms. 3  Mediterranean Baby Spinach Salad. 4  Warm Spinach Salad with Tuna.
These are but a few of the many nutrients, vitamins and minerals that can be found in beets and beet greens. Beets are particularly beneficial to women whom are pregnant, as the vitamin B and iron are very beneficial to new growth cells during pregnancy and replenishing iron in the woman’s body. Buy raw beets, stem, root and all. Remove stem with leaves and save for other use (also very high in nutrients). Gently wash beet, slice into quarters and steam for 15 minutes. Let cool then add oNE half into blender along with carrots, coconut water, kale, a pinch of ginger and 3 cubes of ice. Blend smooth and enjoy.
Beet greens nutrition facts. Beet greens are young, leafy-tops of the beetroot plant. Indeed, beet tops carry more minerals, vitamins and health benefiting pigment antioxidants than its taproot, and yet they come as one of the very low calories leafy-greens. The beet plant reaches about 1 to 2 feet from the ground surface in height. Depending upon the cultivar type, its long petioled leaves may feature pink, light green, white and crimson red veins and broad, deep-green succulent leaves. Its tops are most sought after while their leaves young, tender and crispy.
Whether you like them in a salad, sauteed or added to soup, beet greens boost the nutrients in any dish they're added to. Even though some nutrients, especially vitamin C, are lost when greens are cooked, when you compare a 1-cup serving of raw to cooked beet greens, you gain more nutrients from the cooked version.
Bones Need Vitamins, Too. Dark, leafy greens, including beet leaves, are the best sources of vitamin K. This vitamin is needed to make proteins that stop bleeding by clotting blood. You also need vitamin K to keep your bones strong and prevent osteoporosis. Even though some nutrients, especially vitamin C, are lost when greens are cooked, when you compare a 1-cup serving of raw to cooked beet greens, you gain more nutrients from the cooked version.
Its leaves are also rich source of minerals like magnesium, copper, calcium, sodium, potassium, iron, manganese, and phosphorus. Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids that helps controlling heart rate and blood pressure by countering effects of sodium. The beet plant reaches about 1 to 2 feet from the ground surface in height. Depending upon the cultivar type, its long petioled leaves may feature pink, light green, white and crimson red veins and broad, deep-green succulent leaves. Its tops are most sought after while their leaves young, tender and crispy.
Beet greens are an excellent source of vitamin K, vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids), vitamin C, copper, potassium, manganese, vitamin B2, magnesium, vitamin E, fiber, and calcium. They are a very good source of iron, vitamins B1, B6, and pantothenic acid, as well as phosphorus and protein. You can substitute the spinach in any of the spinach recipes with beet greens: 1  Poached Eggs over Spinach. 2  Poached Eggs over Spinach & Mushrooms. 3  Mediterranean Baby Spinach Salad. 4  Warm Spinach Salad with Tuna.
Health Benefits of Beet Greens. Besides supplying good amounts of protein, phosphorus, and zinc, beet greens are also a great source of fiber. Packed with antioxidants, they’re high in vitamin B6, magnesium, potassium, copper, and manganese, and low in fat and cholesterol. Enjoy beet greens by themselves as a salad or with other leafy vegetables, or saute sauté them in a bit of olive oil or balsamic vinegar and salt for a delicious side. Dish’here s a great: tip if you find yourself with too many beet, greens’don t throw them. Away freeze them and use for soup. stock
Beet tops are one of very versatile and nutritious green leafy vegetables. The greens indeed very low in calories; 100 g hold just 22 calories. Nonetheless, they are one of the healthiest greens recommended in the diet for their low fat, no cholesterol but health benefiting vitamins, minerals and anti-oxidants. The beet plant reaches about 1 to 2 feet from the ground surface in height. Depending upon the cultivar type, its long petioled leaves may feature pink, light green, white and crimson red veins and broad, deep-green succulent leaves. Its tops are most sought after while their leaves young, tender and crispy.
In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Beet greens is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more. You can substitute the spinach in any of the spinach recipes with beet greens: 1  Poached Eggs over Spinach. 2  Poached Eggs over Spinach & Mushrooms. 3  Mediterranean Baby Spinach Salad. 4  Warm Spinach Salad with Tuna.