Noun. 1. cream of tartar-a salt used especially in baking powder. potassium bitartrate, potassium hydrogen tartrate, tartar. salt-a compound formed by replacing hydrogen in an acid by a metal (or a radical that acts like a metal). 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
Cream of tartar or potassium hydrogen tartrate is a fine white powder. Often used when beating egg whites. Season: available year-round. 
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: cream of tartar, tartar, potassium bitartrate, potassium hydrogen tartrate (noun). a salt used especially in baking powder. dragon, tartar (noun). a fiercely vigilant and unpleasant woman. Tatar, Tartar, Mongol Tatar (noun). Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tartar (Noun). A red compound deposited during wine making; mostly potassium hydrogen tartrate-a source of cream of tartar. tartar (Noun). A hard yellow deposit on the teeth. tartar (Noun). (sometimes capitalised) A fearsome or angrily violent person.
The name is a shortening of the original  a à la  tartare or served with tartar , sauce a dish popular in the 19th and early 20th. centuries Although the word 'tartare' presumably refers to the Tartar people of Central Asia, and there are many stories connecting steak tartare with them, steak tartare is not related to Tatar cuisine. A à la tartare or simply tartare still means served with tartar sauce for some, dishes mostly fried. fish
Definition of CREAM OF TARTAR. : a white crystalline salt C4H5KO6 used especially in baking powder and in certain treatments of metals. ADVERTISEMENT.
1. : a substance consisting essentially of cream of tartar that is derived from the juice of grapes and deposited in wine casks together with yeast and other suspended matters as a pale or dark reddish crust or sediment; especially: a recrystallized product yielding cream of tartar on further purification. 2. 
1. tartar-a salt used especially in baking powder. cream of tartar, potassium bitartrate, potassium hydrogen tartrate. salt-a compound formed by replacing hydrogen in an acid by a metal (or a radical that acts like a metal). tartar. n. 1. (Dentistry) dentistry a hard crusty deposit on the teeth, consisting of food, cellular debris, and mineral salts. 2. (Elements & Compounds) Also called: argol a brownish-red substance consisting mainly of potassium hydrogen tartrate, present in grape juice and deposited during the fermentation of wine
The Tatars (Mongolic татар, Old Turkic tatar; modern Volga Tatar: татарлар, Tatarlar تاتارلار; Russian: татары) are a Turkic people living in Asia and Europe. The name Tatar first appears in written form on the Kul Tigin monument as Otuz Tatar Bodun ('Thirty Tatar' tribe) CE. 732. Tatars formed one of the five major tribal confederations (khanlig) in the Mongolian plateau in the 12th century.
Definition: Tartar is the hardened product of longstanding plaque accumulating minerals from the saliva and foods. Plaque is the soft accummulation of food debris and bacteria around teeth. These bacteria feed on left over food in the mouth to excrete toxins that irritate the gums and dissolve the bone. 1 \Tartar\, n. 2  1. [Per. 3  T[=a]t[=a]r, of Tartar origin.] A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually, {Tatar}.