1 The Department of Energy finds that “ Among a large sample of wind projects installed in 2012, the capacity-weighted average installed cost stood at nearly $1,940/kW, down almost $200/kW from the reported average cost in 2011 and down almost $300/kW from the reported average cost in both 2009 and 2010 .” [3]. The Department of Energy, below, depicts the cost reduction in wind energy alongside U.S. wind energy deployment, showing a decrease in cost of more than 90% since the early 1980's.
In this paper, the hidden costs of wind (e.g. the cost of back-up power) added to the levelized cost of wind totals 15.1 cents per kilowatt-hour if natural gas is used as the back-up power and 19.2 cents per kilowatt-hour if coal is used as the back-up power. EIA makes a critical judgment call when estimating wind energy costs by assuming a capacity factor of 40%. Barring a major future technological breakthrough, actual U.S. wind energy capacity factors bump along at or below 25% (as low as 22%) in recent years, even after the advent of the latest turbine designs.
The BNEF study shows that the global average levelised cost of electricity, or LCOE, for onshore wind nudged downwards from $85 per megawatt-hour in the first half of the year, to $83 in H2, while that for crystalline silicon PV solar fell from $129 to $122. In the UK, onshore wind comes in on average at $85 per MWh in the second half of 2015, compared to $115 for combined-cycle gas and $115 for coal-fired power; in Germany, onshore wind is at $80, compared to $118 for gas and $106 for coal.
Components of levelized cost of energy. Our dashboards present data on what’s known as the levelized cost of energy. In essence, this analysis offers an apples-to-apples comparison of the costs of financing, building, operating, and maintaining a power plant. The values are expressed in dollars per megawatt-hour. Onshore wind has the lowest average levelized cost in this analysis at $59 per megawatt-hour, and utility-scale photovoltaic plants weren’t far behind at $79.
The levelized cost of electricity (LCOE), also known as Levelized Energy Cost (LEC), is the net present value of the unit-cost of electricity over the lifetime of a generating asset. It is often taken as a proxy for the average price that the generating asset must receive in a market to break even over its lifetime. In comparison, coal-fired plants are between 66 USD and $151 per MWh, nuclear power at 124 USD per MWh. Small photovoltaic power plants on roofs of houses are still at 126-265 USD per MWh, but which can do without electricity transport costs. Onshore wind turbines are 37-81
Wind and solar costs falling. The levelized cost of some wind and solar technologies has plummeted in recent years. The graphic below shows that the average cost of onshore wind has fallen from $135 per megawatt-hour in 2009 to $59 in 2014. That’s a 56 percent drop in five years. Onshore wind has the lowest average levelized cost in this analysis at $59 per megawatt-hour, and utility-scale photovoltaic plants weren’t far behind at $79.
Levelized Cost of Energy Calculator. The levelized cost of energy (LCOE) calculator provides a simple calculator for both utility-scale and distributed generation (DG) renewable energy technologies that compares the combination of capital costs, operations and maintenance (O&M), performance, and fuel costs. 
Recent improvements in turbine technology has reduced the cost of wind energy, allowing electricity consumers and utilities to lock in low, affordable electricity rates through 20 to 30 year contracts. GO TO: Cost of Wind Energy: PPA, Capital Cost, and Performance. The Department of Energy, below, depicts the cost reduction in wind energy alongside U.S. wind energy deployment, showing a decrease in cost of more than 90% since the early 1980's.
The levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) is a measure of a power source which attempts to compare different methods of electricity generation on a comparable basis. In comparison, coal-fired plants are between 66 USD and $151 per MWh, nuclear power at 124 USD per MWh. Small photovoltaic power plants on roofs of houses are still at 126-265 USD per MWh, but which can do without electricity transport costs. Onshore wind turbines are 37-81
A renewable energy plant is initially more expensive to build, but has very low maintenance costs, and no fuel cost, over its 20-30 year life. As the following 2012 U.S. Govt. forecast illustrates, LCOE estimates for conventional sources of power depend on very uncertain fuel cost estimates. The same rule applies to wind’s levelized cost. Wind turbines located on one side of a valley may be far more economical than turbines located on the other side of the same valley. An understanding of prevailing wind patterns is critical is a critical component of the planning process.