The family Canidae is nicknamed the dog family.. Canidae includes coyotes, dogs, foxes, jackals and wolves; all exibiting great variety in flexibility in diet and behavior as well as complex social organization. The grey wolf is a part of the dog family with Vulpes vulpes. 
Vulpes is a genus of the Canidae. The members of this genus are colloquially referred to as true foxes, meaning they form a proper clade. The word ‘ fox ’ occurs on the common names of species. True foxes are distinguished from members of the genus Canis such as dogs, wolves, coyotes, and jackals by their smaller size (5-11 kg) and flatter skulls. The oldest known fossil species within Vulpes is Vulpes riffautae, which dates back to the late Miocene (which is within the Neogene) of Chad. The deposits these fossils are found within are about 7 million years old, which might make them the earliest Canidae in the Old World.
Description of Species: The red fox Vulpes vulpes resembles a small dog with a long bushy tail, large pointed ears and a pointed muzzle. As these small canines’ name suggests, the red fox’s fur is typically a dark reddish-brown to a soft yellowish-red (Ables 1975). A variety of color variations exist. Some so-called red foxes have silver-tipped black fur (Grater 1978), which was sought after by the silver fox fur industry.
The red fox, Vulpes vulpes, is the largest of the true foxes and the most abundant wild member of the Carnivora, being present across the entire Northern Hemisphere from the Arctic Circle to North Africa, North America and Eurasia. It is listed as least concern by the IUCN. Although the red fox tends to kill smaller predators, including other fox species, it is vulnerable to attack from larger predators, such as wolves, coyotes, golden jackals and medium-and large-sized felines.
By Laura Klappenbach. The red fox (Vulpes vulpes) is the largest of all the true foxes. The red fox is a widespread carnivore that inhabits a range that includes most of the Northern Hemisphere. Red foxes have long bodies and short legs. They have a long tail that measures more than half of its body length. In areas where red foxes coexist with coyotes, the two species often keep to their own territories and it is thought that foxes actively avoid coyotes. Red foxes occupy a wide range that includes most of the northern hemisphere to the Arctic Circle.
Among the true foxes, the red fox represents a more progressive form in the direction of carnivory. Apart from its large size, the red fox is distinguished from other fox species by its ability to adapt quickly to new environments. Although the red fox tends to kill smaller predators, including other fox species, it is vulnerable to attack from larger predators, such as wolves, coyotes, golden jackals and medium-and large-sized felines.
The red fox is considered a more specialised form of Vulpes than the Afghan, corsac and Bengal foxes in the direction of size and adaptation to carnivory; the skull displays much fewer neotenous traits than in other species, and its facial area is more developed. Although the red fox tends to kill smaller predators, including other fox species, it is vulnerable to attack from larger predators, such as wolves, coyotes, golden jackals and medium-and large-sized felines.
Genus. Vulpes. The size of a small dog, the red fox (Vulpes vulpes) is the largest member of the genus Vulpes and is well-known for its large bushy tail, which is often tipped with white. Top facts. 1  The red fox is the largest of the true foxes, and has the widest distribution of any member of the order Carnivora. 2  Red foxes can produce 28 different vocalisations. 3  The male red fox is referred to as a dog, while the female is known as a vixen.
The red fox is the most abundant and most widely distributed species of Vulpes. They currently live in most sections of the Northern Hemisphere. They also are present in Australia, though were brought there by humans for fox hunting in the 1830s and are considered an invasive species. The oldest known fossil species within Vulpes is Vulpes riffautae, which dates back to the late Miocene (which is within the Neogene) of Chad. The deposits these fossils are found within are about 7 million years old, which might make them the earliest Canidae in the Old World.