1 You can keep cut potatoes in the fridge as follows: Cover the cut, raw potatoes completely with cold water and refrigerate; use the cut potatoes within 24 hours. 2  Can you freeze raw potatoes? 3  Raw potatoes do not freeze well; to further extend the shelf life of potatoes, cook them first before freezing. 1 To further extend the shelf life of potatoes, store in a cool (45-55° F) dark area; under those storage conditions, potatoes will last about 2-3 months.
1 To maximize the shelf life of potatoes, do not store potatoes near onions, as the chemical reaction will speed the spoilage of both; store potatoes in a loosely covered bag or basket to allow for air circulation. 1 To further extend the shelf life of potatoes, store in a cool (45-55° F) dark area; under those storage conditions, potatoes will last about 2-3 months.
Sweet potatoes should be stored the same way as white potatoes. The usual advice is not to refrigerate them, but they will tolerate refrigeration as long as they have been “cured” at 85°F for 5-8 days to allow the skins to dry out and harden. Raw whole potatoes can be stored wrapped or unwrapped. If wrapped, they should be loosely wrapped or wrapped in perforated material. Do not wash potatoes prior to storing them. Residual moisture will accelerate spoilage and mold growth.
Cure the sweet potatoes for 1 to 2 weeks. Keep the roots in a room or other location that reaches between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (24 and 27 degrees Celsius) with relative humidity of 90 to 95 percent. 1  The sweet potatoes need to cure for at least 7 days, but they can be kept there for as many as 14 days.
The shelf life of potatoes depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method, how the potatoes were stored, and the humidity of your climate. Once prepared, potatoes should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. Raw potatoes do not freeze well, but french fries are made for the freezer. The best form to freeze is the partially cooked french fry.
Potato Storing After Harvest. The tubers can last for six to eight months when stored in cool temperatures. When storing garden potatoes in temperatures above 40 degrees Fahrenheit, they will only last three or four months. The spuds will also shrivel and may sprout. Save a few of these for sowing in April or May.
6- At room temperature they will keep for about one to two weeks, so try to use them within that time frame. 7- In case you live in the tropics, desert area or is simply summer (higher temperatures) and use a lot of potatoes weekly, then you should store them in a dark corner using a vegetable storage rack. 
1 Whole, raw potatoes should not be refrigerated; doing so can give them a sweet taste and cause them to darken when cooked. 2  You can keep cut potatoes in the fridge as follows: Cover the cut, raw potatoes completely with cold water and refrigerate; use the cut potatoes within 24 hours. 1 To further extend the shelf life of potatoes, store in a cool (45-55° F) dark area; under those storage conditions, potatoes will last about 2-3 months.
Potatoes are best stored in a cool dark place. Ideally, potatoes should be stored in a cellar, where they can remain for several months at a temperature of 45°F to 50°F. Keeping them at a higher temperature will cause them to shrink and sprout, especially if there is also low humidity. Once prepared, potatoes should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. Raw potatoes do not freeze well, but french fries are made for the freezer. The best form to freeze is the partially cooked french fry.