Confidence votes 92.5K. You'll need to get a degree in psychology and then do some training once qualified, to become a psychiatrist you need to train as a doctor and then specialize. Answer A master's or doctoral degree, and a license, are required for most psychologists. You'll need to get a degree in psychology and then do some training once qualified, to become a psychiatrist you need to train as a doctor and then specialize
Skills. Note: The technical and functional skills listed below are based on general occupational qualifications for Counseling Psychologist commonly recognized by most employers. Typically, you will not be required to have all of the skills listed to be a successful performer. 
Necessary Training. In order to become licensed and certified as a child psychologist, you'll need to gain hands-on training by participating in an internship. The American Board of Professional Psychology requires a one-year full-time internship or a two-year part-time internship for certification. If you're interested in becoming a child psychologist, prepare to devote close to a decade to your education. First, you'll be required to earn a bachelor's degree in the field of your choice, though many aspiring child psychologists choose to major in psychology, social work or a related field.
To become a chartered member of the society (BPS) through the counselling psychology training route you will need the following qualifications: 1  Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC, formerly known as GBR). 2  This can be achieved by completing a society accredited degree or conversion course. 
Counseling psychology is a type of applied psychology that can be used to help people gain control of their feelings. This type of psychology focuses on treating individuals with a variety of different emotional, behavioral, and social problems or disorders. A number of universities offer Master's and Doctoral degrees in counseling psychology. The curriculum requirements to become a counseling psychologist are typically very similar from one university to the next.
Once you are qualified as a psychologist, you will be eligible for registration with the HCPC. To start a degree course you will usually need five GCSEs (A-C), including English, maths and in some cases a science, plus three A-levels. Alternative qualifications, such an Access to Higher Education course may be accepted. 
Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. Undergraduate Studies. Before you begin formal training in graduate school to become a therapist, you will have to finish a bachelor's degree at a college or university. A major in a field such as psychology or social work can give you the strong background you will need to excel in graduate school.
Those interested in counseling psychology careers will usually start by earning a four year Bachelor's degree in psychology. In order to start their careers, however, advanced degrees are usually necessary. A number of universities offer Master's and Doctoral degrees in counseling psychology. The curriculum requirements to become a counseling psychologist are typically very similar from one university to the next. In addition to learning the fundamentals of psychology and research methods, future counseling psychologists will also often learn about different therapy and counseling techniques