» Social News. Gary Jules is a secret American Idol fan. So when Adam Lambert sang Mad World on Tuesday night s show, the man who helped make that song famous was watching. I was actually sneakily watching it, Jules told Seacoastonline by phone Wednesday from his home in Asheville, N.C. 
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Mad World is a song originally written by Roland Orzabal of the British band Tears for Fears. It was released in 1982 and reached number 3 on the UK Singles chart and later number 2 in South Africa, and was included on the album The Hurting which was released early in 1983. 
erasure   Answer: The original version of Mad World is by Tears for Fears. It was written by Roland Orzabal, sung by Curt Smith, released as a single in September of 19 … 82, and appeared on their album The Hurting. It was the first chart hit for the band, peaking at #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November of '82. The song would eventually become Tears for Fears' first international hit, reaching the Top 40 in several countries between 1982 and 1983. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.
It is so cool! Gives me the chills everytime, so incredibly rad. Mad World is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982.
Answer by Terry Mey.  Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears. Written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith, it was the band's third single release and first chart hit, reaching #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1982. Both Mad World and its B-side, Ideas As Opiates, would turn up on the band's debut LP The Hurting the following year. The song would eventually become Tears for Fears' first international hit, reaching the Top 40 in several countries between 1982 and 1983. Gary Jules recorded a cover of the song Mad World for the film Donnie Darko and later released it as a single in December 2003.
Confidence votes 10.0K. erasure. Answer: The original version of Mad World is by Tears for Fears. It was written by Roland Orzabal, sung by Curt Smith, released as a single in September of 1982, and appeared on their album The Hurting. It was the first chart hit for the band, peaking at #3 on the UK Singles Chart in November of '82. 'This was a hit for Tears For Fears in 1983 and then hit the charts  again twenty years later in 2003 with a version done by Gary Jules.
Mad World  is a song by the British band Tears for Fears, written by Roland Orzabal and sung by bassist Curt Smith. Two decades later, Mad World made a popular resurgence when it was covered in a much slower and sombre minimalist style by Michael Andrews and Gary Jules for the soundtrack to the movie Donnie Darko in 2001. This version reached #1 in the UK in December 2003, and also became an international hit.
Original video from 1983: Mad World by Tears for Fears. This was the third single from their first album The Hurting. Audio and video are correct and true to the original, although the video portion has been digitally enhanced. 
The original singer; Curt Smith from Tears for Fears sings Mad World with Gary Jules on the Streamin Garage stage for Striped Down Live. Gary's version of the Tears For Fears song was featured in the movie Donnie Darko and Gears of War. Also check out the official video: The original video of Gary Jules' and Michael Andrews' cover version of Mad World, directed by Michel Gondry. Throughout the video children are making animated figures on the sidewalk below. (the song was featured in the movie Donnie Darko.