Types of fungus – mushrooms (1st of 6). Mushrooms are the spore-producing structures of some fungi. A mushroom consists of a stalk and a cap, and in most species the spores are formed on gills. When ripe, the spores fall downwards and are carried away from the mushroom on air currents. 
Best Answer: Actually, a mushroom is a fungus. Scientists used to think that mushrooms and other fungi (plural of fungus) were plants. Now they know that fungi are very different from plants. Fungi get their food in a different way than plants. They also reproduce differently from plants. Fungi are now considered a completely different form of life. A mushroom is the visible part of the fungus. Mushrooms are where some fungi make spores. A spore is like a tiny seed that can grow into a whole new fungus.
So, fungi is NOT a mushroom and every mushrooms is under the big umbrella of the FUNGI kingdom.   Thus, fungi is   * A kingdom of non-photosynthetic organisms. They use spores for reproduction purposes. Mushrooms are classified as fungi rather than plants because first of all, they do not contain chlorophyll to make their own food, so as a result they are not green and do not … need sunlight to grow. Second, there are no actual roots, leaves, or stems. (the tightly packed hyphae make the stem/stalk seem solid)
A mushroom is a fungus and not a plant because plants are autotrophs, which means that they can make their own food. Mushrooms (and all other fungi) need to get food from othe … r organisms, which means they are heterotrophs. Animals are also heterotrophs, but fungi are not animals because animals can move. 
The standard for the name mushroom is the cultivated white button mushroom, Agaricus bisporus; hence the word mushroom is most often applied to those fungi (Basidiomycota, Agaricomycetes) that have a stem (stipe), a cap (pileus), and gills (lamellae, sing. lamella) on the underside of the cap. Other mushrooms are not gilled, so the term mushroom is loosely used, and giving a full account of their classifications is difficult. Some have pores underneath (and are usually called boletes), others have spines, such as the hedgehog mushroom and other tooth fungi, and so on.
Mushroom describes a variety of gilled fungi, with or without stems, and the term is used even more generally, to describe both the fleshy fruiting bodies of some Ascomycota and the woody or leathery fruiting bodies of some Basidiomycota, depending upon the context of the word. Other mushrooms are not gilled, so the term mushroom is loosely used, and giving a full account of their classifications is difficult. Some have pores underneath (and are usually called boletes), others have spines, such as the hedgehog mushroom and other tooth fungi, and so on.
Defining mushrooms. All mushrooms are fungi, but not all fungi are mushrooms. For those fungi that produce them, the mushroom plays a similar role to a flower or a fruit in plants. Some part of each mature mushroom produces microscopic spores that are similar to pollen or seeds, sometimes numbering in the trillions [1].
What we recognize as a mushroom or toadstool is the fruiting body. The fruiting body or fruit body in fungi is called the sporocarp. Details: When most people see a sporocarp … they call this a mushroom, but this fleshy fruiting body is only the visible part of the living organism that is popular for eating. Mushrooms are classified as fungi rather than plants because first of all, they do not contain chlorophyll to make their own food, so as a result they are not green and do not … need sunlight to grow. Second, there are no actual roots, leaves, or stems. (the tightly packed hyphae make the stem/stalk seem solid)
A mushroom (or toadstool) is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source. Other mushrooms are not gilled, so the term mushroom is loosely used, and giving a full account of their classifications is difficult. Some have pores underneath (and are usually called boletes), others have spines, such as the hedgehog mushroom and other tooth fungi, and so on.