Hallmark symptoms of ciguatera in humans include gastrointestinal and neurological effects. Gastrointestinal symptoms include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, usually followed by neurological symptoms such as headaches, muscle aches, paresthesia, numbness, ataxia, vertigo, and hallucinations. 
1 HABs. 2  Ciguatera. 3  About Ciguatera. 4  Ciguatera fish poisoning (or ciguatera) is an illness caused by eating fish that contain toxins produced by a marine microalgae called Gambierdiscus toxicus. 5  People who have ciguatera may experience nausea, vomiting, and neurologic symptoms such as tingling fingers or toes. 1 NCEH. 2  HABs. 3  Ciguatera. 4  About Ciguatera. 5  Ciguatera fish poisoning (or ciguatera) is an illness caused by eating fish that contain toxins produced by a marine microalgae called Gambierdiscus toxicus. 6
Ciguatera is a foodborne illness caused by eating certain reef fish whose flesh is contaminated with toxins originally produced by dinoflagellates such as Gambierdiscus toxicus which live in tropical and subtropical waters. 
The most commonly reported marine toxin disease in the world is Ciguatera, associated with consumption of contaminated reef fish such as barracuda, grouper, and snapper. For example, CDC and others estimate that only 2-10% of Ciguatera cases are actually reported in the United States. In the US Virgin Islands, there are an estimated 300 cases per 10,000 or 3% of the population per year; a similar rate is found in the French West Indies.
1 About Ciguatera. 2  Ciguatera fish poisoning (or ciguatera) is an illness caused by eating fish that contain toxins produced by a marine microalgae called Gambierdiscus toxicus. 1 NCEH. 2  HABs. 3  Ciguatera. 4  About Ciguatera. 5  Ciguatera fish poisoning (or ciguatera) is an illness caused by eating fish that contain toxins produced by a marine microalgae called Gambierdiscus toxicus. 6  People who have ciguatera may experience nausea, vomiting, and neurologic symptoms such as tingling fingers or toe
1 Ciguatera fish poisoning (or ciguatera) is an illness caused by eating fish that contain toxins produced by a marine microalgae called Gambierdiscus toxicus. 2  People who have ciguatera may experience nausea, vomiting, and neurologic symptoms such as tingling fingers or toes. 1 NCEH. 2  HABs. 3  Ciguatera. 4  About Ciguatera. 5  Ciguatera fish poisoning (or ciguatera) is an illness caused by eating fish that contain toxins produced by a marine microalgae called Gambierdiscus toxicus. 6
Ciguatera fish poisoning is an illness caused by eating tropical reef fish that have accumulated a poison called ciguatoxin. Ciguatoxin is produced by microscopic organisms that grow on the surface of marine algae, seaweed, or coral. The poison gets into plant-eating fish when they feed on the algae or seaweed. What are the symptoms of ciguatera fish poisoning? 1  numbness, tingling, or a burning sensation around mouth, hands, or feet; 2  joint or muscle pains with weakness or cramps; 3  vomiting, diarrhea, chills, itching, headache, sweating, and dizziness;
Ciguatera toxin tends to accumulate in large predator fish (weight over 2 Kg or about 4.5 lbs), such as the barracuda and other carnivorous reef fish, because they eat other fish that consume toxin-producing algae (dinoflagellates), which live in coral reef waters. The toxin has highest concentrations in fish visceral and sex organs. Ciguatera toxin is harmless to fish, but poisonous to humans. The toxin is odorless and tasteless, and cooking does not destroy the toxin. Eating ciguatera-contaminated tropical or subtropical fish is the main way that humans are exposed to
Ciguatera is a form of fish flesh poisoning, which is exactly what ichthyosarcotoxin means! It is grossly under reported in tropical areas of the world where it is often listed as sick to one's stomach or gut flu, etc. 