We have designed a very basic panhard bar for the 04-08 F150. What does a panhard bar do? Well, it reduces body roll, increases cornering capability, and keeps your wheels firmly planted on the ground. When you turn a corner, at any speed, your rearend tends to move back and forth under your truck. 
Panhard Bar Explained. Track Bar Explained: A track bar is also known as a panhard bar. It’s purpose is to locate the rear axle along the centerline of the chassis.
A Mustang's Panhard Bar Explained. The main purpose of a panhard bar is to provide lateral stability to the rear axle. This was intended to be the job of the upper control arms, but they are just not enough. It is the perfect solution to solving the common problems found in the 1999-2004 Mustang's four link suspension. Ford decided against putting a panhard bar on this model from the factory, most likely to save money. Now, you can find a panhard bar on all '05 model Mustangs.
A Panhard rod (also called Panhard bar or track bar) is a suspension link that provides lateral location of the axle. Originally invented by the Panhard automobile company of France in the early twentieth century, this device has been widely used ever since. Its major disadvantage is that the axle must necessarily move in an arc relative to the body, with the radius equal to the length of the Panhard rod. If the rod is too short, it allows excessive sideways movement between the axle and the body at the ends of the spring travel.
The Panhard bar just keeps everything basically centered under the car (I say basically because it moves in a slight arc that moves your rear end a fraction of an inch to one side as the rear suspension is compressed). Anyway, the aftermarket bar sounds like a pretty good deal. Panhard bar...what does it do, what will it improve? I am headding down to summit tomorrow and was told by a buddy that they have a Moroso Panhard bar for 3rd gens on clearance for something like 35 bucks.
A panhard bar will greatly improve your Mustang's handling, whether it is your daily driver or a weekend, car-show-only kind of ride. It is the perfect solution to solving the common problems found in the 1999-2004 Mustang's four link suspension. Ford decided against putting a panhard bar on this model from the factory, most likely to save money. Now, you can find a panhard bar on all '05 model Mustangs. 1  Provides lateral stability to the rear axle. 2  Increases handling predictability and cornering. 3  Lowers the Mustang's rear roll center, which prevents the inside of rear tires from lifting off the ground
theory of operation: A panhard bar prevents the rear axle from moving side-to-side, which makes the handling more predictable, and it also allows for tuning of the rear roll center. A panhard rod has the advantages of lighter weight and less complexity. A panhard should be as long as possible to minimize lateral displacement as the bar swings through its arc. The bar should also be level for the same reason.
I've been looking at Panhard bars for a while and I've noticed that some are anchored to the chassis on the passenger side and the axle on the driver's side while others are the opposite. The Burban's bar is anchored to the axle on the driver's side. This is a Kenny Brown set up on an '04 Mustang: 
Without a lateral (side-to-side) brace like the Panhard bar, these other arms would flex as you put side pressure on them (e.g. when cornering), and your rear end would shift from left to right under the car. Panhard bar...what does it do, what will it improve? I am headding down to summit tomorrow and was told by a buddy that they have a Moroso Panhard bar for 3rd gens on clearance for something like 35 bucks.
The Panhard bar is a lateral suspension link between the rear axle and the chassis, and is the best method to control the side to side location of the axle relative to the chassis. MM says:The MM Panhard Bar eliminates the Mustang’s unstable and unpredictable behavior while cornering near its limit. This feeling is caused by the rear of the car steering itself without any input from the driver. Rear end steering is caused by the sideways movement of the rear axle.