Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, commonly called “Lou Gehrig's disease” in the US) is the most common motor neuron disease in adults. Motor neuron diseases are neurodegenerative diseases that cause selective loss of the nerve cells that directly connect the brain to muscles.
Neurodegenerative disease is an umbrella term for a range of conditions which primarily affect the neurons in the human brain. Neurons are the building blocks of the nervous system which includes the brain and spinal cord.
More than 600 disorders afflict the nervous system. Neurodegenerative diseases are defined as hereditary and sporadic conditions which are characterized by progressive nervous system dysfunction. These disorders are often associated with atrophy of the affected central or peripheral structures of
The major neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are devastating and fatal. Currently there is no means to arrest or reverse the progression of these diseases.
Summary. Degenerative nerve diseases affect many of your body's activities, such as balance, movement, talking, breathing, and heart function. Many of these diseases are genetic. Sometimes the cause is a medical condition such as alcoholism, a tumor, or a stroke. Other causes may include toxins, chemicals, and viruses. Sometimes the cause is not known. Degenerative nerve diseases include. 1  Alzheimer's disease.
Brain Diseases: Neurodegenerative Conditions continued... Parkinson's disease: Nerves in a central area of the brain degenerate slowly, causing problems with movement and coordination. Early signs are a tremor of the hands, stiffness of the limbs and trunk, slowness of movement, and unstable posture.
Degenerative diseases of the nervous system impose substantial medical and public health burdens on populations throughout the world. Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are three of the major neurodegenerative diseases.