Biceps is a muscle that has two heads. It doens't really refer to a single muscle, because there are two biceps muscles. One is the biceps brachii which is one of the flexors … of the elbow and the other is the biceps femoris, which extends the hip and flexes the knee. 1  Achieving Bicep Growth Through Diet and Workouts Bicep growth is a primary workout goal for many who aspire to an Olympian physique. The antagonist of the muscle, biceps brachii is triceps brachii. Most muscles work in pairs, so MOST of the time, the antagonist is the one that is doing OPPOSITE of what IT i … s doing. Like when the biceps contracts, the triceps relaxes, when the triceps contract, the biceps relaxes.
(plural biceps or bicepses). ( 1 anatomy) Any muscle having two heads. 2  Specifically, the biceps brachii, the flexor of the elbow. ( 3 informal) The upper arm, especially the collective muscles of the upper arm. See also: biceps. Bíceps. (noun plural biceps or). ( 1 bicepses) Anatomy any muscle having two. 2  Heads, specifically the biceps, brachii the flexor of the. ( 3 elbow) Informal the upper, arm especially the collective muscles of the upper.  arm
The biceps brachii is a bi-articular muscle, which means that it helps control the motion of two different joints, the shoulder and the elbow. The function of the biceps at the elbow is essential to the function of the forearm in lifting. The biceps brachii, sometimes known simply as the biceps, is a skeletal muscle that is involved in the movement of the elbow and shoulder. It is a double-headed muscle, meaning that it has two points of origin or heads in the shoulder area
In human anatomy, the biceps brachii (/ˈbaɪsɛps ˈbraeki.ˈbræki/), aɪ commonly known as the, biceps is a-two headed muscle that lies on the upper arm between the shoulder and the. Elbow both heads arise on the scapula and join to form a single muscle belly which is attached to the upper. forearm In training the biceps brachii, it is important to distinguish between the long head and the short head of the biceps. The long head is the outer portion of the muscle. The short head is the inn
Confidence votes 5.8K. Biceps literally tanslates from latin to mean 2 heads and brachi to mean arm. The term as a whole refers to the two headed muscle on the arm that is responsible for suppination of the forearm and to a lesser extent flexion of the elbow. The antagonist of the muscle, biceps brachii is triceps brachii. Most muscles work in pairs, so MOST of the time, the antagonist is the one that is doing OPPOSITE of what IT i … s doing. Like when the biceps contracts, the triceps relaxes, when the triceps contract, the biceps relaxes.
the long fusiform muscle of the upper arm on the anterior surface of the humerus, arising in two heads from the scapula. It flexes the arm and the forearm and supinates the hand. Also called biceps, biceps flexor cubiti. Compare brachialis, triceps brachii. biceps brachii. is a large fusiform muscle lying on the cranial surface of the humerus. Its function is to flex the elbow and integrate the actions of the shoulder and elbow. A medial displacement of the tendon of origin has been reported in dogs, causing a weight-bearing lameness.
• BICEPS BRACHII (noun). The noun BICEPS BRACHII has 1 sense: 1. a muscle that flexes and supinates the forearm. Familiarity information: BICEPS BRACHII used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: A muscle that flexes and supinates the forearm. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Synonyms: biceps brachii; biceps humeri; musculus biceps brachii. Hypernyms (biceps brachii is a kind of...): biceps (any skeletal muscle having two origins (but especially the muscle that flexes the forearm)). Holonyms (biceps brachii is a part of...): arm (a human limb; technically the part of the superior limb between the shoulder and the elbow but commonly used to refer to the whole superior limb)
The term biceps brachii is a Latin phrase meaning two-headed [muscle] of the arm, in reference to the fact that the muscle consists of two bundles of muscle, each with its own origin, sharing a common insertion point near the elbow joint. In training the biceps brachii, it is important to distinguish between the long head and the short head of the biceps. The long head is the outer portion of the muscle. The short head is the inn