There are two kinds of hemorrhoids: internal ones, which occur in the lower rectum, and external hemorrhoids, which develop under the skin around the anus. External hemorrhoids are the most uncomfortable, because the overlying skin becomes irritated and erodes. If a blood clot forms inside an external hemorrhoid, the pain can be sudden and severe. You might feel or see a lump around the anus. The clot usually dissolves, leaving excess skin (a skin tag), which may itch or become irritated. Internal hemorrhoids are typically painless, even when they produce bleeding. You might, for example, see bright red blood on the toilet paper or dripping into the toilet bowl. Internal hemorrhoids may also prolapse, or extend beyond the anus, causing several potential problems. Hemorrhoids and what to do about them. A few simple strategies can help ease the pain and trouble associated with these bothersome bulging blood vessels. Many women have a passing encounter with hemorrhoids during pregnancy. But by midlife, hemorrhoids often become an ongoing complaint.
Hemorrhoid symptoms usually depend on the location. Internal hemorrhoids lie inside the rectum. You usually can't see or feel these hemorrhoids, and they usually don't cause discomfort. Sometimes blood may pool in an external hemorrhoid and form a clot (thrombus), resulting in severe pain, swelling and inflammation. When to see a doctor. Bleeding during bowel movements is the most common sign of hemorrhoids.
Not really: External hemorrhoids usually dont cause back pain. Internal ones unless they are causing bowel obstruction do not hurt also. Im sure some preporation h can help. If not see your physician to see a proctologist or general surgeon who can talk to you about your options. 
Signs and symptoms of hemorrhoids may include: 1  Painless bleeding during bowel movements — you might notice small amounts of bright red blood on your toilet tissue or in the toilet bowl. 2  Itching or irritation in your anal region. 3  Pain or discomfort. Sometimes blood may pool in an external hemorrhoid and form a clot (thrombus), resulting in severe pain, swelling and inflammation. When to see a doctor. Bleeding during bowel movements is the most common sign of hemorrhoids.
Hemorrhoid symptoms (which can include pain, itching, swelling, and bleeding during bowel movements), usually go away within a few days; they are not considered dangerous. However, if you have rectal bleeding or severe pain, you should see a doctor to rule out more serious conditions. 1  Previous. 2  Continue. 
But straining or irritation when passing stool can damage a hemorrhoid's delicate surface and cause it to bleed. Occasionally, straining can push an internal hemorrhoid through the anal opening. This is known as a protruding or prolapsed hemorrhoid and can cause pain and irritation. External hemorrhoids are under the skin around your anus. When irritated, external hemorrhoids can itch or bleed. Sometimes blood may pool in an external hemorrhoid and form a clot (thrombus), resulting in severe pain, swelling and inflammation. When to see a doctor. Bleeding during bowel movements is the most common sign of hemorrhoids.
Sometimes they go away by themselves, but in other cases they can cause lingering pain, itching, and bleeding. There are 2 types of hemorrhoids: those that are just inside the anus or lower rectum (internal) and those that are outside the opening to the anus (external). You can have both at the same time. Internal hemorrhoids usually don't cause pain or discomfort, while external hemorrhoids often do. However, internal hemorrhoids can protrude outside the anus (prolapsed hemorrhoid) and become painful. In some cases, a blot clot (thrombosis) may form in the vein, making the hemorrhoid more painful. 
When an internal hemorrhoid becomes inflamed, it can cause swelling. This in itself does not cause pain because there are no pain fibers attached to the veins above the pectinate line. Passing a hard stool can scrape off the thinned lining of the hemorrhoid causing painless bleeding. Internal hemorrhoids can also thrombose (clot) leading to severe pain. The inflamed hemorrhoid can leak mucus that can cause inflammation of the skin surrounding the anus causing burning and itching, known as pruritis ani.
1 You can't feel pain on the inside of your rectum, so you may not feel pain from an internal hemorrhoid. 2  You may get bleeding or you may feel a fullness in the rectum, like you need to have a bowel movement. 3  Prolapsed hemorrhoids are internal hemorrhoids that have stretched down until they bulge outside your anus. See your doctor if you notice bleeding to make sure the cause is hemorrhoids and not colitis, cancer or some other disease. Bleeding from your rectum or anus or bloody stools may be a sign of something more serious such as cancer.
1 Internal hemorrhoids involve the veins inside your rectum. 2  You can't feel pain on the inside of your rectum, so you may not feel pain from an internal hemorrhoid. 3  You may get bleeding or you may feel a fullness in the rectum, like you need to have a bowel movement. See your doctor if you notice bleeding to make sure the cause is hemorrhoids and not colitis, cancer or some other disease. Bleeding from your rectum or anus or bloody stools may be a sign of something more serious such as cancer.