One kind of food based supplement is made by enzymatically reacting synthetic and natural vitamins with extracts containing vegetable proteins and then making this into a supplement. This is not food cultured, because the nutrients are not grown into a whole food, as in the yeast/algae suspensions.
Overview. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. It helps the body make collagen, an important protein used to make skin, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, and blood vessels.
Most vitamins in vitamin supplements made from food are in foods such as acerola cherries, broccoli, cabbage, carrots, lemons, limes, nutritional yeast, oranges, and rice bran (some companies also use animal products).
An example here would be vitamin C. Most vitamin C currently manufactured is synthetic, coming from China. Vitamin C is a weak acid. Many supplements use salt forms (sodium ascorbate, calcium ascorbate, magnesium ascorbate) to decrease acidity. The most popular form of synthetic vitamin C is ascorbic acid.
1 7 Vitamin tablets are made in a tableting machine. 2  After the vitamin blend has been mixed in the mixer, workers dump it into a hopper above the machine. 3  The vitamin powder then flows through the hopper to a filling station beneath, and flows from there to a rotating table.
Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. It helps the body make collagen, an important protein used to make skin, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, and blood vessels.
Confidence votes 1.4K. Most vitamins are made out of parts of several varieties of fish like cod. However, some companies make vegan vitamins, which are made of various plants like soy.
Most vitamins are made out of parts of several varieties of fish like cod. However, some companies make vegan vitamins, which are made of various plants like soy.