When used with dates, ca means circa, which means around or about the date. Example: ca 1877 means around or about 1877. Sometimes just the letter c is used. 
1 If the level of CA-125 is going down, it usually means that the treatment is working. 2  Check to see if ovarian cancer has returned. 3  Check to see if the ovary is the main site of cancer in a woman. The test for cancer antigen 125 (CA-125) is used to: 1  Check to see if treatment for cancer is working. 2  If the level of CA-125 is going down, it usually means that the treatment is working. 3  Check to see if ovarian cancer has returned. 4
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: CA on an address isn't the postal code for California as there is zip codes in the US, it stands for the State of California. Just like AZ is Arizona, PQ is Quebec, BC British Columbia, HI is Hawaii. When it comes to domain names. Canada is .ca (ie name@shaw.ca) Tuvalu is .tv the rights to that have been sold to a company with a percentage of the profits going to the country Western Samoa is .ws it was too bought by a company and a percentage of the profits go to the country.
When used with dates, ca means circa, which means around or about the date. Example: ca 1877 means around or about 1877. Sometimes just the letter c is used. 
1 Check to see if treatment for cancer is working. 2  If the level of CA-125 is going down, it usually means that the treatment is working. 3  Check to see if ovarian cancer has returned. 4  Check to see if the ovary is the main site of cancer in a woman. The test for cancer antigen 125 (CA-125) is used to: 1  Check to see if treatment for cancer is working. 2  If the level of CA-125 is going down, it usually means that the treatment is working. 3  Check to see if ovarian cancer has returned.
Circa (from Latin, meaning around, about), usually abbreviated c. , ca or ca. (also circ. or cca. ), means approximately in several European languages including English, usually in reference to a date. Circa is widely used in genealogy and historical writing when the dates of events are not accurately known. When used in date ranges, circa is applied before each approximate date, while dates without circa immediately preceding them are generally assumed to be known with certainty. For example, 1  1732–1799: both years are known precisely. 2  c. 1732 – 1799: only the end year is known accurately; the start year is approximate.
The users who voted to close gave this specific reason: If this question can be reworded to fit the rules in the help center, please edit the question.  1 Questions that can be answered using commonly-available references are off-topic. 2  A list of these references can be found here: List of general references  – RegDwigнt. 
what does ca. mean. I'm trying to figure out the metric plans for ocean explorer boat and see some dimensions marked with maesurements like ca. 655 or ca. 305. I'm not used to metric but know the numbers are millimeters but don't know what the ca. stands for. I assume it probably means that the measurement might be different depending on how your particular boat was made but am not sure.