The major function of the immune system is to protect the host from environmental agents such as microbes or chemicals, thereby preserving the integrity of the body. 
Confidence votes 50.7K. The function of the immune system is to protect your body from infection by pathogens and foreign invaders, or what the body perceives as invading germs. go to   http://www.bprc.nl/BPRCE/L4/Iwhatdo.html   for functions   the function of the immune system is to defend you by destroying invaders (viruses and infections). one defence is to attack the invaders directly with white blood cells which contain a great amount of lysosomes.
The immune system is composed of specialized cells, various proteins, tissue and organs. The immune system works to defend us against hordes of microorganisms and germs that we are exposed to every day. The circulation of the leukocytes in the body takes place between the lymph nodes and the various organs through the blood vessels and lymphatic vessels. Hence, the functioning of the immune system occurs in a coordinated manner, thereby, monitoring the body against disease causing germs and microorganisms.
The body’s defense against various microorganisms that cause disease and illness is the immune system. The immune system attacks these disease causing organisms through a sequence of steps referred to as the immune response. The immune system is composed of a number of cells, tissues and organs that work in association and attacks the disease causing microorganisms and protect the human body. The cells of the immune system are the leukocytes or the white blood cells. The circulation of the leukocytes in the body takes place between the lymph nodes and the various organs through the blood vessels and lymphatic vessels. Hence, the functioning of the immune system occurs in a coordinated manner, thereby, monitoring the body against disease causing germs and microorganisms.
The immune system can distinguish between normal, healthy cells and unhealthy cells by recognizing a variety of danger cues called danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Cells may be unhealthy because of infection or because of cellular damage caused by non-infectious agents like sunburn or cancer. 
Share to: The function of the immune system is to protect your body from infection by pathogens and foreign invaders, or what the body perceives as invading germs. When look at the function of cilia in the immune system, you mainly refer to the cilia present in the respiratory system. Cilia, along with mucus, are part of the innate immun … ity your body has. Mucus in respiratory tubes traps most microbes and dust that get past the nasal filter (nasal hair).
The main function of the immune system is defense against microbial infection. The other major functions of the immune system depend on a number of major actions that defend us against threats to our health. These actions help our immune system sort out a system of complicated reactions that our body uses every day to defend us from infection and disease.
When look at the function of cilia in the immune system, you mainly refer to the cilia present in the respiratory system. Cilia, along with mucus, are part of the innate immun … ity your body has. Mucus in respiratory tubes traps most microbes and dust that get past the nasal filter (nasal hair). go to   http://www.bprc.nl/BPRCE/L4/Iwhatdo.html   for functions   the function of the immune system is to defend you by destroying invaders (viruses and infections). one defence is to attack the invaders directly with white blood cells which contain a great amount of lysosomes.
The immune system is a system of many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease. To function properly, an immune system must detect a wide variety of agents, known as pathogens, from viruses to parasitic worms, and distinguish them from the organism's own healthy tissue. Inflammation is one of the first responses of the immune system to infection. The symptoms of inflammation are redness, swelling, heat, and pain, which are caused by increased blood flow into tissue. Inflammation is produced by eicosanoids and cytokines, which are released by injured or infected cells.