Types of IBD: Crohn's Disease. Crohn's disease is a form of IBD that can occur anywhere along the digestive tract -- from the mouth to the anus. It affects the deeper layers of the digestive lining and can occur as skip lesions between healthy areas. Crohn's often involves the small intestine, the colon, or both. 
For more information about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov. Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is a broad term that describes conditions with chronic or recurring immune response and inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. The two most common inflammatory bowel diseases are ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease
Colitis is inflammation of the inner lining of the colon and can be associated with diarrhea, abdominal pain, bloating, and blood in the stool. This inflammation may be due to a variety of reasons, including the following: 1  infection, 2  loss of blood supply to the colon, 3  inflammatory bowel disease, and. 4  invasion of the colon wall with lymphocytic white blood cells or collagen. 
Figure 1: Click to Enlarge. Ulcerative colitis, one of the inflammatory bowel diseases, is characterized by recurring episodes of inflammation of the mucosal layer of the large bowel not related to an intestinal infection or the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of inflammatory conditions of the colon and small intestine. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are the principal types of inflammatory bowel disease. 
Essential update: Study finds increased risk for inflammatory bowel disease in patients with asthma or COPD. In a population-based retrospective cohort study of 136,178 individuals with asthma and 143,904 individuals with COPD, Brassard and colleagues found a significantly increased incidence of IBD. There is a genetic predisposition for IBD (see Etiology), and patients with this condition are more prone to the development of malignancy (see Prognosis). Severe colitis noted during colonoscopy in a patient with inflammatory bowel disease.
1 There are numerous causes of colitis including infection, inflammatory bowel disease, ischemic, and microscopic colitis. 2  Blood in the stool is never normal and should not be ignored. 3  Depending upon the history and physical examination, further testing may be required to find the cause of colitis. 1 Colitis is inflammation of the inner lining of the colon. 2  It may cause abdominal pain and diarrhea with or without blood. 3  Fever may be present. 4 
Colitis facts. 1  Colitis is inflammation of the inner lining of the colon. 2  It may cause abdominal pain and diarrhea with or without blood. 3  Fever may be present. 1 Colitis is inflammation of the inner lining of the colon. 2  It may cause abdominal pain and diarrhea with or without blood. 3  Fever may be present. 4  There are numerous causes of colitis including infection, inflammatory bowel disease, ischemic, and microscopic colitis.
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Overview. Patient Comments Read 17 Comments Share Your Story. The term inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) covers a group of disorders in which the intestines become inflamed (red and swollen), probably as a result of an immune reaction of the body against its own intestinal tissue. 
What is inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)? Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is the name of a group of disorders that cause the intestines to become inflamed (red and swollen). 