Symptoms of pertussis usually develop within 5 to 10 days after being exposed, but sometimes not for as long as 3 weeks. Pertussis has an insidious onset with catarrhal symptoms that are indistinguishable from those of minor respiratory tract infections. The cough, which is initially intermittent, becomes paroxysmal.
Influenza – also known as the flu. Is an acute, highly contagious viral respiratory infection, spread by respiratory droplets, that occurs most commonly during the colder months. Some strains of influenza can be prevented by annual immunization. Pertussis – also known as whooping cough. A contagious bacterial infection of the upper respiratory tract that is characterized by a paroxysmal cough. Can be prevented through immunization. 
Practice Essentials. Pertussis (whooping cough) is a respiratory tract infection characterized by a paroxysmal cough. The most common causative organism is Bordetella pertussis (see the image below), though Bordetella parapertussis has also been associated with this condition in humans. Background. Pertussis, commonly known as whooping cough, is a respiratory tract infection characterized by a paroxysmal cough. It was first identified in the 16th century. In 1906, Bordet isolated the most common causative organism, Bordetella pertussis.
The coughing often occurs in paroxysms during Pertussis, also known as whooping cough, is an acute respiratory tract infection that has increased in incidence in recent years. The initial catarrhal stage presents with nonspecific symptoms of malaise, rhinorrhea, sneezing, lacrima-tion, and mild cough. Clinical Presentation The incubation period of pertussis is seven to 10 days, longer than the typical one-to three-day period for most viral upper respi-ratory tract infections. Patients then develop a presentation that can vary from asymp-tomatic to a mild respiratory tract infection to a persistent, severe cough.
Caused by the spread of upper respiratory viral or sometimes bacterial infections to the bronchi, it is often observed with or after childhood infections, such as measles, whooping cough, diphtheria, and typhoid fever. See also chronic bronchitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, respiratory syncytial virus. Signs of acute bronchitis include fever and an irritating cough. Bronchitis may be either an acute or chronic disorder and frequently involves the trachea as well as the bronchi (tracheobronchitis). The acute stage of the disease often is an extension of an upper respiratory infection which is usually viral in origin.
Caused by Bordetella pertussis, which produces a very potent exotoxin. The initial stage, or the catarrhal stage, presents like a cold. The second, or paroxysmal stage, is characterized by mucus accumulations in the trachea and bronchi, which cause deep coughing. The third, or convalescence stage, can last for months. Laboratory diagnosis is based on isolation of bacteria on Bordet-Gengou medium and serological tests. 
Pneumonia is a respiratory condition in which there is infection of the lung. Upper respiratory tract infections are the illnesses caused by an acute infection which involves … the upper respiratory tract: nose, sinuses, pharynx or larynx. An example would be the common cold. + 6 others found this useful. An upper respiratory infection can be caused by bacteria, viruses, or fungi. The most common is probably the common cold, which is a viral infection, followed by bacteri … al, then fungal. + 1 other found this useful. Heather Mereschuk.
Pneumonia is a respiratory condition in which there is infection of the lung. Upper respiratory tract infections are the illnesses caused by an acute infection which involves … the upper respiratory tract: nose, sinuses, pharynx or larynx. If you feel that you have an upper respiratory infection you should remember to drink plenty of fluids … and eat chicken noodle soup. An upper respitory infection is a viral infection that has noticable signs of runny nose, coughing, and fever.