Costs of membership on Match.com. 1  The cost of a 1 month membership at Match.com is $ 29.95. 2  The cost of a 3 month membership on Match.com is $ 16.99 per moth. 3  The cost of a 6 month membership on Match.com equals just $ 14.99. However, if you simply join for 6 months and use this 20% off match promo coupon the price gets stupid low and you can even opt for the 6 month match guarantee. Details on that are here and the match.com reviews are here. The fact is, Match.com is one of the lowest priced dating sites online.
Basic Plan. A typical membership for Match.com is going to run you anywhere from $16-20 a month, depending on the length of membership you get. If you choose to only try one month of membership, it’s going to cost you more—around $35. Like most online dating sites, you save more when you commit to more. Bundle Plan. Match.com offers a few membership perks for a few dollars more a month ($3 max). If you go with a Bundle plan, you are able to get email read notifications. For those of you who just need to know if he/she has read your latest communication, this may be an added incentive for you to get the Bundle plan.
They offer 1, 3, and 6 month membership plans. The longer the membership, the bigger the savings on the per month cost. Match.com's Best Value plans offer you additional features to make your profile standout, such as a highlighted profile, first impressions, and email read notification. 
1 The cost of a 3 month membership on Match.com is $ 16.99 per moth. 2  The cost of a 6 month membership on Match.com equals just $ 14.99. However, if you simply join for 6 months and use this 20% off match promo coupon the price gets stupid low and you can even opt for the 6 month match guarantee. Details on that are here and the match.com reviews are here. The fact is, Match.com is one of the lowest priced dating sites online.
Comments on Match.com Cost. First off, there is a one-month plan at Match.com but I had to look for it (when I was using Match.com it was more visible in the options). When I most recently looked at the pricing, the one-month plan was at the bottom and was only a text link. For example, if you subscribe to Match.com for 3 months using the 20% promotion, you’re only spending $5 per week ($49.97 divided by 12 weeks). It is my opinion that finding dates with other activities for less than this cost would be a tall order.
Cost of Match.com. Match.com allows users to create a free online dating profile and search other users' profiles free of charge. However, only paying members can email other users—which is essential to making a connection. The Match.com cost structure allows users to pay per month or for several months at a time. Options include: 1  Paying monthly : $34.99 per month. 2  Paying for three months at a time : $59.85 (which equals $19.99 per month). 3  Paying for six months at a time : $101.94 (which equals $16.99 per month)
1 The cost of a 1 month membership at Match.com is $ 29.95. 2  The cost of a 3 month membership on Match.com is $ 16.99 per moth. 3  The cost of a 6 month membership on Match.com equals just $ 14.99. However, if you simply join for 6 months and use this 20% off match promo coupon the price gets stupid low and you can even opt for the 6 month match guarantee. Details on that are here and the match.com reviews are here. The fact is, Match.com is one of the lowest priced dating sites online.
If you want to be able to message someone or read your messages, you have to pay for a subscription. They charge $6.78 a month for the 12 month plan, $8.50 a month for a 6 month plan and $12.50 a month for a 3 month plan. Match.com has raising their rates as well. There are no low cost or Free sites online anymore.