The nucleoid is the region in the prokaryotic cell that contains the main DNA material. As a side note, some DNA will be in other sections of the cell, but the primary material will be in the nucleoid. The nucleoid has an irregular shape compared to the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, which is circular. DNA in the nucleoid is circular and may have multiple copies at any given time. Additionally, DNA in the nucleoid may be supercoiled, meaning it has twists in the circular shape that makes it more compact. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid.
1. The genome is the sum of an organism’s genetic material. 2. Bacteria contan a single chromosome of double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). 3. The region of the bacterial cytoplasm where the chromosome is located and visible when viewed with an electron microscope called the nucleoid. 4. Tha bacterial chromosome is typically a physical and genetic circle, becomes supercoiled,and is not surrounded by a nuclear membrane. 5
The function of a nucleoid is it contains genetic material and the DNA determines what proteins and enzymes an organism can synthesise. This will then enable a chemical reacti … on to take place. 3 people found this useful. The nucleoid is a region of cytoplasm where the chromosomal DNA is located. It is not a membrane bound nucleus, but simply an area of the cytoplasm where the strands of DNA ar … e found. Most bacteria have a single, circular chromosome that is responsible for replication, although a few species do have two or more.
The function of a nucleoid is it contains genetic material and the DNA determines what proteins and enzymes an organism can synthesise. The nucleoid is an irregularly-shaped region within the cell of prokaryotes which has nuclear material without a nuclear membrane and where the genetic material is localized.
The nucleoid region is the irregularly-shaped section of a prokaryotic cell where DNA is housed. It lacks the membrane that is found around the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. In addition to DNA, the nucleoid may also contain RNA, proteins, and enzymes that can be used for cellular processes. DNA in the nucleoid is circular and may have multiple copies at any given time. Additionally, DNA in the nucleoid may be supercoiled, meaning it has twists in the circular shape that makes it more compact. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid.
Contrasted to eukaryotes with a nucleus, prokaryotes have a nucleoid where the genetic material can be found. The nucleoid is different from the nucleus of the eukaryotes in a way that the genetic material is not enclosed in a membrane to separate it from the cytoplasm. The nucleoid is a region of cytoplasm where the chromosomal DNA is located. It is not a membrane bound nucleus, but simply an area of the cytoplasm where the strands of DNA are found.
Prokaryote cell (right) showing the nucleoid in comparison to a eukaryotic cell (left) showing the nucleus. The nucleoid (meaning nucleus-like) is an irregularly-shaped region within the cell of a prokaryote that contains all or most of the genetic material, called genophore. The nucleoid can be clearly visualized on an electron micrograph at high magnification, where, although its appearance may differ, it is clearly visible against the cytosol. Sometimes even strands of what is thought to be DNA are visible.
Answers. Best Answer: The nucleoid region is where the bacterial chromosome is located in the bacterial cell. So genes are expressed here. Unlike animal and plant cells, the ribosomes are not separated from the nucleoid region so they usually bind to the mRNA as it is being made. 
The nucleoid is the region of a prokaryotic cell that houses the primary DNA. This lesson briefly discusses the nucleoid and its characteristics, and how it compares to the nucleus of the eukaryotic cell. DNA in the nucleoid is circular and may have multiple copies at any given time. Additionally, DNA in the nucleoid may be supercoiled, meaning it has twists in the circular shape that makes it more compact. As the cells grow, the DNA in the nucleoid may extend into the cytosol, or cellular fluid.
The nucleoid is a region of cytoplasm where the chromosomal DNA is located. It is not a membrane bound nucleus, but simply an area of the cytoplasm where the strands of DNA are found. Most bacteria have a single, circular chromosome that is responsible for replication, although a few species do have two or more. The nucleoid is an irregularly-shaped region within the cell of prokaryotes which has nuclear material without a nuclear membrane and where the genetic material is localized.