The parties agreed to submit the matter to binding arbitration. The arbitrator found in Corona's favor and awarded him $10,000. Corona made motions in Superior Court to confirm the arbitration award and for an award of $28,257.50 in attorney fees and $6,302.32 in costs, including the arbitrator's fees. Also, the provisions of 1717 allow for the recovery of attorney fees by either side (whoever prevails) even when the language indicates that the attorney fees are unilateral. A request for attorney fees needs to be included in the pleadings and asked for at trial or in the
1 A fee arbitration decision may be appealed by you or the attorney to the superior court within the time period and under the limited grounds set out in Alaska Statutes 09.43.120-180. 2  Procedures for appeal are set out in the Rules of Appellate Procedure 601-612. The attorney is given a 10-day grace period to work out the fee dispute directly with you—which they may or may not do. Assignment of Arbitration to Hearing Panel. A single member of the fee arbitration committee will hear the matter if the amount in dispute is $5,000 or less. Otherwise, a panel of three members, one of whom is not an attorney, is selected from a local standing committee in the community where the legal services were provided
The Fourth District Court of Appeals has visited the issue and provided additional guidance with regard to the recovery of legal fees in an arbitration. In the very recent decision of Corona v. Amherst Partners, No. D040084 (Cal. 4th App. Also, the provisions of 1717 allow for the recovery of attorney fees by either side (whoever prevails) even when the language indicates that the attorney fees are unilateral. A request for attorney fees needs to be included in the pleadings and asked for at trial or in the
1 The fee is the amount of the filing fee less the $200 assessed to the claimant. 2  Since the claimant's fee is capped at $200, the Member Firm shall pay the fees in excess of this amount. Filing Fees. 1  Initial Filing Fee – The fee a claimant pays to file a claim. 2  Part of the fee is non-refundable and part is potentially refundable. 3  For more detail, go to Customer Code Rule 12900; Industry Code Rule 13900.
Fee Arbitration. Fee arbitration is a process you can use to resolve a dispute over fees with your attorney. An impartial panel hears the dispute and makes a final and binding decision based on the facts and evidence presented by you and the attorney. The attorney is given a 10-day grace period to work out the fee dispute directly with you—which they may or may not do. Assignment of Arbitration to Hearing Panel. A single member of the fee arbitration committee will hear the matter if the amount in dispute is $5,000 or less. Otherwise, a panel of three members, one of whom is not an attorney, is selected from a local standing committee in the community where the legal services were provided
Most fee arbitration cases are heard before panels of three members, composed of either two lawyers and one public member or three lawyers. However, if the total amount of the fee charged is less than $3,000, the hearing may be held before a single lawyer member of the fee committee. If your lawyer believes that any other lawyer or member of a law firm is responsible for, or entitled to, any portion of the fee, it is your lawyer's responsibility to see to it that that lawyer or firm is made a party to the arbitration proceeding.
· In addition to the above fees, if you and your attorney settle your case for an amount above $2 million, or if you win at trial and your recovery is above $2 million, the fee is 20 percent of the recovery above $2 million. · If you and your attorney settle your case before the filing of an answer or demand for appointment of arbitrators or, if no answer is filed or no demand for appointment of arbitrators is made, the expiration of the time period provided for such action, the fee is 33 1/3 percent of any recovery up to $1 million.
Mandatory Fee Arbitration. In some states, you and your lawyer are required to participate in arbitration before either one of you can file a lawsuit over your attorney’s fees. Mandatory fee arbitration is the norm in: 1  Alaska. 2  California. 3  Maine. 4  Minnesota. 
Most fee arbitrations are conducted through local bar association programs. To request fee arbitration, contact the local county bar program where the majority of legal services were provided, typically the county where the lawyer's office is located. The State Bar provides fee arbitration only when there is no local bar program. Mandatory Fee Arbitration: This podcast provides an overview of the fee arbitration process. For more information or assistance, call the State Bar Office of Mandatory Fee Arbitration 415-538-2020.