donkey. noun ass, mule, jackass, neddy strange creatures including a wild donkey. donkey's years (Informal) a long time, years, ages, for ever (informal), yonks (informal), an age or eternity I made them last for donkey's years. donkey work N (Brit) → trabajo m pesado. [ˈdɒŋki] n → ane âne m donkey jacket (N) → british caban m donkey work-donkey work (N) british the donkey → work le gros du, travail le plus (dur du). travail
Dream Dictionary. To dream of a donkey braying in your face, denotes that you are about to be publicly insulted by a lewd and unscrupulous person. To hear the distant braying filling space with melancholy, you will receive wealth and release from unpleasant bonds by the death of some person close to you.
Learn More About DONKEY. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for donkey. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of donkey. Nglish: Translation of donkey for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of donkey for Arabic speakers. Full Definition of DONKEY. 1. : the domestic ass (Equus asinus). 2. : a stupid or obstinate person. See donkey defined for English-language learners. See donkey defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
verb-transitive. 1  one of many sex moves that involve physical abuse of women. 2  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. 3  See more words with the same meaning: to hit, punch, slap. 
donkey. n. 1. (Animals) Also called: ass a long-eared domesticated member of the horse family (Equidae), descended from the African wild ass (Equus asinus). 2. a stupid or stubborn person. 3. (Soccer) Brit a footballer known for his or her lack of skill: the players are a bunch of overpriced and overrated donkeys. donkey work N (Brit) → trabajo m pesado. [ˈdɒŋki] n → ane âne m donkey jacket (N) → british caban m donkey work-donkey work (N) british the donkey → work le gros du, travail le plus (dur du). travail
Definition of DONKEY for Kids. : an animal related to but smaller than the horse that has short hair in mane and tail and very large ears. Full Definition of DONKEY. 1. : the domestic ass (Equus asinus). 2. : a stupid or obstinate person. See donkey defined for English-language learners. See donkey defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
There is also a story of King Midas who got the ears of donkey because of a wrong judgment during the musical contest. He preferred Pan instead of Apollo which means that he chose his sensuality instead of the taste of harmony. The Christian symbolism is quite ambivalent. Donkey has a significant role in the Bible. The Satanic donkey is opposed to a female donkey of knowledge, symbol of humility, poverty, courage and peace. This is quite a paradox because the other explanations tell us that, in fact, at that time to ride on a donkey was seen as a sign of richness befitting the House of David.
The definition of a donkey is a hoofed mammal similar to a horse that has long ears and that brays, or is a foolish, stupid person, or is the symbol of the Democratic party. 1  Eeyore in Winnie the Pooh is an example of a cartoon donkey. 1 Eeyore in Winnie the Pooh is an example of a cartoon donkey. 2  A person who makes a very stupid decision like an obvious lie or declining to do homework he knows the teacher will check is an example of a donkey. 3  An animal symbol used by the Democratic political party
Donkey. Dreaming about this interesting and amusing animal may have several different and opposing interpretations. Therefore, it is very important that you pay attention to the details and the emotional tone of the dream. 
donkey (ˈdɒŋkɪ). 1  Also called : : ass a long-eared domesticated member of the horse family (Equidae), descended from the African wild ass (Equus asinus). noun