SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. The primary muscle worked by the lat pulldown is the latissimus dorsi. This muscle is a large fan-shaped muscle that spans from rmiddle of the back, wrapping around the side and covering part of the lower three ribs. Allow at least 24 hours of rest time after using the lat pulldown machine. Anytime you lift weights, your muscles are actually tearing apart and breaking down. During the rest period, they heal and build themselves up stronger than before you did the workout. That is how muscles gain strength, during the rest periods.
Biceps. In addition to the lats, a lat pulldown will work your upper arms because the pulling motion recruits your biceps muscles to contribute to the exercise. Biceps work is increased on close-grip pulldowns as opposed to wide grip versions. Latissimus Dorsi. A lat pulldown targets your latissimus dorsi muscles, which are located on the sides of your rib cage. The lats contract when the bar is pulled down and stretch during the eccentric phase of
The lateral pulldown, or lat pulldown for short, is a compound exercise that works the muscles of the back -- particularly the latissimus dorsi. Build this muscle to reap significant functional and aesthetic benefits for the back. Back Builder. The latissimus dorsi is a broad muscle that covers the back of your torso, below the arms and across the ribs. This muscle plays a role in shoulder and spine mobility. If you throw, twist, shrug or bend, you use your latissimus dorsi.
These large, broad muscles -- which help create the characteristic V-shaped back of a bodybuilder -- are responsible for pulling your arms down and back, which is the action you use during the lat pulldown exercise. Lat pulldowns also work other muscles on your back, shoulders and arms. Lat pulldowns also work the rhomboid muscles on your upper back, which draw your shoulder blades toward your spine, as well as the lower trapezius muscles, which pull your shoulder blades down. The exercise strengthens the rear deltoids on the backs of your shoulders, which help pull the arms backward.
Latissimus Dorsi. The main muscle mover in the lat pulldown is the latissimus dorsi, or lats. They are located on the sides of your middle-to lower-back. You probably recognize the lats on bodybuilders because the muscle looks like wings that extend from underneath the shoulder to the lower back. Arms. The three muscles that make up your biceps -- the biceps brachii, the brachialis and the brachioradialis -- are also used during the lat pulldown. When the bicep group contracts and shortens, your arm flexes. This flexion occurs when you pull down the lat bar and decrease the angle at your elbow.
Primary Muscle Group. Lat pulldowns primarily develop a muscle group in your back called the latissimus dorsi, or lats. Your lats pull your arms toward your torso. For example, rowers and swimmers typically have well-developed lats due to the types of arm movements they regularly perform. Lat pulldowns effectively exercise a wide variety of upper-body muscle groups. If you are new to strength training, or if you have a history of back, shoulder or arm problems, discuss your exercise plans with your doctor before attempting lat pulldowns.
Helper Muscles. The lat pulldown is a compound exercise, meaning it works several joints at once -- and thus, several muscles. While the latissimus dorsi is the primary muscle worked, the biceps and muscles of the forearm act as helpers. Several of the muscles of the rotator cuff also assist as you pull the bar down. Back Builder. The latissimus dorsi is a broad muscle that covers the back of your torso, below the arms and across the ribs. This muscle plays a role in shoulder and spine mobility. If you throw, twist, shrug or bend, you use your latissimus dorsi.