Biofiltration is a relatively new pollution control technology. It is an attractive technique for the elimination of malodorous gas emissions and of low concentrations of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The most common style biofilter is just a big box. Some can be as big as a basketball court or as small as one cubic yard.
Thus, there must be a balance between a high SSA and an operationally reliable biofilter media. Nitrifying bacteria cells grow on all surfaces of the biological filter media and, in fact, on all wet surfaces of the system, such as the insides of pipes, tank walls, etc. 1 Water quality parameters should be monitored regularly during the start-up of a biofilter. 2  Ammonia, nitrite, pH, temperature and alkalinity are the primary water quality parameters to test. 3  Reliable, accurate and repeatable methods for measuring ammonia and nitrite concentrations in the system should be established.
Biofilter media moisture control is essential for odor reduction through a biofilter. Inadequate moisture can allow the media to dry out, deactivating the microbes, and creating cracks and channeling of air which results in a reduction of filter efficiency. The biofilter on the south side of the gestation barn is 180 ft long by 21 ft wide and the one on the west side is 60 ft by 21 ft. The media on both is 11 in. (0.28 m) deep. The biofilter on the west side of the farrowing barn is 90 ft long by 21 ft wide.
Background and Introduction. Biological treatment or biofiltration is now the mainstay of wastewater management systems. Patent applications for odor control using biofiltration have been filed since the 1950s for soil filters and large biological trickling filter plants. Biofilters have been designed primarily for odor control at wastewater treatment plants, rendering plants, and composting operations.
The Waterloo Biofilter® is an advanced onsite wastewater treatment system for off-sewer developments including residential single dwelling households and cottages, decentralized commercial and light industrial lands such as golf courses, resorts and restaurants, as well as large clustered or communal systems. 
3. Decide on the amount of water that will flow through the biofilter .. One way to look at water flow is to calculate how long it will take for all of the water in the culture tank will pass through the filtration system. A very slow system might recirculate all of the water in 12 hours. 
The box that makes up this biofilter contains a filter material, which is the breeding ground for the microorganisms. The microorganisms live in a thin layer of moisture, the biofilm, which surrounds the particles that make up the filter media. It is an attractive technique for the elimination of malodorous gas emissions and of low concentrations of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The most common style biofilter is just a big box. Some can be as big as a basketball court or as small as one cubic yard.
Biofiltration is a pollution control technique using living material to capture and biologically degrade pollutants. Common uses include processing waste water, capturing harmful chemicals or silt from surface runoff, and microbiotic oxidation of contaminants in air. Biofiltration is thus usually referred to as a fixed–film process. Generally, the biofilm is formed by a community of different microorganisms (bacteria, fungi, yeast, etc.), macro-organisms (protozoa, worms, insect’s larvae, etc.) and extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) (Flemming and Wingender, 2010).
Definition of BIOFILTER. : a filter bed in which sewage is subjected to the action of microorganisms that assist in decomposing it. ADVERTISEMENT. 2bi- + filter. Origin of BIOFILTER. 2bi- + filter. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged