Best Answer: You can certainly cook ground beef patties in the oven for hamburgers. You might prefer to broil them instead of bake them, but you must keep a close eye on the cooking. If you are baking them on a cookie sheet, I would heat the oven to about 375 degrees and bake them for about 20 minutes. Pull out the pan and cut one open to check if it is cooked enough and no longer pink.
1) Taco meat for tacos/soups/ or anything requiring ground beef!! 2) Sloppy Joes 3) Beef Taquitos HOW do you EASILY cook the ground beef? 1) Purchase at least 5 lb. (or MORE) hamburger 2) Preheat oven to 350 F 3) Break into ping pong ball size LUMPS in a large glass casserole dish. 
preheat the oven to 350 degrees and cook the meat for 30 to 35 minutes. the foil is to keep grease from splattering out and making a lot of smoke. also the lower temperature as well as covering the pan should prevent the meat from burning. You might prefer to broil them instead of bake them, but you must keep a close eye on the cooking. If you are baking them on a cookie sheet, I would heat the oven to about 375 degrees and bake them for about 20 minutes. Pull out the pan and cut one open to check if it is cooked enough and no longer pink.
Place in fridge to set. (30 minutes) Pre heat oven grill and place the patties on a wire rack in a roasting pan about 6 away from the element. Grill for about 5 minutes each side. You will see the amount of fat that drips out, and it is the healthiest way I know of to cook beef. Bake, uncovered, at 400 degrees F for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, in large skillet, brown ground beef; drain. Stir in water, gravy mix and garlic salt; bring to boil. Add mixed vegetables; reduce heat to medium and cook, uncovered, 5 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in 1/2 cup cheese and 1/2 of the cut up onions; spoon into hot potato shell. Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Bake, uncovered, at 350 degrees F for 15 minutes or until heated through
2. Breaking the ground beef up before cooking will save you a lot of time. If you just throw the block of meat in the pan, it will cook in that shape and it will be hard to break apart. But, if you break it up ahead of time, it will cook in the traditional granule shape. Here I have 1 pound of meat, and this is an 8-inch frying pan. I could squeeze another pound in there if I had to. Heat the pan to just above medium, and either melt 1 Tbsp of butter in the pan or add 1 Tbsp of another fat to fry the beef in.
Cover and cook over medium heat for 30 minutes. Add corned beef, and cook an additional 10 minutes *Ground Beef with Roasted Peppers 4 bell peppers 1 onion 1 pound ground beef or turkey 1/2 cup rice small can tomato sauce Cook beef and drain off fat. Saute onion. Bake, uncovered, at 400 degrees F for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, in large skillet, brown ground beef; drain. Stir in water, gravy mix and garlic salt; bring to boil. Add mixed vegetables; reduce heat to medium and cook, uncovered, 5 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in 1/2 cup cheese and 1/2 of the cut up onions; spoon into hot potato shell. Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Bake, uncovered, at 350 degrees F for 15 minutes or until heated through
Method 2 of 2: Browning Meat in the Microwave. 1. Arrange your ground beef in a microwave container, so it is laying out as flat as possible. Add 1 cup (250 ml) of water to the meat and place in the microwave. 1 Add finely diced onions to the pan before adding the beef and cook as normal. 2  You can also add seasoned salt to your meat as you cook to add flavor. 3  To add extra flavor to your meat as you brown, replace the 1/4 cup (59 ml) of water with beef stock.
Bake in a 350 F oven for 45 minutes to an hour or until the center registers 160 F on an instant-read thermometer. 1  Resist the urge to cook any form of ground beef to anything less than well-done as E coli is a real risk for undercooked ground beef. Seal the foil packets tightly and bake in a 350-degree Fahrenheit oven for 45 minutes or until the beef registers 160 degrees on an instant-read thermometer when inserted horizontally into the patty. Open the foil carefully as the steam will have built up during cooking