For example, Switzerland is famous for its notorious bank that stocks all the black money in the world! If you look at this country from a non-tourist perspective, you can find many interesting Swiss things here. That is why, Boldsky has put together a list of seven things that Switzerland is famous for. Things That Switzerland Is Famous For: Swiss Chocolate. Swiss chocolate is a term in itself. When you have a piece of chocolate and say, 'it seems Swiss', it basically means that it really tastes, good.
Who is a famous person from Switzerland? Some famous people who are from Switzerland include Kat Graham,  Marthe Keller, Carlos Leal, and Christianne Hirt. Switzerland is famous for: - Being over 700 years old. - Having 4 national languages (French, Italian, Swiss German and Romansh). - Being a federation of 26 independent cantons, all with their own constitution and government.
This is a list of people associated with the modern Switzerland and the Old Swiss Confederacy. Regardless of ethnicity or emigration, the list includes famous natives of Switzerland and its predecessor states as well as people who were born elsewhere but spent most of their active life in Switzerland. For more information see the articles Swiss people and Demographics of Switzerland. 
It is not only the natural beauty for what Switzerland is known. There are numerous things related to Switzerland that attract people like Swiss watches, music festivals, cheese and chocolates to name some. Lakes-. Switzerland is home to a large number of small and large lakes. There is a scenic beauty in Switzerland with all the lakes, mountain ranges and meadows. One can easily fall in love with the beauty of Lake Geneva, Lake Zurich and Lake Neuchatel.
Alps-. Swiss Alps, also known as Central Alps, is the region of Alpine mountain ranges that lie in Switzerland. Around 65% of Switzerland is covered by Alps, one of the most beautiful mountain ranges. No doubt, Switzerland is the place where one can find the highest peaks and glaciers. Lakes-. Switzerland is home to a large number of small and large lakes. There is a scenic beauty in Switzerland with all the lakes, mountain ranges and meadows. One can easily fall in love with the beauty of Lake Geneva, Lake Zurich and Lake Neuchatel.
Fondue and Cheese. Cheese and fondue go hand in hand, but Swiss cuisine has several fondue variations. Swiss cheese, made up of raw milk, is perhaps the most famous cheese to come out of the country. Other famous cheeses are still produced by hand and include Gruyere, Gruyère, Emmentaler tete Tête, De moine Sbrinz. and vacherin
Switzerland is a federation of even smaller states - 26 cantons. Switzerland is known for its neutrality. A country is neutral when it does not take sides among the countries who are at war. Switzerland has been neutral for more than 190 years. Many international organizations are in Switzerland. The United Nations has a main office (but not its headquarters) in Geneva. 
Switzerland is well-known for the cuisine it produces, in particular cheese and chocolate. The country's food is diverse and seasonal, carrying influences from Italy, France and Germany. Traditional Swiss food is rich, in both flavor and calories, and rarely uses herbs and spices. Cheese and fondue go hand in hand, but Swiss cuisine has several fondue variations. Swiss cheese, made up of raw milk, is perhaps the most famous cheese to come out of the country. Other famous cheeses are still produced by hand and include Gruyere, Gruyère, Emmentaler tete Tête, De moine Sbrinz. and vacherin
The food of the Swiss is unusual in that it has so many regional influences from the cuisine of its neighbors. This includes the French, German and Italians. Historically, Switzerland was a farming country, and the most popular crops and foods include cheese and potatoes as well as chocolate. Switzerland Dishes. Swiss Dishes. 1  Zuercher Zürcher-Eintopf zurich style hot. 2  Pot vegetables and meat are served all in the same. 3  Pot-Fondue this is a Famous swiss food made of melted. 4  Cheese bread pieces or potato pieces are dipped in. 5  Cheese-Rosti this is a common swiss dish made from grated potatoes that are raw or.  cooked