1 At the fetish club, Bill was certain he could get a blumpkin. 2  Joe got his first blumpkin last night. 3  See more words with the same meaning: fellatio, 'blowjob' . 4  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. 1 See more words with the same meaning: fellatio, 'blowjob' . 2  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. 3  See more words with the same meaning: to defecate, poop, shit.
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 1 See more words with the same meaning: fellatio, 'blowjob' . 2  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. 3  See more words with the same meaning: to defecate, poop, shit.
Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses).
Nearby & related entries: 1  blume distillation. 2  blumenbach, johann friedrich. 3  blumenthal, leonard von. 4  blumentopf. 5  blumi`ne. 6  blunder. 7  blunder out. 8  blunderbore. 9  blunderbush. 10  blunderbuss. 
1 Joe got his first blumpkin last night. 2  See more words with the same meaning: fellatio, 'blowjob' . 3  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. 4  See more words with the same meaning: to defecate, poop, shit. 1 See more words with the same meaning: fellatio, 'blowjob' . 2  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. 3  See more words with the same meaning: to defecate, poop, shit.
noun. 1  Spelling variant of blumpkin, likely due to people mishearing the term. 2  See more words with the same meaning: fellatio, 'blowjob' . 3  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation
1 Spelling variant of blumpkin, likely due to people mishearing the term. 2  At the fetish club, Bill was certain he could get a plumpkin. 3  See more words with the same meaning: fellatio, 'blowjob' . 4  See more words with the same meaning: sex activities, practices, moves. Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation
noun: An act of fellatio performed upon a man specifically whilst he is seated upon a toiled whilst engaged in the act of defecation. 