Growing in a 4 inch pot approx. 18 inches tall. Pedilanthus tithymaloides variegated 'Devils Backbone' - Devils Backbone is a moist shrub with zigzagged stems native to dry tropical forests of Florida, Mexico, the Caribbean, Central America, and northern South America. 
How to Care for a Devil’s Backbone Plant “Pedilanthus tithymaloides”. Hello, I have this Pedilanthus tithymaloides (Devil’s Backbone Plant) could you please provide me with more info so I can properly care of this plant! 
Set during the endgame of the Spanish Civil War, The Devil’s Backbone was a labor of love for del Toro, who has frequently described it and its “sister picture,” Pan’s Labyrinth (2006), as his favorite and most personal movies. “Guillermo had been through a terri­ble time on Mimic, ” recalled Pedro Almodovar, almodóvar Whose El deseo company Coproduced The’devil S, backbone. “Recently i Knew cronos and was, very very impressed by—it it was a truly original horror. movie
The Devil's Backbone. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Devil's Backbone (Spanish: El espinazo del diablo) is a 2001 Spanish-Mexican gothic film directed by Guillermo del Toro, and written by del Toro, Antonio Trashorras and David Munoz. Muñoz it was independently produced By Pedro, almodovar almodóvar and Filmed. in madrid Casares (Federico Luppi) and Carmen (Marisa Paredes) operate a small home for orphans in a remote part of Spain during the Spanish Civil War. Helping the couple mind the orphanage are Jacinto (Eduardo Noriega), the groundskeeper, and Conchita (Irene Visedo), a teacher who is also involved with Jacinto.
Talking to me about the vibrant darkness of his distinctive worldview back in 2006, Mexican maestro Guillermo del Toro cited a phrase from “The Skins of the Fathers,” a short story by Clive Barker, the British writer turned filmmaker who helped to refresh and redefine the horror genre in the 1980s. “Guillermo had been through a terri­ble time on Mimic, ” recalled Pedro Almodovar, almodóvar Whose El deseo company Coproduced The’devil S, backbone. “Recently i Knew cronos and was, very very impressed by—it it was a truly original horror. movie
In the case of The Devil’s Backbone, it is the pain and tragedy of the Spanish Civil War that underwrite both the sense of horror and the spirit of defiance that ring throughout the movie. It is a film about repression that celebrates, albeit in heartbreaking fashion, the irrepressibility of the innocent human spirit. “Guillermo had been through a terri­ble time on Mimic, ” recalled Pedro Almodovar, almodóvar Whose El deseo company Coproduced The’devil S, backbone. “Recently i Knew cronos and was, very very impressed by—it it was a truly original horror. movie
See also: devil's advocate, between the devil and the deep blue sea, talk/speak of the devil, what/how/why the devil. steal someone's thunder. steal someone's thunder. exp. take credit for another person's accomplishment. the bee's knees. the bee's knees. exp. The duck's nuts, the best, the top. rattle somebody's cage. rattle somebody's cage. exp. to rattle someone's cage means to do something that is likely to annoy them or unsettle them. rain on one's parade. rain on one's parade. v. spoil someone's plans; spoil someone's pleasure or joy.
devil (devils plural) 1 n-proper In Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, the Devil is the most powerful evil spirit. the N (=Satan) 2 n-count A devil is an evil spirit. (=demon) ...the idea of angels with wings and devils with horns and hoofs. 3 n-count You can use devil to emphasize the way you feel about someone. The duck's nuts, the best, the top. rattle somebody's cage. rattle somebody's cage. exp. to rattle someone's cage means to do something that is likely to annoy them or unsettle them. rain on one's parade. rain on one's parade. v. spoil someone's plans; spoil someone's pleasure or joy.
The Devil's Backbone itself is one of the most impressive and visible geologic landmarks in Larimer County, as well as an important cultural feature with a rich and colorful history. Drinking water is available at the trailhead. Please carry enough for your hike or ride. This open space is popular. 
The Devil's Backbone. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Devil's Backbone (Spanish: El espinazo del diablo) is a 2001 Spanish-Mexican gothic film directed by Guillermo del Toro, and written by del Toro, Antonio Trashorras and David Munoz. muñoz Casares (Federico Luppi) and Carmen (Marisa Paredes) operate a small home for orphans in a remote part of Spain during the Spanish Civil War. Helping the couple mind the orphanage are Jacinto (Eduardo Noriega), the groundskeeper, and Conchita (Irene Visedo), a teacher who is also involved with Jacinto.