A DFS root can only exist on a server version of Windows (from Windows NT 4.0 and up) and OpenSolaris (in kernel space) or a computer running Samba (in user space .) The Enterprise and Datacenter Editions of Windows Server can host multiple DFS roots on the same server. 1 Standalone DFS namespace allow for a DFS root that exists only on the local computer, and thus does not use Active Directory. 2  A Standalone DFS can only be accessed on the computer on which it is created. 3  It does not offer any fault tolerance and cannot be linked to any other DFS.
To show a DFS root. 1  Open Distributed File System. 2  Click Distributed File System. 3  On the Action menu, click Show Root. 4  In the Root or host server field, type in the UNC name for an existing DFS root, or expand the list of trusting domains and click the DFS root, then click OK. 1 If the host server has a single root, DFS will show the root. 2  If the host server has multiple roots, DFS will display a list of all the roots on the server and allow you to pick the root or roots to display. 3  You can select more than one root by holding down the SHIFT or CTRL keys as you click.
Types of DFS Roots. A DFS root is the highest level of the DFS topology and is the starting point for the hierarchy of shared folders. A DFS root can be defined at the server or at the domain level. A domain may have any number of DFS roots, each server running Windows 2003 can host any number of DFS roots. A DFS link can also point to another DFS Root. This configuration allows you to create large DFS trees that combine other DFS tree. To add a DFS link: 1  In the Distributed File system, click the DFS Root to which you will add a DFS link. 2  On the Action menu, click New DFS Link. 3  Configure the Add to DFS dialog box options like link name, comment; send the user to this folder and client cache this referral for x second
Right-click Distributed File System in the left pane, and click New Dfs Root. The Create New Dfs Root wizard appears, then click Next. Make sure that Create a domain Dfs root is selected, and then click Next. Select the host domain for the Dfs root; in our example, this is reskit.com, and then click Next. Figure 1: Select Host Domain for Dfs Root. Accept the name of the host server for the Dfs root. To access the Dfs root using Windows Explorer. Click Start, click Run, and type \\reskit.com\books in the Open box. Click OK. Click the DFS tab in Windows Explorer to view: The list of servers backing the Dfs root or link. The specific server the Dfs client is connected to.
Distributed file System (DFS) is a set of client and server services that allow an organization using Microsoft Windows servers to organize many distributed SMB file shares into a distributed file system. 1 Standalone DFS namespace allow for a DFS root that exists only on the local computer, and thus does not use Active Directory. 2  A Standalone DFS can only be accessed on the computer on which it is created. 3  It does not offer any fault tolerance and cannot be linked to any other DFS.
Below is an definition of each of them. Dfs root: You can think of this as a share that is visible on the network, and in this share you can have additional files and folders. Dfs link: A link is another share somewhere on the network that goes under the root. When a user opens this link they will be redirected to a shared folder. 
Here is how you can add additional shared folders to your DFS root. That is all. Permissions to create DFS roots. Your network users are by default allowed to publish DFS roots in Active Directory. If you wish to impose restrictions on their ability to do so, you can set the Allow DFS roots to be published group policy. 
The What is DFS root question is directly related to the next question someone might ask How to create a DFS root. DFS root is an object in the Microsoft Active Directory system used for sharing files and folders across network. DFS root is the starting point of the DFS namespace. DFS root is an object which consolidates your network shared folders and makes them available to network users as a single entry point. Before you create DFS root. Before you can create a DFS root, you need to prepare your server to be able to handle this functionality. This is usually done through configuring your server to have the file server role. The following steps demonstrate how this can be done in Windows Server 2003