For example, let's assume it costs Company XYZ $10,000 to purchase 5,000 widgets that it will resell in its retail outlets. Company XYZ's cost per unit is: $10,000 / 5,000 = $2 per unit. Often, calculating the cost per unit isn't so simple, especially in manufacturing situations. Usually, costs per unit involve variable costs (costs that vary with the number of units made) and fixed costs (costs that don't vary with the number of units made). For example, at XYZ Restaurant, which sells only pepperoni pizza, the variable expenses per pizza might be: Flour: $0.50. Yeast: $0.05. 
DEFINITION of 'Production Cost'. A cost incurred by a business when manufacturing a good or producing a service. Production costs combine raw material and labor. To figure out the cost of production per unit, the cost of production is divided by the number of units produced. 
Definition. In cost accounting, unit of product or service for which cost is computed. Cost units are selected to allow for comparison between actual cost and standard cost, or between different actual costs.
Expenditure incurred in producing one unit of a good or service, computed usually as average cost. Show more usage examples... I wanted to determine the unit cost of the item and see what would happen to our company in the future if we spent too much. 9 people found this helpful. If you want to figure out how much you may make off a shipment you will need to know what the unit cost is.
Translations for 'unit cost'. 1  British English: unit cost Unit cost is the amount of money that it costs a company to produce one article. 2  NOUNThey aim to reduce unit costs through extra sales. 
The cost incurred by a company to produce, store and sell one unit of a particular product. Unit costs include all fixed costs (i.e. plant and equipment) and all variable costs (labor, materials, etc.) involved in production. Next Up. Next Up. Unit cost is an important metric to look at when evaluating a unit grower stock, or a stock that chiefly produces items that have a low fixed cost.
OECD Statistics. French Equivalent: Co t unitaire de la main-d oeuvre Definition: Unit labour costs (ULC) measure the average cost of labour per unit of output and are calculated as the ratio of total labour costs to real output. Context: In broad terms, unit labour costs show how much output an economy receives relative to wages, or labour cost per unit of output.
Definition of UNIT COST. : the cost allocated to a selected unit and commonly calculated as the cost over a period of time divided by the number of items produced. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis
Unit cost. The unit cost is the cost incurred by a company to produce, store and sell one unit of a particular product. Unit costs include all fixed costs and all variable costs involved in production. 