Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Cap Installation project. For a basic 25 feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall Cap ranges between $13.26 - $16.36 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
For Ralston, $39 per square foot is the average cost he charges for a wall under 4 feet tall. For walls below 4 feet, he says his prices are often competitive with finished block. A block wall has to be stuccoed or finished with veneer, while a concrete wall does not need an added finish. Retaining Wall Cost. Poured retaining walls with elaborate curves require complex formwork and will drive up cost for a wall. The total cost to have a concrete retaining wall installed will be a combination of material and labor prices. For a basic wall you can expect to pay between $30 and $40 per square foot. If you add a decorative finish, curves, steps, lighting or other upgrades, the cost will rise
Concrete retaining wall prices start around $30 per square foot including materials and installation and can go as high as $45 to $50 per square foot depending on how much prep work is involved in building the forms. Walls higher than four feet typically require a different type of form which will raise the cost. Hardwoods such as redwood, Cyprus or mahogany will raise the price over $30 per surface square foot but add an element of beauty to your wall. Railroad ties are the most commonly used wood for a retaining wall, and prices for this type of wall cost between $25 and $30 per square foot of wall.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall ranges between $8.59 - $11.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 
A natural stone wall will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot based on the type of stone chosen. A concrete block wall costs $6.10 to $7.60 per linear foot. Homeowners will also need to pay for any other materials needed, including steel bars, sand to keep the stones from rubbing against each other and mortar. Cost of Materials. The cost of adding a new wall to a home depends on the material used. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot. Hollow bricks feature a unique design with a durable shell and a hollow space in the center of each brick
But, you're not going to build that wall for ~$20 per linear foot, and even a fairly small lot needs a lot of fence or block... If your lot is 100 feet by 50 feet, that might be three-hundred feet of something... Originally Posted by Zippyman. A 6 foot wall runs about $20-$25 per linear foot installed. So figure on $2500~ish with hauling away the old fence.