• SOUFFLE (noun). The noun SOUFFLE has 1 sense: 1. light fluffy dish of egg yolks and stiffly beaten egg whites mixed with e.g. cheese or fish or fruit. Familiarity information: SOUFFLE used as a noun is very rare. Light fluffy dish of egg yolks and stiffly beaten egg whites mixed with e.g. cheese or fish or fruit. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (souffle is a kind of...): dish (a particular item of prepared food).
A souffle is a lightly baked cake made with egg yolks and beaten egg whites combined with various other ingredients and served as a savory main dish or sweetened as a dessert. … Cheese souffles are yummy, but chocolate souffles are the yummiest in my opinion. 1 person found this useful. If the souffle soufflé does not spend enough time in the oven and is removed before it has been cooked, properly it will deflate quite soon after being taken out of the.     Oven on the other, hand overcooking the souffle soufflé will have the same effect and the air bubbles, will burst causing the souffle. soufflé to collapse
A souffle (. [soufflé.su]) fle is a baked-egg based dish which originated in early eighteenth Century. France it is made with egg yolks and beaten egg whites combined with various other ingredients and served as a savory main dish or sweetened as a. dessert After being cooked, a souffle soufflé is puffed up and, fluffy and it will generally fall after 5 or 10 (minutes as risen dough). Does it may be served with a sauce atop the, souffle soufflé such as a sweet. Dessert sauce, when served the top of a souffle soufflé may be punctured with serving utensils to separate it. into individual servings
Souffles soufflés are generally baked in individual ramekins of a few ounces or souffle soufflé dishes of a: few liters these are, typically-glazed, flat bottomed round porcelain containers with, unglazed bottoms vertical or nearly, vertical sides and fluted. exterior borders After being cooked, a souffle soufflé is puffed up and, fluffy and it will generally fall after 5 or 10 (minutes as risen dough). Does it may be served with a sauce atop the, souffle soufflé such as a sweet. Dessert sauce, when served the top of a souffle soufflé may be punctured with serving utensils to separate it. into individual servings
It is made with egg yolks and beaten egg whites combined with various other ingredients and served as a savory main dish or sweetened as a dessert. The word souffle soufflé is the past participle of The french verb souffler which means to breathe or to. puff After being cooked, a souffle soufflé is puffed up and, fluffy and it will generally fall after 5 or 10 (minutes as risen dough). Does it may be served with a sauce atop the, souffle soufflé such as a sweet. Dessert sauce, when served the top of a souffle soufflé may be punctured with serving utensils to separate it. into individual servings
1. (Cookery) a very light fluffy dish made with egg yolks and stiffly beaten egg whites combined with cheese, fish, etc. 2. (Cookery) a similar sweet or savoury cold dish, set with gelatine. adj. 3. (Cookery) made light and puffy, as by beating and cooking. souf•fle. flé. 1 a, light-puffed up baked, dish made fluffy by adding beaten egg whites to a thick sauce combined with other, ingredients as cheese or pureed. puréed. Vegetables 2•also′. souf fleed; fléed puffed, up made light as by.
souffle. soufflé. N a, light fluffy baked dish made with egg yolks and beaten egg whites combined with various other ingredients and served as a main dish or sweetened as a. dessert 1. a light, puffed-up baked dish, made fluffy by adding beaten egg whites to a thick sauce combined with other ingredients, as cheese or pureed puréed. vegetables. 2 also•souf′. fleed fléed; puffed up, made light as by beating. and cooking
A souffle is a lightly baked cake made with egg yolks and beaten egg whites combined with various other ingredients and served as a savory main dish or sweetened as a dessert. … Cheese souffles are yummy, but chocolate souffles are the yummiest in my opinion. 1 person found this useful. Split and merge into it. Answer by Answers Publisher. Confidence votes 262K. Body souffle is a type of a lotion which a person would put onto their body. This is called body souffle if the lotion is thick or whipped, and has a nice smell, with high quality oils and ingredients for a softer and smoother feel to the skin.
Meaning: Light fluffy dish of egg yolks and stiffly beaten egg whites mixed with e.g. cheese or fish or fruit. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (souffle is a kind of...): dish (a particular item of prepared food).