Gymnema sylvestre can be helpful in controlling blood sugar levels in people with diabetes when used in conjunction with insulin. Gymnema sylvestre can be helpful in controlling blood sugar levels in people with type 1 diabetes. Gymnema sylvestre, when used in conjunction with a healthy diet and traditional medications, may help diabetics control blood sugar levels. Post 6. Gymnema sylvestre from China or India may differ in their gymnemic acid contents, that which is responsible for the anti-sweetness activity. that said, you do need to be sure your source of this material, especially as an extract, comes from a safe source and is extracted in an approved manner.
Common names include gymnema, cowplant, Australian cowplant, gurmari, gurmarbooti, gurmar, periploca of the woods, meshasringa (मेषशृंग) , Bedki cha pala (बेडकीचा पाला) and miracle fruit (also a common name for two unrelated plants). 
A paper entitled, “Antidiabetic effect of a leaf extract from Gymnema sylvestre in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients,” documented twenty-two patients with type-2 diabetes, all who were taking oral diabetic medication. Appetite Suppression: The gymnema plant contains a number of compounds, such as acidic glycosides and anthroquinones. The primary bioactive constituent of gymnema, known as gymnemic acid, is found in the leaves and roots. Gymnemic acids are sweetness inhibitors.
Gymnema sylvestre extract derives from the leaves of a climbing plant native to the forests of central and south India. An effective natural treatment for diabetes, gymnema leaves have been used in traditional medicine since the 6th century B.C. Research has shown that Gymnema sylvestre extract is an effective therapy for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In one clinical trial, 22 people with type 2 diabetes who were taking oral diabetes drugs also took 400 mg of Gymnema sylvestre extract (as GS4) daily.
It is also for sure, that if you are a diabetic (type 1 or 2), and decide to use gymnema, you can take the benefits of what can do Gymnema sylvestre for controlling diabetes. For your information, the very first uses of this herb are by Ayuverdic Medicine of Indians. 
Gymnema sylvestre is a plant used in India and parts of Asia as a natural treatment for diabetes or “sweet urine .” The herb’s active ingredient, gymnemic acid, is extracted from leaves and roots, and helps to lower and balance blood sugar levels. Post 6. Gymnema sylvestre from China or India may differ in their gymnemic acid contents, that which is responsible for the anti-sweetness activity. that said, you do need to be sure your source of this material, especially as an extract, comes from a safe source and is extracted in an approved manner.
1 Diabetes. 2  Early research suggests that taking a specific gymnema extract (GS4) by mouth, in combination with insulin or diabetes medications, can enhance blood sugar reduction in people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. 1 Weight loss. 2  Early research suggests that taking a specific combination of gymnema extract, hydroxycitric acid, and niacin-bound chromium by mouth for 8 weeks might reduce body weight in people who are overweight or obese.
1 Early research suggests that taking a specific gymnema extract (GS4) by mouth, in combination with insulin or diabetes medications, can enhance blood sugar reduction in people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. 1 Weight loss. 2  Early research suggests that taking a specific combination of gymnema extract, hydroxycitric acid, and niacin-bound chromium by mouth for 8 weeks might reduce body weight in people who are overweight or obese.
The leaves are used to make medicine. Gymnema has a long history of use in India’s Ayurvedic medicine. The Hindi name, gurmar, means destroyer of sugar.. Today, gymnema is used for diabetes, metabolic syndrome, weight loss, and cough. 1 Weight loss. 2  Early research suggests that taking a specific combination of gymnema extract, hydroxycitric acid, and niacin-bound chromium by mouth for 8 weeks might reduce body weight in people who are overweight or obese.