The magnitude of the force is equal to the product of the mass of the body and its acceleration. b. a static influence that produces an elastic strain in a body or system or bears weight. To gain by the use of force or coercion: force a confession. b. To move or effect against resistance or inertia: forced my foot into the shoe. c. To inflict or impose relentlessly: He forced his ideas upon the group.
force. n. 1. The capacity to do work or cause physical change; energy, strength, or active power: the force of an explosion. 2. a. Power made operative against resistance; exertion: use force in driving a nail. b. The use of physical power or violence to compel or restrain: a confession obtained by force. To gain by the use of force or coercion: force a confession. b. To move or effect against resistance or inertia: forced my foot into the shoe. c. To inflict or impose relentlessly: He forced his ideas upon the group.
Related concepts to force include: thrust, which increases the velocity of an object; drag, which decreases the velocity of an object; and torque, which produces changes in rotational speed of an object. Force can also be described by intuitive concepts such as a push or a pull. A force has both magnitude and direction, making it a vector quantity. It is measured in the SI unit of newtons and represented by the symbol F.
A net force is a measure of the force being exerted on an  object; zero net force means an object is at rest or moving at a  constant speed.    Definition of net forc … e:   The net force on an object is the vector sum of all  individual forces acting on it. . + 15 others found this useful. Michelle Cox. Confidence votes 291. Net force is the amount of force that is making the object change direction or motion. For example: the net force on someone standing on the floor is zero, even though gravity is exerting a force on them.
The Meaning of Force. A force is a push or pull upon an object resulting from the object's interaction with another object. Whenever there is an interaction between two objects, there is a force upon each of the objects. When the interaction ceases, the two objects no longer experience the force. Forces.
For example, if there is a 10N force acting upwards, and a 5N force acting downwards, then the net force is 5N upwards. A Fo … rce is any influence that causes an object to undergo a change in speed, a change in direction, or a change in shape. An example of Force is a cart being pulled up a hill. Confidence votes 291. Net force is the amount of force that is making the object change direction or motion. For example: the net force on someone standing on the floor is zero, even though gravity is exerting a force on them.
In physics, a force is any interaction that, when unopposed, will change the motion of an object. In other words, a force can cause an object with mass to change its velocity (which includes to begin moving from a state of rest), i.e., to accelerate. Force can also be described by intuitive concepts such as a push or a pull. A force has both magnitude and direction, making it a vector quantity. It is measured in the SI unit of newtons and represented by the symbol F.
dominion stresses sovereign power or supreme authority. power, force, energy, strength, might mean the ability to exert effort. power may imply latent or exerted physical, mental, or spiritual ability to act or be acted upon. force implies the actual effective exercise of power. energy applies to power expended or capable of being transformed into work. 
This woman is having to force open a jar. The definition of force is strength or power. 1  An example of force is someone using their hand to push open a door. 1 the intensity of power; impetus: the force of a blow. 2  physical power or strength exerted against a person or thing: to use force in opening a door. 3  the use of physical power to overcome or restrain a person; physical coercion; violence: to resort to force in dispersing a mob.
By Andrew Zimmerman Jones. Definition: Force is a quantitative description of the interaction between two physical bodies, such as an object and its environment. Force is proportional to acceleration. In calculus terms, force is the derivative of momentum with respect to time. 