Protection from influenza vaccine is thought to persist for a year because of waning antibody and because of changes in the circulating influenza virus from year to year. Antibody persistence may be shorter for persons age 65 years and older.
Based on their predictions, the flu vaccine is formulated to protect against those three or four strains. When the experts have made a good match, the vaccine is up to 90% effective in healthy adults. For those age 65 and older, a high-dose version of the flu vaccine called Fluzone is recommended when available.
Flu vaccination provides protection against the influenza strains contained in the seasonal vaccine for the entire season. Vaccination can begin as soon as vaccine becomes available.
Still, we want everybody to get influenza vaccine each and every year since the vaccine is slightly different from year to year and you want maximal protection for that upcoming flu season as quickly as possible and as early as possible.
A. Flu vaccines are different from vaccines for other diseases, such as measles, because they are given every year. The chief reason, experts say, is not that the vaccine wears off, but that flu viruses mutate so fast as they move around the world.
In general, the flu vaccine works best among healthy adults and children older than 2 years of age. Reduced benefits of flu vaccine are often found in studies of young children (e.g., those younger than 2 years of age) and older adults (e.g., adults 65 years of age and older).
Influenza vaccine is recommended for all people over 6 months of age, it is an inexpensive way of protecting yourself, your family and your community from the spread of influenza. How long does protection from the vaccine last? The vaccine takes about 2 weeks to work and will last for about 12 months.
Everyone 6 months of age and older should get a flu vaccine every season. This recommendation has been in place since February 24, 2010 when CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) voted for “universal” flu vaccination in the United States to expand protection against the flu to more people.
In a young, healthy person, protection might last for years, even as circulating flu strains change. Conversely, he said, there is some debate about whether older people or those with compromised immune systems ought to get two flu shots per season, since a shot they got in October may wear off by March or April.