Private company (Pty) Ltd. A private company is a separate legal entity distinct from its shareholders. A private company is liable for its debts and creditors cannot sue the shareholders for the payment of these debts. . A private company can have up to 50 shareholders. 
Under Australian law, a proprietary limited company (abbreviated as 'Pty Ltd') is a business structure that has at least one shareholder with a limited number of shares. Its counterparts include the public limited company (Ltd) and the Unlimited Proprietary company (Pty) with a share capital. A proprietary company is a form of privately held company in Australia and South Africa that is either limited or unlimited. However, unlike a public company there are, depending on jurisdiction, restrictions on what it can and cannot do
A Private Company (Pty limited) is treated by South African law as a separate legal entity and has to register as a tax payer in its own right. A Private Company (Pty limited) has a separate life from its owners and is required by the The Companies Act, No 71 of 2008 to perform rights and duties of its own. The owners of a Private Company (Pty limited) are shareholders. 1 A Private Company ((Pty) limited) articles must restrict the right to transfer its shares, and prohibit any offer to the public for the subscription of any shares or debentures of the company. 2  A Private Company ((Pty) limited) cannot, therefore, be listed on the stock exchange.
A Pty.. means proprietary. Under Australian laws, it is a corporate entity that has at least one shareholder with a limited number of shares. The difference between a Pty. and a corporation is that its shareholders potentially have unlimited liability. Ltd. means private limited company.
PTY, usually used in conjunction with Ltd, thus (Pty) Ltd, stands for (Proprietary). PTY representing Proprietary means private ownership. This illustrates one of the main features of PTY LTD Companies: that is, their shareholders are not publically declared, only their directors. What does Ltd stand for? Ltd as used in the designation of a private or public company, for example, either Bilkovo (Pty) Ltd or Bilkovo Ltd, stands for Limited and refers to the limitation on the liability of company shareholders and
In South Africa you have either a public company or a private company (I wil ignore the other two for now). Private company nust include designation (Proprietary) Limited or (Pty) Ltd behind its name. Public company must include Limited or Ltd behind its name. In this format (at least in Australia) it is short for Proprietary Limited company. This is a private company. It is run by directors and owned by shareholders. 
What is a PTY LTD Company. Pty Ltd is an abbreviation for Proprietary Limited. Proprietary means the company is privately held and the Limited means the liability of the shareholders to pay the debts of the company is limited by the amount of shares. Australian Pty Ltd companies have a few requirements and restrictions: 1  Must have at least one director that lives in Australia.
The private company equivalent in Australia is the Proprietary Limited company (Pty. Ltd.) An Australian company with only Limited or Ltd. after its name is a public company, such as a company listed on the ASX (although public companies can be, and often are, unlisted). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In a limited company, the liability of members or subscribers of the company is limited to what they have invested or guaranteed to the company. Limited companies may be limited by shares or by guarantee.
1 Unlimited Proprietary (Pty) company with a share capital, similar to its limited company (Ltd or Pty Ltd) counterpart, but where the members' or shareholders' liability is not limited. A proprietary company is a form of privately held company in Australia and South Africa that is either limited or unlimited. However, unlike a public company there are, depending on jurisdiction, restrictions on what it can and cannot do