Hi, To change port settings. 1  Open Device Manager. 2  Double-click Ports (COM & LPT) . 3  Right-click the port for which you want to change settings, and then click Properties. 4  On the Port Settings tab, make the appropriate changes. To change the COM port for a modem. 1  Open Phone and Modem Options in Control Panel. 2  On the Modems tab, click the modem you want to configure, and then click Properties. 3  On the Advanced tab, click Advanced Port Settings. 4  If this option is not displayed, the modem does not support changing the assigned COM port
Right-click the name of the network printer of which you want to change the port name. Click Printer Properties and the Ports tab to open it. Related Reading: The USB Ports Don't Detect the Printer After an Install. Step 4. Type the port name you would like to use for the printer. The port name should already be highlighted blue, meaning that you can just type the name you want, but if it isn't click in the text box to the right of Port Name:, press Ctrl-A and release them, then type the port name you want. Step 5.
To change port settings. 1. Open Device Manager. 2. Double-click Ports (COM & LPT) . 3. Right-click the port for which you want to change settings, and then click Properties. 4. On the Port Settings tab, make the desired changes. Note.
Normally windows would detect the change. Otherwise go to control panel, select 'printers and other hardware', then select 'view installed printers etc'. You should see an icon for the printer you are using. Right click the icon and choose properties. Select the 'ports' tab. Here you will see a list of the ports options. Tick the box next to the USB port you wish to use. This will set that port to the first option the computer will try when printing. 
Printer properties cover many categories of options, including those related to printer drivers, printer ports, printer sharing, setting printer permissions for other users, deciding when the printer is available on a network, printing a test page, and so on. You can also open printer properties in Printers and Faxes by clicking a printer, and then clicking Set printer properties under Tasks on the left side of the window. This option is available only if folders are set to look like a Web page and a printer is selected. For more information, click Related Topics.
Printers. After you define a Windows printer, you can change the printer s port settings at any time. Open the Printers folder. Right-click the printer, and select Properties. From the Properties dialog box, select the Ports tab. Verify that the correct port is selected, and then click Configure Port. Configure the settings that correspond to the selected port.
Steve Winograd replied on December 22, 2009. Go to Control Panel Devices and Printers, click an installed printer, and click Print server properties Ports. See if you can delete the bad port there. If all else fails, you can change the print server's port name in the Configuration System page of its web interface. 