How long does an employer have to keep your payroll time cards/time. How long does an employer have to keep your payroll time cards/time sheets after you have been terminated. 
Businesses should keep employee time sheets for as long as they might need them for tax purposes. If the IRS requests the company's or an employees payroll or tax information, you may need the time sheets to verify that your forms are correct. I'd say keep the time sheets for at least 2 or 3 years. You should keep employees time cards for at least one year. This  will allow for easy reference if any dispute arises when filing tax  forms.
You need to keep employee records as long as you may need them for tax records. I would say at least 2 or 3 years to make sure everything was process properly and the IRS does … n't have issues with any of it. You should keep employees time cards for at least one year. This  will allow for easy reference if any dispute arises when filing tax  forms.
Employee time cards should be kept for at least two years. For  employee leave and absences, records should be kept for at least  three years. Federal Law Federal law requires you to keep application records of non-hires for one to two years and hired employees for one year. The time period is affected by your compa … ny size and type of organization, including affirmative action.
What About Timekeeping: Employers may use any timekeeping method they choose. For example, they may use a time clock, have a timekeeper keep track of employee's work hours, or tell their workers to write their own times on the records. Any timekeeping plan is acceptable as long as it is complete and accurate. 
I was fired from my employer 3 weeks before they closed the business, and they were not paying my minimum wage. I contacted the State of Missouri's Labor Division, they in turn, contacted the employer who said they no longer had any time cards. I cannot prove I worked overtime EVERY week without those. It only states a 40 hour work week on my paycheck stub. I was fired from my employer 3 weeks before they closed the business, and they were not paying my minimum wage. I contacted the State of Missouri's Labor Division, they in turn, contacted the employer who said they no longer had any time cards. I cannot prove I worked overtime EVERY week without those. It only...
Payroll time cards and other time keeping records must be available for inspection as required by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division. The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has established record keeping requirements affecting employers. Among these requirements is the length of time an employer must keep payroll time cards.
The North Carolina Wage and Hour Act (WHA) does not require that an employer have a time clock or use time cards, and the WHA does not state who may or may not punch an employee's time card. In fact, the WHA does not require that time cards be signed by either the employer or employee. The WHA does require that an employer keep an accurate record of how many hours a day and how many hours each workweek its employees work. 
Employee time cards should be kept for at least two years. For  employee leave and absences, records should be kept for at least  three years. You should keep employees time cards for at least one year. This  will allow for easy reference if any dispute arises when filing tax  forms.