prEN 15038:2004 (E) 4 Introduction The purpose of this European standard is to establish and define the requirements for the provision of quality translation services. It encompasses the translation process and all other steps involved in providing the relevant service. This standard offers both translation service providers and their clients a transparent description and definition of the entire process. At the same time it is designed to provide translation service providers with a set of procedures and standard requirements to enable them to meet market requirements.
prEN 15038:2004 (E) 5 1 Scope This European Standard specifies the requirements for translation service providers (TSP), involving human and technical resources, quality and project management, the contractual framework, procedures, added value services and term definitions. This standard offers both translation service providers and their clients a transparent description and definition of the entire process. At the same time it is designed to provide translation service providers with a set of procedures and standard requirements to enable them to meet market requirements.
Composition. T-Pren consists of two metal strips connected by a high quality neoprene expansion joint. The joint is formed on both sides of the metal during vulcanisation of the neoprene, and for lead T-Pren Plus a separate cover strip is vulcanised on top of the neoprene. Lead T-Pren is supplied in 3 metre long coils and the other metals in 6 metre coils. Lead T-Pren Plus is supplied in 1.5 metre coils. Other metal gauges and roll lengths are available to special order.
prEN 15038:2004 (E) 9 4.4 Client-TSP agreement On the basis of the quotation submitted, the TSP shall enter into an agreement with the client to provide the service product. The agreement shall include at least the commercial terms and the specifications of the service product. This standard offers both translation service providers and their clients a transparent description and definition of the entire process. At the same time it is designed to provide translation service providers with a set of procedures and standard requirements to enable them to meet market requirements.
Introduction. Pitting resistance equivalent numbers (PREN) are a theoretical way of comparing the pitting corrosion resistance of various types of stainless steels, based on their chemical compositions. These are 'linear' formulas, where the molybdenum and nitrogen levels are 'weighted' to take account of their strong influence on pitting corrosion resistance. They typically take the form. PREN = Cr + m Mo + n N. where 'm' and 'n' are the factors for molybdenum and nitrogen.
Pitting resistance equivalent number (PREN) is a measurement of the corrosion resistance of various types of stainless steel. Exact testing procedures are specified in the ASTM G48 standard. In general: the higher PREN-value, the more corrosion resistant the steel. The PREN-value is calculated using the following formula: PREN = 1 x %Cr + 3.3 x %Mo + 16 x %N (w/w) Steels with PREN-values above 32 are considered seawater (corrosion) resistant. Furthermore a PREN-value ≥ 40 for duplex steels is called for in the DIN EN ISO 15156 as well as the American NACE – a standard for use in hydrogen sulfide environments known in the oil and gas extraction industries. Exception: stainless steels with molybdenum content ≥ 1.5% may have a PREN-value ≥ 30.
Only then will the proposal be accepted and work on the standard can begin. If there is an existing International Standard on the subject, it will be adopted, unchanged, as the European Standard. If this is not the case, the responsible working body will draw up a manuscript for the draft standard (prEN). The draft standard is then made available to all ISO (or IEC) members, who have three months to submit their national position and comments. In Germany, the responsible working body can decide to publish a German-language draft of a DIN ISO Standard or DIN IEC Standard.
Standards are all around us, even if we are not always aware of them. One example of a widely-used standard is the A4 size for sheets of paper. A standard is a document that sets out requirements for a specific item, material, component, system or service, or describes in detail a particular method or procedure. Standards facilitate international trade by ensuring compatibility and interoperability of components, products and services. Therefore, a European Standard (EN) automatically becomes a national standard in each of the 33 CEN-CENELEC member countries. Standards are voluntary which means that there is no automatic legal obligation to apply them. However, laws and regulations may refer to standards and even make compliance with them compulsory.