Epidemiology is a field where trained epidemiologists study patterns of frequency and the causes and effects of diseases in human populations. Epidemiology provides the scientific footings for evidence-based medicine and allows placement of strategies for improvement in public health. 1 Most epidemiologists have a Master’s Degree in Public Health (MPH) or a related field. 2  Epidemiology graduate programs provide students with the skills to investigate and analyze the root causes and spread of disease to develop methods of prevention and control.
Epidemiologists study disease transmission. Vaccination for a virus. An epidemiologist may study public health crises in a given country. An epidemiologist may study car crashes as it relates to injuries. An epidemiologist may work with doctors and other health care workers to address specific health issues. View slideshow of images above
Epidemiology is concerned with the incidence of disease in populations and does not address the question of the cause of an individual's disease. This question, sometimes referred to as specific causation, is beyond the domain of the science of epidemiology. Epidemiology is the study of the patterns, causes, and effects of health and disease conditions in defined populations. It is the cornerstone of public health, and shapes policy decisions and evidence-based practice by identifying risk factors for disease and targets for preventive healthcare
When food poisoning or an influenza outbreak attacks a community, the disease detectives or epidemiologists are asked to investigate the cause of disease and control its spread. Epidemiology is the study and control of disease or injury patterns in human populations. Epidemiologists do fieldwork to determine what causes disease or injury, what the risks are, who is at risk and how to prevent further incidences. 
Epidemiologists monitor infectious diseases, bioterrorism threats, and other problem areas for public health agencies. Epidemiologists are public health professionals who investigate patterns and causes of disease and injury in humans. They seek to reduce the risk and occurrence of negative health outcomes through research, community education, and health policy. Epidemiologists collect and analyze data to investigate health issues. For example, an epidemiologist might collect and analyze demographic data to determine who is at the highest risk for a particular disease.
An epidemiologist is a person who studies patterns of diseases or health risks in population groups, societies, and cultures. He or she may look at how diseases affect certain populations, the emergence of viruses in geographical locations, or he or she may track certain diseases. An epidemiologist may study car crashes as it relates to injuries. An epidemiologist may work with doctors and other health care workers to address specific health issues.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An epidemiologist is a bit like a detective. Epidemiology began as the study of epidemics. The doctor/epidemiologist would collect data about every detail that victims of a disease had, and try to figure out what they had in common. A famous example is the British physician Dr. Doll, who evaluated hundreds of patients with lung cancer and compared them with control patients who did not have lung cancer.
Epidemiologists are scientists who study diseases within populations of people. In essence, these public health professionals analyze what causes disease outbreaks in order to treat existing diseases and prevent future outbreaks. However, the importance of what an epidemiologist does can be seen in their national unemployment rate. According to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, the national unemployment rate was 5.7 percent in January 2015. The national unemployment rate of health services professionals, as a whole, was 4 percent.