Long-term use of stool softeners like docusate sodium should be avoided as it leads to dependence. Excessive or prolonged use interferes with normal bowel function, and use of stool softeners should not take the place of healthy lifestyle practices that promote regular bowel movements. Docusate sodium is a stool softener used to treat constipation in cases when the primary problem is hard, dry stool. Physicians also prescribe a stool softener for heart patients and post-operative patients to prevent constipation and the straining during bowel movements that may result.
Uses. This medication is used to treat occasional constipation. Some medications and conditions can make constipation more likely. Stool softeners such as docusate are often the first method used for preventing and treating this type of constipation. Docusate is often used when straining to have a bowel movement should be avoided (e.g., after a heart attack or surgery). Docusate is a stool softener
Over-the-counter laxatives for constipation: Use with caution. Laxatives can help relieve and prevent constipation. But not all laxatives are safe for long-term use. Overuse of certain laxatives can lead to dependency and decreased bowel function. Digestive Health Subscribe to our Digestive Health e-newsletter to stay up to date on digestive health topics. Laxatives work in different ways, and the effectiveness of each laxative type varies from person to person. In general, bulk-forming laxatives, also referred to as fiber supplements, are the gentlest on your body and safest to use long term. Metamucil and Citrucel fall into this category.
I questioned the long term effect on the use of stool softeners at my last DR visit. I've been taking them for 3 years. Theoretically, it is not an issue. From what I have been able to find on the one I actually use, there can eventually be absorption issues with certain vitamins (the B's) and protein. Talk to your doc. 
Stool softeners: Occasional constipation can be managed at home with stool softeners, such as docusate and polyethylene glycol 3350. A stimulant laxative, such as senna or bisacodyl, can be added if the stool softener alone is not effective, but should not be taken continuously without physician supervision. Get help from a doctor now ›. Yes: Long term use of harsh laxatives like milk of magnesia or castor oil can cause nutritional problems but mainly they cause the colon to become more and more sluggish, causing more laxative use.
I take 2 docusate stool softeners everynight before bed. But I am concerned about long term affects. I know that your not supposed to use laxatives long term, and bleieve it or not, ive never used a laxative. I have IBS that does not respond well to fiber; I can handle oat bran, cooked carrots, and other softer fruits and vegetables, but metamucil and other bulk fiber, nuts, whole grains other than oats, and raw vegetables and many fruits make me worse.
This prevents dry, hard stool masses and makes it easier to have a bowel movement without straining. Stool softeners you can buy over-the-counter are effective for most people. While they are only intended for short-term relief of constipation, using a daily stool softener long-term probably is not harmful. However, there are other ways to help relieve constipation that are often successful. Diet often is one of the main drivers behind constipation.
Uses. This medication is used to treat occasional constipation. Some medications and conditions can make constipation more likely. Stool softeners such as docusate are often the first method used for preventing and treating this type of constipation. Docusate is often used when straining to have a bowel movement should be avoided (e.g., after a heart attack or surgery). 