The article below describes how Wicca draws from the Old Traditions of Witchcraft. While this is true, we would simply like to clarify that Witchcraft and Wicca, while simular in many respects, are not the same. One can be a Witch, without being a Wiccan, just as a person can be a Christian, without being a Baptist. Wicca is a recognized religion, while Witchcraft itself is not considered a religion.
The Wiccan religion, also known as The Craft, Wicca, Benevolent Witchcraft, and The Old Religion is a diverse and decentralized religion that is part of contemporary Paganism. 
Three Parts: Learning about the Wicca Craft Becoming a Wiccan Using Wicca in Everyday Life. Also known as “The Old Religion” and “The Craft,” Wicca is a religion with its own practices, tenets and beliefs rooted in pagan traditions. 3. Learn what magick is and how to use it. Magick within the Wiccan religion is the practice of raising and channeling energy for a purpose. Magick for Wiccans is spelled with a “k” at the end of the word to distinguish it from stage tricks.
3. Learn what Wicca is not. Wicca is not anti-Christian, nor is it against any other religion. It is sometimes known as pre-Christian, since many of its beliefs are rooted in pagan practices of honoring the earth, honoring life and creation, and honoring the Goddess. 3. Learn what magick is and how to use it. Magick within the Wiccan religion is the practice of raising and channeling energy for a purpose. Magick for Wiccans is spelled with a “k” at the end of the word to distinguish it from stage tricks.
Wicca is a Pagan Witchcraft tradition. Today, the name Wicca is frequently applied to the entire system of beliefs and practices that make up the spectrum of contemporary Pagan Witchcraft. 
Learn what Wiccan beliefs are. Wicca is based on a belief of the Goddess at the center of all life and creation. Some versions of Wicca weigh goddesses and gods equally, as there is a general sense in Wicca to believe in duality or balance in the universe. 3. Learn what magick is and how to use it. Magick within the Wiccan religion is the practice of raising and channeling energy for a purpose. Magick for Wiccans is spelled with a “k” at the end of the word to distinguish it from stage tricks.
Wicca does not claim to be the only way but says that all spiritual traditions and paths are valid to those who practice them. It accepts the fact that all life is sacred, including plant, animal, and human. . Generally, Wiccans do not believe in the existence of a devil (they are not Satan worshippers). The Wiccan Rede and the Threefold Law. There are two basic codes by which the Wiccans live. First is the Wiccan Rede which states, An Ye Harm None, Do What Ye Will.. This means that a Wiccan is free to use his or her magic as long as it doesn't harm anyone.
General principles of Wiccan beliefs: Wicca is an almost completely decentralized religion. George Knowles, a Wiccan author, has said: “Wicca has no high authority, no single leader, no prophet and no Bible to dictate its laws and beliefs”. 1 Many, perhaps most, Wiccans are solitary practitioners. Others form small local groups called covens, groves, etc.
Wicca has no central authority. Its traditional core beliefs, principles and practices were originally outlined in the 1940s and 1950s by Gardner and Doreen Valiente, both in published books as well as in secret written and oral teachings passed along to their initiates. An unattributed statement known as the Wiccan Rede is a popular expression of Wiccan morality, although it is not accepted by all Wiccans. Wicca often involves the ritual practice of magic, though it is not always necessary.