The Olmec. The first great civilization of Mesoamerica is the Olmec. The Olmec were the first complex society in the region. Their name comes from what the Aztecs refer to them by: 'The Rubber People', or in the language of the Aztecs, 'The Olmec'. The Olmec did in fact grow rubber trees and harvest rubber. 'Meso' means 'middle', and these Mesoamerican cultures are the early advanced civilizations of Mexico and Central America. First, there were many unique groups inhabiting this region over time, but for our purposes, we are going to focus in on the Olmec, the Maya, and the Aztecs.
The first complex civilization to develop in Mesoamerica was that of the Olmec, who inhabited the gulf coast region of Veracruz throughout the Preclassic period. The main sites of the Olmec include San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan, Tenochtitlán La, venta And Tres. zapotes It is one of six areas in the world where ancient civilization arose independently, and the second in the Americas after Norte Chico (Caral-Supe) in present-day northern coastal Peru. As a cultural area, Mesoamerica is defined by a mosaic of cultural traits developed and shared by its indigenous cultures.
The term Mesoamerica – literally, middle America in Greek – is defined as the area that is home to the Mesoamerican civilization, which comprises a group of peoples with close cultural and historical ties. It is one of six areas in the world where ancient civilization arose independently, and the second in the Americas after Norte Chico (Caral-Supe) in present-day northern coastal Peru. As a cultural area, Mesoamerica is defined by a mosaic of cultural traits developed and shared by its indigenous cultures.
The oldest known civilization was believed to have formed in  Mesopotamia near the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. This was believed  to have happened around 4000 B.C. and that … is a fact! Answered. What is known about the Olmec people is known from the artifacts that were found. In fact, the discovery of thi … s ancient civilization happened by accident. A farmer was clearing land and he found a massive stone head. Later, 17 stone heads were discovered.
The Olmecs were one of the oldest civilizations of Mesoamerica. What is known about the Olmec people is known from the artifacts that were found. In fact, the discovery of thi … s ancient civilization happened by accident. A farmer was clearing land and he found a massive stone head. Later, 17 stone heads were discovered.
Mesoamerica is one of only five regions of the world where writing was independently developed. In Central Mexico, the height of the Classic period saw the ascendancy of the city of Teotihuacan, which formed a military and commercial empire whose political influence stretched south into the Maya area and northward. It is one of six areas in the world where ancient civilization arose independently, and the second in the Americas after Norte Chico (Caral-Supe) in present-day northern coastal Peru. As a cultural area, Mesoamerica is defined by a mosaic of cultural traits developed and shared by its indigenous cultures.
In addition, civilization in Mesoamerica did not have the cultural unity like that enjoyed by, for example, Egypt or China. There were several different societies in Mesoamaerica that rose and fell over time, (most widely known were the Olmec, Zapotec, Toltec, Mixtec, Mexica, Aztec, Inka). 
Mesoamerica is a region and cultural area in the Americas, extending approximately from central Mexico to Belize, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and northern Costa Rica, within which pre-Columbian societies flourished before the Spanish colonization of the Americas in the 15th and 16th centuries. It is one of six areas in the world where ancient civilization arose independently, and the second in the Americas after Norte Chico (Caral-Supe) in present-day northern coastal Peru. As a cultural area, Mesoamerica is defined by a mosaic of cultural traits developed and shared by its indigenous cultures.
The Olmec: The Olmec were the first great Mesoamerican civilization. They thrived along Mexico’s gulf coast, mainly in the present-day states of Veracruz and Tabasco, from about 1200 to 400 B.C., although there were pre-Olmec societies before that and post-Olmec (or Epi-Olmec) societies afterwards. The Olmec civilization is very important to researchers. As the parent civilization of much of Mesoamerica, they had influence out of proportion with their military might or architectural works.
Civilizations. Olmec. The earliest known civilization in Mesoamerica is the Olmec and is considered at the “Mother Culture.” It appears they are the genesis of most of the aspects of the Mesoamerican cultures. 