Psychological disorders, also referred to as mental disorders, are abnormalities of the mind that result in persistent behavior patterns that can seriously affect your day-to-day function and life. Some disorders, such as borderline personality and depression, occur more frequently in women. Others, such as intermittent explosive disorder and substance abuse, are more common in men.
A mental disorder, also called a mental illness, psychological disorder or psychiatric disorder, is mental or behavioral pattern that causes either suffering or a poor ability to function in ordinary life. Many disorders are described. Conditions that are excluded include social norms. Somatoform disorders may be diagnosed when there are problems that appear to originate in the body that are thought to be manifestations of a mental disorder. This includes somatization disorder and conversion disorder. There are also disorders of how a person perceives their body, such as body dysmorphic disorder.
Multiple psychological disorders may exist in one person. The specific causes of psychological disorders are not known, but contributing factors may include chemical imbalances in the brain, childhood experiences, heredity, illnesses, prenatal exposures, and stress. Some disorders, such as borderline personality and depression, occur more frequently in women. Others, such as intermittent explosive disorder and substance abuse, are more common in men. Still other disorders, such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, affect men and women in roughly equal proportion
Psychopathology is the scientific study of mental disorders, including efforts to understand their genetic, biological, psychological, and social causes; effective classification schemes (nosology); course across all stages of development; manifestations; and treatment. Examples of Disorders classified within the DSM include: 1  Major Depressive Disorder is a mood disorder defined by symptoms of loss of motivation, decreased mood, lack of energy and thoughts of suicide. 2  Bipolar Disorders are mood disorders characterized by depressive and manic episodes of varying lengths and degrees.
Definition of PSYCHOPATHOLOGY. : the study of psychological and behavioral dysfunction occurring in mental disorder or in social disorganization; also: such dysfunction. — psy·cho·path·o·log·i·cal \-ˌpa-thə-ˈlae-ˈlä-ji\ kəl also·psy·cho·path·o·log \-ic\ jik. adjective : the study of psychological and behavioral dysfunction occurring in mental disorder or in social disorganization; also: such dysfunction. — psy·cho·path·o·log·i·cal \-ˌpa-thə-ˈlae-ˈlä-ji\ kəl also·psy·cho·path·o·log \-ic\ jik. — adjective·psy·cho·path·o·log·i·cal \-ly-ji(k-)ə\ lē. adverb
Medical Definition of PSYCHOPATHOLOGY. 1. : the study of psychological and behavioral dysfunction occurring in mental disorder or in social disorganization. 2. : the study of psychological and behavioral dysfunction occurring in mental disorder or in social disorganization; also: such dysfunction. — psy·cho·path·o·log·i·cal \-ˌpa-thə-ˈlae-ˈlä-ji\ kəl also·psy·cho·path·o·log \-ic\ jik. — adjective·psy·cho·path·o·log·i·cal \-ly-ji(k-)ə\ lē. adverb
psychopathology. 1. the branch of medicine dealing with the causes and processes of mental disorders. 2. abnormal, maladaptive behavior or mental activity. psychopathology. [-pəthol′əjē]. 1 the study of the causes, processes, and manifestations of mental disorders. 2 the behavioral manifestation of any mental disorder. See also psychiatr
Wholly, Psychopathology is defined as the origin of mental disorders, how they develop, and the symptoms they might produce in a person. Examples of Disorders classified within the DSM include: 1  Major Depressive Disorder is a mood disorder defined by symptoms of loss of motivation, decreased mood, lack of energy and thoughts of suicide. 2  Bipolar Disorders are mood disorders characterized by depressive and manic episodes of varying lengths and degrees.
Definition of PSYCHOPATHOLOGY. : the study of psychological and behavioral dysfunction occurring in mental disorder or in social disorganization; also: such dysfunction. — psy·cho·path·o·log·i·cal \-ˌpa-thə-ˈlae-ˈlä-ji\ kəl also·psy·cho·path·o·log \-ic\ jik. — adjective·psy·cho·path·o·log·i·cal \-ly-ji(k-)ə\ lē. adverb