While UV will provide clear water it does not filter the pond water. One concern of using UV in a pond is that some people will look at their perfectly clear pond and think that the water quality must be good for the fish. You can have clear water and still have water that would be detrimental to the fish. 
The aquarium UV Sterilizer is a water filtration device that uses an ultraviolet light bulb to kill microscopic organisms that are free floating in the water. Parasites, viruses, algae and bacteria (good and bad) are the type of things that are killed after passing through the ultraviolet sterilizing unit. When using a UV Sterilizer in a home aquarium, the UV unit should be placed last in the filtration line. You want to first filter the aquarium water through your mechanical filter and then run the water through the UV device before returning the water to your fish tank.
Put simply, UV filters reduce haziness created by ultraviolet lights. Lets have a quick physics lesson. Ultraviolet light is electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength shorter than that of visible light, but longer than x-rays, in the range 10 nm to 400 nm.
UV filters are sometimes referred to as L37 or L39 filters, depending on the wavelengths of light that they filter out; an L37 filter removes ultraviolet light with a wavelength shorter than 370 nm, whereas an L39 filter eliminates light with a wavelength shorter than 390 nm. However, in photography, the term UV filter can be also be misused as a filter that passes UV light while blocking other wavelengths in the light spectrum, in the same way the term IR filter is also sometimes misused. The correct names for such filters though, are UV pass filter and IR pass filter
UV water purification is usually used with other forms of filtration such as reverse osmosis systems or carbon block filters. UV systems are an effective means of water disinfection for residential point of entry use to help disinfect the entire home. 1 Chemical Free: UV purification does not use any chemicals like chlorine or leave any harmful by products. 2  Taste & Odor Free: UV does not add any chemical taste or odor to the water. 3  Extremely Effective: One of the most effective ways to kill disease-causing microbes by destroying 99.99%.
UV filters are individual compounds or mixtures to prevent ultraviolet (UV) light from getting through. UV filters are used in sunscreens to protect skin or in photography to reduce the level of ultraviolet light that strikes the recording medium. Historically, photographic films were mostly sensitive to UV light, which caused haziness or fogginess, and in color films a bluish hue. However, in photography, the term UV filter can be also be misused as a filter that passes UV light while blocking other wavelengths in the light spectrum, in the same way the term IR filter is also sometimes misused. The correct names for such filters though, are UV pass filter and IR pass filter
Somewhere on here is a comparison showing that several of the common UV filters just don't do much of anything. The theory is that UV light can expose film, but isn't necessarily part of the visible image you see. And supposedly haze seen at long distances has more UV. A good UV filter should have a very slight yellowish tinge. A good UV filter will cut haze and improve the contrast of clouds in the sky. If you go up in altitude, UV increases and you will get bluer and bluer appearing pictures.
Most ultraviolet purification systems are combined with various forms of filtration, as UV light is only capable of killing microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses, molds, algae, yeast, and oocysts like cryptosporidium and giardia. Ultraviolet Water Purification-UV. Ultraviolet water purification lamps produce UV-C or germicidal UV, radiation of much greater intensity than sunlight. Almost all of a UV lamp's output is concentrated in the 254 nanometers (nm) region in order to take full advantage of the germicidal properties of this wavelength.