Confidence votes 2.7K. When supply goes up, price will go down. This is a result in the shift of the equilibrium price. Drawing graphs will help you conceptualize the results of different curves shifting in different directions. 
DEFINITION of 'Equilibrium'. The state in which market supply and demand balance each other and, as a result, prices become stable. Generally, when there is too much supply for goods or services, the price goes down, which results in higher demand. The balancing effect of supply and demand results in a state of equilibrium. BREAKING DOWN 'Equilibrium'. The equilibrium price is where the supply of goods matches demand. When a major index experiences a period of consolidation or sideways momentum, it can be said that the forces of supply and demand are relatively equal and that the market i
When we shift the demand curve to the left, we see that we now have a new equilibrium point. This point is lower, and to the left of the original equilibrium level. When we draw the lines to the price and quantity axis, we can see that both equilibrium price and equilibrium quantity have gone down. If we start out with the typical supply and demand graph, we know that equilibrium is going to be where the supply and demand curves cross. We can see this point on the graph to the right. When you draw a line straight down from the intersection point you can find equilibrium quantity.
Best Answer: 1. Lower, there will be excess supply and not enough demand to meet the supply, therefore, produces would be forced to lower their price (equilibrium) of good or service. This is what is called a 'glut' or 'overproduction', when supply is in excess. 2. When there is not enough supply to fulfill the demand. Therefore the producers would be forced to increase their price (equilibrium) so demand will decrease and ultimately supply will meet demand. This is what is called a shortage, when demand exceeds supply.
Split and merge into it. Answer by William Mallya. When supply goes down the equilibrium price tend also to fall causing the price of commodities to fall and hence shortage of goods and services to the economy. If there is an increase in supply, the supply curve will be shifted to the right. This leads to a decrease in the equilibrium price and an increase in equilibrium quantity. T … his is easy to see if you draw it out.
What happens to equilibrium price and quantity when demand goes down. Labels: economics, equilibrium, supply and demand. Spread the knowledge! This economics post is going to go over the economic concept of a reduction in demand. If we start out with the typical supply and demand graph, we know that equilibrium is going to be where the supply and demand curves cross. We can see this point on the graph to the right. When you draw a line straight down from the intersection point you can find equilibrium quantity.
User: What happens to the equilibrium price when supply goes down? A. The price goes up. B. The price goes down. C. The price stays the same. D. The price goes up, and then goes down. Reset SelectionWeegy: What happens to the equilibrium price when supply goes down? A. The price goes up.Expert answered|brunaleski|Points 1117|User: Advances in technology have reduced the cost of manufacturing MP3 players. If demand does not change, A. more MP3 players will be sold at a higher price
What happens to the equilibrium price when supply goes down? A. The price goes up. B. The price goes down. C. The price stays the same. D. The price goes up, and then goes down. 
What happens to the equilibrium price when supply goes down? A. The price goes up. B. The price goes down. C. The price stays the same. D. The price goes up, and then goes down. 