Hot air pumps blow air hot enough to melt all the solder around a small surface mounted part, and can be used for soldering parts in place, and for desoldering followed by removal before the solder solidifies by a vacuum pump or with tweezers. Desoldering braid, also known as desoldering wick or solder wick, is finely braided 18 to 42 AWG copper wire coated with rosin flux, usually supplied on a roll. The end of a length of braid is placed over the soldered connections of a component being removed.
A desoldering pump aids in the removal of the liquid solder. Typically a one shot device, the pump is operated by a spring-loaded vacuum pump and controlled by a simple trigger. By following a basic process, you can remove solder from most electronic circuit boards. Actuate the desoldering pump by pulling the spring lever to the rear of the pump. You will hear a click as the trigger holds the spring. Place the desoldering pump in one hand and the soldering iron in the other. This is a two-handed operation since you must quickly suck up the molten solder. Touch the tip of the heated iron to the solder joint. Allow the solder to become fully liquid. Move the tip of the pump next to the molten solder
A desoldering pump, colloquially known as a solder sucker, is a manually-operated device which is used to remove solder from a printed circuit board. There are two types: the plunger style and bulb style. (An electrically-operated pump for this purpose would usually be called a vacuum pump .). Desoldering braid, also known as desoldering wick or solder wick, is finely braided 18 to 42 AWG copper wire coated with rosin flux, usually supplied on a roll. The end of a length of braid is placed over the soldered connections of a component being removed.
In electronics, desoldering is the removal of solder and components from a circuit board for troubleshooting, repair, replacement, and salvage. Desoldering braid, also known as desoldering wick or solder wick, is finely braided 18 to 42 AWG copper wire coated with rosin flux, usually supplied on a roll. The end of a length of braid is placed over the soldered connections of a component being removed.
DESOLDERING is the process of removing soldered components from a circuit made on PCB. Desoldering pump along with the soldering iron is used for this purpose. A desoldering pump also known as solder sucker is a small mechanical device which sucks the liquid/molten solder from the joint where the components are mounted. In order to desolder a component from the PCB, we first heat up the solder joint with the soldering iron till the solder liquefies/melts. This process is repeated until all the residue solder is sucked by the pump and the hole on the PCB is clear to solder a fresh component. Above image shows a desoldering pump-head, trigger and button of the soldering pump are marked.
Confidence votes 263K. A desoldering pump is a device that removes molten solder during the process of soldering. The molten solder cools in the pump and can then be removed
Desoldering tools and materials include the following: 1  Solder wick. 2  Heat guns, also called hot air guns. 3  Desoldering pump. 4  Removal alloys. 5  Removal fluxes. 6  Heated soldering tweezers. 7  Various picks and tweezers for tasks such as pulling at, holding, removing, and scraping components. Desoldering braid, also known as desoldering wick or solder wick, is finely braided 18 to 42 AWG copper wire coated with rosin flux, usually supplied on a roll. The end of a length of braid is placed over the soldered connections of a component being removed.