The Roots of Drama Drama is a Greek word meaning “to do” or “to act”. Drama is rooted in sacred ritual. It has been built on traditions that are up to 2500 years old. The earliest forms of civilization acted out activities that were important to them before engaging in them. 
Dionysus was the Greek god of harvest and wine. He is important for  Greek theater because the first dramas that had a similar, although  primitive structure as the posterio … r works of authors as Sophocles  and Euripides, were performed during the festivities dedicated to  him, the 'City Dionysia'. Jason Harmon. 
Greek comedy was a popular and influential form of theatre performed across ancient Greece from the 6th century BCE. The most famous playwrights of the genre were Aristophanes and Menander and their works, and those of their contemporaries, poked fun at politicians, philosophers, and fellow artists. Performed in an open-air theatre (theatron) such as that of Dionysos in Athens and seemingly open to all of the male populace (the presence of women is contested), the plot of a tragedy was almost always inspired by episodes from Greek mythology, which we must remember were often a part of Greek religion.
Another convention that is distinctly a theatre convention devised by the promoters of Greek tragedy and still very much in use today concerns the ekkylema. The term ekkyklema has a double meaning, as a verb and as a noun. As a verb it means revealing an action or activity. 
Greek tragedy is a form of theatre from Ancient Greece and Asia Minor. It reached its most significant form in Athens in the 5th century BC. Greek tragedy is an extension of the ancient rites carried out in honor of Dionysus, and it heavily influenced the theatre of Ancient Rome and the Renaissance. Tragic plots were most often based upon myths from the oral traditions of archaic epics. The structure of Greek tragedy is characterized by a set of conventions. The tragedy usually begins with a prologue, (from pro and logos, preliminary speech) in which one or more characters introduce the drama and explain the background of the ensuing story.
The conventions of the Greek theatre were different from ours. First of all, all dramas took place in the daytime without artificial lighting. Time of day can be indicated only by verbal reference to it or by torches which might be used to suggest that it is night. Oedipus View more presentations from debbieg. Conventions of the Theatre. We often hear of the ancient Greek theatre as being a theatre of convention rather than a theatre of illusion, and such truisms are true, but not true enough. Their conventions were different from ours, and the plays, in some ways, present reality, though not (often) everyday life
The chorus was a big part of the ancient Greek theater; in verse, the chorus would continue to set the stage for the play and narrate sometimes throughout. The third part was the the acts and scenes. Ancient Greek plays relied on bright colors and costumes. There were two genres, comedy and tragedy. Ancient Greek theater probably began as a religious ceremony for Dionysus, the god of wine, sexuality, agriculture and fertility. The religious ceremonies evolved later into plays.
by Mark Cartwright. Greek tragedy was a popular and influential form of drama performed in theatres across ancient Greece from the late 6th century BCE. The most famous playwrights of the genre were Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides and many of their works were still performed centuries after their initial premiere. Greek tragedy led to Greek comedy and, together, these genres formed the foundation upon which all modern theatre is based. Performed in an open-air theatre (theatron) such as that of Dionysos in Athens and seemingly open to all of the male populace (the presence of women is contested), the plot of a tragedy was almost always inspired by episodes from Greek mythology, which we must remember were often a part of Greek religion.
Greek tragedy as we know it was created in Athens around the time of 532 BC, when Thespis was the earliest recorded actor. Being a winner of the first theatrical contest held at Athens, he was the exarchon, or leader, of the dithyrambs performed in and around Attica, especially at the rural Dionysia. By Thespis' time the dithyramb had evolved far away from its cult roots. After the Great Destruction of Athens by the Persian Empire in 480 BC, the town and acropolis were rebuilt, and theatre became formalized and an even greater part of Athenian culture and civic pride.