| Share | Cite. League of Nations, former international organization, established by the peace treaties that ended World War I. Like its successor, the United Nations, its purpose was the promotion of international peace and security
The League of Nations was a government organization that was created as a result of the Treaty of Versailles, which ended World War One in 1919. The League of Nations was formed by President Woodrow Wilson of the United States, as well as other Allied leaders.
After the devastation of the war, support for such a good idea was great (except in America where isolationism was taking root). The organisation of the League of Nations. The League of Nations was to be based in Geneva, Switzerland. This choice was natural as Switzerland was a neutral country and had not fought in World War One. No one could dispute this choice especially as an international organisation such as the Red Cross was already based in Switzerland. 
After a number of notable successes and some early failures in the 1920s, the League ultimately proved incapable of preventing aggression by the Axis powers in the 1930s. Germany withdrew from the League, as did Japan, Italy, Spain, and others. The onset of the Second World War showed that the League had failed its primary purpose, which was to prevent any future world war. The United States and Russia, for example, increasingly worked with the League. During the second half of the 1920s, France, Britain and Germany were all using the League of Nations as the focus of their diplomatic activity, and each of their foreign secretaries attended League meetings at Geneva during this period.
The League of Nations wasn't actually something that the US joined, but the US representative, Woodrow Wilson, suggested that it be formed. This was suggested at the Treaty of … Versailles, however after World War 1, the US became isolationist and so the people of the US didn't want to be involved in European affairs. The League of Nations hoped to keep world peace by intervening if one initiated violence with another country.
Report Abuse. The purpose of the League of Nations was the same as the purpose of the United Nations. It was to bring the nations of the world together to talk about issues in the hope of preventing another conflict like World War I. It was first proposed by Woodrow Wilson but the United States did not join. The League of Nations was formed after the world war one,to promote peace and stability in the world and prevent the outbreak of another major war.
Best Answer: The League of Nations came into being after the end of World War One. The League of Nation's task was simple-to ensure that war never broke out again. The League of Nations was formed after the world war one,to promote peace and stability in the world and prevent the outbreak of another major war.
To ensure international peace and security.   The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic de … velopment, social progress, human rights and ultimately world peace. The League of Nations was formed by President Woodrow Wilson of the United States, as well as other Allied leaders.