5. Qualitative Research is primarily subjective in approach as it seeks to understand human behavior and reasons that govern such behavior. Researchers have the tendency to become subjectively immersed in the subject matter in this type of research method. The presentation of data in a Qualitative Research is in the form of words (from interviews) and images (videos) or objects (such as artifacts).
The controversy that has surrounded the value of quantitative research methods as opposed to qualitative approaches as a means to increasing the knowledge and understanding of human behaviour in health and illness, has been contested by nurse scholars for several decades. Thus, nursing research often needs to capture the individual's interpretation of an experience and the meaning attributed to that experience in order to interpret and synthesise data that are not always responsive to quantitative research methods (Munhall, 2001; Pullen, 2000).
The resulting data are often considered to be qualitative. However, rating scales are not designed to capture opinions, per se, but rather are designed to capture estimations of magnitude. Rating scales do not produce qualitative data, irrespective of what the end-point labels may be. Data from Likert scales and continuous (e.g. 1-10) rating scales are quantitative. These scales assume equal intervals between points.
The terms 'quantitative' and 'qualitative' refer to kinds of data. The definitions of these terms are uncontroversial and can be found in any standard statistics text book. Witte & Witte (2009), for example, present the distinction concisely, defining quantitative data as follows: Rating scales do not produce qualitative data, irrespective of what the end-point labels may be. Data from Likert scales and continuous (e.g. 1-10) rating scales are quantitative. These scales assume equal intervals between points.
Only measurable data are being gathered and analyzed in quantitative research. Qualitative research focuses on gathering of mainly verbal data rather than measurements. Gathered information is then analyzed in an interpretative manner, subjective, impressionistic or even diagnostic. The presentation of data in a Qualitative Research is in the form of words (from interviews) and images (videos) or objects (such as artifacts).
For example, a designer generating some ideas for a new product might want to study people’s habits and preferences, to make sure that the product is commercially viable. Quantitative research is then used to assess whether the completed design is popular or not. Qualitative research is often regarded as a precursor to quantitative research, in that it is often used to generate possible leads and ideas which can be used to formulate a realistic and testable hypothesis. Qualitative research methods are not as dependent upon sample sizes as quantitative methods; a case study, for example, can generate meaningful results with a small sample group.
People often throw around the terms 'objective' and 'subjective' when talking about the results of a research study. These terms are frequently equated with the statistical terms 'quantitative' and 'qualitative'. Rating scales do not produce qualitative data, irrespective of what the end-point labels may be. Data from Likert scales and continuous (e.g. 1-10) rating scales are quantitative. These scales assume equal intervals between points.
Quantitative. Definitions. a systematic subjective approach used to describe life experiences and give them meaning. a formal, objective, systematic process for obtaining information about the world. A method used to describe, test relationships, and examine cause and effect relationships. Goals. To gain insight; explore the depth, richness, and complexity inherent in the phenomenon.
Qualitative research tries to understand the subject's viewpoint, and quantitative research counts and measures behavior with scales, tools, or interventions. As we see, their approach and methods are different. The research design of these two vary, as well. Both methods also have ways of sampling. Random sampling is preferred in quantitative research. This allows the researcher to pick a representation of a larger group and the results can be generalized to the larger group. In qualitative research, sampling is not random.
It is a very controlled, exact approach to research. Quantitative research methods were originally developed in the natural sciences to study natural phenomena (Myers,1997). This type of research is used in many different fields, such as insurance, medicine, government, education, psychology, and law. Both methods also have ways of sampling. Random sampling is preferred in quantitative research. This allows the researcher to pick a representation of a larger group and the results can be generalized to the larger group. In qualitative research, sampling is not random.