Age of oceanic crust; youngest (red) is along spreading centers. Seafloor spreading is a process that occurs at mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust is formed through volcanic activity and then gradually moves away from the ridge. Seafloor spreading helps explain continental drift in the theory of plate tectonics. The destruction of oceanic crust occurs at subduction zones where oceanic crust is forced under either continental crust or oceanic crust. Today, the Atlantic basin is actively spreading at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Only a small portion of the oceanic crust produced in the Atlantic is subducted.
Plate Tectonics By combining the sea floor spreading theory with continental drift and information on global seismicity, the new theory of Plate Tectonics became a coherent theory to explain crustal movements.Plates are composed of lithosphere, about 100 km thick, that float on the ductile asthenosphere. (d) sea floor spreading, (e) continental drift (be sure the you understand the differences between (d) and (e).2. For each of the following types of plate boundary, describe exactly what is present and what happens at the boundary: (a) divergent boundary, (b) convergent boundary, (c) transform boundary.3.
At the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (and in other areas), material from the upper mantle rises through the faults between oceanic plates to form new crust as the plates move away from each other, a phenomenon first observed as continental drift. The destruction of oceanic crust occurs at subduction zones where oceanic crust is forced under either continental crust or oceanic crust. Today, the Atlantic basin is actively spreading at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Only a small portion of the oceanic crust produced in the Atlantic is subducted.
In the general case, sea floor spreading starts as a rift in a continental land mass, similar to the Red Sea-East Africa Rift System today. The process starts with heating at the base of the continental crust which causes it to become more plastic and less dense. The destruction of oceanic crust occurs at subduction zones where oceanic crust is forced under either continental crust or oceanic crust. Today, the Atlantic basin is actively spreading at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Only a small portion of the oceanic crust produced in the Atlantic is subducted.
Image Credit: Main Image: Sea-floor spreading is the process in which the ocean floor is extended when two plates move apart. Plates are huge slabs into which the crust as well as the upper part of the mantle (the intermediate zones between the Earth’s crust and core) is divided. As a result, the age of the rocks increases as one move away from the rift-zone (place where the earth’s crust is pulled apart). The mid-oceanic ridge is the primary site for sea-floor spreading. Earthquakes and volcanoes are where sea-floor spreading occurs.
He suggested that a process he called sea-floor spreading continually adds new material to the ocean floor. In sea-floor spreading, the sea floor spreads apart along both sides of a mid-ocean ridge as new crust is added. As a result, the ocean floors move like conveyor belts, carrying the continents along with them. Look at Figure 16 to see the process of sea-floor spreading. Harry Hess, an American geologist, was one of the scientists who studied mid-ocean ridges. Hess carefully examined maps of the mid-ocean ridge system. Then he began to think about the ocean floor in relation to the problem of continental drift. Finally, he reached a startling conclusion: Maybe Wegener was right!
sea-floor spreading. n. In the theory of plate tectonics, the process by which new oceanic crust is formed by the convective upwelling of magma at mid-ocean ridges, resulting in the continuous lateral displacement of existing oceanic crust. 1. (Geological Science) a series of processes in which new oceanic lithosphere is created at oceanic ridges, spreads away from the ridges, and returns to the earth's interior along subduction zones. Also called: ocean floor spreading.
Sea-floor spreading occurs where oceanic plates are diverging from one another. Plates are huge slabs into which the crust as well as the upper part of the mantle (the intermediate zones between the Earth’s crust and core) is divided. As the plates move apart, the rocks break and form a crack between the plates. As a result, the age of the rocks increases as one move away from the rift-zone (place where the earth’s crust is pulled apart). The mid-oceanic ridge is the primary site for sea-floor spreading. Earthquakes and volcanoes are where sea-floor spreading occurs.