Fructose is the major carbohydrate present in fruit, and although some dietary fructose is derived from fruit, much fructose consumed in the diet is derived from sucrose (commonly known as ‘sugar’) and from foods containing added sucrose. This is because sucrose consists of 50% fructose and 50% glucose. Sweet foods such as desserts, cakes, chocolate and other confectionery, and sweetened beverages such as carbonated soft drinks, sports drinks and so on, contain large quantities of added fructose. Fruit juice is also high in fructose.
Structural formulae of fructose (left) and glucose (right). High fructose corn syrup (HFCS) (also called glucose-fructose, isoglucose and glucose-fructose syrup) is a sweetener made from corn starch that has been processed by glucose isomerase to convert some of its glucose into fructose. 
Avoid sweeteners that are rich in fructose, especially honey, high-fructose corn syrup and agave syrup. If you want to add a sweet touch to your diet, use lower-fructose alternatives, such as maple syrup, brown sugar, granulated sugar, stevia or artificial sweeteners, to keep your intestines happy. All other vegetables have a very low fructose content. However, if you are sensitive to fructose, it is possible that you also react to other similar short-chain carbohydrates, such as fructans, polyols and galactans, found in other vegetables, such as cabbage, onions, garlic, broccoli and cauliflower.
People who have fructose intolerance should limit high-fructose foods, such as juices, apples, grapes, watermelon, asparagus, peas and zucchini. Some lower fructose foods — such as bananas, blueberries, strawberries, carrots, avocados, green beans and lettuce — may be tolerated in limited quantities with meals. Read product labels carefully and avoid foods containing: 1  Fructose. 2  High-fructose corn syrup. 3  Honey. 4  Agave syrup. 5  Invert sugar. 6  Maple-flavored syrup.
Crystalline fructose is the monosaccharide, dried, ground, and of high purity. High-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) is a mixture of glucose and fructose as monosaccharides. Sucrose is a compound with one molecule of glucose covalently linked to one molecule of fructose. Fructose, or fruit sugar, is a simple ketonic monosaccharide found in many plants, where it is often bonded to glucose to form the disaccharide sucrose. It is one of the three dietary monosaccharides, along with glucose and galactose, that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion.
Fructose is a sugar found naturally in fruits, fruit juices, some vegetables and honey. Fructose is also a basic component in table sugar (sucrose), and high-fructose corn syrup is used to sweeten many processed foods and beverages. Some lower fructose foods — such as bananas, blueberries, strawberries, carrots, avocados, green beans and lettuce — may be tolerated in limited quantities with meals. Read product labels carefully and avoid foods containing: 1  Fructose. 2  High-fructose corn syrup. 3  Honey. 4  Agave syrup. 5  Invert sugar. 6  Maple-flavored syrup.
Fructose is a monosaccharide, or single sugar, that has the same chemical formula as glucose but a different molecular structure. Sometimes called fruit sugar, fructose is found in fruit, some vegetables, honey, and other plants. Fructose and other sugars are carbohydrates, an important source of energy for the body. 
1 Sweets, food and drinks with very high sucrose (table sugar) content and with high fructose corn syrup (HFCS). 2  Honey, maple syrup. 3  Vegetables in larger quantities (fructan content): artichoke, asparagus, beans, broccoli, cabbage, chicory, leek, onion, peanuts, tomato, zuccini. 1 Inulin, a fructan (see Fructose and fructan intolerance), content is high in the following foods generally known to cause bloating and gas: Asparagus, dandelion leaves, garlic, leeks, onion and wheat bran.
Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2013. Foods high in fructose and fructans include many fruits, berries, honey, some vegetables and cereal products. In some countries fructose is commonly used as a sweetener in snacks and soft drinks, e.g. in the form of high fructose corn syrup (HFCS). 1 Inulin, a fructan (see Fructose and fructan intolerance), content is high in the following foods generally known to cause bloating and gas: Asparagus, dandelion leaves, garlic, leeks, onion and wheat bran.