Doctors sometimes prescribe Valium along with other medications to treat convulsions or seizures. Valium belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, which work by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the activity of nerve signals in the brain.
A: Diazepam (Valium) is an anxiolytic agent. Diazepam is classified as a benzodiazepine medication and is a central nervous system depressant. In addition to the anti-anxiety properties of diazepam, it also demonstrates anticonvulsant and skeletal muscle relaxant activity.
Valium is one of the benzodiazepines, as is diazepam and Librium. For people who have anxiety disorders, the formulation of Valium was an apparently wonderful development. The drug is classified as a hypnotic, anticonvulsant, and muscle relaxant. Valium was first introduced onto the market in 1963, a derivative of Librium, and is used today as a treatment for anxiety. Valium has been the most popular tranquilizer for the past 40 years. a â mothera Motherâ S little helpera helperâ was. a miracle drug
Valium Abuse and Addiction. Valium is a benzodiazepine with properties of being a sedative, hypnotic, anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, amnestic and muscle relaxant drug. Valium is generally used to treat short term moderate to severe anxiety or insomnia.
Diazepam is the generic name for Valium, a prescription drug doctors prescribe to treat symptoms of anxiety disorders. Anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , panic disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) .
/di·az·e·pam/ (di-az´ĕ-pam) a benzodiazepine used as an antianxiety agent, sedative, antipanic agent, antitremor agent, skeletal muscle relaxant, anticonvulsant, and in the management of alcohol withdrawal symptoms.
...As with other agents that have anticonvulsant activity, when Valium is used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders, the possibility of an increase in the frequency and/or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage of standard anticonvulsant medication.
Diazepam is a benzodiazepine used predominantly as an anxiolytic agent, but also as an anticonvulsant intravenously for therapy of status epilepticus.