Many mutations have no effect at all. These are called silent mutations. But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the mutation of a single gene. Most inherited genetic diseases are recessive, which means that a person must inherit two copies of the mutated gene to inherit a disorder
Each of these mutations can cause a variety of different diseases and conditions. Read on to learn what these mutations are and what disorders they can cause. slide 1 of 8. The causes of chromosomes mutation occur when there is any change in the arrangement or structure of the chromosomes. These mutations occur most often during meiosis during the stage when crossing over occurs. There are several different mutation types that result in chromosomal structure change. This cause of mutation occurs when a piece of one chromosome is transferred to a non-homologous chromosome. The two chromosomes, that are often reciprocal, swap segments with each other. This genetic mutation is often responsible for chronic myelogenous leukemia.
Such types of mutations are also called as mosaicism. Here are some diseases which are caused by gene mutations:- 1)Cystic Fibrosis:- Cystic fibrosis is a single gene mutation. This disease is related with secretory glands of the body like sweat and mucus. This is a hereditary disease.
A genetic disorder is a disease that is caused by a change, or mutation, in an individual’s DNA sequence. 
1 For example, Translocation Down Syndrome is a subtype of Down Syndrome caused by translocation of a large sequence of a chromosome. 2  Subtraction disorders: The process of translocation can also cause large sequences of DNA to be lost from chromosomes. 3  This creates diseases similar to monosomy conditions. Autosomal Trisomy Chromosome Diseases. The 22 non-sex autosome chromosomes (autosomes) can also exhibit disorders, of which the most common is trisomy (having 3 copies rather than a pair). Because these are disorders of the autosomes and not the sex chromosomes, these disorders can occur with males or females.
Answers. Best Answer: Many diseases can be caused by mutations, such as: -sickle cell anemia-certain cancers-B thallasemia-cystic fibrosis-basically, any disease can be caused by mutations, and the diseases may be apparent later on in life or right at birth. Source(s): 
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
1 Genetic mutation— A permanent change in a gene that can be passed on to children. 2  The rare, early-onset familial form of Alzheimer's disease is associated with mutations in genes on chromosomes 21, 14, and 1. 3  Genetic risk factor— A change in a gene that increases a person's risk of developing a disease. If a person inherits from a parent a genetic mutation that causes a certain disease, then he or she will usually get the disease. Sickle cell anemia, cystic fibrosis, and early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease are examples of inherited genetic disorders. In other diseases, a genetic variant may occur