Aluminium oxide is responsible for the resistance of metallic aluminium to weathering. Metallic aluminium is very reactive with atmospheric oxygen, and a thin passivation layer of aluminium oxide (4 nm thickness) forms on any exposed aluminium surface. This layer protects the metal from further oxidation. Aluminium oxide is a chemical compound of aluminium and oxygen with the chemical formula Al 2 O 3. It is the most commonly occurring of several aluminium oxides, and specifically identified as aluminium(III) oxide.
1 This method of oxidizing aluminum is not the same as anodizing aluminum. 2  Anodizing is a process of artificial oxidation using an acid and electricity to create a strong surface on the metal. 3  Dye can be added to the acid to change the surface color of anodized aluminum. Aluminum has a high strength-to-weight ratio, and its patina is the same color as the metal. Therefore, many industries use aluminum, in place of steel or plastic, for strong, lightweight parts that resist corrosion. However, the aluminum surface does oxidize, and oxidation weakens the metal
Photo &copy Sami Sarkis. Definition: Oxidation is a chemical process by which an ionic chemical reaction occurs at the surface of a metal when in the presence of oxygen. This can happen in air or when metal is exposed to water or acids. 
the reaction in which a metal and oxygen combine to form an oxide. In a more general sense, oxidation of a metal is a reaction in which atoms lose electrons to yield various compounds, such as chlorides and sulfides. With very few exceptions, metals occur naturally in oxidized form and are called ores. Consequently, metallurgical processes involve the reduction of various compounds. The course of the oxidation of a metal is determined by a thermodynamic factor—the change in free energy during the reaction—and by a kinetic factor—the reaction rate—that is largely dependent on both the nature of the oxidation products and the interaction between the products and the metal.
Oxidation means the loss of electrons in metal atoms. The oxidation of a metal occurs when the metal loses one or more electrons, so that the atoms of the metal go from the neutral state and become a positively charge ion. This commonly results in the formation of a metal oxide (in the case of iron, that is known as rust). It occurs in the presence of oxygen. For example,
2 Al(s) + Fe2O3(s) Al2O3(s) + 2 Fe(l). By assigning oxidation numbers, we can pick out the oxidation and reduction halves of the reaction. Aluminum is oxidized to Al 2 O 3 in this reaction, which means that Fe 2 O 3 must be the oxidizing agent. Conversely, Fe 2 O 3 is reduced to iron metal, which means that aluminum must be the reducing agent. Because a reducing agent is always transformed into its conjugate oxidizing agent in an oxidation-reduction reaction, the products of this reaction include a new oxidizing agent (Al 2 O 3) and a new reducing agent (Fe). In the course of this reaction, CuO is reduced to copper metal. Thus, H 2 is the reducing agent in this reaction, and CuO acts as an oxidizing agent. An important feature of oxidation-reduction reactions can be recognized by examining what happens to the copper in this pair of reactions.
Tips for Heavily Oxidized Aluminum. First of all, determine the extent of oxidation on the aluminum surface. If it is determined that the surface is in relatively good shape, i.e. light oxidation, then skip this step and move on to polishing with Flitz.
Save. Aluminum has a high strength-to-weight ratio, and its patina is the same color as the metal. Therefore, many industries use aluminum, in place of steel or plastic, for strong, lightweight parts that resist corrosion. However, the aluminum surface does oxidize, and oxidation weakens the metal
Aluminum being the most abundant metal in the earth’s crust (at 8.2% of the total metals) is never found free in nature. Aluminum is reactive and will react spontaneously with water and/or air to form aluminum oxide. Aluminum oxide, Al2O3, forms a stable passive layer that protects aluminum from corrosion or further oxidation. This layer is about 4 nm thick and will provide corrosion protection as long as this oxide layer is stable. Aluminum is an amphoteric metal and can react with an acid as well as a base. The protective layer of aluminum oxide will deteriorate in environments with high or low pH or even in environments where aggressive ions are present