Ampalaya are easy to recognize. Ampalaya (Momordica charantia), also known as bitter melon, is a common vegetable in many Asian countries. Other names of the plant include bitter cucumber, bitter gourd, African cucumber, alligator pear and balsam pear.
Apply compost to the soil after tilling. Plant seeds in late spring or early summer. Place two or three seeds in a hole about ½ to 1 inch deep in the soil along a fence or under a 6-foot-tall trellis form. The holes should be 15 to 23 inches apart and rows 3 to 5 feet apart. Ampalaya (Momordica charantia), also known as bitter melon, is a common vegetable in many Asian countries. Other names of the plant include bitter cucumber, bitter gourd, African cucumber, alligator pear and balsam pear.
There is a very simple trick to figuring out how deeply to plant seeds, whether you're sowing them in flats or pots indoors or out in your garden. Here it is: Seeds should be planted at a depth of three times the thickness of the seed. So, for example, if you've got a morning glory seed that's about 1/4 of an inch thick, it should be planted around 3/4 of an inch deep. Large bean seeds that can be 1/2 inch thick or more may need to be planted 1 and 1/2 to two inches deep. For very tiny seeds, place them on the surface of the soil and barely cover with soil or vermiculite. 
HOW TO PLANT (BITTER MELON) AMPALAYA. Ampalaya is one of the vegetables you need to plant in your farm or garden. Aside from being a good source of vitamins and minerals, it is also a good source of income because it has a ready market. Almost all the parts of this plant are useful. Its fruits and leaves--and sometimes its stalks--can be sold. Apply just enough water to keep the soil moist--not too wet but not too dry. Do not over water your ampalaya plants since, as stated earlier, they cannot bear too much moisture. Proper watering coupled with adequate fertilization will increase plant vigor.
Step 4. Dig 1 1/2-foot-deep holes where the ampalaya will be planted right after the last expected hard frost. Space the holes 4 to 5 feet apart. Pour 1/4 cup of bone meal into the hole. Fill the hole back in and construct a 6-inch-high, 2-foot-wide mound above the hole. Test the soil pH. Ampalaya vines grow best in soil with a pH between 6 and 6.8. Mix iron sulfate or lime into the soil to raise or lower the pH, if necessary.
5. Plant seeds in late spring or early summer. Place two or three seeds in a hole about ½ to 1 inch deep in the soil along a fence or under a 6-foot-tall trellis form. The holes should be 15 to 23 inches apart and rows 3 to 5 feet apart. You can also start seeds in small plastic pots in a commercial soil mix. Ampalaya (Momordica charantia), also known as bitter melon, is a common vegetable in many Asian countries. Other names of the plant include bitter cucumber, bitter gourd, African cucumber, alligator pear and balsam pear.
Prepare the land thoroughly before planting ampalaya. Plow and PREPARATION harrow the field three times and then furrow it with a distance of two meters between rows. If you intend to plant ampalaya in your garden, be sure you prepare the plot thoroughly. Apply just enough water to keep the soil moist--not too wet but not too dry. Do not over water your ampalaya plants since, as stated earlier, they cannot bear too much moisture. Proper watering coupled with adequate fertilization will increase plant vigor.
3. Plant seeds in May, or as soon in early summer as the soil typically warms in your area. Set the seeds at a depth of 1/2 inch, at a spacing of 18 to 24 inches. Establish the row about 18 inches from the fence or trellis on which the vines will grow. For every 100 square feet of row, add about one-tenth of a pound of both nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers. Plant seeds in May, or as soon in early summer as the soil typically warms in your area. Set the seeds at a depth of 1/2 inch, at a spacing of 18 to 24 inches.
If your area doesn't have enough water supply and ampalaya seeds are rather limited, it is much better to sow the seeds first in a seed box or seedbed. Press the seeds into sterilized soil and then water the seed. box or seedbed every day until transplanting time. Apply just enough water to keep the soil moist--not too wet but not too dry. Do not over water your ampalaya plants since, as stated earlier, they cannot bear too much moisture. Proper watering coupled with adequate fertilization will increase plant vigor.