Xylitol is safe in the amounts found in foods. It seems safe as a medicine for most adults in amounts up to about 50 grams per day. Avoid higher doses. There is some concern that extremely high doses for long periods of time (more than three years) can cause tumors. Xylitol can cause diarrhea and intestinal gas.
Likely Effective for: 1  Preventing dental caries (tooth decay). 2  Use of xylitol-containing products such as foods, chewing gum, candies, and toothpaste that provide 1-20 grams of xylitol per day can significantly reduce the rate of cavity formation in both adults and children.
Even small amounts of xylitol can cause hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), seizures, liver failure or even death in dogs. If your pet is showing these symptoms do not wait for symptoms to get worse. It's better to contact your local VCA Veterinarian. We offer a free first exam* for new clients.
It is much sweeter than sorbitol, for instance. Assessed in terms of calories, xylitol’s sweetening power is the same as that of sucrose (table sugar), but with 40% fewer calories. Most bacteria and yeast in the mouth are unable to make use of xylitol.
However, xylitol is extremely toxic to dogs. Even small amounts of xylitol can cause hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), seizures, liver failure or even death in dogs. If your pet is showing these symptoms do not wait for symptoms to get worse. It's better to contact your local VCA Veterinarian. We offer a free first exam* for new clients.
Chemically, it is a sugar alcohol, and in nature it is found in berries, plums, corn, oats, mushrooms, lettuce, trees, and some other hardwood trees and fruits. Commercially, most xylitol is extracted from corn fiber, birch trees, hardwood trees and other vegetable material.
Xylitol is widely used as a sugar substitute and in sugar-free chewing gums, mints, and other candies. However, sorbitol is the most commonly used sweetener in sugarless gums because it is less expensive than xylitol and easier to make into commercial products.
Xyla is a brand name for xylitol, a sugar alcohol. Xyla is made by Xylitol USA based in Aurora, CO. Xylitol is a naturally occurring alcohol found in most plant materials. Although, xylitol can be extracted from either corn or hardwood, Xylitol USA claims to use only North American hardwood for it's product.