Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is caused by a problem in the inner ear. Tiny calcium stones inside your inner ear canals help you keep your balance.
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo, the symptom that describes the feeling of intense spinning of the head. BPPV describes the situation where the spinning sensation lasts only a few minutes and often stops by itself.
Definition. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo — the sudden sensation that you're spinning or that the inside of your head is spinning. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo causes brief episodes of mild to intense dizziness. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo is usually triggered by specific changes in the position of your head. This might occur when you tip your head up or down, when you lie down, or when you turn over or sit up in bed.
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo — the sudden sensation that you're spinning or that the inside of your head is spinning. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo causes brief episodes of mild to intense dizziness. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo is usually triggered by specific changes in the position of your head. This might occur when you tip your head up or down, when you lie down, or when you turn over or sit up in bed.
BPPV is not a sign of a serious health problem. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is caused by a problem in the inner ear. Tiny calcium stones inside your inner ear canals help you keep your balance. Normally, when you move a certain way, such as when you stand up or turn your head, these stones move around.
Benign positional vertigo is also called benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). It is caused by a problem in the inner ear. The inner ear has fluid-filled tubes called semicircular canals. When you move, the fluid moves inside these tubes.
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) causes short episodes of intense dizziness (vertigo) when you move your head in certain directions. It it thought to be caused by tiny solid fragments (otoconia) in the inner ear labyrinth.
Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (or BPPV) is the most common cause of vertigo, a false sensation of spinning. 1. 1  Benign – it is not life-threatening. 2  Paroxysmal – it comes in sudden, brief spells. 3  Positional – it gets triggered by certain head positions or movements.