The main function of nucleolus is to produce and assemble subunits which form the ribosome. Ribosome is the site for protein synthesis. Nucleolus plays an indirect but crucial role in protein synthesis by assembling the ribosome subunits. The nucleolus is one of the most important organelles of eukaryotic cells. Its main function is producing and assembling subunits which form ribosomes. Different functions performed by the nucleolus are listed in the article.
Structure & Function. The nucleolus is a very dense structure inside the nucleolus. Depending on what the cell is or how big it is, the cell may have more than one nucleolus because of how many ribosomes it needs. It doesn't have a membrane so DNA inside the nucleus can easily be transferred to the nucleolus to transcript it to rRNA. 
The nucleolus is contained within the cell nucleus. The nucleolus (/nuːˈkliːɵləs/ ; plural nucleoli /nuːˈkliːɵlaɪ/) is the largest structure in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, where it primarily serves as the site of ribosome synthesis and assembly. Until 1964 little was known about the function of the nucleolus, even though it could be easily seen through microscopy and was recognized as part of the nucleus.
1 The nucleolus, whose primary function is to assemble ribosomes, is the largest structure in the cell nucleus. 2  The nucleolus organiser regions of chromosomes, which harbour the genes for pre‐rRNA, are the foundation for the nucleolus. Key Concepts. 1 
The nucleolus functions to produce ribosomes.   It controls what goes on in the cell. It also does cellular reproduction. ribosomes to store immature chromosomes and as a … control center of the cell. It's where ribosomes are made. it is often refered to as the brain of the cell as it controlls what goes on. it is also used for cellular reproduction,the nucleolus is that they disappear during cell reproduction
The nucleolus is the nuclear subdomain that assembles ribosomal subunits in eukaryotic cells. The nucleolar organiser regions of chromosomes, which contain the genes for pre‐ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA), serve as the foundation for nucleolar structure. Key Concepts. 1  The nucleolus, whose primary function is to assemble ribosomes, is the largest structure in the cell nucleus. 2  The nucleolus organiser regions of chromosomes, which harbour the genes for pre‐rRNA, are the foundation for the nucleolus.
The nucleolus functions to produce ribosomes. It controls what goes on in the cell. It also does cellular reproduction. ribosomes. to store immature chromosomes and as a control center of the cell. It's where ribosomes are made. it is often refered to as the brain of the cell as it controlls what goes on. A nucleolus is made up of nucleic acids and proteins. It is located within the nucleus. The RNA (ribosomal neucleic acid) defines the function of the cell, and is created with … in the nucleolus.
It is not surrounded by a membrane but sits in the nucleus. The nucleolus makes ribosomal subunits from proteins and ribosomal RNA, also known as rRNA. It then sends the subunits out to the rest of the cell where they combine into complete ribosomes. Ribosomes make proteins; therefore, the nucleolus plays a vital role in making proteins in the cell. Function of the Nucleolus. Ribosomes are made of two subunits, a large and a small. Each subunit is manufactured separately in the nucleolus. The proteins needed to make them enter the nucleus through pores in the nuclear membrane. The rRNA is made in the nucleolus itself.