This new indoor theatre, as well as the company’s appearances at court, may have influenced Shakespeare’s last plays. In 1613, Shakespeare bought a gatehouse in Blackfriars. This was the first property he had acquired in London, and was probably an investment since he seems not to have lived there. Tell me more: By 1592, aged 28, Shakespeare was in London and already established as both an actor and a dramatist. He is first mentioned as a man of the theatre by the poet and dramatist Robert Greene, in Greenes, Groats-Worth of Witte published that year. Greene referred to him as an 'upstart crow' who 'is in his own conceit the only Shake-scene in a country'. There is little evidence for Shakespeare's London career
In Shakespeare's time, a stage wasn't just one type of space; plays had to be versatile. The same play might be produced in an outdoor playhouse, an indoor theater, a royal palace—or, for a company on tour, the courtyard of an inn. Playhouses and the Globe. In 1576, when Shakespeare was still a 12-year-old in Stratford, James Burbage built the Theatre just outside London. The Theatre was among the first playhouses in England since Roman times.
William Shakespeare was a professional actor and playwright from Stratford-Upon-Avon. He worked in London, writing on average three plays a year for the acting company the Lord Chamberlain’s-later King’s-Men, whilst sustaining his family in Stratford. Whatever we think about him as a writer, he was principally a man of the theatre: he worked collaboratively and knew his playhouses intimately.
Shakespeare's acting company was the Lord … Chamberlain's Men (later called the King's Men after they changed patrons). Shakespeare and other members of the company owned the Globe Theatre. They did not join it. Shakespeare was one of the founding members of the Lord Chamberlain's Men in 1594. There appears to have been a restructuring after the theaters were closed due to plague in 1592 and 1593. Shakespeare had a share in the theatre company The Lord  Chamberlain's Men or The King's Men, usually reckoned at  one-twelfth to one-fourteenth. He also had a share in the … Globe  Theatre, which started at one-eighth but may have become smaller.  His share in the Blackfriars Theatre was the same
The Globe Theater, in which most of Shakespeare's plays were performed, was not so different from the theaters of today. It had a stage agains the back wall of the theater, … jutting out a few meters into the audience, with seats in the balconies around the other walls. The Theatre, Newington Butts, The Curtain (referred to as the Wooden O in the Prologue to Shakespeare's Henry V), The Globe, The Blackfriars. He may have worked at others be … fore joining the Lord Chamberlain's Men including the Rose.
William Shakespeare made an investment in the theater by buying  part of the Globe theater. He also invested in theaters by acting  and writing for them. The Theatre, Newington Butts, The Curtain (referred to as the Wooden O in the Prologue to Shakespeare's Henry V), The Globe, The Blackfriars. He may have worked at others be … fore joining the Lord Chamberlain's Men including the Rose.
William Shakespeare was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, baptized on 26 April 1564, according to the parish register of the Holy Trinity Church. His birthday is popularly thought to be April 23rd, but as this is both the date of his death 54 years later and St. George's Day, the coincidence may be too far-fetched. The name of Shakespeare is an old one in Warwickshire, dating back as far as 1248, when William Sakspere was executed for thieving.
The theatre most often associated with William Shakespeare is the The Globe Theatre, which opened in 1599 in Southwark, London. At that time Shakespeare had already establishe … d himself as an actor and playwright. The Theatre, Newington Butts, The Curtain (referred to as the Wooden O in the Prologue to Shakespeare's Henry V), The Globe, The Blackfriars. He may have worked at others be … fore joining the Lord Chamberlain's Men including the Rose.