A prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test measures the amount of prostate-specific antigen in the blood. PSA is released into a man's blood by his prostate gland. Healthy men have low amounts of PSA in the blood. The amount of PSA in the blood normally increases as a man's prostate enlarges with age. Guide. 
Prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, is a protein produced by cells of the prostate gland. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The blood level of PSA is often elevated in men with prostate cancer, and the PSA test was originally approved by the FDA in 1986 to monitor the progression of prostate cancer in men who had already been diagnosed with the disease. 
PSA, which stands for Prostate-Specific Aantigen, is a protein produced by the prostate gland. It is present in the blood of all men at low levels, but PSA levels often rise, sometimes dramatically, in the presence of prostate cancer. (Keith Brofsky/Photodisc/Getty Images). For men under 50, healthy PSA levels will usually range between .3 and 2.5 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL), with an average of 1.2. In the presence of cancer, PSA levels can rise to up to 160 ng/mL. Jupiterimages/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Men From 50 to 60.
Between these two groups is the diagnostic gray zone of the PSA value, 4.0 to 10.0 ng/mL, for which a positive biopsy of cancer is problematic. In this range, nearly 25% of men will have prostate cancer, and 75% will have benign prostatic enlargement. First, age-specific reference ranges could improve the sensitivity of PSA by detecting curable, organ-confined tumors in younger men when the threshold of 4.0 ng/mL is lowered. Second, age-specific reference ranges could improve the specificity of the PSA test by raising the PSA threshold for normal among older men.
Just as important as the PSA number is the trend of that number (whether it is going up, how quickly, and over what period of time). It is important to understand that the PSA test is not perfect. Most men with elevated PSA levels have noncancerous prostate enlargement, which is a normal part of aging. Conversely, low levels of PSA in the bloodstream do not rule out the possibility of prostate cancer. However, most cases of early prostate cancer are found by a PSA blood test. 
The Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) test uses a blood sample to monitor the level of PSA being produced by the prostate. It is important to understand that the PSA test is not a prostate cancer test. 
Men Under 50. For men under 50, healthy PSA levels will usually range between .3 and 2.5 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL), with an average of 1.2. In the presence of cancer, PSA levels can rise to up to 160 ng/mL. Jupiterimages/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Men From 50 to 60.
Normal PSA Scores. 15% of men with a PSA level less than 4 ng/ml go on to develop prostate cancer. 31% of men with PSA levels between 4 - 10 ng/ml have shown to develop prostate cancer. 50% - 65% of men with psa scores over 10 ng/ml develop prostate cancer. An important part of the your results is finding both the; 1
1 Total PSA levels between 4.0 ng/ml and 10.0 ng/ml may indicate prostate cancer (about a 25% chance, according to the ACS), benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) , or inflammation of the prostate. 2  These conditions are more common in the elderly, as is a general increase in PSA levels. 
Interpretation Provides information to assist in interpretation of the test results. The total PSA range of 4.0 to 10.0 ng/mL has been described as a diagnostic gray zone, in which the free:total PSA ratio helps to determine the relative risk of prostate cancer (see table below). Therefore, some urologists recommend using the free:total ratio to help select which men should undergo biopsy. 