Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Chlorophyll is important to plants because it is the substance that the chloroplast organelles in the cells that carry out photosynthesis-needed by plants as it converts water + carbon dioxide (molecules split by UV light) to glucose (food store for plants) and oxygen. Source(s): 
Plants consist of chlorophyll molecule which is primarily responsible for them to appear green. Plants are called as autotrophs which mean that they can prepare their own food material. Plants survive by absorbing sunlight and converting carbon-di-oxide and water into glucose and oxygen. Hence this process of glucose synthesis is called as photosynthesis. The glucose that is synthesized through the photosynthetic process helps in the growth of the plant. Chlorophyll is an important molecule in the plants which act as photoreceptor. It effectively absorbs the sunlight and transfers it to the electron transporting molecules and in turn reduces the ADP and NADP molecules into energy molecules. Chlorophyll consists of chlorophyll-a and chlorophyll-b. This molecule exists in the plant along with proteins. Chlorophyll exists as photosystem-I and photosystem-II based on the wavelength of light that each of them is able to absorb. The wavelengths that are absorbed by these photosystems are 700nm and 680nm
The importance of chlorophyll for photosynthesis is that it captures light energy from the sun to produce glucose via a chemical reaction. Chlorophyll specifically absorbs light from the red and blue parts of the light spectrum, and reflects green light. This is the reason that plants appear green to us. 
Chlorophyll concentration is often used as an indicator of the amount of algae (algal biomass) in aquatic ecosystems. The amount of algae is an indicator of the trophic state of a water body and high chlorophyll concentration is an indicator of eutrophication. 
The definition for chlorophyll is the pigment in green plants that absorbs solar energy. Now chlorophyll a is important because chlorophyll is the molecule found in all plant cells and therefore its concentration is what is reported during chlorophyll analysis. Hopefully that helps you a little
There are several kinds of chlorophyll, the most important being chlorophyll a. This is the molecule which makes photosynthesis possible, by passing its energized electrons on to molecules which will manufacture sugars. All plants, algae, and cyanobacteria which photosynthesize contain chlorophyll a. 
These molecules are the most important pigments for absorbing the light energy used in photosynth … esis. A chlorophyll molecule has a hydrophobic tail that embeds the molecule into the thylakoid membrane. cholorophyll is a green pigment in the chloroplasts in a plant cell. It enables photosynthesis to take place. Photosynthesis is the process that converts carbon dioxide and wa … ter using the suns energy into oxygen and glucose. This glucose is needed to keep the plant alive and give it energy to grow and respire.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Chlorophyll molecules embedded in the thylakoid membrane absorb light energy. These molecules are the most important pigments for absorbing the light energy used in photosynthesis. A chlorophyll molecule has a hydrophobic tail that embeds the molecule into the thylakoid membrane. The head of a chlorophyll molecule is a ring called a porphyrin. 
Best Answer: Chlorophyll makes it possible for plants to convert carbon dioxide and water, in the presence of sunlight, into oxygen and glucose. During this process of photosynthesis, chlorophyll produces energy, in the form of sugary carbohydrates, which will power all of the plant's essential growth and development. Now chlorophyll a is important because chlorophyll is the molecule found in all plant cells and therefore its concentration is what is reported during chlorophyll analysis.