Swollen joints refers to the enlargement of the joints, usually as a result of an inflammatory process or injury to the joint or to surrounding structures. Joint swelling may be accompanied by other symptoms, including stiffness, pain, redness, warmth, and apparent loss of range of motion of the joint. Depending upon the exact cause, swollen joints may occur singly, or multiple joints in the body may be involved at one time.
1 Swollen fingers and toes. 2  Psoriatic arthritis can cause a painful, sausage-like swelling of your fingers and toes. 3  You may also develop swelling and deformities in your hands and feet before having significant joint symptoms. 4  Foot pain. However, psoriatic arthritis is more likely to also cause: 1  Swollen fingers and toes. 2  Psoriatic arthritis can cause a painful, sausage-like swelling of your fingers and toes.
Finger swelling: A swelling located on the finger or fingers. See detailed information below for a list of 24 causes of Finger swelling, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
A swollen finger is a sign of fluid buildup or inflammation of the tissues or joints of the finger. Finger swelling can result from serious infections, inflammation, trauma, and other abnormal processes. In general, swollen fingers can be caused by overall fluid retention, such as during premenstrual syndrome or pregnancy. Find an Orthopedic Specialist Near You. Because a swollen finger can be a sign of a serious infection or inflammation, you should talk with your medical professional about your symptoms. If you experience finger swelling with pain, redness, or warmth, seek prompt medical care. Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care
Finger pain can be caused by disease or injury affecting any of the structures in the finger, including the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, blood vessels, or connective tissues. Joint pain is a feature of joint inflammation (arthritis) that may occur in the joints of the finger bones. This can sometimes be accompanied by redness, swelling, or warmth of the joints. Both osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) commonly affect joints of the fingers. Trauma or injury to the finger, such as bruises, dislocations, and fractures of bone are all common causes of finger pain. Tumors of the structures in the finger are a very rare cause of finger pain
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) can affect any joint in your body, including those in your hands and fingers. You may have: 1  Hand pain, finger pain, swelling, and stiffness. 2  Hand joints and finger joints that are warm and tender to the touch. 3  The same joints are affected on both sides of your body (both wrists, for instance). 4  Misshapen finger joint
1 Hand pain, finger pain, swelling, and stiffness. 2  Hand joints and finger joints that are warm and tender to the touch. 3  The same joints are affected on both sides of your body (both wrists, for instance). 4  Misshapen finger joints. 5  Carpal tunnel symptoms such as numbness and tingling of the hands. You may have: 1  Hand pain, finger pain, swelling, and stiffness. 2  Hand joints and finger joints that are warm and tender to the touch. 3  The same joints are affected on both sides of your body (both wrists, for instance). 4  Misshapen finger joint