Use caution. The following answers are just opinions. In truth, it is not possible to count the words of any language, because there is no universal definition of what a word … is. Most languages have between 40,000 and 160,000 words. Answer: There are about 150,000 words in the Russian language. Many people think there are more but this is due to conjugation of verbs and declension of nouns. These are not different words but merely grammatical changes, not new words. There are about 1,000,000 words in the English language.
A Germanic European language spoken in most areas historically part of the British empire. It was first spoken by Germanic tribes in Southern Scandinavia and since then has be … en influenced by Danish, Anglo-Norman, Old French, Modern French, Latin, Greek, and lately other languages. The English language was first spoken by the English people and after a while Australians started to speak English as well as the USA and many other countries speak English. E … nglish is the medium of communication with one another. It is the 3rd most common spoken language in the world.
Avestan is a language that forms part of the Iranian group. Old Avestan (sometimes called Gathic Avestan) is the oldest preserved language of the Iranian sub-branch, the “sister” of Sanskrit, which is the language used in the early Zoroastrian religious texts. Only two Baltic languages survive today: Latvian and Lithuanian. A large number of Slavic languages survive today, such as Bulgarian, Czech, Croatian, Polish, Serbian, Slovak, Russian, and many others. Albanian. Albanian is the last branch of Indo-European languages to appear in written form.
Russian is a Slavic language of the Indo-European family. It is a lineal descendant of the language used in Kievan Rus' . From the point of view of the spoken language, its closest relatives are Ukrainian, Belarusian, and Rusyn, the other three languages in the East Slavic group. 30% of the population was fluent in Russian in 2006, and 2% used it as the main language with family, friends or at work. Russian is spoken by 1.4% of the population according to a 2009 estimate from the World Factbook.
The most widely used languages in India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh come from the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European language family. Which language family transcends (in importance) the number of speakers because its languages were used to write the holiest books of three major world religions\: the Bible (New and Old Testaments), and the Quran?
Examples: English, Spanish, French, German, Russian. Indeed, more than half the world's population speak one or more of these languages either as a mother tongue or as a business language. 1  Languages that are essential in multinational contexts or with large numbers of speakers. Portuguese and Spanish have been separate for over 1000 years. The most widely spoken of these languages is Spanish. Apart from Spain, it is spoken in most of Latin America (apart from Portuguese speaking Brazil, and a few small countries like Belize and Guyana).
It is clear that the word for ‘water’ looks very similar within each group, but not quite as similar across groups. Languages in the first group belong to the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family. Languages in the second group belong to the Slavic branch. 
Three of the four (mainland) Scandinavian languages belong to this branch: (Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish). Swedish has tones, unusual in European languages. The fourth Scandinavian language, Finnish, belongs to a different family. Portuguese and Spanish have been separate for over 1000 years. The most widely spoken of these languages is Spanish. Apart from Spain, it is spoken in most of Latin America (apart from Portuguese speaking Brazil, and a few small countries like Belize and Guyana).
The Slavic languages (also called Slavonic languages), a group of closely related languages of the Slavic peoples and a subgroup of Indo-European languages, have speakers in most of Eastern Europe, much of the Balkans, parts of Central Europe, and the northern part of Asia. Speakers of languages within the same branch will in most cases be able to understand each other at least partially, but they are generally unable to across branches (for which it would be comparable to a native English speaker trying to understand any other Germanic language).
It is also the largest native language in Europe, with 144 million native speakers in Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. Russian is the eighth most spoken language in the world by number of native speakers and the seventh by total number of speakers. The language is one of the six official languages of the United Nations. 30% of the population was fluent in Russian in 2006, and 2% used it as the main language with family, friends or at work. Russian is spoken by 1.4% of the population according to a 2009 estimate from the World Factbook.