As of the Canada 2011 Census, the population is 7,521. The area of the town is 7.91 square kilometres. Located on the eastern shore of Lake Huron at the mouth of the Maitland River, Goderich is notable for its sunsets. Queen Elizabeth II once commented that Goderich was the prettiest town in Canada although no reigning monarch has ever visited Goderich. The salt deposits at Goderich are from an ancient sea bed of Silurian age, part of the Salina Formation. The halite rock salt is also found in Windsor, Ontario, both located on the eastern periphery of the Michigan Basin, on the southeastern shores of Lake Huron.
Maps. The Town of Goderich is located in Huron County on the eastern shore of Lake Huron, 100 km/60 miles north of London Ontario and 230 km/140 miles west of Toronto Ontario. Driving directions to Canada's Prettiest Town of Goderich. Goderich is easily accessible by land, water or air. By Land: See maps (above). 
Goderich, Ontario. Goderich is located along the shores of Lake Huron, and has been referred to as “ Canada’s Prettiest Town”. Goderich is steeped in historical charm and natural splendor, its location perched on a bluff looking west over the lake. The town was just named by Chatelaine magazine as “One of the Ten Best Places to Live in Canada”. Goderich has a nautical past. The Goderich harbour is the only sea depth harbour on the east side of Lake Huron. In the towns’ infancy, this harbour was crucial for transporting early settlers to the area.
Salt in Canada. Canada has three known major salt formations, with large deposits located in Western Canada, Ontario and the Atlantic Provinces. In Western Canada, the salt beds extend from the Northwest Territories down through Alberta, Saskatchewan, and into Manitoba. Today, Compass Minerals has operations throughout North America. In Canada, the Goderich salt mine annually produces 7,250,000 tons of salt. Evaporation plants in Goderich, Ontario; Unity, Saskatchewan; and Amherst, Nova Scotia; produce a total of more than 470,000 tons per year.
In Ontario, salt is found along the shores of Lake Huron and Lake Erie, underlying part of Michigan, part of Ohio, and Lakes Huron and Erie. The world’s largest salt mine, located in Goderich, Ont., and owned by Sifto Canada, mines salt from this deposit. In the Atlantic Provinces large, thick deposits are located beneath New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, part of Newfoundland and the Gulf of Saint Lawrence. Today, Compass Minerals has operations throughout North America. In Canada, the Goderich salt mine annually produces 7,250,000 tons of salt. Evaporation plants in Goderich, Ontario; Unity, Saskatchewan; and Amherst, Nova Scotia; produce a total of more than 470,000 tons per year.
Goderich is also located in the lake shadow of Lake Huron, which is much less likely to be hit by tornadoes than other parts of Southwestern Ontario where lake convergence fronts collide. By 11:00am that morning, showers and thunderstorms began to develop over southwestern Ontario. The tornado then moved into the neighbourhood immediately northwest of Goderich's downtown core. Hardest hit was the Waterloo Street and St. Georges Crescent area, which was closest to the immediate edge of the bluff.
Goderich (pronounced either God-rich or God-er-ich) is a town in the Canadian province of Ontario and is the county seat of Huron County. The town was founded by William Tiger Dunlop in 1827. The salt deposits at Goderich are from an ancient sea bed of Silurian age, part of the Salina Formation. The halite rock salt is also found in Windsor, Ontario, both located on the eastern periphery of the Michigan Basin, on the southeastern shores of Lake Huron.
Display specific location Select to locate on the map. The above topographic map of Goderich and the surrounding area has been derived from satellite mapping. The topographic data has been illuminated by a light source corresponding to the position of the sun at mid afternoon in summer. Major roads, railways rivers and other water features are derived from global GIS data.