News Archive. On March 17th, 2015, Actavis (NYSE:ACT) completed the acquisition of Allergan, creating a $23 billion diversified global pharmaceutical company and a leader in a new industry model-Growth Pharma. Actavis Malta, has highly trained and dedicated employees, a favourable patent environment and state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, making Malta a key contributor to the Actavis group of companies.
Actavis Global Operations also includes Anda, Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. generic pharmaceutical product distributor in the United States. On June 15, 2015, Actavis changed its name to Allergan, but the company's U.S. and Canadian generics business will continue to operate under the Actavis name. Throughout its history, Actavis has expanded both organically and as the result of strategic acquisitions that brought broader product lines, enhanced drug delivery technologies, and ultimately branded pharmaceutical products to the company.
Actavis Malta. On March 17th, 2015, Actavis (NYSE:ACT) completed the acquisition of Allergan, creating a $23 billion diversified global pharmaceutical company and a leader in a new industry model-Growth Pharma. Actavis Malta, has highly trained and dedicated employees, a favourable patent environment and state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, making Malta a key contributor to the Actavis group of companies.
United States-Allergan. On March 17, 2015, Actavis (NYSE:ACT) completed the acquisition of Allergan, creating a $23 billion diversified global pharmaceutical company and a leader in a new industry model-Growth Pharma. Driving continued innovation and growth is the combined company’s strong commitment to R&D, with an investment of ~$1.7 billion in 2015 alone, focused on strategic development of innovative and durable value-enhancing products within brands, generics, biologics and OTC portfolios.
Business description (2). Actavis is located at 200 Elmora Ave, Elizabeth, NJ. This business specializes in Pharmacies. Actavis is located at 200 Elmora Ave # 2, Elizabeth, NJ. This business specializes in Manufacturing & Industrial Supplies. 
The Actavis + Allergan Generics portfolio features more than 1,000 generics, branded generics, established brands and OTC products. The combined company is the third largest generic manufacturer in the U.S. and holds a top 5 leadership position in nearly 20 International markets. Actavis Malta, has highly trained and dedicated employees, a favourable patent environment and state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, making Malta a key contributor to the Actavis group of companies.
Gurnee-Pharmaceutical Preparation Companies. Be the first to review. Phone Number: (847) 855-0812. Address: 605 Tri State Pkwy. Gurnee, Illinois 60031-5277. Website: actavis.com. Actavis Pharma Inc. is an organization in the pharmaceutical preparation companies industry located in Gurnee, IL. With 157 branches/subsidiaries/headquarters, Actavis Pharma Inc. is a member of a large, complex corporate structure. Find information on a subset of their related companies below.
Actavis also operates the world's third-largest generics business. The company is ranked in the top 3 in 12 global markets, the top 5 in 16 global markets, and in the top 10 in 33 global markets. Throughout its history, Actavis has expanded both organically and as the result of strategic acquisitions that brought broader product lines, enhanced drug delivery technologies, and ultimately branded pharmaceutical products to the company.
Actavis also develops and out-licenses generic pharmaceutical products outside the U.S. through its Medis third-party business, the world's largest generic pharmaceutical out-licensing business. Medis has more than 300 customers globally, and offers a broad portfolio of more than 200 products. Throughout its history, Actavis has expanded both organically and as the result of strategic acquisitions that brought broader product lines, enhanced drug delivery technologies, and ultimately branded pharmaceutical products to the company.
Actavis has a commercial presence across approximately 100 countries. The company has global headquarters in Dublin, Ireland and administrative headquarters in Parsippany-Troy Hills, New Jersey, United States. Throughout its history, Actavis has expanded both organically and as the result of strategic acquisitions that brought broader product lines, enhanced drug delivery technologies, and ultimately branded pharmaceutical products to the company.