Skylanders: SuperChargers is a role-playing platform video game in developed by Vicarious Visions (the first being Skylanders: Swap Force) and published by Activision. It was released on September 20, 2015 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii U, and is set to be released on October 20, 2015 for iOS. The 117 characters introduced in the series since Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure will still be playable in SuperChargers, but the game will only include 20 new figurines, due to the inclusion of vehicles.
With each game's release, a new set of Skylanders become available for purchase. This time around, Skylanders SuperChargers feature new Vehicles for land, air, and sea, and new SuperChargers that, when paired with the right vehical, can supercharge it, altering its appearance and improving its stats. Compatibility. Skylanders Superchargers is compatible with all Skylanders toys from the previous games. However, the new Skylander characters will not be compatible with the previous Skylander games unless it's a new version of a returning character.
As solid as the platforming is, it’s the vehicles where SuperChargers shines. It’s been a bit confusing to know exactly what kind of game Skylanders is — racing or platforming — a problem magnified by the fact that there the Wii and 3DS versions are actually standalone racing games. 
Skylanders: SuperChargers Racing was released as a standalone title for Wii and the Nintendo 3DS on the same date, and it features only the racing portion developed by Beenox. The game is the fifth installment of the Skylanders series. It introduces vehicles for the first time in the series. The 117 characters introduced in the series since Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure will still be playable in SuperChargers, but the game will only include 20 new figurines, due to the inclusion of vehicles.
On February 5, 2015, Activision announced that a fifth Skylanders game was in development. It is currently scheduled to be released in the fall. It was later listed on Amazon as 'Skylanders: Superchargers'. On June 3, 2015 Activision announced Skylanders: SuperChargers release date was on September 20, 2015. Skylanders: Trap Team, the fourth game of the series, was officially announced on April 23, 2014, on the Skylanders Game Facebook page with a new official trailer, and it was released on October 5, 2014.
1 If the Skylander is at a higher level than a previous game's level cap, their level will be shown as the max level. 2  Skylanders Spyro's Adventure's level cap is 10, Giants' level cap is 15, and Swap Force, Trap Team and Superchargers's level caps are 20. Compatibility. Skylanders Superchargers is compatible with all Skylanders toys from the previous games. However, the new Skylander characters will not be compatible with the previous Skylander games unless it's a new version of a returning character.
Skylanders: Giants. Molekin Mountain is one of the levels in Skylanders: Giants. The Skylanders go to the mountain in search for The Oracle only to discover that the Molekin village residing there has been overrun by 'creeps' lead by a Cyclops monach, Pipsqueak. 1 In Master Eon's guide to Skylanders: Giants, it is mistakenly referred to as Molekin Manor in the descriptions of the Shadow Duke and Slobbering Mutticus. 2  Although being a boss, Pipsqueak is defeated in one hit.
The Cloudbreather's Crag is a location within the Cloudscraper Mountains in Skylanders: SuperChargers. It is home to the Cloudbreather Dragon as well other inhabitants. 
Find the Skylanders game that's right for you. The Skylanders SuperChargers Starter Pack and Skylanders Superchargers Dark Edition Starter Pack are available for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, Wii U, Xbox 360, Nintendo 3DS and iPad®. Drive Evil Crazy! Order your Skylanders games now. 
Similar to its predecessors, Skylanders: SuperChargers is a toy-to-life video game in which players can place toy figurine on the Portal of Power, which will allow player to play as the figurine-represented character in-game. The 117 characters introduced in the series since Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure will still be playable in SuperChargers, but the game will only include 20 new figurines, due to the inclusion of vehicles.