Protein:Protein found in your urine indicates a problem in kidney function such as an infection. If protein is found in your urine late in pregnancy this may be a sign of preeclampsia. You healthcare provider will examine you for preeclampsia if: Consistent levels of sugar (glucose) are detected You have high blood pressure You have swelling in your face and hands.
Urinalysis is a test that evaluates a sample of your urine. Urinalysis is used to detect and assess a wide range of disorders, such as urinary tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. Urinalysis involves examining the appearance, concentration and content of urine. 
Urine Test: Urinalysis. A urine test is a routine test used by your healthcare provider as part of your prenatal care. Although urine tests are used in screening for pregnancy, this article is discussing urine tests as part of your routine prenatal care. If protein is found in your urine late in pregnancy this may be a sign of preeclampsia. You healthcare provider will examine you for preeclampsia if: Consistent levels of sugar (glucose) are detected You have high blood pressure You have swelling in your face and hands.
A urine tests is used to assess bladder or kidney infections, diabetes, dehydration and preeclampsia by screening for high levels of sugars, proteins, ketones and bacteria. High levels of sugars may suggest gestational diabetes, which may develop around the 20th week of pregnancy. If protein is found in your urine late in pregnancy this may be a sign of preeclampsia. You healthcare provider will examine you for preeclampsia if: 1  Consistent levels of sugar (glucose) are detected and. 2  You have high blood pressure. 3  You have swelling in your face and hands.
Protein: Protein found in your urine indicates a problem in kidney function such as an infection. If protein is found in your urine late in pregnancy this may be a sign of preeclampsia. You healthcare provider will examine you for preeclampsia if: 1  Consistent levels of sugar (glucose) are detected and. 2  You have high blood pressure. 3  You have swelling in your face and hands.
Other tests may also be used to check for signs of preeclampsia, including: 1  Blood testsBlood tests to check for problems such as HELLP syndrome and kidney damage. 2  Creatinine clearance testCreatinine clearance test to check kidney function. 3  24-hour urine collection test to check protein in the urine. Certain tests are given at each prenatal visit to check for preeclampsia. These include a: 1  Blood pressure reading. 2  Blood pressure is always monitored closely during pregnancy. 3  Urine testUrine test to check for too much protein in the urine. 4  This is a sign of kidney damage caused by preeclampsia. 5  Weight measurement.
Excess protein in your urine can be a sign of a urinary tract infection (UTI) , kidney damage, or certain other disorders. Later in your pregnancy, it can also be a sign of preeclampsia if it's accompanied by high blood pressure. If you have protein in your urine but your blood pressure is normal, your provider may send a clean-catch midstream sample to the lab in a sterile container to test for a UTI. Ketones.
A urine tests is used to assess bladder or kidney infections, diabetes, dehydration and preeclampsia by screening for high levels of sugars, proteins, ketones and bacteria. High levels of sugars may suggest gestational diabetes, which may develop around the 20th week of pregnancy. If protein is found in your urine late in pregnancy this may be a sign of preeclampsia. You healthcare provider will examine you for preeclampsia if: Consistent levels of sugar (glucose) are detected You have high blood pressure You have swelling in your face and hands.
An hCG (human chorionic gonadotropin) urine test is a pregnancy test. The hCG hormone, also called the pregnancy hormone, is produced in the placenta of a pregnant woman. If you are pregnant, this hormone can usually be detected in your urine about 10 days after your first missed period. Diagnostic Uses of the HCG Urine Test. The hCG urine test is used to confirm pregnancy about one to two weeks after a missed period. This is a qualitative test, which means that it will tell you whether or not the hCG hormone is detected in your urine. It is not intended to reveal specific levels of the hormone.
A 24-hour urine collection is a simple diagnostic procedure that measures the components of urine. The test is noninvasive (the skin is not pierced), and is used to assess kidney (renal) function. Twenty-four hour urine collection is performed by collecting a person's urine in a special container over a 24-hour period. The container must be kept cool during this time until it is returned to the lab for analysis. The results of a 24-hour urine collection may provide information to help your doctor make or confirm a diagnosis. Related procedures that may be used to diagnose kidney disease include kidney ultrasound, kidney scan, kidney biopsy, and renal arteriogram.