NFL teams are the most expensive to see live with an average ACI of $113.42. The NHL is next ($84.05), followed by the NBA ($74.67), and Major League Baseball has the cheapest teams with an average ACI of $48.34. Overall, the average cost for an adult to attend a game for all 122 teams is $79.31. The ACI is calculated using data collected by Team Marketing from surveys of teams.
Tickets for a major league baseball game rose 5.4 percent in 2006, for an average ticket price of $22.21. Add in food, parking and souvenirs for a family of four (four small soft drinks, two small beers, four hot dogs, two game programs, parking, and two adult-size caps) and the cost jumps to $171.89. 
A Major League Baseball ticket remains the most affordable of the four major sports. The average price of a ticket to a game this season is $27.93, up 2 percent from last year, according to Team Marketing Report's Fan Cost Index. A World Series title by the Boston Red Sox led to a pricing increase that now puts them past their division rival New York Yankees.
Major League Baseball: average ticket price by team in 2015 (in U.S. dollars). This graph depicts the average ticket prize of all Major League Baseball teams in 2015. The average ticket price for a Houston Astros home game is 31.82 U.S. dollars. MLB average ticket prices-additional information. During the 2014 MLB season, the league-wide average ticket price was just under 28 U.S. dollars. This marks an increase of over 5 U.S. dollars from the average price in the 2007 season
For a family of four to attend a game with average-price tickets, two small draft beers, four small soft drinks, four regular-size hot dogs and parking, the average cost is $211—Cracker Jacks not included! And you may be surprised by which teams' tickets are going for top dollar. According to secondary ticket site TiqIQ, the average cost to attend an MLB game this year is $83.
15. Chicago White Sox, $210 for four fans. The average cost for four fans to attend a game on Chicago's south side is two bucks below the Major League Baseball average of $212, according to Team Marketing Report. More interesting, the White Sox charge much less than their intracity rivals, the Cubs. How much it will cost to attend a MLB game. A family of four can expect to pay about $212 on average to take in a Major League Baseball game. But costs vary dramatically by team, according to preseason study by Team Marketing Report in Chicago.
As Major League Baseball kicks off its 2015 season, ticket prices are more expensive than ever. And you may be surprised by which teams' tickets are going for top dollar. According to secondary ticket site TiqIQ, the average cost to attend an MLB game this year is $83. On the primary market—buying tickets directly from the teams—prices are cheaper, averaging $29 per ticket
Even worse, though, is the that index obscures the fact that attending a Major League Baseball game is, even in 2014, a good bargain. The White Sox, for instance, are just below the league average on the Fan Cost Index. Tickets for Saturday's game against the division rival Indians start at just $7. Tickets to a major league baseball game can actually be cheaper than going to a movie -- and it's hard to beat the excitement. (Getty Images). Every year, right around Opening Day of the baseball season, Team Marketing Report releases its Fan Cost Index..