The avian respiratory system is different from that of other vertebrates, with birds having relatively small lungs plus nine air sacs that play an important role in respiration (but are not directly involved in the exchange of gases). Diagram of parabronchial anatomy, gas-exchange region of the bird's lung-air-sac respiratory system. The few hundred to thousand parabronchi, one of which is fully shown here, are packed tightly into a hexagonal array.
Report Abuse. As a bird breathes, air moves into its rear air sacs (1). These then expel the air into the lung (2) and the air flows through the lung into the front air sacs (3). The air is expelled by the front air sacs as the bird breathes out. The lung does not expand and contract as does a reptile’s or mammal’s. 
Air sacs are spaces within an organism where there is the constant presence of air. Among modern animals, birds possess the most air sacs (9–11), with their extinct dinosaurian relatives showing a great increase in the pneumatization (presence of air) in their bones. Critics have claimed that, without avian air sacs, modest improvements in a few aspects of a modern reptile's circulatory and respiratory systems would enable the reptile to achieve 50% to 70% of the oxygen flow of a mammal of similar size, and that lack of avian air sacs would not prevent the development of endothermy.
The air sacs of birds extend into the humerus (the bone between the shoulder and elbow), the femur (the thigh bone), the vertebrae and even the skull. Birds do not have a diaphragm; instead, air is moved in and out of the respiratory system through pressure changes in the air sacs. Muscles in the chest cause the sternum to be pushed outward. This creates a negative pressure in the air sacs, causing air to enter the respiratory system. Respiration in birds is much different than in mammals. Birds have a larynx, but it is not used to make sounds. Instead, an organ termed the syrinx serves as the voice box.. Birds have lungs, but they also have air sacs. Depending upon the species, the bird has seven or nin
The main function of the air sacs in birds is to draw air through the lungs, especially during flight, to regulate heat, and to alter the specific gravity of the birds while swimming and diving. Many skeletal bones in birds (femur, humerus, sternum, and others) have cavities filled with air sac processes. 
Air Sacs of a Bird. The air sacs of birds extend into the humerus (the bone between the shoulder and elbow), the femur (the thigh bone), the vertebrae and even the skull. Birds do not have a diaphragm; instead, air is moved in and out of the respiratory system. through pressure changes in the air sacs. When the bird inspires the second time, the air moves to the cranial air sacs. On the second expiration, the air moves out of the cranial air sacs, through the syrinx. into the trachea, through the larynx, and finally through the nasal cavity and out of the. nostrils. Hope this is clear as mud.
The air sacs permit a unidirectional flow of air through the lungs. Unidirectional flow means that air moving through bird lungs is largely 'fresh' air & has a higher oxygen content. In contrast, air flow is 'bidirectional' in mammals, moving back & forth into & out of the lungs. 
Birds are equipped with nine respiratory air sacs to supplement  their smaller lungs. Birds have a higher metabolic rate, so they  need higher amounts of oxygen. The air sac … s enable birds to  ventilate their lungs by allowing a unidirectional flow of air  through the lungs. Put simply, this means that air moving through  the bird's lungs has a higher oxygen content, to deliver more  oxygen directly to the blood.
The air sacs permit a unidirectional flow of air through the lungs. Unidirectional flow means that air moving through bird lungs is largely 'fresh' air & has a higher oxygen content. In contrast, air flow is 'bidirectional' in mammals, moving back and forth into and out of the lungs. Diagram of parabronchial anatomy, gas-exchange region of the bird's lung-air-sac respiratory system. The few hundred to thousand parabronchi, one of which is fully shown here, are packed tightly into a hexagonal array.
The avian respiratory system is different from that of other vertebrates, with birds having relatively small lungs plus air sacs that play an important role in respiration (but are not directly involved in the exchange of gases). The air sacs permit a unidirectional flow of air through the lungs. 