For example, call if: 1  You have symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. 2  These may include: 3  Sudden raised, red areas (hives) all over your body. 4  Swelling of the throat, mouth, lips, or tongue. 5  Trouble breathing. 6  Passing out (losing consciousness). 7  Or you may feel very lightheaded or suddenly feel weak, confused, or restless. 1 You have symptoms of an allergic reaction, such as: 2  A rash or hives (raised, red areas on the skin). 3  Itching. 4  Swelling. 5  Belly pain, nausea, or vomiting.
Several types of medications are used to treat allergy symptoms. Here's more information. Allergy medications are available as pills, liquids, inhalers, nasal sprays, eyedrops, skin creams and shots (injections). Some allergy medications are available over-the-counter, while others are available by prescription only. Here's a summary of the various types of allergy medications and why they're used. Pills and liquids. Oral decongestants relieve nasal and sinus congestion caused by hay fever (allergic rhinitis). Many decongestants, such as pseudoephedrine (Sudafed, Afrinol, others), are available as over-the-counter drugs. A number of oral allergy medications contain a decongestant combined with an antihistamine.
1 Symptoms caused by histamine include a runny nose and itchy, watery eyes. 2  Antihistamines reduce allergic reactions by blocking the attachment of histamine to cells in the body that produce an allergic response. 3  Decongestants. 4  Decongestants help shrink swollen nasal passages for easier breathing. 1 Antihistamines. 2  Part of the body's natural allergic response is the release of histamine, a substance that dilates blood vessels and making the walls of blood vessels abnormally permeable. 3 
Pollen allergy affects about 1 out of 10 Americans, according to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). For some, symptoms can be controlled by using over-the-counter (OTC) medicine occasionally. Others have reactions that may more seriously disrupt the quality of their lives. Many people with allergic rhinitis notice a seasonal pattern with their symptoms, but others may need a health care professional's help to find out for sure if pollen is the source of their misery. If symptoms crop up year-round, dust mites, pet dander or another indoor allergy trigger (allergen) could be the culprit.
Signs and symptoms of a drug allergy often occur within an hour after taking a drug. Less commonly, reactions can occur hours, days or weeks later. Drug allergy symptoms may include: 1  Skin rash. 2  Hives. 3  Itching. 4  Fever. 5  Swelling. 6  Shortness of breath. 7  Wheezing. 
Side effects may include stinging in the nose. Oral and nasal antihistamines: These drugs, whether OTC or prescription, counteract the action of histamine, a substance released in the body during an allergic reaction. Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Chlor-Trimeton (chlorpheniramine) are examples of OTC antihistamines. Many people with allergic rhinitis notice a seasonal pattern with their symptoms, but others may need a health care professional's help to find out for sure if pollen is the source of their misery. If symptoms crop up year-round, dust mites, pet dander or another indoor allergy trigger (allergen) could be the culprit.
If your allergy symptoms are relatively severe or over-the-counter eye drops are ineffective at providing relief, you may need your eye doctor to prescribe a stronger medication. Prescription eye drops and oral medications used to relieve eye allergies include: 1  Antihistamines. 1 Antihistamines. 2  Part of the body's natural allergic response is the release of histamine, a substance that dilates blood vessels and making the walls of blood vessels abnormally permeable. 3  Symptoms caused by histamine include a runny nose and itchy, watery eyes.
For example, call if: 1  You have symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. 2  Sudden raised, red areas (hives) all over your body. 3  Swelling of the throat, mouth, lips, or tongue. 4  Trouble breathing. 5  Passing out (losing consciousness). 1 You have symptoms of an allergic reaction, such as: 2  A rash or hives (raised, red areas on the skin). 3  Itching. 4  Swelling. 5  Belly pain, nausea, or vomiting.
Overview. Bumps, itching, redness and other skin conditions are very common, and their cause may not be easily identifiable. Rashes can be caused by many things, including plants (poison ivy, for example), allergic reactions to a medication or a food, or an illness (measles or chickenpox, for example). Eczema and hives, both of which are related to allergies, are two of the most common skin rashes. Atopic dermatitis