The only way to get a large amount of sugar into your body is to have that sugar processed before you put it in your mouth. Processed sugar and processed grains both act like sugar in your body and this is toxic to the very blood cells that carry the sugar throughout the body. Eating too much sugar pulls water out of your body in two ways. 1  Dilution: When you eat too much sugar, your body has to dilute that sugar to keep it from harming your body. 2  This means that water is pulled from all parts of your body to balance the large amount of sugar in your blood stream.
Sugar Dehydration. Dehydration is a common way to get a headache and sugar can lead to dehydration. Eating too much sugar pulls water out of your body in two ways. 1  Dilution: When you eat too much sugar, your body has to dilute that sugar to keep it from harming your body. 2  This means that water is pulled from all parts of your body to balance the large amount of sugar in your blood stream.
The Glycemic Index and Other Tips. The glycemic index is a tool that can help you avoid foods that will spike your blood sugar. It ranks foods on a scale of 1 to 100 -- those that score 55 or less are low-glycemic foods and have the smallest impact on blood sugar. The only way to treat low blood sugar is to eat, particularly simple carbohydrates that your body can quickly convert to glucose. The key to managing hypoglycemia is prevention -- making changes to your diet to stabilize blood sugar levels.
Just like high blood sugar levels, low blood sugar levels also cause headaches. The best thing you can do to relieve your headache symptoms is to cut out processed garbage foods from your diet. Stick to all-natural fruits, vegetables and lean meats. If you can buy your food organic, that’s even better. Drink More Water. Headaches are often caused by dehydration. I have some clients whose headaches go away as soon as they drink a glass of water. But if you think your headaches may be caused by dehydration, don’t go guzzle a ton of water all at once.
The same is true of the sugar headache. I view the sugar headache as a toxicity or dehydration event and while it might be an annoyance, it could also be the sign of something more dangerous. Let’s look at dehydration and toxicity and see how they might cause a headache. Eating too much sugar pulls water out of your body in two ways. 1  Dilution: When you eat too much sugar, your body has to dilute that sugar to keep it from harming your body. 2  This means that water is pulled from all parts of your body to balance the large amount of sugar in your blood stream.
Hypoglycemia and Headaches. Glucose is your body's primary source of energy. When you don't have glucose readily available, your body can convert stored fat into energy to function, but your brain can't use that type of energy as effectively as glucose. The only way to treat low blood sugar is to eat, particularly simple carbohydrates that your body can quickly convert to glucose. The key to managing hypoglycemia is prevention -- making changes to your diet to stabilize blood sugar levels.
There is also a type of headache that can be seen in patients with diabetes that experience frequent low blood sugars, which are followed by rebound high blood sugars. This rebound phenomenon is often due to hormones that the body releases in response to a low blood sugar in an attempt to regulate itself. When Blood Sugar is Too Low. One of the suspected causes of low blood sugar-caused headaches has to do with the blood vessels in your brain. Your brain needs a readily available supply of glucose in order to function properly. If the brain senses it does not have enough sugar, blood vessels in the brain can spasm, triggering a headache
Headaches are a common symptom of hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar. When glucose levels drop, your body sends a series of hormonal signals that trigger hunger; these hormones may also cause anxiety, mood swings, blurred vision and headache. The only way to treat low blood sugar is to eat, particularly simple carbohydrates that your body can quickly convert to glucose. The key to managing hypoglycemia is prevention -- making changes to your diet to stabilize blood sugar levels.