1 Use an instant read thermometer! (You know why!) Cook beef and pork loaves to an internal temperature of 165 degrees F; ground chicken and turkey to 170 degrees F. 2  For best texture, don't use more than 3/4 cup of filler ingredients per pound of meat. 
Cover the meatloaf mixture with the rest of the ketchup. 5 Bake for 1 hour at 350°F, or until a meat thermometer inserted into the center of the meatloaf reads 155°F. Remove from oven and let sit for 10 minutes. Then use a metal spatula to gently lift the meatloaf out of the loaf pan to a serving plate. Make thick slices to serve. 
Combine the ground turkey, bread crumbs, eggs, and onion mixture in a large bowl. Mix well and shape into a rectangular loaf on an ungreased sheet pan. Spread the ketchup evenly on top. Bake for 1 1/2 hours until the internal temperature is 160 degrees F. and the meatloaf is cooked through. (A pan of hot water in the oven under the meatloaf will keep the top from cracking.) Serve hot, at room temperature, or cold in a sandwich. Copyright 1999, The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook, All Rights Reserved.
• Add a cup of grated cheese to the meatloaf mixture before baking, and another 1/2 cup over the top of the loaf during the last 15 minutes of baking. • Add 1/3 cup of vegetable juice, wine, beef broth, or beer to the mixture for added flavor. • Soft bread crumbs make a more tender, juicier loaf than dry crumbs. • For individual servings that bake quickly, mound meat mixture into greased muffin tins, which should be done in about 20 minutes. • Meatloaf baked in a standard 4-inch by 4-inch by 8-inch loaf pan is baked at 350 degrees F. for 1 to 1-1/2 hours. • Use about 1/2 cup filler per 1 pound of meat. This filler can be bread crumbs, mashed moist bread, oat bran, grated potato, grated carrot, mashed potatoes or wherever your experiments take you
USDA recommends not eating or tasting raw or undercooked ground beef. To be sure all bacteria are destroyed, cook meat loaf, meatballs, and hamburgers to a safe minimum internal temperature of 160 °F (71.1 °C). Use a food thermometer to check that they have reached a safe internal temperature. If ground beef is refrigerated promptly after cooking (within 2 hours; 1 hour if the temperature is above 90 °F), it can be safely refrigerated for about 3 or 4 days. If frozen, it should keep its quality for about 4 months.
F or higher. Anytime you mix a variety of ingredients, as in meatloaf, casserole, stuffed meat and pasta, etc., require the higher internal temp. The 155 internal temp standard is for ground (called comminuted in California law) beef, pork or lamb. 
Photo 3 shows my meatloaf after 55 minutes of cooking, at an internal temperature of 111°F. You can see that I've scored the loaf, but not yet applied the sauce. Photo 4 shows the finished meatloaf after 90 minutes of cooking, at an internal temperature of 167°F. 1 At an internal temperature of about 100°F, score the top of the meatloaf in a diamond pattern and apply a ketchup-based sauce, then continue cooking to a finished internal temperature of 160-165°F. 2  Tent loosely with foil and let rest for 10 minutes before slicing
•Use a meat thermometer to gauge the internal temperature of meat loaf. Cook ground beef, pork, and veal to 160 degrees and ground poultry to 165 degrees. Reheat any type of meat loaf to an internal temperature of 165 degrees. Note: We found that very lean ground beef may still be pink when fully cooked, so be sure to use a meat thermometer to test its doneness.