Supplementation of alpha-ketoglutarate and L-arginine though L-arginine AKG may be considered by athletes and bodybuilders as part of their workout routine. *NOTE: These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
They choose the best which is the arginine-akg muscle building supplement. The side effects of supplements containing AAKG which are abdominal pain and diarrhea are outweighed by the arginine alpha ketoglutarate benefits. These side effects can be eliminated if you take the AAKG supplement as prescribed.
Where it comes from: Arginine Alpha-ketoglutarate (also known as AAKG and arginine) is a nonessential amino acid that’s necessary when it comes to making nitric oxide in the liver.
One of the reasons for quite a few of these benefits is because arginine AKG increases nitric oxide production in the body. Nitric oxide controls a lot of processes in the body, including blood vessel dilation, muscle growth, the function of the immune system, and nerve signaling.
AAKG use is common among bodybuilders. Photo Credit TongRo Images/TongRo Images/Getty Images. Arginine alpha-ketoglutarate is a dietary supplement consisting of the amino acid arginine -- a building block of protein -- and alpha-ketoglurate, a compound that breaks down sugars and amino acids.
L-arginine AKG provides alpha-ketoglutarate and the amino acid, L-arginine. L-arginine AKG provides support to energy metabolism as well as helping the body to dispose of excess nitrogen.
L-arginine AKG provides alpha-ketoglutarate and the amino acid, L-arginine. L-arginine is a non-essential amino acid that is central to the urea cycle, a process which allows the body to dispose of excess nitrogen. L-arginine, a proteinogenic amino acid, provides support for healthy metabolic and immune system function.
For athletes, arginine AKG is beneficial because it helps to increase the growth of muscles and increases the dilation of blood vessels. If you exercise regularly and have more blood flowing to your muscles, your muscles will look bigger.