Capricorn, the tenth sign of the zodiac, is all about hard work. Those born under this sign are more than happy to put in a full day at the office, realizing that it will likely take a lot of those days to get to the top. The great strengths of the Capricorn-born are their willingness to work hard and their determination to succeed. Their ambition is boundless, yet they are cautious, responsible and always play fair. That's why their successes are all the more sweet.
In astrology, Capricorn is considered an earth sign, introvert sign, a power sign and one of the four cardinal signs. It is also tagged as the most ambitious starsign. Capricorn (♑)(/kaep.kæp.rɪ/) kɔːn is the tenth astrological sign in the, Zodiac Pining umali originating from the constellation Of. capricornus
Ruling Planet: Saturn. Capricorn Traits: The Capricorn-born people are the most determined of the entire Zodiac. The most prominent qualities of the Goats, as they are called, are that they are ambitious, conservative, determined, practical and helpful. 
Capricorn! The sign Capricorn is one of the most stable and (mostly) serious of the zodiacal types. These independent, rocklike characters have many sterling qualities. They are normally confident, strong willed and calm. These hardworking, unemotional, shrewd, practical, responsible, persevering, and. The animal associated with your sign is this beautiful Goat, it is a surefooted animal that weighs in at an average of 150-300 pounds and reaching heights of 35-45 inches. Due to its hooves, with cushioned skid-proof pads for grip, the goat is very agile.
Capricorn (♑)(/kaep.kæp.rɪ/) kɔːn is the tenth astrological sign in the, Zodiac Pining umali originating from the constellation Of. Capricornus it spans the–270 300th degree of the, zodiac corresponding to celestial. Longitude capricorn is ruled by the Planet. saturn Capricorn (♑)(/kaep.kæp.rɪ/) kɔːn is the tenth astrological sign in the, Zodiac Pining umali originating from the constellation Of. capricornus
Capricorn and Water Signs (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces). Capricorn in love with a Water sign is potentially one of the most supportive and loving relationships you can have. Water signs express their emotions well and help you to do the same. They are compassionate and open to helping you fulfill your own needs
Capricorn is the tenth sign of the astrological year and is known by its astrological symbol, the Goat. Capricorn individuals are controlled, conscientious, and practical. With Saturn as the ruling planet, people born under this sign are self-disciplined and hard-working. 