Many species vanished in five cataclysmic mass extinctions and today, 99.9 percent of all species that have existed on Earth are extinct. T he Ordovician-Silurian extinction occurred about 439 million years ago due to a drop in sea levels as glaciers formed followed by rising sea levels as glaciers melted. During this extinction 25 percent of marine families and 60 percent of marine genera (the classification above species) were lost. T he Late Devonian extinction took place somewhere around 364 million years ago. To this day its cause is unknown
Click here to download. The Permian period, which ended in the largest mass extinction the Earth has ever known, began about 299 million years ago. The emerging supercontinent of Pangaea presented severe extremes of climate and environment due to its vast size. The south was cold and arid, with much of the region frozen under ice caps
Of the five or so mass extinctions recorded in Earth's fossils, this one at the end of the Permian period and the start of the Triassic was the most catastrophic. More than half of the families of living things died out, and as many as 90 to 96 percent of the planet's marine species were lost. At the same time, perhaps 70 percent of the land's reptile, amphibian, insect, and plants species went extinct. The Permian layers contain abundant animal fossils and fossilized traces of animals, while the Triassic layers are almost devoid of fossils, suggesting a mass extinction event occurred 250 million years ago, at the end of the Permian. Credits: 2001 WGBH Educational Foundation and Clear Blue Sky Productions, Inc.
The Great Dying. The Permian Period ended with the greatest mass extinction event in Earth’s history. In a blink of Geologic Time — in as little as 100,000 years — the majority of living species on the planet were wiped out of existence. 
As a result, mammals became the dominant species in the Cenozoic Era. The largest mass extinction happened at the end of the Paleozoic Era. The Permian-Triassic mass extinction event saw about 96% of marine life go extinct, along with 70% of terrestrial life. Even insects weren't immune to this mass extinction event like many of the others in history.
The Permian extinction— the worst extinction event in the planet's history —is estimated to have wiped out more than 90 percent of all marine species and 70 percent of land animals. Various theories seek to explain this mass extinction. The Permian period, which ended in the largest mass extinction the Earth has ever known, began about 299 million years ago. The emerging supercontinent of Pangaea presented severe extremes of climate and environment due to its vast size. The south was cold and arid, with much of the region frozen under ice caps
Even more dramatic than the end-Cretaceous mass extinction, at least in terms of numbers of species lost, was the one that took place 248 million years ago at the end of the Permian Period. Scientists estimate that 96% of all marine species died out completely. 
Global cooling seems to have been a primary cause and there may also have been some meteorite impacts during this time. 3) End Permian Extinctions. The mass extinction that occurred at the end of the Permian was the worst mass extinction in history. An estimated 96% of marine species became extinct. 