Semen. Semen is the fluid produced by males for sexual reproduction and is ejaculated out of the body during sexual intercourse. Semen contains sperm, the male reproductive gametes, along with a number of chemicals suspended in a liquid medium. These organs also work together to deliver semen out of the body and into the vagina where it can fertilize egg cells to produce offspring.... Click to read more below. The male reproductive system includes the scrotum, testes, spermatic ducts, sex glands, and penis. These organs work together to produce sperm, the male gamete, and the other components of semen
The primary function of the reproductive system is to produce male and female sex cells and to ensure the growth and development of offspring. The reproductive system is comprised of male and female reproductive organs and structures. The growth and activity of these organs and structures is regulated by hormones. Secondary organs aid in the growth and maturation of gametes and developing offspring. 1  Female Reproductive System. 2  Labia majora-Larger lip-like external structures that cover and protect sexual structures. 3  Labia minora-Smaller lip-like external structures found inside the labia majora.
Gonads. Gonads are the male and female primary reproductive organs. The male gonads are the testes and the female gonads are the ovaries. These reproductive system organs are necessary for sexual reproduction as they are responsible for the production of male and female gametes. As a component of the endocrine system, both male and female gonads produce sex hormones. Male and female sex hormones are steroid hormones and as such, can pass through the cell membrane of their target cells to influence gene expression within cells.
1 Testes-Male primary reproductive structures that produce male gametes (sperm) and sex hormones. 2  Scrotum-External pouch of skin that contains the testes. 3  Because the scrotum is located outside of the abdomen, it can reach temperatures that are lower than that of internal body structures. Secondary organs aid in the growth and maturation of gametes and developing offspring. 1  Female Reproductive System. 2  Labia majora-Larger lip-like external structures that cover and protect sexual structures. 3  Labia minora-Smaller lip-like external structures found inside the labia majora.
Cells in the reproductive organs (testes testes: An organ that produces the male reproductive cells. and ovaries ovaries: A pair of organs in the female reproductive system where ova (eggs) and sex hormones are produced. in humans) divide to form gametes. Gametes are sex cells : 
Human reproduction employs internal fertilization, and depends on the integrated action of hormones, the nervous system, and the reproductive system. Gonads are sex organs that produce gametes. Male gonads are the testes, which produce sperm and male sex hormones. The Male Reproductive System. Testes are suspended outside the abdominal cavity by the scrotum, a pouch of skin that keeps the testes close or far from the body at an optimal temperature for sperm development. Seminiferous tubules are inside each testis, and are where sperm are produced by meiosis. About 250 meters (850 feet) of tubules are packed into each testis. Spermatocytes inside the tubules divide by meiosis to produce spermatids that in turn develop into mature sperm. The male reproductive system
The female reproductive system contains organs and structures that promote the production, support, growth, and development of female gametes (egg cells) and a growing fetus. Secondary organs aid in the growth and maturation of gametes and developing offspring. 1  Female Reproductive System. 2  Labia majora-Larger lip-like external structures that cover and protect sexual structures. 3  Labia minora-Smaller lip-like external structures found inside the labia majora.
1 Penis-Main organ involved in sexual intercourse. 2  This organ is composed of erectile tissue, connective tissue, and skin. 3  The urethra extends through the length of the penis, allowing urine and sperm to pass. 4  Testes-Male primary reproductive structures that produce male gametes (sperm) and sex hormones. Secondary organs aid in the growth and maturation of gametes and developing offspring. 1  Female Reproductive System. 2  Labia majora-Larger lip-like external structures that cover and protect sexual structures. 3  Labia minora-Smaller lip-like external structures found inside the labia majora.