1 For example, you can see that the Wireless LAN Adapter has an IP address of 192.168.1.6. 2  This is the LAN(inside) IP address that is assigned to the network adapter on this particular Windows computer. 3  To find your external(public) click here. 1 Type ipconfig and hit enter on the keyboard. 2  This will display IP Address information for each network adapter that is connected to your computer. 3 
IP Subnet Mask. This is the LAN subnet mask of the modem router. Combined with the IP address, the IP subnet mask allows a device to know which other addresses are local to it, and which must be reached through a gateway or modem router. Configuring LAN IP Settings. The LAN IP Setup screen allows configuration of LAN IP services such as DHCP and RIP. The modem router is shipped preconfigured to use private IP addresses on the LAN side, and to act as a DHCP server.
Most common LAN addresses start with 192.168.x.x. You may need to known your LAN IP address for instance when using a DHCP-dynamic allocation of IP addresses-or to connect to a local game server.
Shares & Saves. Save. Every computer connected to the Internet has is a unique numeric IP address, presented usually in the dot-decimal form (e.g. 195.15.32.1). Local area network (LAN) is a network that comprises a few computers within a limited area; for instance, two or three computers in the same household. 
Each computer or device on this private network has its own IP address that uses private IP address space. Anyone may use these LAN addresses without approval from a registry and IP packets addressed by them cannot be transmitted onto the public Internet. You may need to known your LAN IP address for instance when using a DHCP-dynamic allocation of IP addresses-or to connect to a local game server.
A local area network (LAN) is a computer network that interconnects computers within a limited area such as a residence, school, laboratory, or office building. A local area network is contrasted in principle to a wide area network (WAN), which covers a larger geographic distance and may involve leased telecommunication circuits, while the media for LANs are locally managed.