Places to visit include Topley Landing Provincial Park where you can find a nice sandy beach along the water's edge. Granisle Also located on the shores of Babine Lake is the small retirement community of Granisle, only 49 km (31 miles) from Topley. Unfortunately, W.F. Topley passed away in 1930 and was unable to photograph and visit the settlement. Hwy 16 Most of the businesses and local activity found in Topley is located on Hwy 16 going through town. Here you can find a couple of places to eat, the Country Grill and the Topley Cafe. café
Babine Lake Located just north of Topley on Hwy 118 (Topley Landing Road) is Babine Lake, the longest natural lake in British Columbia. Babine Lake is very remote, clean and offers endless angling opportunities throughout the entire length of about 117 km (110 miles) for Sockeye salmon, Kokanee, Char and Rainbow trout. Unfortunately, W.F. Topley passed away in 1930 and was unable to photograph and visit the settlement. Hwy 16 Most of the businesses and local activity found in Topley is located on Hwy 16 going through town. Here you can find a couple of places to eat, the Country Grill and the Topley Cafe. café
Frank and Dianne Strimbold have been busy for the last 35 years developing a strong herd of Black Angus cattle on their Poplar Meadows Ranch located in Topley, a small community on Highway 16 between Burns Lake and Houston, BC. 
Topley Topley is located 30 km (19 miles) east of Houston and 51 km (32 miles) west of Burns Lake on Yellowhead Hwy 16. Unfortunately, W.F. Topley passed away in 1930 and was unable to photograph and visit the settlement. Hwy 16 Most of the businesses and local activity found in Topley is located on Hwy 16 going through town. Here you can find a couple of places to eat, the Country Grill and the Topley Cafe. café
detailed map of Topley and near places. Welcome to the Topley google satellite map! This place is situated in Bulkley-Nechako Regional District, British Columbia, Canada, its geographical coordinates are 54° 31' 0 North, 126° 18' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Topley. 3D map of Topley in Canada. You can also dive right into Topley on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Topley 3D map within your web browser.
Topley Landing Provincial Park. Topley Provincial Park lies next to Babine Lake, 12 kilometres east of Granisle, immediately west of the community of Topley Landing and 40 kilometres north of Topley. This small 12 hectare provincial park is within the asserted traditional territory of the Nat’oot’en Nation who have used this site for a food fishery. Visitors reach Topley Provincial Park by travelling 40 kilometres north of Topley, from Highway 16 to Topley Landing on Babine Lake. 900 m south of the Fulton Spawning Channels on the Granisle Road, turn east onto Marina Way.
Located just east of the community of Topley, the Topley Estates are centrally located in the Lakes District of British Columbia. These five acres parcels have direct year-round road access and power. Topley Estates, Lot 17 OM55- Lot 17. Located close to the community of Topley, this 5 acre lot is ideal for a recreational retreat for the serious fisherman. Just a short drive from the many lakes and rivers of the Lakes District, this property has power and all-season road access.
Location: Topley is located on Yellowhead Highway 16, between Burns Lake and Houston, approximately 278 km (172.2 miles) west of Prince George (3-1/2 hours). The nearest commercial airport is at Smithers, approximately one hour away. Topley was first settled during the construction of the Grand Pacific Railway, and acted as a home base for the section crews in the area. When the town site opened its first post office in 1921, it was decided to name the town after early settler William J. Topley.
Topley Donald Lovegrove 2014-06-01T19:01:56+00:00. The small community of Topley is located on the Yellowhead Highway (Highway 16) in northern British Columbia, in a region known as the Lakes District. Topley was first settled during the construction of the Grand Pacific Railway, and acted as a home base for the section crews in the area. When the town site opened its first post office in 1921, it was decided to name the town after early settler William J. Topley.