Geography. Situated in the wide valley of the Yukon River and the Yukon Southern Lakes Ecoregion, the geography around Whitehorse is characterized by broad valleys and large lakes. It is surrounded by three nearby mountains: Grey Mountain to the east, Haeckel Hill to the northwest and Golden Horn Mountain to the south. Geography and Climate. Situated in the wide valley of the Yukon River and the Yukon Southern Lakes Ecoregion, the geography around Whitehorse is characterized by broad valleys and large lakes.
Dawson City is located 530 kilometers north of Whitehorse along the majestic Klondike Highway. Seasonally, you can also get to Dawson via the Top of the World Highway from Tok, Alaska, a distance of 300 kilometers: the highway closes during the winter months. 
Rising in the coastal mountains of northern British Columbia within 25 miles of the ocean, the Yukon River flows more than 1,800 miles across the Yukon and interior Alaska to its mouth in the Bering Sea, draining roughly 330,000 square miles of territory. While appreciating Yukon's landforms can be as simple as driving the famous Alaska Highway, getting out into the landscape on foot or boat is a more immersive route. A number of national parks and preserves offer among the finest opportunities.
The Canadian territory of Yukon, bordered by Alaska, the Northwest Territories and British Columbia, is rich in history and culture, considering the diversity of its aboriginal population and its importance in the Klondike Gold Rush of the late 1800s. While appreciating Yukon's landforms can be as simple as driving the famous Alaska Highway, getting out into the landscape on foot or boat is a more immersive route. A number of national parks and preserves offer among the finest opportunities.
Whitehorse, Yukon, incorporated as a city in 1950, population 23,276 (2011c), 20,461 (2006c). The City of Whitehorse, the capital of Yukon, is located about 87 km north of the British Columbia border. Communities like Whitehorse, which fall along the Alaska Highway, are often identified by where they sit on this stretch of road
The territory's climate is Arctic in the north (north of Old Crow), subarctic in the central region, between north of Whitehorse and Old Crow, and has a humid continental climate in the far south, south of Whitehorse and in areas close to the BC border. The volcanoes in Yukon are part of the circle of volcanoes around the Pacific Ocean known as the Pacific Ring of Fire. Yukon includes more than 100 separate volcanic centres that have been active during the Quaternary.
Chief among the territory's rivers is the Yukon, one of the major drainages of the continent and, through the scene of long human history, only lightly affected by development. While appreciating Yukon's landforms can be as simple as driving the famous Alaska Highway, getting out into the landscape on foot or boat is a more immersive route. A number of national parks and preserves offer among the finest opportunities.
Cordillera is the Climate region where Whitehorse, YT is located. The landform region of Whitehorse is western cordillera. Whitehorse is in the mountain climate region. The three types of rocks, igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks can be found there. The Igneous rocks found in Whitehorse look like metamorphic rocks but they are not. Whitehorse is the driest city in Canada. 
Whitehorse, Yukon. Whitehorse is the capital city of the Yukon. It is located in the south-central part of the Yukon about 200 kilometers north of the British Columbia border. It is located at 60 B 43' North of the equator and has an elevation of 640 meters above sea level. Due to a growing economy, Whitehorse is now a fairly large city of about 24 000 people, with an economy centering on transportation, communication, mining and government offices. Located on a flat area next to the Yukon River, and surrounded by distant mountains Whitehorse is a very scenic area to live or to visit.