Pseudoscience describes any belief system or methodology which tries to gain legitimacy by wearing the trappings of science, but fails to abide by the rigorous methodology and standards of evidence that are the marks of true science. 
Illustration by Alex Robbins. Climate deniers are accused of practicing pseudoscience, as are intelligent design creationists, astrologers, UFOlogists, parapsychologists, practitioners of alternative medicine, and often anyone who strays far from the scientific mainstream. If not, chances are it is pseudoscience. We can demarcate science from pseudoscience less by what science is and more by what scientists do. Science is a set of methods aimed at testing hypotheses and building theories.
In the scientific community, pseudoscience is a term used to describe something that is reported to be a product of science but in reality it has no connection to proper scientific methodology and cannot be realistically proven. Lesson Summary. Pseudoscience is a broad category that refers to research or areas of interest that claim or appear to be scientific in nature but lack any of the standards and hallmarks of legitimate scientific study.
See also: List of topics characterized as pseudoscience. Pseudoscience is a claim, belief or practice which is incorrectly presented as scientific, but does not adhere to a valid scientific method, cannot be reliably tested, or otherwise lacks scientific status. A field, practice, or body of knowledge can reasonably be called pseudoscientific when it is presented as consistent with the norms of scientific research, but it demonstrably fails to meet these norms.
The demarcation between science and pseudoscience is part of the larger task to determine which beliefs are epistemically warranted. The entry clarifies the specific nature of pseudoscience in relation to other forms of non-scientific doctrines and practices. 3.4 A wider sense of pseudoscience. Sometimes the term “pseudoscience” is used in a wider sense than that which is captured in the definition constituted of (1) and (2′). Contrary to (2′), doctrines that conflict with science are sometimes called “pseudoscientific” in spite of not being advanced as scientific.
Pseudoscience is often characterized by the use of vague, contradictory, exaggerated or unprovable claims, an over-reliance on confirmation rather than rigorous attempts at refutation, a lack of openness to evaluation by other experts, and a general absence of systematic processes to rationally develop theories. A field, practice, or body of knowledge can reasonably be called pseudoscientific when it is presented as consistent with the norms of scientific research, but it demonstrably fails to meet these norms.
I. Definition. Pseudo = false. Therefore, pseudoscience is literally translated as false science.. In other words, pseudoscience refers to ideas that proponents claim to be scientific but lack empirical evidence, and that have been arrived at by faulty logic, poor experiments and/or faith. Pseudoscientific studies dont adhere to the philosophy and methods of science.
Pseudoscience is a body of knowledge which presents itself with a veneer of scientific respectability which does not hold up under scrutiny. The term “pseudoscience” is meant to be derogatory; you may also hear terms like “alternative science” or “junk science” used to refer to such fields. 
Pseudoscience is something that claims to be scientific, but it's generally not excepted by the scientific community. In Psychology. Pseudoscience is a practice or method which claims to be scientific or that is made to appear scientific, which in fact does not adhere to scientific methods, lacks supporting … evidence or plausibility.