Fixed Cost. Definition: A fixed cost is a cost that does not vary in the short term, irrespective of changes in production or sales levels, or other measures of activity. A fixed cost is a basic operating expense of a business that cannot be avoided, such as a rent payment. To continue the example of a fixed cost, the rent on a building will not change until the lease runs out or is re-negotiated, irrespective of the level of business activity within that building. Examples of other fixed costs are insurance, depreciation, and property taxes.
Variable costs are those costs that vary depending on a company's production volume; they rise as production increases and fall as production decreases. Variable costs differ from fixed costs such as rent, advertising, insurance and office supplies, which tend to remain the same regardless of production output. 
Variable Cost. Definition: A variable cost is a cost that varies in relation to changes in the volume of activity. The variable cost concept can be used to model the future financial performance of a business, as well as to set minimum price points. The most common variable costs are: 
DEFINITION of 'Fixed Cost'. A cost that does not change with an increase or decrease in the amount of goods or services produced. Fixed costs are expenses that have to be paid by a company, independent of any business activity. It is one of the two components of the total cost of a good or service, along with variable cost. Next Up
Variable costs are costs that change in proportion to the good or service that a business produces. Variable costs are also the sum of marginal costs over all units produced. They can also be considered normal costs. Fixed costs and variable costs make up the two components of total cost. Direct costs, however, are costs that can easily be associated with a particular cost object. However, not all variable costs are direct costs. 
Along with variable costs, fixed costs make up one of the two components of total cost: total cost is equal to fixed costs plus variable costs. In economics, fixed costs, indirect costs or overheads are business expenses that are not dependent on the level of goods or services produced by the business. They tend to be time-related, such as salaries or rents being paid per month, and are often referred to as overhead costs. In management accounting, fixed costs are defined as expenses that do not change as a function of the activity of a business, within the relevant period. For example, a retailer must pay rent and utility bills irrespective of sales. In marketing, it is necessary to know how costs divide between variable and fixed.
The company's total costs are a combination of the fixed and variable costs. If the bicycle company produced 10 bikes, its total costs would be $1,000 fixed plus $2,000 variable equals $3,000, or $300 per unit. For example, if a bicycle business had total fixed costs of $1,000 and only produced one bike, then the full $1,000 in fixed costs must be applied to that bike. On the other hand, if the same business produced 10 bikes, then the fixed costs per unit decline to $100. Variable costs behave differently.
An example of a fixed cost would be a company's lease on a building. If a company has to pay $10,000 each month to cover the cost of the lease but does not manufacture anything during the month, the lease payment is still due in full. Fixed costs are expenses that have to be paid by a company, independent of any business activity. It is one of the two components of the total cost of a good or service, along with variable cost.
Variable costs are costs that vary with output. Generally variable costs increase at a constant rate relative to labor and capital. Variable costs may include wages, utilities, materials used in production, etc. In accounting they also often refer to mixed costs. These are simply costs that are part fixed and part variable. An example could be electricity--electricity usage may increase with production but if nothing is produced a factory still may require a certain amount of power just to maintain itself. All the costs faced by companies can be broken into two main categories: fixed costs and variable costs. Fixed costs are costs that are independent of output. These remain constant throughout the relevant range and are usually considered sunk for the relevant range (not relevant to output decisions).