Sand is a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles. It is defined by size, being finer than gravel and coarser than silt. Sand can also refer to a textural class of soil or soil type; i.e. a soil containing more than 85% sand-sized particles (by mass). An individual particle in this range size is termed a sand grain. Sand grains are between gravel (with particles ranging from 2 mm up to 64 mm) and silt (particles smaller than 0.0625 mm down to 0.004 mm).
What is sand made of. Sand is usually composed of mineral grains. You’ll find a post about the sand-forming minerals here. Sand itself is not a mineral. It is a sediment just like clay, gravel and silt. Most common sand-forming mineral is quartz. There are two good reasons for that. First, quartz is very important rock-forming mineral. It occurs in many igneous rocks, especially granite.
Aside from its origin, sand also contains clues about the history it has experienced, and the physical environment in which it currently resides. For instance, compare the amount of rounding in the sand samples below. The sand on the left is from a steep, small beach in Hawaii exposed to powerful winter ocean swells. But sand is also fascinating. Sandy beaches are dynamic: sand accumulates slowly over time, travels down the coast with longshore drift, is removed from the beach by large waves during storms, and can be redeposited back on the beach from offshore banks during calm periods.
The sand on the left is composed of small fine grains, while that on the right is made of larger, heavier mineral grains. This difference suggests that the beach on the right is typically inundated with larger waves that carry lighter, smaller particles away and leave behind only the larger sediments. But sand is also fascinating. Sandy beaches are dynamic: sand accumulates slowly over time, travels down the coast with longshore drift, is removed from the beach by large waves during storms, and can be redeposited back on the beach from offshore banks during calm periods.
Sand (sånd rhymes with) wand brings all the fun of beach sand indoors without any of the. Mess you can mold, it sculpt, it and write on it just like wet beach, sand But sand sånd is completely dry and only sticks — to itself not! Your hands sand sånd Is an ingenious swedish inventionthat is 98 % regularsand and. 2 % polymer 
Sand is typically made mostly of varying amounts of material weathered from inland rocks (or seacliff material) and transported to the beach on the wind or in rivers, and/or shells and other hard parts precipitated out of the ocean water by marine organisms. But sand is also fascinating. Sandy beaches are dynamic: sand accumulates slowly over time, travels down the coast with longshore drift, is removed from the beach by large waves during storms, and can be redeposited back on the beach from offshore banks during calm periods.
View full size image. Sand is a loose granular material blanketing the beaches, riverbeds and deserts of the world. Composed of different materials that vary depending on location, sand comes in an array of colors including white, black, green and even pink. The most common component of sand is silicon dioxide in the form of quartz. The Earth's landmasses are made up of rocks and minerals, including quartz, feldspar and mica. Weathering processes — such as wind, rain and freezing/thawing cycles — break down these rocks and minerals into smaller grains. Surprisingly little is known about the origin of the copious sand in the world's largest deserts. Research suggests that the Sahara Desert was once lush with vegetation before a change in climate turned it into a desert, part of which is covered in sand.
Sand is made of tiny rock fragments eroded by water. Some of your sand grains are the same color as nearby rocks. You may find a lot of light-colored or even clear particles. Many of these are quartz, a mineral high in silica. Because most sand has a lot of quartz, it is used to manufacture glass. If you visit beaches in different areas, start a sand collection. Find small, clear bottles or plastic containers. 