This list is updated from time to to time by two methods-a door-to-door survey by employees of the election office, and application by the eligible voter. The voters list keeps changing for several reasons like children attaining age of voting (18 years), death, and people migrating from one place to another. (Answer #2). Where I live, on Election Day, the voter must already have been registered to vote. Each voting area is divided into precincts. The voter goes to his assigned precinct (usually a school, church, or other community building) and gives the poll workers his name.
Q 1. Ans. Eighteen. For every constituency, there is a voters list Article 326 of the Constitution, and Sec. 19 of R. P. Act, 1950 stipulate that the minimum age for registration of a voter is 18 years. 
At the time, Florida was the only state that paid a private company to purge the voter file of ineligible voters, in effect allowing a private company to make the administrative decision of who is not eligible to vote. The exclusion of eligible voters from the file was a central part of the controversy surrounding the US presidential elections in 2000, which hinged on results in Florida.
3.2.14. Preparation of the List of Proxies. A person votes by proxy where he/she is unable to vote him/herself on the election day. Another person or elector who is eligible to vote is allowed to vote on their behalf. 3.2.5. Production and Publication of the Preliminary Voters' List. The Preliminary Voters List (PVL) is produced from the MRDB. In the case of the 2001 General and Regional Elections the PVL was produced in 2000 through the use of a powerful stand alone PC.
To vote in a Canadian federal election you must be: 1  A Canadian citizen (Temporary and permanent residents cannot vote); 2  18 years old or older on election day; 3  Residents in the electoral district; and. 4  Registered on the Voters List (also called the list of electors). The National Register of Electors is a database of Canadians who are qualified to vote. A few weeks before the election, Elections Canada will send you a Voter Information Card if your name is on the voters lists. The card will tell you that you are registered, and where and when to vote
Town: Each voter was registered in a town. It is clear from the Windau 1905 list, however, that Voters came to the town to register and were often from the surrounding areas. Forty of the Voters registered to vote in Windau are recorded as being from Pilten. This database consists of Jewish males eligible to vote in the elections to the Russian Duma (Parliament) of 1907. Each of the twenty principal cities and towns of Courland gubernia are included except for Libau (now Liepaja, Latvia).
The Voters List is a list of people who are registered and eligible to vote in the federal election. The Voters List can have mistakes from old information and often, names are missing from this list. If you are not on the Voters List, you can add your name on or before election day. The National Register of Electors is a database of Canadians who are qualified to vote. A few weeks before the election, Elections Canada will send you a Voter Information Card if your name is on the voters lists. The card will tell you that you are registered, and where and when to vote
A voters list or list of electors is a list of names and addresses of eligible voters for an upcoming election or referendum. The voter's lis it is a fundamental component of any voting system. The primary purpose of the voter's list is to confirm the eli eligibility of voters to participate in parli … amentary and local government elections.