Meningococcal meningitis is a form of bacterial meningitis. Meningitis is a disease caused by inflammation and irritation of the meninges, the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord. Meningococcal disease causes life-threatening meningitis and sepsis conditions. In the case of meningitis, bacteria attack the lining between the brain and skull called the meninges. Infected fluid from the meninges then passes into the spinal cord, causing symptoms including stiff neck, fever and rashes.
Meningitis is a disease caused by the inflammation of the protective membranes covering the brain and spinal cord known as the meninges. The inflammation is usually caused by an infection of the fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord. And having meningococcal disease doesn’t necessarily mean you have meningitis. Meningococcal disease is any infection caused by the bacterium Neisseria meningitidis, or meningococcus. Any infection caused by that bacteria is known as meningococcal disease. One serious infection it can cause is meningococcal
MENINGOCOCCAL MENINIGITIS. by Krysta Peterson. Meningococcal Meningitis is a potentially fatal bacterial infection caused by the organism Neisseria meningitidis (2) that results in the inflammation of the meninges of the spinal cord and brain in infected individuals (7). 
Meningococcal infection is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in the UK and Ireland 1. Meningococcal bacteria (Neisseria meningitidis) can cause meningitis or septicaemia, or a combination of these diseases. 
Meningitis is the infection and inflammation of the meninges (covering of the brain and spinal cord: duramater, arachnoid and piamater) and the cerebrospinal fluid. Meningitis is usually caused by bacteria. Virus and fungi can also cause meningitis. The causative organism that involved in meningitis varies with the age of the patient. In newborn it is due to gram-negative bacilli (E.Coli and klebsiella pneumoniae) and group B Streptococcus whereas Haemophilus influenza type b (Hib) is the leading cause in children aged between 2 months to 4 years.
Bacterial meningitis is usually severe. While most people with meningitis recover, it can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities. There are several pathogens (types of germs) that can cause bacterial meningitis. The germs that cause bacterial meningitis can be contagious. Some bacteria can spread through the exchange (e.g., by kissing) of respiratory and throat secretions (e.g., saliva or mucus). Fortunately, most of the bacteria that cause meningitis are not as contagious as viruses that cause the common cold or the flu.
Key facts. 1  Meningococcal meningitis is a bacterial form of meningitis, a serious infection of the thin lining that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. 2  The extended meningitis belt of sub-Saharan Africa, stretching from Senegal in the west to Ethiopia in the east (26 countries), has the highest rates of the disease. 1 Meningococcal meningitis is a bacterial form of meningitis, a serious infection of the thin lining that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.
Inflammation of the meninges (three thin layers of tissue that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord). Meningitis is usually caused by a bacterial or viral infection, but sometimes is caused by cancer, drug allergies, or inflammatory diseases. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute). Symptoms. 
The inflammation may be caused by infection with viruses, bacteria, or other microorganisms, and less commonly by certain drugs. Meningitis can be life-threatening because of the inflammation's proximity to the brain and spinal cord; therefore, the condition is classified as a medical emergency. If a rash is present, it may indicate a particular cause of meningitis; for instance, meningitis caused by meningococcal bacteria may be accompanied by a characteristic rash. A lumbar puncture diagnoses or excludes meningitis.