Permissible exemptions. On their W-4, your employees can claim a withholding exemption for themselves, and for a spouse if the spouse is not claiming his or her own exemption on the spouse's W-4. An employee can also claim one exemption for each child or other dependent claimed on his or her tax return. Generally speaking, the more withholding exemptions an employee claims, the less tax you'll be required to withhold. Technically, each withholding exemption frees a specified dollar amount of wages from withholding. For 2013, the annual value of a withholding exemption is $3,900.
When you hire a new employee, he must fill out a W-4 listing his exemptions from tax withholding. Some employees claim exemption from federal tax withholding because of their low income. Nonresident aliens may not claim exemption from federal income taxes on their W-4. If you know an employee is not a resident of the United States, you must withhold federal taxes from her paycheck even if she claims an exemption on her W-4.
If an employee qualifies, Form W-4 (PDF) is also used by the employee to tell you not to deduct any federal income tax from his or her wages. To qualify for this exempt status, the employee must have had no tax liability for the previous year and must expect to have no tax liability for the current year. Form W-4 tells you, as the employer, the marital status, the number of withholding allowances and any additional amount to use when you deduct federal income tax from the employee's pay.
An employee may claim exempt if he/she had a right to a refund of all income tax withheld in the previous year because he/she had no tax liability AND he/she expects a refund of all income tax withheld this year because he/she expects no tax liability. Why would an employee who claims exempt from state and federal taxes last year suddenly have taxes taken out this year? Any employee who claims exempt from withholding is required to complete a new W-4 form by February 16th of each year to continue being exempt for the following year.
When you hire an employee, you must have the employee complete a Form W-4 (PDF), Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. Form W-4 tells you, as the employer, the marital status, the number of withholding allowances and any additional amount to use when you deduct federal income tax from the employee's pay.
To claim an exemption from withholding, you must meet certain criteria. If you had even $1 of tax liability in the prior year or anticipate earning income in excess of the sum of your standard deduction and exemption, you cannot be exempt from federal tax withholding in the current year. Filing exempt from withholding. When you start a job, your employer will ask you to fill out IRS Form W-4. The W-4 estimates the amount that should be withheld from each paycheck based on the tax information you provide.
No-tax liability exemptions. An employee who anticipates having no federal income tax liability for the year may claim a complete exemption from withholding on Form W-4. This exemption fully relieves you from any obligation to withhold federal income taxes (but not FICA taxes) from the employee's wages. Generally speaking, the more withholding exemptions an employee claims, the less tax you'll be required to withhold. Technically, each withholding exemption frees a specified dollar amount of wages from withholding. For 2013, the annual value of a withholding exemption is $3,900.
A Form W-4 claiming exemption from withholding is valid for only the calendar year in which it is filed with the employer. To continue to be exempt from withholding in the next year, an employee must give you a new Form W-4 claiming exempt status by February 15 of that year. If the employee does not give you a new Form W-4, withhold tax as if he or she is single, with no withholding allowances. Form W-4 tells you, as the employer, the marital status, the number of withholding allowances and any additional amount to use when you deduct federal income tax from the employee's pay.
Employees can claim exemptions to tax withholding if they had no tax liability in the previous year and expect to have no liability this year. Employees must claim exemption by filling out a new W-4 prior to Feb. 15 of each year. Nonresident aliens may not claim exemption from federal income taxes on their W-4. If you know an employee is not a resident of the United States, you must withhold federal taxes from her paycheck even if she claims an exemption on her W-4.
You must set up each exempt employee individually. The company file cannot be set up as exempt from federal and state taxes. To set up an employee as exempt from federal and state withholding: Go to the employee record. In QuickBooks, choose Employees Employee center. Double-click the name of the employee you want to make exempt. Click the Payroll Info tab. Click the Taxes button. On the Federal tab, click the Filing Status drop-down arrow and select Don't Withhold. Click the State tab and use the Filing Status drop-down arrow to select the appropriate option. (The option will vary by state. You may see Don't Withhold, Exempt, or a different choice