1 Make connections between the lung DVD and structure of lungs. 2  Tissue – a group of similar cells specialised to carry out the same function. 3  Organ – a structure made up of different kinds of tissue. 4  E.g. 
A connective tissue disease is any disease that affects the parts of the body that connect the structures of the body together. Connective tissues are made up of two proteins: collagen and elastin. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin.
The lungs tissues are made up mainly of squamous epithelial tissue (called alveolar epithelium in the lungs). This type of tissue serves a critical function within the lungs b … ecause it allows the transfer and exchange of gases with little or no resistance. You can find simple squamous epithelial tissue in alveoli in lungs. The reason of it, is that simple squamous cells are very thin and they pass the gases through very easily. … As you know the alveoli's' role is to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide, thin walls help to do it quicker. 3 people found this useful.
You can find simple squamous epithelial tissue in alveoli in lungs. The reason of it, is that simple squamous cells are very thin and they pass the gases through very easily. As you know the alveoli's' role is to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide, thin walls help to do it quicker. 
The lungs are composed of various specialized cells and tissues -- not just simple tubes or pipes. Lining them are epithelial cells with specialized hairs, or cilia, which help trap particles and prevent infection from reaching the lungs. Beneath these cells is the basement membrane that forms a firm foundation for the epithelial cells, and under that is looser tissue full of mucous glands and other specialized cells such as eosinophils, mast cells, lymphocytes, and white blood cells called polys. Under this layer is smooth muscle.
The muscles of our lungs, stomach, and intestines are made of smooth muscle tissue. Cardiac muscle tissue is the third type of muscle tissue. Cardiac muscle tissue makes our hearts. Organs are groups of tissues that work together to do a job. Our skin is made of hair tissue, oil and sweat gland tissues, nerve tissue, blood tissue, and many other tissues to make the organ called skin. Our eyes are made of nerve tissue, blood vessel tissue, muscle tissue, lens tissue, pupil tissue, and many more types of tissue to make the organ called eyes.
Inside the Torso. The body's functions are conducted by organs. Each organ is a recognizable structure (for example, the heart, lungs, liver, eyes, and stomach) that performs specific functions. An organ is made of several types of tissue and therefore several types of cells (see Cells). For example, the heart (see Heart) contains muscle tissue that contracts to pump blood, fibrous tissue that makes up the heart valves, and special cells that maintain the rate and rhythm of heartbeats. Connective tissue is the tough, often fibrous tissue that binds the body's structures together and provides support and elasticity. It is present in almost every organ, forming a large part of skin, tendons, joints, ligaments, blood vessels, and muscles.
Our lungs fuel us with oxygen, the body's life-sustaining gas. They breathe in air, then extract the oxygen and pass it into the bloodstream, where it's rushed off to the tissues and organs that require it to function. Oxygen drives the process of respiration, which provides our cells with energy. Our two lungs are made up of a complex latticework of tubes, which are suspended, on either side of the heart, inside the chest cavity on a framework of elastic fibers. Air is drawn in via the mouth and the nose, the latter acting as an air filter by trapping dust particles on its hairs.
The essential tissue of the lung lung parenchyma is made up of clusters of spongy air sacs called lobules. There are about 130,000 primary lobules in each lung. Each lobule is approximately 3.5 millimeters in diameter and contains about 2,200 alveoli (air sacs and ducts). The lungs are the body's major organs of respiration. The two vital parts that make up the lungs are located on each side of the chest within the rib cage. They are separated by the heart and other contents of the mediastinumthe tissues and organs of the middle chest (e.g., the heart and large vessels, windpipe).