Shop for Circlip Pliers. Circlip pliers are used for installing and removing circlips if they need to be cleaned, replaced, or removed to allow access to other parts. They come in many variations, so individual tools will be suitable for use with different circlips. 
Shop for Circlip Pliers. A circlip is a type of retaining ring or fastener that takes the form of a flexible, open-ended ring, made from metal. Most of these retaining rings have a design of circlip pliers which can be used with them. However, some may need a different tool. There is a special e-clip installation tool which can be used with e-clips and most spiral retention rings can be installed manually.
Circlips are designed to be removed with special circlip pliers (snap ring tool US) which can be reassembled for internal or external clips, but in field expedient situations, a pair of needle-nose pliers (for internal clips) or leverage with a flat-headed screwdriver (internal or external) are sometimes used. When used to retain piston wrist pins (US) / gudgeon pins (UK), the clips are known as wrist pin clips or wrist pin retainers (US) or gudgeon pin clips (UK). The most commonly used circlip for this application is a simple spring steel circlip (snap ring US), or plain wire ring
A circlip is used as a fastener or retaining ring. You can get more information about this at the Wikipedia website. Once on the page, type Circlip into the search field a t … he top of the page and press enter to bring up the information. 
We design and manufacture a wide range of circlips. Used as a fastener, these products are semi-flexible metal ring that comes with open ends. We offer both the types of circlips that are internal and external. The different kinds of circlips offered by us can vary in terms of dimensions and type of raw materials used. We also manufacturer and supply Snap Ring and Horse Clamp.
Dimension Table. Internal Circlips has a large free diameter and gap width, consequently it fits more tightly into the groove and provides higher and more uniform thrust load capacity. Lugs with holes are provided for rapid fitting or removal with circlip pliers
This form of circlip often used in assemblies subjected to strong centrifugal forces, is also secure against high rotational speeds. Lugs with holes are provided for rapid fitting or removal with circlip pliers. 
Dimension Table. External Circlips The most common form of axially fitted circlips for bores with grooves. The circlip has a large free diameter and gap width, consequently it fits more tightly into the groove and provides higher and more uniform thrust load capacity. 
There are many variations of external and internal circlip design, as they are used for many applications in industry and machinery. Circlips can come in sizes from around a millimetre to over a metre, and some large machines, such as wind turbines, use circlips over three metres in diameter. Most of these retaining rings have a design of circlip pliers which can be used with them. However, some may need a different tool. There is a special e-clip installation tool which can be used with e-clips and most spiral retention rings can be installed manually.