1. Add a fold or directory of CD/DVD to the list by clicking the Add Folder button. It can be the drive name of CD/DVD if you want to copy the whole contents of the CD/DVD. If the directory structure of the CD/DVD is damaged, please try to select files on the CD/DVD to the list by clicking the Add Files button. You can also drag and drop folders or files from CD/DVD to the list. 2. Click the Browse button, change the Destination Directory if necessary. You may control the speed and quality of copying. The Normal item is recommended. 3. Click the Start button to copy files from CD/DVD to the destination directory. 4
AnyReader is great for copying files from scratched CD/DVD/Blu-ray(BD) or defective floppy/hard disks. Normally when your computer is unable to copy files from a damaged disk it will abort and delete the part of the file it has copied. 1 Your CD/DVD/Blu-ray(BD) drive can't read bad, scratched or trashed disks; 2  The standard copying method fails because of an error, such as (Bad CRC) A cyclic redundancy check (CRC) checksum error occurred,  Cannot read from the source file or disk, an unknown error or a bad disk;
To copy unreadable files from your CD, run the program, select the CD/DVD drive which is automatically listed, followed by the target directory where you want to store the files, and finally it gives you the option to select the individual files or folders to recover by ticking the checkboxes. To recovery your file from an unreadable CD, right click on the folder that you want to recover and select Extract. Download IsoBuster. 6. Dead Disk Doctor. Dead Disk Doctor was featured on another article but we’ve decided to retest and merge it into this article since it tries to do what is discussed on this article.
CD Recovery. CD Recovery is an extremely easy to use software that lets you copy maximum data from your scratched CD, DVD or any other bad media. It can copy single file or folder or it can copy multiple files and folders and even entire drive. All you need is to add files and folders to be copied. Then select the output folder. CD/DVD Data Recovery. It enables a user to recover corrupted files from CDs and DVDs quickly. recover corrupted files from CD’s and ... files and copies the ...
With those: 1  First, clean your drive with a cd/dvd cleaner. 2  Clean your disc with alcohol and/or window cleaner and SOFT tissue to make sure the disc is clean and free of removable dirt, marks, and grime. 3  It is PARAMOUNT that you clean the disc before you proceed. 1
you to copy corrupted files from ... : - copy from a damaged cd/dvd disk-copy. user rating. 0 votes 0 commented. 121 downloads. editor rating. 6 users. The aggregate score based on the app's rating, number of users, and a number of other parameters closely linked to user satisfaction. CD/DVD Data Recovery. It enables a user to recover corrupted files from CDs and DVDs quickly. recover corrupted files from CD’s and ... files and copies the ...
More about: copying damaged files dvd. riser. June 24, 2005 4:10:10 AM. media might be corrupt and not able to read period. CDs and DVDs have a shelf life of 7 to 10 years with a 25% failure rate (burned CDs) and around 2-4 years if you write on them with a permanent pen, ranging from 25-75% failure to read. I have the same problem with a CD I recently got..
Copy Cat can be helpful at times when you want to copy a CD or DVD which is scratched,when you want to copy data from harddisk area which is partially not readable, when you want to copy data from floppy which is currently not being copied by windows .So download and enjoy. 
How to copy data from damaged Disks. 1)Install the Unstoppable copier software. 2)Specify the source of the damaged disk and destination to copy and the program will copy the files ignoring the Windows Error message. 3)You can also pause and continue data recovery at your choice.