Second Continental Congress (1775-1781). The Second Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia's Independence Hall on May 10, 1775, after the Battles of Concord and Lexington had been fought. Although there was still great sentiment among the delegates to seek reconciliation with Great Britain, the movement towards independence could not be reversed. The Second Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia's Independence Hall on May 10, 1775. Like the First Continental Congress, delegates from each colony except Georgia initially attended the Second Continental Congress. Delegates from Georgia were seated on July 20, after Congress declared independence
The Path to the American Revolution ~~~~~ The Second Continental Congress. ~~~~~. Opened May 5, 1774 and met continuously through the war Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ~~~~~. When the First Continental Congress adjourned October 26, 1774, the delegates agreed to meet again on May 5, 1775. The Second Continental Congress met as agreed on May 5, 1775. This was after the battles at Lexington and Concord on April 19th. Sam Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, Patrick Henry, and George Washington were some of the delegates. 
When the Second Continental Congress came together on May 10, 1775 it was, in effect, a reconvening of the First Continental Congress. By the time the Second Continental Congress met, the American Revolutionary War had already started with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. The Congress was to take charge of the war effort.
It succeeded the First Continental Congress, which met between September 5, 1774 and October 26, 1774, also in Philadelphia. The second Congress managed the colonial war effort, and moved incrementally towards independence, adopting the United States Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776. By the time the Second Continental Congress met, the American Revolutionary War had already started with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. The Congress was to take charge of the war effort.
The Second Continental Congress was a convention of delegates from the Thirteen Colonies that started meeting in the summer of 1775, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, soon after warfare in the American Revolutionary War had begun. By the time the Second Continental Congress met, the American Revolutionary War had already started with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. The Congress was to take charge of the war effort.
(The Declaration of Independence was signed on July 4.). The Congress. The Second Continental Congress was one of the most important bodies in American history, a gathering which does not always receive the attention it deserves. It was the de facto government of the United States until 1781.
The Second Continental Congress convened on May 10, 1775, at Philadelphia's State House, unanimously passing the Declaration of Independence the following year on July 2, 1776, and publicly announcing the decision two days later. The Continental Congress was a convention of delegates called together from the Thirteen Colonies which became the governing body of the United States (USA) during the American Revolution. The Congress met from 1774 to 1789 in three incarnations.
Summary. The Second Continental Congress, which convened on May 10, 1775, was a continuation of the First Continental Congress, as many of the same delegates were present. The president at the outset was again Peyton Randolph of Virginia, later replaced by John Hancock of Massachusetts, opne of the new delegates. The Second Continental Congress was one of the most important bodies in American history, a gathering which does not always receive the attention it deserves. It was the de facto government of the United States until 1781.
Answers. Best Answer: Before adjourning on October 26, 1774, the First Continental Congress summoned a second Congress to assemble in Philadelphia on May 10, 1775, if the king failed to respond favorably to its petition. 