Persian Gulf War Law & Legal Definition. According to 38 USCS § 101, persian gulf war means the period beginning on August 2, 1990, and ending on the date thereafter prescribed by Presidential proclamation or by law. 
Full Definition of GULF WAR SYNDROME. : a syndrome of uncertain cause including fatigue, joint pain, memory loss, skin rash, and headache that has been reported in veterans of the war fought in the Persian Gulf in 1991. See Gulf War syndrome defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT
Medical Definition of GULF WAR SYNDROME. : a syndrome of uncertain cause including fatigue, joint pain, memory loss, skin rash, and headache that has been reported in veterans of the war fought in the Persian Gulf in 1991. See Gulf War syndrome defined for English-language learners.
Definition. Gulf War syndrome describes a wide spectrum of illnesses and symptoms ranging from asthma to sexual dysfunction that have been reported by U.S. and U.S. allied soldiers who served in the Persian Gulf War in 1990–1991. Gulf War syndrome. n. A medical condition affecting some veterans of the Gulf War, characterized by fatigue, headache, joint pain, skin rashes, nausea, and respiratory disorders, and attributed to reactions to drugs and vaccines, infectious diseases, or exposure to chemicals, radiation, and smoke from oil fires.
The war is also known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf War, First Gulf War, Gulf War I, Kuwait War, First Iraq War, or Iraq War before the term Iraq War became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War (also referred to in the U.S. as  Operation Iraqi Freedom ). 
Gulf War. noun. A war that began in 1990 when Iraq invaded Kuwait and ended in 1991 when a coalition of countries led by the United States expelled the Iraqi army from Kuwait and destroyed much of Iraq's military capability.
n. A war that began in 1990 when Iraq invaded Kuwait and ended in 1991 when a coalition of countries led by the United States expelled the Iraqi army from Kuwait and destroyed much of Iraq's military capability. Also called Persian Gulf War. Gulf War-a war fought between Iraq and a coalition led by the United States that freed Kuwait from Iraqi invaders; 1990-1991. Persian Gulf War. Operation Desert Storm-the United States and its allies defeated Iraq in a ground war that lasted 100 hours (1991)
1. Persian Gulf War-a war fought between Iraq and a coalition led by the United States that freed Kuwait from Iraqi invaders; 1990-1991. Gulf War. Operation Desert Storm-the United States and its allies defeated Iraq in a ground war that lasted 100 hours (1991). 1  Facebook