Our chain drive garage door openers can open up to 10 feet high with the proper extension kit. We have a kit for an 8 foot door and we have a rail assembly for 10 foot high doors. Both of these are optional equipment. Our screw drive and belt drive garage door openers can be extended to open an 8 foot high door.
This series of LiftMaster Garage Door Opener Owners Manuals for residential garage door openers include chapters covering assembly, installation, adjustment, operation, maintenance, programming, repair parts, accessories, and warranty. Most of these manuals also include a troubleshooting guide.
The force adjustments are usually located on the rear of the garage door opener and/or under one of the light lenses, if your opener has two lights. If you have lights on the side of your opener, the force adjustment will be located under the right light lens.
When the beam is broken, the garage door opener will not close the garage door. You can check several things to correct the problem. First, use the wall button to open the garage door to a fully opened position. Now, wipe any debris, moisture, or fingerprints off of the lenses located on both of the safety sensors.
Typically, partial opening problems call for adjustments to your LiftMaster garage door opener. The travel limit, which determines the point at which the door stops moving up or down, is one of the parameters you can adjust.
Save. There are two types of adjustable down limit on Liftmaster garage openers: the travel distance limit setting and the downward force limit setting. Adjusting these dials alters how far the garage door travels while closing and how much force in kilograms the motor uses.
Published on Sep 23, 2014. This video gives you assistance, and how to adjust info for the travel limits on, Liftmaster, Chamberlain and Craftsman brand garage door openers with the manual adjustment screw. Including belt drive, chain drive and screw drive models all have the same instruction. For close and open adjustments.