Spanish, Catalan, and Jewish (Sephardic): habitational name from any of numerous places called Aguilar, from Latin aquilare ‘haunt of eagles’ (a derivative of aquila ‘eagle’), for example Aguilar de Campo in Palencia, Aguilar de la Frontera in Cordoba, córdoba And aguilar De segarra In. catalonia
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Aguilar families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
AGUILAR Surname Meaning & Origin: One who came from any of numerous places called Aguilar or Aguilas, from the Latin aquilare, meaning haunt of eagles.. Those of Spanish origin, for example, often come from the city of Aguilar in Spain, near Cordoba. córdoba
Recorded in the spelling forms of Aguilar, Aguilera, and Aguiar, this surname is usually Spanish, but may also be Portuguese and Ashkenasic. It is habitational, and describes a person who originally came from a place known as 'the eagles lair', being a developed spelling of the Roman (Latin) 'aquilaria'.
Spanish, Catalan, and Jewish (Sephardic): habitational name from any of numerous places called Aguilar, from Latin aquilare ‘haunt of eagles’ (a derivative of aquila ‘eagle’), for example Aguilar de Campo in Palencia, Aguilar de la Frontera in Cordoba, córdoba And aguilar De segarra In. CATALONIA, DK. rs
The Aguilar Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Aguilar Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons.
AGUILAR Surname Mailing List. Free mailing list for researchers of the Aguilar surname and its variations includes subscription details and a searchable archives of past messages. Surname Finder-AGUILAR Genealogy & Family Resources. Find links to free and commercial resources for the Aguilar surname.