The prevailing wage is defined as the hourly wage and the usual benefits and overtime paid to the majority of workers, laborers, and mechanics within a particular geographic area. 
Trade and public work wages paid to the majority of workers in a specific area. The prevailing wage is usually an hourly wage and determines overtime pay as well as benefits for laborers in that field. Overall, employment in the town was relatively steady, but the prevailing wage was lower than average and a source of complaint for many workers. 9 people found this helpful. I wondered what the prevailing wage would be at the job I took because I would not work for no money again. 7
Prevailing wage may include both wages, benefits, and other payments such as apprenticeship and industry promotion. It encompasses the compensation for a worker given for performed labor. The Federal Davis-Bacon Act and Related Amendments pertain to federally funded projects. Supporters suggest that prevailing wage laws seek to prevent public construction projects from destabilizing a local construction industry and to advance other priorities such as workforce development, green building, and greenhouse gas reduction.
Prevailing wage. In government contracting, a prevailing wage is defined as the hourly wage, usual benefits and overtime, paid to the majority of workers, laborers, and mechanics within a particular area. The goal is that, with everyone playing on a level field, contractors seek to maximize their workers' output and their own ability to manage work better than their competition. In practice, a construction project will have most of the same workers on the job whether it is a prevailing wage job or not.
Prevailing wages is a term used in a legislative effort to provideorganized labor a fair chance to bid for government contracts. Federal law requires all employers engaged in the performance of federal contracts to pay prevailing wages to their workers. This ensures that nonunion employers cannot gain an unfair bidding advantage by paying wages far below the union rate and passing the savings on to the government in lower bid
Prevailing Wage is defined as the hourly wage, usual benefits and overtime, paid in the largest city in each county, to the majority of workers, laborers, and mechanics. Prevailing wage rates are published the first business day in August and in February and take effect 30 days after publication. The publications are necessary to adjust the rates based on rate surveys, changes to the minimum wages, and changes to rates that are based on a union majority.
Prevailing wages are established by regulatory agencies for each trade and occupation employed in the performance of public work, as well as by State Departments of Labor or their equivalents. Prevailing wages were first established shortly after the Civil War when Congress passed the National Eight Hour Day law. Supporters suggest that prevailing wage laws seek to prevent public construction projects from destabilizing a local construction industry and to advance other priorities such as workforce development, green building, and greenhouse gas reduction.
Prevailing Wage. It is the wage construction and maintenance contractors must pay their employees for work on projects paid for by public funds, such as a state office building or county roads. L&I is responsible for establishing these wages.
A prevailing wage is a rate of pay determined by the U.S. Department of Labor based upon the particular geographic area for a given class of labor and type of project. Federal law requires all employers engaged in the performance of federal contracts to pay prevailing wages to their workers.
A. The prevailing wage rate is the basic hourly rate paid on public works projects to a majority of workers engaged in a particular craft, classification or type of work within the locality and in the nearest labor market area (if a majority of such workers are paid at a single rate). 