General Guidelines. Eat your meal at least three hours before the start of the game. It takes a while for your food to digest, so you need to leave enough time between eating and playing, according to the University of Illinois. This meal should contain between 500 and 1,000 calories, advises dietitian Cynthia Proscia. Skipping your pre-game meal, or gorging on junk food and empty calories right before an important competition, is a cardinal sin for any athlete. What you eat before a game has a significant impact on your performance.
Football players burn off an immense number of calories during practices and games. Bonci recommends players consume three meals a day along with snacks before and after practices and games. Each meal should look like a peace sign, with one-third of the plate devoted to protein, one-third to complex carbohydrates and one-third to fruits and vegetables. Playing football requires large amounts of energy which must quickly be replenished by eating plenty of high-quality food. Photo Credit William Giakas/iStock/Getty Images. Because football is one of the most grueling, calorie-consuming sports, proper nutrition is crucial to optimal athletic performance.
Click Here to see The Complete List of What Football Players Eat Before Games Three hours before the game, the team chef will put out a lavish spread, and the team will go to town. Click Here to see The Complete List of What Football Players Eat Before Games The Dallas Cowboys’ wide receiver/ return specialist fills his plate up with three choices that don’t really go together: an omelette, spaghetti, and broccoli.
Elements. Prepare a pregame snack of carbohydrates, such as a bagel with peanut butter, oatmeal, a banana, yogurt or similar food. These can accompany a pasta lunch before an afternoon game or an oatmeal and raisins breakfast, according to Averbuch and Clark. A granola bar or half a sandwich can also work. For example, “Food Guide for Soccer” recommends eating trail mix, an apple and cheese sticks or a chicken dinner with rice and vegetables. Have your first snack within the first half-hour after the game and then continue every two hours for the next four to six hours.
Recovery options after the game need to include carbohydrates to replace depleted energy stores and protein to rebuild weary muscles. For example, “Food Guide for Soccer” recommends eating trail mix, an apple and cheese sticks or a chicken dinner with rice and vegetables. Have your first snack within the first half-hour after the game and then continue every two hours for the next four to six hours.
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. A football game is a grueling test of power, strength and stamina. A game lasts for 48 to 60 minutes, but most plays require quick bursts of high-intensity effort. Proper pre-game nutrition can provide you with the energy you need to take on the challenges of game day. Knowing what, how much and when you should eat can give you an edge during competition. Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are the most important nutrient you can consume to provide energy before a football game. Common carbohydrate foods include pasta, potatoes, cereals and bagels.
Click Here to see The Complete List of What Football Players Eat Before Games The center for the Detroit Lions takes a protein-heavy route before each game, eating chicken breast and an egg white omelette. Photo Credit: iStockphoto/Thinkstock. Click Here to see The Complete List of What Football Players Eat Before Games The Dallas Cowboys’ wide receiver/ return specialist fills his plate up with three choices that don’t really go together: an omelette, spaghetti, and broccoli.
A great number of nutritionists have begun to recommend football players eat protein at each and every meal, particularly right before a big game. Additionally, those athletes who are injured in some way should try to eat up to five servings of salmon, lean turkey, or egg whites per day. 
Protein can come from both animal and vegetable sources, including fish, meat, chicken, eggs, dairy products, nuts, seeds, legumes and lentils, the KidsHealth website advises. After playing football, players may need protein foods with higher fat content — steak, salmon, roast beef and hamburgers, for example. Salmon, with its high content of tissue-repairing omega-3 fatty acids, is a strong choice for a post-game meal. Playing football requires large amounts of energy which must quickly be replenished by eating plenty of high-quality food. Photo Credit William Giakas/iStock/Getty Images. Because football is one of the most grueling, calorie-consuming sports, proper nutrition is crucial to optimal athletic performance.