I want to be an advanced heavy vehicle driver. The dynamics of large heavy vehicles dictates a more rigid disciplined driving style and an adherence to all road signs that are readily available for all motorists to interpret along the roadside. The Police and Roadcraft System of Car Control forms the basis for the standards applied by an advanced driver. This is described by the principles set down in the IAM's own manual ‘How to be an Advanced Driver’.
The Edinburgh & District Group of Advanced Motorists is one of over 200 local groups affiliated with the Institute Of Advanced Motorists. As a group we offer advice and assistance for car drivers to help them reach the level of driving ability required to pass the Institute's advanced driving car test. Skill For Life. Skill For Life is the IAM membership option, for a one off payment of 139.00 - includes everything you need to pass your Advanced Driving Test and become a full Member of the IAM.
Welcome to the website of Nottingham Advanced Drivers-the Nottingham Group of the Institute of Advanced Motorists (IAM). We were formed in January 2014 from the merger of the two previous Nottingham IAM groups: Nottingham Trent and Nottingham Number One. If you came here looking for motorcycle training, then you should visit the Nottingham Advanced Motocyclists site. The objective of everyone in the IAM is to make you a safer driver. This does not depend on taking the test.
In this video from 2010, Peter Rodger, Institute of Advanced Motorists Chief Examiner takes Christine Bleakley and Adrian Chiles through the new driving test. See how they get on! Driver First Assist (DFA) is a not-for-profit organisation aiming to reduce road deaths by training professional drivers to manage the scene and provide life-saving first aid in the gap between the... Institute of Advanced Motorists, IAM uploaded a video 1 year ago.
Welcome. Welcome to the Ipswich & Suffolk Advanced Motorists. Our main aims are to promote and advance road safety through improving the driving standards of the motoring public. We achieve this by preparing drivers for the Institute of Advanced Motorists (IAM) Advanced Driving Test
Before we investigate advanced driving options, it's important to acknowledge that insurance premium discounts are certainly not the biggest benefit of signing up for an advanced course. In many cases there are no premium discounts at all and, if there are savings, they may not outweigh the cost of the course. If you use Gocompare.com's car insurance comparison service you'll be asked whether you have a valid Institute of Advanced Motorists (IAM) driving certificate. 
Based on the Roadcraft system of car control used in Home Office-approved police driving schools, the £139 Institute of Advanced Motorists test is designed to make up for some of the deficiencies in the basic driving test. And research shows advanced drivers are two thirds less likely to have an accident. 
The Institute of Advanced Motorists (IAM) is a charity based in the United Kingdom and serving nine countries, whose objective is to improve car driving and motorcycle riding standards, and so enhance road safety, by using the British police's system of car and motorcycle control commonly known as the System. The Institute of Advanced Motorists Limited was incorporated on 10 March 1956 as a company limited by guarantee. A separate Institute of Advanced Motorcyclists  was registered in 2006, although it rarely or never features in IAM publications.
Research has shown that IAM training increases a wide range of driving skills, including speed, safe distances, gear changing and cornering. The IAM was formed in 1956 and has more than 100,000 members, all of whom have taken and passed an advanced test in a car, commercial vehicle or on a motorcycle. The Institute of Advanced Motorists Limited was incorporated on 10 March 1956 as a company limited by guarantee. A separate Institute of Advanced Motorcyclists  was registered in 2006, although it rarely or never features in IAM publications.