Sickle cell anemia is a genetic disease with severe symptoms, including pain and anemia. The disease is caused by a mutated version of the gene that helps make hemoglobin  a protein that carries oxygen in red blood cells. People with two copies of the sickle cell gene have the disease.
1. Single gene disorders: disorders caused by defects in one particular gene, often with simple and predictable inheritance patterns. 1  Dominant diseases: single gene disorders that occur when an individual has one altered copy of the relevant gene and one healthy copy. 2  For example, Huntington’s disease. 3. Multifactorial disorders (complex diseases): disorders caused by changes in multiple genes, often in a complex interaction with environmental and lifestyle factors such as diet or cigarette smoke.
A genetic disorder is a disease that is caused by a change, or mutation, in an individual’s DNA sequence. 3. Multifactorial disorders (complex diseases): disorders caused by changes in multiple genes, often in a complex interaction with environmental and lifestyle factors such as diet or cigarette smoke.
A single-gene disorder is the result of a single mutated gene. Over 4000 human diseases are caused by single-gene defects. Single-gene disorders can be passed on to subsequent generations in several ways. Genomic imprinting and uniparental disomy, however, may affect inheritance patterns. A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital). Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions.
User: Which of the following is the most common symptom of hypertension? A. shortness of breath B. tightness in the chest C. headaches D. none of the aboveUser: Which of the following diseases is caused by a single mutated gene? A. sickle cell anemia B. diabetes C. cancer D. Turner syndromeWeegy: A. sickle cell anemia is a disease caused by a single mutated gene. Johnny_English|Points 43|User: Which of the following is NOT a true statement about noncommunicable diseases? A. Noncommunicable diseases are responsible for many deaths. 
Researchers are learning that nearly all conditions and diseases have a genetic component. Some disorders, such as sickle cell disease and cystic fibrosis, are caused by mutations in a single gene. The causes of many other disorders, however, are much more complex. Common medical problems such as heart disease, diabetes, and obesity do not have a single genetic cause—they are likely associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. Conditions caused by many contributing factors are called complex or multifactorial disorders.
But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the mutation of a single gene. Most inherited genetic diseases are recessive, which means that a person must inherit two copies of the mutated gene to inherit a disorder. This is one reason that marriage between close relatives is discouraged; two genetically similar adults are more likely to give a child two copies of a defective gene.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
According to the National Human Genome Institute, most all disease have some sort of genetic factor. These disorders can be caused by a mutation in a single gene, multiple gene mutations, combined gene mutation and environmental factors, or by chromosome mutation or damage. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation.