Introduction. If a person's skin or lips turn blue, it's usually caused by low blood oxygen levels or poor circulation. It can be a sign of a serious problem, so it's important to seek medical advice.
You may have noticed that your lips turn purple or blue in the cold, or you may have seen a baby, an elderly person or someone else with bluish or purplish lips. In many cases, this type is caused by cyanosis, which is a discoloration of a part of the body resulting from a lack of oxygen in the blood. 
Tips for Concerned Parents. If you are concerned about a blue tinge to your baby's skin, check his entire body. An off-and-on blue cast to the hands and feet, with pink skin elsewhere, is not a sign of a problem, but rather just a little bit of immaturity of the circulatory system, which will go away over time. When to Worry About Baby's Blue Skin. If there is a bluish cast over the entire body, the blood may be lacking sufficient oxygen. Blue primarily around the lips may also indicate low blood oxygen.
Blue lips occur when the skin on the lips takes on a bluish tint or color. This generally is due to either a lack of oxygen in the blood or to extremely cold temperatures. When the skin becomes a bluish color, the symptom is called cyanosis. Most commonly, blue lips are caused by a lack of oxygen in the blood. This may happen when you are at high altitude or if you are choking, or it may be due to chronic underlying conditions such as lung diseases or chronic heart defects.
Causes of blue lips in children. A child's lips should be nice and pink. In fact, you usually don't want to see any part of a child's face or body turn purple or blue, which can indicate cyanosis. Cyanosis is a sign that a child doesn't have enough oxygen in her blood. While often caused by congenital heart defects, it can also be caused by septic shock, seizures or lung issues such as pneumonia, asthma or croup. Not all cyanosis is necessarily bad, though. Newborns and young infants can normally have acrocyanosis — blue lips and a bluish discoloration of their hands and feet.
These are cyanosis symptoms. Cyanosis is a health condition causing bluish discoloration of your skin or mucous membranes. The blue color is a sign that oxygen is lacking in your blood. Cyanosis is noticed by blue lips, nails, toes and fingers. Although oxygen deficient blood is not blue, it is not as bright red as blood drenched in oxygen. As such, this low oxygen level makes your lips, fingers, toes and nails appear blue. Most cases of cyanosis is a symptom for heart disease, lung disease or some type of terminal event, like cardiac arrest or heart attack.
In this article. Parents should investigate any bluish color they spot on their baby's skin. Blue skin means the underlying blood has a blue cast rather than the nice pink color of blood with lots of oxygen in it. Fortunately, in most cases it's quite normal and harmless as long as it's temporary. When to Worry About Baby's Blue Skin. If there is a bluish cast over the entire body, the blood may be lacking sufficient oxygen. Blue primarily around the lips may also indicate low blood oxygen.
Cyanosis that affects the skin generally and/or lips. When all the skin and/or lips have a blue tinge, it's known as central cyanosis and is usually a sign of low levels of oxygen in the blood. Common causes for central cyanosis are listed below. A problem with the lungs: If a person's skin or lips turn blue, it's usually caused by low blood oxygen levels or poor circulation. It can be a sign of a serious problem, so it's important to seek medical advice.
Cyanosis. admin | | 0 Comments. Cyanosis occurs when the blood lacks oxygen causing the skin to appear bluish or purplish. This condition could involve the lips, gums, tongue, nail beds, fingers, toes and mucous membrane