Morphea, also known as localized scleroderma, is a rare disorder characterized by excessive collagen deposition leading to thickening of the skin, subcutaneous tissues, or both. It is classified into plaque, generalized, linear, and deep subtypes.
Morphea, also known as localized scleroderma, is a condition which causes hardening and discoloration of the skin. It is thought to be isolated to the skin without internal organ involvement as seen in systemic sclerosis (commonly known as scleroderma).
morphea. a type of localized scleroderma in which connective tissue replaces the skin and sometimes subcutaneous tissues, with formation of ivory white or pink patches, bands, or lines that are sometimes bordered by a purple areola.
Morphoea (US spelling is morphea) is an uncommon persistent condition in which there are areas of thickened skin, and occasionally underlying tissues including bone. It is also known as localised scleroderma.
Frontoparietal linear morphea, called en coup de sabre, is characterized by a linear, atrophic depression affecting the frontoparietal aspect of the face and scalp, suggestive of a stroke from a sword, as shown in the image below. Paramedian lesions are more common than median lesions.
Morphea is localized scleroderma confined to the skin. It most commonly affects the trunk but also occurs on the face and extremities. The four clinical variants include plaque-type morphea, generalized morphea, linear morphea (en coupe de sabre), and pansclerotic morphea of children (morphea profunda).
1 Morphea: A term used to describe a variety of localized asymmetrical SKIN thickening that is similar to those of SYSTEMIC SCLERODERMA but without the disease features in the multiple internal organs and BLOOD VESSELS. 2  Lesions may be characterized as patches or plaques (morphea), bands (linear), or nodules.
Morphea, also known as localized scleroderma, is a disorder characterized by excessive collagen deposition leading to thickening of the dermis, subcutaneous tissues, or both.