When selecting members of your dissertation committee, it is important to consider a wide range of factors. Here are five things to consider before agreeing to a new committee member: 1. If you are fortunate enough to be able to select your dissertation committee members, you have the opportunity to make one of graduate school’s most difficult processes much easier and enjoyable.
Whenever you start to think seriously about your dissertation topic (for a few students this is as early as the first year, but the second or third year is far more common), you will also need to start thinking about choosing a dissertation chair (or in a few cases, chairs) and other members of the committee. S/he will see you through graduate school, into your first (and sometimes subsequent jobs), provide advice about publishing your first book, and write recommendations for you for a very long time. You should not, therefore, choose a thesis advisor on the basis of who is on leave, or not, in a given year. b.
Choosing Your Committee. Each student is responsible for putting together his or her own Special Committee, which is composed of a faculty member from your major field who will serve as your chair and additional members from any field or discipline in the University-provided they are a member of the Graduate Faculty. Your Special Committee chair must be from your graduate field. At a minimum, master's students must select one faculty member to represent their major subject (the chair) and a second member to represent their minor subject.
12. Only one thing I would add to this excellent answer: At least one committee member should take you out of your professional comfort zone. Do not choose committee members only from your subfield, your department, or even your university. Adviser/Committee member 1: 1  I have a fantastic adviser who always stands by me and supports my work. 2  He essentially fights for me if things go awry. 3  He is also the PI of the project I am working on so my successful graduation and publications do interest him.
Choosing a dissertation chair can be difficult if you do not consider the personality traits of your choices. Remember, it is better to choose someone with whom you work well than someone whose research is closest to your own. These signs include too many publications, too many committee memberships, and a long list of work-in-progress manuscripts. If you choose an Overachiever as your dissertation chair, be prepared for extended time in a program and weeks or months between meetings with your chair.
4. Before you select a dissertation committee member, you need to meet with them to discuss your project and your expectations. Ask the potential committee member in a straightforward manner if they are interested, if they can meet your expectations, and if they can meet your desired timeline. If you are fortunate enough to be able to select your dissertation committee members, you have the opportunity to make one of graduate school’s most difficult processes much easier and enjoyable.
If you are scared of statistics, try to find a dissertation committee member that can explain your statistics to you in a manner you can understand. If you are not familiar with statistics, you will need to ask for assistance in choosing the appropriate tests. If you are fortunate enough to be able to select your dissertation committee members, you have the opportunity to make one of graduate school’s most difficult processes much easier and enjoyable.
Choosing a Special Committee Chair (Code, VI.B.4). The faculty member who represents your major subject is considered the chair of your Special Committee. Your chair will supervise your thesis or dissertation work and will typically provide the facilities and supervision necessary to conduct your research. Your Special Committee chair must be from your graduate field. At a minimum, master's students must select one faculty member to represent their major subject (the chair) and a second member to represent their minor subject.
It happens-and this kind of situation can slow down your dissertation and keep you in grad school longer than you want or deserve to be. Learn From Other Students. Seek input from other students as to how they secured a committee, what kinds of things they looked for, and their experience with particular faculty. Carefully! Ask Your Advisor. Speak with your advisor/mentor to learn about how students in your program go about assembling a committee. If you do not yet have an advisor, that's your first step -- locating someone with whom to work. Once you have a mentor/advisor, he or she can tell you about the local norms.