1 If you accidentally delete a customer, open the Edit menu. 2  Click Undo Delete Customer:Job.. 3  To see customers that you've previously hidden, open the customer list and click View.. 4  Click All Customers..
If a customer becomes inactive, QuickBooks allows you to remove his name from the list. Hiding the name lets you keep the customer on file, while deleting the name permanently removes the customer from QuickBooks. You can also merge similar or duplicate names to clean up the list. Step 1.
Step 2. Click Customers & Jobs on the left side of the window. Related Reading: How to Duplicate a Customer in QuickBooks. Step 3. Double-click the name of the customer you want to hide. Step 4. Click Customer is Inactive in the resulting Edit window.
1 To do so, simply highlight the name in your customer list and either right click and choose Delete Customer:Job or click Edit in the menu bar and choose Delete Customer: Job.
1 If that is the case, QuickBooks will NOT allow you to delete the customer from your customer list. 2  If you try to delete one in this scenario, you will see a screen that looks like this: 3  Note the option to Make Inactive on this screen. 4  This is the choice you will want to make.
1 If that is the case, QuickBooks will allow you to delete the customer entry. 2  To do so, simply highlight the name in your customer list and either right click and choose Delete Customer:Job or click Edit in the menu bar and choose Delete Customer: Job.
How to Remove a Customer From QuickBooks. QuickBooks, developed by Intuit, helps your business keep track of expenses, transactions and customer lists. In QuickBooks, customer lists enable you to organize and view important information, such as name, address and account balance.
Hide a Customer from View. Right-click the customer in the Customer Center menu. Click Make Customer: Inactive to hide the customer and transactions from the list. Click the View list and choose All Customers to view hidden customers. Show the inactive customer by clicking the X beside the customer's name.