Marshalls Positions and Salary Information. While the minimum age for working at Marshalls stands at 16 years old, management positions usually require applicants to stand at least 18 years old with a minimum of three years of retail management experience. Merchandise associates typically earn an hourly wage up to $9.00. Marshalls, a subsidiary of TJX Companies, functions as an off-price department store, with over 750 stores operating in around 40 states. Offering customers brand names for less through purchasing closeouts at below-market prices, the retailer passes savings on to the consumer
Managers also hire, train, and evaluate entry-level workers. Marshalls attaches multiple hiring requirements to management positions. Applicants must stand at least 18 years of age and have a high school diploma. Previous retail management experience also proves necessary in securing employment. Merchandise associates typically earn an hourly wage up to $9.00. Marshalls, a subsidiary of TJX Companies, functions as an off-price department store, with over 750 stores operating in around 40 states. Offering customers brand names for less through purchasing closeouts at below-market prices, the retailer passes savings on to the consumer
About Marshalls. Marshalls is a chain of American department stores which has over 750 conventional stores in 42 states and Puerto Rico. Marshalls is U.S.’s second largest off-price family apparel and home fashion retailer
This Site Might Help You. RE: What is the youngest age that they will hire at a t.j. maxx or marshalls store? I am trying to get a job and I would rather work there than McDonald&#39;s or something like that and I think I might be too young. Source(s): youngest age hire maxx marshalls store: https://bitly.im/cWX0w. Raymond · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.
RE: what clothing stores hire 16 year olds? I&#39;m 16 years old and i&#39;m looking for a new job. Right now I work at JCPenney so i have experience in retail and i want to work at another clothing store, but i know that many of them don&#39;t hire under 18. Does anyone know for sure of any stores that hire at 16? Please don&#39;t just...
Usually 16 Years Old. Marshalls sets the minimum hiring age for entry-level store jobs at sixteen years old. In some states, workers under the age of eighteen may need to follow limits on the number of hours and days worked in a week. State laws may also dictate a young employee’s ability to work evening shifts. Aside from an age requirement, Marshalls sets few other hiring restrictions for entry-level positions. The retailer regularly hires individuals still attending school, so applicants do not need to possess high school diplomas or GEDs in order to earn employment from the department store chain.
Jobs for teens at Marshalls, a chain of American department stores in 42 states and Puerto Rico. Minimum age to apply is 16 years old. Apply job as Merchandise Associate. - Sponsored Links-. Marshalls is a chain of American department stores which has over 750 conventional stores in 42 states and Puerto Rico. Marshalls is U.S.’s second largest off-price family apparel and home fashion retailer