What happens at the actual birth. During the second stage, the baby’s head moves down the vagina until it can be seen. When the head is almost ready to come out, the midwife will ask you to stop pushing and to do a couple of quick short breaths, blowing out through your mouth. The first stage of labour – dilation. The cervix needs to open about 10cm for a baby to pass through. This is what's called being fully dilated. Contractions at the start of labour help to soften the cervix, so that it gradually opens.
A lot happens to your newborn right after delivery. Your baby will likely get a shot of vitamin K, which will help the blood clot, and she’ll have ointment containing the antibiotic erythromycin applied to her eyes to prevent blindness caused by certain bacteria that may be present in the birth canal. Depending on how long you’re at the hospital before you give birth, you may interact with many different people. Most hospitals have eight-or 12-hour shifts, so if you’re there for 36 hours, you might deal with three different nurses and three different doctors before the baby arrives.
1 The first stage, when your contractions make your cervix gradually open up (dilate). 2  This is usually the longest stage. 3  The second stage of labour is when your cervix is fully open and you give birth. This is the part of labour where you help your baby move through your vagina by pushing with your contractions. The third stage of labour is after the birth, when your womb contracts and causes the placenta to come out through the vagina. The first stage of labour – dilation. The cervix needs to open about 10cm for a baby to pass through. This is what's called being fully dilated. Contractions at the start of labour help to soften the cervix, so that it gradually opens.
Sorry, Mom, but those darned contractions last well after giving birth. Once the baby arrives, your uterus starts to tighten as it returns to its pre-pregnancy size and location. That means shrinking from more than two pounds to about two ounces and making its way back down into the pelvis. The day your baby arrives will be among the happiest of your life, but it's also normal to experience emotional highs and lows in the first days or weeks
3) What happens in the new birth is not the improvement of your old human nature but the creation of a new human nature—a nature that is really you, and is forgiven and cleansed; and a nature that is really new, and is being formed by the indwelling Spirit of God. Let’s take those one at a time. 1) What happens in the new birth is not getting new religion but getting new life. 2) What happens in the new birth is not merely affirming the supernatural in Jesus but experiencing the supernatural in yourself.
By the end of this stage your cervix will be fully dilated, and open to about 10cm (3.9in) in diameter. During the second stage of labour, you will push your baby down your vagina (the birth canal) and meet him or her for the first time. You'll feel the pressure of your baby's head low down in your pelvis, and with each contraction, may have two or three strong urges to bear down. 
If you don't get a period for several months, you may have what's known as post-pill amenorrhea. The pill prevents your body from making hormones involved in ovulation and menstruation. When you stop taking the pill, it can take some time for your body to return to normal production of these hormones. Typically, your period should start again within three months after you stop taking the pill. But some women, especially those who took the pill to regulate their menstrual cycles, may not have a period for many months.
There are three stages to labour: The first stage, when your contractions make your cervix gradually open up (dilate). This is usually the longest stage. The second stage of labour is when your cervix is fully open and you give birth. This is the part of labour where you help your baby move through your vagina by pushing with your contractions. The third stage of labour is after the birth, when your womb contracts and causes the placenta to come out through the vagina. The first stage of labour – dilation. The cervix needs to open about 10cm for a baby to pass through. This is what's called being fully dilated. Contractions at the start of labour help to soften the cervix, so that it gradually opens.
Donit donít worry, though you will have more contractions and they will end in the birth of your. Baby: 1  Length some women skip this little rest period altogether and have the urge to push. 2  Immediately some women have up to 30 minutes before they feel the urge to.  push 