For example, becoming a school psychologist can take a little as two years of graduate-level education, and only requires a master’s degree. On the other hand, if you want to become a child psychologist you will need to earn a doctorate degree, which can require up to seven additional years of psychologist schooling.
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker.
But here is a general timeline. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker.
Identification. The first step required to become a psychologist is obtaining a bachelor's degree with a major or minor in psychology or a related field such as social work, or at a minimum completing several courses in psychology.
Save. To become a psychologist, you'll need at least a master's and usually a doctoral degree, depending on the career goals. A few different avenues lead to a career in psychology, including a stand-alone master's degree, a master's completion and then later a doctorate, or a program combining the two.
To determine how long it will take you to become a psychologist, look into the specifics of the career you are interested in. As requirements vary by state, you’ll want to research your state’s licensing requirements before applying to any graduate program.
1 Clinical Psychologist: Doctorate Degree in Psychology (4 to 7 years of graduate school). 2  Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 3  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended.
To become a psychologist, you'll need at least a master's and usually a doctoral degree, depending on the career goals.
1 Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended. 2  Social Worker: Bachelor’s Degree (4 to 5 years of undergraduate school). 3  Licensed Counselor: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of 
1 Industrial-Organizational Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school). 2  Forensic Psychologist: Master’s Degree (2 to 3 years of graduate school); a doctoral degree is recommended.