A true mixed venous sample (called SvO2) is drawn from the tip of the pulmonary artery catheter, and includes all of the venous blood returning from the head and arms (via superior vena cava), the gut and lower extremities (via the inferior vena cava) and the coronary veins (via the coronary sinus). Tissues begin to remove or extract a higher percentage of oxygen from the arterial blood. This results in a reduced amount of oxygen remaining in the blood as it returns to the right side of the heart (decreased SvO 2).
Septic shock follows the same principle. The oxygen content of the pulmonary arterial circulation is what's called mixed venous oxygen content as you have mixed the systemic and heart venous blood in the pulmonary trunk. Simple rearrangement of the Fick principle yields this equation; As the mixed venous content is dependent on all the terms on the right side of equation it can provide a meaningful assessment of cardiac output or changes in cardiac output only if O2 up take and arterial content remain nearly constant. This does not happen in septic shock.
blood that is composed of the venous blood from the heart and all systemic tissues in proportion to their venous returns. In the absence of abnormalities, mixed venous blood is present in the main pulmonary artery. the blood flowing into the right side of the heart and thence out to the lungs in the pulmonary artery, which is a mixture of venous blood from the whole of the systemic circulation (i.e. from all parts of the body except the lungs).
For a normal adult male the oxygen content of arterial blood can be calculated: Given arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) = 100%, Hb = 15 g/100 ml and arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) = 13.3 kPa, then the oxygen content of arterial blood (CaO2) is: CaO2 = 20.1 +0.3 = 20.4 ml/100 ml. Similarly the oxygen content of mixed venous blood can be calculated. 
1 relationship between PO2 and O2 content in venous blood. 2  relationship between mixed venous O2 content, arterial O2 content, oxygen consumption, and cardiac output. 3  A right shift of Hb O2 curve increases mixed venous PO2. Mixed venous blood. Mixed venous blood-mixture of all the systemic venous blood draining from all the tissue capillary beds of the body, excluding shunted blood (i.e. central or peripheral shunt). Pulmonary venous blood is not included. Has 3 major component: 1  superior vena cava. 2  inferior vena cava. 3  coronary sinus
Arterial-Venous Oxygen Content Difference. The arterial-venous oxygen content difference is the total oxygen content of arterial blood minus the oxygen content of mixed venous blood. o This value is useful because oxygen changes in mixed venous blood can occur earlier than changes in an arterial blood gas. 