The name Makayla is of Hebrew, Latin origins, which means it has more than one root, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. The history and meaning of the name Makayla is fascinating, learn more about it. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning).
Makayla is a form of the name Michael. The name Michael is an Anglicized form of the Hebrew name Mi-ke-el (מִיכָאֵל). It is derived from the Hebrew elements Mi, Me meaning who, ke meaning like or as and el a shortened version of elohim meaning G-d. The name Michael is an Anglicized form of the Hebrew name Mi-ke-el (מִיכָאֵל). Makayla is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ma-kay-la. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 123 in baby name popularity for girls with 2559 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
Makayla is an uncommonly occurring first name for females. Makayla is also an unusual last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Makayla for girls. 
[ 3 syll. ma-kay-la, mak-a- yla ] The baby girl name Makayla is pronounced M AA K EY-Laa †. Makayla is of Hebrew origin and it is predominantly used in the English language. Makayla is a form of Michaela. Makayla is a popular baby name for girls. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1980s; prior to that, it was of only sporadic use. At the modest height of its usage in 2008, 0.286% of baby girls were given the name Makayla
English Meaning: The name Mikayla is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Mikayla is: Feminine of Michael, meaning gift from God. American Meaning: The name Mikayla is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Mikayla is: Feminine of Michael, meaning gift from God. Latin Meaning: The name Mikayla is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Mikayla is: Feminine of Michael: gift from God.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Makayla. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Makayla, spread the love and share this with your friends. The history and meaning of the name Makayla is fascinating, learn more about it. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning).
Form of: Michaela. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Makayla and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Makayla and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Makayla is fascinating, learn more about it. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning).
Love the judgemental additude. For your information, my name is makayla and I was born to a 32 year old woman with a great job and im in college to become a nurse. Every person is different. You can believe what you want, but just because we have the name makayla, doesnt mean we're all bad people from bad backgrounds. 