Climate change started in Britain with the Industrial Revolution,  200 years ago when we began to seriously burn fossil fuels (coal,  oil and natural gas). This was the begi … nning of global warming. A: Climate change has always happened. The current cycle is similar to the past 4 in the trends, although this has been the coolest of the five we know of. The current cycle started roughly 10,200 years ago.
For the study of past climate change, see paleoclimatology. For temperatures on the longest time scales, see geologic temperature record. Climate change is a change in the statistical distribution of weather patterns when that change lasts for an extended period of time (i.e., decades to millions of years). Climate change may refer to a change in average weather conditions, or in the time variation of weather around longer-term average conditions (i.e., more or fewer extreme weather events).
In the same general period that scientists first suspected climate change and ice ages, Joseph Fourier, in 1824, found that Earth's atmosphere kept the planet warmer than would be the case in a vacuum, and he made the first calculations of the warming effect. The most striking change came in the 18th and 19th centuries, obvious within a single lifetime: the conversion of Eastern North America from forest to croplands. By the early 19th century many believed the transformation was altering the region's climate—probably for the better.
Global warming and “going green” are some of the most prominent buzzwords in the media today. The hype about water bottles produced using 30% less plastic and napkins made from 100% recycled paper isn’t just for any random reason, though. This is the result of concerns about climate change. It’s a “green footprint”! Changing climate on a global scale, though, can only occur when the amount of heat in the Earth’s system changes by either being added or released. Warming climates are the result of either an increase in heat entering the Earth or a decrease in heat released from the atmosphere.
Current climate change began at the beginning of the industrial revolution, in response to increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuel. The initial change was very small. We can see much more dramatic effects beginning about 30 years ago, and CO2 levels eclipsed 350 ppm. A: Climate change has always happened. The current cycle is similar to the past 4 in the trends, although this has been the coolest of the five we know of. The current cycle started roughly 10,200 years ago.
Since the 1990s, scientific research on climate change has included multiple disciplines and has expanded, significantly increasing our understanding of causal relations, links with historic data and ability to numerically model climate change. The most striking change came in the 18th and 19th centuries, obvious within a single lifetime: the conversion of Eastern North America from forest to croplands. By the early 19th century many believed the transformation was altering the region's climate—probably for the better.
Here are gathered in chronological sequence the most important events in the history of climate change science. (For a narrative see the Introduction: summary history.) This list of milestones includes major influences external to the science itself. Following it is a list of other external influences. 2008 Climate scientists (although not the public) recognize that even if all greenhouse gas emissions could be halted immediately, global warming will continue for millennia. CO2. 2009 Many experts warn that global warming is arriving at a faster and more dangerous pace than anticipated just a few years earlier.
As we’ve already established, climate change occurs when the factors that influence it changes. Changing climate on a global scale, though, can only occur when the amount of heat in the Earth’s system changes by either being added or released. Warming climates are the result of either an increase in heat entering the Earth or a decrease in heat released from the atmosphere.
The basic physics of climate change have been known for more than a century, but it is in recent decades that the fundamental science of global warming has solidified. By Spencer Weart | August 17, 2012. Whatever the cause of warming, everyone thought that if it happened to continue for the next few centuries, so much the better. In the 1950s, Callendar’s claims provoked a few scientists to look into the question with improved techniques and calculations.
Current civilization—agriculture and population distribution—has developed based on the current climate. The more the climate changes, and the more rapidly it changes, the greater the cost of adaptation. Ultimately, global warming will impact life on Earth in many ways, but the extent of the change is largely up to us. 