Replace has the answer with a quality, low cost headlight. For much less cash than the factory unit, you get a replacement headlight that is identical to OE in every way; same quality, same method of installation. Don't drive with a damaged or non-functional headlight and endanger yourself and your passengers because of the high cost of a replacement. A Replace Headlight is a direct replacement for the original equipment (OE) part but costs much less. You get OE quality without the OE price. Features:
A common misdiagnosis for the replacement of a headlight assembly is a shot headlight bulb. You do not have to replace the full headlight assembly to replace the bulb. A bulb is a cheap and simple DIY repair that should not take more than 20 mins and $10-$75. The full cost of repairing or replacing a headlight assembly cannot be accurately estimated without knowing the make and model of the car. The chart we created below shows the part costs for five of the top selling headlight assemblies on the market. The headlight assembly replacement cost really varies on which vehicle you have and what kind of lighting system you have (Halogen, HID or LED).
Factory Headlights by Replace®. You need your headlights to be functional for safe driving, to see the road and be seen by other drivers. Don't drive with a damaged or non-functional headlight and endanger yourself and your passengers because of the high cost of a replacement. A Replace Headlight is a direct replacement for the original equipment (OE) part but costs much less. You get OE quality without the OE price. Features:
If it's your first time to replace the headlight bulbs of your car, then most likely, it's a halogen bulb. Halogen bulbs are the most commonly used today, and they typically last from 400 to 600 hours. These actually come in many different types. 
You can SAVE about an average of about $420.00 of up front cost when you restore your headlights as against to buying new headlights.That's an average vehicle. However if you have a hign end vehicle like a BMW.Benze, Lexus or most foreign vehicle a new headlight replacement can give you a huge dent in your pocket. The average headlight cost about $250.00 with instalation EACH This equal to $500.00 per pair.This is new headlights which will last about 2 to 3 years before they start getting cloudy hazy or dull.Headlight restoration service cost $80.00 per PAIR. Lets say for argument sake they last only 1 year.
Parts: $82 - $100. The average cost for a headlamp bulb replacement is between $130 to $162. Labor costs are estimated between $48 to $62 while parts are priced between $82 to $100. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees.
Some vehicles use HID (High Intensity Discharge) headlights. These headlights use several components to produce a very bright light. The bulbs for these systems can cost over $100. Please confirm the type of system you have installed on your vehicle prior to booking an appointment. Some cars have four bulbs in the front (two for high beams and two for low); other cars only have two bulbs (each bulb can provide both high and low beam). Also, most new cars have separate fuses for each headlamp. Before changing the bulb, the mechanic should inspect the fuse for that particular bulb.
Most new cars come equipped with headlight bulbs instead of the whole headlamp units, which means you can simply replace the bulb. Some cars have four bulbs in the front (two for high beams and two for low); other cars only have two bulbs (each bulb can provide both high and low beam). Also, most new cars have separate fuses for each headlamp. Before changing the bulb, the mechanic should inspect the fuse for that particular bulb.