Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Kallan in Gaelic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. List of Gaelic baby names, Gaelic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Gaelic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Gaelic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child
Kallan /kal-lan/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAL-en. It is of Gaelic and Scottish origin, and the meaning of Kallan is battle; rock. See Callan. Kreatif forms: Kallanna, Khlan. Kallan is an unusual first name for females but a somewhat prominent last name for all people (#120330 out of 150436, Top 80%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Kallan for girls. Kallan has yet to be ranked in the list thus far
Gaelic Meaning: The name Kallan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kallan is: Powerful in battle. Scandinavian Meaning: The name Kallan is a Scandinavian baby name. In Scandinavian the meaning of the name Kallan is: Flowing water. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony
Meaning of Kallan. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Kallan means-Powerful in battle.. Other origins for the name Kallan include-Gaelic, Scandinavian.The name Kallan is most often used as a girl name or female name. Gaelic Name Meaning-Powerful in battle. 
Kalan /ka-lan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Kalan). Kalan's root is Gaelic. Kalan is a version of Kaelan (Gaelic): meaning uncertain. Compare surname Kolan. 
Meaning of Kallan. Scandinavian name. In Scandinavian, the name Kallan means-flowing water. Other origins for the name Kallan include-Scandinavian, Gaelic.The name Kallan is most often used as a girl name or female name. Scandinavian Name Meaning-flowing water. Origin-Scandinavia
[ 2 syll. kal-lan, ka-ll-an ] The baby boy name Kallan is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as K AE L-aeN †. The origin of Kallan is Hawaiian. Kallan is a variant of the name Kalan. Kallan is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. 
Kallan is a beautiful name, pronounced like the calen in calendar. It flows off the tongue beautifully. 