Juvenile Dermatomyositis (JDM) is a rare autoimmune disease in which the body’s immune system attacks it’s own cells and tissues. Weakened muscles and a skin rash are the primary symptoms of JDM. Even within these designations, JDM affects every child differently. JDM’s exact incidence is unknown. Estimates from various studies suggest that between 1 and 5 children per million will develop this disease each year. The average age of onset for JDM is between six to seven years old.
The primary symptoms of JM are weak or painful muscles, skin rash (with JDM), fatigue and fever. Some children experience joint pain as well. 1  Weak muscles. 2  The muscles that are affected the most are near the trunk of the body: the stomach, thigh muscles, neck and upper arm muscles. The average age of onset for JDM is between six to seven years old; 25% are age 4 or less. JPM usually develops several years later. JM affects girls twice as much as boys. Once a child is diagnosed with JM, it is always considered to be the juvenile form, even if the patient continues with the disease into adulthood.
Juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) is an inflammatory disease that causes muscle weakness and a skin rash on the eyelids and knuckles. It affects an estimated 3,000-5,000 children in the United States. All age and ethnic groups are affected. 
Welcome to JDRG. Juvenile Dermatomyositis (JDM) is children illness which affects the skin (dermato) and muscles (myositis) and frequently other parts of the body including joints, lungs, gut and blood vessels. See Treatment. 
Juvenile dermatomyositis is an inflammatory disease of the muscle (myositis), skin and blood vessels that affects about 3 in 1 million children each year. The cause is unknown. The primary symptoms of JDM include muscle weakness and skin rash. All age and ethnic groups are affected. Most cases start in children ages 5 -10 and adults ages 40-50.
Juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) is an autoimmune disease that affects children, usually between the ages of 2 and 15. An autoimmune disease is one in which the body’s immune system attacks its own healthy tissues and cells because it mistakenly sees them as invaders. Treatment of JDM depends on how severe the disease is. The goals of treatment are to: control inflammation and prevent tissue damage; improve muscle strength; relieve pain; prevent other symptoms; and help the child and family live with the disease. Some common treatments include: 1  Medications:
Juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) is an idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IMM) of presumed autoimmune dysfunction resulting in muscle weakness among other complications. It manifests itself in children; it is the pediatric counterpart of dermatomyositis. On the hands and face, the rash very closely resembles allergies, eczema, fifth disease, or other more common skin condition, but the heliotrope color is unique to the inflammatory process of JDMS. Some children develop calcinosis, which are calcium deposits under the skin.
In the United States, the incidence rate of JDMS is approximately 2-3 cases per million children per year.The UK incidence is believed to be between 2-3 per million children per year, with some difference between ethnic groups. On the hands and face, the rash very closely resembles allergies, eczema, fifth disease, or other more common skin condition, but the heliotrope color is unique to the inflammatory process of JDMS. Some children develop calcinosis, which are calcium deposits under the skin.