Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of dispossess from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars.
The noun DISPOSSESSION has 2 senses: 1. the expulsion of someone (such as a tenant) from the possession of land by process of law. 2. freeing from evil spirits. Familiarity information: DISPOSSESSION used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (dispossession is a kind of...): due process; due process of law ((law) the administration of justice according to established rules and principles; based on the principle that a person cannot be deprived of life or liberty or property without appropriate legal procedures and safeguards).
References in classic literature? Once, the first time, when the rent of the house was two months behind and the landlord was threatening dispossession, it was Felipe Rivera, the scrub-boy in the poor, cheap clothes, worn and threadbare, who laid sixty dollars in gold on May Sethby's desk. The Night-Born by London, Jack View in context. 
Dispossession. The wrongful, nonconsensual ouster or removal of a person from his or her property by trick, compulsion, or misuse of the law, whereby the violator obtains actual occupation of the land. Dispossession encompasses intrusion, disseisin, or deforcement. noun abridgment, assumption, condemnation, confiscation, dislodgment, disqualification, distrust, divestment, ejection, eviction, expropriation, expulsion, foreclosure, forfeiture, ouster, privation, removal, taking, usurpation. Once, the first time, when the rent of the house was two months behind and the landlord was threatening dispossession, it was Felipe Rivera, the scrub-boy in the poor, cheap clothes, worn and threadbare, who laid sixty dollars in gold on May Sethby's desk. The Night-Born by London, Jack View in context.
Full Definition of DISPOSSESS. transitive verb. — dis·pos·ses·sion \-ˈze-shən also -ˈse-\ noun. — dis·pos·ses·sor \-ˈze-sər also -ˈse-\ noun. See dispossess defined for English-language learners. 
dis·pos·sess. tr.v. dis·pos·sessed, dis·pos·sess·ing, dis·pos·sess·es. To deprive (another) of the possession or occupancy of something, such as real property. dis′pos·ses′sion (-zĕsh′ən) n. dis′pos·ses′sor n. dis′pos·ses′so·ry (-zĕs′ə-rē) adj. I recognize the right of my rival to dispossess us. Tom Swift In The Land Of Wonders by Appleton, Victor View in context. Sometimes the quarrel between two princes is to decide which of them shall dispossess a third of his dominions, where neither of them pretend to any right.
the act of putting out of possession; the state of being dispossessed. Dispossession (noun). the putting out of possession, wrongfully or otherwise, of one who is in possession of a freehold, no matter in what title; -- called also ouster. Origin: [Cf. 
dispossess-Legal Definition. v. n. 1  To evict someone from a tenancy in, or the possession of, real property. 2  A document, such as a legally required notice, advising someone that an eviction proceeding will be commenced if he or she does not vacate the premises within a specified time period. 3  Link/Cite.