WELCOME TO ThE ZUMBA fAMily. Joining Zin was an excellent move, and in turn, Zin will make your moves excellent! Now you are a part of the Zumba Family. The Zumba Family is deeply connected – not by a passion for dance, but by something that is much deeper – a passion for living. See, Zumba Instructors have the philosophy of living life to its fullest. This is what sets us apart as a family, and ZIN keeps this family connected. In this family, we stick together. Instructor shall pay Zumba a membership fee (the “ZIN Membership Fee”) in the amount of US $30.00 per month,which shall be payable each and every month during the Termhereof, subject to the terms of subparagraph 2.2 below.
Best Answer: If you enjoy it, go for it! I'm a zumba instructor.. i'm only certified in zumba.. it's the only workout i find fun! I teach 3 times a week just at our local rec center and make $36/class .. a lot of instructors rent a room at a dance studio and charge per class, that way they make more. It depends on where you want to work.. ask around, find out how much fitness instructors make in your area (i'm in cleveland)
Zumba Instructor Salary. The average salary of a Zumba instructor can range between USD 22,000 and 53,000 annually depending on a variety of factors. This article provides you with comprehensive information about the pay scale of a Zumba trainer. Advertisement. There are two facets of working as a Zumba instructor. So, for a basic Zumba instructor who's a freshman, salary starts somewhere between USD 15 and USD 25, on an hourly basis. The more hours you devote, the more money you make. However, it may amaze you to read that private parties offer Zumba instructors no less than USD 100 to USD 150 for an hou
Or, in the second scenario, you can become part of the ZIN (ZUMBA instructor network). You pay a monthly fee of $30 and you don’t need to go through the certification process again. That payment also includes ongoing training, CDs, and DVDs, and choreography for you to use in class. 
Feeling It: Zumba instructors are both the primary customers and the core product of Zumba Fitness. Some 8,000 of them paid at least $399 each to attend an instructors' convention in Orlando in August. 
The jobs website Indeed's 2014 national average for Zumba instructors was $38,000 a year. How much you earn depends on variables such as how many students you attract and where you live. In California, Zumba instructors earned an average annual salary of $41,000 a year in 2014; in Connecticut, the average was $44,000. They earned less in Louisiana, where the average was $34,000 a year, and Montana, where the average was $32,000 a year. Zumba is a fitness routine that is characterized by Latin music and aerobic dance movements. It got its start by accident: Colombian fitness instructor Alberto Perez was on his way to work when he realized he forgot the music he used during his aerobics class.
32 Contributions. A big part of that is where you work for example if you are a Doctor working in U.S.A. expect to make some big bucks im talking 200-400 dollars an hour if not more. 
Hi I make between $20-30 per class here in Seattle Wa. Depending on attendance. Wondering if anybidy knows how much on average group instructors make in vancouver, bc and Burnaby, looks like a good chance we may move there, becsuse of hubbys work. 1. Depending on the class I teach, it's $22.50 or $25.00. Also a free membership, and I don't have to pay for CPR and AED. For mandatory meetings and similar stuff, there is an established hourly rate which is around $19.00.
32 Contributions. A big part of that is where you work for example if you are a Doctor working in U.S.A. expect to make some big bucks im talking 200-400 dollars an hour if not more. 