: Knowledge of the structure and function of bones and aspects of skeletal system generally are essential parts of training in human biology, medicine and associated health sciences. This page is intended to include the detail required for most Basic / First Level Courses in many therapies, and some ITEC Diplomas. 
The skeletal system includes all of the bones and joints in the body. Each bone is a complex living organ that is made up of many cells, protein fibers, and minerals. The skeleton acts as a scaffold by providing support and protection for the soft tissues that make up the rest of the body. The skeletal system’s primary function is to form a solid framework that supports and protects the body's organs and anchors the skeletal muscles. The bones of the axial skeleton act as a hard shell to protect the internal organs—such as the brain and the heart —from damage caused by external forces.
The skeletal system does the following main functions: 1. The skeletal system protects vulnerable organs such as the brain (protected by the skull) and the heart (protected b … y the rib cage). 2. Bones act as levers to magnify the motion of muscles. 3. Bones give the body its shape. 4. Bone marrow produces blood cells (both red and white). 
The adult human skeletal system consists of 206 bones, as well as a network of tendons, ligaments and cartilage that connects them. The skeletal system performs vital functions — support, movement, protection, blood cell production, calcium storage and endocrine regulation — that enable us to survive. Teeth also play a key role in the digestive system. The skeletal system has two distinctive parts: the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton, according to the U.S National Library of Medicine (NLM). The axial skeleton, with a total of 80 bones, consists of the vertebral column, the rib cage and the skull.
The skeletal system in the body provides the shape, supports and protects organs and the soft areas of the body. Its others functions are bodily movement, producing blood for the body, and storing minerals that the physical structure needs. Shape and Support. The skeleton is made up of various bones and provides the framework for the body. Thus, the skeleton provides the basic shape and structure for the body. The five functions of the Skeletal system A.K.A, the skeleton, are that they help you stand up, move and jump and run, protection of other systems, storing fat and calcium, an … d producing red blood cells.
The skeletal system is made up of bones and cartilages. There are 206 bones in the body and these bones and cartilages help provide the support and points of attachment to many soft tissues, muscles and ligaments in the body. Protection. One of the main functions of skeletal system involves protection to the soft and delicate internal organs of the body. The brain is protected by the skull, the nerves are protected by the spinal column, the rib cage provides protection to the heart and lungs.
The skeletal system is divided into two parts, the axial skeleton and appendicular skeleton. The axial skeleton includes the skull, spinal column, ribs and sternum. The appendicular skeleton includes all upper and lower extremities, the shoulder girdle and the pelvic girdle. The collagen provides flexibility while the minerals provide tensile strength. The skeletal system has five main functions in the body, three of which are external and visible to the naked eye, and two of which are internal. The external functions are: structure, movement and protection. The internal functions are: blood cell production and storag
Overview. The human skeleton consists of 206 bones. When put together, the skeletal system provides the base framework to which all the other tissues and organs attach, giving shape to the human body. The human skeleton has two distinct features, including opposable thumbs and an erect structure, allowing you to walk on two legs. Tendons attach your muscles to the bones of your skeleton. The muscular and skeletal systems work together to carry out bodily movement, and together they are called the musculoskeletal system. When muscles contract, the skeleton moves.