Most healthy adults can infect others one day before they begin experiencing symptoms and up to five days after they become sick. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-after-you-come-in-contact-with-the-flu-virus-do-you-show-symptoms ]. 1 How long after you come in contact with the flu virus do you show symptoms. 2  What would cause sudden onset of agonizing urination followed by a slight fever, headaches and all over body aches. 3  What kind of medicine should you take when you have the stomach flu. 4  Why does krystens throat hurt.
Health related question in topics Conditions Illness .We found some answers as below for this question How long after you come in contact with the flu virus do you show symptoms,you can compare them. 1 How long after you come in contact with the flu virus do you show symptoms. 2  What would cause sudden onset of agonizing urination followed by a slight fever, headaches and all over body aches. 3  What kind of medicine should you take when you have the stomach flu. 4  Why does krystens throat hurt.
Noroviruses are a group of viruses that cause the “stomach flu,” or gastroenteritis (GAS-tro-en-ter-I-tis), in people. The “stomach flu” is NOT related to the flu (or influenza), which is a respiratory illness caused by a different virus. 
A. It takes approximately 24-48 hours for initial symptoms to appear after exposure to the influenza virus. If you suspect you have the flu, seek medical treatment quickly. Tamiflu, if taken within the first 48 hours of symptoms occurring, can reduce the time it takes to heal and can reduce symptoms. 
1 Symptoms usually appear within one to two days of exposure. 2  Although you typically feel better after a day or two, you're contagious for up to three days after you've recovered. 3  Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 4  Rotavirus. 1 Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 2  Rotavirus. 3  Symptoms of rotavirus — the leading cause of viral gastroenteritis in infants and young children — usually appear one to three days after exposure.
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. 1 Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 2  Rotavirus. 3  Symptoms of rotavirus — the leading cause of viral gastroenteritis in infants and young children — usually appear one to three days after exposure.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Symptoms of the flu usually develop suddenly, about three days after being exposed to the virus. They include fever, chills, cough, sore throat, runny nose, and soreness and aching in the back, arms and legs. Minor edit? + 72 others found this useful. Was this answer useful? If you've been exposed you may not show symptoms for up to 7 days. Most people typically get symptoms within 3 to 5 days following exposure. The same holds true for the season … al flu or colds.
People also view. 1  How long after you come in contact with the flu virus do you show symptoms. 2  What would cause sudden onset of agonizing urination followed by a slight fever, headaches and all over body aches. 1 How long after you come in contact with the flu virus do you show symptoms. 2  What would cause sudden onset of agonizing urination followed by a slight fever, headaches and all over body aches. 3  What kind of medicine should you take when you have the stomach flu. 4  Why does krystens throat hurt.
How long after being exposed to the stomach flu until symptoms show? typically it is between 24-46 hours (most often starts after 36 hours) but can be aslong as 72 hours. If you've been exposed you may not show symptoms for up to 7 days. Most people typically get symptoms within 3 to 5 days following exposure. The same holds true for the season … al flu or colds.