IP multicast datagrams are sent to a group, and only members of the group receive the datagrams. A group is identified by a single IP multicast address, which is an IP address in the Class D range of 224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255 (designated as 224.0.0.0/4 in classless interdomain routing (CIDR) notation). The following figure illustrates a multicast-enabled intranet. Multicast-Enabled Network. In this illustration, the hosts and routers are multicast-enabled so that the following can occur: 1  The sending host sends multicast datagrams to a designated group address. 2  The routers forward the multicast datagrams to any network segments that include group members
An IP multicast group address is used by sources and the receivers to send and receive multicast messages. Sources use the group address as the IP destination address in their data packets. Receivers use this group address to inform the network that they are interested in receiving packets sent to that group. IP multicast is a technique for one-to-many and many-to-many real-time communication over an IP infrastructure in a network. It scales to a larger receiver population by requiring neither prior knowledge of a receiver's identity nor prior knowledge of the number of receivers.
In an IP multicast-enabled intranet, any host can send IP multicast datagrams to any group address, and any host can receive IP multicast datagrams from any group address regardless of its location. To facilitate this capability, the hosts and routers on the intranet must support IP multicasting. The following figure illustrates a multicast-enabled intranet. Multicast-Enabled Network. In this illustration, the hosts and routers are multicast-enabled so that the following can occur: 1  The sending host sends multicast datagrams to a designated group address. 2  The routers forward the multicast datagrams to any network segments that include group members
In computer networking, multicast (one-to-many or many-to-many distribution) is group communication where information is addressed to a group of destination computers simultaneously. IP multicast is a technique for one-to-many communication over an IP infrastructure in a network. The destination nodes send join and leave messages, for example in the case of Internet television when the user changes from one TV channel to another.
We strongly recommend that IGMP snooping is enabled if multicast is used. Even in that case, be careful to use a minimum amount of multicast. Dante configures routing with unicast by default, and multicast will not be required for most of small-to-mid scale Dante systems. 
unicast. geocast. In computer networking, multicast (one-to-many or many-to-many distribution) is group communication where information is addressed to a group of destination computers simultaneously. Multicast should not be confused with physical layer point-to-multipoint communication. IP multicast is a technique for one-to-many communication over an IP infrastructure in a network. The destination nodes send join and leave messages, for example in the case of Internet television when the user changes from one TV channel to another.
Multicast streaming is a one-to-many relationship between a Windows Media server and the clients receiving the stream. With a multicast stream, the server streams to a multicast IP address on the network, and clients receive the stream by subscribing to the IP address. 
IP multicast is a method of sending Internet Protocol (IP) datagrams to a group of interested receivers in a single transmission. It is often employed for streaming media applications on the Internet and private networks. The method is the IP-specific version of the general concept of multicast networking. IP multicast is a technique for one-to-many and many-to-many real-time communication over an IP infrastructure in a network. It scales to a larger receiver population by requiring neither prior knowledge of a receiver's identity nor prior knowledge of the number of receivers.
Using multicast, a source can send a single copy of data to a single multicast address, which is then distributed to an entire group of recipients. A multicast group identifies a set of recipients that are interested in a particular data stream, and is represented by an IP address from a well-defined range. Data sent to this IP address is forwarded to all members of the multicast group. Routers between the source and recipients duplicate data packets and forward multiple copies wherever the path to recipients diverges.