. If NetStat says a connection is in the TIME_WAIT state, it means the client has already disconnected. So if you see several connections in TIME_WAIT it is not a 'simultaneous' connection. It is common for a client to connect to the sever multiple times, generating several TIME_WAIT connections. TIME_WAIT means it's waiting for a reply or connection. this often happens when a port is activated and the connection has not yet. been established. May be clients certificate does not match the one on sepm server.
If the client closes the connection, there will be many ports in TIME_WAIT state on the client side. Since the client runs out of local ports, it becomes impossible to make a new connection attempt quickly. If the server closes the connection, I will see many TIME_WAIT s on the server side. 
Best Answer: if you type netstat-ano, in command prompt, you get the existing connections of your internet. Established means, the connection is established with those ips. Time wait means it is waiting for the connection to be established. You need not worry about other connections. If suppose, your computer is compromised, a third party may know what you are browsing or send some trojans to get the secured data from your computer. This kind of connection could be known from the processes with some understanding the processes.
All clients TIME WAIT on netstat-Comment:13 Sep 2010: Link. TIME_WAIT means it's waiting for a reply or connection. this often happens when a port is activated and the connection has not yet. been established. May be clients certificate does not match the one on sepm server.
-a. Displays a ll active connections and the TCP and UDP ports on which the computer is listening. -b (Windows). Displays the b inary (executable) program's name involved in creating each connection or listening port. (Windows XP, 2003 Server and newer Windows operating systems; not Microsoft Windows 2000 or older). 
The netstat command is a Command Prompt command used to display very detailed information about how your computer is communicating with other computers or network devices. Execute the netstat command alone to show a relatively simple list of all active TCP connections which, for each one, will show the local IP address (your computer), the foreign IP address (the other computer or network device), along with their respective port numbers, as well as the TCP state.
2. Next the TCP endpoint on the browser's side of the connection acknowledges the server's FIN by sending back an ACK, and goes into a state called CLOSE_WAIT. When the server side receives this ACK, it switches to a state called FIN_WAIT_2. The connection is now half-closed.
Due to the way TCP/IP works, connections can not be closed immediately. Packets may arrive out of order or be retransmitted after the connection has been closed. CLOSE_WAIT indicates that the remote endpoint (other side of the connection) has closed the connection. TIME_WAIT indicates that local endpoint (this side) has closed the connection. The connection is being kept around so that any delayed packets can be matched to the connection and handled appropriately. 
TIME_WAIT means both sides have agreed to close and TCP. must now wait a prescribed time before taking the connection. down. CLOSE_WAIT means the remote system has finished sending. and your system has yet to say it's finished. James Grant. 8Signs Ltd. RS wrote: 1  Next message: Bob Fryer: Re: Smoothwall port forwarding problem. 1 TIME_WAIT means both sides have agreed to close and TCP 2  ... CLOSE_WAIT means the remote system has finished sending 3  ... (comp.security.firewalls). 4  Value List Decorator. ... 5  From the LCD IRC icon on a ISA virus to a TCP Man, ... 6  disconnect to a OpenGL terminale to the hard disk of the ..