The bobcat is the most abundant wildcat in the U.S. and has the greatest range of all native North American cats. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Bobcats are elusive and nocturnal, so they are rarely spotted by humans. Fierce hunters, bobcats can kill prey much bigger than themselves, but usually eat rabbits, birds, mice, squirrels, and other smaller game. The bobcat hunts by stealth, but delivers a deathblow with a leaping pounce that can cover 10 feet (3 meters).
Bobcats have historically dominated a wide variety of habitats across North America with the Bobcat known to people all over the continent, having roots in Native American folklore and in tales of the first European settlers in the Northern USA and Canada. Bobcat Classification and Evolution The Bobcat is a medium-sized wildcat that is found in a variety of habitats across the southern half of North America.
Bobcats are predators but that does not mean they have no enemies. One of the reasons bobcats are nervous around people is because they have the role of prey as well as hunter. At 2 to 3 feet long, bobcats are small enough to be threatened by other carnivores such as coyotes. Bobcat kittens in particular are a potential prey item for many predators. Microorganisms. The real natural enemies of bobcats are not other predators but much smaller microorganisms. Like most other animals, bobcats are vulnerable to a range of infections and diseases including rabies and feline distemper. After humans, the main threats to adult bobcats appear to be diseases and parasites.
The bobcat (Lynx rufus) is a North American mammal of the cat family Felidae that appeared during the Irvingtonian stage of around 1.8 million years ago (AEO). Containing 12 recognized subspecies, it ranges from southern Canada to central Mexico, including most of the continental United States. The bobcat's range does not seem to be limited by human populations, as long as it can find a suitable habitat; only large, intensively cultivated tracts are unsuitable for the species. The animal may appear in back yards in urban edge environments, where human development intersects with natural habitats.
The Bobcat is the most widely distributed of all North American felines and is found across North America from southern parts of Canada right down to southern Mexico. They are incredibly versatile animals that have adapted to living in a variety of different habitats throughout the three different countries. Bobcat Classification and Evolution The Bobcat is a medium-sized wildcat that is found in a variety of habitats across the southern half of North America.
Bobcats mainly hunt rabbits and hares. Bobcats are also known to eat rodents, birds, bats and even. adult deer, which they usually consume during the winter months, as well as lambs, poultry and young pigs when a ranch is near. In the early to mid 1900s, bobcat populations in many Midwestern and eastern states of the United States were decimated due to the increased value of its fur. However, international laws began to protect the world's spotted cats in the 1970s, and populations have rebounded since then.
Bobcat Predators and Threats. The Bobcat is a fierce and dominant predator in it's natural habitat with adult Bobcats therefore being threatened by few animals, the biggest concern to them being Cougars and Wolves. Bobcat Classification and Evolution The Bobcat is a medium-sized wildcat that is found in a variety of habitats across the southern half of North America.
De-forestation is caused by the development of tract homes and/or shopping malls adjoining the bobcat's range. Bobcats are prevalent throughout the US, parts of Canada and par … ts of Mexico. Rivers become polluted by manufacturing plants despite Federal, State, County, and City laws. A bobcat has many defense mechanisms that they can use against  their predators. These defense mechanisms include their sharp  claws, sharp dagger style teeth, ferocious gro … wl, concealment  capabilities, and keen sense of sight. 1 person found this useful.