7 Phenol/chloroform Extraction of DNA Phenol extraction is a common technique used to purify a DNA sample (1). Typically, an equal volume of TE-saturated phenol is added to an aqueous DNA sample in a microcentrifuge tube. The mixture is vigorously vortexed, and then centrifuged to enact phase separation. 2. Add an equal volume of TE-saturated phenol:chloroform (1:1) to the DNA sample contained in a 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube and vortex for 15-30 seconds. 3. Centrifuge the sample for 5 minutes at room temperature to separate the phases.
Phenol/Chloroform – This is a mixture of buffer-saturated phenol and chloroform, usually close to 1:1 for DNA purification with other ratios sometimes used for RNA purification. Isoamyl alcohol is sometimes included as an anti-foaming agent, but is generally thought to be an inert and optional addition. Chloroform – This is normally used after phenol or phenol/chloroform extractions. While pure chloroform doesn’t work as well as the organic solutions mentioned above for protein extraction, it works well for extracting phenol from aqueous solutions.
1 The pH is important since chromosomal DNA will end up in the phenol phase if the pH is acid (arround pH 5). 2  This fact can be used for RNA extraction but it is not a good idea to use acid phenol to clean your chromosomal DNA from proteins. It is typically easiest to carry the extraction out in 1.7–2 mL eppendorf tubes. 1  Dilute your nucleic acid sample to 100–700 µL or divide your samples into tubes such that you have no more than 700 µL per tube. 2  Add an equal volume of phenol to the tube, vortex vigorously to mix the phases. 3  Spin in a microfuge at top speed for 1–2 min to separate ...
Phenol is often used in combination with chloroform. The purpose of adding chloroform along with phenol is to ensure a clear separation between the aqueous and organic phases. Chloroform and phenol mix well together, unlike phenol and water. The density of chloroform is 1.47 g/cm 3, higher than that of water and phenol. There are two reasons why phenol makes such an effective purifier for nucleic acid samples. The first is that it is a non-polar compound. Because nucleic acids are highly polar, they do not dissolve in the presence of phenol.
The phenol extraction technique is often used to purify samples of nucleic acids taken from cells. To obtain nucleic acid samples, the cell must be lysed and the nucleic acids separated from all other cell materials. There are two reasons why phenol makes such an effective purifier for nucleic acid samples. The first is that it is a non-polar compound. Because nucleic acids are highly polar, they do not dissolve in the presence of phenol.
Phenol–chloroform extraction is a liquid-liquid extraction technique in biochemistry and molecular biology for purifying nucleic acids and eliminating proteins. In brief, aqueous samples are mixed with equal volumes of a phenol: chloroform mixture. After mixing, the mixture is centrifuged and two distinct phases are formed, because the phenol: chloroform mixture is immiscible with water.
DNA is a polar molecule due to the negative charges on it’s phosphate backbone, so it is very soluble in water and less so in phenol. This means that when the water(+DNA +protein) and phenol are mixed in the protocol, the DNA does not dissolve in the phenol, but remains in the water phase. The phenol-soluble proteins partition to the phenol phase while, as discussed above, the water soluble, polar DNA molecules stay in the water phase (see panel 3 in the figure). So that’s how phenol extraction works. If you have any questions, or corrections, be sure to let me know.
1 Phenol:Chloroform:Isoamyl alcohol usually has an upper layer of buffer saturated water in the bottle. 2  Do not use this buffer layer -- you want the phenol/chloroform layer underneath. 3  Be careful to determine which layer is the phenol. 4  The density of pure phenol (unlike phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol) is almost 1.0. It is typically easiest to carry the extraction out in 1.7–2 mL eppendorf tubes. 1  Dilute your nucleic acid sample to 100–700 µL or divide your samples into tubes such that you have no more than 700 µL per tube. 2  Add an equal volume of phenol to the tube, vortex vigorously to mix the phases. 3  Spin in a microfuge at top speed for 1–2 min to separate ...
For phenol to be effective the pH of the solution must vary according to what is being extracted. In the case of DNA purification a pH of 7.0–8.0 is used. If the aim of an experiment is to obtain samples of purified RNA, a pH of around 4.5 is used. There are two reasons why phenol makes such an effective purifier for nucleic acid samples. The first is that it is a non-polar compound. Because nucleic acids are highly polar, they do not dissolve in the presence of phenol.
Phenol extraction is a commonly used method for removing proteins from a DNA sample, e.g. to remove proteins from cell lysate during genomic DNA preparation. It’s commonly used, but not commonly understood. If you want to know how it works so you can show off to all of your friends… read on. The phenol-soluble proteins partition to the phenol phase while, as discussed above, the water soluble, polar DNA molecules stay in the water phase (see panel 3 in the figure). So that’s how phenol extraction works. If you have any questions, or corrections, be sure to let me know.