You could say, I met Joan .. In this sentence the word Joan is a noun. You could replace Joan with a group of words (a phrase) and say, I met your sister .. Your sister is a phrase (a group of words without a finite verb), and it functions as a noun in the sentence. So we call it a noun phrase. Additional noun phrases examples (the noun phrase is in bold):
1 A noun phrase may function as the subject or object of a clause. 2  A noun phrase may consist of a single word (a noun or pronoun) or a group of words. 3  The most important noun in a noun phrase is called the headword NOUN PHRASE. 4  3. Example of noun phrases (headword in bracket) My old maths (teacher) was Austrian. 1 2. 2  When we see a noun as performing a role in a sentence, we think of it as a noun phrase. 3  A noun phrase may function as the subject or object of a clause. 4
Full Definition of NOUN PHRASE. : a phrase formed by a noun and all its modifiers and determiners; broadly: any syntactic element (as a clause, clitic, pronoun, or zero element) with a noun's function (as the subject of a verb or the object of a verb or preposition) —abbreviation NP. See noun phrase defined for English-language learners.
A noun phrase or nominal phrase (abbreviated NP) is a phrase which has a noun (or indefinite pronoun) as its head word, or which performs the same grammatical function as such a phrase. 
Search. A noun phrase is a phrase that plays the role of a noun. The head word in a noun phrase will be a noun or a pronoun. In the examples below, the whole noun phrase is shaded and the head word is in bold. Compare the three examples above to these: In these three examples, the words in bold are all pronouns. Like any noun, a noun phrase can be a subject, an object, or a complement. Noun phrases are extremely common. A noun with any sort of modifier (including just a number or an article) is a noun phrase. Here are some examples of noun phrases:
My definition is: A noun phrase is either a pronoun or any group of words that can be replaced by a pronoun. For example, 'they', 'cars', and 'the cars' are noun phrases, but 'car' is just a noun, as you can see in these sentences (in which the noun phrases are all in bold). 
An adjective phrase is a group of words that describe a noun or pronoun in a sentence. The adjective phrase can be placed before, or after, the noun or pronoun in the sentence. 
A noun phrase is word group with a noun or pronoun as its head. The simplest noun phrase consists of a single noun, as in the sentence  Bells were ringing.. Definition. A noun phrase is word group with a noun or pronoun as its head. The simplest noun phrase consists of a single noun, as in the sentence  Bells were ringing.. The head of a noun phrase can be accompanied by modifiers, determiners (such as the, a, her), and/or complements, as in .
noun. noun \ˈnau̇n\. : a word or phrase that is the name of something (as a person, place, or thing) and that is used in a sentence especially as subject or object of a verb or as object of a preposition. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of noun. Tweet. : a word that is the name of something (such as a person, animal, place, thing, quality, idea, or action) and is typically used in a sentence