Candida symptoms. Here is a list of symptoms and conditions that commonly occur in people with Candida overgrowth. Most all of these same symptoms typically improve or disappear with effective treatment for Candida. Some of the symptoms listed may sound “normal,” because the Candida problem is so common in the modern world.
Overview. Candida is a strain of fungus that can cause an infection in your skin, among other locations. In normal conditions, your skin may host small amounts of this fungus, but problems arise when it begins to multiply and creates an overgrowth. 
Photomicrograph of the fungus Candida albicans. Candidiasis is a fungal infection caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. There are over 20 species of Candida yeasts that can cause infection in humans, the most common of which is Candida albicans.
Recognizing the Symptoms of Candidiasis of the Skin. Candidiasis of the skin can occur anywhere on the skin, but it is most likely to occur on areas where the skin is folded. This includes areas in the armpits, in the groin, between your fingers, and under your breasts. Rashes from candidiasis can appear either as white or red skin. If you were to take a swab of your skin and grow the cells on a petri dish, you’d likely find lots of bacteria and fungal organisms living and growing without hurting your health. While some fungal infections are not harmful, the candida fungus can be.
Candidiasis Yeast Infection Overview. A yeast infection results from an overgrowth of yeast (a type of fungus) anywhere in the body. Candidiasis is by far the most common type of yeast infection. There are more than 20 species of Candida, the most common being Candida albicans. 
Candidiasis, commonly called a yeast infection, is an infection caused by a fungal microorganism, most often the fungus Candida albicans. Candidiasis is also known as candida and thrush. It can cause yeast infections in many areas of the body including: Mouth (oral thrush). Vagina (vaginal yeast infection, vaginal thrush). Digestive tract (gastroenteritis). The fungus that causes most cases of candidiasis, Candida albicans, normally lives in the mouth, vagina, and other places in the body. It exists in a certain balance with other microorganisms, including bacteria.
It is worth noting that more than 90 percent of a healthy population is “allergic” to candida. How can that be if it normally resides in the body? The delayed hypersensitivity (Type 4 allergy) response by the immune system is what helps the body control yeast overgrowth. 
Candida albicans. Candida albicans is a diploid fungus that grows both as yeast and filamentous cells and a causal agent of opportunistic oral and genital infections in humans, and candidal onychomycosis, an infection of the nail plate. 
Invasive candidiasis is an infection caused by a yeast (a type of fungus) called Candida. Unlike Candida infections in the mouth and throat (also called “thrush”) or vaginal “yeast infections,” invasive candidiasis is a serious infection that can affect the blood, heart, brain, eyes, bones, and other parts of the body. 
Candidiasis is a fungal infection due to any type of Candida (a type of yeast). When it affects the mouth, it is commonly called thrush. Signs and symptoms include white patches on the tongue or other areas of the mouth and throat. Other symptoms may include soreness and problems swallowing. 