Jakarta sits at the bottom of the list of 50 cities in the overall Safe Cities Index 2015, an Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) report released on Monday. The EIU launched the index by assessing urban safety and security among 50 cities across five continents. Jakarta ranks 45th in the personal safety category, followed by Sao Paulo, Tehran, Beijing, Moscow and Santiago at the bottom. Governor Basuki “Ahok” Tjahaja Purnama admitted that Jakarta was still not safe.
Crime is commonplace in Jakarta, though it's not a significant problem for Americans who follow basic safety precautions. Secure taxis from designated taxi stands at tourist venues or by calling a cab company, as criminals will paint cars to look like taxis, then rob the passengers. Terrorism. The 2002 bombings in Bali, a day's drive east of Jakarta, immediately put travelers on edge as militant group Jemaah Islamiya targeted two nightclubs frequented by Westerners, killing 202 people.
Food and water safety in Indonesia. Tap water in Indonesia is usually not safe for drinking and bottled water should be used for drinking, cooking and brushing teeth. Commercial bottled water is inexpensive and widely available. Mosquitoes are common throughout the whole of Indonesia and there is a risk of malaria, with the highest risk areas being Lombok and Irian Jaya (Papua). Dengue fever is another mosquito-spread disease that is common in Indonesia and for which there is no preventive medication or vaccination.
Jakarta is a huge city with several district articles containing sightseeing, restaurant, nightlife and accommodation listings — have a look at each of them. Jakarta is the capital and largest city of Indonesia, located on the northwest of the island of Java. Jakarta is the country's economic, cultural and political centre and the most populous city not only in Indonesia but in Southeast Asia as a whole. 
When in Jakarta in October I did not feel at all unsafe, but why go to Jakarta unless it's a jumping off point for another part of Indonesia. I agree with Kathie, if you are on Java, go to central Java to see Borobudur, especially,and the countryside around there. Considering the size and income level of Jakarta, it is remarkably crime free. Compared to large American cities, the incidence of violent crime is very low. Of course, robberies can occur so you want to use common sense.
Safety is in the eye of the beholder. Jakarta is a big city with all the big city problems. As everywhere, you should be alert to your surroundings. Yes, there are extremists in Jakarta, as there are in all large cities world-wide. There have in the past been bombings in Jakarta. Considering the size and income level of Jakarta, it is remarkably crime free. Compared to large American cities, the incidence of violent crime is very low. Of course, robberies can occur so you want to use common sense.
It is likely that there will be hundreds of aftershocks from the earthquake in Indonesia. If you are planning a trip to Jakarta, don't be surprised if you feel a tremor or two... If somebody asked me, is it safe to go to Jakarta right now, I would say yes, but you need to definitely stay aware of the situation. Indonesia has been battling horrific natural disasters over the past month. Just as a 7.7-magnitude earthquake triggered a devastating tsunami off the coast of Sumatra, Mount Merapi began erupting in Central Java.
Some Risk. There is some risk to your security elsewhere in Indonesia, including in Jakarta and Bali, due to the ongoing threat of terrorism. We advise a high degree of caution. Terrorism There is a high threat of terrorism in Indonesia. 
0. Jakarta is the capital city in Indonesia, so expect nothing but the same like any other big city in the world. It has many safe and not safe areas. This is one of the most important thing, have a smile to everybody or be friendly. I am sure you will get great responds. so SMILE, SMILE and SMILE :D We love to smile also. 