1 KENYA: Modern English name derived from the country name which was derived from the name of a mountain, probably from Kiinyaa, the Wakamba tribe's name for the mountain, meaning mountain of the ostrich, because the mountain is said to have certain features of the ostrich when it is snow-covered. 1 BURGUNDY: English name derived from the wine name, from the name of a place in France which got its name from Latin Burgundiones, literally meaning highlanders. May also sometimes be given as a color name.
1 DEDE: African Luo unisex name meaning grasshopper; locust.. 2  DENIZ: Turkish unisex name meaning sea.. 3  DERYA: Turkish unisex form of Persian Darya, meaning ocean.. 4  EBRU: Turkish name derived from ebru, the art of marbling, from Ottoman Turkish ebri, meaning cloud, suggestive of the streaked aspect in marbling. 1 BURGUNDY: English name derived from the wine name, from the name of a place in France which got its name from Latin Burgundiones, literally meaning highlanders. May also sometimes be given as a color name.
What does Dede mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Dede is of Welsh origin. The meaning of Dede is swarthy. It is also of African Ga origin, where its meaning is first born daughter. View the Dede Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Dede has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Dede to other names.
[ 2 syll. de-de, ded-e ] The baby girl name Dede is pronounced D EH-Diy †. Dede's language of origin is African-Ga and Indoeuropean. It is predominantly used in the English language. From African-Ga roots, its meaning is 'first-born daughter'. Dede is a variation (English) of Dee (English and Spanish). Dede is also a variation of Diana.
This list of African baby names has hundreds of names for you to choose from, together with their meanings. You can rate your favorite names add your comments, browse or search and use the most popular baby names tool to find out which are the most popular baby names among our users. 
1 ABILENE: Modern English name derived from Greek Abilēnē, the biblical name of a region belonging to the city of Abila, meaning grassy meadow.. 2  ABUNGU: African Luo name meaning of the forest.. 3  ACHILLEA: Feminine form of Latin Achilleus, possibly meaning he who embodies the grief of the people.. 1 BURGUNDY: English name derived from the wine name, from the name of a place in France which got its name from Latin Burgundiones, literally meaning highlanders. May also sometimes be given as a color name.
DEDE: African Luo unisex name meaning grasshopper; locust. English name possibly derived from Spanish del mar, meaning of the sea This name used to be popular among African Americans. 
Dede is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3896 out of 4276, Top 91%) and an even more prominent last name for both adults and children (#42363 out of 150436, Top 28%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is an analysis of the usage of the girl name Dede and corresponding names. Popular alternative forms of Dede (not in Top 1000) are Deana, Deandra, Deann, Deanna, Dedra, Dee, Deedee, Deidra, Deidre, Deirdre, Dena, Dian, Diana (#297 the previous year) , Diane, Diann, Dianna and Dianne. Dede /dede/ [1 syll.] as a name for girls is of Welsh, Irish, Gaelic and Latin derivation, and the name Dede means swarthy; broken-hearted, sorrowful; divine. Dede is a variant transcription of Dee (Welsh). Dede is also a derivative of Deirdre (Irish, Gaelic): also possibly fear.
In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Dede Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Dede has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Dede to other names. Dede is a variant spelling of De