1 For example, Planned Parenthood in Houston charges $28 for a chlamydia test, and AnyLabTestNow.com charges $89 for a chlamydia urine test or $129 for a combined chlamydia/gonorrhea test. 2  Drugstore.com charges about $13 for a one-week course of the generic antibiotic doxycycline hyclate. 1 Drugstore.com charges about $30 for a one-gram dose of the generic antibiotic azithromycin and about $50 for the brand-name equivalent, Zithromax.
You can treat gonorrhea and chlamydia at the same time; usually different antibiotics are used, but it's possible to use two grams of azithromycin in a single dose. The catch … is that vomiting is common after this treatment, and may require a second treatment. 
Best Answer: Go to your county health department. They usually have free STD treatment. If that is not available, get your perscription filled at Wal Mart or Walgreens. The usual treatment for chlamydia is doxycycline, 100mg twice a day for 7 days, and this is a $4.00 prescription at those stores. Source(s): I'm a Disease Interventions Specialist and work with people with STD's daily. Dis Gal · 7 years ago.
1 The patient's sexual partners must also be tested and treated. 2  If left untreated, chlamydia in women can lead to fallopian tube scarring that can cause infertility, for which in-vitro fertilization typically costs $8,000-$15,000 per cycle. 1 Drugstore.com charges about $30 for a one-gram dose of the generic antibiotic azithromycin and about $50 for the brand-name equivalent, Zithromax.
1 According to a study published in the journal Sexually Transmitted Diseases, the average cost for an episode of chlamydia was $99 for the doctor visit, $44 for the diagnostic test and $36 for the treatment for a total of $179. 1 Drugstore.com charges about $30 for a one-gram dose of the generic antibiotic azithromycin and about $50 for the brand-name equivalent, Zithromax.
If antibiotics are not taken properly, the infection will not be cured. The number of days you take antibiotics depends on your illness and the type of antibiotic medicine. Azithromycin and doxycycline cure chlamydia in up to 95 out of 100 cases. Some people may not be able to take these medicines but are able to take a different one. 1 People who have positive chlamydia tests. 2  Sex partners within the last 60 days of people diagnosed with chlamydia-even if they do not have symptoms. 3  Newborns of women who have chlamydia at the time of delivery.
1 For patients not covered by health insurance, chlamydia diagnosis and treatment typically costs from less than $30-$130 or more for laboratory testing and from less than $15-$50 or more for antibiotics. 1 Drugstore.com charges about $30 for a one-gram dose of the generic antibiotic azithromycin and about $50 for the brand-name equivalent, Zithromax.
1 If not, typical out-of-pocket expenses consist of a laboratory copay of $10 to $30 per test. 2  For patients not covered by health insurance, STD tests done at a doctor's office usually cost $50 to $200 each, depending on the test. 1 For patients covered by health insurance, tests sometimes are done at no charge to the patient. 2 
Yes. Chlamydia is easy to treat. If you have chlamydia, you will need to take antibiotics. One type of chlamydia treatment is taken in one dose. Other kinds of chlamydia treatment must be taken for seven days. Your health care provider can help you decide which is the best treatment for you. Both you and your partner must be treated for chlamydia before you have sex again. That way you can avoid becoming infected again. Some health care providers will give you antibiotics to take home to your partner. They may tell you to be re-tested for chlamydia in 3 to 4 months.