Excessive abdominal gas is a common symptom of lactose intolerance in a toddler. When a carbohydrate such as milk sugar is not digested in the small intestine, bacteria in the large intestine break it down, producing gas.
One of the most common signs and symptoms of lactose intolerance in toddlers is diarrhea. It may be heartening to know that sometimes toddlers have only a temporary phase of lactose intolerance when its body is not creating the sufficient amounts of lactase, and may show the symptoms for at least two weeks.
Lactose is the sugar found in milk and milk products and is sometimes called 'milk sugar'. The symptoms of lactose intolerance include stomach pain and diarrhoea. For children aged seven to 10 years, lactose intolerance is usually treated by avoiding milk or products containing milk or lactose.
Symptoms of lactose intolerance can be mild or severe, depending on how much lactase your body makes. Symptoms usually begin 30 minutes to 2 hours after eating or drinking milk or milk products. If you have lactose intolerance, your symptoms may include: 1  Bloating. 2  Pain or cramps in the lower belly.
Lactose intolerance is a deficiency in the enzyme toddlers need to break down the milk sugar called lactose. Symptoms of lactose intolerance are far more likely to occur in older children and adults, but toddlers can experience temporary or ongoing lactose intolerance symptoms such as gas and diarrhea.
Lactose intolerance is different from milk allergy. Milk allergy is a reaction by the body’s immune system to the proteins found in milk. Most children or adults who are diagnosed with lactose intolerance can digest small amounts of lactose. Generally, 8-10gm of lactose won’t cause symptoms.
Abdominal cramps or pain can also indicate lactose intolerance in a toddler, especially if they occur relatively soon after eating. Some toddlers may experience nausea, although vomiting is uncommon. Symptoms can occur within as little as 30 minutes of eating or drinking high-lactose foods.