the beginning. We opened the first Purple Cactus in Provincetown, Massachusetts in June 1993. Our menu consisted of three kinds of burritos: Rice & Bean, Grilled Chicken and Grilled Steak, served with chips, guacamole and salsa. Our menu has now grown to include fresh, great tasting salads, soups, wraps, quesadillas, nachos and more. Burritos & wraps, salads & more! At The Purple Cactus, we prepare them all with the finest, freshest ingredients: fire-grilled chicken breast, lean marinated steak, juicy poached shrimp & garden fresh vegetables. Just like everything else, we make our guacamole & salsa fresca fresh every day.
Schlumbergera is a small genus of cacti with six species found in the coastal mountains of south-eastern Brazil. Plants grow on trees or rocks in habitats which are generally shady with high humidity and can be quite different in appearance from their desert-dwelling cousins. The genus is one of a small number belonging to a group of cacti classified as the tribe Rhipsalideae. Species of cacti belonging to this group are quite distinct in appearance and habit from most other cacti since they grow on trees or rocks as epiphytes or lithophytes.
One of Jamaica Plain's quicker, cheaper options for healthy meal, the Purple Cactus attracts a suitably eclectic crowd. After choosing a tortilla or wrap (white flour, whole wheat, spinach, red chile), patrons opt for fillings like grilled chicken, roasted vegetables, goat cheese and ginger-peanut sauce. cristymaldonado. Healthy, Flavorful Dishes – Purple Cactus makes it easy for you indulge by offering healthier ingredients like whole wheat or spinach tortillas, brown rice, and low-fat cheese and sour cream.
A cactus (plural, cacti) is a type of succulent plant belonging to the dicotyledonous flowering plant family, Cactaceae. The Cactaceae has around 90 genera and some 1,500 to 1,800 species. Cacti are well-known natives of the Americas, mostly found in desert areas. Facts about Christmas Cactus. 1  Cacti are believed to have evolved in the last 30 to 40 million years ago. 2  Like many tropical cacti, Christmas Cactus is also an epiphyte. 3  The flowers are available in a wide variety of colors including red, purple, orange, pink, fuschia, cream, etc.
Genus Opuntia. Most prickly pear cactus have yellow, red or purple flowers, even among the same species. They vary in height from less than a foot (Plains, Hedgehog, Tuberous) to 6 or 7 feet (Texas, Santa Rita, Pancake). Pads can vary in width, length, shape and color. Video-Prickly pear cactus are found in all of the deserts of the American Southwest. Most prickly pears have large spines on their stems and vary in height from less than a foot to 6 or 7 feet.
Like other cactus, most prickly pears and chollas have large spines -- actually modified leaves -- growing from tubercles -- small, wart-like projections -- on their stems. But members of the Opuntia genus are unique because of their clusters of fine, tiny, barbed spines called glochids. Video-Prickly pear cactus are found in all of the deserts of the American Southwest. Most prickly pears have large spines on their stems and vary in height from less than a foot to 6 or 7 feet.
There's a reason it's called the prickly pear cactus. 1  Find pads that are bright green and firm. 2  Small, young pads harvested in early spring are thought to be the most succulent, delicate in flavor, and have the fewest spines. 3  If you're harvesting them yourself, wear extremely heavy gloves or use tongs. Prickly pear cactus has been a staple of the Mexican and Central American diet for thousands of years. In parts of the U.S. it has been gaining popularity as an exotic, gourmet and healthy addition to one's diet.