You can obtain a divorce in Texas even in the event you are unable to locate your spouse. If you and your spouse have children, an attorney ad litem will have to be appointed to represent your spouse. Texas does not have alimony. In lieu of alimony, Texas has what is referred to as spousal maintenance. Spousal maintenance is temporary and can only be ordered up to a maximum of three years, unless the parties agree otherwise or in cases where one party is disabled.
You can still obtain a divorce in Texas even if your spouse is incarcerated. If your spouse has to be served with citation, your case will no longer be considered uncontested and you will no longer be eligible for a Simple Texas Divorce. Texas does not have alimony. In lieu of alimony, Texas has what is referred to as spousal maintenance. Spousal maintenance is temporary and can only be ordered up to a maximum of three years, unless the parties agree otherwise or in cases where one party is disabled.
Whether you handle your divorce yourself or hire an attorney, there will be extra costs. State courts charge a filing fee for a divorce petition, usually in the neighborhood of $200. If you use a sheriff or private process server to deliver your petition to your spouse, this will cost an additional $35 to $100. In most states, you can bypass this expense if you’re on amicable terms with your spouse. 
Find out what county you need to file your petition in. When you file a petition for divorce, you must do so in a court of law in the county you or your spouse has been a resident of for at least 90 days. This county is where all of your filings, hearings, and other court appearances will take place.
1. Determine if you qualify to file for divorce in Texas. Under Texas law, at least one party to the divorce must have resided in Texas for at least six months prior to the filing of the divorce. In addition, either you or your spouse must have lived in the county where you file for 90 days prior to the date of filing. Also, a divorce in Texas cannot be finalized if the wife is pregnant. If your wife is pregnant, be sure to keep this in mind.
Our 3StepDivorce Online Divorce for Texas is offered with a peace-of-mind 100% guarantee. We offer a 100% guarantee that the documents provided will be accepted by the Texas courts to finalize your divorce. 
1 The requirement only states that one of the spouses has lived in Texas for the required six months. 2  If neither you or your spouse has lived in Texas for the required six months, you will be required to get a divorce elsewhere, or wait to get divorced in Texas until you meet the residency requirements. When you file a petition for divorce, you must do so in a court of law in the county you or your spouse has been a resident of for at least 90 days. This county is where all of your filings, hearings, and other court appearances will take place.
A divorce in Texas takes 61 days from the date of filing. You pay for only the first set of documents ($69.97) that you need to file with the court to start the divorce process. After 30 days you will pay for ($69.97) and receive the second half of the forms. to watch video. The average cost of divorce in the Texas courts is normally between $150 and $300, depending on the county you live in and the services you require. If you are low income, unemployed, or on disability then you can file a Paupers Oath to have your court fees waived
After making the decision to get a divorce in Texas, you will have to go through a process that involves meeting residency requirements and having a valid ground for divorce, finding an attorney (unless you decide to proceed without one), preparing and filing your divorce petition, and finalizing the divorce. When you file a petition for divorce, you must do so in a court of law in the county you or your spouse has been a resident of for at least 90 days. This county is where all of your filings, hearings, and other court appearances will take place.