Amoxicillin, also spelled amoxycillin and amox, is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. It is the first line treatment for middle ear infections. It may also be used for strep throat, pneumonia, skin infections, and urinary tract infections among others. It is taken by mouth. Common side effects include nausea and rash. It may also increase the risk of yeast infections and, when used in combination with clavulanic acid, diarrhea
Penicillins are antibiotic drugs, meaning that they are used to treat infections caused by bacteria and to eliminate the bacteria themselves. Amoxicillin fights bacteria by preventing them from forming cell walls and stopping them from growing. This kills the bacteria and eventually eradicates the infection. As an antibiotic, amoxicillin is used to treat certain infections that have been caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin is used to treat bacterial infections such as bronchitis. The following are conditions that amoxicillin can be prescribed to treat on its own:
Amoxicillin is occasionally used for the treatment of skin infections, such as acne vulgaris. It is often an effective treatment for cases of acne vulgaris that have responded poorly to other antibiotics, such as doxycycline and minocycline. It is the first line treatment for middle ear infections. It may also be used for strep throat, pneumonia, skin infections, and urinary tract infections among others. It is taken by mouth. Common side effects include nausea and rash.
A semisynthetic penicillin antibiotic with an antimicrobial spectrum similar to that of ampicillin. /amox·i·cil·lin/ (ah-mok″sĭ-sil´in) a semisynthetic derivative of ampicillin effective against a broad spectrum of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.
Here are some key points about amoxicillin. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Amoxicillin works by preventing bacteria from growing, and killing them. 2  Amoxicillin can be used to treat infections caused by bacteria but not those caused by viruses. As an antibiotic, amoxicillin is used to treat certain infections that have been caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin is used to treat bacterial infections such as bronchitis. The following are conditions that amoxicillin can be prescribed to treat on its own:
amoxicillin. [əmok′səsil′in]. a beta-lactam semisynthetic oral penicillin antibiotic. indication It is prescribed in the treatment of infections caused by a susceptible gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria. contraindication Known hypersensitivity to any penicillin prohibits its use. amoxicillin. an antibiotic that is a penicillin analogue similar in action to ampicillin but more efficiently absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and therefore requiring less frequent dosage and not as likely to cause diarrhea.
1 Amoxicillin can be used to treat infections caused by bacteria but not those caused by viruses. 2  Amoxicillin can also be used in combination with other medications to treat certain stomach ulcers. 3  Amoxicillin is dispensed in a wide variety of forms, ranging from tablets to liquid drops. As an antibiotic, amoxicillin is used to treat certain infections that have been caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin is used to treat bacterial infections such as bronchitis. The following are conditions that amoxicillin can be prescribed to treat on its own:
amoxicillin. [əmok′səsil′in]. a beta-lactam semisynthetic oral penicillin antibiotic. indication It is prescribed in the treatment of infections caused by a susceptible gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria. contraindication Known hypersensitivity to any penicillin prohibits its use. /amox·i·cil·lin/ (ah-mok″sĭ-sil´in) a semisynthetic derivative of ampicillin effective against a broad spectrum of gram-positive and gram-nega
· just now. Report Abuse. Amoxicillin is an antibiotic in the class of drugs called penicillins. It fights bacteria in your body. It is also used to treat many different types of infections, such as tonsillitis, pneumonia, ear infections, bronchitis, urinary tract infections, gonorrhea, and infections of the skin. Best Answer: it is an antibiotic used for various kinds of infections urinary tract infections skin infections upper respiratory infections etc.