Estimating Wood and Screws for the Deck Surface. If the width of the boards is a inches and the spacing between them is b inches, then the total length of board needed to surface the top part of the deck is. L(12W + b)/(a + b). (feet). If your value for b = 0, then the formula is simply. 12LW/a (feet). 
To get the square footage, all you need to do is multiply the length of the room in feet by the width of the room in feet. For example, a 16 foot long by 14 foot wide room has a square footage of 224. So we will multiply 224 by 15 and we get 3,360 lumens. List of the required lumens per sq foot based on the room type: 
Use the instructions below to help you find the measurements. 1. Measure both the lengths and the heights of the deck that you want to cover. If the area is irregular, fit that area in a rectangle and measure that rectangle for its length and height. Then add the amount into the calculator. 2. 
2[(12W + d)/(x + d)][(12L + j)/j], and compute the number of screws needed for the frame of the deck with the formula. 4(12L +j)/j. Add the two numbers that you get, and this is the approximate number of screws you will need for the entire deck. You may want to factor in an extra 3%. Next, use the following equation to calculate the total length of deck boards needed to construct the top of the deck, L(12W-x)/(x + d) + L. You can use the simplified form, (12WL + dL)/(x + d). Add up the two numbers found in Steps 3 and 4, and this is the total length of board needed to construct the deck.
Convert the actual width of the deck board to a decimal and add 0.13 for the 1/8-inch spacing required between the boards. Divide the result by 12 for the decimal portion of one foot. For example, the decimal portion of a foot for a 5 ½-inch deck board with 1/8-inch spacing is 5.63 divided by 12 which is 0.47. Divide the square footage of the deck by the square feet each deck board will cover. In the example above, each deck board will cover 3.8 feet. If a deck is 484 square feet, round the result of 127.4 up to 128 deck boards.
When planning cost and materials, calculate the number of deck boards required to complete the deck without running out or having a lot left over. The square footage of a deck also plays a role in planning your materials cost for the type of material used for the deck. Divide the square footage of the deck by the square feet each deck board will cover. In the example above, each deck board will cover 3.8 feet. If a deck is 484 square feet, round the result of 127.4 up to 128 deck boards.
You will require 32 rows of decking boards. Next you need to work out the total lineal metres you will require. Multiply the “number of rows” amount by the length of your deck – again ensuring you allow for the fascia and the overhangs on both sides of the deck. I suggest and recommend allowing 10% for waste. The finial calculation is as follows: “Number of decking board rows” x “length of deck in metres” x “1.1″ (multiplying by 1.1 automatically adds on the 10% waste) = total lineal metres. Using the previous example your calculation would be: 32 x 5 x 1.1 = 176 lineal metres.
Overview. When planning cost and materials, calculate the number of deck boards required to complete the deck without running out or having a lot left over. The square footage of a deck also plays a role in planning your materials cost for the type of material used for the deck. Step 4. Convert the actual width of the deck board to a decimal and add 0.13 for the 1/8-inch spacing required between the boards. Divide the result by 12 for the decimal portion of one foot. For example, the decimal portion of a foot for a 5 ½-inch deck board with 1/8-inch spacing is 5.63 divided by 12 which is 0.47.
Multiply the number of joists needed along its length you calculated first by the number of joists needed to make a full length joist along the width of the floor and that will be the total amount of joists needed. On the outside edge along the floors length you will need 2″ X 10″ etc.. 