The tunica adventitia is the outermost layer of the arteries and veins. The word 'adventitia' in tunica adventitia comes from the Latin 'adventicius,' which means 'coming from outside.' This strong outer layer is composed of connective tissue that allows the blood vessel to withstand forces acting on the vessel wall. All arteries and veins contain three layers. The innermost layer is called the tunica intima. The muscular middle layer is called the tunica media, and the outermost layer is called the tunica adventitia.
The walls of arteries and veins are composed of endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells and extracellular matrix (including collagen and elastin). These are arranged into three concentric layers: intima, media and adventitia. The intima is the inner layer abutting the vessel lumen. 
The collagen serves to anchor the blood vessel to nearby organs, giving it stability. The tunicae of blood vessels are three layers: an inner, middle, and outer layer that are called, respectively, the tunica intima, the tunica media, and the tunica externa (or tunica adventitia). 
Capillaries. 1. Microscopic vessels that carry blood from small arteries (arterioles) to small veins (venules). 2. They connect arterioles to venules. 3. The capillary wall is composed of only single layers of cells (endothelium) 4. They have no tunica media or adventitia. 5. 1. The tunica media (middle layer) contain more elastic fibers (hence the name elastic) than smooth muscle smooth muscle 2. These vessels will conduct (hence the name conducting) blood to the muscular arteries 3. They are designated large because the diameter is larger than the medium sized arteries.
connective The outer layer of a blood vessel (artery or vein) is called the tunica externa or tunica adventitia. See http://training.seer.cancer.gov/module_anatomy/unit7_3_ca … rdvasc_blood1_classification.html pericardium is the layer of the blood vessel that is made of tough  connective tissue. 
1. Microscopic vessels that carry blood from small arteries (arterioles) to small veins (venules). 2. They connect arterioles to venules. 3. The capillary wall is composed of only single layers of cells (endothelium) 4. They have no tunica media or adventitia. 1. The tunica media (middle layer) contain more elastic fibers (hence the name elastic) than smooth muscle smooth muscle 2. These vessels will conduct (hence the name conducting) blood to the muscular arteries 3. They are designated large because the diameter is larger than the medium sized arteries.
Hello, The arteries and veins have different structures, veins having two layers and arteries having three. Tunica intima is the innermost/ tunic media the middle one and tunica adventitia is the outermost. The outermost layer {tunica adventitia} is made of connective tissue. It contains nerves that supply the vessel and tiny nutrient capillaries (vasa vasorum) in the larger blood vessels. Best.
The tunica media is the middle layer of the wall of a blood vessel. It is made up of smooth muscle cells and sheets of elastic tissue that help regulate blood flow in the body … by causing the blood vessel to narrow or widen. In arteries the outer margin of the tunica intima cointains a thick layer of elastic fibers called the internal elastic membrane. 2.Tunica media (Latin for middle coat) is the middle layer. Contains concentric sheets of smooth muscle tissue in a framework of loose connective tissue.
1 Tunica adventitia : (the thickest layer in veins) entirely made of connective tissue. 2  It also contains nerves that supply the vessel as well as nutrient capillaries (vasa vasorum) in the larger blood vessels. There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart.