2 Ivory Salt cellar showing European traders and their ship Benin, Nigeria 17th century AD. 3 Benin: an African kingdom Objects from the Royal Palace Until the late 19th century, one of the major powers in West Africa was the kingdom of Benin in what is now southwest Nigeria. When European merchant ships began to visit West Africa from the 15th century onwards, Benin came to control the trade between the inland peoples and the Europeans on the coast. When the British tried to expand their own trade in the 19th century, the Benin people killed their envoys.
In the south, rice, corn, and manioc are the primary starches; millet, sorghum, and yams are preferred in central and northern communities. Sauces may contain okra, tomatoes, pumpkin seeds, peanuts, eggplant, peppers, and other vegetables. Legumes may be made into side dishes. Food in Daily Life. Even in many urban areas, cooking is done outside or, when it rains, in a separate room or shelter. Women and girls cook family meals, although more young men are learning to cook. Because many homes do not have refrigeration, most people go to the market several times a week to purchase food.
The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo, but the seat of government is in Cotonou, the country's largest city and economic capital. Benin covers an area of approximately 115,000 square kilometers (42,000 sq mi), with a population of approximately 9.98 million. Benin is a member of the United Nations, the African Union, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone, La Francophonie, the Community of Sahel-Saharan States, the African Petroleum Producers Association and the Niger Basin Authority.
In southern Benin cuisine, the most common ingredient is corn, often used to prepare dough which is mainly served with peanut-or tomato-based sauces. Fish and chicken are the most common meats used in southern Beninese cuisine, but beef, pork, goat and bush rat are also consumed. Yams are the main staple in the northern Benin, and are also often served with peanut-or tomato-based sauces. The population in the northern provinces uses beef and pork meat which is also fried in palm or peanut oil or cooked in sauces.
Identification. Before 1975, the Republic of Benin was known as Dahomey, its French colonial name. Three years after the coup that brought Major Kerekou kérékou to, power the name was changed to The'people S republic Of, benin reflecting The-Marxist leninist ideology of the new. government Food in Daily Life. Even in many urban areas, cooking is done outside or, when it rains, in a separate room or shelter. Women and girls cook family meals, although more young men are learning to cook. Because many homes do not have refrigeration, most people go to the market several times a week to purchase food.
Starches. The use of starches as the primary filler is characteristic of every West African nation. Starchy plants are plentiful and easy to grow, which makes them inexpensive. They provide simple carbohydrates for a quick energy source and also expand in the stomach somewhat, easing hunger with less food. Vegetables. As with the region's fruit production, tropical, sun-loving vegetables grow easily in West Africa. Bell peppers, tomatoes, okra, herbs, onions and tough greens--such as Swiss chard, mustard and cabbage--are main components of cooked stews, rice dishes and sides.
If you are going to grow grains, you will need barns which will keep your stored harvest dry and safe from insects and vermin. It is likely that if you intend to produce all of the food you consume for yourself, you will find that a combination of storage and preservation methods will be useful. Become familiar with the different types of food crops. We often think of the vegetables we see in the produce section of a market as the garden vegetables, and in a sense, this is true, but to truly grow your own food, you need to consider your whole diet.
Chlorophyll makes it possible for plants to capture the energy of sunlight and use it to make food (sugars and starches) from air and water. Unlike plants, molds and other fungi have no chlorophyll and can't make their own food. The molds that grow in your mold terrarium feed on the bread, cheese, and other foods. Cut bigger foods such as bread or cheese into 1-inch chunks. Dip each piece of food into some water and put it into your container. If you use a big jar, lay it on its side. Try to spread the pieces out so that they are close to each other, but not all in a heap. Put the lid on the
Benin (/bɨˈniːn/ bǝ-NEEN or /bɨˈnɪn/ bǝ-NIN; French: Benin), bénin officially The republic Of (Benin: French republique République) du benin Bénin, and formerly dahomey is A Country. In west africa it Is bordered by togo, To the west nigeria, to The East and Burkina faso and niger. to the north Benin is a member of the United Nations, the African Union, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone, La Francophonie, the Community of Sahel-Saharan States, the African Petroleum Producers Association and the Niger Basin Authority.