Estuaries are bodies of water along our coasts that are formed when fresh water from rivers flows into and mixes with salt water from the ocean. In estuaries, the fresh river water is blocked from streaming into the open ocean by either surrounding mainland, peninsulas, barrier islands, or fringing salt marshes. Types of Estuaries. Every estuary is different. Some are deep and some are shallow. Some have big areas and some are quite small. Some have large openings to the sea and others have small openings. Some have rivers that input lots of fresh water while others have rivers with only trickles of fresh water.
Estuaries Classified by Geologic Features. Estuaries can be described by how they were formed or by the characteristics of their circulation. This classification of estuaries is based on geologic features. Classifications include coastal plain estuaries, tectonic estuaries, bar-built estuaries, and fjords. 
The salinity of estuarine water varies from estuary to estuary, and can change from one day to the next depending on the tides, weather, or other factors (Levinton, 1995.). Estuaries are transitional areas that straddle the land and the sea, as well as freshwater and saltwater habitats. Truly, no two estuaries are the same. Yet they are typically classified based on two characteristics: their geology and how saltwater and fresh water mix in them. However, not all estuaries contain brackish waters. There are a small number of ecosystems classified as freshwater estuaries.
An estuary is a partially enclosed body of water formed where freshwater from rivers and streams flows into the ocean, mixing with the salty sea water. Estuaries and the lands surrounding them are places of transition from land to sea, and from fresh to salt water. The productivity and variety of estuarine habitats foster a wonderful abundance and diversity of wildlife. Shore birds, fish, crabs and lobsters, marine mammals, clams and other shellfish, marine worms, sea birds, and reptiles are just some of the animals that make their homes in and around estuaries.
An estuary is a partly enclosed coastal body of brackish water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it, and with a free connection to the open sea. Estuaries form a transition zone between river environments and maritime environments. An estuary is a dynamic ecosystem with a connection with the open sea through which the sea water enters with the rhythm of the tides. The sea water entering the estuary is diluted by the fresh water flowing from rivers and streams.
American Wigeon The Shiner Perch is one of the most common fishes in an estuary. They feed on Zoo Plankton. Shiner Perch are deep bodied with a dusky greenish back. Shiner Perch Estuary Definition An estuary is a coastal body of water, partially surrounded by land, in which freshwater and salt water mix. 
The defining feature of an estuary is the mixing of fresh and salt water, not the name.) Some familiar examples of estuaries include San Francisco Bay, Puget Sound, Chesapeake Bay, Boston Harbor, and Tampa Bay. The productivity and variety of estuarine habitats foster a wonderful abundance and diversity of wildlife. Shore birds, fish, crabs and lobsters, marine mammals, clams and other shellfish, marine worms, sea birds, and reptiles are just some of the animals that make their homes in and around estuaries.
Estuaries are one of the most productive ecosystems in the world, so there is a great diversity of animals and plants that live there. A flock of birds in the water at the Elkhorn Slough Reserve in California. Estuaries—areas where fresh and saltwater mix—are made up of many different types of habitats. These habitats can include oyster reefs, coral reefs, rocky shores, submerged aquatic vegetation, marshes, and mangroves. 
Estuaries are unique places that are valuable to the environment and to society. Estuaries are places like no other. Each with its own specific characteristics, but all playing vital roles in the environment and in our lives. Some examples of estuaries’ unique and important features are: Each estuary can make up an individual ecosystem. Look on a world map. 
(Photo: Elkhorn Slough NERRS site). An estuary is a partially enclosed body of water, and its surrounding coastal habitats, where saltwater from the ocean mixes with fresh water from rivers or streams. In fresh water the concentration of salts, or salinity, is nearly zero. The salinity of water in the ocean averages about 35 parts per thousand (ppt). Truly, no two estuaries are the same. Yet they are typically classified based on two characteristics: their geology and how saltwater and fresh water mix in them. However, not all estuaries contain brackish waters. There are a small number of ecosystems classified as freshwater estuaries.