Video: Biceps curl with dumbbell. Edward R. Laskowski, M.D: The biceps curl is an exercise you can do with dumbbells to build strength in your upper arm. Specifically, the biceps curl works the muscles in the front of the upper arm. Nicole L. Campbell: To do a biceps curl with a dumbbell, hold a dumbbell with your palm facing upward. Slowly curl the weight up by bending your elbow, keeping your elbow close to your body. Then slowly lower the weight to the starting position. You'll feel tension in the muscles in the front of your
Pain in the elbow and forearm are common when performing a bicep curl. This video helps you understand some of the reasons you may be experiencing pain when you curl. http://www.youtube.com/user/shapingyo... 
Yea, I do Rope or Hammer Curls one with about every bicep routine. Today was 4X15 Hammers superset with 4X12 of Machine Curls.... I never thought about a banana neccesarily because it doesn't cramp until 3-4 hrs later... but will the rest of the day once they start. Re: Mad Forearm cramps/spasms after bicep workout. « Reply #5 on: September 06, 2013, 11:50:46 AM ». I use to get these a lot and it was very pain full. I would get it mainly in the left forearm. As soon as I got home I would have to eat 1 or 2 bananas right away.
The biceps brachii muscle is a two-part muscle in your upper arm. When it tightens, it bends the elbow. One head of the biceps brachii connects to the front of your shoulder so it also helps move the arm across your chest. The biceps femoris is another two-part muscle, part of the hamstrings in the back of your thigh. Besides overuse, muscle cramps can stem from dehydration, diuretic medications or an imbalance of the minerals calcium, magnesium and potassium. There are two sets of muscles called biceps in the human body: biceps brachii in the arm and biceps femoris in the leg.
Located in the front of your arm between your shoulder and elbow, your bicep is a split muscle that works in isolation and assists your back muscles. The primary action is to flex, or bend your elbow, bringing your forearm toward your upper arm. In addition, your biceps help your back pull things toward you and helps lift your upper arm. A secondary bicep movement is to supinate or turn your wrist bringing your palm up. Basic bicep exercises include curls and pull-ups or chin-ups.
For biceps muscles in the arm or leg, straightening the limb stretches the muscle. You can indirectly stretch a cramped muscle by contracting the opposing muscle. For a biceps femoris cramp, tighten your quadriceps muscles and straighten your leg. Besides overuse, muscle cramps can stem from dehydration, diuretic medications or an imbalance of the minerals calcium, magnesium and potassium. There are two sets of muscles called biceps in the human body: biceps brachii in the arm and biceps femoris in the leg.
Re: Mad Forearm cramps/spasms after bicep workout. « Reply #3 on: September 06, 2013, 11:41:21 AM ». Dude i get forearm cramps all the time, i dont really get them unless I do hammer curls, rope curls, or any type of wrist curl. The best way to help with this is a banana and alot of water. Re: Mad Forearm cramps/spasms after bicep workout. « Reply #5 on: September 06, 2013, 11:50:46 AM ». I use to get these a lot and it was very pain full. I would get it mainly in the left forearm. As soon as I got home I would have to eat 1 or 2 bananas right away.
Re: Mad Forearm cramps/spasms after bicep workout. « Reply #4 on: September 06, 2013, 11:44:57 AM ». Dude i get forearm cramps all the time, i dont really get them unless I do hammer curls, rope curls, or any type of wrist curl. Re: Mad Forearm cramps/spasms after bicep workout. « Reply #5 on: September 06, 2013, 11:50:46 AM ». I use to get these a lot and it was very pain full. I would get it mainly in the left forearm. As soon as I got home I would have to eat 1 or 2 bananas right away.