Armature reaction is response generated by armature of motor or generator to the change in the flux linked with it.This is the main cause for back emf in motors.The armature reaction generates eddy currents in the armature which may result in losses in the machine. Thus armature reaction distort the magnetic flux and lead the applied field not radial which changes the efficiency of the output of the dc generator or dc motor.Inorder to minimise the armature reaction, two simple methods can be taken up -1.
1 Armature reaction weakens the main flux. 2  In case of generator, weakening of the main flux reduces the generated voltage. 3  Armature reaction distorts the main flux, hence the position of M.N.A. gets shifted (M.N.A. is perpendicular to the flux lines of main field flux). 1 In case of generator, weakening of the main flux reduces the generated voltage. 2
In a DC machine, two kinds of magnetic fluxes are present; 'armature flux' and 'main field flux'. The effect of armature flux on the main field flux is called as armature reaction. The effect of armature reaction is well illustrated in the figure below. Now, consider there is no current in armature conductors, and only field winding is supplied (as shown in the first figure in above image). 1 In case of generator, weakening of the main flux reduces the generated voltage. 2  Armature reaction distorts the main flux, hence the position of M.N.A. gets shifted (M.N.A. is perpendicular to the flux lines of main field flux).
A DC armature. In electrical engineering, an armature generally refers to one of the two principal electrical components of an electromechanical machine — generally in a motor or generator — but it may also mean the pole piece of a permanent magnet or electromagnet, or the moving iron part of a solenoid or relay. In a DC machine, the main field is produced by field coils. In both the generating and motoring modes, the armature carries current and a magnetic field is established, which is called the armature flux. The effect of armature flux on the main field is called the armature reaction.
Armature reaction is the interaction between the magnetic flux produced by armature current and that of the main magnetic field in an electric motor or generator. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Dealing with an Allergic Reaction to a Mosquito Mosquitoes are flying, biting insects that feed on human blood. armature reaction means when load is added to the armature then current is passed through armature conductors then in armature creates flux. It is demagnetize and cross magnetize the main field flux. in other ward it is effect of armature field on main fiel
What is ARMATURE REACTION? Reaction or interaction between the magnetic field produced by the armature current and the main magnetic field in an electric motor or D.C. genarator. ARMATURE REACTION: Armature reaction causes the neutral plane..
1 Yes. 0 No. ansh kohli. Answer. # 9. armature reaction is the effect of armature flux on main flux.all current carrying conductors produces magnetic field.the magnetic field produced by the current in the armature affect the flux pattern and distort the main flux and distortion causes a shift in the neutral plane. 
Author: Sudhir 18 Dec 2010 Member Level: Silver Points: 3 (Rs 3) Voting Score: 0Armature reaction is the reaction or intereaction between the magnetic field produced by the flowing of current in the rectangular coil wound on the armature and the main magnetic field of the D.C. genarator or the motor. Thus armature reaction distort the magnetic flux and lead the applied field not radial which changes the efficiency of the output of the dc generator or dc motor.Inorder to minimise the armature reaction, two simple methods can be taken up -1.
Armature reaction is essential in Amplidyne rotating amplifiers. Armature reaction drop is the effect of a magnetic field on the distribution of the flux under main poles of a generator. Since an armature is wound with coils of wire, a magnetic field is set up in the armature whenever a current flows in the coils. In a DC machine, the main field is produced by field coils. In both the generating and motoring modes, the armature carries current and a magnetic field is established, which is called the armature flux. The effect of armature flux on the main field is called the armature reaction.