Connotative language is basically the use of figurative language.It's to use a word with adefinite mean to refer to another mean.For example when you called someone a chicken … that means that he is a coward. It is to give a connotation* to a word or phrase, alternate to its actual, literal meaning. * refers to the literal meaning of a word   * refers to the emotional associations of a word   * refers to the emotional attitude of the author towards his subject … . + 2 others found this useful.
connotative language is a rhetorical device that author uses to evoke specific kind of emotion or attitude towards the subject matter. * refers to the literal meaning of a word   * refers to the emotional associations of a word   * refers to the emotional attitude of the author towards his subject … . + 2 others found this useful.
The connotative anddenotativemeanings of words are both correct, but a word’s connotation determines when it is used. By definition, synonyms have the same denotation or literal meaning, but almost always have different connotations, or shades of meaning. Let’s use the word “home” as an example. The denotative or literal meaning of “home” is “ a place where one lives; a residence.” Hint: Denotation, denotative, definition, and dictionary all start with the letter ‘D.
Connote redirects here. For Connote number, see Waybill. A connotation is a commonly understood cultural or emotional association that some word or phrase carries, in addition to the word's or phrase's explicit or literal meaning, which is its denotation. 
Connotation Definition. Connotation refers to a meaning that is implied by a word apart from the thing which it describes explicitly. Words carry cultural and emotional associations or meanings in addition to their literal meanings or denotations. For example, the words childish, childlike and youthful have the same denotative but different connotative meanings. Childish and childlike have a negative connotation as they refer to immature behavior of a person. Whereas, youthful implies that a person is lively and energetic.
Best Answer: Connotative language is basically the use of figurative language. To say someone is green with envy, we know that they are not really green because of envy, but we get the idea that they are really jealous of something. *(connotation: the associated or secondary meaning of a word or expression in addition to its explicit or primary meaning: A possible connotation of “home” is “a place of warmth, comfort, and affection.”). Source(s): dictionary.com English and Writing classes. Steve the Linguist · 6 years ago
When you look up a word in the dictionary, you will find its literal (denotative) meaning. However, the emotions and associations connected to a word is known as its connotative meaning. Depending on our experiences, certain words have a positive, negative, or neutral connotation. Understanding a word's literal (denotative) and suggestive (connotative) meanings is important for every speaker and writer.
Denotative refers to the literal meaning/definition of the word while connotative refers to the imagery or feelings you get towards the word. The word dumbness for example, de … notes the condition of being mute, and it connotes the condition of being stupid.. Connotative language would add emotional coloring to the same statement: The house is as large as a fine restaurant, or The house is as large as our city dump.. Both those statements are saying the house is large, but with different feelings associated with the statements.
The denotative definition of a word refers to its literal meaning  while the connotative definition expands into any emotional or  other associations that the word causes in … the reader. An example  would be the word eagle.. Connotative language would add emotional coloring to the same statement: The house is as large as a fine restaurant, or The house is as large as our city dump.. Both those statements are saying the house is large, but with different feelings associated with the statements.