The Kit includes the Dual function meter, batteries, Glucose test strips, Hemoglobin test strips, Check strips, Lancing Device, lancets, User Manual, Log book, Quick reference guide and carry pouch. The blood sample required is whole capillary blood from any finger. The sample amount needed for Glucose is approximately .8μL and for Hemoglobin is 2.6μL. Results for Glucose are available in 6 secs and for Hemoglobin in 6 secs. The Meter will identify the strips automatically and has a memory capacity of 200 readings for Glucose and 100 readings for Hemoglobin. The meter comes with a two year warranty. 
Simply add a drop of blood to the test strip, and the result is displayed on the screen in six seconds. Test Principle: Hemoglobin measurements are based on electrical current changes caused by the reaction of hemoglobin with the reagent on the electrode of the strip. Items in the package: 1. EasyLife® Hb Meter 5. If “X” appears on the screen, remove the check strip and reinsert it. If “X” is displayed again, call customer support. Do not test until the meter is working properly. Use the check strip to check the meter when: - You use the EasyLife® Hb Monitoring System for the first time.
The EasyLife® Hb Meter can measure your hemoglobin in g/dL or mmol/L. Just adjust the switch in the battery compartment: Inserting the Batteries: 1. Remove the battery cover on the back of the meter. 2. Insert two AAA batteries into the battery compartment. If “X” appears on the screen, remove the check strip and reinsert it. If “X” is displayed again, call customer support. Do not test until the meter is working properly. Use the check strip to check the meter when: - You use the EasyLife® Hb Monitoring System for the first time.
Hemoglobin Testing 1.The first time you use the EasyLife® Hb Meter or open a new test strip vial, insert the code key from the test strip vial. Each test strip vial contains one code key. Make sure the number on the code key matches the code number on the vial of test strips you use. If “X” appears on the screen, remove the check strip and reinsert it. If “X” is displayed again, call customer support. Do not test until the meter is working properly. Use the check strip to check the meter when: - You use the EasyLife® Hb Monitoring System for the first time.
1 2 3 4 5 6. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Top Rated Plus. Learn More. Tell us what you think. Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
Low hemoglobin with low RBC count and low hematocrit indicates anemia. Some causes include: 1  Excessive loss of blood from, for example, severe trauma or chronic bleeding from sites such as the digestive tract (e.g., ulcers, polyps, colon cancer), the bladder or uterus (in women, heavy menstrual bleeding, for example). High hemoglobin with a high RBC count and high hematocrit indicates polycythemia. Some causes include: 1  Lung (pulmonary) disease —if someone is unable to breathe in and absorb sufficient oxygen, the body tries to compensate by producing more red blood cells.
Intended Use: The EasyLife® Hb Monitoring System is designed for in vitro diagnostic use only (external use only), and is suitable for self-testing. The system is for healthcare professionals and persons with anemia to measure hemoglobin. If “X” appears on the screen, remove the check strip and reinsert it. If “X” is displayed again, call customer support. Do not test until the meter is working properly. Use the check strip to check the meter when: - You use the EasyLife® Hb Monitoring System for the first time.
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. High hemoglobin with a high RBC count and high hematocrit indicates polycythemia. Some causes include: 1  Lung (pulmonary) disease —if someone is unable to breathe in and absorb sufficient oxygen, the body tries to compensate by producing more red blood cells.