Pancreas. a glandular organ in the digestive system and endocrine system of vertebrates. It's both an endocrine gland producing several important hormones, including insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide, and a digestive organ, secreting ... en​.wikipedia​.org​/wiki​/Pancreas. Wikipedia:
Save. pancreas /ˈpaeŋkrijəs/ ˈpæŋkrijəs. noun plural. pancreases. /pancreas/. ˈpaeŋkrijəs. ˈpæŋkrijəs noun. Plural'pancreases learner s DEFINITION. [of]. : pancreas count a large gland of the body that is near the stomach and that produces insulin and other substances that help the body — digest food see picture. at human : a large gland of the body that is near the stomach and that produces insulin and other substances that help the body digest food — see picture at human.
Definition of PANCREAS for Kids. : a large gland near the stomach that produces insulin and a fluid (pancreatic juice) with enzymes that aid digestion. Full Definition of PANCREAS. : a large lobulated gland of vertebrates that secretes digestive enzymes and the hormones insulin and glucagon. — pan·cre·at·ic \ˌpaŋ-krē-ˈa-tik, ˌpan-\ adjective. See pancreas defined for English-language learners. See pancreas defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
pancreas. noun. A long, irregularly shaped gland in vertebrates, lying behind the stomach, that secretes pancreatic juice into the duodenum and insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin into the bloodstream. Greek pankreas: pan- , pan- + kreas, flesh; see kreu&schwa;- in Indo-European roots. 1 This group is represented by the erepsin of the pancreas and other organs. 2  A third enzyme, the trypsin of the pancreas, possesses the power of both pepsin and erepsin.
pancreatic adjective. › ​relating to the ​pancreas (= the ​organ in the ​body that ​produces ​insulin): pancreatic ​cancer. (Definition of pancreatic from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). Browse. 1  Pancake Day. How many is a billion? The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States.
pancreas. a large, elongated gland situated behind the stomach and secreting a digestive juice (pancreatic juice) into the small intestine: groups of differentiated cells (islets of Langerhans) in the gland produce the hormone insulin: the pancreas of animals, used as food, is usually called sweetbread. 1 This group is represented by the erepsin of the pancreas and other organs. 2  A third enzyme, the trypsin of the pancreas, possesses the power of both pepsin and erepsin.
pancreas | pancreatic. an organ in the body that produces insulin (a chemical substance that controls the amount of sugar in the blood) and substances which help to digest ... dictionary​.cambridge​.org​/dictionary​/british​/pancreas. Wikipedia: a glandular organ in the digestive system and endocrine system of vertebrates. It's both an endocrine gland producing several important hormones, including insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide, and a digestive organ, secreting ...
pancreas | pancreatic. a large, elongated gland situated behind the stomach and secreting a digestive juice (pancreatic juice) into the small intestine: groups of ... Wikipedia: a glandular organ in the digestive system and endocrine system of vertebrates. It's both an endocrine gland producing several important hormones, including insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide, and a digestive organ, secreting ...
Learner's definition of PANCREAS. [count]. : a large gland of the body that is near the stomach and that produces insulin and other substances that help the body digest food — see picture at human. /ˌpaeŋkriˈaetɪk/ ˌpæŋkriˈætɪk. adjective