As intra-vascular volume drops, peripheral vessels squeeze down, shunting blood to central/larger vessels in an effort to preserve vital functions (brain, heart, lungs). The heart rate increase is triggered by 1) baro-receptors that sense a decrease in pressure and 2) chemo-receptors that sense changes in oxygenation. Increased respiration triggered by pH changes (decreased peripheral circulation) and decreased Oxygen.
Respiratory rate is the vital sign least often recorded and most frequently completely omitted from hospital documentation. A raised respiratory rate is a strong and specific predictor of serious adverse events such as cardiac arrest and unplanned intensive care unit admission.
The level of documentation of vital signs in many hospitals is extremely poor, and respiratory rate, in particular, is often not recorded. There is substantial evidence that an abnormal respiratory rate is a predictor of potentially serious clinical events.
acidosis. 1. the accumulation of acid and hydrogen ions or depletion of the alkaline reserve (bicarbonate content) in the blood and body tissues, resulting in a decrease in pH. 2. a pathologic condition resulting from this process, characterized by increase in hydrogen ion concentration (decrease in pH).
3.1.2 All patients should have vital signs (respiratory rate, pulse, blood pressure, temperature and level of consciousness) recorded on admission and then three times/day (TDS) as a minimum (excluding those patients as outlined in 3.2.6).
The respiration rate is the number of breaths a person takes per minute. The rate is usually measured when a person is at rest and simply involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises.
It is important to note that not all causes of hypoxia and hypercarbia result in an increase in tidal volume and respiratory rate. Medications such as opiates, which are commonly used in hospitals, depress the respiratory drive and the respiratory response to hypoxia and hypercarbia.
Respiratory acidosis is primary increase in P co 2 with or without compensatory increase in HCO 3 − ; pH is usually low but may be near normal. Cause is a decrease in respiratory rate, volume (hypoventilation), or both due to CNS, pulmonary, or iatrogenic conditions.
Such systems help to raise and sustain awareness of the importance of vital signs. R ecording a full set of vital signs (pulse rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate and temperature) at least daily is considered standard for monitoring patients on acute hospital wards.