Fewer than 10% of U.S. girls start to menstruate before 11 years of age, and 90% of all US girls are menstruating by 13.75 years of age, with a median age of 12.43 years. This age at menarche is not much different (0.34 years earlier) than that reported for U.S. girls in 1973. The average age of menarche is about 12.5 years in the United States, 12.72 in Canada, 12.9 in the UK and 13.06 ± 0.10 years in Iceland. A study on girls in Istanbul, Turkey found the median age at menarche to be 12.74 years.
Typically, you'll start your periods about two years after your breasts start growing and about a year after getting a white vaginal discharge. The average girl will get her first period around 12 years old, but it varies from person to person. 
In the United States, the average age for a girl to get her first period is 12. This does not mean that all girls start at the same age. A girl can start her period anytime between the ages of 8 and 15. Most of the time, the first period starts about 2 years after breasts first start to develop. If a girl has not had her first period by age 15, or if it has been more than 2 to 3 years since breast growth started, she should see a doctor.
Getty. Menstruation is a part of most women's lives for years (and years): Menopause typically begins around age 50, and girls in the U.S. tend to get their periods somewhere between 12 and 13 -- although puberty is beginning at younger and younger ages. 
Next comes the pubertal growth spurt. Lastly, menstruation begins (called menarche), on average, 2-2.5 years after the onset of puberty. The mean age for a girl’s first period is 12.75 years. Wide variations are seen in the sequence and timing of these events, but peak growth velocity (fastest growth rate) always precedes menarche. Now for the crucial information: The earlier before age 12 a girl starts her period, the higher her lifetime risk for breast cancer (probably from the prolonged estrogen exposure). The highest average risk for breast cancer is in non-Hispanic white women, where it is 1 in 8, or 12.5%.
In the United States, the average age for a girl to get her first period is 12. This does not mean that all girls start at the same age. A girl can start her period anytime between the ages of 8 and 15. Most of the time, the first period starts about 2 years after breasts first start to develop. If a girl has not had her first period by age 15, or if it has been more than 2 to 3 years since breast growth started, she should see a doctor. It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens.
Confidence votes 357. The average age is 12, but this does not mean that all girls start at the same age. A girl can start her period anytime between the ages of eight and 15. Usually, the first period starts about two years after breasts first start to grow. If a girl has not had her first period by age 15, or if it has been more than two to three years since breast growth started, she should see a doctor.
But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart. It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens.
Though the thought of a 6 th grader becoming physically able to get pregnant is the stuff of most parents ' nightmares, it's not as uncommon as you might think. The national average age for a girl to get her first period is 12, and girls can start as early as age 8. Why so young? No one would argue that an 11-year-old is emotionally capable of raising a child. Why would female biology be seemingly so far ahead of psychology when it comes to sexual maturity? 