At the base of the Food Guide Pyramid are breads, cereals,rice, and pasta — all foods from grains. You need the mostservings of these foods each day.4 5 Looking at the Pieces of the Pyramid This level includes foods that comefrom plants – vegetables andfruits. These foods are important for protein, calcium, iron, and zinc.The small tip of the Pyramid shows fats, oils, and sweets. These are foods such as salad dressings and oils, cream,butter, margarine, sugars, soft drinks, candies, and sweetdesserts.
The new MyPyramid uses the same basic food groups, but it arranges them in a way that shows which ones we should be eating more of, and which we should eat less of: 1  The pyramid is made up of vertical stripes. 2  From left to right, the major food pyramid sections are: Grains, Vegetables, Fruits, Milk, and Meat & Beans. 1 The pyramid is made up of vertical stripes. 2  The widest sections are filled with the foods we should get plenty of every day, while the narrower sections represent foods we should eat less of. 3
Use Sparingly: Red Meat and Butter. To the left at the top of the Healthy Eating Pyramid you will find red meat and butter. It has the smallest section of the food pyramid because you should eat less red meat and butter. Red meat and butter contain lots of saturated fat and may increase your risk of colon cancer. Fish, Poultry and Eggs. Fish, poultry and eggs are included in the food pyramid because they are rich in protein. Chicken and turkey are also good sources of protein and are low in saturated fat. Research suggests that you can reduce the risk of heart disease if you eat fish rich in omega-3 fats.
Eat Moderately. The Eat Moderately section of the pyramid includes the foods we should eat often, but in limited quantities. These are the high protein foods such as lean meats, poultry, fish, eggs, nuts, milk, cheese and yogurt. Reduced-fat dairy foods are the best choice. Eat Most. The Eat Most section of the pyramid includes the foods we should it eat the greatest quantities. They should be our main source of energy, fibre, vitamins and minerals. These include fruit and vegetables, legumes (peas, beans, lentils) breads and wholegrain cereals.
The food pyramid was designed to offer an easy-to-understand look at healthy eating, but for the average person it's too simplistic, vague, and sometimes way off. Here's how food pyramids work and how you can actually use them in your day-to-day eating. The food pyramid has undergone quite a few revisions since it was created, both official and third-party, but we're going to look at the two most notable. (Click to enlarge.). In April 2005, the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) decided to update the food guide pyramid with what you see above.
The eatwell plate shows that to have a healthy, balanced diet, people should try to eat: 1  plenty of fruit and vegetables. 2  plenty of starchy foods, such as bread, rice, potatoes and pasta. 3  some meat, fish, eggs, beans and other non-dairy sources of protein. 4  some milk and dairy foods. A diet based on starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, rice and pasta; with plenty of fruit and vegetables; some protein-rich foods such as meat, fish and lentils; some milk and dairy foods; and not too much fat, salt or sugar, will give you all the nutrients you need.
REMEMBER: The recommended food amounts in this section are approximate, and are only for pre-teens, not for children, high-schoolers, or adults. The true amount of food you should eat from each pyramid group depends on your age, gender, and the amount of exercise you get each day. 1 The pyramid is made up of vertical stripes. 2  The widest sections are filled with the foods we should get plenty of every day, while the narrower sections represent foods we should eat less of. 3  From left to right, the major food pyramid sections are: Grains, Vegetables, Fruits, Milk, and Meat & Beans.
Most people need to eatmore of these foods for thevitamins, minerals, andfiber they supply.On this level of the Food Guide Pyramid aretwo groups of foods that come mostly from animals: milk, yogurt, and cheese; andmeat, poultry, fish, dry beans, eggs, andnuts. These foods are important for protein, calcium, iron, and zinc.The small tip of the Pyramid shows fats, oils, and sweets. These are foods such as salad dressings and oils, cream,butter, margarine, sugars, soft drinks, candies, and sweetdesserts.