Todd is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Todd. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1071 in baby name popularity for boys with 180 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
In the United States, the surname Sweeney can also be an Americanization of the French surname Choiniere. Choinière This french surname is derived from, choin meaning, white and probably originated as an occupational name for a. baker 
View the Todd Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Todd has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Todd to other names. Variants of the name Todd include Tod. The name Tokala is a form of Todd. Todd falls into the animal name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Todd Eldredge, Todd Rundgren. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Mini Bio (1). L.L. Cool J was born James Todd Smith on January 14, 1968, in Bay Shore, Long Island, New York, to Ondrea (Griffith) and James Smith. Todd, as he was called, did not have a very happy childhood. At the age of four, he saw his mother and grandfather shot by his own father
The name is found recorded in America as early as the 17th Century, when one Robert Todd, aged 23 yrs, sailed aboard The Hopewell to Elizabeth Cittie, Hampton River, Virginia in 1622. Among the recordings in Yorkshire are the marriage of Robert Todd and Jane Storrow on January 15th 1616 at Wensley. It is a nickname surname for someone thought to resemble a fox in some real or fancied way, for example, either in being quick or clever, or perhaps more obviously in having red hair. The derivation is from the Northern Middle English tod(de), a fox. The Scottish form of this name usually appears as Tod.
The name Todd is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Todd is: Fox. American Meaning: The name Todd is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Todd is: Fox. English Meaning: The name Todd is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Todd is: Fox. Tod is a Scottish nickname meaning a clever or wily person. SoulUrge Number: 6.
Todd ▼ has 1 variant: Tod ▼ . Todd is a very popular first name for men (#88 out of 1220, Top 7%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#423 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census).
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Hugo Tod, which was dated 1168, at Norfolk, during the reign of King Henry 11, known as The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In England this was known as Poll Tax. It is a nickname surname for someone thought to resemble a fox in some real or fancied way, for example, either in being quick or clever, or perhaps more obviously in having red hair. The derivation is from the Northern Middle English tod(de), a fox. The Scottish form of this name usually appears as Tod.
Mrs. Lovett - Well I can't say the years have been particularly kind to you Mr. Barker, bu.... Sweeney Todd - No, not Barker, that man is dead. It's Todd now, Sweeney Todd, and he will have his revenge.. Benjamin Barker, later known as Sweeney Todd, is the main protagonist and title character of the Broadway musical and its film adaptation. Benjamin Barker is a skilled barber, serving the men of London in his establishment on Fleet Street, He is married to Lucy Barker and together they have a daughter, Johanna
Todd /todd/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced tahd. It is of Middle English origin, and the meaning of Todd is fox. The name possibly refers to a fox hunter. It remains a dialectal word for a fox in some parts of Britain. Tod is a Scottish nickname for a clever or wily person. Todd is a very popular first name for men (#88 out of 1220, Top 7%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#423 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census).