What type of plants are in the Arctic tundra?  Approximately 1,700 species of plants live on the Arctic  tundra, including flowering plants, dwarf shrubs, herbs, grasses,  mosses, and lichens. The tundra is characteri … zed by permafrost, a  layer of soil and partially decomposed organic matter, that is  frozen year-round. 
Tundra Biome Flora. There are also quite a few types of plants found in the tundra biome. They include Arctic Willow, Arctic Moss, Caribou Moss, and Tufted Saxifrage. In this particular biome, the bitter cold makes it hard for most types of plants to survive. Most of them are types of moss. However, you will also find shrubs, grass, and some willow out there as well. Approximately 400 different species of flowers have been identified in the tundra biome. It is believed that there could be more plants and animals that live
Tundra. Plant Life. The Tundra has a lot of plant life within this biome. Some common plants include the bearberry, arctic moss, Caribou moss, Diamond leaf willow, Labrador Tea, Pasque Flower, and the Tufted Saxifrage. The animals in the tundra eat these plants to survive and gain energy to stay warm. Some plants are useful for humans. 
In fact, all of the plants found in the tundra biome grow very slowly due to the cool temperatures. There are more than 2,000 types of plants that can grow there. Most of them are types of moss. However, you will also find shrubs, grass, and some willow out there as well. Approximately 400 different species of flowers have been identified in the tundra biome. It is believed that there could be more plants and animals that live in the tundra biome.
The biodiversity of tundra is low: 1,700 species of vascular plants and only 48 species of land mammals can be found, although millions of birds migrate there each year for the marshes. There are also a few fish species. There are few species with large populations. The term tundra comes through Russian тундра from the Kildin Sami word tūndar tūndâr, uplands treeless mountain. Tract there are three types of: tundra arctic, tundra alpine, tundra And antarctic. tundra
Although there are few trees in the tundra, there is a variety of smaller vegetation that grows in this environment. Plants that are commonly found in the tundra biome include dwarf shrubs, grasses, mosses and lichens. 
There are two types of tundra, the arctic and the alpine tundra. The arctic tundra is the land around the North Pole. The alpine tundra can be found above the tree line of tall, cold mountains. Tundra covers one fifth of the Earth's surface. Some plants that grow in the tundra include lichen, short shrubs, sedges, grasses, flowers, birch trees and willow trees. Cushion plants, which, also grow in the tundra, are types of plants that grow low to the ground in tight places. They are called cushion plants because they are soft and cushiony.
In physical geography, tundra is type of biome where the tree growth is hindered by low temperatures and short growing seasons. The term tundra comes through Russian тундра from the Kildin Sami word tūndar tūndâr, uplands treeless mountain. tract The term tundra comes through Russian тундра from the Kildin Sami word tūndar tūndâr, uplands treeless mountain. Tract there are three types of: tundra arctic, tundra alpine, tundra And antarctic. tundra
Most plants in the Tundra are lichen,mosses,and some other low shrubs or trees like the Dwarf Willow or some other birches that are less then knee-high. From the lack of lots of vegetation, some herbivores in the Tundra have a hard time finding areas with a abundance of plants to eat during the Winter. But some animals like the caribou or musk oxen can eat the lichens and other plants. One of the most common plants in the Tundra are lichen. Lichen is a decomposer made of plants and fungus working together. Lichen can live in the Tundra because they can be close to the ground and can have short roots.
There are three types of tundra: arctic tundra, alpine tundra, and Antarctic tundra. In tundra, the vegetation is composed of dwarf shrubs, sedges and grasses, mosses, and lichens. Scattered trees grow in some tundra regions. The term tundra comes through Russian тундра from the Kildin Sami word tūndar tūndâr, uplands treeless mountain. Tract there are three types of: tundra arctic, tundra alpine, tundra And antarctic. tundra