An implementation manager is an IT project manager who focuses on implementing information systems into a business environment. The implementation manager oversees the task, ensuring the project adheres to budget and time frame guidelines. Recruit, Manage and Plan. Along the way, implementation managers may recruit and manage a team of IT workers, create a network planning diagram and timeline, develop and monitor a budget, and serve as a liaison between team members and external stakeholders such as senior management.
Implementation managers draw on a combination of business and information technology expertise. In addition to the required bachelor's degree, implementation managers can hone their skills in a formal project management training course or MBA program. Recruit, Manage and Plan. Along the way, implementation managers may recruit and manage a team of IT workers, create a network planning diagram and timeline, develop and monitor a budget, and serve as a liaison between team members and external stakeholders such as senior management.
Implementing projects -- putting planned projects into action -- is important to both strategic planning efforts and project managers in a number of ways. All managers can benefit from understanding the importance of project implementation to strategic planning and the project manager. Strategic planning is the act of creating short-and long-term plans to guide an organization to continued and increasing success in the marketplace. Project managers oversee specific projects ultimately designed to make progress toward strategic planning objectives.
BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. Implementation managers work with project managers to implement an information system or new process in an organization.They perform the duties that usually fall under the job description of a project manager. Experience. The implementation manager should have experience working with the technology or software that the organization is implementing. Management experience prepares the implementation manager to direct the activities of others and lead the implementation team.
Implementing projects is important for project managers and the strategic planning process because it can reveal new issues and challenges that planners may not have anticipated, ultimately resulting in more refined strategies, products and processes. Strategic planning is the act of creating short-and long-term plans to guide an organization to continued and increasing success in the marketplace. Project managers oversee specific projects ultimately designed to make progress toward strategic planning objectives.
As project managers and sub-project managers we have to make sure that we, together with all our team members, 1  take action, in-line with the plan and / or contract. 2  record and document all the work, work results, special events, decisions about changes, implementation of changes, etc. 1 The project management team calls for a review meeting in order to have somebody from outside the team carry out a health check of project implementation (non-regular). 2  The control board calls for a review meeting in order to obtain an overview of the project status (regular).
Job Description. The implementation manager ensures each member of a project team completes the steps to implement a new process or information system on schedule. The coordinator informs the project manager of technological and communication difficulties in the implementation of the system. Experience. The implementation manager should have experience working with the technology or software that the organization is implementing. Management experience prepares the implementation manager to direct the activities of others and lead the implementation team.
In project implementation or project execution, we put it all together. Project planning is complete, as detailed as possible, yet providing enough flexibility for necessary changes. 1 The project management team calls for a review meeting in order to have somebody from outside the team carry out a health check of project implementation (non-regular). 2  The control board calls for a review meeting in order to obtain an overview of the project status (regular).
In project implementation, we need to monitor everything that could jeopardize our project or parts of it. As emphasized in the section about Contract Management, it is essential to take records of anything that is not in-line with the contract. 1 The project management team calls for a review meeting in order to have somebody from outside the team carry out a health check of project implementation (non-regular). 2  The control board calls for a review meeting in order to obtain an overview of the project status (regular).