I was thinking of taking a back pack with a few drinks etc in so that we only buy a burger or something and save on the cost a little especially as we will be getting in as early as poss to get seats. Does anyone know if i can take a back pack with bottles of water in. I have been to concerts before whereby they do allow water in, however security remove and keep the caps, this is done to stop them being used as a weighty missile, however this is very inconvenient also at day long festivals if you have a few bottles of water you want to lug around with you.
Thinking Out Loud singer Ed Sheeran is preparing to perform at Wembley Stadium for three nights to approximately 90,000 people each night. Singer-songwriter Sheeran will also be filming a concert movie of his time in Wembley, which will be similar to that of Katy Perry and One Direction's. 
In short-NO. You are not permitted to take any bottle (plastic or glass), can, or drinking glass into the stadium. If you wish to take your own drinks in, then they need to be cartons (juice etc) or those squeezy packs that some sports drinks come in. (Lucozade Sport etc) - but this is at the total discretion of the stadium. Food-nothing at all is allowed in. You might get away with a pack of chewing gum. Inside you can buy many types of hot food and drinks, but at quite high prices. 
Image caption Filled bottles of water will be a no-no on entry to venues, as will juice cartons and any liquids in more than 100ml quantities. Spectators at the Olympic Games will not be allowed to take drinks or liquids in more than 100ml containers, like sunscreen, into 2012 venues. Games organisers Locog have set out forbidden items in their ticket terms.
You are not permitted to take any bottle (plastic or glass), can, or drinking glass into the stadium. If you wish to take your own drinks in, then they … need to be cartons (juice etc) or those squeezy packs that some sports drinks come in. (Lucozade Sport etc) - but this is at the total discretion of the stadium. Food-nothing at all is allowed in. You might get away with a pack of chewing gum. Inside you can buy many types of hot food and drinks, but at quite high prices. The Wembley website states that you cannot take any professional cameras or recording devices into the stadium. I have been to plenty of games and concerts there and seen many compact cameras and camera phones being used. So any standard camera below an SLR seems to be fine.
Post by mandyandnick on. It's all set up so you buy food and drink inside i'm afraid. (It does say below that backapcks are not allowed in and on the tickets it says all bags will be searched so you'll probably be ok with a couple of rounds of butties in a plastic bag!). Taken from the wembley website. 
Our main aim is for you and your guests to have an enjoyable experience at Wembley Stadium and we therefore request all members and their guests and anyone else sitting in Club Wembley or Bobby Moore areas to behave in an appropriate manner and treat other members, their guests and our staff with respect. You and your guests are required at all times to comply with the terms of your Seat or Box Licence Agreement, the Ground Regulations (which can be found on wembleystadium.com and at all entrance points to the Stadium), and any terms and conditions of attendance of the relevant event holder.
The offers range from a hot dog for £4 to fish and chips for £8. Drinks prices range from soft drinks at £2.50 to a pint of Carlsberg at £4. Crisp and confectionary products are also available with prices starting from £1. There are 688 food and drink service points located around Wembley Stadium on the public concourses, as well as facilities available outside the Stadium on the outer public concourse, which encircles the Stadium. Options available include; hot and cold food and beverages, and confectionary.
Answers. Best Answer: Well when I went to see Muse in Wembley Stadium, we were allowed to bring any food. Drinks in bottles had to be poured in a paper cup from what i recall... that or you have to take the cap off the bottle. 
Bookings can also be made via the national customer contact centre on 08705 80 80 80, at any National Express coach station or through one of a thousand travel shops around the country. For more information on how to get to Wembley Stadium from all over the country please visit our travel page. Wembley Stadium is Public Transport Destination and we recommend that anyone coming to an event uses public transport. The stadium is served by three stations and five lines-the Jubilee, Metropolitan and Bakerloo underground lines plus Chiltern and London Overground rail lines.