H. Pylori is a bacteria that actively suppresses the production of stomach acid. It has two cell walls, which makes it twice as difficult for the body to fight off. It’s also a parasite, and is easily passed from person to person via saliva. The Dangers of H. Pylori. H Pylori infections lead to many larger health problems. It’s tied to serious health hazards such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), chronic heartburn, gastritus, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
Since then, it has been increasingly accepted that colonization of the stomach with H. pylori is an important cause of gastric cancer and of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. Infection with H. pylori is also associated with a reduced risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Helicobacter pylori, or H. pylori, is a spiral-shaped bacterium that grows in the mucus layer that coats the inside of the human stomach.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria. These germs can enter your body and live in your digestive tract. After many years, they can cause sores, called ulcers, in the lining of your stomach or the upper part of your small intestine. For some people, an infection can lead to stomach cancer. Infection with H. pylori is common. About two-thirds of the world’s population has it in their bodies. For most people, it doesn’t cause ulcers or any other symptoms
H. pylori infection is also associated with a 1–2% lifetime risk of stomach cancer and a less than 1% risk of gastric MALT lymphoma. In the absence of treatment, H. pylori infection—once established in its gastric niche—is widely believed to persist for life. 
H. pylori infections are usually harmless, but they’re responsible for the majority of ulcers in the stomach and small intestine. H. pylori is a common type of bacteria that usually infects the stomach. They may be present in more than half of all people in the world, according to the Mayo Clinic. The “H” in the name is short for Helicobacter. “Helico” means spiral.
H. pylori infection occurs when a type of bacteria called Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infects your stomach. This usually happens during childhood. A common cause of peptic ulcers, H. pylori infection may be present in more than half the people in the world. Most people don't realize they have H. pylori infection, because they never get sick from it.
Key Points. 1  Stomach cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide and the second most common cause of cancer death. 2  In the 1980s a new bacteria Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori), was discovered in patients with gastritis, a precursor to stomach cancer. Stomach cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide and the second most common cause of cancer death globally. The connection between H. pylori infection and stomach cancer fueled a need for noninvasive screening methods for the bacteria.
The bacterium Helicobacter pylori is linked to the appearance of several gastric diseases and in particular is associated with a progression to gastric cancer. Thistrun -1 bacterium colonizes the gastric mucosa directly interacting with epithelial cells. 
However, particularly intense H. pylori infections (those with a high density of bacteria) can lead to chronic gastritis, an inflammation of the stomach lining that may be marked by nausea, vomiting, bloating, and acute pain. Such infections are most associated with the development of diffuse-type gastric cancer. 4. Such infections are most associated with the development of diffuse-type gastric cancer.4H. PYLORI INFECTION CAN LEAD TO A HOST OF ILLSThe abdominal pain and discomfort caused by H. pylori are not the end of this story, however, but just the beginning.
1 In the 1980s a new bacteria Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori), was discovered in patients with gastritis, a precursor to stomach cancer. 2  NCI has supported basic research to solidify the link between H. pylori infections and stomach cancer and to help develop prevention strategies. Stomach cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide and the second most common cause of cancer death globally. The connection between H. pylori infection and stomach cancer fueled a need for noninvasive screening methods for the bacteria.