Talk to a Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. The National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) -- also known as the Wagner Act, after its sponsor, Senator Robert F. Wagner -- was signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on July 5, 1935. 
In terms of section 193(4) of the Labour Relations Act 1995, an arbitrator has the power to determine any unfair labour practice dispute on reasonable terms, which may include ordering reinstatement, re-employment or compensation (of up to twelve months' pay). The Labour Relations Act 1995 also regulated the issue of fairness, not only in termination but during employment, too. In 1998, however, most of the law on unfair labour practices was removed from the Labour Relations Act 1995 and put into the Employment Equity Act (EEA).
No. 16 Labour Relations Act 1996 (2) In the absence of the Chairperson, one of the members appointed pursuant to section 55 (1) (a) shall at as Chairperson. (3) An officer of the Ministry of Labour shall be appointed as Secretary of the Council. 57. 
(10) The term National Labor Relations Board means the National Labor Relations Board provided for in section 3 of this Act [section 153 of this title]. 2. [§152.] When used in this Act [subchapter]--. (1) The term person includes one or more individuals, labor organizations, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in cases under title 11 of the United States Code [under title 11], or receivers.
Congress enacted the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) in 1935 to protect the rights of employees and employers, to encourage collective bargaining, and to curtail certain private sector labor and management practices, which can harm the general welfare of workers, businesses and the U.S. economy. 2. [§152.] When used in this Act [subchapter]--. (1) The term person includes one or more individuals, labor organizations, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in cases under title 11 of the United States Code [under title 11], or receivers.
Primary tabs. National Labor Relations Act: an overview. The focus of the traditional law of unions, which makes up the major part of the area of law known as labor law, is on workers collectively and their rights as a group. 
The Act does not apply to workers who are covered by the Railway Labor Act, agricultural employees, domestic employees, supervisors, federal, state or local government workers, independent contractors and some close relatives of individual employers. The National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), which is established in NLRA 1935 sections 3 to 6 (29 U.S.C. § 153–156), is the primary enforcer of the Act.
Summary. This Act regulates the organisational rights of trade unions and promotes and facilitates collective bargaining at the workplace and at sectoral level. It also deals with strikes and lockouts, workplace forums and alternative dispute resolution
The Labour Relations Act (LRA), Act 66 of 1995 aims to promote economic development, social justice, labour peace and democracy in the workplace. Amended Labour Relations Act. Online version of the Labour Relations Act as amended by the. 1  Amendment-Afrikaans Labour Relations Act 1998, 2  Amendment-Labour Relations Act 1996, 3  Amendment-Labour Relations Act 1998, 4  Amendment-Labour Relations Act 2000, and.