Excess caffeine can cause weight gain or prevent weight loss. Photo Credit TongRo Images/TongRo Images/Getty Images. The major source of caffeine in the American diet is coffee, but soft drinks, tea and chocolate can also contribute to your excess caffeine intake. Caffeine is a stimulant and may give you a quick boost of energy, according to the National Institutes of Health. If you consume calories in excess of what your body burns because of your excessive caffeine intake, you will gain approximately 1 pound of body weight for every 3,500 additional calories. If you consume a lot of caffeinated beverages and chocolate most days of the week and struggle with your weight, try cutting down.
Tip. If you're someone who drinks a lot of caffeine and thus you have a high tolerance for it, you may want to consider first breaking your addiction and letting your body get used to no caffeine for a while. That way, when you eventually do ingest a small amount of caffeine you'll actually benefit from the effects. This means a little shot of caffeine can give you the energy you need to give 100% during your workout. And giving 100% in the gym means you'll get the results you want more quickly. So now that we've established that caffeine can indeed help you with your weight loss efforts, that brings us to the next question.
A study to determine the hormonal effects of caffeine on resistance training has not conclusively proven that caffeine can help you build muscle, but it has proven that caffeine does effect both testosterone and cortisol levels. Response: As you can see from the image to the right, coffee does have its ways of increasing testosterone levels, but I’m pretty sure that’s not what you are talking about. Instead, lets look at the effects of caffeine in general, on the hormones that affect muscle growth.
Not surprising, the effects may lead to overeating and weight gain. Conclusion. If you’re getting the idea that caffeine can have lots of different effects on your weight, you’re on the right track. And this is why people have been unable to prove that caffeine causes weight-loss. While the chemistry of caffeine is clearly not simple, the evidence for caffeine in weight-loss is pretty weak when the potential for weight gain is considered. Caffeine, however, does increase heart rate and insomnia and can have significant negative health effects, including death, if taken in too high of a dose. Also, because it is habit-forming, caffeine leads to unpleasant withdrawal symptoms such as headache, grogginess and irritability. Caffeine and Weight-loss
The bottom line: Be cautious about using caffeine products to help with weight loss. When used in moderation (400 milligrams or less) by healthy adults, caffeine is generally safe. But too much caffeine might cause nervousness, insomnia, nausea, increased blood pressure and other problems. Also keep in mind that some caffeinated beverages, such as specialty coffees, are high in calories and fat. So instead of losing weight, you might actually gain weight if you drink too many of these. With. Katherine Zeratsky, R.D., L.D. 1  Bitter orange supplements. 2  Coconut oil for weight loss.