Ethene, C2H4, is an example of an unsaturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of unsaturated compounds are benzene, C6H6, and acetic acid, C2H4O2. All bond angles about the carbon-carbon double bond are 120o. All atoms bonded to the double bonded carbon atoms lie in the same plane. An alkene is a hydrocarbon containing double bonds. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2.
1. Alkanes-Are saturated hydrocarbons that therefore contain only hydrogen and carbon atoms bonded to each other, and typically follow the chemical formula C n H 2n+2. A common example is paraffin. 2. Alkenes-These unsaturated hydrocarbons are molecules that contain at least one carbon-to-carbon double bond. With the chemical formula consisting of molecules of C n H 2n, alkenes are very common in the petrochemical industry; the simplest alkene is ethylene, or ethane. 3
Alkanes are an example of saturated compounds. An unsaturated compound is a chemical compound that contains carbon-carbon double bonds or triple bonds, such as those found in alkenes or alkynes, respectively. Saturated and unsaturated compounds need not consist only of a carbon atom chain.
Unsaturated hydrocarbons are compounds composed of carbon and hydrogen atoms, with one or more carbon-carbon double or triple bond in their chemical structure. Unsaturated hydrocarbons are commonly used in many industrial processes for the production of pesticides, fuel, paints, lacquers and more. Hydrocarbons are compounds that only consist of the elements hydrogen and carbon. In this lesson, we will focus on one type of hydrocarbon: unsaturated hydrocarbons, and its three types-alkenes, alkynes and aromatic hydrocarbons.
Unsaturated hydrocarbons are compounds that consist only of the elements carbon (C) and hydrogen (H) and contain at least one carbon-carbon double or triple bond. Below are examples of the unsaturated hydrocarbons. Hydrocarbons are compounds that only consist of the elements hydrogen and carbon. In this lesson, we will focus on one type of hydrocarbon: unsaturated hydrocarbons, and its three types-alkenes, alkynes and aromatic hydrocarbons.
Alkenes. Alkenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons that have one or more carbon-carbon double bond, with a general structure of (R-C=C-R'), where R and R' are hydrocarbon groups attached to either side of the carbon atoms. Hydrocarbons are compounds that only consist of the elements hydrogen and carbon. In this lesson, we will focus on one type of hydrocarbon: unsaturated hydrocarbons, and its three types-alkenes, alkynes and aromatic hydrocarbons.
There are three types of unsaturated hydrocarbons: alkenes, alkynes and aromatic hydrocarbons. Alkenes have one or more carbon-carbon double bond. Alkynes have one or more carbon-carbon triple bond, and aromatic hydrocarbons have a benzene or aromatic ring in their structure. Hydrocarbons are compounds that only consist of the elements hydrogen and carbon. In this lesson, we will focus on one type of hydrocarbon: unsaturated hydrocarbons, and its three types-alkenes, alkynes and aromatic hydrocarbons.
An alkene is a hydrocarbon containing double bonds. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. Ethene, C 2 H 4, is an example of an unsaturated hydrocarbon with a double bond. ethyne (acetylene), C 2 H 2 is an example of an unsaturated hydrocarbon with a triple bond.
Ethane, C2H6, is an example of a saturated hydrocarbon. Other examples of saturated compounds are octane, C8H18, and diethyl ether, C4H10O. The term unsaturated is used to designate a compound which contains double or triple bonds and therefore not every carbon is bonded to a different atom. An alkene is a hydrocarbon containing double bonds. The general formula of an alkene is CnH2n. An alkyne is a hydrocarbon containing triple bonds. The general formula of an alkyne is CnH2n-2.