Gone but not forgotten! The Good Wife said goodbye to beloved character Kalinda (Archie Panjabi) on May 10's emotional season 6 finale, and as series costar Matt Czuchry explained to HuffPost Live Monday, Kalinda ' s exit will continue to cause waves throughout season 7. PHOTOS: Beloved TV characters.
She may have taken her time to kiss Carey good-bye, call Diane, break into the cash stash that was teased in Season 3, and leave a note for Alicia, but make no mistake about it, Kalinda was already gone.
Archie Panjabi knows viewers want more Kalinda on The Good Wife, but she's enjoying the amount of screentime her co-stars have been getting with the big Lockhart/Gardner exit storyline.
The Good Wife said goodbye to beloved character Kalinda (Archie Panjabi) on May 10's emotional season 6 finale, and as series costar Matt Czuchry explained to HuffPost Live Monday, Kalinda ' s exit will continue to cause waves throughout season 7.
That is certainly how things looked on Sunday night’s episode, and fans have known for some time now that Archie Panjabi was leaving the role by the end of Season 6. However, Good Wife spoilers tease there may be a little more regarding Kalinda yet to come. On the one hand, Kalinda seemingly made her exit during Sunday’s show, as Sharma set up Lemond Bishop to be arrested, cleared out her apartment, and left a note for Alicia Florrick.
Based on the episode descriptions, it’s not clear where and how Kalinda fits in before the season wraps. However, and to the relief of fans, it does seem that the door is being left open. Though Panjabi is leaving the show to pursue new projects, further involvement with The Good Wife does seem to be a possibility.
Archie Panjabi's Kalinda left The Good Wife on April 26 in an arguably unsatisfying way -- but don't worry, she'll be back for closure in season 6 finale. Credit: Jeff Neira/CBS.
If you thought the final scene between Alicia and Kalinda on The Good Wife was too good to be true, you were right. EW has learned that Julianna Margulies (Alicia Florrick) and Archie Panjabi (Kalinda Sharma) did not shoot the bar scene together for last Sunday’s season finale.
Archie Panjabi ’s Emmy-winning turn as Kalinda Sharma has been one of the highlights of CBS’ stellar legal drama, The Good Wife. But something happened on the way to fleshing out the fiercely independent investigator’s storyline—and not everyone is thrilled about it.