The 2016 United States elections will be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2016. During this presidential election year, the President of the United States and Vice President will be elected. All 435 voting seats in the United States House of Representatives will be up for election. Additionally, elections will be held to select the Delegate for the District of Columbia as well as the delegates from U.S. territories. This includes the Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico, who serves a four-year term.
On Election Day, citizens of the United States of America can vote by popular ballot for candidates for public offices at local, state and national levels. In even numbered years, federal elections are always held. In years divisible by four, presidential elections are always held. It can fall on or between November 2 and November 8. It is the day when popular ballots are held to select public officials. These include national, state and local government representatives at all levels up to the president. Many people in the United States vote on Election Day.
House of Representatives elections are held every two years on the first Tuesday after November 1 in even years. House elections are first-past-the-post elections that elect a Representative from each of 435 House districts which cover the United States. The United States is a federation, with elected officials at the federal (national), state and local levels. On a national level, the head of state, the President, is elected indirectly by the people, through an Electoral College. Today, the electors virtually always vote with the popular vote of their state.
Federal law in the United States requires that the presidential election be held every four years on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November. In 1845 Congress passed a law establishing that the day for choosing presidential electors (in other words, the day for the popular vote that would determine the electors of the electoral congress) would be
Answer: Federal law in the United States requires that the presidential election be held every four years on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November. In modern society that seems like an arbitrary time to hold an election, but it made a lot of sense in the 1800s. In 1845 Congress passed a law establishing that the day for choosing presidential electors (in other words, the day for the popular vote that would determine the electors of the electoral congress) would be
Select another year-range: Election Day in the United States of America is the Tuesday following the first Monday in November. It can fall on or between November 2 and November 8. It is the day when popular ballots are held to select public officials. These include national, state and local government representatives at all levels up to the president. Many people in the United States vote on Election Day.
Federal and state general elections are held on the same day, at the same location. Illinois (and US) general elections are held on Tuesday following the first Monday in Novem … ber. The actual date may be as early as November 2 or as late as November 8. Illinois Gubernatorial elections are held every four years. The most recent Gubernatorial election was in 2010; the next will be in 2014. The term general election distinguishes the event from primary elections, which are held in late winter or spring to select which party candidates will advance to the general election; or a special election, which is held when an unexpected vacancy opens for an elected public office.
The United States Constitution defines (to a basic extent) how federal elections are held, in Article One and Article Two and various amendments. The federal government has also been involved in attempts to increase voter turnout, by measures such as the National Voter Registration Act of 1993. The United States is a federation, with elected officials at the federal (national), state and local levels. On a national level, the head of state, the President, is elected indirectly by the people, through an Electoral College. Today, the electors virtually always vote with the popular vote of their state.
Answer by Katemccloud. Confidence votes 6. Election Day is the Tuesday following the first Monday in November, so that date will be between November 2nd and November 8th. Congressional elections are held every two years (the term of election for the House) and Presidential elections every four years. Presidential elections in the US are held every four years. They  are held in the first Tuesday of November in years divisible by  four.
Federal and state general elections are held on the same day, at the same location. Illinois (and US) general elections are held on Tuesday following the first Monday in Novem … ber. The actual date may be as early as November 2 or as late as November 8. Illinois Gubernatorial elections are held every four years. The most recent Gubernatorial election was in 2010; the next will be in 2014. Presidential elections in the US are held every four years. They  are held in the first Tuesday of November in years divisible by  four.