Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A generator is used to convert mechanical energy to electrical energy. A motor converts electrical energy to mechanical energy. An electric generator is a device used to convert mechanical energy into electrical energy. So the mechanical energy of the moving wire is converted into the electric energy of the current that flows in the wire. The animation below shows a simple electric generator. In the animation, the mechanical energy needed to turn the generator comes from the brown hand crank at the front of the generator
A generator is used to convert mechanical energy to electrical  energy. A motor converts electrical energy to mechanical energy.    Rather than try to explain the theo … ry of how a generator can  convert mechanical energy to electrical energy, click on the link  below. The flow of current through a coil of wire can either directly perform work (an electromagnet) or be converted to rotational energy (an electric motor). On a smaller scale, the piezoelectric effect (physical deformation of crystal solids) can transform electrical energy into a motive force or vice versa.
A generator converts mechanical energy into electrical energy, while a motor does the opposite-it converts electrical energy into mechanical energy. Both devices work because of electromagnetic induction, which is when a voltage is induced by a changing magnetic field. Inside the vacuum is an electrical motor, which converts electrical energy into mechanical energy. While the generator and the vacuum (or any other device powered by a motor) may serve different functions, they are actually two sides of the same coin. In fact, they are the same device!
Electrical energy is usually converted into mechanical energy through electromagnetism. The flow of current through a coil of wire can either directly perform work (an electromagnet) or be converted to rotational energy (an electric motor). On a smaller scale, the piezoelectric effect (physical deformation of crystal solids) can transform electrical energy into a motive force or vice versa.
1 A generator converts mechanical energy into electrical energy. 2  A hydroelectric powerplant converts the mechanical energy of water in a storage dam into electrical energy. 3  An internal combustion engine is a heat engine that obtains mechanical energy from chemical energy by burning fuel. 1 A hydroelectric powerplant converts the mechanical energy of water in a storage dam into electrical energy. 2  An internal combustion engine is a heat engine that obtains mechanical energy from chemical energy by burning fuel. 3  From this mechanical energy, the internal combustion engine often generates electricity.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A generator is used to convert mechanical energy to electrical energy. A motor converts electrical energy to mechanical energy. Rather than try to explain the theory of how a generator can convert mechanical energy to electrical energy, click on the source link I posted below. It is the main idea of the generator it converts the mechanical energy from steam turbines or wind turbine or hydraulic turbine (from dams) to electrical energy used all over the country. Nelson · 3 months ago. Thumbs up.
The term wind power describes the process by which wind is used to make the mechanical energy or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy of wind energy into mechanical power. This mechanical power may be used for certain activities (such as milling of rice or pumping water) or a generator can convert mechanical energy to electrical energy at home, business, schools and other facilities. 
The terms  wind energy  or  wind power  describe the process by which the wind is used to generate mechanical power or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical power. This mechanical power can be used for specific tasks (such as grinding grain or pumping water) or a generator can convert this mechanical power into electricity to power homes, businesses, schools, and the like. 