Pyramids. The ancient Egyptians built pyramids as tombs for the pharaohs and their queens. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdom to the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdomto the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The three largest and best-preserved of these were built at Gizaat the beginning of the Old Kingdom.
The pyramid shape of later tombs could have come from these mounds. More likely, Egyptian pyramids were modeled on a sacred, pointed stone called the benben. The benben symbolized the rays of the sun; ancient texts claimed that pharaohs reached the heavens via sunbeams. The shape of the pyramid is called the angle of repose which means it is resting, there is no tension, there is no tendency to fall. The tombs of Kings started as mastabs, buildings with a flat roof and inclined sides. Then came Imhotep who built the step pyramid for King Zoser.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Egyptians wanted their kings to have splendid tombs because they wanted the king's body to be well protected, and because they expected the spirits of their dead kings to use the tomb as a house until the end of all time. 
After some trial and error, the ancient Egyptians settled on a pyramid for their pharaohs' tombs, because it's one of the most stable shapes. Source(s): http://www.xtremefit.org/articles/articl... ♥skiperdee1979♥ · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. The ancient Egyptian form of the pyramid probably developed out of a number of different traditions. One is the practice, long attested from the Predynastic period onward, of covering tombs with a mound of sand, often with a retaining wall of some kind.
Why did the ancient Egyptians use the pyramid shape? Egyptologists have developed many theories about why the tombs of the early pharaohs were built in the pyramid shape. Here are three different ideas: The pyramid represented the first land to appear at the beginning of time-a hill called 'Ben-Ben'. 
The pyramid shape may also have been viewed as a sort of schematized way of representing the rays of the sun, again, sun worship was an important part of royal theology during the Old Kingdom, when pyramids first were built in Egypt. Source(s): I'm an Egyptian archaeologist. Report Abuse. The ancient Egyptian form of the pyramid probably developed out of a number of different traditions. One is the practice, long attested from the Predynastic period onward, of covering tombs with a mound of sand, often with a retaining wall of some kind.
31). Another reason why Egyptologists believe that pyramids were tombs is because the ancient Egyptian record explicitly states as much. For example, the Papyrus Abbott describes the inspection of sepulchers of former kings under Ramesses IX. The pyramid of 17th Dynasty Sobekemsaf II was inspected: Though pyramids would again be built in the 5th Dynasty, they would be of inferior quality and materials. Pyramid tombs remained popular through the 13th Dynasty, though none would rival those of the Pyramid Age in size or endurance.
The pyramids are the stone tombs of Egypt's kings-the Pharaohs and one of the world's greatest historical mysteries. They have stood for thousands of years, filled with many hidden secrets: clues about what life (and death) was like in Ancient Egypt. Back to the top. Pyramids. One of the greatest pyramids was made by King Khufu.... The Giza Pyramids Wander through the chambers and passageways of the Great Pyramid, and learn about the pharaohs for whom these monumental tombs were built.
The ancient Egyptians built pyramids as tombs for the pharaohsand their queens. The pharaohs were buried in pyramids of many different shapes and sizes from before the beginning of the Old Kingdomto the end of the Middle Kingdom. There are about eighty pyramids known today from ancient Egypt. The three largest and best-preserved of these were built at Gizaat the beginning of the Old Kingdom.