65 months ago. You dont get a degree, you got through an apprenticeship program that consists of on the job training and supplementary course work. Usually takes 3 1/2 to 4 years to become a journeyman lineman. You can apply at a utility if they are hiring, but usually they hire from within. union hands make the top wages. typically, a JOURNEYMAN lineman makes between $30 to $50+ depending on your local. i think long island, NY makes the highest in the country at 50 some dollars an hour.
The BLS reports the average annual salary for electrical linemen was $68,270 in 2013, although that salary includes apprentice, journeyman and master linemen. The overall salary range was $48,090 to $89,910. You must complete specific educational and experience requirements to become a journeyman lineman. Once you achieve journeyman status, you can work independently and also have the opportunity to work for companies other than the one that trained you.
What is the pay scale? There are 7 step levels in the program and apprentice’s pay rate is based on their step level. Each step level is a percentage of the journeyman lineman’s wage rate for that local. A first step, entry level apprentice makes 60% of the journeyman lineman’s wage. How much does it cost? How much does the training cost? The workbooks are text references cost a total of a little more than $464.00 for the first year. The second and third years texts are less expensive, respectively $264.00 for 2nd year and $286.00 for 3rd year. This is subject to changes in manufacturer costs and/or change in text book offering
Line installers and repairers, usually called linemen regardless of gender, need both technical instruction and long-term training on the job. Most linemen begin with vocational training, complete an apprenticeship and then go on to become journeymen before becoming independent workers. This occupation requires a broad knowledge of telecommunications technology and electrical utilities. You must complete specific educational and experience requirements to become a journeyman lineman. Once you achieve journeyman status, you can work independently and also have the opportunity to work for companies other than the one that trained you.
How can i start the ball in motion to become a power lineman; the quickest route. Is there some type of 4 month training program that could help me get a job as a power lineman? I can't afford to go to school for years just months as i get liad off in the winter time and could do a course then. 
The Outside Lineman program is set up as a 3 ½ year apprenticeship. However, each individual completes at a different time. There is a minimum of 7,000 total hours of required on-the-job training. Of these 7,000 hours, there are specific amounts of required types of training. An apprentice may be in the program beyond the 7,000 hours while working on the specific type of training. 
Some states require certification for journeymen linemen. Step 1. Enter an apprenticeship program to get experience and advance to become a journeyman. Journeymen linemen advance to journey-level after approximately three to five years of classroom and on-the-job training. Employer requirements vary to become a journeyman, but typically require an extensive apprenticeship. Linemen are professionals who install, repair and maintain electrical power and telecommunications systems. Generally, linemen maintain electrical and telecommunications equipment in power stations and on telephone poles on the street.
Apprentices in the Tennessee Valley Authority's Lineman Apprentice Program are paid a fixed salary based on their level of training. 2012 TVA apprentice wages ranged from $36,450 to $54,360 per year. Hourly wages for a journeyman outside lineman with the Northwest Line were $44.73 as of February 2012, resulting in an annual wage of $93,038 for full-time workers.
However, each individual completes at a different time. There is a minimum of 7,000 total hours of required on-the-job training. Of these 7,000 hours, there are specific amounts of required types of training. An apprentice may be in the program beyond the 7,000 hours while working on the specific type of training. How much does it cost? How much does the training cost? The workbooks are text references cost a total of a little more than $464.00 for the first year. The second and third years texts are less expensive, respectively $264.00 for 2nd year and $286.00 for 3rd year. This is subject to changes in manufacturer costs and/or change in text book offer