To do so, put your ear to the case of the CPU. If you hear a humming noise, it almost certainly indicates that the fan is running. If, for some reason, the fan is not running, your CPU will overheat and the computer will refuse to turn on until the CPU cools down. If you smell acrid smoke, some component of your computer (mostly your motherboard) might have burnt out. It will need to be replaced.
My computer doesn't start-it is stuck in a turn-on, turn-off loop. up vote 5 down vote favorite. 2. When pressing the power button, my computer starts making start-up noises, but after a few seconds it shuts down. Then, after 2-3 seconds, it automatically starts turning on again and a few seconds later it shuts down again. What you need to do first of all is boot up your computer with: 1  CPU installed. 2  NO sticks of memory (RAM). 3  NO hard disks / storage devices. 4  NO peripheral cards on (PCI-E/PCI/AGP/etc), that means no video card too if you're not using an on-board one. 5  Literally just CPU and motherboard connected to the PSU.
Look at the processor to determine if it has a fan or not. If the computer does not have a CPU fan, skip to step 6. Check the following: Make sure the fan power cable is connected firmly to the motherboard. Check for any objects that might stop the fan. With the power off and the power cable disconnected, gently spin the fan with your fingers to make sure the fan is not stuck. If the fan blades do not move or resist movement, replace the fan. Leave the side panel open, connect the power cable, and turn on the computer. HP and Compaq Desktop PCs-Error: CPU Fan Failed. This document pertains to HP and Compaq desktop computers. One of the following errors, or similar errors, appear when the computer is turned on: CPU Fan Failed. Press F2 to continue to boot. Otherwise, the system will power down in five seconds.
Specs: Vista Home, Dual Core P4/3gigs. Ok the subject just gives a little bit of info ill give you the rest. Basicly turn computer on, let it sit for a few and then it boots up. During pre and post fan revs up and down and blue power light flashes as the proc fan revs up and down. Heres what I did so far. I cleaned out case. Cleaned out heat sink, fan and reapplied thermal paste.
I bet it is your cpu fan speeding up due to a increase in heat. I am not sure if this is likely but I think the new video card might have stressed your power supply and your power supply is now causing your computer to over heat. Just a guess. The cpu fan will normally rev up when your cpu is getting hot. The problem would be identifying which fan causes the noise. Either CPU fan, chassis fan or even the power supply fan. If I were you I would open my case side door and see what's inside, maybe snap a picture. and then first try to disconnect the chassis fan, since it's the easiest and cheapest to replace.
Now when I try to boot it up, everything sounds like its working, but the monitor doesn't turn on and the fan starts spinning for 5 seconds, then stops. In bullet form: -Put computer in sleep. -Tried to wake up, screen did not turn on-Hard reset. -Try to boot up, screen does not turn on at all, HDD and fans spin up. -CPU fan then stops spinning after 5 seconds, screen still does not turn on. I've tried taking it apart and tried booting with the minimal parts (1 stick of RAM and the HDD) and that didn't work. 
Note: Sometimes the cooling fan will spin even though the power supply is broken. If the computer lights up and beeps, but the monitor remains dark, make sure the monitor is turned on and getting power, and that the monitor, keyboard, and other peripherals are firmly attached to the CPU. Electrical problems. First, make sure the computer is getting power. If you don't see lights and hear sound when you try to turn on your computer, first check the power cables. If your system has a 110V/220V switch on the back, make sure it's set firmly in the 110V position.
1 PC boots but CPU fan not spinning-Tech Support. 2  CPU heatsink fan doesn't start spinning at power-on-Forum. 3  Case fans spinning, Heatsink fan not, fail to boot at all-Tech Support. [ 4 building rig problem] PC Not booting cpu fan and case fans won't spin, but gpu will. 1 Cpu fan and gpu fan not spinning at boot. 2  PC will not Boot, CPU fan spins and i hear a click, then it all stops then repea. 3  PC will not Boot, CPU fan spins and i hear a click, then it all stops then repea. 4  PC booting, fans spinning, but no video.