1 Palm trees that are 30 feet tall or shorter will cost between $75 and $400. 2  The ones that are 60 feet or taller typically cost between $200 and $1,200. 3  Condition of Palm Tree – If the tree is trimmed regularly, it will be cheaper. Palm tree removal costs depend on several different factors, but the most important indicator of price is typically the height. As with trimming a palm tree, the height of the tree has a huge impact on how much you will pay: 1  Up to 30 Feet Tall – $150 to $450.
Palm trees are a botanical family of perennial lianas, shrubs, and trees. They are the only members of the family Arecaceae, which is the only family in the order Arecales. They grow in hot climates. Well known palm trees are: 1  Date palm. 2  Coconut palm. There are about 2600 species of palm trees, most of them living in tropical, subtropical, and warm temperate climates. Palms are one of the best known and most widely planted tree families.
The most likely palm you are referring to is Butia capitata, or the pindo palm, also known as the jelly palm. It is usually short and stocky with yellow roundish fruit. Do not … confuse it with the Queen Palm which is far taller and skinnier and has oval-shaped orangish fruit when ripe. The fruit of the Butia is edible, the fruit of the Queen palm is not. There is a video on the internet about this palm, type in eattheweeds episode 31. 4 people found this useful. William Howe. 362,712 Contributions. The purpose of life is to have a life with purpose.
Some palm trees can grow up to 100 feet tall, so we do not recommend that you try and trim them yourselves. As you can see in the before and after picture below, our professional palm tree trimming staff is able to help you with those really high palm trees that are out of reach for homeowners. 
1 Palm Tree Height – The taller the palm tree is, the more you’ll pay to have it trimmed. 2  Palm trees that are 30 feet tall or shorter will cost between $75 and $400. 3  The ones that are 60 feet or taller typically cost between $200 and $1,200. 4  Condition of Palm Tree – If the tree is trimmed regularly, it will be cheaper. Palm tree removal costs depend on several different factors, but the most important indicator of price is typically the height. As with trimming a palm tree, the height of the tree has a huge impact on how much you will pay: 1  Up to 30 Feet Tall – $150 to $450.
The Bismark palm tree is native to Madagascar.   The Cycad palm tree is native to Australia.   The Palmyra palm tree is native to three different places: India, Africa, and Asia. The fruit of the Butia is edible, the fruit of the Queen palm is not. There is a video on the internet about this palm, type in eattheweeds episode 31. 4 people found this useful. William Howe. 362,712 Contributions. The purpose of life is to have a life with purpose.
The Babassu palm tree is native to Southern Africa.   The Bismark palm tree is native to Madagascar.   The Cycad palm tree is native to Australia.   The Palmyra palm tree is native to three different places: India, Africa, and Asia.   The Carpentaria palm tree is native to Australia. The fruit of the Butia is edible, the fruit of the Queen palm is not. There is a video on the internet about this palm, type in eattheweeds episode 31. 4 people found this useful. William Howe. 362,712 Contributions. The purpose of life is to have a life with purpose.
Palm trees are tropical to sub-tropical plants that come in a wide range of shapes and sizes. They have a few anatomical characteristics in common, one of the chief of which are the leaves. The foliage of a palm tree is called a frond. Most palms grow fronds from the crown (or top) of the plant. The fronds are one major identifying device, second only to the type of trunk the plant grows. Palm leaves come in four main types; pinnate, palmate, bipinnate and entire
1 Cutting too close to the trunk can damage the tree. 2  Remove green fronds only if they hang at an angle below a line that is 90 degrees, or parallel. to the ground. 3  Don't prune fronds that are above this horizontal line as it can weaken the tree. 4  Never cut off the top, or crown, of the palm. 1 Remove green fronds only if they hang at an angle below a line that is 90 degrees, or parallel. to the ground. 2  Don't prune fronds that are above this horizontal line as it can weaken the tree. 3
When an overgrowth of dead fronds hangs down from your palm, you can remove them yourself, if the tree's not too tall. Popular in warm southern climates, palm trees are fairly low maintenance and can grow to 50 feet or taller. After you have cut the dead frond off, you can spend some time skinning the tree. To skin the tree, use a sharp knife to remove the base of the frond that was left after pruning. Cut close to the trunk, be sure not to damage the trunk. The most common shape of the cut palm tree is a diamond shape.