To import a Microsoft Project project: Select File-Import from Microsoft Project. Browse to the Microsoft Project file you want and click OK. Select one of the following options and click Continue : Don't import resources or reconcile names. All tasks will be imported as unassigned. To export a Task Manager tool project to Microsoft Project: Select File-Export to MS Project. Select where you'd like to store your file and click OK. Note, however, that there s no data synchronization between the Groove Project Toolset and Microsoft Project at this time
To import a file. The following steps will walk you through the process of using an existing task outline from a previously saved file, to populate a new project. 1. In Microsoft Project, click the File tab, and click OPEN. 2. Select the file type and name of the file to be imported. 3. Click OPEN. An Import Wizard window will open to assist you with the advanced steps for importing information. 4. Choose to import as a new map. 5.
To insert a new field above another field, click a field in the From column, and then click Insert Row. To remove all task, resource, or assignment fields from an import map, click Clear All. To add all task, resource, or assignment fields of the destination file to the import map, click Add All. To add all task, resource, or assignment fields in your project to the export map, click Add All. To add all task or resource fields of a specific table to the export map, click Base on Table. Click the table you want to use, and then click OK.
Export project information. Click the File tab, and then click Save As. In the Save As type box, select the file format that you want to export data to. In the File name box, type a name for the exported file. Click Save. Follow the instructions in the Export Wizard to export the data that you want into the proper fields of the destination file. To add all task, resource, or assignment fields in your project to the export map, click Add All. To add all task or resource fields of a specific table to the export map, click Base on Table. Click the table you want to use, and then click OK.
1 On the WBS Editor window, choose File → Import from MS Project CSV file. 2  The WBS Editor will prompt for the file to open; browse to and select the file you just exported from MS Project. 3  The new tasks will be added to the bottom of your WBS under a node called Imported Items.. 
In some cases, it is a formal MS Project schedule. In other cases, it is a set of dates described in an email or it is developed in every non-MS Project user’s favorite tool – Excel or a spreadsheet variant. The following is a brief tutorial on how to import an Excel spreadsheet project schedule into Microsoft Project. 
You can import Microsoft Project projects into the Task Manager tool, or export Task Manager tool tasks into Microsoft Project. In order to import or export Microsoft Project files, Microsoft Project must be installed on your computer. Groove supports Microsoft Project '98, 2000, and 2002, with two limitations for '98: To export a Task Manager tool project to Microsoft Project: Select File-Export to MS Project. Select where you'd like to store your file and click OK. Note, however, that there s no data synchronization between the Groove Project Toolset and Microsoft Project at this time.
Most versions of Excel come with a special template so you can move data into Project. To find it, open Excel, choose New in the Backstage area, and from your template choices choose Sample Templates. Select the one called Microsoft Project Task List Import Template. The template will open to a worksheet with a tab that says Info_Table. Do not edit this tab, as it contains template information that Project will access. Instead, click on the Task_Table tab. You can copy and paste your data from the Excel worksheet that you want to import onto this worksheet. Be certain you have column headings on your worksheet. Right now you're going to learn how to import Excel files into Microsoft Project 2010. For many, Excel offers a wide range of features that work well in managing a project. I know project managers who rarely call upon its accounting formulas; some love it just for its ability to sort data and create charts.