The cherimoya is a delicious tropical fruit, which is native to the Andean highlands in the South America, in the valleys of Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Chile and Columbia. It is scientifically known as the Annona cherimola. The cherimoya plant is a semi-evergreen shrub, which may also be deciduous in some places. It might grow as a small shrub or as a small tree extending up to 7 cm in length.
Cherimoya growing tree of the genus Annona, and also known as Annona cherimola. Cherimoya evergreen perennial but in a cold weather become deciduous. Can grow in tropics mediterranean or subtropical climate. 
Soil The cherimoya tree performs well on a wide range of soil types from light to heavy, but seems to do best on a medium soil of moderate fertility. In Argentina, it makes excellent growth on rockstrewn, loose, sandy loam 2 to 3 ft (0.6-0.9 m) above a gravel subsoil. The optimum pH ranges from 6.5 to 7.6. 
Mature fruit turns from dark green to pale green or yellow. Cherimoyas (Annona cherimola Mill.) are appreciated for their smooth texture and sweet pear-like flavor. You seldom see this flavorful fruit in grocery stores because it has a short shelf life, but growing your own tree can be a rewarding experience. 6. Fertilize young trees twice each year with 10-8-6 fertilizer in 6-inch deep trenches dug around the tree at a distance of 5 feet from the trunk. Use 1/2 pound of fertilizer when the tree is six months old and 1 pound when it is a year old. Feed the tree twice with 1 pound of fertilizer in the second year.
Cherimoya is a deciduous or semi-evergreen shrub or small tree reaching 9 m (30 feet) tall. The leaves are alternate, simple, oblong-lanceolate, 7–15 cm long and 6–10 cm broad. The flowers are produced in small clusters, each flower 2–3 cm across, with six petals, yellow-brown, often spotted purple at the base. Today, cherimoya is grown throughout South Asia, Central America, South America, California, Hawaii, southern Europe and northern Africa. Mark Twain called the cherimoya the most delicious fruit known to man.. The creamy texture of the flesh gives the fruit its secondary name, custard apple.
Origin: The cherimoya is believed to be native to the inter-andean valleys of Ecuador, Colombia and Peru. Seeds from Mexico were planted in California (Carpinteria) in 1871. Adaptation: The cherimoya is subtropical or mild-temperate and will tolerate light frosts. Young growing tips are killed at 29° F and and mature trees are killed or severely injured at 25° F. If cherimoyas do not receive enough chilling, the trees will go dormant slowly and then experience delayed foliation.
The cherimoya tree is a sub-tropical, small tree, which extends to a size of about 7 meters. The tree is a deciduous or semi-evergreen one. The tree is fast growing and is fairly dense. Its leaves are simple, growing alternately, and is oblong in shape. They are about 2 to 8 inches in length and 4 inches wide. It is scientifically known as the Annona cherimola. The cherimoya plant is a semi-evergreen shrub, which may also be deciduous in some places. It might grow as a small shrub or as a small tree extending up to 7 cm in length.
The cherimoya tree (Annona cherimola) is a fruit-producing tree native to Colombia, Ecuador and Bolivia, according to Purdue University. In the United States, the trees can only be grown outdoors in California, Hawaii and Florida or anywhere within U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 and 10. 
The cherimoya is a fruit produced on evergreen trees native to South America. Cherimoya fruits are green, heart-or cone-shaped and grow from 4 to 8 inches in length. They have white flesh and a very sweet flavor when fully ripe, which occurs from October until May. Cherimoya trees have thick, dark green foliage and grow up to 30 feet tall