The score entered for handicap purposes will always be the adjusted gross score achieved with a maximum score on any hole of 2 over par if your handicap is 18 and below and 3 over par on any holes where you double stroke if your handicap is above 18. 
Sarah's answer is correct. You need a minimum of five (5) scores to establish a handicap on GHIN. Just remember once you have an established handicap to use Equitable Stroke Control (based on your index there's a max score you can have on any one hole). Leafsfan29-Embrace the drought! · 4 years ago.
Slope ratings range from 55 to 155. A course of standard difficulty will have a Slope Rating of 113. Your handicap is adjusted for a course using the Slope Rating. Top Adjusted Score In the traditional handicap methods the actual score you shot on a course is adjusted for the maximum shots allowed on each hole. The maximum number of shots permitted for each hole vary based on your current level of play (handicap). 
A course with a handicap of 30 through 39 has a maximum score of 9. Finally, a course with a handicap of 40 or above has a maximum allowed score of 10. For example, if you play a course with a handicap of 15 and you take 11 shots on a hole, your score would be reduced from 11 to the maximum level of 7. The U.S. Golf Association allows a maximum score of a double bogey -- two over par -- on courses with a handicap of 9. For a course with a handicap of 10 to 19, the maximum score is 7. For a handicap of 20 to 29, the maximum score is 8.
Not long at all. Once you've joined a golf club that uses the USGA's system, you only have to turn in five scores (from five 18-hole rounds of golf) in order to first receive a handicap index. Eventually, your handicap index will be figured using the lowest 10 scores from your 20 most-recent rounds of golf. 
For each score posted, a handicap differential is calculated. The formula is: Handicap Differential = (Adjusted Gross score – USGA/SCGA Course Rating) x 113 / USGA/SCGA Slope Rating. Using this example: 1  Bill’s adjusted gross score was 95 at a course with 73.5/130 (Course Rating/Slope Rating). Q: I just joined a club and already have 18-hole scores in my score file but my file still shows NH. Your score file will show NH (no Handicap Index) until it goes through a revision on the 1st or 15th of the month. If you need your Handicap Index prior to the revision, your club's Handicap Committee can issue you a local handicap when at least five scores are posted (identified by a capital L-ex
Calculating Handicap. Adjust your scores by applying the maximum score allowed for each hole. The U.S. Golf Association allows a maximum score of a double bogey -- two over par -- on courses with a handicap of 9. For a course with a handicap of 10 to 19, the maximum score is 7. For a handicap of 20 to 29, the maximum score is 8.