The urinary bladder is located along the body’s midline at the inferior end of the pelvis. Urine entering the urinary bladder from the ureters slowly fills the hollow space of the bladder and stretches its elastic walls. The walls of the bladder allow it to stretch to hold anywhere from 600 to 800 milliliters of urine. The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra.
Ureterovesical Junction (UVJ) Obstruction. The uretrovesical junction is located where the ureter (the tube that drains urine from the kidney) meets the bladder. Ureterovesical junction (UVJ) obstruction refers to a blockage to this area. 
The urinary bladder is a muscular sac in the pelvis, just above and behind the pubic bone. When empty, the bladder is about the size and shape of a pear. Urine is made in the kidneys, and travels down two tubes called ureters to the bladder. The bladder stores urine, allowing urination to be infrequent and voluntary. 
About every 10 to 15 seconds, small amounts of urine are emptied into the bladder from the ureters. Bladder. This triangle-shaped, hollow organ located in the pelvis. It is held in place by ligaments that are attached to other organs and the pelvic bones. Two ureters. These narrow tubes carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Muscles in the ureter walls continually tighten and relax forcing urine downward, away from the kidneys. If urine backs up, or is allowed to stand still, a kidney infection can develop.
In human anatomy, the ureters are tubes made of smooth muscle fibers that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. In the adult, the ureters are usually 25–30 cm (10–12 in) long and ~3–4 mm in diameter. Histologically, the ureter contains transitional epithelium and an additional smooth muscle layer in the more distal one-third to assist with peristalsis. At the entrance to the bladder, the ureters are surrounded by valves known as ureterovesical valves, which prevent the backflow of urine. In females, the ureters pass through the mesometrium and under the uterine arteries on the way
The ureters are retroperitoneal, which means that they are located in the retroperitoneal space (i.e. the area between the back/posterior surface of the parietal peritoneum and the front/anterior of the lumbar vertebrae). 
The ureter is the tube that connects each kidney to the bladder. The kidneys clean the blood and filter waste from it. This process produces a liquid waste, urine. Urine flows … from the kidneys through the ureters to the bladder. The urine is stored in the bladder until a person urinates. During urination, the urine leaves the body by passing from the bladder through another tube, the urethra, which is open at one end. in humans, ureters are two pairs of long muscular tubes (about 25-30cm) that carry urine from kidneys to urinarry bladders. An example of this is a duplicate ureter, where there is an extra ureter running from a kidney to t … he bladder. Uterocele is a narrowing of the ureter which could cause urine to back up into the kidneys and damage the kidney. This is usually caused by a small tumor or hernia.
Ureter. The ureter is a tube that carries urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder. There are two ureters, one attached to each kidney. The upper half of the ureter is located in the abdomen and the lower half is located in the pelvic area. The ureter is about 10 to 12 inches long in the average adult. The tube has thick walls composed of a fibrous, a muscular, and a mucus coat, which are able to contract. Ureter disorders include:
Each ureter enters the bladder through a tunnel in the bladder wall, which is angled to prevent the urine from running back into the ureter when the bladder contracts. A ureter is one of two uterine tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Each ureter is about ten to twelve inches long. Urine flows down partly by gravity, but mainly by waves of contractions, which pass several times per minute through the muscle layers of the urethral walls.
The kidneys filter metabolic wastes, excess ions, and chemicals from the blood to form urine. Ureters. The ureters are a pair of tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. The ureters are about 10 to 12 inches long and run on the left and right sides of the body parallel to the vertebral column. The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra.