Cost of Virginia Assisted Living Facilities. According to the 2015 Genworth Financial cost of care survey, the average cost of assisted living in Virginia is $3,933 per month. The monthly base rate for Virginia assisted living is typically higher when compared to neighboring states. Virginia is also more expensive compared to the national average. This cost is the base cost for a one-bedroom assisted living unit in Virginia. Additional fees beyond the base rate may apply. If built after 1996, an assisted living facility must provide a minimum of 100 square feet of living space, and no more than two residents may share a room. If built prior to 1996, up to four residents may share a room and at least 80 square feet of living space is required per resident.
Just as the cost of real estate varies by geographic area, assisted living costs also vary nationwide. In the 2015 Cost of Care Survey conducted by Genworth Financial, assisted living showed an increase of 2.86% compared to the 2014 costs and the national median monthly rate is $3,600. Ranging from $1,000 to $5,000, this fee is non-refundable and covers administrative expenses and the cost of apartment renovations between residents. Other assisted living costs may include fees for private transportation, off-site activities, guest meals and use of a guest apartment within the community.
The average cost for a private one-bedroom apartment in an assisted living residence is over $3,000 per month, according to research compiled by several nonprofit senior living organizations, including the Assisted Living Federation of America. 
Virginia's largest cities (all with populations well above 100,000) are Virginia Beach, Norfolk, Richmond, Arlington and Chesapeake. In comparison to the national average, Virginia's overall cost of living is moderate. Personal income taxes are collected in five income brackets, ranging from 3.0% to 5.75%.
Prices for Assisted Living in Richmond, VA ranged from $2,000 - $5,250 per month. The average cost of Assisted Living in the Richmond area in 2014 was found to be $4,018 per month. “When inquiring about the cost of assisted living, it is important to ask what amenities are included, and compare it with what you’re currently paying for electric or other utilities,” says Ross. Extensive article series aims to help seniors and their families evaluate the costs of assisted living in their city. The average cost of Assisted Living in the Richmond area in 2014 was found to be $4,018 per month.
Again, costs vary by state, but the average monthly cost for an assisted living center in most states is between $1000 and $3000 per month. Monthly costs in Alaska, Hawaii, Vermont, Washington D.C. and Wyoming are higher than average, sometimes up to $5000 per month. 
Virginia's Medicaid program pays for nursing home stays for those without a lot of income who need help with activities of daily living. Nursing homes are expensive; in 2011, the average daily cost of a private room in a nursing home in Virginia was $217. Assisted living facilities and home health care services are a bit more affordable, but still costly. 
The national median monthly rate for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility is $3,500, according to the 2014 Cost of Care Survey released in April by Genworth Financial Inc. of Richmond, Virginia. That's $42,000 per year, an increase of 1.45 percent over 2013. 
Communities that provide assisted living services in Virginia are called Adult Care Facilities. Adult Care Facilities are licensed to provide personal as well as health care services, around-the-clock supervision and assistance to four or more elderly adults in a residential setting. In Virginia there are 408 Assisted Living Facilities.