A: In most cases, you have to pay a fee when you ask the court to change your child’s name. People with very low incomes can get a fee waiver and do not have to pay the court fee. Click here to find out more about fee waivers. On top of the court fee, you may have to pay to publish notice of the hearing on your petition (the Order to Show Cause for Change of Name) in a newspaper. Publishing the name change notice in a local newspaper is required in most name change cases. A: It depends. It will probably be easier in the long run if you have your child’s birth certificate changed. But you do not need to because the court order is enough to get any government-issued documents changed or to prove you changed
If you are an adult without a criminal record, changing your name is a matter of filling out the name change forms required in your jurisdiction, publishing the name change request in a newspaper to inform creditors, and appearing in court, if required, for a hearing. Courts often provide lists of acceptable newspapers, and it pays to call a few in advance to find out their prices. In some states, you need to pay an additional fee for a certified copy of the decree changing your name, an official document that may be required to change the names on your driver's license or passport. If you hire an attorney to do the work for you, your attorney fees may cost several hundred dollars an hour
Free Legal Name Change. Change your legal name online quickly with TotalLegal. You can change a name for a variety of reasons, including personal choice, to share the name of a spouse, to change the name of a child, or to change a name after divorce. TotalLegal makes it easy. 
Or. 1  You are changing your name and you are in the State Witness Program or you are in the address confidentiality program and are changing your name to avoid domestic violence or stalking or are a victim of sexual assault (or asking for a name change on behalf of a victim of sexual assault). ). A: It depends. It will probably be easier in the long run if you have your child’s birth certificate changed. But you do not need to because the court order is enough to get any government-issued documents changed or to prove you changed your child’s name.
By state laws, you have the right to change your own name; however, if you are filing a name change for a minor, the other parent or a legal guardian may object. In such a contested case, a hearing and litigation will be necessary -- and you may need the services of an attorney to ensure a successful outcome. Throughout the state of Utah, for example, the fee is $360 for a name change petition, while in Maricopa County, Arizona, the fee is $301, but in King County, Washington, the fee is only $150.
To legally change your name, you must file a petition in the court of the county where you reside. The clerk will require identification, and schedule a hearing in front of a judge or magistrate. Each court has its own filing requirements and procedure, although all bar a name change for the purpose of fraud or evasion of the police. All will require a filing fee and additional costs according to these requirements. Throughout the state of Utah, for example, the fee is $360 for a name change petition, while in Maricopa County, Arizona, the fee is $301, but in King County, Washington, the fee is only $150.
Best Answer: The cost depends on the state, but the average cost for a legal name change is $100 (court costs). You don't mention if you are an adult or a minor. An adult may file a name change application with a court after living in that jurisdiction for at least 12 months. Each state has its own forms and requirements. Search on Your State and name change to find the laws and forms. After the court grants you the name change, you'll still have to change all your other records including Social Security and drivers license and any other legal documents.
If you live in New York City, you may bring a name change proceeding in any county in the city. It costs $65.00 to change a name in Civil Court. You can use the Civil Court's free and easy DIY (Do-It-Yourself) Forms to make an adult name change Petition or a minor name change Petition. Or go the Name Change Forms list for free civil court forms that you need, or you may go to the name change location in the courthouse and get the forms from the court clerk.