Confidence votes 109. For a navel piercing it may take 3 months to a year (sometimes a little longer) to completely heal. My navel only took 2 months for mine to heal. I was told it would take 4-6 months by the place I had it done
In a navel piercing it will add months to the healing time. 3. If you cannot stop smoking then you should reconsider having any piercings. * Swimming Swimming is not prohibited while your piercing is healing, but you should only swim for short periods in pools that are thoroughly chlorine-or ozone-treated. Wet the piercing with plain water. 3. Put a few drops of antibacterial soap on the piercing and work them into a lather with a cotton bud. 4. Try to loosen any crusted discharge and float it off the jewelry and your skin with the
A completely healed belly button piercing can take up to one and a half years. Belly button piercings can be difficult to heal because of exposure to poorly chlorinated waters; also clothing and sweat can irritate the piercing. Factors that can slow the healing process include bad quality jewelry, stress, illness, lack of proper care and a poor diet. How long does a belly button piercing take to heal. I had my belly button pierced yesterday. I felt a bit of pain, but when the bar was put in, the pain went away.
Navels take a long time to heal because the navel is on your waist, which is the hinge of your body, it is subject to a lot of movement; clothes constantly rub and irritate the piercing. It usually takes 3-4 months to heal, but in some cases it can take up to 12 months to heal. 
Well the piercing needs to heal, this can take up to a year for a piercing to become seasoned (this is when you can remove the jewellery for a few hours and not have an issue … putting it back in). Average heal time can vary from piercing to piercing from 4~6 weeks for some and other a lot longer. Light heals are not considered healed and can be damaged by removing the jewellery too soon. Nostril piercings can take 6 months to 1 year to heal completely, and a septum piercing usually takes about 3 months. For a navel piercing it may take 3 months to a year (sometimes a little longer) to completely heal. My navel only took 2 months for mine to heal. I was told it would take 4-6 months by the place I had it done
Healing time is different depending on the part of your body that you get pierced. Some parts are more likely to get infected or have problems. Piercings on your ear lobes usually take about 6-8 weeks to heal. However, piercings on the side of your ear (cartilage) can take anywhere from 4 months to 1 year to heal.
The belly button is in an area that heals slowly, however, because it’s right where the body twists and turns, which slows the healing process. It also doesn’t get as much air circulation because it is covered much of the time. It can take up to six months or even a year for a belly button piercing to heal completely. The healing time for a body piercing varies depending upon what you’ve had pierced. Some parts of the body heal more quickly than others.