Eye Color Changes Over Time. Over time, if melanocytes only secrete a little melanin, your baby will have blue eyes. If they secrete a bit more, his eyes will look green or hazel. When melanocytes get really busy, eyes look brown (the most common eye color), and in some cases they may appear very dark indeed.
But even if two parents have brown eyes, they could both have one gene for blue eyes. If they each pass this gene to their baby, then the baby will have two genes for blue eyes and will actually have blue eyes. The gene for green eyes is also dominant over blue eye color, but is recessive to brown.
Her eyes may be blue only temporarily; babies' eyes can change color if the brown pigment melanin develops as they grow. We used to think of brown being dominant and blue being recessive.. But modern science has shown that eye color is not at all that simple.
1 Two brown-eyed parents are likely (but not guaranteed) to have a child with brown eyes. 2  If you notice one of the grandparents has blue eyes, the chances of having a blue-eyed baby go up a bit. 3  If one parent has brown eyes and the other has blue eyes, odds are about even on eye color.
You may be anxious to see your baby's permanent eye color, but there's nothing to do but wait. If a baby's eyes are going to change, most of the darkening happens during the first 6 months of life. Your baby's eyes may continue changing gradually after that.
If both parents have brown eyes, it's likely that the baby's eyes will be brown. If one parent has blue eyes and one has brown, your baby has about a 50 percent chance of having blue eyes and a 50 percent chance of having brown eyes. It's not so easy to predict whether a baby will have green or hazel eyes.
You should know that many babies are born with blue eyes, which may change color (usually becoming darker) over the course of the first year of life. Usually your baby's eye color at 6 to 9 months should be close to the permanent hue. What color your baby's eyes will ultimately be depends on the kinds of dominant and recessive genes she received from you and your husband at the time of conception.
1 Two blue-eyed parents are very likely to have a blue-eyed child, but it won’t happen every single time. 2  Two brown-eyed parents are likely (but not guaranteed) to have a child with brown eyes. 3  If you notice one of the grandparents has blue eyes, the chances of having a blue-eyed baby go up a bit.