Juniper berry was first intended as a medication since juniper berries are a diuretic and were also thought to be an appetite stimulant and a remedy for rheumatism and arthritis. Native Americans are reported to have used the juniper berry as an appetite suppressant in times of hunger. A juniper berry is the female seed cone produced by the various species of junipers. It is not a true berry but a cone with unusually fleshy and merged scales, which give it a berry-like appearance.
Dried juniper berries (or fresh ones, when they are available) are used as a flavoring in Northern European cuisine, especially in Scandinavia, Germany and the Alsace region of France. Americans are most likely to have encountered juniper in gin, the liquor that gets its name from the Dutch or French word for juniper. 
Juniper is a short to medium-height tree that grows wild in some parts of Europe, North America, and Asia. There are many varieties of juniper, but Juniperus communis is the most common in North America. People use the juniper berry to make medicine. Medicinal preparations include the extract of juniper berry, as well as the essential oil of juniper berry.
Juniper berries, here still attached to a branch, are actually modified conifer cones. A juniper berry is the female seed cone produced by the various species of junipers. It is not a true berry but a cone with unusually fleshy and merged scales, which give it a berry-like appearance.
Juniper (Juniperus osteosperma and scopulorum) essential oil. Juniper berries are a spice used in a wide variety of culinary dishes and best known for the primary flavoring in gin (and responsible for gin's name, which is a shortening of the Dutch word for juniper, genever). Juniper berries are also used as the primary flavor in the liquor Jenever and sahti-style of beers. Juniper berry sauce is often a popular flavoring choice for quail, pheasant, veal, rabbit, venison and other meat dishes.
Juniper berries recipes. The spicy, aromatic, dark berries of the juniper tree can be used fresh or dried, crushed or whole, to flavour casseroles, marinades and stuffings and complement pork, rabbit, venison, beef and duck. They can also be used in sweet dishes such as fruitcake. Juniper berries also provide the main flavouring for gin
Comments. Submit. Juniper berries have been in use since the time of the Greeks. They have had many uses from medicinal to culinary for hundreds of years. If you have access to this interesting spice, you can use juniper berries in a number of different ways, from seasoning food to being used as a diuretic. However, fresh juniper berries can be dangerous to ingest for those with kidney problems or those who are pregnant.
Meats. Juniper berries can be crushed fresh and used in marinades for a variety of meats, from wild game like venison and rabbit to beef and pork. Goulash can also be flavored with juniper berries. Dried juniper berries can be crushed and used in meat marinades, but they are not as flavorful as fresh juniper berries. If you have access to this interesting spice, you can use juniper berries in a number of different ways, from seasoning food to being used as a diuretic. However, fresh juniper berries can be dangerous to ingest for those with kidney problems or those who are pregnant.
Eating more juniper berries may help improve digestion and prevent disease. You probably know the piney flavor of juniper berries from their use in flavoring gin, but you may not know that they have a wide variety of medicinal benefits.