Q: Some time back I listened to a radio caller asking about wasps that pollinate figs. Based on what I heard, I told my sister that the wasps only pollinate the Mission figs that grow in California. My sister disagreed and now my research says all figs are pollinated by a wasps. A: I’m not always right, but I’m right often enough to keep my hopes up. So I was wrong to say ‘Mission’ figs depend on wasps; it’s the ‘Calimyrna’ fig that I was thinking of on radio. “Common” figs, including ‘Brown Turkey”, ‘Celeste’, Brunswick’ and ‘Mission’ do not need pollination.
A female fig wasp (Tetrapus americanus) is about to enter a flowering fig (Ficus maxima). Copyright Christian Ziegler, www.naturphoto.de. Once inside, the fig wasp will pollinate and lay her eggs in the flowers that line the inside of the fig. The researchers also found that among the actively pollinated fig species, pollen-free wasps were much more common when the trees had weak sanctions. Sanctions seem to be a necessary force in keeping this and other mutually beneficial relationships on track when being part of a mutualism is costly, said Jander. jandér
Each fig tree species is usually pollinated by one fig wasp species that is only associated with that fig species, a host-specific relationship that plays a major role in the prevention of hybridisation between different species of fig trees. Careful, close and patient observation of figs that are receptive for pollination would enlighten the observer to a fascinating world, for fig trees are completely dependant on tiny wasps, a couple of millimeters long, for their propagation and survival.
Wild populations of Ficus carica are gynodioecious with male trees (caprifigs) and female trees. Edible figs are produced on female trees only if they are pollinated by fig wasps (Blastophaga psenes) from the syconia of male trees. The male syconia contain wasps and pollen, and are generally not eaten. They were named caprifigs because they were commonly fed to goats. Excessive pollination by fig wasps from a nearby caprifig tree caused the syconium to split open. This is why Calimyrna growers keep their male caprifig trees a safe distance from the Calimyrna orchards, and only place a few wasp-laden caprifig syconia in the paper bags that are stapled to Calimyrna trees.
Like all fig trees, Ficus carica requires wasp pollination of a particular species of wasp (Blastophaga psenes) to produce seeds. The plant can tolerate seasonal drought, and the Middle Eastern and Mediterranean climate is especially suitable for the plant. Fig fruit is an important food source for much of the fauna in some areas, and the tree owes its expansion to those that feed on its fruit. The common fig tree also sprouts from the root and stolon issues. The infructescence is pollinated by a symbiosis with a kind of fig wasp (Blastophaga psenes). The fertilized female wasp enters the fig through the scion, which is a tiny hole in the crown (the ostiole). She crawls on the inflorescence inside the fig and pollinates some of the female flowers
Insect Pollination. Each species of fig tree is pollinated by a specific species of gall-wasp, according to Kirsten Albrecht Llamas, author of Tropical Flowering Plants.. The female wasp travels into the fig syconium via the ostiole and fumbles around inside it. Thus, the tiny gall-wasp is not needed to form fig fruits, although no seeds are produced if pollination doesn't occur. In some species of fig trees, if female syconia are not pollinated by gall-wasps, they simply abort and drop off the tree, according to Wayne's Word.
Consideration of how fig trees are pollinated may leave the observer with a conundrum. Pollinators of plants can often be predicted, based on flower characteristics of colour, fragrance and shape. Careful, close and patient observation of figs that are receptive for pollination would enlighten the observer to a fascinating world, for fig trees are completely dependant on tiny wasps, a couple of millimeters long, for their propagation and survival.