Tracy Ashton is an actress, known for Stuck on You (2003), Inland Empire (2006) and My Name Is Earl (2005). See full bio ». 
My Name Is Earl aired in off-network syndication and on TBS, Ion Television, and MyNetworkTV in the United States. Canada airs the series on Joytv and Peachtree TV. The series premiered in January 2006 on Channel 4 in the UK. The fourth and Final season was shown on E4 in January 2009.n the season 3 episode Making the Band every major actor from My Name Is Earl appeared as their Raising Hope characters in a storyline that contained an abundance of references to the former show, including the list itself and background music.
Velazquez has appeared in print ads, television, and film. Her first acting role was a McDonald's commercial as a drive-through lady. She was originally cast as Fernando Sucre 's girlfriend, Maricruz Delgado, in the Fox television series Prison Break, but acquired a role in My Name Is Earl instead.
She also appeared nude in the May 2006 issue of Allure. Pressly guest starred in episodes of several TV shows. In an episode of the WB series Charmed, she played Mylie, a mermaid trying to find love; (Alyssa Milano, who played Phoebe, later guest starred on My Name is Earl. ) Other series on which she made guest appearances were The Twilight Zone, Fastlane, Las Vegas, Becker, Night Man, Silk Stalkings and others. In 2005, Pressly was cast in the NBC sitcom My Name Is Earl, as Joy Turner. In 2007 she won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for her work on the show. Pressly sang Fever in an appearance with the band The Pussycat Doll
Nadine Velazquez is a sexy actress best known for her roles on the television shows My Name Is Earl and The League..
- Add to My Shows. Upon discovering that he is the holder of a winning lottery ticket, Earl is hit by a car and the ticket blows out of his hand as he lies unconscious in the street. While recovering in the hospital and watching television, Earl has a karmic epiphany, and sets out to right every wrong he has done... Watch Preview.
195 195. Actress/Model http://nadinevelazquez.com/ Nadine Velazquez is a sexy actress best known for her roles on the television shows My Name Is Earl and The League.. She also was featured in a very racy scene at the beginning of the 2012 movie Flight with Denzel Washington. Nadine Velazquez. Nadine. Velazquez.
My Name Is Earl is an American television comedy series created by Greg Garcia that aired on the NBC television network from September 20, 2005, to May 14, 2009, in the United States. It was produced by 20th Century Fox Television and starred Jason Lee as the title character, Earl Hickey. In the season 3 episode Making the Band every major actor from My Name Is Earl appeared as their Raising Hope characters in a storyline that contained an abundance of references to the former show, including the list itself and background music.
In 2012, Velazquez appeared in the movie Flight, playing flight attendant Katerina Marquez, a supporting role opposite the main protagonist character played by Denzel Washington. In 2013, Velazquez reunited with her former My Name is Earl cast members for a guest appearance in Raising Hope. Velazquez joined the main cast of the TNT series Major Crimes, beginning with season two. She plays Emma Rios, a DA, who is a romantic interest of Raymond Cruz 's Julio Sanchez. Cruz played Paco, her boy-friend, on My Name is Earl. Her first acting role was a McDonald's commercial as a drive-through lady. She was originally cast as Fernando Sucre 's girlfriend, Maricruz Delgado, in the Fox television series Prison Break, but acquired a role in My Name Is Earl instead.