Vibration white finger (VWF), also known as hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS) or dead finger,) is a secondary form of Raynaud's syndrome, an industrial injury triggered by continuous use of vibrating hand-held machinery. Its best known effect is vibration-induced white finger (VWF), a term introduced by the Industrial Injury Advisory Council in 1970. Injury can occur at frequencies between 5 and 2000 Hz but the greatest risk is between 50 and 150 Hz.
Vibration White Finger is a repetitive stress injury where the small blood vessels in the fingers periodically spasm. The spams cause constriction of the blood supply to the fingertips turning the fingers white. Soon after, the available oxygen in the blood is used up and the fingers turn blue. Once the spasms subside the fingers turn red as oxygenated blood returns to the finger tips. Vibration White Finger is a form of Raynaud's Phenomenon. These spams can be caused by many different things. When spasms occur due to physiological issues or drugs it is known as Raynaud's Disease. When it is caused by trauma it is known as Raynaud's Phenomenon
Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to different parts of your body. Raynaud's sometimes is called a disease, syndrome, or phenomenon. The disorder is marked by brief episodes of vasospasm (VA-so-spazm), which is a narrowing of the blood vessels. Vasospasm of the arteries reduces blood flow to the fingers and toes. In people who have Raynaud's, the disorder usually affects the fingers. This type of Raynaud's is often called Raynaud's phenomenon. If you have primary or secondary Raynaud's, cold temperatures or stress can trigger Raynaud's attacks.. During an attack, little or no blood flows to affected body parts. As a result, the skin may turn white and then blue for a short time.
Vibration white finger syndrome claims. Vibration white finger (VWF), or hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS) affects people whose jobs involve them using vibrating tools over a long period of time. If you suffer from vibration white finger, it may be that your employers are to blame. 
In medicine, Raynaud's /reɪˈnoʊz/ Disease or Raynaud phenomenon is excessively reduced blood flow in response to cold or emotional stress, causing discolouration of the fingers, toes, and occasionally other areas. This condition may also cause nails to become brittle with longitudinal ridges. 
Vibration white finger, also known as hand-arm vibration syndrome, is one of the causes of Raynaud phenomenon. 
The symptoms of vibrating white finger are the vascular component of HAVS. HAVS is a widespread recognized industrial disease affecting tens of thousands of workers. It is a disorder that affects the blood vessels, nerves, muscles, and joints, of the hand, wrist, and arm. Its best known effect is vibration-induced white finger (VWF), a term introduced by the Industrial Injury Advisory Council in 1970. Injury can occur at frequencies between 5 and 2000 Hz but the greatest risk is between 50 and 150 Hz.
This disorder is also known as vibration-induced white finger, hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS), or Raynaud's phenomenon of occupational origin.. Raynaud's phenomenon, however, is only one aspect of the hand-arm vibration syndrome. Vibration also damages nerves, muscles, bones and joints of the hand and arm. This is called primary Raynaud's phenomenon, Raynaud's disease or constitutional white finger.. It usually affects both hands equally. People can also get Raynaud's phenomenon because of certain underlying diseases (e.g. scleroderma, rheumatoid arthritis or lupus) or injuries.
Exposure to cold abnormally reduces blood circulation causing the skin to become pale, waxy-white or purple. The disorder is sometimes called white finger, wax finger or dead finger.. Raynaud's phenomenon has many different causes including workplace exposures. This is called primary Raynaud's phenomenon, Raynaud's disease or constitutional white finger.. It usually affects both hands equally. People can also get Raynaud's phenomenon because of certain underlying diseases (e.g. scleroderma, rheumatoid arthritis or lupus) or injuries.
0. 4. The hand-arm vibration syndrome causes changes in sensory perception which can lead to permanent numbness of fingers, muscle weakness and, in some cases, bouts of white finger. It is caused by working with vibrating tools. 