1 A ratio variable, has all the properties of an interval variable, and also has a clear definition of 0.0. 2  When the variable equals 0.0, there is none of that variable. 3  Variables like height, weight, enzyme activity are ratio variables. 4  Temperature, expressed in F or C, is not a ratio variable. 1 Another example would be movie ratings, from * to 2  *****. A interval variable is a measurement where the difference between two values is meaningful. 3  The difference between a temperature of 100 degrees and 90 degrees is the same difference as between 90 degrees and 80 degrees.
1 A 95% confidence interval does not mean that for a given realised interval calculated from sample data there is a 95% probability the population parameter lies within the interval, nor that there is a 95% probability that the interval covers the population parameter. 1 The explanation of a confidence interval can amount to something like: . 2  The confidence interval represents values for the population parameter for which the difference between the parameter and the observed estimate is not statistically significant at the 10% level .
In statistics, interval estimation is the use of sample data to calculate an interval of possible (or probable) values of an unknown population parameter, in contrast to point estimation, which is a single number. 
A term used in inferential statistics that measures the probability that a population parameter will fall between two set values. The confidence interval can take any number of probabilities, with the most common being 95% or 99%. In other words, a confidence interval is the probability that a value will fall between an upper and lower bound of a probability distribution. For example, given a 99% confidence interval, stock XYZ's return will fall between -6.7% and +8.3% over the next year.
1 A particular confidence interval of 95% calculated from an experiment does not mean that there is a 95% probability of a sample mean from a repeat of the experiment falling within this interval. 1 The explanation of a confidence interval can amount to something like: . 2  The confidence interval represents values for the population parameter for which the difference between the parameter and the observed estimate is not statistically significant at the 10% level .
Confidence intervals consist of a range of values (interval) that act as good estimates of the unknown population parameter; however, in infrequent cases, none of these values may cover the value of the parameter. It does not describe any single sample. 1 The explanation of a confidence interval can amount to something like: . 2  The confidence interval represents values for the population parameter for which the difference between the parameter and the observed estimate is not statistically significant at the 10% level .
1 A 95% confidence interval does not mean that 95% of the sample data lie within the interval. 2  A confidence interval is not a range of plausible values for the sample mean, though it may be understood as an estimate of plausible values for the population parameter. 1 The explanation of a confidence interval can amount to something like: . 2  The confidence interval represents values for the population parameter for which the difference between the parameter and the observed estimate is not statistically significant at the 10% level .
Some interval estimates would include the true population parameter and some would not. A 90% confidence level means that we would expect 90% of the interval estimates to include the population parameter; A 95% confidence level means that 95% of the intervals would include the parameter; and so on. 
Confidence votes 52. You construct a 95% confidence interval for a parameter such as mean, variance etc. It is an interval in which you are 95 % certain (there is a 95 % probability) that the true unknown parameter lies. The concept of a 95% Confidence Interval (95% CI) is one that is somewhat elusive.