Home / Forex Trading / Forex. The foreign exchange market (forex, FX, or currency market) is a worldwide, decentralised, over-the-counter financial market for trading currencies. 
Forex is a commonly used abbreviation for foreign exchange, and it is typically used to describe trading in the foreign exchange market by investors and speculators. Currencies trade on an open market, just like stocks, bonds, computers, cars, and many other goods and services. A currency's value fluctuates as its supply and demand fluctuates, just like anything else. 1  An increase in supply or a decrease in demand for a currency can cause the value of that currency to fall.
The foreign exchange market, which is usually known as “forex” or “FX,” is the largest financial market in the world. Compared to the measly $22.4 billion per day volume of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the foreign exchange market looks absolutely ginormous with its $5.3 TRILLION a day trade volume. Check out the graph of the average daily trading volume for the forex market, New York Stock Exchange, Tokyo Stock Exchange, and London Stock Exchange: The currency market is over 200 times BIGGER! It is HUGE! But hold your horses, there’s a catch!
The need to exchange currencies is the primary reason why the forex market is the largest, most liquid financial market in the world. It dwarfs other markets in size, even the stock market, with an average traded value of around U.S. $2,000 billion per day. and. . As such, the forex market can be extremely active any time of the day, with price quotes changing constantly. Spot Market and the Forwards and Futures Markets There are actually three ways that institutions, corporations and individuals trade forex: the spot market, the forwards market and the futures market.
The foreign exchange market (forex, FX, or currency market) is a global decentralized market for the trading of currencies. This includes all aspects of buying, selling and exchanging currencies at current or determined prices. In the context of the foreign exchange market, traders liquidate their positions in various currencies to take up positions in safe-haven currencies, such as the US dollar. Sometimes, the choice of a safe haven currency is more of a choice based on prevailing sentiments rather than one of economic statistics.
In the forex spot market, most currencies are traded against the U.S. dollar, and the U.S. dollar is frequently the base currency in the currency pair. In these cases, it is called a direct quote. This would apply to the above USD/JPY currency pair, which indicates that US$1 is equal to 119.50 Japanese yen. 
The foreign exchange market is the place where currencies are traded. Currencies are important to most people around the world, whether they realize it or not, because currencies need to be exchanged in order to conduct foreign trade and business. If you are living in the. and want to buy cheese from. and. . As such, the forex market can be extremely active any time of the day, with price quotes changing constantly. Spot Market and the Forwards and Futures Markets There are actually three ways that institutions, corporations and individuals trade forex: the spot market, the forwards market and the futures market.
— the foreign exchange market or currency market or Forex is the market where one currency is traded for another. It is one of the largest markets in the world. 
The Forex (Foreign Exchange) Market is the largest market in the world. It is the market where currencies are traded. Each day, more than 4 trillion dollars are exchanged. The Forex market is open 24 hours a day, so that you can be right there trading whenever you hear a financial scoop.
Foreign exchange, commonly known as ‘Forex’ or ‘FX’, is the exchange of one currency for another at an agreed exchange price on the over-the-counter (OTC) market. Forex is the world’s most traded market, with an average turnover in excess of US$4 trillion per day. Compare this to the New York Stock Exchange, which has a daily turnover of around US$50 billion and it’s easy to see how the foreign exchange market is the biggest financial market in the world. Essentially, forex trading is the act of simultaneously buying one currency while selling another, primarily for the purpose of speculation. Currency values rise (appreciate) and fall (depreciate) against each other due to a number of factors including economics and geopolitics.