Not all clinical counselors earn this median -- or average, for that matter -- wage. Some earn much more, largely due to the employer. Clinical counselors working for insurance carriers tend to earn the most in the nation, averaging just over $62,000 a year.
Licensed Clinical Professional Counselors will also find cushy salaries in Chicago (+4 percent). Falling short of the national average by 15 percent, the area with the worst salaries is Dayton. On the whole, employers pay 10 percent below the median salary for those in this field in Portland and Cleveland.
Across the United States, the annual median salary for the Licensed Professional Counselors for mental health is $39,450. A Licensed Professional Counselor for chemical dependency is $40,540. For rehabilitation counselor is $36,547 and for clinical therapist is $40,259, both are for licensed professional counselors.
As with any job, location affects salaries, and clinical counselors are no exception. Those working in Alaska tend to earn the most in the nation, averaging $55,080 a year. Nevada-based counselors also fare better than most, earning an average of $51,640.
With a master’s degree in counseling, you can expect long-term career prospects with attractive salaries. Potential earnings depend on the industry and location, but counselors with a master’s degree can make as much as $70,000 a year, according to The Bureau of Labor Statistics.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Licensed Professional Counselor in the United States is $37,197, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Licensed Professional Counselor in the United States are expected to make less than $37,197. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary.
For many Licensed Clinical Professional Counselors, extensive experience does not lead to significantly more money. Those who have worked for fewer than five years take home a median salary of $42K, and workers with five to 10 years of experience earn a higher $46K on average.
Salary Overview. In 2011, mental health counselors averaged $42,590 a year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Because high salaries can skew the average, median wage is often a better indication of a counselor’s earnings. Half of all mental health counselors earned less than $39,190 a year.
To be a licensed clinical professional counselor, an individual generally must have at least a master’s degree in counseling, family therapy, or a related field. They also must be certified by the National Board for Certified Counselors Inc. and Affiliates; some other master's-level licenses may be accepted as well.