The tank had an interesting role in World War One. The tank was first used at the little known Battle of Flers. It was then used with less success at the Battle of the Somme. Though the tank was highly unreliable – as one would expect from a new machine – it did a great deal to end the horrors of trench warfare and brought back some mobility to the Western Front. 
Built and raced a car for 2 years on the drag racing circuit. == The world's first tank was built by William Foster & Company of Lincoln, Lincolnshire, England. == === It was designed in July 1915 and on August 11, 1915 construction began. The tank, Number 1 Lincoln Machine, or Little Willie as it was fondly called, made it's first run on September 06, 1915 and shortly thereafter saw combat action. 
The first tanks were added, as a Heavy Branch, to the Machine Gun Corps until a separate Tank Corps was formed on 28 July 1917 by Royal Warrant. A small number of Mark I tanks took part in the Battle of the Somme during the Battle of Flers-Courcelette in September 1916. The Mark I was the world's first tank to enter combat. Born of the need to break the domination of trenches, barbed wire and machine guns over the battlefields of the Western Front, it was the first vehicle to be named tank, a name chosen as an expedient to maintain secrecy and to disguise its true purpose.
The history of the tank began in World War I, when armoured all-terrain fighting vehicles were first deployed as a response to the problems of trench warfare, ushering in a new era of mechanized warfare. This was the internal combustion engine, which had made possible the development of the tank and eventually would lead to the mechanised forces that were to assume the old roles of horse cavalry and to loosen the grip of the machine-gun on the battlefield.
Five months after its combat demonstration to the British, in June 1916 the first production line tanks were ready, albeit too late for use at the start of that year's 'big push' - the Battle of the Somme, which began on 1 July 1916. The first combat tank was ready by January 1916 and was demonstrated to a high-powered audience. Convinced, Lloyd George-the Minister of Munitions-ordered production of the heavy Mark I model to begin (the lighter renowned 'Whippets' entered service the following year).
Early War. In World War 1 tanks first appeared at the Battle of Flers-Courcelette in September 1916. It was the first time tanks had ever been used in a military conflict. The British sent 49 tanks into the battle. WW1 tanks were very slow and couldn’t exceed 4 miles an hou
The Mark V was first used in the Battle of Hamel on 4 July 1918 when 60 tanks contributed to a successful assault on the German lines by Australian units. It took part in eight further major engagements during the War. The Mark I was the world's first tank to enter combat. Born of the need to break the domination of trenches, barbed wire and machine guns over the battlefields of the Western Front, it was the first vehicle to be named tank, a name chosen as an expedient to maintain secrecy and to disguise its true purpose.
France began development in late 1915, eventually creating the Renault FT light tank. This was the first to use a fully rotating turret that contained the tank’s main armament-the basis of tank design ever since. Over 3,000 of these machines were made by late 1918. By contrast, Germany lagged behind. 
With the exception of the few interim Mark II and Mark III tanks, it was followed by the largely similar Mark IV, which first saw combat in June 1917. The Mark IV was used en masse (about 460 tanks) at the Battle of Cambrai in November 1917. The Mark V, with its much improved transmission, entered service in mid-1918. The Mark I was the world's first tank to enter combat. Born of the need to break the domination of trenches, barbed wire and machine guns over the battlefields of the Western Front, it was the first vehicle to be named tank, a name chosen as an expedient to maintain secrecy and to disguise its true purpose.
The first M1 Abrams battle tanks were delivered to the US Army in 1980. 3,273 M1 tanks were produced for the US Army. 4,796 M1A1 tanks … were built for the US Army, 221 for the US Marines and 880 co-produced with Egypt. found this useful. 