Glomus Tumors. Glomus tumors (also known as paragangliomas or chemodectomas) are rare, benign tumors that can develop in several locations in the body including areas in and around the ear. There are two types of glomus tumors related to the ear: glomus tympanicum and glomus jugulare tumors. Glomus tumors grow from small collections of nerve-derived cells (glomus cells, also known as glomus bodies). These special cells are found in the walls of certain blood vessels and along nerves.
Glomus tumor was also the name formerly (and incorrectly) used for a tumor now called a paraganglioma. A glomus tumor (also known as a solitary glomus tumor, solid glomus tumor, or glomangioma) is a rare benign neoplasm arising from the glomus body and mainly found under the nail, on the fingertip or in the foot. They account for less than 2% of all soft tissue tumors. 
Glomus tumors are typically slow growing tumors that grow along paths of low resistance. As such, glomus tumors may grow inside nerve canals, along blood vessels, and inside the eustachian tube (the tube that connects the ear to the back of the nose). These tumors also have a very rich blood supply. Glomus tumors grow from small collections of nerve-derived cells (glomus cells, also known as glomus bodies). These special cells are found in the walls of certain blood vessels and along nerves.
Glomus tumors are a group of tumors that develop in glomus cells and tissues. Glomus cells are specialized cells that are found in some blood vessels, as well as along nerves. They act to detect changes in the bloodstream, such as the presence of a certain chemical or a change in temperature. Glomus tumors can form anywhere there are glomus cells. The jugular foramen region of the temporal bone in the skull contains many nerve bundles with glomus cells. Tumors that arise in this area are called glomus jugulare tumors. They form at the top of the jugular vein.
Glomus tumors — also known as paragangliomas — of the head and neck are benign (noncancerous) but locally invasive tumors that arise from glomus cells. In the head and neck, glomus tumor tissue is found in the jugular bulb, middle ear, and carotid artery. Of these sites, tumors are most common in the jugular bulb, which is a region of the jugular vein positioned immediately below the middle ear. These glomus tumors may grow into the middle ear and brain. Tumors originating in glomus cells of the middle ear are called glomus tympanicum tumors. Glomus tympanicum tumors are the most common tumors of the middle ear. Glomus tumors may also arise in deep neck (parapharyngeal) space along the course of the vagus nerve. These are called glomus vagale tumors
Glomus Tumors (Tympanicum Jugulare). Glomus tumors are the most common benign tumors of the middle ear. They arise from glomus bodies. Glomus bodies are tiny, normal structures in the middle ear which serve as baro receptors. These baro receptors sense and help to regulate the oxygen pressure in the middle ear and mastoid. As glomus tumors expand, they begin to fill the middle ear. Some glomus tumors of the middle ear start by growing from the floor of the ear upward. These are the tumors difficult to distinguish from glomus jugulare tumors. A CT scan or other radiologic findings are needed in these cases.
A glomus jugulare tumor is a tumor in the skull. The area of the skull affected by this type of tumor is called the jugular foramen on the temporal bone. These tumors are nearly always benign (noncancerous), but their presence alone can cause hearing loss, problems with swallowing, and facial paralysis. Glomus tumors can form anywhere there are glomus cells. The jugular foramen region of the temporal bone in the skull contains many nerve bundles with glomus cells. Tumors that arise in this area are called glomus jugulare tumors. They form at the top of the jugular vein.
Introduction and Definition: Glomus tumor is a rare and benign vascular tumor. The normal glomus unit is a neuromyoarterial apparatus that functions to regulate skin circulation and is found subungually, on the finger tip pulp, on the base of the foot and the rest of body in descending order. 
Glomus jugulare tumors are rare, slow-growing, hypervascular tumors that arise within the jugular foramen of the temporal bone. They are included in a group of tumors referred to as paragangliomas, which occur at various sites and include carotid body, glomus vagale, and glomus tympanicum tumors. Although rare, glomus tumors are the most common tumor of the middle ear and are second to vestibular schwannoma as the most common tumor of the temporal bone. The female-to-male ratio is 3-6:1.