The vagus nerve is one of 12 cranial nerves. It is the longest of the cranial nerves, extending from the brainstem to the abdomen by way of multiple organs including the heart, esophagus, and lungs. This is an overreaction of the body to certain stimuli, like the sight of blood, which involves the stimulation of the vagus nerve. This stimulation causes a drop in blood pressure and heart rate. Less blood flows to brain, resulting in loss of consciousness.
Also known as cranial nerve X, the vagus forms part of the involuntary nervous system and commands unconscious body procedures, such as keeping the heart rate constant and controlling food digestion. This is an overreaction of the body to certain stimuli, like the sight of blood, which involves the stimulation of the vagus nerve. This stimulation causes a drop in blood pressure and heart rate. Less blood flows to brain, resulting in loss of consciousness.
It is known to be one of the longest of all the cranial nerves. The name Vagus Nerve, has originated from the Latin word, which means ‘wandering’. It gets this name because the nerve wanders from the brain stem via various organs in the neck, thorax and abdomen. The vagus nerve is two nerves that go through the brain stem and enter different parts of the body such as the heart and the stomach. Vagus nerve leaves the brain stem from the rootlets present in the medulla that has been found to be caudal to the rootlets in the ninth carnial nerve. The vagus nerve connects our brainstem to the body, due to which the brain receives, controls and monitor several body functions automatically. The vagus nerve forms a sort of electrical circuit while linking our heart, lungs, and gut to the brain-base.
The vagus nerve is used to regulate the heartbeat and the muscle movement necessary to keep you breathing. This nerve also regulates the chemical levels in the digestive system so that the intestines can process food and keep track of what types of nutrients are being gained from the food that is taken in. 
Gross Anatomy. The vagus nerve is the longest cranial nerve. It contains motor and sensory fibers and, because it passes through the neck and thorax to the abdomen, has the widest distribution in the body. It contains somatic and visceral afferent fibers, as well as general and special visceral efferent fibers. (See Table 1, below.).
Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve, called vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), is sometimes used to treat people with epilepsy or depression. The vagus nerve is involved in one of the most common causes of fainting, called vasovagal syncope. This is an overreaction of the body to certain stimuli, like the sight of blood, which involves the stimulation of the vagus nerve. This stimulation causes a drop in blood pressure and heart rate. Less blood flows to brain, resulting in loss of consciousness.
Specifically, the function of the vagus nerve is to relay signals between the brain and various body systems to regulate heart rate, speech, sweating, blood pressure, digestion, glucose production, and certain aspects of breathing. A diagram showing the vagus nerve. The vagus nerve relays signals between the brain and various body systems to regulate blood pressure. The vagus nerve is involved in triggering the sweat glands to help regulate body temperature.
The vagus nerve runs throughout the body and is responsible for the function and regulation of several bodily systems such as the heart and digestive tracts. The vagus nerve is one of the largest nerve systems in the body. The name vagus is Latin for wandering, which describes the long and complicated path this nerve takes through the body and all of the different systems it comes in contact with.
The vagus nerve has the most extensive distribution of all the cranial nerves. It's actually two nerves, which both run from the brain stem and branch out through the neck and down each side of the body, across the abdomen and to the main organs. 
Introduction to the Vagus Nerve. The vagus nerve is the paired tenth cranial nerve that branches out from the brain and supplies parts of the gastrointestinal system such as the stomach, and parts of the respiratory system such as the lungs. To supply vital organs, it has further to travel than the other cranial nerves. 