When it comes to birds, preening serves a few difference purposes. Preening aligns their feathers to provide insulation and protection from weather. It's also a way for them to get rid of lice, and it makes them more attractive to potential mates. Every feather has tiny interlocking hooks called barbs, and preening makes all of the tiny barbs line up like a … zipper. Preening makes a bird look and feel its best. While preening, birds will also pluck dead feathers and pick the sheaths off of new growing feathers.
A bird will typically transfer preen oil to its body during preening by rubbing its beak and head against the gland opening and then rubbing the accumulated oil on the feathers of the body and wings, and on the skin of the feet and legs. It is located dorsally at the base of the tail (between the fourth caudal vertebrae and the pygostyle) and is greatly variable in both shape and size. In some species, the opening of the gland has a small tuft of feathers to provide a wick for the preen oil (see below).
When a bird is preening, she uses her beak to pick through her feathers -- removing any debris, arranging feathers that are out of place, and distributing a special oil that is secreted from a gland at the base of the tail. This oil helps a bird's feathers stay healthy and shiny. 
Definition: Preening is the process by which birds groom and care for their feathers. When a bird is preening, she uses her beak to pick through her feathers -- removing any d … ebris, arranging feathers that are out of place, and distributing a special oil that is secreted from a gland at the base of the tail. This oil helps a bird's feathers stay healthy and shiny. Preening refers to a bird grooming its feathers with its beak. Every feather has tiny interlocking hooks called barbs, and preening makes all of the tiny barbs line up like a … zipper. Preening makes a bird look and feel its best.
During preening, a bird transfers this oil to its feathers by rubbing its head and beak against the oil gland and then spreading the oil over the feathers on the rest of the body. The uropygial gland is not normally visible unless the feathers are parted in this area or there is a problem with the gland. During preening, a bird transfers this oil to its feathers by rubbing its head and beak against the oil gland and then spreading the oil over the feathers on the rest of the body..
The uropygial gland, informally known as the preen gland or the oil gland, is a bilobate sebaceous gland possessed by the majority of birds. It is located dorsally at the base of the tail (between the fourth caudal vertebrae and the pygostyle) and is greatly variable in both shape and size. In some species, the opening of the gland has a small tuft of feathers to provide a wick for the preen oil (see below).
Among our pet birds, the uropygial gland (preening gland or oil gland) is found on budgies, parrots (except Amazon parrots), canaries, most finches, cockatoos and waterfowl. It is absent in doves, pigeons, Amazon parrots and Hyacinth macaws. During preening, a bird transfers this oil to its feathers by rubbing its head and beak against the oil gland and then spreading the oil over the feathers on the rest of the body..
Most birds will preen several times a day to keep themselves healthy. The uropygial gland, or preen gland, is an essential part of preening. This gland is found near the base of the tail and produces an oily substance that contains diester waxes that help waterproof feathers and keep them flexible. While preening, birds will spread this oil to each feather. Some types of birds, including owls, pigeons, parrots and hawks, lack a uropygial gland and instead have specialized feathers that disintegrate into powder down, which serves the same purpose as preen oil. Why Preening Is Essential. Preening serves several essential purposes for birds, including: 1  Aligning feathers for optimum waterproofing and insulation. 2  Aligning feathers into the most aerodynamic shape for easier, more efficient flight. 3  Removing feather parasites and body lice that can destroy feathers or carry disease.
Birds. Birds have an uropygial gland, also called a preening gland, which produces an oily substance that they spread on their feathers with their beaks. The oil protects their skin and feathers from bacteria, fungi and pests. Preening behavior is also linked to mating rituals. While technically preening is a bird-specific activity, the word preen is also used to describe social grooming. Many species -- birds, primates, lions and horses -- groom themselves and members of their social groups.