The Wedge-tailed Eagle, Aquila audax, is the biggest bird of prey native to Australia, and is one of the biggest Eagles in the world. In fact is one of the three types of Eagle I have heard being described at The biggest Eagle in the world. The Wedge-tailed Eagle is one of twelve species of large predominantly dark-coloured eagles in the genus Aquila found worldwide. A large brown bird of prey, it has a wingspan of up to 2.27 metres and a length up to 1.04 metres.
With a wingspan of up to 2.5m, the wedge-tailed eagle is the largest bird of prey in Australia. It soars and glides majestically in the air currents for up to 90 minutes at a time, reaching altitudes that can go beyond 2,000m. 
Wedge-tailed eagle. The female wedge-tailed eagle weighs between 3 and 5.77 kg (6.6 and 12.7 lb), while the smaller males weigh 2 to 4 kg (4.4 to 8.8 lb). Length varies between 81 and 106 cm (32 and 42 in) and the wingspan typically is between 182 and 232 cm (6 ft 0 in and 7 ft 7 in)
The wedge-tailed eagle (Aquila audax), sometimes known as the eaglehawk, is the largest bird of prey in Australia, and is also found in southern New Guinea. It has long, fairly broad wings, fully feathered legs, and an unmistakable wedge-shaped tail. The female wedge-tailed eagle weighs between 3 and 5.77 kg (6.6 and 12.7 lb), while the smaller males weigh 2 to 4 kg (4.4 to 8.8 lb).
The Wedge-tailed eagle (Aquila Audax), is Australia’s largest bird of prey (wingspan up to 2.3m) and one of the largest eagles in the world. The Wedge-tailed Eagle’s scientific name is derived from the Latin Aquila meaning eagle and Audax meaning bold (Bold Eagle). Eagles are a member of the Accipitridae family, which also includes Osprey, Kites, Goshawks and Harriers. The Wedge-tailed Eagle is one of twelve species of large predominantly dark-coloured eagles in the genus Aquila found worldwide. A large brown bird of prey, it has a wingspan of up to 2.27 metres and a length up to 1.04 metres.
Physical Description. Wedge-tailed eagles are large, dark-colored birds with feathered legs, pale beaks, and a lengthy, wedge-shaped tail. Wedge-tailed eagles are the largest birds of prey in Australia, weighing from 2.5 kg to 5.3 kg. Geographic Range. Wedge-tailed eagles or eaglehawks (Aquila audax) are found in the Australian region, spanning from the southern area of New Guinea through all of continental Australia and Tasmania. New Guinea and Australia are inhabited by the subspecies A. a. audax, while Tasmania is home to the subspecies A. a. fleayi
The Wedge-tailed Eagle, sometimes known as the Eaglehawk in its native range, is the largest bird of prey in Australia, and is also found in southern New Guinea. Behavioural Adaptations: Wedge-tailed eagles mate for life and share a nest with their mate and share duties like caring for their two eggs. 
Top facts. 1  The wedge-tailed eagle is the largest bird of prey in Australia, and one of the largest birds of prey in the world. 2  The wedge-tailed eagle is named for its long, diamond-shaped tail. 3  Wedge-tailed eagles sometimes hunt cooperatively, and are able to take prey several times their own weight. 1 The wedge-tailed eagle is the largest bird of prey in Australia, and one of the largest birds of prey in the world.