The answer is 2. We assume you are converting between tablespoon [US] and ounce [US, liquid] . You can view more details on each measurement unit: tablespoon [US] or ounces. The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 67628.0451178 tablespoon [US], or 33814.0225589 ounces. 
To find out how many ounces in tablespoons, multiply by the right factor, or use the converter below if converting between US tbsp and fluid oz. 1 Tablespoon [US] = 0.5 Ounces [Fluid, US]. Tablespoon is a commonly used volume unit in cooking recipes. There is no standard size for tablespoon. 1 US tbsp is about 15 milliliters and 0.5 fluid ounces, whereas in australia, it is about 20 ml. The abbreviations are tbsp, tbs. Fluid ounce is an imperial and US customary volume measurement unit. The abbreviation is fl oz.
Fluid ounces to tablespoons (oz to tbsp) volume units conversion factors are listed below. To find out how many tablespoons in ounces, multiply by the right factor or use the converter below if converting between US fluid oz and tbsp. 1 Ounce [Fluid, US] = 2 Tablespoons [or 3 Dessert spoons] [US]. Fluid ounce is an imperial and US customary volume unit. The abbreviation is fl oz. Tablespoon is a commonly used volume unit in cooking recipes. There are different types of tablespoons used as measurement unit and they are different in sizes. 1 US tablespoon is about 15 milliliters and 0.5 fluid ounces, whereas in australia, 1 tablespoons is about 20 ml. The abbreviations are tbsp, tbs. 
1 tablespoon = 0.5 fluid ounce. NOTE: that is for FLUID ounces, not dry ounces. Dry ounces are a measure of weight, but fluid ounces is a measure of volume. Converting between weight and volume depends on the density of the substance. Look at the question linked to the left How many grams are in a tablespoon? if you want to know how many dry ounces are in one tablespoon of various foods.
10.59 tbsp. A tablespoon is equivalent to 0.5 liquid ounces so there are 2 tablespoons in 1 ounce. There are two different ounces, ounces of weight/mass and ounces of volume (… fluid). Dry ounces are a measure of weight, but fluid ounces is a measure of volume. Converting between weight and volume depends on the density of the substance. Look at the question linked to the left How many grams are in a tablespoon? if you want to know how many dry ounces are in one tablespoon of various foods.
How many tablespoons of butter are in 1 ounce? The answer is: The change of 1 oz (ounce) unit in a butter measure equals = into 2.00 tbsp (tablespoon) as per the equivalent measure and for the same butter type. 
An ounce of volume is called a fluid ounce.. A tablespoon measures volume not weight. In order to convert tablespoons or teaspoons to ounces or back, You need to know what is being measured. A spoon of lettuce will weigh different than a spoon of gold in solid ounces. Dry ounces are a measure of weight, but fluid ounces is a measure of volume. Converting between weight and volume depends on the density of the substance. Look at the question linked to the left How many grams are in a tablespoon? if you want to know how many dry ounces are in one tablespoon of various foods.
We assume you are converting between tablespoon [metric] and ounce [UK, liquid] . You can view more details on each measurement unit: tablespoon or ounces. The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 66666.6666667 tablespoon, or 35195.0797279 ounces. 
In these regions, one tablespoon is approximately 15 mL, which is about 1⁄2 US fl oz. In some places like the US, the tablespoon was historically defined as 1⁄2 US fl oz (2 tbsp. = 1 US fl oz). In Australia a tablespoon is defined as four teaspoons (20 mL). Victorian and Edwardian tablespoons used in the UK are often 25 mL or sometimes larger. They are used only for preparing and serving food, not as part of a place-setting. A tablespoon is a large spoon used for eating or serving. In most English-speaking countries, it is a large spoon used for serving, while in parts of Canada it is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl. By extension, the term is used as a measure of volume in cooking.
An ounce is a unit of weight and a tablespoon is a unit of volume. How many ounces the ingredient in the tablespoon weighs will depend on what the ingredient in the tablespoon is. Unless you meant fluid ounces. In that case, 1 tablespoon = 1/2 fluid ounce. There are two types of ounces: fluid ounces and ounces. 