Gansu; Gansu province; Kansu (a province in north-central China; formerly part of the Silk Road to Turkistan and India and Persia). Guangdong; Guangdong province; Kwangtung (a province in southern China). Yucatan (a state of Mexico on the northern part of the Yucatan Peninsula). 1. the territory occupied by one of the constituent administrative districts of a nation. 2. the proper sphere or extent of your activities. Familiarity information: PROVINCE used as a noun is rare.
A province is almost always an administrative division, within a country or state. The term derives from the ancient Roman provincia, which was the major territorial and administrative unit of the Roman Empire 's territorial possessions outside of Italy. The term is now used in many countries. The constituent entities of Canada are known as provinces. At the time of confederation, only the United Province of Canada and Nova Scotia were called a province, although the provinces of Lower Canada and Upper Canada had previously existed.
• PROVINCE (noun). The noun PROVINCE has 2 senses: 1. the territory occupied by one of the constituent administrative districts of a nation. 2. the proper sphere or extent of your activities. Familiarity information: PROVINCE used as a noun is rare.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: State in the United States refers to one of the 50 states with examples such as Texas, California, Florida, and others. Provinces for America refers to Canadian territories such as Quebec, and Newfoundland. It is subdivided also, but these are not called states. Instead, these are called provinces. On many standard forms, there is only one heading where a person fills out this type of information. You put either the name of the American state that you live in, or the Canadian province.
a country or region, more or less remote from the city of Rome, brought under the Roman government; a conquered country beyond the limits of Italy. Province (noun). a country or region dependent on a distant authority; a portion of an empire or state, esp. one remote from the capital. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: province (Noun). A subdivision of government usually one step below the national level. province (Noun). A territorial area within a country. province (Noun). A jurisdiction; a (literal or figurative) area of authority.
· just now. Report Abuse. The UK does not use the terms province or state to refer to its own political divisions. The UK is divided into sections (England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland), and then into counties (for example, Devonshire or Yorkshire). The web designer was thinking of countries like the U.S., Mexico, or Australia, which have states, and Canada or China, which have province
Answers. Best Answer: State means government. A sovereign polity. A province is a subdivision of a government. A province is usually one step below the national level. Various types of provinces are: states, counties, communes, departments and cantons. It is important to mention that the word State has several meanings. It could be a member state such as France in the United Nations or a sovereign state such as Norway or a nation state such as the United Kingdom. This is several examples of different types of states.
In the United States of America and in Australia they are called states. In Canada and South Africa they are called provinces. In Switzerland they are called cantons, in France departments, and in England they are called counties although many counties are further divided into regions. 
Province (noun). a region under the supervision or direction of any special person; the district or division of a country, especially an ecclesiastical division, over which one has jurisdiction; as, the province of Canterbury, or that in which the archbishop of Canterbury exercises ecclesiastical authority. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: province (Noun). A subdivision of government usually one step below the national level. province (Noun). A territorial area within a country. province (Noun). A jurisdiction; a (literal or figurative) area of