MCM is a popular hashtag used on Instagram. The acronyms is also used on Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr. Users use #MCM when they post photos of men whom they find attractive. MCM stands for both ‘Man Crush Monday’ and ‘Man Candy Monday’ and is usually uses in a fun, light-hearted way. This is very similar to WCW, or Woman Crush Wednesday, where users upload photos of women whom they find attractive. #MCM = Man Crush Monday or Man Candy Monday
1 MCM (TV channel) , a French music channel. 2  MCM (A Premier Farnell Company) , a consumer electronics parts and accessories distributor in Ohio. 3  Modern Creation Munich, a brand of leather goods founded in 1976 in Munich. 
This used to mean something. It was a logo on a purse from the &#39;80&#39;s. Source(s): mcm means: https://shortly.im/wikNu. Dennie · 2 months ago. 
In 2005, the worldwide rights to the MCM brand were acquired by Sungjoo Group, a South Korean retail business founded by Sung-Joo Kim. Kim re-launched the brand in 2006 with a new store in Berlin and appointed German designer Michael Michalsky as MCM’s creative director. The MCM label, originally stood for Michael Cromer Muenchen, münchen was founded By Michael cromer in 1976 In, Munich. Germany the company designed expensive leather suitcases and handbags which became popular during the 1980s for being ostentatious and.. flashy
MCM or Modern Creation Muenchen münchen is A german brand of leather products founded in 1976 In, Munich. Germany the'brand S mcm logo, pattern Called Cognac, visetos appears on many of its. PRODUCTS mcm sells its products through wholesale, accounts franchises and-directly operated. stores The MCM label, originally stood for Michael Cromer Muenchen, münchen was founded By Michael cromer in 1976 In, Munich. Germany the company designed expensive leather suitcases and handbags which became popular during the 1980s for being ostentatious and.. flashy
MCM or Modern Creation Muenchen münchen is A german brand of leather products founded in 1976 In, Munich. Germany the'brand S mcm logo, pattern Called Cognac, visetos appears on many of its. products The MCM label, originally stood for Michael Cromer Muenchen, münchen was founded By Michael cromer in 1976 In, Munich. Germany the company designed expensive leather suitcases and handbags which became popular during the 1980s for being ostentatious and.. flashy
MCM Spotted in NYC. This group photo is a bit of an ode to our Cognac Visetos range. I love seeing men carrying bags as they can get away with wearing quite substantially sized bags without looking like they are going on holiday. The mix of preppy and urban in the group fills me with joy! MCM DeadHeart By: NiceInHarlem NiceInHarlem has been an avid collector of the German Luxury Brand MCM and has teamed up with DeadHeartNYC to give you small piece of nostalgia. Each Piece is hand made and cut from original vintage MCM pieces dated from 1979- late 90′s.
MCM (which stands for Mode Creation Munich) is originally a German-based leather goods company that was founded in 1976 and was met with considerable popularity for its flashy looks in the 1980s. Sadly by the mid 1990’s the label was pretty much dead since it clashed with the simple subtle style during that time. Celeb Style Spotting – MCM Backpacks. November 13th, 2012 | Author: Elle. MCM is a major brand of leather goods here in Seoul, it is hard to go a few minutes without seeing someone walk by with something on sporting the logo pattern all over it.
MCM or Modern Creation Muenchen münchen is A german brand of leather products founded in 1976 In, Munich. germany The MCM label, originally stood for Michael Cromer Muenchen, münchen was founded By Michael cromer in 1976 In, Munich. Germany the company designed expensive leather suitcases and handbags which became popular during the 1980s for being ostentatious and.. flashy