Inflammation, or swelling caused by an increase in fluid in the infected area, is a sign that white blood cells are on the attack and releasing substances involved in the immune response. Vaccination works to stimulate a specific immune response that will create memory B and T cells specific to a certain pathogen. Two types of white blood cells called lymphocytes are vital to the specific immune response. Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow, and mature into one of several subtypes. The two most common are T cells and B cells. An antigen is a foreign material that triggers a response from T
An antibody is a protein used by the immune system to identify and neutralise foreign objects like bacteria and viruses. Each antibody recognises a specific antigen unique to its target. Production of antibodies is referred to as the humoral immune system. The immune system could be described as a sensory organ much like vision, hearing and touch. Instead of recognising light, sound waves or large objects, the immune system recognises molecular shapes-only a few amino acids in length.
Another way to produce active immunity is by vaccination. Vaccines interact with the immune system and often produce an immune response similar to that produced by the natural infection, but do not subject the recipient to the disease and its potential complications. The immune system could be described as a sensory organ much like vision, hearing and touch. Instead of recognising light, sound waves or large objects, the immune system recognises molecular shapes-only a few amino acids in length.
Antigens are usually proteins or polysaccharides (long chains of sugar molecules that make up the cell wall of certain bacteria), but can be any type of molecule, including small molecules (haptens) coupled to a protein (carrier). Antigens induce immunity. The immune system develops a defence against foreign antigens. The immune system could be described as a sensory organ much like vision, hearing and touch. Instead of recognising light, sound waves or large objects, the immune system recognises molecular shapes-only a few amino acids in length.
Antigen vaccines. Antigen vaccines use specific proteins or parts of proteins (antigens) from the surface of cancer cells to stimulate the immune system to fight these cells. Cancer cell antigens are sometimes mixed with substances to help the vaccine work better. These substances are called adjuvants. A vaccine stimulates the immune system to produce antibodies to fight a disease. Most vaccines are used to prevent infectious diseases caused by viruses, such as the flu, measles or polio. Cancer vaccines are used to: 1  prevent a cancer from developing (prophylactic, or preventive, vaccine).
Due to these antigens the white blood cells release antibodies against these antigens to kill them. Antibodies are also special type of proteins. In this way antibodies and white blood cells together regulate the immune system of the body of an animal. Such an example is our appendix. It contains white blood cells. It is located near our large intestine. When your immune system is alerted to the presence of these viruses, it provides an immune response that produces antibodies to prevent that type of virus from being able to make you sick in the future. See the related questions for more details about the ingredients in flu vaccines and other related information.
The immune system is a complex system of interacting cells whose primary purpose is to identify foreign (“non-self”) substances referred to as antigens. The immune system provides protection from infectious disease by identify most of these microbes as foreign. The immune system could be described as a sensory organ much like vision, hearing and touch. Instead of recognising light, sound waves or large objects, the immune system recognises molecular shapes-only a few amino acids in length.
How Vaccines Work Vaccines help develop immunity by imitating an infection. This type of infection, however, does not cause illness, but it does cause the immune system to produce T-lymphocytes and antibodies. Sometimes, after getting a vaccine, the imitation infection can cause minor symptoms, such as fever. Such minor symptoms are normal and should be expected as the body builds immunity. 
Stimulating the immune system to attack unwanted substances is not a new concept; vaccines, which have traditionally been used to prevent infectious diseases such as measles and the flu, work in this way. Once injected, the vaccine stimulates immune cells to recognize and fight cancer cells that may be in the body. Among patients with advanced lymphoma who had achieved and maintained a complete remission after chemotherapy, use of BiovaxID significantly delayed cancer progression.