Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: ranch (Noun). A large plot of land used for raising cattle, sheep or other livestock. ranch (Noun). A small farm that cultivates vegetables and/or livestock. ranch (Noun). A house or property on a ranch land. ranch (Noun). A type of salad dressing. ranch (Verb). A ranch is an area of landscape, including various structures, given primarily to the practice of ranching, the practice of raising grazing livestock such as cattle or sheep for meat or wool.
Full Definition of RANCH. 1. : a large farm for raising horses, beef cattle, or sheep. 2. : a farm or area devoted to a particular specialty. 3. : ranch house. See ranch defined for English-language learners. See ranch defined for kids. Full Definition of RANCH. intransitive verb. : to live or work on a ranch. transitive verb. 1. : to work as a rancher on. 2. : to raise on a ranch. See ranch defined for English-language learners.
Ranch (also American ranch, California ranch, rambler or rancher) is a domestic architectural style originating in the United States. The ranch house is noted for its long, close-to-the-ground profile, and minimal use of exterior and interior decoration. The raised ranch is a two story house, i.e. the foundation serves as an additional floor, often called a split level, a modification of the dominant one story design. The common result is a two-story version of a ranch-style house.
: a large farm especially in the U.S. where animals (such as cattle, horses, and sheep) are raised. : a farm for a special crop or kind of animal. Full Definition of RANCH. intransitive verb. : to live or work on a ranch. transitive verb. 1. : to work as a rancher on. 2. : to raise on a ranch. See ranch defined for English-language learners.
• CATTLE RANCH (noun). The noun CATTLE RANCH has 1 sense: 1. farm consisting of a large tract of land along with facilities needed to raise livestock (especially cattle). Familiarity information: CATTLE RANCH used as a noun is very rare.
ranch. n. 1. (Agriculture) a large tract of land, esp one in North America, together with the necessary personnel, buildings, and equipment, for rearing livestock, esp cattle. 2. (Agriculture). a. any large farm for the rearing of a particular kind of livestock or crop: a mink ranch. ranch. n. 1. An extensive farm, especially in the western United States, on which large herds of cattle, sheep, or horses are raised. 2. A large farm on which a particular crop or kind of animal is raised
Ranch. A ranch is an area of landscape, including various structures, given primarily to the practice of ranching, the practice of raising grazing livestock such as cattle or sheep for meat or wool.
A ranch is a type of farm and an area of landscape, including various structures, given primarily to the practice of ranching, the practice of raising grazing livestock such as cattle or sheep for meat or wool. However, the concept of a ranch is not seen to any significant degree in the rest of western Europe, where there is far less land area and sufficient rainfall allows the raising of cattle on much smaller farms.