From 16 June 2014, the daily Congestion Charge will go up from £10 to £11.50 (or £10.50 if paid using CC Auto Pay or £14 if paid the next charging day). A network of cameras reads vehicle numberplates as you enter, drive around and leave the zone. The daily charge is £10 if you pay in advance or on the day, but increases to £12 if payment is made by midnight on the following charging day. You can reduce the daily charge to £9 by registering with Congestion Charging Auto Pay-up to five vehicles can be registered. Fleets with six or more vehicles can save by applying for Congestion Charging Fleet Auto Pay
Ken Livingstone yesterday announced the most wide-ranging shake-up of the London congestion charge in its controversial history. The capital's Mayor is proposing that the daily fee, which next week marks its fifth anniversary, would more than triple to £25 for gas-guzzling vehicles. * Business leaders say that the congestion charge has adversely affected the takings of retailers. * The capital's streets have not been transformed – despite the reduction in traffic jams.
The London congestion charge is a fee charged on most motor vehicles operating within the Congestion Charge Zone (CCZ) in Central London between 07:00 and 18:00 Mondays to Fridays. It is not charged on weekends, public holidays or between Christmas Day and New Year's Day (inclusive). The original zone is showing a 4% increase in congestion following expansion of the congestion charge and the introduction of extended to discounts to residents of the new zone and buffer zone. TfL assessed the increase in charges in 2005 to have had only a slight impact overall.
Congestion Charge. The Congestion Charge is an £11.50 daily charge for driving a vehicle within the charging zone between 07:00 and 18:00, Monday to Friday. The easiest way to pay the charge is by registering for Congestion Charge Auto Pay. There are a range of exemptions and discounts available to certain vehicles and individuals. 
If you don't pay the Congestion Charge within the time limit (before midnight the following charging day) you will receive a penalty charge notice of £130, reduced to £65 if paid within 14 days. The daily charge is £10 if you pay in advance or on the day, but increases to £12 if payment is made by midnight on the following charging day. You can reduce the daily charge to £9 by registering with Congestion Charging Auto Pay-up to five vehicles can be registered. Fleets with six or more vehicles can save by applying for Congestion Charging Fleet Auto Pay
Congestion charging was first introduced into central London in February 2003. It is a daily charge of £8 for driving or parking a vehicle on public roads within the congestion zone between 0700 and 1800 on Monday to Fridays, excluding public holidays and weekends. The original central London congestion charging zone covered 22 square kilometres in the heart of London, with a western boundary from Vauxhall, through Victoria, Marble Arch to the Edgware Road.
The charge is being introduced by Transport for London, (TfL) a part of the Greater London Assembly and headed by Mr Livingstone. The TfL has forecast the plan will lead to a 10 per cent-15 per cent drop in traffic, less congestion and increased traffic speeds. Commuters in central London are preparing for a bloody day as the controversial congestion charge gets under way. But what is the congestion charge? It is a daily £5 charge to be paid for driving in a designated part of central London, marked by signs displaying a white 'C' encircled in red.
If your journey takes you into the charging zone you can either pay in advance, pay before midnight that day, or, for a small surcharge, pay before midnight the following charging day. The daily charge is £10 if you pay in advance or on the day, but increases to £12 if payment is made by midnight on the following charging day. You can reduce the daily charge to £9 by registering with Congestion Charging Auto Pay-up to five vehicles can be registered. Fleets with six or more vehicles can save by applying for Congestion Charging Fleet Auto P
Image caption The congestion charge has generated a net revenue of over £1bn since 2003. The biggest congestion charge scheme to launch in any city got off to a smooth start on the morning of 17 February 2003, much to the surprise of London's then mayor Ken Livingstone. A decade on he readily admits it was the only thing in his entire political career that turned out better than I expected. Getting deliveries on time is really important and the congestion charge means we have a consistency of traffic flow and a reliability that we know where the traffic's going to be, and that's important. It means we can get there on time and that's worth £10 every day..