It is also blessedly easy to make, requiring nothing more than tigernuts and water, though the addition of spices and a natural sweetener like jaggery or honey elevates the humble tigernut milk into something positively ethereal. They’re rich in minerals like calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium and phosphorus, as well as vitamins C and E. They’re a good source of oleic acid (a monounsaturated fat also found in olive oil, avocado and pork fat), and which is associated with increased HDL (good) cholesterol levels.
Tigernut milk (called Kunnu Aya in Nigeria and Horchata de Chufa in Spain) is naturally sweet, creamy and offers a luxurious, rich and nutty flavor. They’re rich in minerals like calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium and phosphorus, as well as vitamins C and E. They’re a good source of oleic acid (a monounsaturated fat also found in olive oil, avocado and pork fat), and which is associated with increased HDL (good) cholesterol levels.
1 Place the tigernut puree back in the blender and add another 1-2 cups of water. 2  Puree again for a couple minutes. 3  Strain off the milk. 4  You can combine with the first batch, or keep separate. 1 Puree on high until smooth and creamy (2-4 minutes, depending on the blender). 2  Pour through a fine mesh strainer, nut bag, cheese cloth, etc. to separate the milk from the pureed tigernuts. 3  Place the tigernut puree back in the blender and add another 1-2 cups of water. 4
The “Horchata” is a vegetable milk extracted directly from the tigernut. It’s a refreshing drink, superb as substitutive of traditional cow milk with a natural sweet taste. 
Try Tigernut Milk! While I believe raw milk boasts unique health benefits, dairy isn’t tolerated by everyone. Many people reach for nut or seed milks as an alternative to dairy milk. I do not recommend the nut/seed milks available in cartons at the store. These contain a slew of problematic ingredients including: 1  inflammatory carrageenan. 2  synthetic vitamins. Ingredients. 1  1 cup tigernuts, available here. 2  4 cups filtered water (this is the water filter I use to remove chlorine and fluoride). 3  1/2 tsp. vanilla extract, optional. 4  1/4 tsp. cinnamon. 5  1 Tbs. 6  maple syrup, raw honey or other preferred sweetener, optional. 7  Pinch of unrefined salt.
How to make Tiger Nuts Milk [Video]. Tiger nuts have a nutty milky taste. I can't even imagine anything that tastes like it. Not only do they taste nice, the nuts are jampacked with lots of health benefits. To eat it as a snack, just chew and suck on the chaff then spit out the chaff. 
Instead, I recommend making homemade nut or seed milks, so you can control the ingredients. Tigernut milk is a creamy beverage with the sweet, toasty flavor of tigernuts. It’s delicious chilled, but you can also use it in your tea or coffee. I also recommend using it in smoothies to enjoy the flavor. Ingredients. 1  1 cup tigernuts, available here. 2  4 cups filtered water (this is the water filter I use to remove chlorine and fluoride). 3  1/2 tsp. vanilla extract, optional. 4  1/4 tsp. cinnamon. 5  1 Tbs. 6  maple syrup, raw honey or other preferred sweetener, optional. 7  Pinch of unrefined salt.
It is a drink drawn from tigernuts, water and sugar. The tigernut is a small and underground tuber with knot shape which comes from the roots of the juncia avellanada, called like that because of its shape similar to the hazelnut. The tigernut requires a loose and sandy ground for its cultivation and warm temperatures. The town of Alboraya, in Valencia (Spain) is one of the places that gathers the best conditions for its cultivation. A chilled tigernut milk is a typical drink in Spain during the summer season. The tigernut was already used in the Old Egypt and in Sudan. Arabic population began to cultivate it in the half of the Middle Ages. - The tiger nut milk is not just a fresh drink, in comparison with any other soft drink, it is very healthy. - It contributes with level cholesterol reduction.
While I still love coconut milk (and almond and cashew milk on occasion), I was looking for something different. Tigernut milk delivers. The slightly sweet, nutty flavor comes through in the milk and it is delicious mixed with smoothies, coffee, tea, or plain. It is super easy to make and can be flavored in a huge variety of ways. Tigernut milk is sometimes referred to as tigernut horchata. 1 Puree on high until smooth and creamy (2-4 minutes, depending on the blender). 2  Pour through a fine mesh strainer, nut bag, cheese cloth, etc. to separate the milk from the pureed tigernuts. 3  Place the tigernut puree back in the blender and add another 1-2 cups of water. 4  Puree again for a couple minutes.