Watch video to see how the tongue affects breastfeeding. Here is a video of an ultrasound of a breastfeeding infant in real-time demonstrating how important a role the posterior tongue plays. Green is where the normal tongue tie is located causing restricted tongue motion denoted in light green. This most common type of tongue tie can be visually seen, but there is another type of tongue tie which cannot be easily observed. Known as submucus tongue tie or posterior tongue tie, the tongue tie is hidden UNDER the mucus lining of the tongue/mouth.
1 Posterior ties are often misdiagnosed as a short tongue. 2  A baby with a tongue tie may be able to stick out his tongue. 3  Tongue and lip ties, like the webs of skin between your thumbs and index fingers, do not suddenly shrink, stretch, or disappear. 4  Tongue and lip ties can affect a baby's ability to breastfeed. 1 A baby with a tongue tie may be able to stick out his tongue. 2  Tongue and lip ties, like the webs of skin between your thumbs and index fingers, do not suddenly shrink, stretch, or disappear. 3  Tongue and lip ties can affect a baby's ability to breastfeed.
http://www.FauquierENT.net-Video showing how POSTERIOR tongue tie is treated surgically using coblation. Alternatively, a laser or scissors can also be used. In newborns, this procedure can be performed without sedation in the clinic. 
In my experience, every anterior tongue tie has a posterior tongue tie behind it. Reworded, every tongue tie that affects breastfeeding is a posterior tongue tie. Some of those also have an anterior thin membrane, but there is always a posterior component. I like to use a sailboat analogy to help describe tongue tie. Imagine the sail as a class 1 or 2 tongue tie. Most practitioners use a classification where the tongue tie is given a grade of 1, 2, 3, or 4. Classically, class 1 and 2 are thought of as anterior, whereas class 3 and 4 are posterior.
Normally, the tongue is loosely attached to the base of the mouth with a piece of skin called the lingual frenulum. In babies with tongue-tie, this piece of skin is unusually short and tight, restricting the tongue's movement. This prevents the baby feeding properly and also causes problems for the mother. 
10551. Posterior tongue tie is a congenital anomaly of the mouth and tongue, in which the frenulum, that flap of skin that connects your tongue to the bottom of your mouth, is too short and thick and restricts movement of the tip of the tongue. These are extremely common and generally not severe. Babies with posterior tongue tie will have difficult attaining a proper latch on the nipple. Studies have shown that babies with posterior tongue tie will have breastfeeding problems 25% of the time, as compared to only 3% of babies without the condition.
Tongue-tie. Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia) is a condition present at birth that restricts the tongue's range of motion. With tongue-tie, an unusually short, thick or tight band of tissue (lingual frenulum) tethers the bottom of the tongue's tip to the floor of the mouth. 
Appearance. There is a broad range of severity of posterior tongue tie, so it might look completely normal. Severe tongue ties involve even the tip of the tongue and are very easy to see. Less severe tongue ties might be harder to see but can make it hard for the baby to stick out his or her tongue. Babies with posterior tongue tie will have difficult attaining a proper latch on the nipple. Studies have shown that babies with posterior tongue tie will have breastfeeding problems 25% of the time, as compared to only 3% of babies without the condition.
Anterior tongue tie (otherwise known as ankyloglossia) is when the tip of the tongue is anchored to the floor of the mouth. This most common type of tongue tie can be visually seen, but there is another type of tongue tie which cannot be easily observed. Known as submucus tongue tie or posterior tongue tie, the tongue tie is hidden UNDER the mucus lining of the tongue/mouth.