Helena /he-le-na/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Helena's name origins are Old French, Old German and Greek, and the meaning of Helena is other, foreign; sun ray. Helena is an alternate form of Eleanor (Old French, Old German). Helena is also a variant of Helen (Greek). See also Jelena and Lena. Helena is a very popular first name for females (#594 out of 4276, Top 14%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#68360 out of 150436, Top 45%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Helena for girls.
Greek Meaning: The name Helen is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Helen is: Shining light. The bright one. Helen of Troy, whose elopement with Paris sparked the Trojan War, was the daughter of Zeus and wife of Menelaus, King of Sparta. American Meaning: The name Helen is an American baby name. In American
Helena is the Latinate form of Helen used primarily among the Germans, Dutch, Portuguese, Scandinavians and Slavic people. Helen is the English form of the Greek Hēlēnē (‘ελενη) which most likely comes from the Greek “hēlios” meaning “sun” – more specifically, a sunbeam or ray of light. 
American Meaning: The name Helena is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Helena is: Light. Greek Meaning: The name Helena is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Helena is: Shining light. The bright one. English Meaning: The name Helena is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Helena is: In mythology the abduction of Zeus's mortal daughter Helen sparked the Trojan War.
Meanings and history of the name Helena : | Edit. Latinate form of HELEN. Derived from the Greek ‘ελενη (Helene), probably from Greek ‘ελενη (helene) torch or corposant, or possibly related to σεληνη (selene) moon. Cognate of the Greek Helenē, which is derived from the root ēlē (light, torch, bright). The name is borne in Greek legend by the beautiful wife of the king of Sparta. Her abduction by the Trojan prince Paris sparked off the Trojan War. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Look up Helen in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Helen is a feminine given name derived from the Ancient Greek name ἑλένη Helenē (dialectal variant: ἑλένα Helena) whose etymology is unknown; a derivation of the latter from ἑλένη, a variant form of ἑλάνη, i.e.  torch , is considered rather uncertain. 
Helen /he-len/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced HEL-en. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Helen is sun ray. Mythology: the abduction of Zeus's mortal daughter, Helen of Troy, resulted in the Trojan War. Hers was the face that launched a thousand ships. There was a Saint Helena, mother to Constantine the Great, whose purity allowed her to discover the True Cross.
Meaning & History. English form of the Greek ‘ελενη (Helene) , probably from Greek ‘ελενη (helene) torch or corposant, or possibly related to σεληνη (selene) moon. In Greek mythology Helen was the daughter of Zeus and Leda, whose kidnapping by Paris was the cause of the Trojan War. 
Origin of the name Helena: Cognate of the Greek Helenē, which is derived from the root ēlē (light, torch, bright). The name is borne in Greek legend by the beautiful wife of the king of Sparta. Her abduction by the Trojan prince Paris sparked off the Trojan War. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.