Grilled Halloumi. Halloumi is a semi-hard, unripened brined cheese from Cyprus. It’s made from a mixture of goat and sheep milk and tastes like a mixture of fresh Mozzarella and feta. It has a high melting point, which makes it an ideal candidate for grilling or frying. Grilled Halloumi is a delicacy – the browned, crusty exterior, the soft, gooey interior and the intensely savory flavor all combine to make it a wonderful snack or appetizer. You can serve grilled Halloumi on toasted bread slices brushed with olive oil, or as a topping for a tossed salad
Halloumi cheese. Halloumi has become a really popular cheese over the past few years, it's got a really high melting point so it's great for frying or grilling and having in a wrap or pitta bread.
Fat. Regular halloumi cheese has 7.5 g of total fat per 1 oz. serving. This corresponds to 12 percent of the daily value based on a 2,000 calorie diet. It also contains 4.5 g of unhealthy saturated fat. Halloumi cheese usually has about 25 percent milk fat. The reduced-fat version has 40 percent less fat and contains 15 percent milk fat. An ounce of light halloumi cheese provides only 4.5 g of total fat. Cheese is usually high in sodium. An ounce of halloumi cheese has 330 mg of sodium. A high-sodium diet contributes to high blood pressure, and the Institute of Medicine recommends all men and women consume no more than 2,300 milligrams of sodium a day.
Halloumi. Halloumi is a Cypriot firm, brined, slightly springy white cheese, traditionally made from a mixture of goat and sheep milk, although these days cow’s milk is also used. Its texture is similar to that of mozzarella or thick feta, except that it has a strong, salty flavour imbibed from the brine preserve. 
It has a high melting point and so can easily be fried or grilled. Halloumi is set with rennet and is unusual in that no acid or acid-producing bacterium is used in its preparation. Halloumi is popular in the Levant, Greece and Turkey. It has recently become very popular in the United Kingdom. Cypriots like eating halloumi with watermelon in the warm months, and as halloumi and lountza – a combination of halloumi cheese and either a slice of smoked pork, or a soft lamb sausage. The resistance to melting comes from the fresh curd being heated before being shaped and placed in brine.
It has a lower fat content than many cheeses due to the processes used in its production. 5.) Feta cheese: Feta cheese is made from either goat’s milk or sheep milk and is therefore one of the healthier alternatives. 6.) Halloumi: Halloumi is another goat’s or sheep milk cheese that originated in Cyprus. Do check labels as some modern manufacturers make this cheese with cow’s milk therefore regulating it out of the healthiest category
1 Heat the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat. 2  Add the halloumi sticks, and cook until the cheese turns light, golden-brown, 1 to 2 minutes. 3  Sprinkle with lemon juice, oregano, and pepper to serve. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1 
Instructions. 1  Slice the halloumi block into eight (1 oz) slices. 2  Brush the halloumi slices with olive oil on both sides. 3  Heat a nonstick grill pan over medium heat, about 5 minutes. 4  Place the cheese slices in the pan (work in two batches if necessary). Grilled Halloumi is a delicacy – the browned, crusty exterior, the soft, gooey interior and the intensely savory flavor all combine to make it a wonderful snack or appetizer. You can serve grilled Halloumi on toasted bread slices brushed with olive oil, or as a topping for a tossed salad
1 Brush the halloumi slices with olive oil on both sides. 2  Heat a nonstick grill pan over medium heat, about 5 minutes. 3  If you don't own a grill pan, a regular nonstick pan will work, although the fried cheese won't look as pretty without the grill marks. Grilled Halloumi is a delicacy – the browned, crusty exterior, the soft, gooey interior and the intensely savory flavor all combine to make it a wonderful snack or appetizer. You can serve grilled Halloumi on toasted bread slices brushed with olive oil, or as a topping for a tossed salad