1 Hair loss in a condition called alopecia areata. 2  There is some evidence that applying lavender oil in combination with oils from thyme, rosemary, and cedarwood might improve hair growth by as much as 44% after 7 months of treatment. 1 Lice. 2  Early research suggests that applying a combination of lavender and tea tree oil to the skin helps kill lice eggs and reduce the number of live lice. 3  It is unclear if the effects are caused by lavender alone or the combination of lavender and tea tree oil.
Lavender oil has long been used in the production of perfume. It is used in aromatherapy but there is little evidence that it does anything. Oil of spike lavender was used as a solvent in oil painting, mainly before the use of distilled turpentine became common. Lavender oil is an essential oil obtained by distillation from the flower spikes of certain species of lavender.
Lavandula (common name lavender) is a genus of 39 known species of flowering plants in the mint family, Lamiaceae. It is native to the Old World and is found from Cape Verde and the Canary Islands, Europe across to northern and eastern Africa, the Mediterranean, southwest Asia to southeast India. Flowers can be candied and are sometimes used as cake decorations. Lavender flavours baked goods and desserts (it pairs especially well with chocolate), and is also used to make lavender sugar. Lavender flowers are occasionally blended with black, green, or herbal teas.
All About Lavender: Lavender has been known for its gentle and soothing fragrance since ancient times. Used by Greeks and Romans in the public baths, the word lavender is derived from the Latin word lavare, or to wash. As a strewing herb, lavender not only offers a pleasing scent to us, it also repels insects. 
Lavender is by far one of my favorite herbs. Not only is it beautiful, but it has hundreds of uses. It is a fragrant aromatic, a relaxing herb, and it can be used in baking, lotion making, gourmet cooking, tea making, tinctures and much more. Uses for Lavender. I use lavender often in many different forms: 1  As a dried herb to make a relaxing herbal tea (I often add Chamomile too) by steeping in hot (not boiling water) for a few minutes and adding honey. 2  In a tincture to help promote relaxation and sleep.
If you only use one essential oil, this is it! Lavender (lavandula angustifolia) is the most versatile of all essential oils. Most commonly known for its relaxing effects on the body, therapeutic-grade lavender has been highly regarded for the skin. It may be used to cleanse cuts, bruises and skin irritations. As you can see, Lavender is an essential oil that can uplift your life (and mood), heal and entice in a variety of ways. It's a great secret weapon to have on hand at all times! Please leave a comment below with any essential oil questions and tell us what your FAVORITE uses for oils are! Photo Credit: Shutterstock.com.
Some people use lavender for painful conditions including migraine headaches, toothaches, sprains, nerve pain, sores, and joint pain. It is also used for acne and cancer, and to promote menstruation. Lavender is applied to the skin for hair loss (alopecia areata) and pain, and to repel mosquitoes and other insects. 1 Lice. 2  Early research suggests that applying a combination of lavender and tea tree oil to the skin helps kill lice eggs and reduce the number of live lice. 3  It is unclear if the effects are caused by lavender alone or the combination of lavender and tea tree oil.
Lavender is used for restlessness, insomnia, nervousness, and depression. It is also used for a variety of digestive complaints including meteorism (abdominal swelling from gas in the intestinal or peritoneal cavity), loss of appetite, vomiting, nausea, intestinal gas (flatulence), and upset stomach. 1 Lice. 2  Early research suggests that applying a combination of lavender and tea tree oil to the skin helps kill lice eggs and reduce the number of live lice. 3  It is unclear if the effects are caused by lavender alone or the combination of lavender and tea tree oil.
Uses of Lavender Oil. Both lavender and lavender oil are valued for their fragrance and versatility. The flowers are used in potpourris, crafting, and home decor, décor while the essential oil is added to bath and body care, products such as, soaps, perfumes household, cleaners and laundry. detergent Benefits of Lavender Oil. Lavender oil is known for its calming and relaxing properties, and has been used for alleviating insomnia, anxiety, depression, restlessness, dental anxiety, and stress. It has also been proven effective for nearly all kinds of ailments, from pain to infections.