Learn how and when to use a gum stimulator and get expert tips and advice on how to maintain healthy teeth and gums in this free oral hygiene video. Expert: Carol Hirt. Bio: Carol Hirt lives in Houston, Texas, where she studied and graduated from the University of Texas Dental Branch in 2004.
Making use of a gum stimulator is an excellent solution to get rid of the undesirable plaque and to maintain your gums in good health.
Gum stimulator. Use the rubberized tip of the gum stimulator in a circle for ten secs on every single tooth. For plaque elimination, begin with the front-side of the back teeth and perform forwards along the periodontal line. Do the same motion in an identical region, but on the back-side of the teeth.
Point the gum stimulator toward your gums at a 45-degree angle. Run the rubber tip of the gum stimulator in a circle for 10 seconds on each tooth. For plaque removal, start with your front-side of your back teeth and work forward along the gum line. Repeat this action in the same area, but on the back-side of the teeth.
Ad. In order to use a gum stimulator, a person might first want to brush his teeth and use dental floss. He can then grip the device and begin moving the rubber tips around in a circle at the gum line in order to stimulate this tissue.
Learn how and when to use a gum stimulator and get expert tips and advice on how to maintain healthy teeth and gums in this free oral hygiene video. Part of the Video Series: How to Keep Teeth & Gums Healthy.
To be able to make use of a gum stimulator, an individual need to brush his or her teeth and also to use a tooth floss. He need to hold the tool and start moving the rubberized tips around in a circle at the periodontal line to be able to massage this tissue mass.
The GUM® Stimulator has been designed by dental professionals to promote healthy and firm gums by massaging the gingival tissues and stimulating the blood flow. The GUM® Stimulator is a traditional method to maintain your gums in good health.