one of these is the Gavial of India, two are true alligators, six are caimans, and the rest are crocs. The alligators: American Alligator: Found in the Southeastern U.S. from Florida north to coastal North Carolina, and west to eastern Texas. Report Abuse. caimans and alligators are, within the same family Alligatoridae, but in the same order as the crocodile Crocodilia. Caimans differ from alligotors because of the absence of the bony septum between the nostrils, and the ventral armour is composed of overlapping bony scutes.
Caimans tend to be more agile and crocodile-like in their movements, and have longer, sharper teeth than alligators. C. crocodilus, the spectacled caiman, has the widest distribution, from southern Mexico to the northern half of Argentina, and grows to a modest size of about 2.2 m (7 ft). The largest is the near-threatened Melanosuchus niger, the jacare-assu or large or black caiman of the Amazon River basin.
Differences between Crocodiles, Alligators and Caimans. Crocodiles are often mistaken for alligators and caimans. While they are similar there are significant differences among them. Those differences are enough to put them all into different families when it comes to the scientific categorization. The snout is the biggest difference with the crocodile and the alligator. 
Although the caimans have much narrower bodies, they are most closely related to alligators and crocodiles. Caimans are found in a variety of habitats throughout Central and South America from marshes and swamps to mangrove rivers and lakes. The average length for most of the other caiman species if about 2.5 meters long. The caiman is a carnivorous predators and, like the alligator and the crocodile, the caiman has a diet that consists of a great deal of fish.
Caimans inhabit Central and South America. They are relatively small crocodilians, with the smallest being Cuvier's dwarf caiman (Paleosuchus palpebrosus), which grows to 1 m (3 ft) long, and the largest being the black caiman (Melanosuchus niger), which can grow to 4 m (13 ft) or more. 
Alligators and caimans are in the alligator family; crocodiles are in the crocodile family; and the Indian gharial is in the gavial family. The differences among them seem pretty small, compared to the differences among members of, say, the carnivores. Also, the teeth of a croc are visible even when the mouth is closed. Crocodiles also have stubbier, stouter snouts that alligators. Alligators typically thrive in freshwater environments and anatomy-wise, their eyes are more dorsal than a crocodile's and they have longer, more narrow snouts.
American alligators are the largest members of the class Reptilia that inhabit North America. The term Reptilia is Latin for the phrase “to creep.” Alligators share the order Crocodylia with crocodiles, caimans, and gavials⎯all which are large, voracious animals that live in or near water. Alligators and caimans make up the family Alligatoridae, but alligators have their own genus, Alligator. There are two living species of Alligators, the American alligator and the Chinese alligator. The species that lives in United States is known as the Alligator mississippiensis
Black caimans grow to 16.5 ft (5 m), with the largest recorded size 5.79 m (19 ft). The black caiman and American alligator are the only members of the alligator family that pose the same danger to humans as the larger species of the crocodile family. C. crocodilus, the spectacled caiman, has the widest distribution, from southern Mexico to the northern half of Argentina, and grows to a modest size of about 2.2 m (7 ft). The largest is the near-threatened Melanosuchus niger, the jacare-assu or large or black caiman of the Amazon River basin.