Corns and calluses can be annoying, but your body actually forms them to protect sensitive skin. Corns and calluses are often confused with one another. Corns generally occur on the tops and sides of the feet. A hard corn is a small patch of thickened, dead skin with a central core. A soft corn has a much thinner surface and usually occurs between the 4th and 5th toes. Calluses can develop on hands, feet, or anywhere there is repeated friction -- even on a violinist's chin. Like corns, calluses have several variants. The common callus usually occurs when there's been a lot of rubbing against the hands or feet. A plantar callus is found on the bottom of the foot.
Corns and calluses are areas of thickened skin that develop to protect that area from irritation. They occur when something rubs against the foot repeatedly or causes excess pressure against part of the foot. If the thickening of skin occurs on the bottom of the foot, it's called a callus. 
Normally, a callus will form on any part of the skin exposed to friction over a long period of time. For example, people often develop calluses on the middle finger of their dominant hand due to writing with a pen or pencil. Too much friction occurring too fast for the skin to develop a protective callus will cause a blister or abrasion instead. Biologically, calluses are formed by the accumulation of terminally undifferentiated keratinocytes in the outermost layer of skin.
Medical Definition of CALLUS. 1. : a thickening of or a hard thickened area on skin. 2. : a mass of exudate and connective tissue that forms around a break in a bone and is converted into bone in the healing of the break. 
Plant callus (plural calluses or calli) is a mass of unorganized parenchyma cells derived from plant tissue (explants) for use in biological research and biotechnology. In plant biology, callus cells are those cells that cover a plant wound. 
A corn (or clavus, plural clavi) is a specially-shaped callus of dead skin that usually occurs on thin or glabrous (hairless and smooth) skin surfaces, especially on the dorsal surface of toes or fingers. They can sometimes occur on the thicker palmar or plantar skin surfaces. Too much friction occurring too fast for the skin to develop a protective callus will cause a blister or abrasion instead. Biologically, calluses are formed by the accumulation of terminally undifferentiated keratinocytes in the outermost layer of skin.
A callus, or callosity, is a section of skin that has become toughened and thick as a result of friction, pressure or irritation. If the friction (rubbing) is excessive, blisters will form rather than calluses. In general, calluses are not harmful, but may occasionally lead to infections or ulcerations of the skin. A corn, clavus (plural: clavi) is a specially-shaped callus of dead skin. It usually forms on hairless and smooth (glabrous) skin surfaces, especially between the toes or fingers.
What is a foot corn and callus (hyperkeratosis): A corn or callus are areas of thickened skin that occur in areas of pressure. They are actually a normal and natural way for the body to protect itself. For example, callus develops on the hand when chopping a lot of wood-its a normal way for the skin to protect itself. Corns and callus are one of the most common problems seen by Podiatrists. They can occur on any part of the foot and vary in symptoms from a mild callus under the foot, to an infected ulcer that can develop under a corn on a toe.
A callus (or callosity) is a toughened area of skin which has become relatively thick and hard in response to repeated friction, pressure, or other irritation. Rubbing that is too frequent or forceful will cause blisters rather than allow calluses to form. Too much friction occurring too fast for the skin to develop a protective callus will cause a blister or abrasion instead. Biologically, calluses are formed by the accumulation of terminally undifferentiated keratinocytes in the outermost layer of skin.
Calluses are hardened areas of skin that develop due to continuous pressure or friction. They often occur on the bottom of the feet, and on palms and fingers. They can look yellowish or grayish in color. Taking measures to prevent pressure or irritation generally enables the callused area to recover. 