1 Painting with Dolphins includes assisting a trainer in helping a dolphin use a paintbrush to create a keepsake for $125. 2  The guest stays on a floating platform and must be at least seven years old. 3  Open-water swims cost about $100-$220, depending on location. 1 A simple shallow-water interaction costs about $80-$145, depending on the resort location and the dolphins' behavior. 2  Guests wade into waist-high water to enjoy a dolphin song, kiss, hug or handshake without swimming a stroke.
You will find dolphin swim programs in the Caribbean and the Gulf Coast/Florida region of the United States (mainly in the Florida Keys). The Caribbean programs are somewhat more expensive, although almost all cost between $125 and $195 (as of 2008). A number of commercial and nonprofit organizations allow you to actually get in the water with these beautiful animals. It's a memorable and educational experience. Of course, you will want to find out how much it costs to swim with dolphins and how to plan a vacation to include a dolphin swim in your activities.
Designed for both adults and children (5 years and older), it includes a 20-minute swim with dolphins as the climax of a 2-½ hour tour and educational program. The cost is $125 per person (as of 2008). A number of commercial and nonprofit organizations allow you to actually get in the water with these beautiful animals. It's a memorable and educational experience. Of course, you will want to find out how much it costs to swim with dolphins and how to plan a vacation to include a dolphin swim in your activities.
Best Answer: Well, it depends. At Discovery Cove there is an all-inclusive package that costs $279 plus tax. There's also a Twilight Discovery package that take place in the evening, and that costs $259 plus tax. Finally, there's a Dolphin Lover's Sleepover package that also costs $449 plus tax. http://discoverycove.com/vi_dcpackages_p... At Walt Disney World there is a tour at EPCOT called Dolphins in Depth.. You don't actually swim with the dolphins, but you stand in the water with them, play with them, and feed them.
Discovery Cove. Discovery Cove is a one-of-a kind experience where you can swim with bottlenose dolphins, feed tropical birds, play inches from a family of otters, and even walk on the ocean floor—all in one day. 
1 Open-water swims cost about $100-$220, depending on location. 2  Guests able to swim may enjoy free play with Bottlenose Dolphins, belly rides, kisses and handshakes while in snorkeling or passive-swimming environments. 3  Deep-water swims may include use of a water scooter for about $190. 1 A simple shallow-water interaction costs about $80-$145, depending on the resort location and the dolphins' behavior. 2  Guests wade into waist-high water to enjoy a dolphin song, kiss, hug or handshake without swimming a stroke.
1 Before you will get to experience the joys of swimming with the dolphins, you will first learn things about dolphins and Dolphin Cay, in general, through a presentation prepared by the staff. 2  Interaction with dolphins comes in two different ways: shallow water interaction and deep water swim. 1 PokerstarsCaribbeanAdventure.com gives an information sheet about Dolphin Cay. 2  According to the site, the price of the Shallow Water interaction is $120 to $160 per person. 3  The Deep Water Program, on the other hand, is $190 to $21
Dolphin Bay in Atlantis is one of the most sophisticated dolphin habitats in the world. Here you have the opportunity to swim with dolphins in Dubai; choose from a range of dolphin experiences suitable for all ages and swimming abilities. Interactions range from standing in shallow water to swimming or scuba diving alongside these charismatic creatures. 
The dolphin swim is a 30-minute session in which guests have the opportunity for hands-on contact with the dolphins. Children must be at least 6 years old and accompanied by a participating adult if age 13 or under. Prices range from $165 to $195. You can make arrangements online. A number of commercial and nonprofit organizations allow you to actually get in the water with these beautiful animals. It's a memorable and educational experience. Of course, you will want to find out how much it costs to swim with dolphins and how to plan a vacation to include a dolphin swim in your activities.