Directions. 1  Put the flour, eggs and the bread crumbs each separately in 3 shallow dishes. 2  Add the oil to a large skillet (12 inches in diameter and cast iron is best) over medium heat until hot. Directions. 1  Put the flour, eggs and the bread crumbs each separately in 3 shallow dishes. 2  Stir into the flour the lemon zest. 3  Pat the chicken dry and season both sides with garlic powder, salt and pepper. 4  Dip each breast into the flour, then shake off the excess.
1 In the breading process, it is not essential to coat the chicken with the flour before coating it with the egg. 2  The flour is optional. 3  You can add great flavor by mixing the egg with a few drops of soy sauce. 4  Or, try mixing the egg with some ketchup or mustard. 5  You can use just the egg white, rather than a whole egg. 1 You can add great flavor by mixing the egg with a few drops of soy sauce. 2  Or, try mixing the egg with some ketchup or mustard. 3  You can use just the egg white, rather than a whole egg. 4  You can even use water instead of an egg to moisten the chicken before coating it in the bread crumbs.
1 Put the flour, eggs and the bread crumbs each separately in 3 shallow dishes. 2  Stir into the flour the lemon zest. 3  Pat the chicken dry and season both sides with garlic powder, salt and pepper. 4  Dip each breast into the flour, then shake off the excess. Directions. 1 
With the flat side of a cook's knife or the smooth side of a meat-pounder, pound each breast to equal thickness. Put the flour, eggs, and the bread crumbs each separately in 3 shallow dishes. Pat the chicken dry and season both sides with salt and pepper. Dip each breast into the flour, then shake off the excess. Next, run the breast through the egg to coat it lightly and hold the chicken over the liquid to let any excess fall back into the bowl. Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. To make bread crumbs: Trim the crust off the bread and discard, tear bread into pieces. Spread bread out on a microwave-safe plate, and microwave on HIGH for 1 minute to dry out the bread.
Tip. 1  Moms in a hurry may want to microwave breaded chicken. 2  Use a microwave-safe plate and arrange the chicken evenly on the plate. 3  Cover the frozen chicken with a paper towel and microwave for up to three minutes, depending on the amount of chicken being cooked. Place the baking sheet into the oven and bake for 15 to 20 minutes. Use an instant read thermometer and remove once the chicken pieces reach an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit.
Frozen breaded chicken -- such as patties, strips or nuggets -- can make for a quick meal paired with vegetables and rice. Baking breaded chicken takes only a couple of steps and can be hot and ready in about 15 minutes. Place the baking sheet into the oven and bake for 15 to 20 minutes. Use an instant read thermometer and remove once the chicken pieces reach an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit.
Step 3. Place the breaded chicken onto the baking sheet. Place the baking sheet into the oven and bake for 15 to 20 minutes. Use an instant read thermometer and remove once the chicken pieces reach an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit. Step 4. Remove the chicken strips from the oven and allow them to rest for about five minutes before serving
1 Heat the oil over medium heat in skillet. 2  Once the oil is hot (the oil will look shimmery) add the chicken and fry 3 to 4 minutes on each side or until golden brown and crisp. 3  Once done, place chicken onto a bed of paper towels to absorb excess oil. 1 Add enough oil to the pan so that when the chicken is added, it sizzles around the chicken. 2  Heat the oil over medium heat in skillet. 3
Heat a large skillet (12 inches in diameter) over medium heat. Add the oil. Lay 2 chicken breasts smooth-side down in the pan. Cook the chicken without turning until beginning to brown, about 2 minutes. Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. To make bread crumbs: Trim the crust off the bread and discard, tear bread into pieces. Spread bread out on a microwave-safe plate, and microwave on HIGH for 1 minute to dry out the bread.
Turn the chicken and cook until equally brown on the other side, about 2 minutes more. Repeat with the remaining 2 breasts. Transfer chicken to a paper towel lined plate to drain. Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. To make bread crumbs: Trim the crust off the bread and discard, tear bread into pieces. Spread bread out on a microwave-safe plate, and microwave on HIGH for 1 minute to dry out the bread.