Report Abuse. Once the tracheostomy is done (after 7 to 10 days) and weaning has not been successful, a patient can remain on a ventilator for the rest of his/her natural life. Death is declared by a lack of brain activity on EEG (hence the term, brain dead). If a person is on a vent, and does not have a trach, how long do hospitals (namely ICU's) allow this? He says 10 days is the... show more I'm looking for the medical community to answer this one.
Patients can last for years potentially on ventilation (think of patients in comas for many years, brain damage etc.). Alot, depends on the Hospital. It also depends on the insurance. I know someone who has been on the vent over a year. He, however was moved from ICU to a long term care facility. atleast 12 weeks hun. So, patients might be ventilated upto 10 to 12 days until they get the trachy done or meantime they might be extubated. Hope, this helps. I think the 10 days that the doc is referring to is how long the patient can be on a vent without a trach. The longer a person is ventilated without a trach there is a greater likelihood of developing pneumonia which in an already sick patient is bad
A ventilator is a machine that helps a patient to breathe. Patients are usually placed on a ventilator because of a medical problem that makes it hard for them to breathe well on their own. While on the ventilator, the body is able to rest so that it can heal. Sometimes a patient may become dependent on a ventilator because of his or her medical problems. This may make it difficult to get the patient off the ventilator. When the patient’s medical problems have improved and he or she is well enough, “weaning” will begin.
Once the tracheostomy is done (after 7 to 10 days) and weaning has not been successful, a patient can remain on a ventilator for the rest of his/her natural life. Death is declared by a lack of brain activity on EEG (hence the term, brain dead). So, patients might be ventilated upto 10 to 12 days until they get the trachy done or meantime they might be extubated. Hope, this helps. I think the 10 days that the doc is referring to is how long the patient can be on a vent without a trach. The longer a person is ventilated without a trach there is a greater likelihood of developing pneumonia which in an already sick patient is bad
Answer. Hi Lisa, There is no real limit to how long a person can remain on a ventilator. Usually, if he is still on the ventilator after about 2 wks, the physicians would consider a tracheostomy. They place a small hole through the base of the neck in to the trachea. 
With an endotracheal tube on the ventilator, at our facility we will wait about 10-14 days to trach a patient who is still requiring mechanical ventilation. Once trached, a patient can be on mechanical ventilation until they don't require it anymore. Basically there are some people who never get off of a ventilator. If a person is on a vent, and does not have a trach, how long do hospitals (namely ICU's) allow this? He says 10 days is the... show more I'm looking for the medical community to answer this one.
Necrosis is the end result of the lack of oxygen to a tissue, resulting in tissue death. Every hospital has different guidelines. Once it is determined that a person will be on a ventilator for a prolonged period of time, a tracheostomy can be performed after 4 days in some hospitals, and others after 4 weeks. Because I do not know the intricasies of your mom's condition, I am unable to comment on how long she will be on the ventilator. 
With an endotracheal tube on the ventilator, at our facility we will wait about 10-14 days to trach a patient who is still requiring mechanical ventilation. Once trached, a patient can be on mechanical ventilation until they don't require it anymore. Basically there are some people who never get off of a ventilator. So, patients might be ventilated upto 10 to 12 days until they get the trachy done or meantime they might be extubated. Hope, this helps. I think the 10 days that the doc is referring to is how long the patient can be on a vent without a trach. The longer a person is ventilated without a trach there is a greater likelihood of developing pneumonia which in an already sick patient is bad
One of the most serious and common risks of being on a ventilator is pneumonia. The breathing tube that's put in your airway can allow bacteria to enter your lungs. As a result, you may develop ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP). The breathing tube also makes it hard for you to cough. 