MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS 1 Unit 1 Deﬁ nition of marketing communications ❝ Marketing communication or promotion is one of the elements of the marketing mix and is responsible for putting the marketing offer to the target market. 
Marketing communications tells your story and supports your business all while ensuring the right messages are sent to the right audience and accurately reflect your brand. If you have a great product or service but no one knows about it, you’re not going to be successful. 
Businesses also use marketing communication to retain the product’s current customer base, and to cement relationships with customers and suppliers, notes Reference for Business.. Marketing communication strategy defines the business’s plan for product information dissemination and brand awareness development. Considerations. A business owner must utilize a marketing communication strategy appropriate for each product. If the company sells higher-end diamond jewelry, for example, customers may value a diamond ring’s cut and diamond clarity over other variables.
Advertising. Advertising is often the most prominent element of the communication mix. In fact, marketing and advertising are often misconstrued as the same thing. Advertising includes all messages a business pays to deliver through a medium to reach a targeted audience. Marketing is a broad business function that includes product research and development, merchandising and distribution processes and pricing, as well as communication or promotion. The communication mix refers to specific methods used to promote the company or its products to targeted customers.
Marketing communications is the promotion part of the marketing mix or the four Ps: price, place, promotion, and product. It can also refer to the strategy used by a company or individual to reach their target market through various types of communication. Many trends in business can be attributed to marketing communications; for example: the transition from customer service to customer relations, and the transition from human resources to human solutions and the trends to blogs, email, and other online communication derived from an elevator pitch.
Marketing Communications-Meaning and its Process. Marketing communications is essentially a part of the marketing mix. The marketing mix defines the 4Ps of marketing and Promotion is what marketing communications is all about. It is the message your organization is going to convey to your market. You need to be very particular about different messages you are going to convey through different mediums.
“[The] messages and related media used to communicate with a market.”. “Marketing communications [is] communications via any or all the marketing mix elements.”. “The primary goal of marketing communication is to reach a defined audience to affect its behavior by informing, persuading, and reminding.”. 
Marketing communications are messages and related media used to communicate with a market. Many trends in business can be attributed to marketing communications; for example: the transition from customer service to customer relations, and the transition from human resources to human solutions and the trends to blogs, email, and other online communication derived from an elevator pitch.
Those who practice advertising, branding, brand language, direct marketing, graphic design, marketing, packaging, promotion, publicity, sponsorship, public relations, sales, sales promotion and online marketing are termed marketing communicators, marketing communication managers, or more briefly, marcom managers. Many trends in business can be attributed to marketing communications; for example: the transition from customer service to customer relations, and the transition from human resources to human solutions and the trends to blogs, email, and other online communication derived from an elevator pitch.