The word borax is from Arabic būraq (بورق), meaning white; which is from Middle Persian bwrk, which might have meant potassium nitrate or another fluxing agent, now known as būrah (بوره). Another name for borax is tincal, from Sanskrit. Powdered borax is white, consisting of soft colorless crystals that dissolve easily in water. Borax has a wide variety of uses. It is a component of many detergents, cosmetics, and enamel glazes.
For sodium perborate, see Sodium perborate. Borax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is an important boron compound, a mineral, and a salt of boric acid. Powdered borax is white, consisting of soft colorless crystals that dissolve easily in water. Borax has a wide variety of uses. It is a component of many detergents, cosmetics, and enamel glazes.
What is Borax and ways to use it in cleaning. Borax is a multipurpose refined boron compound. It is also known as a mineral that has white or colorless crystals. These crystals can also have brownish, yellowish, or greenish tinges. Borax, when it hits another material, leaves a white streak similar to that of a chalk. Today, several people think of borax as an ingredient of cleaning products. This is because it is used as an important component of detergents. It is used to clean and brighten laundry. Borax is also used to clean and deodorize rooms in a house, such as the kitchen and the bathroom.
If it is a lotion recipe, borax is used to create an emulsion of oil and water. It works by partially saponifying some of the oil in the solution. Borax is a weak alkaline. Essentially borax based lotions are a weak soap, oil and water combination. The lotion is also quite alkaline and is not very nice on the skin.
1 Go ahead… add a drop or two of food coloring. 2  Measure 1/2 cup of warm water into the plastic cup and add a teaspoon of Borax powder to the water. 3  Stir the solution – don’t worry if all of the powder dissolves. 4  This Borax solution is the secret linking agent that causes the Elmer’s Glue molecules to turn into slime. 1 This Borax solution is the secret linking agent that causes the Elmer’s Glue molecules to turn into slime. 2  While stirring the glue in the mixing bowl, slowly add a little of the Borax solution. 3  Immediately you’ll feel the long strands of molecules starting to connect.
Detergents. Many different forms of borates are used to produce laundry detergents, household or industrial cleaners and personal care products. In these applications, borates' unique properties serve to enhance stain removal and bleaching, stabilize enzymes, provide alkaline buffering, soften water and boost surfactant performance. Because borates act as a biostat, they also serve to control bacteria and fungi in personal care products.
Also known “the miracle mineral,” the term borax denotes both a compound and mineral. It is also called sodium borate. It is best known as a cleansing solution but there are other ways to use it. Uses for Borax: Pest Control. Sodium borate can be used to keep ants, waterbugs and cockroaches away. The solution is to spray sugar and all natural borax in equal amounts at the appropriate places.
While borax can kill fleas, never use it on your pup -- it's toxic to him. Michael Loccisano/Getty Images Entertainment/Getty Images. Sodium borate, more commonly known as borax, is a naturally occurring mineral salt of boric acid. This white, powdery substance frequently serves in detergents and pest control products. 
A solution of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) can be made into a slime by adding borax solution, which creates cross-links between polymer chains. In this activity, some interesting properties of the slime are investigated. A solution of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) can be made into a slime by adding borax solution, which creates crosslinks between polymer chains. In this activity, some interesting properties of the slime are investigated. Students are guaranteed to enjoy the activities involved.