For employees, it refers to the gross monthly wages or salaries before deduction of employee CPF contributions and personal income tax. It comprises basic wages, overtime pay, commissions, tips, other allowances and one-twelfth of annual bonuses. 
The difference between CTC and gross salary, is that some components are included in one, but not in the other. Cost to Company is the amount that an employer will spend on an employee in a particular year, whereas, gross salary is the amount an employee receives as a salary, before any deductions. Though these are included in the CTC, these may vary from one company to another. In regards to gross salary, it is the amount that the employer has committed to pay an employee on a monthly basis. A gross salary will not include the contributions to the PF and gratuity, among other things.
Gross income in United States tax law is receipts and gains from all sources. Gross income is the starting point for determining Federal and state income tax of individuals, corporations, estates and trusts, whether resident or nonresident. Except as otherwise provided by law, Gross income means all income from whatever source, and is not limited to cash received. 1 Wages, fees for services, tips, and similar income. 2  It is well established that income from personal services must be included in the gross income of the person who performs the services. 3  Mere assignment of the income does not shift the liability for the tax.
In addition, there are limits on the amount that can be excluded. Note that a portion of the income of virtually all wage earners is used to pay for housing. What makes the housing allowance unique is that some of the income used to provide housing can be excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes. Also, clergy who live in a parsonage provided by the church do not have to report the fair rental value of the parsonage as income. The actual expenses of operating her home are $8,000 per year. The church and pastor do not have to report $8,000 (out of the $10,000 housing allowance) as income for federal income tax purposes. However, the unused $2,000 of the housing allowance must be included in the pastor's gross income.
The components of a gross salary includes basic pay, dearness allowance, house rent allowance, city compensatory allowance, and other emoluments. Cost to Company refers to the amount that the employer is willing to spend on an employee. Though these are included in the CTC, these may vary from one company to another. In regards to gross salary, it is the amount that the employer has committed to pay an employee on a monthly basis. A gross salary will not include the contributions to the PF and gratuity, among other things.
For servicemembers, the first step to filing taxes is to figure the gross income. Members of the Armed Forces receive many different types of pay and allowances. Some are includible in gross income while others are excludable. Includible items are subject to tax and must be reported on your tax return. 
Basic Salary is the base for calculation of any salary structure. Once Basic pay is fixed, allowances such as Dearness Allowance, House Rent Allowance, Special Pay/ Allowances etc shall be fixed as a percentage of such Basic Pay. Employees whose Gross Salary is Rs.10000 or less than Rs.10000 P.M is entitled for having ESI as a part of salary structure. Also you can include Medical Reimbursement Component in the salary structure which is Rs. 15000 annually. You can also include Fringe Benefit components in the
Hi Archana. HRA ia always calculated on Basic Salary. All the salary components are calculated on Basic Salary apart from ESI. Only ESI is calculated on Gross Salary (Employer Contribution: 4.75% & Employee Contribution: 1.75% of Gross Salary). Employees whose Gross Salary is Rs.10000 or less than Rs.10000 P.M is entitled for having ESI as a part of salary structure. Also you can include Medical Reimbursement Component in the salary structure which is Rs. 15000 annually. You can also include Fringe Benefit components in the salary structure.
Gross pay is the amount of your earnings, wages, salary, tips, etc before any withholding is calculated to be withheld from the gross pay to equal what your net take home pay … will be in your paycheck that will be issued to you. Gross pay is what you make before any deductions. If a job is advertised at $30,000 a year, then that's the gross pay. Net pay is what's left after taxes, health benefits and … other deductions are taken out of your check. So gross pay of $30,000 would become something like net pay of $22,564.