Meet the Seven Sea Turtle Species. There are seven species of sea turtles, which are marine reptiles that need to breathe air to survive. Six of the seven species are found in US waters, and the flatback turtle is only found in the Western Indo-Pacific. Most of their lives are spent at sea, with some species diving to depths of 3000 feet (900 meters). Kemp's Ridley Turtle. Kemp’s ridley turtles (Lepidochelys kempii) are the smallest sea turtles, weighing only 100 lbs (45 kg). Adults spend most of their time in shallow coastal areas in places with mud, sand, or gravel bottoms—often in seagrass beds. They eat swimming crabs, jellyfish and a variety of mollusks.
Sea turtles are large, air-breathing reptiles that inhabit tropical and subtropical seas throughout the world. Sea turtles around the world have been studied to help collect information about their growth rates, reproductive cycles and migration routes. After decades of studying sea turtles, much has been learned. 
At the San Diego Zoo, our aquatic turtles are fed a variety of foods, including earthworms, minnows, goldfish, chopped mice, fruit, yams, and leafy greens. They are also given a special treat the keepers call Jell-O wigglers, a gelatin ball that contains pellets with vitamins and minerals. The majority of the most critically endangered turtles in the world are found in Madagascar and Southeast Asia. San Diego Zoo Global, the Turtle Survival Alliance, and the Wildlife Conservation Society have created a global conservation program for freshwater turtles and tortoises.
Turtle— Spends most of its life in the water. Turtles tend to have webbed feet for swimming. Sea turtles (Cheloniidae family) are especially adapted for an aquatic life, with long feet that form flippers and a streamlined body shape. The majority of the most critically endangered turtles in the world are found in Madagascar and Southeast Asia. San Diego Zoo Global, the Turtle Survival Alliance, and the Wildlife Conservation Society have created a global conservation program for freshwater turtles and tortoises.
Turtles (Testudines) are an ancient group of reptiles that includes hidden necked turtles and side-necked turtles. There are more than 293 species of turtles alive today. Turtles inhabit a variety of habitats including marine, freshwater and terrestrial regions throughout the temperate and tropical regions of the world. 
Turtles. A turtle is an animal in armor. Much of its body lies within a protective shell, which has openings for the turtle's four chunky legs, short tail, and head. When danger threatens, many turtles pull legs, tail, and head into the shell. 
Sea turtles, along with other turtles and tortoises, are part of the order Testudines. The seven living species of sea turtles are: leatherback sea turtle, green sea turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, flatback sea turtle and olive ridley sea turtle. All species except the leatherback are in the family Cheloniidae. The origin of Sea Turtles goes back to the Late Jurassic (150 Ma) with genera such as Plesiochelys, from Europe. In Africa, the first marine turtle is Angolachelys, from the Turonian of Angola. The difference between a sea turtle and other turtles is that their legs and arms cannot retract back into their shells.
Seven different species of sea (or marine) turtles grace our ocean waters, from the shallow seagrass beds of the Indian Ocean, to the colorful reefs of the Coral Triangle, and even the sandy beaches of the Eastern Pacific. Sea turtles are a fundamental link in marine ecosystems. They help maintain the health of sea grass beds and coral reefs that benefit commercially valuable species such as shrimp, lobster and tuna.
They are the leatherback sea turtle, green sea turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, Kemp's ridley sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, flatback sea turtle and olive ridley sea turtle. Four of the species have been identified as endangered or critically endangered with another two being classed as vulnerable. The origin of Sea Turtles goes back to the Late Jurassic (150 Ma) with genera such as Plesiochelys, from Europe. In Africa, the first marine turtle is Angolachelys, from the Turonian of Angola. The difference between a sea turtle and other turtles is that their legs and arms cannot retract back into their shells.
Now that you've decided to add a turtle or tortoise to your family, your next step is figure out which species is the right one for you. There are several different types of turtles and tortoises and each has its own set of unique needs including dietary. Red Ear Slider Turtle: This water turtle is one of the most popular pets in the world! They are ideal for beginners, are omnivores and as adults, can grow up to 11 inches. Ideal for beginners 12 years and older with adult supervision. These turtles enjoy basking so they require land areas.