Statutory law or statute law is written law set down by a body of legislature or by a singular legislator (in the case of an absolute monarchy). This is as opposed to opposed to oral or customary law; or regulatory law promulgated by the executive or common law of the judiciary. Statutory laws are subordinate to the higher constitutional laws of the land and other sources of law.
Statute. An act of a legislature that declares, proscribes, or commands something; a specific law, expressed in writing. A statute is a written law passed by a legislature on the state or federal level. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations. A statute may forbid a certain act, direct a certain act, make a declaration, or set forth governmental mechanisms to aid society. When a bill becomes law, the various provisions in the bill are called statutes. The term statute signifies the elevation of a bill from legislative proposal to law. State and federal statutes are compiled in statutory codes that group the statutes by subject.
Statute. An act of a legislature that declares, proscribes, or commands something; a specific law, expressed in writing. A statute is a written law passed by a legislature on the state or federal level. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations.
Federal Statute Law & Legal Definition. A federal statute is a law enacted by Congress. It is the written will of Congress as expressed formally by an Act of Congress. Thus, when a bill is passed by Congress and signed by the president, it becomes a federal statute.
Introduction. Statutory law in the United States consists of the laws passed by the legislature. For the federal government, then, the statutory law is the acts passed by the United States Congress. These acts are designated as Public Laws or Private Laws. Public laws relate to the general public, while private laws relate to specific institutions or individuals
Common law is defined as law that has been developed on the basis of preceding rulings by judges. Statutory laws are written laws passed by legislature and government of a country and those which have been accepted by the society. 
Full Definition of STATUTE. 1. : a law enacted by the legislative branch of a government. 2. : an act of a corporation or of its founder intended as a permanent rule. 3. : an international instrument setting up an agency and regulating its scope or authority. See statute defined for English-language learners. 
Statutory Law is the term used to define written laws, usually enacted by a legislative body. Statutory laws vary from regulatory or administrative laws that are passed by executive agencies, and common law, or the law created by prior court decisions. 