RE: Remote Starter Install 2008 Honda Accord. Yes, take it to an alarm shop for them to install. I installed mine and it was a headache and voided the alarms warranty in the end. Your car is still under warranty, Im sure youd void a portion of that as well. RE: Remote Starter Install 2008 Honda Accord. i have all the wiring diagrams that you will need to install it. email me at audionmotionink@aol.com and i will send them to you as i can't post them in the forum for some reason.
Disarm the anti-theft system on your Accord. Do this by pressing the unlock button on your keyless entry fob, then physically inserting the key into the driver's door and turning it to the unlock position. Your remote starter will allow you to turn the car and some accessories on without being in the vehicle, but you cannot actually put the car in gear and drive until you put the key into the ignition and turn it to the on position. Other People Are Reading.
Inside you will find the connections you need to wire the remote starter to. These include the power, ignition, starter, accessory, parking light and brake wires. Put on the safety gloves and goggles, then identify each wire using the digital multi-meter and Accord owner's manual. Your remote starter will allow you to turn the car and some accessories on without being in the vehicle, but you cannot actually put the car in gear and drive until you put the key into the ignition and turn it to the on position. Other People Are Reading.
Fits Years 2013 - 2014 only. Genuine Honda Remote Engine Starter Kit for Honda Accord. Integrates with your vehicle's security and immobilizer to ensure protectin, activates the auto climate control to 72 degrees, regardless of last A/C settings. 
Remote Starter Install 2008 Honda Accord. I am going to be installing a remote starter in a 2008 Honda Accord. Just wondering if anyone has installed one and had any tips.. I searched for remote starter but no results came up. Going to be using a Compustar 2BSHLEDS LED 2 Way Keyless Remote Start System with a blade unit bypass.. RE: Remote Starter Install 2008 Honda Accord. i have all the wiring diagrams that you will need to install it. email me at audionmotionink@aol.com and i will send them to you as i can't post them in the forum for some reason.
This is a basic rundown of a remote start/keyless entry install in a 2000 Honda Accord. The remote starter that is being installed is an Avital 4103 and the bypass module is the DEI XK05. The only 2 connections you didn't see in this video were the hood pin and the tach wire because my camera died. 
If your Accord has it, you will need a transponder bypass before you can proceed with the installation. See References for a complete guide to transponder bypasses. Remove the panel beneath the steering wheel. Your remote starter will allow you to turn the car and some accessories on without being in the vehicle, but you cannot actually put the car in gear and drive until you put the key into the ignition and turn it to the on position. Other People Are Reading.
A: The Honda Remote Engine Starter System comes with a wiring harness specially designed for select Honda models that integrates your Immobilizer and Security System with the Remote Starter System. Aftermarket systems need to deactivate the Immobilizer and Security System, which leaves your vehicle unprotected. If you attempted to start your engine outside of the 200-foot range, the vehicle may have received the request and started the vehicle (one-way signal), but the reply back to the transmitter wasn’t completed because you were outside of the 200-foot range (two-way signal).
Instructions. Start the Accord, ensuring that all lights and accessories are in proper working order before you begin the installation. Everything must be in proper working order to complete a successful installation. Thoroughly read the instructions that came with your remote starter kit before you begin. Your remote starter will allow you to turn the car and some accessories on without being in the vehicle, but you cannot actually put the car in gear and drive until you put the key into the ignition and turn it to the on position. Other People Are Reading.