A 2009 profile of the organization in Vanity Fair said Politico had an editorial staff of 75 and a total staff of 100. Its newspaper circulation is around 32,000, and as of summer 2009 its web traffic was around 6.7 million unique visitors per month. Politico is a partner with several news outlets that co-report and distribute its video, print and audio content. Partners include CBS News, Allbritton Communications 's ABC station WJLA and cable channel NewsChannel 8, radio station WTOP-FM, and Yahoo! News election coverage.
For the term describing a person, see politician. Politico is a political journalism organization based in Arlington County, Virginia, that covers the issues, ideas and personalities behind politics and policy in the United States and in the global arena. Its content is distributed via television, the Internet, newspaper and radio. Politico is a partner with several news outlets that co-report and distribute its video, print and audio content. Partners include CBS News, Allbritton Communications 's ABC station WJLA and cable channel NewsChannel 8, radio station WTOP-FM, and Yahoo! News election coverage.
She [Nancy Reagan] was escorted out of the hall by Frederick J. Ryan Jr., chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library Foundation, and president and CEO of The Politico. So the President and CEO of The Politico, Frederick Ryan, is also the Board Chairman for the Reagan Library. So the President and CEO of The Politico worked in multiple positions in the Reagan White House, and was continuously promoted until he rose to the level of Assistant to the President. And his close connection to the Reagan family and the Reagan presidency continues through toda
Politics (from Greek: πολιτικός politikos, definition of, for, or relating to citizens) is the practice and theory of influencing other people. A political system is a framework which defines acceptable political methods within a given society. History of political thought can be traced back to early antiquity, with seminal works such as Plato 's Republic, Aristotle 's Politics and the works of Confucius.
A definition that seemsfruitful is to hold that political processes concern bridging power differences with s0-ciety with those within the state, bridges that carry inputs both from society to the state(e.g., the results of elections) and from the state to society (e.g., Presidential speeches;legislation). 
Noun. 1. politico-a person active in party politics. pol, political leader, politician. leader-a person who rules or guides or inspires others. campaigner, candidate, nominee-a politician who is running for public office. Communist-a member of the communist party. 
John F. Harris and Jim VandeHei left The Washington Post to become Politico' s editor-in-chief and executive editor, respectively, launching the newspaper on January 23, 2007. Frederick J. Ryan Jr. was its first president and chief executive officer. Politico is a partner with several news outlets that co-report and distribute its video, print and audio content. Partners include CBS News, Allbritton Communications 's ABC station WJLA and cable channel NewsChannel 8, radio station WTOP-FM, and Yahoo! News election coverage.
In the middle of an article by The Politico ‘s Mike Allen regarding last night’s GOP presidential debate, one finds this paragraph: So the President and CEO of The Politico, Frederick Ryan, is also the Board Chairman for the Reagan Library. And that makes sense, because Ryan is a long-time, hard-core Reaganite. So the President and CEO of The Politico worked in multiple positions in the Reagan White House, and was continuously promoted until he rose to the level of Assistant to the President. And his close connection to the Reagan family and the Reagan presidency continues through today