Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: spindle (noun). (biology) tiny fibers that are seen in cell division; the fibers radiate from two poles and meet at the equator in the middle. chromosomes are distributed by spindles in mitosis and meiosis. spindle (noun). 
Definition: Spindle fibers are aggregates of microtubules that move chromosomes during cell division. During prophase of mitosis, spindle fibers form at opposite poles of the cell. During metaphase, spindle fibers extend from the cell poles toward the midpoint of the cell known as the metaphase plate. Chromosomes are held at the metaphase plate by the equal forces of the spindle fibers pushing on the centromeres of the chromosomes. In anaphase, spindle fibers pull sister chromatids toward the spindle poles. Spindle fibers not connected to chromatids lengthen and elongate the cell
Spindle Fibers. spindle fibers A collection of microtubules attached to a centromere during mitosis and meiosis that are responsible for the movement of the chromosomes to opposite poles. Spindle fibers align the chromosomes along the middle of the cell nucleus. This line is referred to as the metaphase plate. ~ The protein fibers formed during prophase of nuclear division; chromosomes attach to these fibers at the centromere. spindle The aggregation of microtubules that is involved in the movement and separation of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis.
7. a spindle-shaped structure, composed of microtubules, that forms near the cell nucleus during mitosis or meiosis and, as it divides, draws the chromosomes to opposite poles of the cell. 8. a short, turned or circular ornament, as in a baluster or stair rail. 9. to give the form of a spindle to. 
(1) A collection of minute fibers composed of microtubules, which are prominent during cell division, as mitotic spindle or mitotic apparatus''. (2) A specialized innervated muscle structure involved in the reflex action and in proprioception, as muscle spindle. (3) A species of a poisonous shrub or small tree of the genus Euonymus, originally used for making spindles used for spinning wool. (4) An EEG waveform that occurs during sleep, as sleep spindle.
Spindle fibers are protein structures that form early in mitosis, or cell division. They consist of microtubules that originate from the centrioles, two wheel-shaped bodies located in the centromere area of the cell. The centromere is also known as the microtubule organizing center. Spindle microtubules attach to a specific protein complex called the kinetochore, which is in the centromere area near the center of each chromosome. Other microtubules attach to the chromosome arms or to the other end of the cell. The chromosomes can also create microtubules, as can the spindle itself.
The noun SPINDLE has 3 senses: 1. (biology) tiny fibers that are seen in cell division; the fibers radiate from two poles and meet at the equator in the middle. 2. any of various rotating shafts that serve as axes for larger rotating parts. 3. a stick or pin used to twist the yarn in spinning.
spindle fibers A collection of microtubules attached to a centromere during mitosis and meiosis that are responsible for the movement of the chromosomes to opposite poles. Spindle fibers align the chromosomes along the middle of the cell nucleus. ~ The protein fibers formed during prophase of nuclear division; chromosomes attach to these fibers at the centromere. spindle The aggregation of microtubules that is involved in the movement and separation of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis.
First cell division of a growing embryo (Enlarged Image). The spindle apparatus, or simply the spindle, is a network of microtubules (also called spindle fibers) that forms within a dividing eukaryotic cell, both during mitosis and meiosis (see figure at right). 