If the costs for transporting the body of the deceased seem too expensive and you wish not to incur that level of expense to repatriate your loved one s remains, you may wish to consider a cremation at the place of death. The cremated remains can then be shipped back home at a reduced cost. This is where using an organization specialized in funeral shipping is important. It can cost up to $10,000 to internationally ship human remains, and this can be a huge unexpected and unplanned for expense on top of a funeral.
Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style. However, in addition to the cost of the basic cremation service -- processing a body into the ash-and-bones mixtures called cremains -- a number of other charges may be added for related paperwork, goods, and services, including: Getting an original death certificate and copies.
Do it on your own. If you are confident, you can transfer the remains from the temporary container to a cremation urn on your own. For this you need to first purchase a cremation urn of your choice. You can order it online or else buy one from the funeral home or the crematorium. Place the urn in a well lighted room and in an even place. 
Some families prefer to add a memorial visitation the evening prior to the service as well. Basic Services of Funeral Director & Staff ~ $2,595 Transfer of Body to Facility ~ $345 Alternative container for cremation ~ $105 Cremation charge ~ $395 Memorial Service ~ $575 Utility Vehicle ~ $135. Cremation with Memorial Service ~ $4,150. The cremation is done prior to any services and there is no public viewing. A time for family and friends to gather and visit can be held an hour or two prior to the memorial service.
The other thing to not with paperwork is if the body is going to be cremated a CC (cremation certificate) will be needed. You will not. a CC to transfer or bury the body but it is a must for cremations. The price differs with each state, in NSW it is $88 but it is only $65 in QLD (as far as I am told). The other thing is a CC will cost $88 to get from the hospital which has to be paid for by check. So make sure if the body is due for a cremation that you wither have a check to get the CC or payment has been arranged. 
The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory. However, in addition to the cost of the basic cremation service -- processing a body into the ash-and-bones mixtures called cremains -- a number of other charges may be added for related paperwork, goods, and services, including: Getting an original death certificate and copies.
Cremation Can Be Cheaper. Cremation services can be obtained directly from a crematory or cremation society. In some places simple cremation goes for as low as $300, not including an urn, which can run from $85 to $1,500 and up, or a crypt or memorial site. All told, the average cremation costs around $1,500. A casket is not required for a direct cremation; a simple unfinished wood box or alternative container will do.
Flying a dead body is an expensive cost, so the other alternative is to ship cremated remains. Many of the funeral providers who specialize in funeral shipping will also be able to assist you with the option of arranging a direct cremation at the place of death, and then transportation of the ashes back to the family. This is where using an organization specialized in funeral shipping is important. It can cost up to $10,000 to internationally ship human remains, and this can be a huge unexpected and unplanned for expense on top of a funeral.
The exact cost of human cremation depends on factors like the region, the type of cremation service you choose, the cost of casket or alternative container, price of cremation urn, the way you want to dispose of the ashes, etc. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead. According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body