A khata (Tibetan: ཁ་བཏགས་ ; Dzongkha: བཀབ་ནས kapni, Mongolian: хадаг. [χɑtɑk] , Nepali: खदा khada) is a traditional ceremonial scarf in Tibetan Buddhism. It originated in Tibetan culture and is common in cultures and countries where Tibetan Buddhism is practiced. The khata symbolizes purity and compassion and are worn or presented with incense at many ceremonial occasions, including births, weddings, funerals, graduations and the arrival or departure of guests.
A Khata is essentially a revenue document, detailing the assessment of a property, recording details about the property such as size, location, built up area and so on for the purpose of payment of property tax. It is also a kind of identification of the person who is primarily liable for payment of property tax. What any property buyer should know while buying property in Bangalore is that it should have A khata. An A khata means you are buying a property that is legal, and it will allow you to construct on it and obtain a trade or building license. Here are some further details on the difference between A Khata and B Khata
E Khata is merely the computerization of the actual Khata. It is not a new procedure by BBMP. It is useful for a person to pay property tax. A computerised version of Khata will contail all the details that have been recorded manually.You can obtain receipts when required with the help of PID number. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A Khata Certificate in a computerised format, as it is issued now by the BMP, contains the municipal number of the property concerned, the name of the person in whose name the Khata stands and the Property Identification Number (PID No.). 
Let’s begin with the khata – “In property jargon, Khata is the account of a property. It is primarily an assessment of a property that lies within the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) jurisdiction for the purpose of taxation. The e-khata is an additional/new requirement by the BBMP – FALSE. The e-khata is merely the computerization of the khata and NOT a new requirement or procedure.
For transfer of any property. For applying for a khata certificate, the owner of the property has to give a letter of requisition along with details and receipts of tax paid (latest) to Assistant officer for the sub-division or range. fee for a khata certificate is Rs 25/- per property. Khata Certificate is obtained for any new registration after paying the tax. The certificate is issued saying that a particular property No ‘XYZ’ stands in the name of person A. This certificate is required to apply for water connection, electricity connection, trade license and building license.
The word Khata refers to two specific documents issued by the BBMP (Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike) to a property owner – the Khata Certificate and the Khata Extract. The Khata Certificate is a document that identifies who the owner of a particular property is. In other words, it “certifies” that a particular property belongs to particular person.