Measure Visceral Fat with CT Scan. CT scan offers the most accurate measurement of the amount of visceral fat in the body. However, CT scan is not practical as the scan can be rather expensive. In addition to that, patients are also exposed to radiation thereby posing unnecessary risks to health. First off, since the texture of visceral fat is extremely hard, it’s important to take a reference measurement. All you need to do is to measure the comparison between the positions while you are standing up and again while you are lying down. Do not hold your tummy.
Visceral fat is also different in that it remains the same shape and won't fall to your sides or sink into your stomach when you are lying down. High visceral fat is dangerous and is correlated with cholesterol, diabetes, Alzheimer's and other conditions. This is because visceral fat is the fat that is located inside the abdominal cavity packed between organs rather than underneath the skin (subcutaneous fat) and this fat will release acids that are metabolized by the liver and which can cause insulin resistance in the liver.
This won't all be visceral fat though some of that will be subcutaneous fat that is underneath the skin (though you likely want to be rid of this too). To see how much of that fat is visceral, now measure your stomach once when standing up and once when lying down. This is because visceral fat is the fat that is located inside the abdominal cavity packed between organs rather than underneath the skin (subcutaneous fat) and this fat will release acids that are metabolized by the liver and which can cause insulin resistance in the liver.
Men have two types of fat but one is more evil than the other. Here's how to know if you have visceral or subcutaneous fat and how to go about shedding it. SHARE ON: James Hawkins — August 26, 2013. We human beings have two types of body fat to worry about. 1) Subcutaneous fat – It’s the majority of all the fat in your body. It sits just below the skin and it’s the squishy fat you feel when pressing your skin together. 2) Visceral fat – This is the bad guy. He grows in the abdominal wall and surrounds all your internal organs. You can’t feel this fat through your skin as the ab wall encasing it is too firm. 
By obtaining this figure, one can estimate the amount of visceral fat that is present. Generally, a value greater than 1.0 for men and 0.85 for women indicates a fair amount of visceral fat in the body. You should take consideration to lose visceral fat if the value of your measurement looks rather gloomy. First off, since the texture of visceral fat is extremely hard, it’s important to take a reference measurement. All you need to do is to measure the comparison between the positions while you are standing up and again while you are lying down. Do not hold your tummy.
Visceral Fat Measurement. Visceral fat measurement is easy and you can measure it right at the comfort of your own home. Due to the texture of this fat being so strong, there is a way to determine how much visceral fat you may have. First off, since the texture of visceral fat is extremely hard, it’s important to take a reference measurement. All you need to do is to measure the comparison between the positions while you are standing up and again while you are lying down. Do not hold your tummy.
Grab your free copy here: https://freeweightlossanddetoxkit.com. http://www.BallisticBodyFitness.com-How to Lose Visceral Fat on Your Belly-Learn proven diet and exercise methods to lose 8 to 15 pounds in 10 days with a free working persons detox and weight loss jump start plan at http://www.BallisticBodyFitness.com. 
Visceral fat is a specific type of fat that is found on the stomach, and goes by many other names 'your beer belly', 'spare tyre' or 'muffin top'. Whatever you call it though, it is one of the biggest banes for those trying to lose weight and is often the area where people most want to shift some weight. This is because visceral fat is the fat that is located inside the abdominal cavity packed between organs rather than underneath the skin (subcutaneous fat) and this fat will release acids that are metabolized by the liver and which can cause insulin resistance in the liver.