Definition. Staph infections are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Most of the time, these bacteria cause no problems or result in relatively minor skin infections. 
1 Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, known as MRSA, is a type of Staphylococcus aureus that is resistant to the antibiotic methicillin and other drugs in this class. 2  Staph infections are treated with topical, oral, or intravenous antibiotics, depending upon the type of infection. Staph infection facts. 1  Staphylococcus is group of bacteria that can cause a multitude of diseases. 2  Staph infections may cause disease due to direct infection or due to the production of toxins by the bacteria.
Other staph infections of the skin include impetigo, a painful rash that is contagious, boils, and in babies and young children, staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome, which causes rash, blisters, and fever. One type of staph infection that involves skin is called cellulitis and affects the skin's deeper layers. It is treatable with antibiotics. This type of infection is very common in the general population -- and more common and more severe in people with weak immune systems.
1 Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2  Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome. Staph Infection At A Glance. 1 
In this article. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacterium that causes infections in different parts of the body. It's tougher to treat than most strains of staphylococcus aureus -- or staph -- because it's resistant to some commonly used antibiotics. 
Staphylococcus is a type of bacteria that can cause many types of infections in your body. 1  Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2  Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome. Staph Infection At A Glance
Staph infections can be as minor as a boil to infections which are antibiotic-resistant to infections which are flesh eating. The variances between these infections is the strength of the infection, how deep it goes, how fast it extents, and how curable it is with antibiotics. Staphylococcus is a classification of bacteria which can cause an excess of infections as a consequence of the capability to infect many different types of the fleshy tissue of the body. Staph-associated diseases can vary from very mild and needing no management to severe with the potential to be fatal.
1 Staphylococcus can cause diseases such as abscesses, impetigo, food poisoning, cellulitis, mastitis, scalded skin syndrome, and toxic shock syndrome. 2  MRSA, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, is a type of Staph infection resistant to many different antibiotics. Staph Infection At A Glance. 1  Staphylococcus, is bacteria that can cause many types of infections. 2 
A staph infection is caused by a Staphylococcus (or staph) bacteria. Actually, about 25% of people normally carry staph in the nose, mouth, genitals, or anal area, and don’t have symptoms of an infection. The foot is also very prone to picking up bacteria from the floor. One type of staph infection that involves skin is called cellulitis and affects the skin's deeper layers. It is treatable with antibiotics. This type of infection is very common in the general population -- and more common and more severe in people with weak immune systems.