These types of dogs are often used in police work, search and rescue operations as well as for personal companions and protectors. Guard dogs that are used for personal security do not have to be trained in Schutzhund to be effective protectors. There are many methods of dog training that can teach a dog to protect its family by obeying commands without going through the rigorous training that professional guard dogs learn. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. In general, guard dogs are supposed to protect someone or something. However there are many different types of dogs that are used for guarding that receive specialized types of training in order to provide varying degrees of protection.
While I have never actually trained guard dogs, I am well aware of the temperament that dogs require to be considered a good guard dog candidate. If I was looking to train a guard dog, it is not something I would consider doing alone. Here are some traits every good guard dog will possess: Loves to play (fetch, tug of war, etc.). Boundless energy – working dogs can make you a little nuts with their almost constant need to be mentally and physically active. The ability to quit when told (after being trained).
Guardian dog redirects here. For the statues, see Chinese guardian lion. A guard dog or watch dog (not to be confused with the attack dog) is a dog used to guard against, and watch for, unwanted or unexpected people or animals. The dog is discriminating so that it does not annoy or attack familiar people. Some smaller breeds (such as Keeshond and Tibetan Terrier) are excellent watchdogs but not guard dogs because they bark loudly to alert their masters of intruders but are physically small and not given to assertive behavior.
Schutzhund is a German method of dog training that literally means “protection dog”. Guard Dogs trained in Schutzhund are exceptionally obedient, excel in tracking and are able to guard and subdue a subject in any situation including those with many distractions such as gun shots or crowds. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. In general, guard dogs are supposed to protect someone or something. However there are many different types of dogs that are used for guarding that receive specialized types of training in order to provide varying degrees of protection.
No dog is an attack dog unless trained to do so. Guard dogs will do what they have to do in order to protect the people and territory they consider to be “theirs.” Most will not harm a human, unless that human is not backing down or is outwardly engaging in provoking behavior. Luckily, it rarely comes to this
The public perception of what a guard dog is generally conjures up images of snarling, lunging, foreboding creatures. How realistic this image is varies greatly, as do the reasons why people seek out guard dogs. There's plenty of valid reasons why you may want a guard or protection dog in your household. A well trained guard dog is a valuable family member who will work hard to protect his/her housemates and possessions. Bringing a guard dog into your home does come with a whole lot of extra responsibility though. A guard dog, loosely defined, is one that protects property and family (sometimes called family watch dogs or protection dogs). There is the quintessential 'junk yard' dog whose only purpose is to scare off would-be intruders.
The protective nature of a guard dog also has a warm-and-fuzzy flip side. When they are properly trained and socialized as puppies, they are extremely gentle with family members, and can be trained to back down quickly so that welcome visitors are not intimidated by their presence. Guard dogs will do what they have to do in order to protect the people and territory they consider to be “theirs.” Most will not harm a human, unless that human is not backing down or is outwardly engaging in provoking behavior.
Other breeds of dogs that have the potential to be good guard dogs are dogs in the Mastiff family. Many of these dogs are gentle giants with the family, but they also make determined watch dogs and protection animals. Bringing a guard dog into your home does come with a whole lot of extra responsibility though. A guard dog, loosely defined, is one that protects property and family (sometimes called family watch dogs or protection dogs). There is the quintessential 'junk yard' dog whose only purpose is to scare off would-be intruders.
Both guard dogs and watchdogs bark loudly to alert their owners of an intruder's presence and to scare away the intruder. The watch dog's function ends here; a guard dog is capable of attacking, or restraining the intruder. Some smaller breeds (such as Keeshond and Tibetan Terrier) are excellent watchdogs but not guard dogs because they bark loudly to alert their masters of intruders but are physically small and not given to assertive behavior.
It may come as a surprise to learn that guard dogs are actually friendly when their owner is not under threat. It is only when that situation changes that the attitude of the dog does, too. Here are some traits every good guard dog will possess: Loves to play (fetch, tug of war, etc.). Boundless energy – working dogs can make you a little nuts with their almost constant need to be mentally and physically active. The ability to quit when told (after being trained).