'Factory, Horta de Ebbo', 1909 (oil on canvas). Cubism was a truly revolutionary style of modern art developed by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braques. It was the first style of abstract art which evolved at the beginning of the 20th century in response to a world that was changing with unprecedented speed. 'Weeping Woman', 1937 (oil on canvas). 1  Cubism was invented around 1907 in Paris by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. 2  Cubism was the first abstract style of modern art. 3  A Cubist painting ignores the traditions of perspective drawing and shows you many views of a subject at one time.
Cubism began between 1907 and 1911. Pablo Picasso's 1907 painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon has often been considered a proto-Cubist work. Georges Braque's 1908 Houses at L’Estaque (and related works) prompted the critic Louis Vauxcelles to refer to bizarreries cubiques (cubic oddities). In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
Cubism was an innovative art movement pioneered by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. In Cubism, artists began to look at subjects in new ways in an effort to depict three-dimensions on a flat canvas. They would break up the subject into many different shapes and then repaint it from different angles. 1 Picasso and Braque did not think Cubism should be abstract, but other artists, such as Robert Delaunay, created more abstract work. 2  In this way Cubism eventually helped to spawn the Abstract Art movement. 3  Picasso also worked on Cubist sculpture including his sculpture Head of a Woman.
Cubism is an early-20th-century avant-garde art movement that revolutionized European painting and sculpture, and inspired related movements in music, literature and architecture. Cubism has been considered the most influential art movement of the 20th century. The term is broadly used in association with a wide variety of art produced in Paris (Montmartre, Montparnasse and Puteaux) during the 1910s and extending through the 1920s. In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from one viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context. The impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging.
Cubism is a style of painting that was developed in the early 1900s. Cubist paintings show objects from many angles at once. Two main artists, Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, developed Cubism. They believed that painters should not just present realistic views of subjects. Instead, they wanted to show every part of the whole subject.
1 Cubism was invented around 1907 in Paris by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. 2  Cubism was the first abstract style of modern art. 3  A Cubist painting ignores the traditions of perspective drawing and shows you many views of a subject at one time. 4  The Cubists introduced collage into painting. 'Weeping Woman', 1937 (oil on canvas). 1  Cubism was invented around 1907 in Paris by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. 2  Cubism was the first abstract style of modern art. 3  A Cubist painting ignores the traditions of perspective drawing and shows you many views of a subject at one time.
Cubism -- highly influential visual arts style of the 20th century that was created principally by the painters Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque in Paris between 1907 and 1914. 
Pablo Picasso's Cubism Period - 1909 to 1912. Analytical Cubism is one of the two major branches of the artistic movement of Cubism and was developed between 1908 and 1912. In contrast to Synthetic cubism, Analytic cubists analyzed natural forms and reduced the forms into basic geometric parts on the two-dimensional picture plane. 
Cubism is a style of art created in 1908 by two famous painters Pablo Picasso and George Braque. They both used a lot of cubism in their paintings. - Many think that Cubism is an art of transition, an experiment which is to bring ulterior results. Those who think that way have not understood it. 