A rabbit habitat in the wild varies considerably from forests and meadows to open sagebrush or grasslands to dense thickets in the woods. The most important thing in the habitat of a rabbit is security and protection. Rabbits like to be in enclosed areas where they feel protected. Understanding their natural habitat will help you in designing a rabbit habitat that helps your rabbits feel more comfortable and protected. This can simply be a box inside the cage that the rabbit can rest comfortably in or on top of. If you go this route you’ll find that your rabbit will spend a lot of time there.
Don't forget a domestic rabbits habitat should include a large cage or hutch, (the larger the better), even larger exercise area, water bottles, food bowl, light/shade, bedding, litter box, and other accessories. Pet Rabbits Habitat. My pet rabbit 'Cuddles' enjoying his natural habitat, my son's trampoline, he loves it! Lets not forget a rabbit's habitat can also be your backyard, garden, local city field and even your home. They will live in a hutch on your lawn or in your garden, sometimes in their own run and often indoors.
Habitat of a Rabbit. In connection with the habitat of rabbits, it could be taken in connection with two scenarios-one, the habitat in captivity and two, the habitat in the wild. Let's give you the details of the same in the sections that follow. Habitat in the Wild. A rabbit habitat is one in which the rabbit naturally exists and lives. Rabbits prefer to live in places that have a moderate climate. Rabbits who live in their natural surroundings and habitats live in meadows, forests, grasslands, sagebrush, woods, deserts, wetlands, and dense thickets. Since there is a wide range of rabbit habitats, different rabbit breeds are found in different habitats -- the Eastern cottontail rabbit is primarily found in the grasslands of North and Central America, South America, and Southern Canada, while the Swamp rabbit occupies the wetlands of Southern America.
Rabbit habitats include meadows, woods, forests, grasslands, deserts and wetlands. Rabbits live in groups, and the best known species, the European rabbit, lives in underground burrows, or rabbit holes. A group of burrows is called a warren. More than half the world's rabbit population resides in North America. 
You are most likely to find rabbits in grasslands, meadows, thickets, forests and in the woods. They live in a warren: underground holes, or a burrow. Wild rabbits have firm dirt to dig in, shrubs, grass, and shade/light. A rabbit's habitat is a backyard or local city fields. The habitat of a wild rabbit depends on the rabbit's species. The European Rabbit (the species all pet rabbits were bred from) live in the Mediterranean region. A note about pet rabbits: A rabbit's habitat is a backyard or your home! Bunnies are kept as pets in some places, like Canada. They will live in a hutch in your lawn or garden or sometimes in their own run, or indoors.
The habitat of the wild rabbit is largely dependent on the species type and what they have adapted to. The habitats of the domestic rabbit (our pets) have changed dramatically from the preferences of their wild rabbit ancestors. Sadly not for the better. Pet Rabbits Habitat. My pet rabbit 'Cuddles' enjoying his natural habitat, my son's trampoline, he loves it! Lets not forget a rabbit's habitat can also be your backyard, garden, local city field and even your home. They will live in a hutch on your lawn or in your garden, sometimes in their own run and often indoors.
Rabbit Habitat. Partridge Pea. Blackberry, switch cane, and crossvine are components of excellent rabbit habitat in the floodplain. They use the plants for cover, food, and nesting. Birds, butterflies, and bees also feed on the nectar from flowers and many birds and mammals eat berries of the blackberry plant. Blackberry, switch cane, and crossvine are components of excellent rabbit habitat in the floodplain. They use the plants for cover, food, and nesting
This is the species all pet rabbits were bred from. They live in the Mediterranean region and are native to south western Europe (Spain and Portugal), but can also be found in northwest Africa (Morocco and Algeria). The European rabbit prefers grassland habitats. Pet Rabbits Habitat. My pet rabbit 'Cuddles' enjoying his natural habitat, my son's trampoline, he loves it! Lets not forget a rabbit's habitat can also be your backyard, garden, local city field and even your home. They will live in a hutch on your lawn or in your garden, sometimes in their own run and often indoors.