No: kalonji seeds are also called nigella or black onion seed … s and  are completely different from chia. Kalonji is often used in  pickles, has a very unique, bitter, tangy flavour and is deep black  in colour (calory/100g = 345), native to South Asia. It is called Sabja in Hindi. In summer most Hyderabadis drink this in kind of flavoured milk shake called FALOODA. This seed looks like a mustard seed. The minute you put it in water this seed becomes like gelatin-spongy and like a Papaya seed (mucous and fleshy)
1 Say the word chia, and most of us immediately think of little green pets. 2  In poetry, this part of the chia is alluded to in a highly figurative manner. 3  Mexicans make a delicious, refreshing beverage called agua de chia, which is particularly popular during Semana Santa (Holy Week) which falls this month (2005). 1 Meng-chia which is based upon oracle bone texts, -- The most recent general study on feudalism, and on feudalism in China, is in R. Coulborn, _Feudalism in History_, Princeton 1956.
Best Answer: its called in Sabja Hindi..Chia seeds can help you lose weight by eliminating hunger.To lose weight with chia seeds, have the chia seeds for breakfast and prior to each meal. Drink with plenty of water. Source(s): groovy_aakriti · 3 years ago. This Site Might Help You. RE: What is Indian common name of Chia seed and how it loose weight..? I hv read abou chia seed but don&#39;t now it&#39;s Indian (Hindi) common name also I hv read about hemp & flex seeds to loose weight naturally. Are all these work? if anyone know about seeds kindly guide me.
A A+ A++. Salvia hispanica (Botanical name) commonly known as CHIA in the West is a species of flowering plants in the mint family, Lamiaceae. Sabja, it's called in Hindi. It is a native to central and southern Mexico and Guatemala. It was cultivated by the Aztec in pre-Columbian times. 
What is chia seeds called in Hindi? Chia seeds are called 'sabja' or 'kalonji' in Hindi  .It helps to reduce weight by eliminating hunger. It is called Sabja in Hindi. In summer most Hyderabadis drink this in kind of flavoured milk shake called FALOODA. This seed looks like a mustard seed. The minute you put it in water this seed becomes like gelatin-spongy and like a Papaya seed (mucous and fleshy)
Salvia hispanica, commonly known as chia (/ˈtʃiːə/), is a species of flowering plant in the mint family, Lamiaceae, native to central and southern Mexico and Guatemala. 
Chia seeds are called ' sabja' or ' kalonji ' in Hindi .It helps to reduce weight by eliminating hunger. Split and merge into it. Answer by Jorge Hersschens. Chia seeds are called ' sabja' or ' kalonji ' in Hindi .It helps to reduce weight by eliminating hunger. No: kalonji seeds are also called nigella or black onion seeds and are completely different from chia. Kalonji is often used in pickles, has a very unique, bitter, tangy flavour and is deep black in colour (calory/100g = 345), native to South Asia