Of all the plastics, PTFE (Polytetrafluoroethylene) have emerged as the most common plastic gasket material PTFE’s outstanding properties include resistance to temperature extremes from -140 F to 450 F (for virgin material). PTFE is highly resistant to chemicals, solvents, caustics and acids except free fluorine and alkali metals. It has a very low surface energy and does not adhere to the flanges. PTFE gaskets can be supplied in a variety of forms; either as virgin or reprocessed material, and also with a variety of filler material.
Teflon® Coated Fabrics. TEFLON® Coated Fabrics offer a desirable combination of PTFE Fluoropolymers with the superior mechanical properties of a woven fabric. With many different configurations and fabrics available many of the most demanding high temperature and high impact applications can be served. 
Addition of glass improves compressive properties by as much as 40% and improves wear resistance greatly. These compounds resist acids and oxidation but can be attacked by alkali. Teflon with 25% glass fibers for increased stability is supplied in sheets, rods & tubes. 1  It is available in Standard 25% Glass Filler, as well as, 15%, 20%, and other custom blends. 2  Data Represented for this product in the Material Design Tool (Sortable Data Sheets) is based on the standard 25% Glass-Filled PTFE
PTFE glass fabrics consist of a woven fiberglass that has been coated with a PTFE resin. They are designed for a wide range of applications and come in several grades to meet specific performance requirements. Porous Grade PTFE Fabric. Porous grade PTFE fabric is designed for airflow, outgassing and resin bleed-through. It uses open-mesh glass fabric with a coating of PTFE that ranges from breathing to 0.25- inch mesh. This grade also has excellent resistance to chemicals. Typical uses include filtration, release sheets for fabric coating, the curing of rubber and plastic foams, and applications that require draining or drying
A: PTFE stands for PolyTetraFluoroEthylene, which is the chemical term for the polymer (CF2)n. Teflon is a registered trademark of DuPont and is used in relation to products manufactured with DuPont's fluoropolymer products. 
The properties of 25% glass-filled and 25% carbon-filled PTFE grades are shown below for comparison purposes. There are literally dozens of different filled PTFE products and grades -- too many to be listed here. 
PTFE, or polytetrafluoroethylene, is a Teflon®-coated woven fiberglass membrane that is extremely durable and weather resistant. PTFE fiberglass membranes can be installed in climates ranging from the frigid arctic to the scorching desert heat with a project life in some cases exceeding 30 years. PTFE fiberglass coating is chemically inert, capable of withstanding temperatures from -100°F to +450°F (-73°C to +232°C).
PTFE is used as a non-stick coating for pans and other cookware. It is very non-reactive, partly because of the strength of carbon–fluorine bonds and so it is often used in containers and pipework for reactive and corrosive chemicals. Where used as a lubricant, PTFE reduces friction, wear and energy consumption of machinery. PTFE is a fluorocarbon solid, as it is a high-molecular-weight compound consisting wholly of carbon and fluorine. PTFE is hydrophobic: neither water nor water-containing substances wet PTFE, as fluorocarbons demonstrate mitigated London dispersion forces due to the high electronegativity of fluorine.
PTFE 25% Glass Filled™ Compression MoldedPTFE 25% Glass Filled exhibits low wear and creep under load. Glass Fibers can beadded in various amounts (5% to 40%) depending upon the application. 25% is the most popular glass fill percentage used for most applicaitons. 