Definition of Mediastinum. 1. Noun. The part of the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart and aorta and esophagus and trachea and thymus. Definition of Mediastinum. 1. Noun. (anatomy) The region in mammals between the pleural sacs, containing the heart and all of the thoracic viscera except the lungs.
Noun. 1. mediastinum-the part of the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart and aorta and esophagus and trachea and thymus. bodily cavity, cavum, cavity - (anatomy) a natural hollow or sinus within the body. 2. the area in the chest that lies between the lungs, is bounded by the sternum, the spinal column, and the diaphragm, and contains the heart, esophagus, trachea, and other thoracic structures. mediastīnus middle class, derivative of Latin medius mid 1 ].
Mediastinum: The area between the lungs. The organs in the mediastinum include the heart and its large veins and arteries, the trachea, the esophagus, the bronchi, and lymph nodes.
mediastinal shift a shifting or moving of the tissues and organs that comprise the mediastinum (heart, great vessels, trachea, and esophagus) to one side of the chest cavity. The condition occurs when a severe injury to the chest causes the entrapment of air in the pleural space (tension pneumothorax). mediastinal. of or pertaining to the mediastinum. mediastinal flutter movement of the tissues and organs of the mediastinum back and forth with each movement of air into and out of an open sucking wound in the thoracic cavity.
The mediastinum is the cavity that separates the lungs from the rest of the chest. It contains the heart, esophagus, trachea, thymus, and aorta. The mediastinum has three main parts: the anterior mediastinum (front), the middle mediastinum, and the posterior mediastinum (back). 
Definition of MEDIASTINUM. : the space in the chest between the pleural sacs of the lungs that contains all the tissues and organs of the chest except the lungs and pleurae; also: this space with its contents. — me·di·as·ti·nal \-ˈstī-nəl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of MEDIASTINUM. 1. : the space in the chest between the pleural sacs of the lungs that contains all the viscera of the chest except the lungs and pleurae; also: this space with its contents. 2. : mediastinum testis.
1. A septum between two parts of an organ or a cavity. 2. The median partition of the thoracic cavity, covered by the mediastinal part of the parietal pleura and containing all the thoracic viscera and structures except the lungs. mediastinum. pl. mediastina [L.]. 1. a median septum or partition. 2. the mass of tissues and organs separating the two lungs, between the sternum ventrally and the vertebral column dorsally, containing the heart and its large vessels, trachea, esophagus, thymus, lymph nodes, and other structures and tissues.
The mediastinum (from Medieval Latin mediastinus, midway) is the central compartment of the thoracic cavity surrounded by loose connective tissue, as an undelineated region that contains a group of structures within the thorax. The mediastinum lies within the thorax and is enclosed on the right and left by pleurae. It is surrounded by the chest wall in front, the lungs to the sides and the spine at the back. It extends from the sternum in front to the vertebral column behind, and contains all the organs of the thorax except the lungs.
a part of the thoracic cavity in the middle of the thorax, between the pleural sacs containing the two lungs. It extends from the sternum to the vertebral column and contains all the thoracic viscera except the lungs. mediastinum. pl. mediastina [L.]. 1. a median septum or partition. 2. the mass of tissues and organs separating the two lungs, between the sternum ventrally and the vertebral column dorsally, containing the heart and its large vessels, trachea, esophagus, thymus, lymph nodes, and other structures and tissues.