2. Structural motifs-proteins are the primary sources of regulated gene expression in eukaryotes (protein secondary structures and alpha helices), functional domains-allow the proteins to identify and specific regulatory DNA sequences in the major groove or minor groove. the introduction of a gene from one organism into the genome of another organism, the challenges: the need to introduce DNA into a cell in such a way that the DNA integrates into the genome, the need to provide appropriate regulatory sequences so that the transgene will be properly expressed.
cis-regulatory elements (CREs) are regions of non-coding DNA which regulate the transcription of nearby genes. The Latin prefix cis translates to “on this side”. CREs are found in the vicinity of the gene, or genes, they regulate. An example of a cis-acting regulatory sequence is the operator in the lac operon. This DNA sequence is bound by the lac repressor, which, in turn, prevents transcription of the adjacent genes on the same DNA molecule.
5 Regulatory elements that map near agene are cis-acting DNA sequences ¥cis-acting elements ÐCore Promoter ð Basal level expression ¥Binding site for TATA-binding protein and associated factors ÐPromoter Proximal Elements-True level of expression ¥Binding sites for transcription factors Core. 2 Proteins act in transDNA sites act only in cis ¥Trans acting elements (not DNA) can diffusethrough cytoplasm and act at target DNAsites on any DNA molecule in cell (usuallyproteins)¥Cis acting elements (DNA sequences) canonly influence expression of adjacent geneson same DNA molecule /27.
Gene organization. The transcription region consists of exons and introns. The regulatory elements include promoter, response element, enhancer and silencer (not shown). Downstream refers to the direction of transcription and upstream is opposite to the transcription direction.
Cis-regulatory elements are often binding sites for one or more trans-acting factors. To summarize, cis-regulatory elements are present on the same molecule of DNA as the gene they regulate whereas trans-regulatory elements can regulate genes distant from the gene from which they were transcribed. An example of a cis-acting regulatory sequence is the operator in the lac operon. This DNA sequence is bound by the lac repressor, which, in turn, prevents transcription of the adjacent genes on the same DNA molecule.
The cis-regulatory elements are the binding sites of transcription factors which are the proteins that, upon binding with cis-regulatory elements, can affect (either enhance or repress) transcription. The trans-regulatory elements are the DNA sequences that encode transcription factors. The transcription region consists of exons and introns. The regulatory elements include promoter, response element, enhancer and silencer (not shown). Downstream refers to the direction of transcription and upstream is opposite to the transcription direction.
A regulatory sequence is a segment of a nucleic acid molecule which is capable of increasing or decreasing the expression of specific genes within an organism. Regulation of gene expression is an essential feature of all living organisms and viruses. In DNA, regulation of gene expression normally happens at the level of RNA biosynthesis (transcription), and is accomplished through the sequence-specific binding of proteins (transcription factors) that activate or inhibit transcription. Transcription factors may act as activators, repressors, or both.
The transcriptional region is the part of DNA to be transcribed into a primary transcript (an RNA molecule complementary to the transcriptional region). The regulatory region can be divided into cis-regulatory (or cis-acting) elements and trans-regulatory (or trans-acting) elements. The transcription region consists of exons and introns. The regulatory elements include promoter, response element, enhancer and silencer (not shown). Downstream refers to the direction of transcription and upstream is opposite to the transcription direction.