Do you have the practice exams for the new PTCB Test? The one they've change it to November 2013? Is it different from the old exam?Replyby JerryYes, this site has been updated for the new PTCB test!Yes, the PTCB switched things up in late 2013, and heavily restructured the certification exam. The exam is now scored from 1000 to 1600, and a 1400 is required to pass. This means that if you got everything wrong you would have a score of 1000. Effectively, this means that you need to get two-thirds of the questions correct.
Most pharmacies require you to have passed the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board's (PTCB) Exam, and almost every employer will grant higher salaries to those that have passed the PTCB Exam. Our PTCB Course is broken up into 9 chapters, with hundreds of PTCB Practice Questions. You'll be able to memorize the Top Medications in no time with our proven techniques. The Calculations will be a breeze once you see how most of them can be reduced to just one equation!
PASS RATE. Sign up today for our PTCB Practice Test Program and join the thousands of other Pharmacy Technicians that passed their PTCB certification exam after using our system. Improve your chances of passing the first time to 98% with our proven system and our database of 2000+ PTCB practice test questions. We’re so confident in our program that we offer a 100% pass guarantee. Take a free PTCB practice test, sample our proven method of PTCB test prep, sign up and join the thousands of other Pharmacy Technicians that passed their Pharmacy Technician Certification Board Exam (PTCB PTCE) on their first try.
The PTCB Exam is difficult, with only a 70% passing rate. The exam consists of 90 multiple choice questions, where only 80 questions count toward the final score. Each question provides four answer choices, where only one answer is correct. We’re so confident in our program that we offer a 100% pass guarantee. Take a free PTCB practice test, sample our proven method of PTCB test prep, sign up and join the thousands of other Pharmacy Technicians that passed their Pharmacy Technician Certification Board Exam (PTCB PTCE) on their first try.
Passing Score. A panel of content experts established a passing score for the PTCE using industry best practices. The method used by the panel, as directed by a psychometrician, is known as the modified-Angoff method. These estimates were analyzed for consistency and averaged to produce the passing score. The passing score and all candidate results are reported as scaled scores. The passing scaled score for the updated PTCE is 1400, with a range of possible scores of 1000 to 1600.
(INDIANAPOLIS). I have question. about the new ptcb scoring, recently they change score, before 300 to 900 passing rate was 650. now 1000 to 1600 passing rate is 1400. 80 out of 90 isn't right... by: Anonymous. That's not true either. There are 90 questions, but only 80 are scored, thus removing the idea that you have to get 80 out of 90 right-then that would be a perfect score.
Passing The Exam. You have two hours to take this exam and receive a pass or fail notice on the computer upon completion. Your final scores will be mailed to you. These will range from 300 to 900. The minimum score to pass is 650. If you successfully passed the exam, you will receive your certificate in the mail within a few weeks from your test date. If you failed, you can retake the exam up to more three times.
Upon notification of exam results being available, candidates have 30 days to submit their hand score request. Payment for the hand score request must be in the form of a check or money order made payable to PTCB. Please allow 4 to 6 weeks for hand score request results. These estimates were analyzed for consistency and averaged to produce the passing score. The passing score and all candidate results are reported as scaled scores. The passing scaled score for the updated PTCE is 1400, with a range of possible scores of 1000 to 1600.
I flunked the first PTCB test at M.I.T building 10 in Cambridge,MA and passed the second PTCB test at Pearson Education Center in Boston,MA(computerized testing facility). When you want high scores or to pass any test you need to know what to study for. So the goal is you want to become a certified pharmacy technician and the only way to accomplish that is to pass the national ptcb test. Passing this test allows you to register with your local state board of pharmacy. 
The scoring methods used by PTCB are valid and accurate. However, if a failing score is received, candidates may request to have their results verified by hand. To request a hand score, candidates must submit the Hand Score Request Form along with the hand score fee of $50. These estimates were analyzed for consistency and averaged to produce the passing score. The passing score and all candidate results are reported as scaled scores. The passing scaled score for the updated PTCE is 1400, with a range of possible scores of 1000 to 1600.