If, however, you opened your Roth IRA less than five years ago, the withdrawal is an early distribution. As with a traditional IRA early withdrawal, a Roth holder can use the first-home exception to avoid the 10 percent penalty but might owe tax on earnings that are withdrawn. For both types of retirement plans, the IRS generally considers IRA withdrawals made before you reach age 59 1/2 as premature distributions. In addition to owing any tax that might be due on the money, you could face a 10 percent penalty charge on the amount.
(iStockPhoto). Withdrawals from individual retirement accounts before age 59 1/2 typically trigger a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty. However, there are several exceptions to the penalty if you meet certain circumstances or spend the money on specific purchases. Here are 10 ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty:
Ordinarily, though, those under age 59 would owe the 10% early withdrawal penalty for taking the money before five tax-years had passed since the conversion. But a distribution for a first home purchase is an authorized exception to the early withdrawal penalty on IRA distributions. Now the law allows individuals to receive distributions from their traditional IRAs to pay up to $10,000 of first-time homebuyer expenses without incurring the 10% early withdrawal penalty that usually applies to withdrawals from a traditional IRA before age 59 1/2.
It's not often that you can take money from your traditional IRA or from your earnings in a Roth IRA before age 59 1/2 and avoid the dreaded 10% early withdrawal penalty. But, surprisingly enough, this is one of the tax benefits enacted as part of the 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act to help people become homeowners. Now the law allows individuals to receive distributions from their traditional IRAs to pay up to $10,000 of first-time homebuyer expenses without incurring the 10% early withdrawal penalty that usually applies to withdrawals from a traditional IRA before age 59 1/2.
Early Withdrawal Penalty. If you take money out of your SEP IRA prior to age 59-1/2, you will have to pay a 10 percent penalty on the withdraw. This penalty comes in addition to the regular taxes you owe.
Withdrawal. For tax purposes, the Internal Revenue Service regards age 59 1/2 as the retirement age. Withdrawals from a SEP before this age are classified as premature and are subject to a 10 percent federal penalty. The penalty applies to both principal and earnings
+ More. If you withdraw money from your individual retirement account before age 59 1/2, you will generally have to pay a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn. This means a $5,000 withdrawal taken by a mid-career worker in the 25 percent tax bracket would result in $1,750 in taxes and penalties. But there are a variety of ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty if you meet specific criteria: Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2
Penalty Amount. The California IRA early withdrawal penalty isn't nearly as harsh as the IRS penalty. Instead of charging you 10 percent, California only hits your early IRA distribution with a 2.5 percent penalty. For example, if you take a $5,000 early IRA withdrawal, you owe $125 in penalties to California. If you're taking an early distribution from a savings incentive match plan for employees, or SIMPLE IRA, within the first two years of starting the account, the penalty jumps to 6 percent.