Average Plant Operator Salaries. The average salary for plant operator jobs is $44,000. Average plant operator salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term plant operator anywhere in the job listing.
National Salary Statistics. Chemical plant operators earn an average of $54,920 per year as of May 2011, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Indeed, 80 percent of all workers in this occupation reported salaries of between $34,430 and $74,480 per year. BLS statistics for May 2011 indicate that annual salaries for chemical plant operators varied significantly throughout the country. Most of the highest-paying jobs were concentrated in the nation's interior and western half.
Average Chemical Operator salaries for job postings nationwide are 12% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Average salaries for inexperienced employees average out to around $50K, but folks who have five to 10 years of experience earn a higher median of $54K. Chemical Plant Operators claiming one to two decades of experience make an estimated median of $57K. In the world of Chemical Plant Operators, overall income ranges from $31K near the bottom to $80K at the top; this can include more than $4K from bonuses and more than $8K from profit sharing in exceptional cases. Nearly all enjoy medical while most get dental coverage.
$46,000. Average Chemical Plant Operator salaries for job postings in Anacortes, WA are 6% lower than average Chemical Plant Operator salaries for job postings nationwide.
Chemical plant operators earn an average of $54,920 per year as of May 2011, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. BLS statistics for May 2011 indicate that annual salaries for chemical plant operators varied significantly throughout the country. Most of the highest-paying jobs were concentrated in the nation's interior and western half.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Chemical Plant Operator in the United States is $48,636, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Chemical Plant Operator in the United States are expected to make less than $48,636. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. The annual salary for someone with the job title Chemical Plant Operator may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Chemical Plant Operators in the United States are largely men, earning an average of $21.29 per hour. In the world of Chemical Plant Operators, overall income ranges from $31K near the bottom to $80K at the top; this can include more than $4K from bonuses and more than $8K from profit sharing in exceptional cases. Nearly all enjoy medical while most get dental coverage.