Medications for insomnia and hypersomnia usually act on neural systems and affect, in some manner, neurotransmitters. Sleep aids tend to work on the GABA receptors in the brain, or melatonin receptors. Once at the second cell, the neurotransmitter binds to a receptor, telling the second cell what to do or telling another neuron if to send a signal and whether it should be a strong or a weak signal. Among other things, neurotransmitters are responsible for spinal reflexes and sleep regulation.
Norepinephrine is the neurotransmitter most involved in the “fight or flight” response and other stressful situations, since it increases heart rate and blood pressure. A catecholamine, It is intertwined with arousal, wakefulness, attentiveness, sleep and it is also involved in the formation of memories. Once at the second cell, the neurotransmitter binds to a receptor, telling the second cell what to do or telling another neuron if to send a signal and whether it should be a strong or a weak signal. Among other things, neurotransmitters are responsible for spinal reflexes and sleep regulation.
Following are neurotransmitters of interest to sleep researchers and that scientists agree are actually neurotransmitters. GABA (gamma aminobuytric acid) is an amino acid derivative that acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter, preventing or reducing certain nerve signals. Once at the second cell, the neurotransmitter binds to a receptor, telling the second cell what to do or telling another neuron if to send a signal and whether it should be a strong or a weak signal. Among other things, neurotransmitters are responsible for spinal reflexes and sleep regulation.
GABA is your body’s main relaxing neurotransmitter. Your body’s main excitatory neurotransmitter (Glutamate) is most active during your waking hours. So when you fall asleep your brain Glutamate levels should drop and your brain GABA levels should rise. This facilitates a great restful nights sleep. 
Glutamate. Glutamate is an excitatory relative of GABA. It is the most common neurotransmitter in the central nervous system-as much as half of all neurons in the brain-and is especially important in regards to memory. Curiously, glutamate is actually toxic to neurons, and an excess will kill them. GABA acts like a brake to the excitatory neurotransmitters that lead to anxiety. People with too little GABA tend to suffer from anxiety disorders, and drugs like Valium work by enhancing the effects of GABA.
Neurotransmitters and Sleep by Richard H. Hall, 1998 Acetylcholine: Sleep and Thermoregulation In the first part of this lesson we discussed the characteristics of the stages of sleep, the sleep cycle, and the functions of sleep. The acetylcholine neurons that are most important in the sleep process have cell bodies in the Pons and the Basal Forebrain. The pons is located at the base of the brain just above the medulla.
GABA (Gamma amino butyric acid) is your major inhibitory/calming neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. It is often considered to act as mother nature's Xanax.. Indeed, it is throught the GABA system that most sedatives, prescription sleep aids, and tranquilizers work. 
This website covers all aspects of sleep; neurotransmitters are involved in sleep, waking, and the transitions between them. Brain chemistry is very complicated and scientists don't totally understand how all the pieces fit together. Here we give a short description of major neutrotransmitters. Once at the second cell, the neurotransmitter binds to a receptor, telling the second cell what to do or telling another neuron if to send a signal and whether it should be a strong or a weak signal. Among other things, neurotransmitters are responsible for spinal reflexes and sleep regulation.