A decrease in tension during the Cold WarDetente refers to an easing of international tension. It generally is used to describe the attempts to lower tensions in the Cold War. … it is used to refer to the time when there is ease of tension between united states and former soviet union 1: the relaxation of strained relations or tensions (as between nations); also: a policy promoting this2: a period of detente. détente 
Detente. Detente is a term usually associated with the relations between America, Russia and China. The world experienced much detente during the 1970s for a number of reasons: Vietnam – The war in Vietnam shocked people. She was also fearful of what the USA had done in nuclear weapons. Also both the USA and USSR had huge stockpiles of weapons. China – she was fearful of her isolation in the world
Richard Nixon (right) meets with Leonid Brezhnev during detente. From the mid-1960s the Cold War appeared to soften, with a gradual but noticeable easing of tensions between the US, USSR and some of their allies. Soviet imports of Western consumer goods also increased sharply, doubling by 1979. 1. Detente was a period of improved relations between the superpowers, leading to less hostility and confrontation.
Though the Cold War was far from over, detente was a period of mutual acceptance by both superpowers. Though their ideological and economic systems may have rendered them incompatible, they acknowledged that there had to be systems for communicating and working together. Soviet imports of Western consumer goods also increased sharply, doubling by 1979. 1. Detente was a period of improved relations between the superpowers, leading to less hostility and confrontation.
Detente détente ended after The soviet intervention In, afghanistan which led to The United states boycott of the 1980 olympics In. Moscow Ronald 'reagan s election as president in, 1980 based in large part on an-anti detente, détente campaign marked the close of detente détente and A Return to. cold war tensions Detente détente ended after The soviet intervention In, afghanistan which led to The United states boycott of the 1980 olympics In. moscow
Detente détente was known In russian as ( разрядка , razryadka loosely meaning relaxation of). Tension the period was characterized by the signing of treaties such AS Salt i and The Helsinki. Accords another, TREATY SALT, ii was discussed but never ratified by The United. states Detente détente ended after The soviet intervention In, afghanistan which led to The United states boycott of the 1980 olympics In. moscow
· just now. Report Abuse. Detente détente was the general reduction in the tension between The Soviet union and The United states and a thawing of The Cold war that occurred from the late 1960s until the start of the. 1980s Best Answer: During the Cold War, tensions between communism and democracy rose and fell. In the early 1970s there was a relaxation period that became known as Detente, which is French for release of tensions..
Detente détente was known In russian as ( разрядка , razryadka loosely meaning relaxation of). Tension the period was characterized by the signing of treaties such AS Salt i and The Helsinki. accords Detente détente ended after The soviet intervention In, afghanistan which led to The United states boycott of the 1980 olympics In. moscow
The U.S./U.S.S.R. detente détente was presented as an applied extension of that. Thinking THE SALT ii pact of the late 1970s continued the work of THE Salt i, talks ensuring further reduction in arms by The soviets and by THE. us Detente détente ended after The soviet intervention In, afghanistan which led to The United states boycott of the 1980 olympics In. moscow