The German Empire consisted of 27 constituent territories, with most of them being ruled by royal families. This included 4 kingdoms, 6 grand duchies, 6 duchies (5 after 1876), 7 principalities, 3 free hanseatic cities, and 1 imperial territory. The German Confederation ended as a result of the Austro-Prussian War of 1866 between the constituent Confederation entities of the Austrian Empire and its allies on one side and the Kingdom of Prussia and its allies on the other.
During its 47 years of existence, the German Empire operated as an industrial, technological, and scientific giant, gaining more Nobel Prizes in science than Britain, France, Russia, and the United States combined. The German Confederation ended as a result of the Austro-Prussian War of 1866 between the constituent Confederation entities of the Austrian Empire and its allies on one side and the Kingdom of Prussia and its allies on the other.
Hitler, Adolf (1889-1945), ruled Germany as dictator from 1933 to 1945. He turned Germany into a powerful war machine and provoked World War II in 1939. Hitler's forces conquered most of Europe before they were defeated in 1945. His forces invaded Poland in 1939. Then Great Britain, France, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and Canada declared war on Germany, and World War II began. Hitler had a clear vision of what he wanted, and he had the daring to pursue it.
The founding of the German Empire was something in the making since the end of the Thirty Years War. After being defeated at the hands of France and Sweden in 1648, Germany became even more fractured. Religion ceased to be as large an issue as before, and not much authority was put into the emperor afterwards. However, if the German Empire had continued, it would probably have surpassed Britain and almost matched that of the US. Stay at the Top. From 1871 to 1914, Germany's population rose by a third to 65 million.
Most of Germany's colonies were occupied by its enemies in the first weeks of World War I, German South-West Africa surrendered in 1915, Kamerun in 1916 and German East Africa only in 1918 by end of the war. Germany's colonial empire was officially confiscated with the Treaty of Versailles after her defeat in the war. Until their 1871 unification, the German states had not concentrated on the development of a navy, and this essentially had precluded German participation in earlier imperialist scrambles for remote colonial territory – the so-called place in the sun . Germany seemed destined to play catch-up.
On January 18th, 1871, much to the dislike of many German kings (Prussia's included), Wilhelm I was declared the first Kaiser of Germany. Government, Military, Territory, and Economy. Germany's government had a parliament (the Reichstag and Bundesrat), much like that of England. However, if the German Empire had continued, it would probably have surpassed Britain and almost matched that of the US. Stay at the Top. From 1871 to 1914, Germany's population rose by a third to 65 million.
Versailles, 1871 The new Emperor is on top of the steps. The figure in white stands proudly surveying what he has achieved. It is Bismarck. The Rise of German Nationalism 1830s-1870s The Unification of Germany This is a map of the German Confederation, which was established in 1815 and survived until 1867. Allies of nationalism The educated middle-class had become important to German society. They were the doctors, lawyers and business men, who helped make the German states prosperous.
Industry had been growing rapidly before unity, but from 1871 to 1914 German industries were jumping by leaps and bounds. Prior to WWI, Germany was out producing steel production of the entire British Empire, previously the largest steel producing nation. However, if the German Empire had continued, it would probably have surpassed Britain and almost matched that of the US. Stay at the Top. From 1871 to 1914, Germany's population rose by a third to 65 million.
Proclaiming the German Empire at Versailles in early 1871, Wilhelm and Bismarck effectively united the country. In the resulting Treaty of Frankfurt which ended the war, France was forced to cede Alsace and Lorraine to Germany. The loss of this territory badly stung the French and was a motivating factor in 1914. 