watch this video on the App. The active volcano island of Krakatoa lies between the islands of Java and Sumatra in the Sundra Strait, and is one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world. New to Old. 
WARNING: Mount Krakatoa is an active volcano. The Centre of Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation (ESDM), the Indonesian authority that watches over volcanic activities, shows the status of volcanoes above normal (Status Gunungapi Diatas Normal) on their website. The eruption of Mount Krakatoa in 1883 was one of the most violent volcanic events on record. A huge explosion (150 megatons of TNT) occurred as seawater hit hot magma and turned instantly to steam. The blast was heard over 4,000 km away in Australia and India.
Best Answer: It is active. After the eruption of Krakatoa in 1883 a new volcano, Anak Krakatau (Child of Krakatoa), began growing. It broke the surface of the ocean in 1927 and, by 2005, had reached a height of 300 meters above sea level. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Krakatoa#Th... .
Mount Vesuvius is still considered active because recently it's been reported that local volcano experts in Pompeii have detected activity within mt Vesuvius. all bird and ani … mal life on the mountain have fled. It is four years overdue to blow, and history maintains a pattern exists of an eruption every 1,000 years. 
Caldera. Krakatau (Krakatoa) Volcano lies in Sunda Strait between Sumatra and Java Islands. It belongs to Lampung Province. Krakatau Volcanic Complex consists of Rakata, Sertung, Panjang and Anak Krakatau Islands. Anak Krakatau is the currently active centre at the volcano and emerged from the sea in 1930. Krakatau became famous after the paroxysmal eruption on August 27, 1883. The volcano erupted more than 18 cubic km of ash to a height of 80 km, and produced a tsunami as high as 30 m along the west coast of Banten and south coast of Lampung.
Krakatoa (Indonesian: Krakatau) was a volcanic island made of lava in the Sunda Strait between the islands of Java and Sumatra in Indonesia. The name is used for the island group, the main island (also called Rakata), and the volcano as a whole. The volcano exploded in 1883, killing 36,417 people. 
Category: Krakatau erupted in 1883, in one of the largest eruptions in recent time. Krakatau is an island volcano along the Indonesian arc, between the much larger islands of Sumatra and Java (each of which has many volcanoes also along the arc). Krakatau is still active. The presently-active vent has formed a small island in the middle of the ocean-filled caldera that developed during the famous big eruption of 1883. The island is called Anak Krakatau, which means child-of-Krakatau.
Krakatoa (Gunung Krakatau) is a volcanic island in the Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra in Indonesia. It is part of Lampung province in Sumatra. The eruption of Mount Krakatoa in 1883 was one of the most violent volcanic events on record. A huge explosion (150 megatons of TNT) occurred as seawater hit hot magma and turned instantly to steam. The blast was heard over 4,000 km away in Australia and India.
Mount Krakatoa is a volcanic island found in Indonesia. Its most famous eruption in 1883 is one of the biggest in recorded history. You guessed it right; Krakatoa belongs to the Pacific Ring of Fire, the volatile horseshoe-shaped area bordering the Pacific Ocean. Illustration of the Krakatoa eruption. Although the 1883 eruption destroyed more than 60% of the volcanic island, a submarine eruption in 1927 produced a new island in its stead. This volcano is aptly called Anak Krakatau, which is Indonesian for “Child of Krakatoa”.
It is estimated that more than 36,000 people died. Many died as a result of thermal injury from the blasts and many more were victims of the tsunamis that followed the collapse of the volcano into the caldera below sea level. The island of Krakatau (Krakatoa) is in the Sunda Strait between Java and Sumatra. It is part of the Indonesian Island Arc. Volcanic activity is due to subduction of the Indo-Australian tectonic plate as it moves northward towards mainland Asia. The island is about 3 miles wide and 5.5 miles long (9 by 5 kilometers). 