mi·cro·fil·a·ment. n. Any of the minute fibers containing actin that are located throughout the cytoplasm of cells, maintain structural integrity of the cell, and assist with movement of cellular structures. 
Microfilament. Definition. noun, plural: microfilaments. A thin, helical, single-stranded filament of the cytoskeleton found in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells, composed of actin subunits, and functions primarily in maintaining the structural integrity of a cell and cell movements. Word origin: Gk: comb. form repr. mīkros, mīkrós + SMALL nl, fīlāmentum. equiv TO ll(fīlā) , re to wind, thread. Spin related: forms (microfilamentous). Adjective please contribute to this, project if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this. page
MICROFILAMENTS Microfilaments-Microfilaments are solid rods made of globular proteins called actin. These filaments are primarily structural in function and are an important component of the cytoskeleton. Microfilaments can also carry out cellular movements including gliding, contraction, and cytokinesis. Microfilaments-Microfilaments are solid rods made of globular proteins called actin. These filaments are primarily structural in function and are an important component of the cytoskeleton.
edit Functions of Microfilaments. 1  Microfilaments form the dynamic cytoskeleton, which gives structural support to cells and links the interior of the cell with the surroundings to convey information about the external environment. 2  Microfilaments provide cell motility. 3  e.g., Filopodia, Lamellipodia. 
Moving the Cell. Microfilaments, another component of the cytoskeleton, are filamentous proteins that are spread throughout the cell. They have a minor role in supporting the shape of the cell and in organizing its insides, but they have a major role in cellular movements. 
Main Function of Microfilaments. Microfilaments or actin filaments are supposed to be the thinnest filaments present in the cytoskeleton in cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells. These are the linear polymer of actin filaments and mostly flexible, strong and resist buckling due to the multi-piconewton compressive forces. 
1 are built by the assembly of dimers of alpha tubulin and beta tubulin; 2  are found in both animal and plant cells. 3  In plant cells, microtubules are created at many sites scattered through the cell. 4  In animal cells, the microtubules originate at the centrosome. Index to this page. 1  Actin Filaments. 2  Intermediate Filaments. 3  Microtubules. 4  establishing cell shape. 5  providing mechanical strength. 6  locomotion. 7  chromosome separation in mitosis and meiosis. 8  intracellular transport of organelles. 9  Actin filaments (also called microfilaments). 10  Intermediate filaments and. 11  Microtubules.1  are straight, hollow cylinders whose wall is made up of a ring of 13 protofilaments; 2  have a diameter of about 25 nm; 3  are variable in length but can grow 1000 times as long as they are wide; 4  are built by the assembly of dimers of alpha tubulin and beta tubulin; 5
10 most extreme places on Earth. Microfilaments are found inside cells and are tiny strands made of a protein called actin. They are sometimes referred to as actin filaments, or thin filaments, and they help support the structure of the cell, or cytoskeleton. 