Chicken Pox and Pregnancy. When you become pregnant, you want to do everything you can to stay healthy. Unfortunately, it is sometimes impossible to protect yourself from every illness out there. Chicken pox is a highly contagious viral infection that can be very serious. Fortunately, there are ways to protect you and your baby if you are at risk for chicken pox. Chicken pox is a viral infection also called varicella. It is accompanied by a rash, which appears as small reddish spots or pimples. A fever and body aches usually occur before the rash appears.
1 If you have not had chicken pox before and are pregnant, you may receive the shot of zoster immune globulin (ZIG) when you come in contact with someone who has chicken pox. 2  ZIG must be given within 4 days of first exposure. 3  This is only given if you do not already have the antibodies against chicken pox. Chicken pox is a viral infection also called varicella. It is accompanied by a rash, which appears as small reddish spots or pimples. A fever and body aches usually occur before the rash appears.
Most adults in the UK have had chickenpox as a child, and so are immune to it. However, about 3 in 1,000 pregnant women develop chickenpox. If you have chickenpox when pregnant, you are likely to make a full recovery. However, serious complications occur in a small number of cases. 
Someone is at risk if they have never been vaccinated or had chickenpox. Chickenpox causes a blister-like rash, itching, tiredness, and fever. This leaves a person feeling very sick and uncomfortable, and may cause sick people to miss a week or more of school or work. Chickenpox can be serious. Although rare, you can get chickenpox if you have been vaccinated. However, the symptoms are usually very mild, meaning fewer blisters, little or no fever, and quicker recovery. Also, when you get vaccinated, you protect others in your community. This is especially important for people who cannot get
According to the AAP, the best way to protect your baby from chickenpox during the first year of life is to keep him away from children with the active disease. Once he reaches 12 to 15 months, he can have the first dose of the chickenpox vaccine. A second dose is recommended between ages 4 and 6 years. Also, there are other rashes that parents might think are chickenpox but really aren't. Your child's doc will want to be sure what your baby has really is chickenpox and not some other type of illness. He'll also want to make sure that if it is chickenpox there are no signs of complications.
Most children will get chickenpox when they are young and it is usually a mild illness. Once your baby has caught the virus, it can take between 10 days and 21 days for symptoms to show. Your baby will then be infectious from about two days before the rash appears until all the spots have dried up. Once you’ve had chickenpox, you won’t get it again. But as adults, we can carry the herpes virus that causes chickenpox in our bodies. Sometimes, if we become a bit run-down, the virus will be triggered, and we’ll have symptoms. These will appear as a different form of the virus, known as shingles.
Rarely, adults get chickenpox even though they've already had it. When the chickenpox virus in an adult becomes active again, the illness that results is called shingles.. People catch shingles from their own chickenpox virus. People with shingles can spread chickenpox to people who have not had chickenpox. 
Vaccination, or getting a shot, is the best way to protect against chickenpox. Children, adolescents, and adults should have two doses of chickenpox vaccine. 1  Children should get their first dose at 12 to 15 months old and the second at 4 to 6 years old. 2  Children who didn’t get the vaccine can still catch up. A rash is often the first sign of chickenpox in children. Adults may feel tired and have a fever 1 to 2 days before getting a rash. The rash appears as red or discolored raised spots that turn into itchy, fluid-filled blisters.
Chances are good that no harm would come to your baby, but timing is a factor. If you get chicken pox during the first or second trimester of pregnancy, there's a slight risk (probably less than 2 percent overall) that your baby will get something called congenital varicella syndrome (CVS). The risk is highest if you're infected between 13 and 20 weeks' gestation
Although you are less likely to get shingles if you have had them, there is still a chance that you could, so the shingles vaccine can still be of benefit. Up to 5 of every 100 people will get shingles more than once. 