The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) administers SNAP at the Federal level through its Food and Nutrition Service (FNS). In 2008, the U.S. Congress changed the name of the Food Stamp Program to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). This new name better reflects the goal of the program: to help provide healthy food to low-income families with children and vulnerable adults. Eligibility is based on your household’s resources, income and other requirements such as residence, citizenship or qualified non-citizen status, and cooperation with the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Employment & Training program.
If you have one person in your household, you may qualify for assistance if your net monthly income is below $903. If you have two people, you net monthly income must be below $1,215. Three people must be under $1,526. Four people should be under $.1,838 Five must be $2,150. If you have one person in your household, you may qualify for assistance if your gross monthly income is below $1,174. If you have two people, you gross monthly income must be below $1,579. Three people must be under $1,984. Four people should be under $2,389. Five must be $2,794.
The Food Stamp Program: Income and Deductions. To qualify for food stamps, you must have less income than the food stamp income limits. Some income does not count. More ». The Cash Assistance Program and Child Support. There are many children who are not getting support from both parents. 
Arizona SNAP eligibility is greatly determined by a strict income requirements test and number of people living in your household. These tests take into consideration both the gross monthly income and net monthly income. The gross is considered 130 percent of poverty and the net, 100 percent of poverty. A family of six making $3,200.00 per month with a net of $2,461.00 will receive almost three times the amount in food stamp benefits. However, people living with disabilities and the elderly do not follow this category, they have special requirements.
Arizona SNAP eligibility is greatly determined by a strict income requirements test and number of people living in your household. These tests take into consideration both the gross monthly income and net monthly income. The gross is considered 130 percent of poverty and the net, 100 percent of poverty. A family of six making $3,200.00 per month with a net of $2,461.00 will receive almost three times the amount in food stamp benefits. However, people living with disabilities and the elderly do not follow this category, they have special requirements.
For example a single family household can gross up to $1,174.00 per month with a net of $903 and still be eligible to receive food stamps. A family of six making $3,200.00 per month with a net of $2,461.00 will receive almost three times the amount in food stamp benefits. However, people living with disabilities and the elderly do not follow this category, they have special requirements.
Eligibility. To see if you might be eligible for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits, visit our pre-screening tool. For households in the 48 Contiguous States and the District of Columbia October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016.
Arizona operates the food stamp program under the Arizona Department of Economic Security. However, the program is now called Nutrition Assistance. In 2008, the U.S. Congress changed the name of the Food Stamp Program to the Supplemental Assistance Program (SNAP), although each state has an individual name. The Nutrition Assistance (NA) program in Alabama handles all of the food and nutrition needs of low income families in the state.
Food stamps or rather SNAP is readily available to residents of Arizona who meet the income requirements set forth by the state and by the Arizona Department of Economic Security (AZ DES). It used to be only applicable to single mothers and large low-income families but this is not the case anymore. A family of six making $3,200.00 per month with a net of $2,461.00 will receive almost three times the amount in food stamp benefits. However, people living with disabilities and the elderly do not follow this category, they have special requirements.