Answers. Best Answer: These are the answer I got from Wikipedia: A tendon is a tough band of fibrous connective tissue that usually connects muscle to bone and is capable of withstanding tension. A joint is the location at which two or more bones make contact. A ligament is a short band of tough fibrous dense regular connective tissue composed mainly of long, stringy collagen fibers. Ligaments connect bones to other bones to form a joint. 
Yes, The difference between ligaments and tendons are ligaments are BONE TO BONE. And the tendons are BONE TO MUSCLE. Ligaments are the tough tissue that attaches bones at j … oints and tendons are tough tissue also but attach the bone to muscle (or muscle to bone, vice versa). Answered. Ligaments and tendons share some similarities. They are both ways in which the body ties two structures together. They are both made up of similar tissue (mostly collage … n). Their main difference is in what they connect together.   Ligaments typically hold two bon
ligaments connect bone to bone, tendons connect muscle to bone and cartilage is the semi solid bones that are present at the places where they required. For example: our exter … nal ears, nose, between 2 joints cartilage is present. Ligaments and tendons share some similarities. They are both ways in which the body ties two structures together. They are both made up of similar tissue (mostly collage … n). Their main difference is in what they connect together.   Ligaments typically hold two bon
Two of these structures that aid in movement and attachment of bone to other structures are ligaments and tendons. People do sometimes confuse these words. So for the convenience of everyone, we shall differentiate the two words. A ligament is a fibrous structure that connects bone to bone. Tendons, on the other hand, hold bones to muscles. That is actually the main difference. Ligaments are actually fibrous structures which are strong and lengthy which in turn hold both of the bones together well. 
Ligaments are strong rope like structures that connect the joints and hold organs in place. They hold the bones together and also allow limited movements of the bones across the joint. Ligaments are made up of type I (90%) and III (10%) collagen Tendons attach muscles to bones or to other body parts. Ligaments and tendons share some similarities. They are both ways in which the body ties two structures together. They are both made up of similar tissue (mostly collage … n). Their main difference is in what they connect together.   Ligaments typically hold two bon
Overview. Ligaments and tendons are part of the musculoskeletal system, with ligaments attaching bones to bones and tendons muscles to bones.They each serve very important functions to the joints and bones. Ligaments and tendons are made of dense layered collagen fibers, called fibrous connective tissue. Ligaments and tendons are part of the musculoskeletal system, with ligaments attaching bones to bones and tendons muscles to bones.They each serve very important functions to the joints and bones
• Tendon connects the end of a muscle to any place of the bone, whereas ligaments always connect bones at their joints. • There is only one tendon for a particular muscle at one end while there are few ligaments connecting two bones at a joint. • Tendons have more collagens than ligaments do. Posted on. by Naveen. Tendon vs Ligament. Tendons and ligaments are vital parts of the skeletal and muscular systems of animals, especially in vertebrates. Without tendons and ligaments, neither the bones nor muscles would have been connected.
On one level, there is not much difference organically between a ligament and a tendon. Both are formed from chains of collagen cells produced by proteins stored in the body. This is where the similarity stops, however. A ligament acts much like a shock absorber and connects bone to bone. Ad. One difference between a ligament and a tendon injury is the type of surgery which may be required. A torn tendon may cause the entire attached muscle group to fail.