Bee hives are built within existing structures. The shell you are refering to is on a nest. Hornets, wasp, and some bees make nest and they are made of paper. Insects are capable of making their own paper from plant material. 
Save. Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of Don Hankins. Bees have been kept for honey, wax and other products of the hive for thousands of years. Over that time, changes in the way bees are kept have meant changes in the materials people use to make beehives. Beekeeping History. Originally, people kept bees in hollowed-out logs or clay pots, and, later, in the middle ages, in large, bell-shaped baskets called skeps or wooden boxes. Today, the Langstroth hive is the design of choice for hive construction.
A beehive can be in a hollow tree, an empty box, an old drum or the wall of a house. European Honey Bees live in about 40 liters or a box about 20 inches by 16 inches by 9 inches. Africanized Honey Bees are not as selective but that is another story. Man-made beehives are in or part of an apiary. The Latin name for bees is Apis mellifera. Beehives are made of several rows of honeycomb. Honeycomb is the characteristic six-sided, hexagonal structure made of beeswax. Honeycomb holds the nectar, honey, pollen and brood (eggs, larvae, pupae) or young baby bees.
The hexagonal cells of the honeycomb are used to house larvae and other brood, as well as to store honey, nectar and pollen. When beekeepers extract honey from hives, the comb is easily left intact, though beekeepers sell honey comb as well. Honey Bee Behavior. Some hives develop broods which become dark in color over time because of cocoon tracks and travel stains. Other honey bee hives remain light in color. Wild honey bees make hives in rock crevices, hollow trees and other areas that scout bees believe are appropriate for their colony.
2. beehive-a structure that provides a natural habitation for bees; as in a hollow tree. hive. honeycomb-a structure of small hexagonal cells constructed from beeswax by bees and used to store honey and larvae. nest-a structure in which animals lay eggs or give birth to their young. 
Worker honey bees make hives to store honey and feed themselves throughout winter when they cannot go outdoors to forage for food. Honey bee hives are made of six-sided tubes, which are the shapes for optimal honey production because they require less wax and can hold more honey. Some hives develop broods which become dark in color over time because of cocoon tracks and travel stains. Other honey bee hives remain light in color. Wild honey bees make hives in rock crevices, hollow trees and other areas that scout bees believe are appropriate for their colony. Similar to the habits of domesticated honey bees, they construct hives by chewing wax until it becomes soft, then bonding large quantities of wax into the cells of a honeycomb
Bees attached their wax combs to the hive's roof and walls, just like they do in wild hives. Today we refer to these types of hives as fixed-comb hives. Skeps were made from grass straw, and often had sticks inside to provide support for the honey combs. This is a kind of queen excluder that relied on the behavior of bees instead of a physical barrier. Today, we know that pheromones influence organization within a bee hive Some skeps and box hives from the 1800's also had a second container, or super for the bees to store honey such as the one at right.
Confidence votes 69.6K. Wordsmith, world-builder, author. In the wild, bees make their hives inside hollow trees or caves. Domestic bees live in hives made by humans, usually of wood or straw. I believe you are asking how the honeycomb is made, and that is something the bees make themselves. Young worker bees make the wax in special glands on the bottom side of their abdomens. It forms thin scales on the abdomen, and the bees chew that until it is pliable and use it to form honeycomb.
Natural beehives are naturally occurring structures occupied by honeybee colonies, such as hollowed-out trees, while domesticated honeybees live in man-made beehives, often in an apiary. These man-made structures are typically referred to as beehives. Several species of Apis live in hives, but only the western honey bee (Apis mellifera) and the eastern honey bee (Apis cerana) are domesticated by humans. A natural beehive is comparable to a bird's nest built with a purpose to protect the dweller. The beehive's internal structure is a densely packed group of hexagonal cells made of beeswax, called a honeycomb. The bees use the cells to store food (honey and pollen) and to house the brood (eggs, larvae, and pupae). 
A Langstroth hive is a hive made up of stacked boxes of various depths, a floor, inner cover and roof. Within each box are wooden frames in which the bees build their comb. It is the most common hive in North America and Australia. 