Planning a kitchen island's overhang requires looking at kitchen activities. While an overhang can be used as an eating bar, it can also serve as a food prep counter. Whatever width you allow for the overhang, try to leave 4 feet between the overhang and the closest counter to the island.
A kitchen island or a countertop peninsula can double as an informal dining area. The usual countertop overhang is 1.5 inches over the front edge of the base cabinet. When using the countertop as a dining area, this overhang will not be enough to allow you to sit close enough to the countertop to dine in comfort.
The standard overhang of an island countertop -- on the side designed to sit at and tuck stools underneath -- is 12 inches. If you plan to extend the counter farther, you need to add supports such as legs, or wood corbels or metal L-brackets that extend half the overhang’s distance.
Hanging Out on an Island. The standard overhang of an island countertop -- on the side designed to sit at and tuck stools underneath -- is 12 inches. If you plan to extend the counter farther, you need to add supports such as legs, or wood corbels or metal L-brackets that extend half the overhang’s distance.
When choosing a stone surface for your countertops, you will need to determine how much of an overhang you desire. Granite-Tops' standard overhang is approximately 1 1/2. This provides a slight lip that extends beyond the front of your cabinets.
A typical countertop overhang extends 1 to 1 1/2 inches from the cabinet bases, not the doors. The extension helps keep spills and crumbs from finding their way into the drawers and cupboards below. It also completes the counter-cupboard-toe-kick contour that makes standing at the countertop more comfortable.
We have a 14 overhang on our counter-height island and it works but it's a bit tight. You can reduce the depth of your island base cabinets (ours are 18) to accommodate more seating space in a narrow kitchen. I disagree with the author that a dual height island is more flexible.