They also both lack the ethereal oils (and thus the primative odor that are present in most other basal angiosperm lineages. Although most basal angiosperm families aren't represented in central PA, they contain most of the variation in floral structure and arrangement within flowering plants. Purple denotes orders containing families covered in class; green denotes orders photographically represented but not covered in Biology 414. Interesting stuff: Lauraceae are one of the largest basal angiosperm families and are common in tropical forests. One genus, Cassytha, is parasitic and viney, strongly resembling members of the genus Cuscuta (Convolvulaceae: in Asterids) in a striking case of convergent evolution.
The basal angiosperms are only a few hundred species, compared with hundreds of thousands of species of eudicots, monocots or magnoliids. They diverged from the ancestral angiosperm before the five groups comprising the mesangiosperms diverged from each other. The basal angiosperms are the flowering plants which diverged from the lineage leading to most flowering plants.
The basal angiosperms represent a grade that includes the following groups: Amborellaceae (discussed above), Nymphaeaceae (sensu APG II, 2003), Austrobaileyales, Ceratophyllaceae, Chloranthaceae, magnoliids, and monocots (although not all investigators choose to consider monocots basal angiosperms). 
Phylotaxis was probably spiral in the flowers of the ancestor of all angiosperms. Basal Angiosperms are not a monophyletic group; it is really a term that applies to all the collective, unrelated angiosperm lineages other than Monocots and Eudicots. Basal Angiosperms often show combinations of the following traits: numerous flattened (laminar) stamens with wide filaments; numerous tepals; many separate carpels; aromatic oils (giving them a primitive odor); and alternate, spirally arranged leaves.
In particular, the most basal angiosperms were called the ANITA grade which is made up of Amborella (a single species of shrub from New Caledonia), Nymphaeales (water lilies, together with some other aquatic plants) and Austrobaileyales (woody aromatic plants including star anise). The basal angiosperms are the flowering plants which diverged from the lineage leading to most flowering plants.
Basal Angiosperms often show combinations of the following traits: numerous flattened (laminar) stamens with wide filaments; numerous tepals; many separate carpels; aromatic oils (giving them a primative odor); and alternate, spirally arranged leaves. Interesting stuff: Lauraceae are one of the largest basal angiosperm families and are common in tropical forests. One genus, Cassytha, is parasitic and viney, strongly resembling members of the genus Cuscuta (Convolvulaceae: in Asterids) in a striking case of convergent evolution.
Basal Angiosperms Characteristics. The first plants to make an appearance on the face of the Earth were gymnosperms. They are said to have given rise to flowering plants about 245 to 202 million years ago. The first flowering plants that deviate from the initial angiosperms are called basal angiosperms. Delving into the evolutionary past of basal angiosperms, one finds few groups that branch off, before the true 'dicots' appear. The basal angiosperms consisted of the Ambroella, Nymphaeales, and Austrobaileyales. In the plant kingdom, the division Spermatophyta is divided into gymnosperms and angiosperms. The most diverse and dominant group of plants among the two are angiosperms, also referred to as magnoliophyta. In common terms, angiosperms are all flowering plants. They are distinguished from gymnosperms, by their ability to flower and produce seeds enclosed in fruits. There are a few other characteristics that are discussed in the following paragraph
About this site. Basal Angiosperms. Click on the tree to skip directly to a given order. The Basal Angiosperms are comprised of a separate lineages that branched off from other flowering plants at successive occasions before the appearance of the true dicots (Eudicots) in the fossil record. Basal Angiosperms often show combinations of the following traits: numerous flattened (laminar) stamens with wide filaments; numerous tepals; many separate carpels; aromatic oils (giving them a primitive odor); and alternate, spirally arranged leaves.