Facebook. So if you're friends with Sally, and I'm friends with Sally, when you go to my profile, you will see that Sally is a mutual friend, even if my friends list is private. Priel claims that using Facebook Graph Search you can tap into this Mutual Friends list even without being friends with either user.
Use people search on Facebook. Find people using people search and sign up to connect with them, see their full profiles, share photos and more. You can search for someone you know, or browse our directory. Search for people by name. Browse by name. Browse for your friends alphabetically by name. 
Part 2 of 3: Finding New Friends Online. 1. Use the search tool to look for people you may know from your other social groups. Look up the names of friends from school, work, or your weekly reading group to see if they are on Facebook and send them a friend request. 1 Everyone: Grants access to anyone on the Internet. 2  Friends: Grants access to only your friends on Facebook. 3  Friends of Friends: Grants access to your friends on Facebook, as well as their friends. 4  Custom: Grants access to a select audience of your choice, including specific people and networks.
Method 1 of 3: Using the Facebook Search Bar. 1. Navigate to the Facebook search bar. You will find this bar on the upper left-hand corner of your home page. Facebook’s search bar is designed to help you find a specific person, even if you don’t know their last name. This may narrow down your results. 4. Type your friends email address into the search bar. If you know your friends email address, you can also type this information directly into the search bar. 1  Their profile will only appear if the email address you typed is the one they have associated with their Facebook account.
Share. Create a link to a friend's Facebook profile right from your posts on Facebook. Tag friends in your posts so your other friends can click right through to them and see who you're talking about. Once you add a friend to your Facebook.com friends list you will always know when they are adding to their notes (blog) or updating their profile. Join Facebook.com groups to meet people like you or browse the profiles to find other new friends.
Simply create a new e-mail. Create a new Facebook profile (you can with a false name), it is enough to just add the person you want to see her friends. List of friends of the person you've added, you will receive, in the list of people you may know. I posted this, because the white hat does not care for this error. 
Method 2 of 3: Importing your Email Contacts into Facebook. 1. Click on Find Friends at the top-right of any Facebook session. The page will refresh and Facebook will generate a list of “People You May Know” based on the information in your profile. This may narrow down your results. 4. Type your friends email address into the search bar. If you know your friends email address, you can also type this information directly into the search bar. 1  Their profile will only appear if the email address you typed is the one they have associated with their Facebook account.
First, you'll need to connect your account to Facebook. To find your Facebook friends: Click Find Friends on your Pinterest home feed Or, go to your profile and click the gear button, then Find friends Click your friend's picture to follow them-you may need to scroll down to load more friends. Find out which of your Facebook or Twitter friends are on Pinterest. First, you'll need to connect your account to Facebook or Twitter. To find your Facebook or Twitter friends: Tap the person button in the bottom right corner. Tap the gear button, then Find Friends.