There are two types of body waves, P-waves and S-waves. Pressure waves or Primary waves (P-waves), are longitudinal waves that involve compression and rarefaction (expansion) in the direction that the wave is traveling. P-waves are the fastest waves in solids and are therefore the first waves to appear on a seismogram. 
A seismic wave that travels through the earth rather than across its surface. Body waves usually have smaller amplitudes and shorter wavelengths than surface waves and travel at higher speeds. (plural body waves). ( 1 geology) A seismic wave that travels through the earth's interior rather than over the surface. 2  P-waves and S-waves are examples of body waves. 3  Link/Cite.
Body waves. Body waves and surface waves are the two types of seismic waves formed during great earthquakes. P waves and S waves are called body waves because they travel through the body of the Earth. Surface waves. Love waves and Rayleigh waves travel only on the surface of the Earth and cause the most destruction. P waves travel through all parts of the Earth. S waves. S waves travel in a motion similar to a rope held tight at one end while the other end is lifted rapidly back and forth. S waves only travel through solids and do not travel through the liquid outer core
Body waves travel through the interior of the Earth. On the other hand, surface waves propagate only at the interface between two different media, like the interface between Earth and atmosphere (i.e. the surface of the Earth). Body waves are of two types: Primary waves (also called P-waves, or pressure waves) and Secondary waves (S-waves, or shear waves).
The two main types of waves are body waves and surface waves. Body waves can travel through the earth's inner layers, but surface waves can only move along the surface of the planet like ripples on water. Earthquakes radiate seismic energy as both body and surface waves. Body Waves. Traveling through the interior of the earth, body waves arrive before the surface waves emitted by an earthquake. These waves are of a higher frequency than surface waves. S Waves. The second type of body wave is the S wave or secondary wave, which is the second wave you feel in an earthquake. An S wave is slower than a P wave and can only move through solid rock, not through any liquid medium.
1 (geology) A seismic wave that travels through the earth's interior rather than over the surface. 2  P-waves and S-waves are examples of body waves. (plural body waves). ( 1 geology) A seismic wave that travels through the earth's interior rather than over the surface. 2  P-waves and S-waves are examples of body waves. 3  Link/Cite.
body wave. A body wave is a seismic wave that moves through the interior of the earth, as opposed to surface waves that travel near the earth's surface. P and S waves are body waves. Each type of wave shakes the ground in different ways. Share this page: 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 3  Google. 4  Email. 5  Earthquakes. 6  Latest Earthquakes.
Body waves inside the earth. Two kinds of waves are generated by earthquakes and travel through solid rock: In P or compressional waves, the vibration of the rock is in the direction of propagation. P waves travel fastest and are the first to arrive from the earthquake. In S or shear waves, rock oscillates perpendicular to the direction of wave propagation. 
n. A seismic wave that travels through the earth rather than across its surface. Body waves usually have smaller amplitudes and shorter wavelengths than surface waves and travel at higher speeds. 