Sandler was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1966, to Judy, a nursery school teacher, and Stanley Sandler (1935-2003), an electrical engineer. His family is Jewish, and descends from Russian immigrants on both sides. 
Mini Bio (1). Adam Richard Sandler was born September 9, 1966 in Brooklyn, New York, to Judith (Levine), a teacher at a nursery school, and Stanley Sandler, an electrical engineer. He is of Russian Jewish descent. 5' 9½ (1.77 m). Adam Richard Sandler was born September 9, 1966 in Brooklyn, New York, to Judith (Levine), a teacher at a nursery school, and Stanley Sandler, an electrical engineer.
He has been nominated for an Emmy and a Golden Globe and has won people's choice for 2011 for best Actor. Actually, he has done more than that; Adam Sandler has accomplished many things. Adam Sandler was born on September 9, 1966, in Brooklyn, New York, to electrical engineer, Stanley and nursery school teacher, Judy. 
A ridiculous amount of money in fact. Here's how Adam Sandler became Hollywood's most unlikely money-making machine. Adam Sandler was born on September 9, 1966 in Brooklyn, New York. He grew up in Manchester, New Hampshire, and then went on to attend New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. While in college, he began performing stand-up, and also appeared on The Cosby Show, playing one of Theo Huxtable's friends. 
Adam Sandler (born 9.9.1966). Adam Sandler is an American comedian and actor, as well as a film producer and screenwriter. Childhood: Adam Sandler was born to Judy and Stanley Sandler in the Brooklyn area of New York. His mother was a nursery teacher and his father was an electrical engineer. At the age of five, Adam and his family moved to Manchester, New Hampshire
The comedian and screen actor Adam Sandler was born into a Jewish working-class family in the New York borough of Brooklyn. His father, Stan, was an electrical engineer by trade, while his mother, Judy, was a full-time homemaker. 
Official Photos ». Adam Richard Sandler was born September 9, 1966 in Brooklyn, New York, to Judith (Levine), a teacher at a nursery school, and Stanley Alan Sandler, an electrical engineer. He is of Russian Jewish descent. 
Tweet. Adam Richard Sandler was born to Jewish parents on September 9, 1966, in Brooklyn, New York. Sandler was raised in Mancester, New Hampshire and attended Central High School. At age 17, Sandler took his first steps to becoming a comedian when took the stage at a comedy club in Boston, Masschusetts. 
Overview (4). Adam Richard Sandler was born September 9, 1966 in Brooklyn, New York, to Judith (Levine), a teacher at a nursery school, and Stanley Sandler, an electrical engineer. He is of Russian Jewish descent. 5' 9½ (1.77 m). Adam Richard Sandler was born September 9, 1966 in Brooklyn, New York, to Judith (Levine), a teacher at a nursery school, and Stanley Sandler, an electrical engineer.