An ignition coil, which is also known as a spark coil is an induction coil in an automobile’s ignition system. It transforms a storage battery’s 12 volts to the thousands of volts needed to spark the spark plugs.
The ignition coil, also referred to as a spark coil or spark plug coil, is a critical component in the electrical ignition system of your vehicle.
An ignition coil is a key component in a vehicle's ignition system. Generating thousands of volts, the ignition coil sends energy in the form of an electric spark to the spark plugs. This spark is what is used to ignite the air and fuel mixture and start the engine and keep it running.
Most automobiles use a 12 volt battery. The job of the ignition coil is to raise battery voltage high enough to push electrons across the spark plug gap. The low voltage found in the battery is called primary voltage, and the high voltage available to the spark plug is called secondary voltage.
Ignition Coil Theory. An ignition coil is really two separate coils of wire. They are known as the Primary (low voltage) coil and the Secondary (high voltage) coil. The primary coil is made up of several hundred windings of relatively thick wire (with thin insulation).
One of the coils is referred to as the primary coil, and the secondary coil wraps around it. There are hundreds of times more turns of wire on the secondary coil than on the primary coil. The battery's current runs through
Current will continue to flow through the coil, wires, and spark plugs, until all the electrical energy created by the ignition coil is used up. A modern ignition coil must create enough power to maintain current flow across the spark plug gap for between 1 and 1.5 milliseconds.
When a solid-state device in the electric ignition disrupts the current suddenly, it's referred to as breaker points. The breaker points are what make the coil work properly. When the circuit is broken abruptly, the magnetic field collapses and the secondary coil is overtaken by the powerful magnetic field.