About Barack Obama. The 44th president of the United States, author and the most popular person in the world, Barack Hussein Obama II, has an estimated net worth of $12.2 million. Excluding the $1.4 million in Nobel Prize money he donated to charity and his primary home. President Barack Obama’s base salary is $400,000 a year. He also has access to a $150,000 expense account as well as a $100,000 tax free travel account and $20,000 entertainment budget. Obama served three terms in the Illinois Senate, and is the first African American President of the United States.
The President of the United States of America (POTUS) is the elected head of state and head of government of the United States. The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces. The President of the United States is considered one of the world's most powerful people. 
Salary of the Vice-President. The Vice President of the United States is on call 24 hours a day while in office. In addition to normal, day-to-day office work, a Vice President also performs ceremonial duties at home and around the world. In addition, the Vice President is also president of the Senate.
Email. The annual list of who makes what at the White House is out. It’s been a requirement since 1995 for the White House to alert Congress of the salary of presidential staffers. So, let’s take a look what the 457 employees of President Obama (who makes an annual salary of $400,000) rake in every year. 
Other Benefits. Should the former president be survived by a spouse, she is granted a pension of $20,000 for life, as well as a free postage benefit. On top of all these pension payments and benefits come the expenses involved with the personal protection of each former president and his family. 
White House Salaries. Since 1995, the White House has been required to deliver a report to Congress listing the title and salary of every White House Office employee. Consistent with President Obama's commitment to transparency, this report is being publicly disclosed on our website as it is transmitted to Congress. 
Popular Skills for President. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. 
Senate approves salaries for Nigerian President, others. Lagos-Nigeria (PANA) -- The Nigerian President is to earn 1. 4 million naira and his deputy 1. 2 million naira as basic annual salaries, under a new remuneration package unveiled by the Senate, the upper legislative chamber Wednesday. 
Retirement Plan. In addition to an annual salary, U.S. presidents receive a retirement plan. After leaving office, the former president receives an annual pension that is equal to the current salary of a Cabinet member. As of 2011, the presidential pension is $196,700 per year. Salary and Expense Account. As of 2014, the president earns an annual salary of $400,000 per year, plus a $50,000 non-taxable expense account.