Lola may also be used as a short form of the unrelated German name Aloisia or the English name Lolicia. The name Lola is also common in Africa; in Nigeria, many feminine names are shortened to Lola, such as Temilola, Omolola or Damilola. Lola (Tajik for tulip) is also a feminine name in Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Afghanistan. It is derived from the Persian لاله or laleh. Lâleh the short Form lola has been rising in popularity in several countries in the past. decade
My name is Lolita, and through my childhood my name was shortened to Lola. I get so many comments about my name from Lola bunny to questions on whether I'm a transvestite or not. But the thing is, there aren't many Lola's out there and I like that. And my belief for the meaning of the name is Strong woman. I personally think this name is too overused and short, no offense to those Lolas out there. Plus, in the Philippines, this is a name meaning `Grandma`. Famous bearers are Denise Richards's daughter, Lola Rose, and Jennie Garth's daughter, Lola Ray, and Kelly Ripa's daughter, Lola. And Madonna nicknamed her daughter Lola (real name Lourdes)
Lola /lo-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LOH-lah. Short form of Dolores (Spanish) sorrows. Lola Montez was a racy and famous 19th-century courtesan. See also Lolita. How popular is Lola? Lola is a very prominent first name for females (#358 out of 4276, Top 8%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#68172 out of 150436, Top 45%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Lola for girls
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. A hot starbaby name -- chosen by Kelly Ripa, Chris Rock, Lisa Bonet, Denise Richards and Charlie Sheen, Carnie Wilson, and Annie Lennox, and used as the nickname of Madonna 's Lourdes -- Lola manages to be sexy without going over the top. In the past, Lola has been associated with such femmes fatale as the nineteenth century courtesan/dancer Lola Montez (born Elizabeth Rosanna), the Marlene Dietrich character Lola Lola in The Blue Angel and Jean Harlow 's in Bombshell. And it's the title of a great Kinks song--L-O-L-A Lola.
Lola is a common Spanish nickname for Dolores. It can also be a nickname for Charlotte. The word lola is also the word for grandmother in the Filipino language Tagalog, also in the Filipino language Visayan/Bisaya. I have heard of Ethiopian and Senegalese girls having the nickname Lola.
Lola is a feminine given name, a short form of the Spanish name Dolores, meaning  sorrows , a name taken from a title of the Virgin Mary: Nuestra Senora señora de Los, dolores Or Our lady Of. Sorrows lola may also be used as a short form of the Unrelated german Name aloisia or The english Name. lolicia Lola (Tajik for tulip) is also a feminine name in Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Afghanistan. It is derived from the Persian لاله or laleh. Lâleh the short Form lola has been rising in popularity in several countries in the past. decade
Tweet. [ 2 syll. lo-la, lol-a ] The baby girl name Lola is pronounced L OW-Lah in English or L OW-Laa in Spanish †. Lola's language of origin is Germanic, Spanish, Latin, and French. It is predominantly used in the Spanish, English, Hawaiian, and Italian languages. Lola is a familiar form of Carlotta (Italian, English, and Spanish) in the Spanish language. Lola is also a variant of Caroline (English, French, and Scandinavian) in the Spanish language. Lola is also a variant of Charlotte (French, German, Dutch, English, and Scandinavian) in the English language. Lola is also a familiar form of Dolores (English, German, and Spanish) in the English and Spanish
Spanish Meaning: The name Lola is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Lola is: Sorrow. From Maria de los Dolores (the Virgin Mary, or Mary of the Sorrows. American Meaning: The name Lola is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lola is: Sorrow. From Maria de los Dolores (the Virgin Mary, or Mary of the Sorrows.