Computed tomography (CT or CAT scan) is a noninvasive diagnostic imaging procedure that uses a combination of X-rays and computer technology to produce horizontal, or axial, images (often called slices) of the body. A CT scan shows detailed images of any part of the body, including the bones, muscles, fat, and organs. CT scans are more detailed than standard X-rays. In standard X-rays, a beam of energy is aimed at the body part being studied.
A CT scan of the brain may be performed to assess the brain for tumors and other lesions, injuries, intracranial bleeding, structural anomalies such as hydrocephalus, infections, brain function or other conditions, particularly when another type of examination such as X-rays or physical examination are not conclusive. A CT scan shows detailed images of any part of the body, including the bones, muscles, fat, and organs. CT scans are more detailed than standard X-rays. In standard X-rays, a beam of energy is aimed at the body part being studied.
Brain scans. To show abnormalities like a brain tumor, a contrast dye is often used. The dye is injected into a vein in the arm. A brain tumor generally soaks up more dye than normal brain tissue and shows up clearly on the scan; occasionally, a brain tumor does not absorb more dye. CT scans. CT scans are a type of X-ray that creates a three-dimensional picture of the head by scanning the head from multiple different angles. A computer combines these images into a detailed, cross-sectional view that shows abnormalities in the brain, or tumors.
A computed tomography (CT) scan uses X-rays to make pictures of the head and face. During the test, you will lie on a table that is attached to the CT scanner, which is a large doughnut-shaped machine. Your head will be positioned inside the scanner. The CT scanner sends X-rays through the head. Why It Is Done. A CT scan of the head is done to: 1  Find the cause of symptoms, such as confusion, paralysis, numbness, vision problems, vertigo, or headaches, that might mean a brain injury, a brain tumor, a ruptured aneurysm, or bleeding inside the head. 2  Look for problems of the middle ear bones and the auditory nerve
A computed tomography (CT) scan is a noninvasive diagnostic test that uses x-rays and a computer to create images of the body. It allows your doctor to view your spine or brain in slices, as if it were sliced layer-by-layer and a picture taken of each slice. Other detailed cross sections can be taken of the brain, vessels of the brain, neck, shoulders, spine, discs, spinal cord, and vessels of the spine. A CT scan can help your doctor diagnose many conditions including: 1  brain damage after a head injury. 2  brain tumors. 3  ruptured or leaking aneurysms.
A cranial CT scan of the head is a diagnostic tool used to create detailed pictures of the skull, brain, paranasal sinuses, and eye sockets. CT stands for “computed tomography,” but is known by a variety of names, including brain scan, head scan, skull scan, paranasal sinus scan, and CAT scan. 
The MRI does not use x-ray or iodine dye. Special CT scans are done to study the paranasal sinuses. This is useful if sinusitis is suspected. A typical series of CT scans for the sinuses use less x-ray radiation than a standard complete set of x-rays. However, a CT scan of the sinuses does not show any brain tissue. Most CT scans of the head do not .include all of the sinuses. For most problems in the brain that cause headache, MRI scans are more sensitive. For the detection of a recent brain hemorrhage or for sinus disease, CT is more helpful
CT scans of the brain can provide more detailed information about brain tissue and brain structures than standard X-rays of the head, thus providing more information related to injuries and/or diseases of the brain. A CT scan shows detailed images of any part of the body, including the bones, muscles, fat, and organs. CT scans are more detailed than standard X-rays. In standard X-rays, a beam of energy is aimed at the body part being studied.
A CT scan of the head can give some information about the eyes, facial bones, air-filled cavities (sinuses) within the bones around the nose, and the inner ear. If these areas are of concern, a specific CT scan of the area is usually done. A CT scan of the head may be used to evaluate headaches. Why It Is Done. A CT scan of the head is done to: 1  Find the cause of symptoms, such as confusion, paralysis, numbness, vision problems, vertigo, or headaches, that might mean a brain injury, a brain tumor, a ruptured aneurysm, or bleeding inside the head. 2  Look for problems of the middle ear bones and the auditory nerve