thefurnaceroom/E+/Getty Images. REED Surname Meaning & Origin: The Reed surname has a number of possible derivations: 1) A descriptive name or nickname signifying a person with red hair or a ruddy complexion, deriving from the Old English read meaning red.. 2) A topographical surname for someone who lived in a clearing in woodland, deriving from the Olde English ried, ryd. 
This surname Stroop could originate from the following origins below. 1. Dutch and German: from Middle Dutch, Middle Low German stropen, a nickname. See related links below f … or more information. Now, there is of English origin, but the English surname Stroop is very rare. 2. English (Lancashire, Yorkshire, Nottinghamshire): Origin uncertain and rare. Perhaps a variant of English: Stopp, Stripp, or perhaps a variant of Irish surname Scroope. Perhaps the name Straum is a variant spelling of Strom, also of Swedish and Norwegian origin, meaning, current. If so, then perhaps the name Straumann/Stroman could mean a man living by a stream/river. Overall, it is uncertain how Straumann came to being from surname Strom.
1 Plaques and Frames emphasing the Biggs family crest. 2  Surname Histories for the name Biggs. 3  Symbolism for the Biggs family crest. 4  Travel Mugs emphasing the family crest for the name Biggs. 1 Mouse pads with a Biggs coat of arms. 2  New Products for the Biggs family crest. 3  Packages displaying the Biggs family crest. 4  Plaques and Frames emphasing the Biggs family crest. 5  Surname Histories for the name Biggs. 6
The first recorded spelling of the family name is believed to be that of Aelric Bigga, in the charters known as the Old Bynames register, and dated 1036 a.d. The king on the throne of England at the time was Harold 1st (1035 - 1040). Like the famous Little John of Robin Hood fame, who was according to legend, the largest man in the band of Merry men, the name may well have been a nickname, for a small person! Be that as it may the name is well recorded in several different parts of England.
What does my surname mean?. If you have ever asked this question and wondered about the origin of your last name, you will find your surname may answer one of the questions of where your ancestors lived, or what they did for a living, or what was their personality like, or how they looked many hundreds of years ago.
Patronymic, matronymic, or ancestral. Patronymic surnames (those that come from a male given name) include Benson (“the son of Ben”), Davis, Dawson, Evans, Harris, Harrison, Jackson, Jones (Welsh for John), Nicholson, Richardson, Robinson, Rogers, Simpson, Stephenson, Thompson, Watson, and Wilson. Enter your last name to learn its meaning and origin. This kind of name also gave a clue about whom a servant worked for. Someone named Vickers might have been a servant to Mr. Vicker, and someone named Williams might either have served a William or been adopted by him.
The English surname Biggs appears to be of nickname origin, being one of those names derived from a personal or physical characteristic of the original bearer. The name evolved from the Middle English word bigge, meaning large, stout, strong. Notable bearers of this surname include E.Power Biggs (b. 1906), the English organist, Hermann Michael Biggs (1859-1923), the American physician and public health administrator and Alfred Barratt Biggs the Australian Physicist.
1 Ceramics featuring the family crest for the surname Biggs. 2  Coat of Arms for the name Biggs. 3  Digital Products proudly displaying the Biggs family crest. 4  Family Crest for the name Biggs. 5  Family Tree displaying the family crest for the name Biggs. 6  Hand Painted Plaques with a Biggs family crest. 1 Mouse pads with a Biggs coat of arms. 2  New Products for the Biggs family crest. 3  Packages displaying the Biggs family crest. 4  Plaques and Frames emphasing the Biggs family crest. 5  Surname Histories for the name Biggs. 6  Symbolism
This unusual surname recorded as Bigg, Bigge, Biggs, and Bigges, is of Olde English pre 7th century origins. It derives from the ancient word bigga meaning large, and as such was both an original baptismal name, and later in the medieval period, either a nickname surname, or possibly one from a location. Like the famous Little John of Robin Hood fame, who was according to legend, the largest man in the band of Merry men, the name may well have been a nickname, for a small person! Be that as it may the name is well recorded in several different parts of England.
A surname or family name is a name added to a given name. In many cases, a surname is a family name and many dictionaries define surname as a synonym of family name.. In the western hemisphere, it is commonly synonymous with last name because it is usually placed at the end of a person's given name. In most Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking countries, two or more last names (or surnames) may be used. In China, Japan, Korea, Vietnam, Madagascar, Hungary, Nepal, parts of India and in many other East Asian countries, the family name is placed before