Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: nos·tal·gia 1. a wistful desire to return in thought or in fact to a former time in one's life, to one's home or homeland, or to one's family and friends; a sentimental yearning for the happiness of a former place or time: a nostalgia for his college days. 2. something that elicits or displays nostalgia. Like it would make you want to revisit a certain time in a person's life. Say if a movie took place in the 50s, and an older adult watched it. That adult would consider the movie nostalgic because they fondly looked back at the memories of those days in the 50s. I hope that makes sense; I explained it the best I could.
· just now. Report Abuse. a wistful desire to return in thought or in fact to a former time in one's life, to one's home or homeland, or to one's family and friends; a sentimental yearning for the happiness of a former place or time: a nostalgia for his college days. analicia_d82 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
It usually refers to movies, books, TV shows, etc. It's an adjective meaning that something takes a person back in time almost. Like it would make you want to revisit a certain time in a person's life. Say if a movie took place in the 50s, and an older adult watched it. That adult would consider the movie nostalgic because they fondly looked back at the memories of those days in the 50s. I hope that makes sense; I explained it the best I could.
Report Abuse. It usually refers to movies, books, TV shows, etc. It's an adjective meaning that something takes a person back in time almost. Like it would make you want to revisit a certain time in a person's life. Say if a movie took place in the 50s, and an older adult watched it. That adult would consider the movie nostalgic because they fondly looked back at the memories of those days in the 50s. I hope that makes sense; I explained it the best I could.
Best Answer: Feeling a sense of loss for times past that you feel were better, in some way, than the present time. It can also mean homesickness, especially when you're in a foreign land with different customs and traditions. For example: if you are used to a cold and snowy Christmas you would probably feel a sense of nostalgia if you came here, to Australia, where it's hot and sunny in December. Source(s): Elizabeth · 7 years ago.
Nostalgia in its most common form was responsible for the old front desk of The Beverly Hills Hotel (from 1942 to 1979) being made into a bar. Nostalgia is a sentimentality for the past, typically for a period or place with happy personal associations. In the eighteenth century, scientists were looking for a locus of nostalgia, a nostalgic bone. By the 1850s nostalgia was losing its status as a particular disease and coming to be seen rather as a symptom or stage of a pathological process.
nostalgia is a sentimental recollection; a mixed feeling of happiness, sadness, and longing, when recalling a person, place or event from the past, or just the past. Homesickness is also a form of nostalgia. It can also mean homesickness, especially when you're in a foreign land with different customs and traditions. For example: if you are used to a cold and snowy Christmas you would probably feel a sense of nostalgia if you came here, to Australia, where it's hot and sunny in December. Source(s): Elizabeth · 7 years ago.
An endless cycle of longing for the past. Here is a story about nostalgia. Once upon a time, a man was born in 1947. His childhood in the 50s wasn't that good, but when he grew older, he started to hate anything past December 31 1959. Several years later, he gave birth th a child in 1967, who became nostalgic for the 70s, and said anything past December 31 1979 was awful, while his father hated the 70s because of nostalgia
RG-vc/iStock/Getty Images. Nostalgic is a pleasurable yet sad feeling a person gets when reminiscing about things that happened in the past, and wishes it could be experienced again. Nostalgic can be used as an adjective or noun. Johannes Hofer coined the word nostalgia in the 17th century as a disease suffered by Swiss soldiers who had a longing for a specific place or thing.
Nostalgia helps increase one's self-esteem and meaning in life by buffering threats to well-being and also by initiating a desire to deal with problems or stress. Routledge (2011) and colleagues found that nostalgia correlates positively with one's sense of meaning in life. In the eighteenth century, scientists were looking for a locus of nostalgia, a nostalgic bone. By the 1850s nostalgia was losing its status as a particular disease and coming to be seen rather as a symptom or stage of a pathological process.