A pants’ type determines when and where it will be worn. For example, linen slacks are much more formal than white jeans. The best time to wear white pants is also determined by the event, the season, what they will be paired with, undergarments, location and weather. Event. White is often worn during times of celebration, such as a wedding. A day at the beach is also a great occasion for wearing white pants. Fabric determines how appropriate the pants are to a certain event. White silk pants can be a stylish substitute for a cocktail dress, for example.
When it comes to summer, white is always the right color. White pants are quite stylish, and they go great with all colors and prints. Check out this summer’s hottest outfits and if you still don’t have a pair of white pants, these outfits will convince you to go and get them. Wear them to a party, to work or when you are taking a walk by the seaside. 1  Share.
Yeah, that rule is lame and way outdated. It’s 2014, and you can wear white jeans whenever your little heart desires, whether it’s a 90 degree summer day, or a 20 degree snowstorm in the middle of January. 9. In the fall or winter, wear your white pants with a chunky sweater and brown boots. Source. 10. Go for high-waist white jeans, and add a crop top for an on-trend ensemble.
Pair a tight black t-shirt with your white wide-legged jeans. This will create a look that is classy and fun at the same time. You can dress up the outfit by wearing a pair of black or gray sandals, and wearing some silver accessories, such as a long silver necklace or hoop earrings. Pair a loose-fitting patterned blouse with a pair of white skinny jeans. This is a great way to show off your longer, slender legs. Matching a loose top with tight pants will let you flaunt your bottom half while wearing a fun and flouncy top. 1  To show off your legs even more, throw on some strappy heels.
Choose a color scheme. You can think of a pair of white pants as a blank canvas -- you can put almost anything on it and make it work as long as you have some forethought. When you consider a color scheme for your white pants, you can think of the following options: 1  Go with all white. Pair a loose-fitting patterned blouse with a pair of white skinny jeans. This is a great way to show off your longer, slender legs. Matching a loose top with tight pants will let you flaunt your bottom half while wearing a fun and flouncy top. 1  To show off your legs even more, throw on some strappy heels.
by Sylvia. I love wearing white. I find it such a fresh, modern and easy to combine colour, that white pants have become the ultimate basic in my wardrobe. If I don’t know what to wear, I grab one of my white trousers and either combine it with a top, dress, blouse or jacket. There are just so many ways to wear you white pants and today I’d like to highlight a few options. You can wear them with t-shirts only, combine them with a belt and / or a blazer, with a hip (silk) top and even with short dresses. I would wear them in casual situations, in the evening and also to business meetings.
If you have always been reluctant to wear white, give it a try! Don’t be afraid that white makes you look bigger, but instead focus on finding the perfect fit for your body type. Play with different tops and shapes or try wearing tunics or short dress over your trousers. You can wear them with t-shirts only, combine them with a belt and / or a blazer, with a hip (silk) top and even with short dresses. I would wear them in casual situations, in the evening and also to business meetings.
Pairing. The look you are trying to achieve and the fabric of the pants determine the top that you choose to pair with your white pants. Pair jeans with a colorful T-shirt or another type of casual top, such as a hoodie. Elegant silk pants are well-paired with a white silk or cashmere top for a white-on-white look. Event. White is often worn during times of celebration, such as a wedding. A day at the beach is also a great occasion for wearing white pants. Fabric determines how appropriate the pants are to a certain event. White silk pants can be a stylish substitute for a cocktail dress, for example.
1 Put away white pants, dresses and tops made from thin, light materials like linen and breezy cotton. 2  You can still wear white in more year-round fabrics like silk and denim. 3  For example, a white shirt or blouse always looks right and white jeans can easily transition into fall. 