An example of the command required to do this is: set PATH=C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.5.0_14\bin;%PATH%. In this case, the JDK root directory is C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.5.0_14 and the executable (binary) files are located in the bin subdirectory. You can download a copy of my batch file using this URL: setenv.bat.txt. Once you've created the batch file in your home directory --- i.e., whichever directory you are in when you open a command window --- you can then use the batch file by typing the filename on the command line as shown below.
To set the classpath for the bash shell in OS X: 1  Use your favorite text editor (e.g., TextEdit) to add the following line to the file. . 2  export CLASSPATH=.:/Users/username/introcs/ If the file doesn't exist, create a new one. 3  Close the Terminal and open a new one. 4  or. . To set the classpath for the Windows XP Command Prompt: 1  Select. 2  If the Classpath variable exists, prepend .;C:\introcs to the beginning of the. 3  varible. 4  If the. 5  variable does not exist, select New. 6  Type CLASSPATH for the variable name and .;C:\introcs for the variable value. 7  Click OK three times
1 Create a temporary folder C:\mywork. 2  Using Notepad or another text editor, create a small Java file HelloWorld.java with the following text: 3  HelloWorld.java in C:\mywork. 4  To make sure your file name is HeloWorld.java, (not HelloWorld.java.txt), first choose Save as file type:. Running a Java Program from Command Prompt. 1  Create a temporary folder C:\mywork. 2  Using Notepad or another text editor, create a small Java file HelloWorld.java with the following text: 3  HelloWorld.java in C:\mywork
The default class path is the current directory. Setting the CLASSPATH variable or using the-classpath command-line option overrides that default, so if you want to include the current directory in the search path, you must include  .  in the new settings. Clearing CLASSPATH. If your CLASSPATH environment variable has been set to a value that is not correct, or if your startup file or script is setting an incorrect path, you can unset CLASSPATH by using: This command unsets CLASSPATH for the current command prompt window only.
1 If you see a New button and not a Set button: 2  Click New. 3  In the Name field, type PATH. 4  In the Value field, type the following (where you should use replace j2sdk1.4.1_01 with whatever directory name is correct for your installation of java): 5  Click OK to complete that variable. 6  Click in the User variables window. 1 Exit all windows and programs, especially any command prompt window. 2  Try the java and javac commands again to see if they work now. 3  If they do not, restart your computer and try the java and javac commands again. 4  If you see a New button and not a Set button: 5
Save your file as. 1  Run Command Prompt (found under All Programs/Accessories in the Start menu). 2  Type. 3  This makes C:\mywork the current directory. 4  This displays the directory contents. 5  You should see HelloWorld.java among the files. ( 6 use the JDK folder for the version installed on your system). Running a Java Program from Command Prompt. 1  Create a temporary folder C:\mywork. 2  Using Notepad or another text editor, create a small Java file HelloWorld.java with the following text: 3  HelloWorld.java in C:\mywork
Using the CLASSPATH environment variable. In general, you will want to use the-classpath command-line option, as explained in the previous section. This section shows you how to set the CLASSPATH environment variable if you want to do that, or clear settings left over from a previous installation. Clearing CLASSPATH. If your CLASSPATH environment variable has been set to a value that is not correct, or if your startup file or script is setting an incorrect path, you can unset CLASSPATH by using: This command unsets CLASSPATH for the current command prompt window only.