Move the cursor over the “View” drop-down menu in your browser, and then left-click on it. As stated on AVG’s website, some versions of Firefox may require you to use the “Tools” drop-down menu instead. Move the cursor over the “Toolbars” option or, in certain versions of Firefox, the “Add-ons one, to select it. When the sub-menu appears, left-click on “AVG Security Toolbar”. In some versions of Firefox, the “AVG Security Toolbar” may provide a disable button. If this is the case with your version of Firefox, left-click on this button instead. Left-click on the “Disable” button, in the Disable Add-on dialog box. If you are using a browser other than Internet Explorer, skip this step.
Permanently Removing Toolbar. Right-click on the AVG toolbar and then select and left-click Toolbar Options (or Options in some browsers) from the menu that appears. Left-click on the Advanced Options tab. In the list, uncheck the option that reads Re-display the AVG Security Toolbar when hidden (weekly).. In some versions of Firefox, the “AVG Security Toolbar” may provide a disable button. If this is the case with your version of Firefox, left-click on this button instead. Left-click on the “Disable” button, in the Disable Add-on dialog box. If you are using a browser other than Internet Explorer, skip this step.
How to Uninstall AVG PC Tuneup. For some advanced computer users, you can try to run the unins000.exe saved in AVG PC Tuneup file folder to automatically uninstall it. Moreover, this would help you clean the Tuneup remains in your hard drive. Ad. 
1 and then click Remove. 2  In the left menu click Settings. 3  In the section On startup select Open the New Tab page. 4  In the section Search use the drop-down menu to change the search engine from AVG Secure Search to your preferred one (e.g. 1 Open the Start menu, and then click Control Panel (or Settings, and then Control Panel). 2  Click Add or remove programs. 3  In the list of applications double-click AVG Security Toolbar, AVG SafeGuard Toolbar or AVG Web TuneUp. 4  The uninstallation will be launched.