Ethos, Pathos, and Logos are modes of persuasion used to convince audiences. They are also referred to as the three artistic proofs (Aristotle coined the terms), and are all represented by Greek words. Ethos or the ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the author’s credibility or character. An author would use ethos to show to his audience that he is a credible source and is worth listening to. Ethos is the Greek word for “character.” The word “ethic” is derived from ethos. 
Pathos is a quality of an experience in life or a work of art that stirs up emotions of pity, sympathy and sorrow. Pathos can be expressed through words, pictures or even with gestures of the body. Pathos is an important tool of persuasion in arguments. Pathos is a method of convincing people with an argument drawn out through an emotional response. Analyzing examples of pathos, one would come to the conclusion that it differs from other “ingredients of persuasion ” namely “ Ethos ” and “ logos ”.
1 Ethos confirms the credibility of a writer or a speaker and thus they become trustworthy in the eyes of listeners and readers who as a result are persuaded by their arguments. 2  Ethos of a speaker or a writer is created largely by the choice of words he or she makes in order to convince listeners or readers. It is an argument “against the man,” i.e. undermining the ethos of a speaker or a writer in opposition. It is a strategy in which a speaker or a writer attacks the character or personality of an opponent speaker or writer instead of criticizing the matter of his or her point of view.
Significance of Ethos in Literature. Ethos works in many ways in literature. While it’s not as popular in contemporary literature, some authors make themselves into a narrator character in their own works, and address the audience directly. Ethos is an appeal to ethics, motivating an audience toward belief by way of the speaker’s trustworthiness and credibility. Pathos is an appeal to emotion. Logos is an appeal to logic.
1 Ethos of a speaker or a writer is created largely by the choice of words he or she makes in order to convince listeners or readers. 2  Being an expert on the subject matter that a speaker or a writer chooses determines his or her ethos. It is an argument “against the man,” i.e. undermining the ethos of a speaker or a writer in opposition. It is a strategy in which a speaker or a writer attacks the character or personality of an opponent speaker or writer instead of criticizing the matter of his or her point of view.
Sources: Arist.1.2.4, 2.1, 2.12-17. Ethos names the persuasive appeal of one's character, especially how this character is established by means of the speech or discourse. Aristotle claimed that one needs to appear both knowledgeable about one's subject and benevolent. 
Lesson Summary. Let's review. Ethos is a term with Greek origins, and it refers to the morals, values and beliefs of a person, or even an entire culture. Ethos is also one of the three rhetorical appeals identified by Aristotle. Rhetoric is the language that's designed to persuade people, like politicians' speeches. 
Ethos is the distinctive spirit of a culture, or an era; simply  understood it is the displayed character or attributes of that  culture (could also be applied to a person … , company, or even a  social movement). Ethos: Establishes credibility in the speaker. Since by definition it means the common attitudes, beliefs, and characteristics of a group or time period, this appeal sets up believability in the writer. He or she is perceived as someone who can be trusted and is concerned with the reader's best interests.
Ethos (/ˈiːθɒs/ or US /ˈiːθoʊs/) is a Greek word meaning  character  that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence its hearer's emotions, behaviors, and even morals. 