1 Some appliance manufacturers recommend setting the temperature in the refrigerator compartment to 37 degrees Fahrenheit and the freezer compartment to 0 degrees Fahrenheit. 2  Others may recommend a refrigerator compartment temperature range between 35 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Tips. 1 
Newsletter sign up. Refrigerator Thermometers will measure temperature ranges between a low of -40°F and a high of 60°F (-40°C and 15°C.) They can be used both for the freezer and the fridge. They need to be relatively shatterproof, as they are bound to get knocked about inside the fridge over time. If you have one in your fridge, when the power goes back on, you can look inside the fridge and check the temperature. If the temperature is at 40°F (4°C) or colder, then you can know that your food will be fine. During a power outage, don't allow anyone to open your fridge or freezer any more than absolutely necessary.
To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight)
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2
2. Place the thermometer inside a glass of water, and put the glass on your refrigerator's middle shelf. 3. Check the temperature on the appliance thermometer after 5 to 8 hours. The temperature should register between 38 F and 40 F (2 C to 4 C) for safe food storage
T he ideal temperature for the freezer is about 5 degrees (F). The refrigerator should be kept at about 36 degrees (F). The temperature can be adjusted using the controls found inside the freezer or refrigerator. Measurement of the temperature in the freezer may be inaccurate if you simply place a thermometer inside. To properly Measure the temperature, place a cup of alcohol or cooking oil with a cooking thermometer into the freezer for about 2 hours. The oil or alcohol will not freeze and will make it possible to accurately measure the temperature.
5. Open the door of the refrigerator or freezer compartment that you want to measure for temperature data. Place, hang or attach the refrigerator thermometer inside the compartment, according to manufacturer instructions. Place a freestanding unit on the middle shelf in the compartment. Tips. 1  Some appliance manufacturers recommend setting the temperature in the refrigerator compartment to 37 degrees Fahrenheit and the freezer compartment to 0 degrees Fahrenheit. 2  Others may recommend a refrigerator compartment temperature range between 35 and 4
To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2
Decreasing the fridge temperature opens the vents more and increases air circulation from the freezer. The temperature can be adjusted using the controls found inside the refrigerator or freezer. The ideal freezer temperature is about 0 to 5 degrees (F) and about 38 degrees (F) for the fridge. Measure the temperature by placing a cup of water with a cooking thermometer into the refrigerator for about 2 hours or more. To test the freezer, substitute alcohol or cooking oil. In most refrigerator freezers, the refrigerator gets its cold from the freezer. The evaporator fan circulates air over the coils in the freezer and cold air circulates into the refrigerator through vents.