Exothermic (and endothermic) describe two types of chemical reactions or systems found in nature, as follows. Simply stated, after an exothermic reaction, more energy has been released to the surroundings than was absorbed to initiate and maintain the reaction. In exothermic chemical reactions, the heat that is released by the reaction takes the form of electromagnetic energy. The transition of electrons from one quantum energy level to another causes light to be released.
The opposite of an exothermic process is an endothermic process, one that absorbs energy in the form of heat. The concept is frequently applied in the physical sciences to chemical reactions, where as in chemical bond energy that will be converted to thermal energy (heat). In exothermic chemical reactions, the heat that is released by the reaction takes the form of electromagnetic energy. The transition of electrons from one quantum energy level to another causes light to be released.
Reactions that give out heat energy are called exothermic reactions.. These reactions feel warm to the touch. If a reaction is highly exothermic it may be dangerous to actually touch and feel it. Explosion are very exothermic reactions. Energy is required to break chemical bonds which means that energy is spent or used up. DH = -ve. 1  The inherent energy in a substance is in the form of potential energy. 2  In an exothermic reaction, the potential energy of the system decreases as reactants are converted to products. 3  Since the total energy of a system is always conserved, the decrease in potential energy leads to increase in kinetic energy.
An exothermic reaction is a chemical or physical reaction that releases heat. It gives net energy to its surroundings. That is, the energy needed to initiate the reaction is less than the energy that is subsequently released. When the medium in which the reaction is taking place gains heat, the reaction is exothermic. When using a calorimeter, the total amount of heat that flows into (or through) the calorimeter is the negative of the net change in energy of the system. An energy profile of an exothermic reaction. by definition the enthalpy change has a negative value: in an exothermic reaction, gives a negative value for δH, since a larger value (the energy released in the reaction) is subtracted from a smaller value (the energy used for the reaction).
Thanks. Terry Holbrook When trying to classify a process as exothermic or endothermic, watch how the temperature of the surroundings changes. An exothermic process releases heat, and causes the temperature of the immediate surroundings to rise. An endothermic process absorbs heat and cools the surroundings. Thanks. Terry Holbrook. When trying to classify a process as exothermic or endothermic, watch how the temperature of the surroundings changes. An exothermic process releases heat, and causes the temperature of the immediate surroundings to rise.
In an adiabatic system (i.e. a system that does not exchange heat with the surroundings), an exothermic process results in an increase in temperature of the system. In exothermic chemical reactions, the heat that is released by the reaction takes the form of electromagnetic energy. The transition of electrons from one quantum energy level to another causes light to be released.
The thermite reaction is highly exothermic. In addition to the risk of burns from getting too close to the reaction or having material ejected from it, there is a risk of eye damage from looking at the very bright light that is produced. Only perform the thermite reaction on a fire-safe surface. 
In thermodynamics, the term exothermic process (exo- : outside) describes a process or reaction that releases energy from the system, usually in the form of heat, but also in a form of light (e.g. a spark, flame, or flash), electricity (e.g. a battery), or sound (e.g. explosion heard when burning hydrogen). In exothermic chemical reactions, the heat that is released by the reaction takes the form of electromagnetic energy. The transition of electrons from one quantum energy level to another causes light to be released.
An exothermic reaction is a chemical reaction that releases energy by light or heat. It is the opposite of an endothermic reaction. An energy profile of an exothermic reaction. by definition the enthalpy change has a negative value: in an exothermic reaction, gives a negative value for δH, since a larger value (the energy released in the reaction) is subtracted from a smaller value (the energy used for the reaction).