If the other driver's policy won't cover all of your car repairs, file a claim with your auto insurance company. The company will use either your collision or UM/UIM coverage to pay the difference (minus your deductible) between the damage to your car and what the other driver's policy will pay. Be sure to tell your insurance company within 30 days that you have added or replaced a car and which coverages you want. You could lose coverage on an additional or replacement car if you wait longer to tell your insurance company. Rental Cars. Rental car agencies offer collision damage waivers and liability policies.
Even if you're not at fault, you can make a claim with your insurance company for payment of damages and injuries -- if you have the right coverages. If you have collision insurance, file a claim with your own carrier. It will pay for the cost of repairs or total loss of your vehicle. If you live in a no-fault state, your PIP coverage will pay for your lost wages up to the limits of your policy. When another driver wrecks your car beyond repair, his or her insurance company should pay you the actual cash value of your car before it was totaled.
An auto insurance policy is a contract between you and an insurance company. You pay a premium. In exchange, the insurance company promises to pay for specific car-related financial losses, within the selected coverage limits, that you may have during the term of the agreement. 
Note: The deductible is the amount you must pay before the insurance company will pay. For example, if you have a claim for $1,000 and a deductible of $300, the insurance company will automatically deduct $300 from the amount it will pay you. Be sure to tell your insurance company within 30 days that you have added or replaced a car and which coverages you want. You could lose coverage on an additional or replacement car if you wait longer to tell your insurance company. Rental Cars. Rental car agencies offer collision damage waivers and liability policies.
If your car is totaled, many companies will pay for your rental as a courtesy, but they are not required to do so. If you are filing a claim with your own insurance company, the cost of a rental car will only be covered if you paid a premium to include rental reimbursement coverage in your policy. Most polices have a dollar limit for rental payments, so check your policy. The insurance company is required to pay what your vehicle was actually worth at the moment before the crash. The claims adjuster will check to see what a car like yours (same make, model and year) is worth in your general geographic area.
When a driver is underinsured, your insurance company will work with the other driver's company to cover your claim, Spriggs says. For example, suppose the underinsured driver's policy covers up to $5,000 of property damage, but your vehicle sustained $10,000 in damage. In that case, the underinsured driver's insurance company will pay $5,000 and your insurance company will pay the other $5,000. If an uninsured driver hits you, and you suffer injuries, your insurance company will pay you, he says. However, you must have collision insurance or coverage for uninsured or underinsured drivers in order for your carrier to pay for your car's damages.
If you file a first party claim, your insurance company will either pay to repair the damages to your vehicle or pay you the value of your vehicle if the damages exceed the car's worth. First, though, the company will subtract the deductible amount you have chosen for that coverage. It depends. If your car is stolen, most insurance policies will reimburse you for a stated amount towards the cost of a rental vehicle for a limited time starting 48 hours after the theft, as long as you report the theft to the police and to the insurance company.
If the repair estimates are more than your car is worth, the insurance company will likely total your car and pay you its actual cash value rather than pay to fix it. Insurance companies use various sources for determining the value of your car. Ask the company what source it used to determine your car's value. Be sure to tell your insurance company within 30 days that you have added or replaced a car and which coverages you want. You could lose coverage on an additional or replacement car if you wait longer to tell your insurance company. Rental Cars. Rental car agencies offer collision damage waivers and liability policies.