Absorption. Definition. noun. (general) The act or process of absorbing or assimilating. (biology) The process of absorbing or assimilating substances into cells or across the tissues and organs through diffusion or osmosis, as in absorption of nutrients by the digestive system, or absorption of drugs into the bloodstream. Related terms: absorption band, absorption cell, atomic absorption spectrophotometry, cutaneous absorption, external absorption, linear absorption coefficient, specific absorption coefficient. Compare: adsorption.
In physics, absorption of electromagnetic radiation is the way in which the energy of a photon is taken up by matter, typically the electrons of an atom. Thus, the electromagnetic energy is transformed into internal energy of the absorber, for example thermal energy. 
NOUN: absorption 1. (chemistry) a process in which one substance permeates another; a fluid permeates or is dissolved by a liquid or solid 2. (physics) the process in whic … h incident radiated energy is retained without reflection or transmission on passing through a medium 3. Answer   Nonlinear absorption is the kind of absorption that occurs when materials are illuminated by a strong laser source. It's name is nonlinear because this typ … e of absorption is proportional to square of intensity and higher orders. Remember Beer's law. Briefly dI/dz=-alfa*I-beta*I2-gamma*I3..
1. the act or process of converting food into chemical substances that can be absorbed and assimilated. 2. the subjection of a substance to prolonged heat and moisture, so as to disintegrate and soften it.diges´tive. artificial digestion digestion outside the body. gastric digestion digestion by gastric juice. 1. Carbohydrates: principally starches, lactose, and sucrose. Starches are acted on by the enzyme ptyalin (alpha-amylase) secreted in saliva, by hydrochloric acid (HCl) in the stomach, and by pancreatic amylase and intestinal amylase in the small intestine, which split the starches into maltose and isomaltose.
Diffen › Science › Chemistry. Absorption is the process in which a fluid is dissolved by a liquid or a solid (absorbent). Adsorption is the process in which atoms, ions or molecules from a substance (it could be gas, liquid or dissolved solid) adhere to a surface of the adsorbent. Adsorption is a surface-based process where a film of adsorbate is created on the surface while absorption involves the entire volume of the absorbing substance
Capabilities. The user can absorb biological mass/matter, while removing it from the source, into their body and use it in various ways, gaining some form of advantage, either by enhancing themselves, gaining the drained power, knowledge, skills, etc., using it as power source etc., either temporarily or permanently. The ability to absorb the biomass and utilize it in some way. Sub-power of Biological Manipulation and Organic Manipulation. Variation of Organic Absorption.
2. digestion-the organic process by which food is converted into substances that can be absorbed into the body. gastric digestion-the process of breaking down proteins by the action of the gastric juice in the stomach. biological process, organic process-a process occurring in living organisms. di•ges•tion. 1. the process in the alimentary canal by which food is broken up physically, as by the action of the teeth, and chemically, as by the action of enzymes, and converted into a substance suitable for absorption and assimilation into the body. 2. the function or power of digesting food
Absorption is the taking up of material by a living organism. One example of this is absorption of nutrients in the intestines. Answer   Nonlinear absorption is the kind of absorption that occurs when materials are illuminated by a strong laser source. It's name is nonlinear because this typ … e of absorption is proportional to square of intensity and higher orders. Remember Beer's law. Briefly dI/dz=-alfa*I-beta*I2-gamma*I3..