And the term isn’t an acronym (so no need to type it as LEAN or L.E.A.N.). The term came from John Krafcik, who was a graduate student at MIT, working for Lean Enterprise Institute founder Jim Womack on the research for the book The Machine That Changed the World. See comment #5 where I added more detail about that. And he saw the difference between GM and Toyota at the time: Hired as a manufacturing engineer, Krafcik says the experience “was just awesome,” especially his Toyota-trained boss, who wanted him to see what makes an auto plant succeed or fail.
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. After formulating the guiding principles of its lean manufacturing approach in the Toyota Production System (TPS), Toyota formalized in 2001 the basis of its lean management: the key managerial values and attitudes needed to sustain continuous improvement in the long run.
The term Lean Thinking was coined by James P. Womack and Daniel T. Jones to capture the essence of their in-depth study of Toyota’s fabled Toyota Production System. Lean Thinking is a business methodology which aims to provide a new way to think about how to organize human activities to deliver more benefits to society and value to individuals while eliminating waste.
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. After formulating the guiding principles of its lean manufacturing approach in the Toyota Production System (TPS), Toyota formalized in 2001 the basis of its lean management: the key managerial values and attitudes needed to sustain continuous improvement in the long run.
The term “lean production” arguably was first used in a MIT Sloan Management Review article by John Krafcik that was published 25 years ago this fall (Fall 1988), titled “ Triumph of the Lean Production System ” (pdf via LEI). People often ask me where the term “ Lean ” comes from. It’s not an acronym, so it shouldn’t be spelled “LEAN” (but it often is).
Lean History. The term Lean was coined by John Krafcik, an MIT graduate, in an article he published in 1988. The term then caught on when James Womack and Daniel Jones wrote the book Lean Thinking. If you look at it this way, Lean history is quite short. By the mid 1990s, Lean Manufacturing was a common term in all car manufacturing plants. By the new millennium, Lean gained huge popularity and many manufacturing companies had implemented (or tried to implement) Lean at their site.
Lean principles are derived from the Japanese manufacturing industry. The term was first coined by John Krafcik in his 1988 article, Triumph of the Lean Production System, based on his master's thesis at the MIT Sloan School of Management. After formulating the guiding principles of its lean manufacturing approach in the Toyota Production System (TPS), Toyota formalized in 2001 the basis of its lean management: the key managerial values and attitudes needed to sustain continuous improvement in the long run.
The benefits generally are lower costs, higher quality, and shorter lead times. The term lean manufacturing is coined to represent half the human effort in the company, half the manufacturing space, half the investment in tools, and half the engineering hours to develop a new product in half the time. 
Some people get way too hung up about labels and definitions. I’m a ‘Lean’ Consultant and Coach, where I’m referring to ‘Lean’ primarily as a business improvement philosophy and way of thinking. Originally, the term ‘Lean Manufacturing’ was coined, referring to ‘triming the fat’ from manufacturing processes.