Hair level ranges from 1, true black, to 10, lightest blonde/pale yellow. Hair color is identified by level; the chart also illustrates the percentage of melanin in each level as well as the underlying pigment for each level. Most hairstylists consider level 5 to be lightest brown, and 6 to be darkest blonde, while some color lines use 6 as the lightest brown. Hair color is measured by professionals by level to articulate the amount of melanin present. Varying percentages of melanin of both types can also affect the “tone” of the hair. Tone is used to describe a color as either warm or cool. The kitties you see here are my new niece and nephew, Axel and Cheyenne.
Rash: Breaking out (eruption) of the skin. A rash can be caused by an underlying medical condition, hormonal cycles, allergies, or contact with irritating substances. Treatment depends on the underlying cause of the rash. Medically, a rash is referred to as an exanthem. 
Hair color experts study the theory of color pigment. It is only through understanding hair pigments and correct color formulations that the correct color can be chosen and applied to hair color clients. Quite simply hair coloring is the science and art of changing the color of the hair. The natural color of human hair is first and foremost directly tied to hereditary factors. As scientists have proven, hair color is an inherited characteristic.
The chart above shows the natural hair levels and their underlying pigments. Underlying pigments are the natural pigments that make up every hair color. When formulating hair color, you must take into consideration the underlying pigments and how they will act. Many stylists throw the term around use it, or lose it when referring to underlying pigments. This is because you will need to determine if the underlying pigment will help or hurt your desired outcome. If you are looking to achieve a cool beige blonde on natural level 6 hair, then in this case you would lose the underlying pigment, and work to cover up the warmth that will inevitably come out in the hair when you lighten it.
The color of the hair, light or dark, depends upon the color and amount of the grains of pigment it contains. Hair color is created by the movement of light rays either as they are absorbed or reflected by artificial pigment added to the hair in the tinting process, or by natural hair pigment. Quite simply hair coloring is the science and art of changing the color of the hair. The natural color of human hair is first and foremost directly tied to hereditary factors. As scientists have proven, hair color is an inherited characteristic.
Melanin /ˈmɛlənɪn/ (Greek: μέλας - melas, black, dark) is a broad term for a group of natural pigments found in most organisms (arachnids are one of the few groups in which it has not been detected). Melanin is produced by the oxidation of the amino acid tyrosine, followed by polymerization. The pigment is produced in a specialized group of cells known as melanocytes. There are three basic types of melanin: eumelanin, pheomelanin, and neuromelanin. The most common type of melanin is eumelanin. There are two types of eumelanin—brown eumelanin and black
1. a low or subdued tone: to speak in undertones. 2. an unobtrusive or background sound. 3. an underlying quality or element; undercurrent: an undertone of regret in his voice. 4. a subdued color; a color modified by an underlying color. 
The integumentary system is an organ system consisting of the skin, hair, nails, and exocrine glands. The skin is only a few millimeters thick yet is by far the largest organ in the body. Melanocytes in the epidermis produce the pigment melanin, which absorbs UV light before it can pass through the skin. UV light can cause cells to become cancerous if not blocked from entering the body. Skin Color. Human skin color is controlled by the interaction of 3 pigments: melanin, carotene, and hemoglobin. Melanin is a brown or black pigment produced by melanocytes to protect the skin from UV radiation. Melanin gives skin its tan or brown coloration and provides the color of brown or black hair. Melanin production increases as the skin is exposed to higher levels of UV light resulting in tanning of the skin
Full Definition of UNDERTONE. 1. : a low or subdued utterance or accompanying sound. 2. : a quality (as of emotion) underlying the surface of an utterance or action. 3. : a subdued color; specifically: a color seen through and modifying another color. See undertone defined for English-language learners. 