What To Do When Your Outlet Sparks. When an outlet sparks, it is important to keep yourself and your property safe. These steps might help reduce the risk of harm or injury: 1  Shut off the breaker for the affected outlet. 2  Shut off and unplug any appliances using the outlet. Causes of Sparking Outlets. In most cases, sparking outlets result from a problem within the wiring or outlet itself. Common causes include: 1  Exposed wiring. 2  Bare wires generate intense heat. 3  If those bare wires happen to touch the metal of the outlet, this can result in sparks when the outlet is used. 4  Using adapters in
The reason you see sparks when u plug in an appliance that is already turned on is due to two main factors: 1) the current is encountering instant resistance (hold your garden hose nozzle against a wall and turn it on -- water goes everywhere), 2) the sparks, or arking (sic) is only free electricity in air. RE: Why do my house home electrical plug sockets spark when inserting a plug? the wireing is almost 2 years new using gfci sockets.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Sometimes, when you plug an electrical appliance into an outlet, you may notice a small blue spark. In most situations, this is a normal event as the electrons begin to flow into the appliance's power cord. At other times, however, a spark from an electrical outlet could start a fire or severely damage the plug. 
Report Abuse. Outlets should not spark when things are plugged in or unplugged. Things that will cause sparking are-The device is turned on. Always turn things off first, Loose connections inside the outlet. Replace the outlet. Sparking causes carbon build-up on the contacts, which is bad for the flow of electricity, and results in excessive heat, sometimes causing bad things like smoke and fire. Bruce A · 5 years ago
1 I tried other receptacles in the house and I get a spark from them also. 2  I replaced the adapter with a new one but I still get a spark. 3  When I plug in a lamp without a ground plug on it into these same receptacles I do not get a spark. Dave’s Reply: Thanks for your electrical question Larry. A Spark May Be Seen When a Cord is Plugged In. 1  The spark that you see when you plug in your laptop adapter or power supply is because the electronic components of the power supply are drawing power immediately.
Electricity and a Load Spark. Electrical Question: When I plug in my adapter for my laptop computer directly into an outlet in my kitchen I can see a spark at the time I plug it in. 1  I tried other receptacles in the house and I get a spark from them also. 2  I replaced the adapter with a new one but I still get a spark. Dave’s Reply: Thanks for your electrical question Larry. A Spark May Be Seen When a Cord is Plugged In. 1  The spark that you see when you plug in your laptop adapter or power supply is because the electronic components of the power supply are drawing power immediately.
If when you plug in a device, the receptacle buzzes or sparks, this is a good indication that there is a problem with the contact blades inside the receptacle. Over time the blades that are used to hold the prongs of the electrical plug can become worn or loose. 