The higher the INR number, the thinner your blood. The lower the number the thicker your blood ... 1 is normal blood without blood thinners. And although we say thinner generally what that means is that it takes longer to clot. With an INR of 2, your blood takes twice as long as normal unthinned blood.
International Normalized Ratio (INR) is a blood test that measures the time it takes for blood to clot. This test is usually administered to people taking anticoagulants or blood thinners. The lower the INR number, the shorter it takes for blood to clot and the greater risk you have for blood clots. The higher the INR number, the longer it takes for blood to clot and the greater risk you have of bleeding. Most healthy people will have an INR of 0.9 - 1.3. 1 Patients who are taking blood thinners such as Warfarin are usually considered therapeutic by their doctors when their INR is between 2.0 and 3.0.
A PT/INR value higher than normal means your blood is taking longer than normal to form a clot. If you are taking a blood thinner, it means that the medicine is working. If you are not taking a blood thinner and your values are higher than normal, you may:
The INR for a person not taking warfarin is 1. The higher the INR, the longer it takes for blood to clot. The desired INR for you will depend on the reason for which you are taking warfarin. Your doctors will try and keep your INR within a range – called the target INR range.
The PT and INR blood test measures the time it takes your blood to form a clot. Other names for the PT test are prothrombin time and pro time. INR stands for international normalized ratio.
INR Levels. The lower the INR number, the shorter it takes for blood to clot and the greater risk you have for blood clots. The higher the INR number, the longer it takes for blood to clot and the greater risk you have of bleeding. Most healthy people will have an INR of 0.9 - 1.3. 1 Patients who are taking blood thinners such as Warfarin are usually considered therapeutic by their doctors when their INR is between 2.0 and 3.0.