Neuromuscular disease (NMD). Neuromuscular disease (NMD) is the name given to a range of diseases and conditions that affect the nerves controlling your muscles. If the nerves can’t communicate with your muscles, your muscles then can’t function properly. 
Neuromuscular diseases are those that affect the muscles and/or their direct nervous system control. Myasthenia gravis and Lambert–Eaton syndrome are examples of neuromuscular junction disorders. Muscular dystrophies and inflammatory myopathies such as polymyositis are examples of primary muscular (myopathic)
Email. Print. Neuromuscular disorders affect the nerves that control voluntary muscles and the nerves that communicate sensory information back to the brain. Nerve cells (neurons) send and receive electrical messages to and from the body to help control voluntary muscles. Symptoms will depend on the type of neuromuscular disorder and the areas of the body that are affected. Some symptoms common to neuromuscular disorders include: 1  Muscle weakness that can lead to twitching, cramps, aches and pains. 2  Muscle loss.
A neuromuscular disease is a disorder that affects the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system includes muscles, the nerve-muscle (neuromuscular) junction, peripheral nerves in the limbs, and the motor-nerve cells in the spinal cord. Other spinal cord or brain diseases are not considered “neuromuscular” diseases. Patients with neuromuscular diseases can have weakness, loss of muscle bulk, muscle twitching, cramping, numbness, tingling, and a host of other symptoms. Problems with the nerve-muscle junction can also cause droopy eyelids, double vision, and weakness that worsen with activity
Neuromuscular disease (NMD) is a broad term that encompasses many diseases and ailments that impair muscle function, either directly via intrinsic muscle pathology, or indirectly via nerve pathology. Some NMD patients are characterized by progressive muscular impairment leading to: 1  loss of mobility. 2  being wheelchair-bound. 
Neuromuscular disorder: Introduction. Neuromuscular disorder: neuromuscular disorders affect the nerves that control the voluntary muscles. See detailed information below for a list of 24 causes of Neuromuscular disorder, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Neuromuscular disorder: Causes | Symptom Checker ».
About Neuromuscular Disorders Learn More. Neuromuscular disorder is a broad term that encompasses many different syndromes and diseases that either directly or indirectly impairs the function of the skeletal muscles, the muscles that move the limbs and trunk. The text of this section is a brief overview of the different neuromuscular diseases and the information provided here may not be applicable to you or your child. Please consult your healthcare provider for more information.
Neuromuscular disease is a very broad term that encompasses many diseases and ailments that impair the functioning of the muscles, either directly, being pathologies of the muscle, or indirectly, being pathologies of nerves or neuromuscular junctions. Myasthenia gravis and Lambert–Eaton syndrome are examples of neuromuscular junction disorders. Muscular dystrophies and inflammatory myopathies such as polymyositis are examples of primary muscular (myopathic)