A chest infection refers to an infection that occurs in either the airways to the lungs. The airways are a series of tubes that gradually get smaller and more numerous to deliver oxygen taken in through your nose or mouth to your lungs. The largest tube is the trachea, or windpipe, in your neck. The symptoms and complications of a chest infection can be much worse in people with certain medical conditions. Adults who are more at risk if they have a chest infection include: 1  People who are 65 years old and older. 2  People who smoke or drink alcohol excessively.
Adult chest infections. Anyone can have a chest infection, and they are common after having a cold or flu, especially in the autumn and winter. The two main types of chest infection in adults are acute bronchitis and pneumonia. The symptoms and complications of a chest infection can be much worse in people with certain medical conditions. Adults who are more at risk if they have a chest infection include: 1  People who are 65 years old and older. 2  People who smoke or drink alcohol excessively.
Chest infection, adult. A chest infection is a bacterial or viral infection of the airways leading down into the lungs, or of the lungs themselves. The main symptoms of a chest infection include: 1  a chesty cough that can often bring up phlegm (thick mucus). 2  breathing difficulties. 3  chest pain. Pneumonia is an infection that causes the tiny air sacs in your lungs, known as alveoli, to become inflamed and filled with fluid. Pneumonia is usually caused by bacteria, although some cases can be caused by viruses.
Signs and symptoms of a chest infection. The main symptoms of a chest infection can include: 1  a persistent cough. 2  coughing up yellow or green phlegm (thick mucus), or coughing up blood. 3  breathlessness or rapid and shallow breathing. 4  wheezing. 5  a high temperature (fever). 6  a rapid heartbeat. 7  chest pain or tightness
The main symptoms of a chest infection can include: 1  a persistent cough. 2  coughing up yellow or green phlegm (thick mucus), or coughing up blood. 3  breathlessness or rapid and shallow breathing. 4  wheezing. 5  a high temperature (fever). 6  a rapid heartbeat. 7  chest pain or tightness. The main types of chest infection are bronchitis and pneumonia. Most bronchitis cases are caused by viruses, whereas most pneumonia cases are due to bacteria. These infections are usually spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes.
What is Chest Infection. A chest infection is an infection of the airways leading down to the lungs, or an infection in the lungs themselves. 'Chest infection' is a general term that covers a number of conditions, including pneumonia and bronchitis. Symptoms of adult chest infection. The symptoms of acute bronchitis and pneumonia can be similar-for example, a cough that brings up phlegm (thick mucus), and a high temperature. However, the key difference between the symptoms of acute bronchitis and pneumonia is that pneumonia is more severe.
If you have a chest infection, you should: 1  Get plenty of rest. 2  Drink lots of fluid to prevent your body getting dry (dehydration) and to help keep the mucus in your lungs thin and easier to cough up. 3  Inhale steam vapour, perhaps with added menthol. 4  This can help to clear the mucus from your chest. If you feel very unwell then you should see a doctor urgently to see what treatment you need. There are two main types of chest infection: 1  Acute bronchitis is an infection of the large airways in the lungs (bronchi). 2  Acute bronchitis is common and is often due to a viral infection. 3  Infection with a germ (bacterium) is a less common cause
A chest infection is an infection of the lungs or airways. The main types of chest infection are bronchitis and pneumonia. Most bronchitis cases are caused by viruses, whereas most pneumonia cases are due to bacteria. These infections are usually spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes.