Available to all employees, Cabela’s 401(k) Savings Plan helps you prepare for a secure retirement. We match eligible employee contributions dollar-for-dollar, up to 4% of pay, on a bi-weekly basis. A host of investment funds are available including Cabela’s stock, letting you tailor a custom portfolio that perfectly meets your retirement goals. Adoption Leave & Assistance. If you are growing your family through adoption, Cabela’s wants to share in your joy. We offer qualifying employees up to three weeks of paid leave for an adoption, as well as up to $2,000 reimbursement to assist families in covering costs associated with the adoption process.
Home Cabela's Salary. Cabela's average salary is $69,694, median salary is $69,413 with a salary range from $38,605 to $111,785. Cabela's salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Cabela's salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference onl
It’s all about getting in front of a real person. Cabela’s is a very enthusiatic and fun company to work for. They are very accomodating to their staff but expect integrity, honesty and 150% from their employees. We recently had a paper airplane contest to try and land the plane in a fishing net to win a metal detector…one guy made it!! Hiring process information for an interview at Cabela's. Cabela's operates as one of the most famous names in sporting goods and maintains around 45 massive storefronts across the United States. The sheer enormity of Cabela's locations requires hundreds of employees for each store.
100 months ago. No comments made for months on end, and then two within a minute of one another-both with typos and errs in spelling. Hmmmm....curiouser and curiouser. Salaries at Cabela's in Sidney average much higher than salaries for comparable positions in the Nebraska panhandle and surrounding area. That runs across the board-for positions in warehouse on up to those in the corporate offices. Travel requirements vary with position-just like any other company
The Cabela’s family succeeds together, a philosophy that is reflected in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP. With the ESPP, Cabela’s assists our employees who wish to invest in Cabela’s by allowing stock to be purchased at a 15% discount. Adoption Leave & Assistance. If you are growing your family through adoption, Cabela’s wants to share in your joy. We offer qualifying employees up to three weeks of paid leave for an adoption, as well as up to $2,000 reimbursement to assist families in covering costs associated with the adoption process.
Cons. They cut hours and expect 1 person to do the job of 4 they have 1 employee covering 3 departments at times the pay is degrading. Favoritism among the managers and a few employees if you are not in their circle then you are going nowhere it doesn't mater how much experience or how much effort you put into your job. 
Each item has a different discount. You have to ask what the employee price is for each individual item you want. And you don't get employee pricing and sale price. I know the employee/vendor discount is between 40/60% off. Just purchased some items for our PF fundraiser 2 days ago and that is what most of the discount was for cabelas brand items, some non cabelas discount was 10-40%. We didn't buy many big dollar items yet just turkey vests, hats, seasoning etc.
There are a lot of wonderful things about being a teacher, but it's a really difficult job, too. It's a profession that's immensely rewarding and imme... To See How Few Women There Are at the Top, Photoshop Out the Men. If you watched the Democratic primary debate last night, one thing probably stood out to you, regardless of your political leanings: Hillary Clinton w... Log in with LinkedIn. Tell us about your current job and your skillset, and we’ll let you know how much employers are paying in your area. 
For eligible full-time employees, Cabela’s pays for a term life insurance plan that awards 200% of your base salary (up to a $500,000 maximum) to your selected beneficiary. Adoption Leave & Assistance. If you are growing your family through adoption, Cabela’s wants to share in your joy. We offer qualifying employees up to three weeks of paid leave for an adoption, as well as up to $2,000 reimbursement to assist families in covering costs associated with the adoption process.