Chromogranin A. Chromogranins are a family of glycoproteins with dense-core secretory vesicles that are found in neuronal and endocrine tissues. 3 Despite certain limitations, CgA is currently the most useful circulating marker for carcinoid tumors and PNET 5 and is elevated in 60% to 100% of NET. 4.
* a_mamdouh8@hotmail.com Abstract: Evaluation of Serum Chromogranin A as a Useful Tumor Marker for Diagnosis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma. Journal of American Science 2011; 7(1):999-1007]. (ISSN: 1545-1003). http://www.americanscience.org. 
Chromogranin A (CGA) is a protein found in and released from neuroendocrine cells. The Chromogranin A test is used as a tumor marker. It may be ordered in combination with or in place of serotonin to help as an aid to diagnose carcinoid syndrome. Typical carcinoid symptoms include: 1  Flushing. 2  Diarrhea. 3  Abdominal pain. 4  Wheezing. 5  Valvular heart disease. 
Chromogranin A (CgA) is an acidic glycoprotein expressed in the secretory granules of most normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine (NE) cell types, where it is released together with peptide hormones and biogenic amines (Taupenot et al. 2003). Overall, 273 patients with NETs were enrolled between April 2003 and October 2004 in 40 different Italian centers, participating to the CROMaNET study, a multicenter observational study for the evaluation of CgA as marker for diagnosis and follow-up of NET.
Clinical Applications 1  : A very sensitive (83%) and highly specific (96%) diagnostic marker in the evaluation of actual or suspected pheochromocytoma. 2  Drugs commonly employed in the diagnosis or treatment of pheochromocytoma has little effect on the plasma chromogranin A level. 3  To ascertain the source of a tumor. Introduction : Chromogranin A belongs to the acidic, soluble protein present in the secretory vesicles of neuroendocrine. Immunohistochemical studies have demonstrated that chromogranin A is present in virtually all granulecontaining. endocrine cells and in the great majority of tumors of neuroendocrine origin.
CgA is ordered along with other tests when a doctor suspects that a person has signs and symptoms that are due to a carcinoid tumor, pheochromocytoma, or other neuroendocrine tumor. Some signs and symptoms include: 1  Flushing of the face and neck (appearance of deep red color, usually with sudden onset). An increased level in a symptomatic person may indicate the presence of a tumor but will not tell the doctor what type it is or where it is. The quantity of CgA is not associated with the severity of a person's symptoms but is associated with the tumor burden-the mass of the tumor.
The Chromogranin A test is used as a tumor marker. It may be ordered in combination with or in place of 5-HIAA to help diagnose carcinoid tumors. It is also used to help monitor the effectiveness of treatment and detect recurrence of this tumor. Sometimes it may be ordered with specific hormones, such as catecholamines, to help diagnose and monitor a pheochromocytoma. An increased level in a symptomatic person may indicate the presence of a tumor but will not tell the doctor what type it is or where it is. The quantity of CgA is not associated with the severity of a person's symptoms but is associated with the tumor burden-the mass of the tumor.
A cut-off of 53 ng/ml for IRMA and 16 U/l for ELISA for discriminating between healthy contro ls and NET patients yielded only moderate sensitivities (71.3 and 83%, respectively) and specificities (71 and 85%, respectively). 3.2 Chromogranin related to net The Chromogranin A test is used often as a tumor marker. Many are benign, while some are cancers. They most commonly occur in the intestine, but are also found in th e lung and in the rest of the body. A neuroendocrine tumor is suspected when classical clinical symptoms occur but the large majority of NETs does not show any specific symptomatology (Oberg et al., 1999).