The average cost of a residential appraisal is $375 and usually takes three business days from the time you order it until you receive the final report. The average cost of a commercial appraisal is $1,900 and takes two weeks to complete. However, every piece of real estate is unique and vary in cost & turn time. 
According to MortgageNewsDaily.com, the national average cost for an appraisal by a licensed professional is between $300 and $400 and should require roughly two hours of inspection time to complete. 
The price of a commercial appraisal can vary by hundreds or even thousands of dollars depending on the appraiser. Therefor we put your assignment out for bid with several of our commercial appraisers in the area of your property. Typical Home Appraisal Cost. Actual fees might be higher or lower depending on the specifics of your property. Please call 866-533-7173 or fill out form to your right for a free Quote on the exact fee and turn time.
The cost of a home appraisal can vary greatly, depending on your geographic location. The square footage of the home and the availability of comps may also be significant cost factors. On average, the appraisal of a single family home should be about $327. Hello, Usually appraisal cost's can vary however median price for a Single Family home would be $450.00. Depending on the size of property, it can vary. A Realtor would be able to give you comparable's at no charge if you would like to know how much your home will sell for in today's market.
Appraisal costs can be a key expense for companies seeking to maintain high levels of customer and regulatory satisfaction. Payments for secret shopper salaries, factory floor inspectors and technical screening equipment all fall into this category. Companies pay appraisal costs as part of the quality control process to ensure that their products and services meet customer expectations and regulatory requirements.
Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes. Appraisals that do not require the appraiser to go inside the home are less costly, but they are also less common. Most appraisals require full inspections of a home.
1 The cost of an appraisal depends on the location, type of property, square footage and type of report (which is based on the purpose of the appraisal). 2  New construction, homes larger than 3,500 square feet or properties outside of an appraiser's primary area typically cost more. Tweet. A property appraisal is an independent and unbiased opinion of the value of a parcel of real estate, done by a trained appraiser using standard and approved methods. Appraisals are typically done when buying or refinancing a home or other property, or as part of the property division for an estate or divorce.
DEFINITION of 'Appraisal Costs'. A specific category of quality control costs. Companies pay appraisal costs as part of the quality control process to ensure that their products and services meet customer expectations and regulatory requirements. These costs could include expenses for field tests and inspection