Glycerol Injection. Injection of glycerol into the gasserian ganglion is a simple and effective treatment. Using a brief, intravenous anesthetic a needle is introduced into the nerve in the base of the skull and a small amount of glycerol injected. The treatment only takes a few minutes. Trigeminal neuralgia is usually caused by compression of the sensory (trigeminal) nerve within the skull by a small artery or vein at the point where the nerve joins the brain stem. Sometimes a small, benign tumor compressed the nerve, causing jolts of electrical shock–like pain to radiate into the face.
Procedure Complications: Glycerol injection for trigeminal neuralgia. Possible surgical complications of Glycerol injection for trigeminal neuralgia may include: 1  Unintended nerve damage. 2  Failure to access the trigeminal nerve or gasserion ganglion. 3  Bleeding from puncture site. 4  Apnea. 
Trigeminal glycerol rhizotomy is a technique that causes a chemical lesion to the trigeminal nerve in order to change the way it transmits pain. 
Glycerol Rhizotomy. Glycerol rhizotomy is one treatment option to reduce the pain of trigeminal neuralgia (TN) with an injection (shot) of a chemical called glycerol. He or she then directs the needle tip to the division that is causing your pain. Next, your surgeon injects glycerol into the branch. This procedure selectively damages the nerve in order to interfere with the nerve sending pain signals to your brain.
Glycerol Injections. Glycerol injections offer a low-risk surgical option to patients suffering from trigeminal neuralgia. Glycerol injections are one example of a rhizotomy; that is, a surgical procedure during which selected nerves are damaged to stop pain. Also, Of those injections that provided initial relief, 37% still provided relief after 1 year and 30% after 2 years.. The logistics of the procedure are obviously very straightforward, and because it is so non-invasive, there are relatively few side effects associated with the surgery.
NOTE: Your pain symptoms may get slightly worse after the glycerol injection before you feel any improvement – especially if you have bruising of your cheek. If so, the glycerol injection can take a few weeks to have its full effect. 
A second glycerol injection was carried out in nine patients and a third injection in two patients. The follow-up period extended from 6 to 67 months and 77.8% of patients are totally pain-free after one or more glycerol injections. 
Approximately half of the patients report that their paroxysms disappear immediately after the glycerol injection. In the remaining group, there may be occasional spells during the first postoperative day and sometimes for periods of up to 5 days, after which the neuralgia fades away. Table 142-4 indicates that the incidence of herpes simplex activation after glycerol injection varies considerably among different series. The range of 3–77% for postoperative viral infections probably largely reflects variations in accuracy of follow-up.
Glycerol also prevents the nerve from producing signals by breaking up the nerve fibers. Over time, the pain may return as the nerve repairs and re-myelinates (coats) itself, although studies on rats indicate that examination of phenol-or glycerol-affected nerves can be morphologically distinguished from healthy nerves. Also, Of those injections that provided initial relief, 37% still provided relief after 1 year and 30% after 2 years.. The logistics of the procedure are obviously very straightforward, and because it is so non-invasive, there are relatively few side effects associated with the surgery.
Glycerol injection is the insertion of a chemical (glycerol) into the space around the trigeminal nerve near the brain where the nerve is bathed in spinal fluid. It is not selective for any particular part (division) of the trigeminal nerve and can treat pain in any of the three divisions. Most patients get pain relief from needle rhizotomy. Recurrence may occasionally occur but can be treated by either a repeat needle rhizotomy or another procedure. Rhizotomy refers to the partial damage of a nerve (trigeminal nerve), a maneuver that is well known to relieve the pain of trigeminal neuralgia.