Over the centuries, the Grand Canyon has been many things to many people, such as a shelter for Native American groups, an obstacle to Spanish explorers, and an opportunity for Euro-American miners. However, the Grand Canyon has been an especially important place for the study of geology. During this time, the Grand Canyon became a symbol of American geology and a medium through which to spread geological knowledge around the world. As Stephen Pyne states, “Science dominated Canyon culture, and geology ruled Canyon science” (Pyne 1999: 110).
The geology of the Grand Canyon area includes one of the most complete and studied sequences of rock on Earth. The nearly 40 major sedimentary rock layers exposed in the Grand Canyon and in the Grand Canyon National Park area range in age from about 200 million to nearly 2 billion years old. Most were deposited in warm, shallow seas and near ancient, long-gone sea shores in western North America. Each meter walked on the trail represents one million years of Grand Canyon's geologic history. Bronze markers on the trail mark your location in time. The trail begins at Yavapai Geology Museum at 2 billion years ago, and ends at Verkamp's Visitor Center.
The depth of the main segment of the Grand Canyon varies between 3,000 and 6,000 feet (900 and 1,800 m), with the rim-to-rim width between 4 and 18 miles (6 and 29 km). Its origin has plagued geologists since the time of John Wesley Powell’s first courageous voyage down the Colorado River in 1869. Join a Canyon Ministries guide and one of AiG’s speakers on a once-in-a-lifetime rafting trip and see Grand Canyon from a creationist perspective. The Grand Canyon is one of the world’s most awesome erosional features. It is 277 miles (446 km) long, including the 60 miles (96 km) of Marble Canyon upstream.
Yet the Grand Canyon offers geologists a face-to-face look at three of the four major eras of geological time, providing one of the most complete records of geological history anywhere in the world. During this time, the Grand Canyon became a symbol of American geology and a medium through which to spread geological knowledge around the world. As Stephen Pyne states, “Science dominated Canyon culture, and geology ruled Canyon science” (Pyne 1999: 110).
Carved in the last 6 million years by the Colorado River and its tributaries, Grand Canyon is one of the premier geologic landscapes in the world. 
Width and depth of the Canyon vary from place to place. At the South Rim, near Grand Canyon Village, it's a vertical mile (about 5000 feet/1524 m) from rim to river (7 miles/11.3 km by trails if you're walking). By that standard, Grand Canyon is 277 miles (446 km) long. It begins at Lees Ferry (mile 0)-and ends at the Grand Wash Cliffs (mile 277 (km 446). The Colorado River is longer, of course (1450 miles (2333 km) long) from the Rocky Mountains of Colorado to the Gulf of California in Mexico. Grand Canyon is only one of many beautiful canyons which the river has carved
The Trail of Time is an outdoor geology exhibit and nature trail on the South Rim of Grand Canyon National Park. Each meter walked on the trail represents one million years of Grand Canyon's geologic history. Bronze markers on the trail mark your location in time. The trail begins at Yavapai Geology Museum at 2 billion years ago, and ends at Verkamp's Visitor Center.
The Grand Canyon is 277 miles (446 km) long, up to 18 miles (29 km) wide and attains a depth of over a mile (6,093 feet or 1,857 meters). In 1869, Major John Wesley Powell led the first expedition down the Canyon. Powell set out to explore the Colorado River and the Grand Canyon. Gathering nine men, four boats and food for 10 months, he set out from Green River, Wyoming on May 24.
The canyon’s depth varies from almost a vertical mile from Grand Canyon Village along the South Rim to the river to almost 6,000 feet at other locations along the canyon. The canyon’s width ranges from an average of 10 miles across near Grand Canyon Village but may be as wide as 18 miles across from rim to rim. Over the past 6 million years, the Colorado River has carved through almost 2 billion years of the earth’s geologic history at the Grand Canyon. Layers of limestone, sandstone, shale, granite, and schist make up the Grand Canyon’s rock sequences. We can learn much about the nature, culture, and history of the Grand Canyon and America by taking a closer look at this magnificent river. The Colorado River cuts deeply into the geologic history of