HAARP (High-Frequency Active Auroral Research Program) is a high-powered radio transmission research facility jointly operated by the US Navy, Air Force and several universities. Because of the high secrecy surrounding the government HAARP project, many theories have risen trying to explain what HAARP is and does.
A government project used to control the weather. The msny hurricanes were thought to be results of extensive HAARP testing. HAARP stands for HIGH FREQUENCY ACTIVE AURORAL RESEARCH PROGRAM.
Full Definition of HARP. 1. : a plucked stringed instrument consisting of a resonator, an arched or angled neck that may be supported by a post, and strings of graded length that are perpendicular to the soundboard. 2. : something resembling a harp. 3.
HAARP (High frequency Active Auroral Research Program) is to be a major Arctic facility for upper atmospheric and solar-terrestrial research. HAARP is being built on a DoD-owned site near Gakona, Alaska.
figure 1. Spectrum Analysis of a Typical HAARP Pulse. This graph shows both the signal amplitude, in yellow at the top, and a spectral analysis of the HAARP pulse in the blue/green patterns at the bottom. To listen to the sound file from which this analysis was made use below player panel.
The most prominent instrument at the HAARP Station is the Ionospheric Research Instrument (IRI), a high-power radio frequency transmitter facility operating in the high frequency (HF) band. The IRI is used to temporarily excite a limited area of the ionosphere.
– Quote from a TV documentary on HAARP by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC). HAARP (High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program) is a little-known, yet critically important U.S. military defense program which has generated quite a bit of controversy over the years in certain circles.
At the legislative hearing, HAARP employees focused on HAARP's current power levels, while the researchers on the other side of the controversy focused attention on the direction in which the power levels for the project are heading.
Electromagnetic waves then bounce back onto Earth and penetrate everything-living and dead. HAARP publicity gives the impression that the High-frequency Active Auroral Research Program is mainly an academic project with the goal of changing the ionosphere to improve communications for our own good.