The desert cottontail has brown-gray fur above and lighter fur on its undersides. It has big eyes; a puffy, round tail; and long, wide ears with a little fur in them. The female desert cottontail is usually a little larger than the male. 
The desert cottontail is a type of rabbit that lives in the dry dusty areas of New Mexico, Arizona, and Western Texas. They can also live as far north as Montana, and as far west as California. 2. Name: ____________________________ Reading Comprehension Desert Cottontails The desert cottontail is a type of rabbit that lives in the dry, dusty areas of New Mexico, Arizona, and Western Texas. They can also live as far north as Montana and as far west as California
Many desert animals prey on cottontails, including birds of prey, mustelids, the coyote, the bobcat, the lynx, wolves, mountain lions, snakes, weasels, humans, and even squirrels, should a cottontail be a juvenile, injured or docile. The desert cottontail uses burrows made by rodents rather than making its own. Like all cottontail rabbits, the desert cottontail has a rounded tail with white fur on the underside which is visible as it runs away. It is a light grayish-brown in color, with almost white fur on the belly. Adults are 33 to 43 cm (13 to 17 in) long and weigh up to 1.5 kg (3.3 lb)
SPECIES INFO The Desert Cottontail (Sylvilagus audubonii), also known as Audubon's Cottontail, is a New World cottontail rabbit, a member of the family Leporidae. The Desert Cottontail is found throughout the central United States from eastern Montana to western Texas, and in northern Mexico. Like all the cottontail rabbits, the Desert Cottontail has a rounded tail with white fur on the underside which is visible as it runs away. It is a light grayish-brown in colour, with almost white fur on the belly. Adults are 33 to 43 cm long and weigh up to 1.5 kg.
Management & Conservation: Nevada department of wildlife manages cottontails as an upland game mammal, with a designated hunting season. Natural predators of the cottontail include coyotes, foxes, bobcats, badgers, weasels, red-tailed hawks, golden eagles, great horned owls, and large bullsnakes and rattlesnakes. The adult desert cottontail is light colored, tan to gray, with a yellowish tinge. The underside of the body is whitish. It often has an orange-brown throat patch. The tail is rounded and looks like a cottonball, but is darker above, white below.
The desert cottontail (Sylvilagus audubonii), also known as Audubon's cottontail, is a New World cottontail rabbit, and a member of the family Leporidae. The desert cottontail is found throughout the western United States from eastern Montana to western Texas, and in northern and central Mexico. The desert cottontail uses burrows made by rodents rather than making its own. Like all cottontail rabbits, the desert cottontail has a rounded tail with white fur on the underside which is visible as it runs away. It is a light grayish-brown in color, with almost white fur on the belly. Adults are 33 to 43 cm (13 to 17 in) long and weigh up to 1.5 kg (3.3 lb)
Desert Cottontail Rabbit. Scientific Name: Sylvilagus audubonii. Classification: Small game mammal. Size: Adults may attain the following dimensions: total length 359-435 mm; tail 39-61 mm; hind foot, 82-101 mm; ear 59-69 mm; weight 900-1375 grams. The adult desert cottontail is light colored, tan to gray, with a yellowish tinge. The underside of the body is whitish. It often has an orange-brown throat patch. The tail is rounded and looks like a cottonball, but is darker above, white below.
Rabbits and Hares. Of all the desert-dwelling mammals, the desert cottontail is probably the one you will see most frequently. Preyed upon by everything from snakes to coyotes to owls, most cottontails are killed within their first year. Although the desert cottontail resembles most other cottontails, its ears are much larger. This grey rabbit with rufous nape and white tail weighs around 2 pounds (900 grams). It is the only cottontail in the Sonoran Desert.