A Consulting Arborist is generally referred to as a professional Arborist who provides expert advice and reports to clients regarding trees, often in urban environments and particularly within development sites. 
1 TREE REMOVAL-Arborists can help determine whether or not a tree should be removed, though usually this is a last resort. 2  Arborists have the skills and equipment to safely and efficiently remove trees. 3  Tree removal is dangerous and should be done by a tree care professional. The title ARBORIST refers to a person who has gained the technical competence to correctly and efficiently care for trees and other woody plants.
Christian The Tree Doctor Plunkett is an independent Consulting Arborist with 13 years of experience in the fields of arboriculture and urban forestry. Mr. Plunkett is a graduate of The Pennsylvania State University and holds a BS in urban forestry. He is a member of the International Society of Arboriculture and the American Society of Consulting Arborists. He has distinguished himself within his profession by earning the highly respected ISA Board Certified Master Arborist and New Jersey Certified Tree Expert credentials.
When To Hire an Arborist. 1  TREE PRUNING-Arborists can determine what type of pruning is best for the individual tree to maintain its health and improve its appearance and safety. 2  Also, if pruning requires a ladder and a chainsaw, hire a professional. The title ARBORIST refers to a person who has gained the technical competence to correctly and efficiently care for trees and other woody plants.
To work near power wires either additional training is required for arborists or they need to be Qualified Line Clearance Arborist or Utility Arborists (there may be different terminology for various countries). An arborist's work may involve very large and complex trees, or ecological communities and their abiotic components in the context of the landscape ecosystem. These may require monitoring and treatment to ensure they are healthy, safe, and suitable to property owners or community standards.
Arborists generally focus on the health and safety of individual plants and trees, rather than managing forests (the domains of forestry and silviculture) or harvesting wood. An arborist's scope of work is therefore distinct from that of either a forester or a logger, though the professions share much in common. An arborist's work may involve very large and complex trees, or ecological communities and their abiotic components in the context of the landscape ecosystem. These may require monitoring and treatment to ensure they are healthy, safe, and suitable to property owners or community standards.
An arborist using a chainsaw to cut a eucalyptus tree in a public park. An arborist, or (less commonly) arboriculturist, is a professional in the practice of arboriculture, which is the cultivation, management, and study of individual trees, shrubs, vines, and other perennial woody plants. An arborist's work may involve very large and complex trees, or ecological communities and their abiotic components in the context of the landscape ecosystem. These may require monitoring and treatment to ensure they are healthy, safe, and suitable to property owners or community standards.
Consulting arborists, who are typically certified as well, have the training and experience to render expert opinions on the health and condition of trees. Law firms, homeowners, utilities, planners and developers pay them for their knowledge. 1 Response time: With a team of five certified arborists and tree risk assessors, Tree Solutions can respond to your needs in a timely manner. 2  If one arborist is busy, there is a good chance someone else will be available to get to your site.