What SINEMET is used for SINEMET is used to treat some of the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. This is a disease of the nervous system that mainly affects body movement. The three main symptoms are shaking (tremor), muscle stiffness and slow and unstea
Sinemet ® (carbidopa-levodopa) is a prescription medication used to treat Parkinson's disease. It is also approved to treat parkinsonism (Parkinson-like symptoms) due to encephalitis (inflammation or infection of the brain), manganese poisoning, or carbon monoxide poisoning.
INDICATIONS. SINEMET (carbidopa-levodopa) is indicated in the treatment of the symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (paralysis agitans), post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication and/or manganese intoxication.
What SINEMET is used for. SINEMET is used to treat some of the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. This is a disease of the nervous system that mainly affects body movement. The three main symptoms are shaking (tremor), muscle stiffness and slow and unstea
(carbidopa-levodopa) Tablets. SINEMET® (carbidopa-levodopa) is a combination of carbidopa and levodopa for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and syndrome. Carbidopa, an inhibitor of aromatic amino acid decarboxylation, is a white, crystalline compound, slightly soluble in water, with a molecular weight of 244.3.
Sinemet (Levodopa/Carbidopa). Levodopa (also called L-dopa) is the most commonly prescribed and most effective drug for controlling the symptoms of Parkinson's disease, particularly bradykinesia and rigidity. Levodopa is transported to the nerve cells in the brain that produce dopamine.
Levodopa changes into dopamine in the brain, helping to control movement. Carbidopa prevents the breakdown of levodopa in the bloodstream so more levodopa can enter the brain. Carbidopa can also reduce some of levodopa's side effects such as nausea and vomiting.
Uses. This combination medication is used to treat symptoms of Parkinson's disease or Parkinson-like symptoms (such as shakiness, stiffness, difficulty moving). Parkinson's disease is thought to be caused by too little of a naturally occurring substance (dopamine) in the brain.