In 1918, President Woodrow Wilson was toying with the idea of the concept of a League of Nations and other ideas that were brought up in his 14 points. However there was alot of jealousy that in going to Europe that Wilson had not encouraged any bi-partisin support across congress and the senate. 
On Nov. 19, 1919, the Senate voted on the treaty, first on a version with the 14 Lodge reservations. President Wilson ordered his supporters to vote against that version and, with the irreconcilables also voting against it, it fell short of a two-thirds majority by a 55-39 vote. On March 19, 1920, the United States Senate rejected for the second time the Treaty of Versailles, by a vote of 49-35, falling seven votes short of a two-thirds majority needed for approval. The Treaty of Versailles was a formal peace treaty between the World War I Allies and Germany.
This resulted in the U.S. never signing the Treaty of Versailles and never joining the League of Nations, the U.S. did however, agree to a separate peace treaty with Germany in August 1921 named the Treaty of Berlin. Answer   Yes, Germany eventually signed the Treaty of Versailles on June 28, 1919. They did not approve of it, however, and refused to accept it at first.
They did not. Hitler made an alliance with Austria. The Treaty of Versailles said that Germany was not allowed to unite with Austria, her German speaking neighbour, and create one German nation. Hitler did it anyway. The Treaty of Versailles was one of the peace treaties at the end  of World War I. It ended the war between Germany and the Allied  Powers. It was signed on June 28, 1919, e … xactly five years after  the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, one of the events  that triggered the start of the war.
Americans were also uneasy about Wilson's scheme for a League of Nations. They were concerned that belonging to the League would drag the USA into international disputes that were not their concern. In the end, the Congress rejected the Treaty of Versailles and the League of Nations. The terms of the Treaty of Versailles were announced in June 1919. The German politicians were not consulted about the terms of the Treaty. They were shown the draft terms in May 1919.
Best Answer: Here are three reasons Wilson failed to gain passage of Treaty of Versaille (with its League of Nations provision): 1) Wilson refused to accept ANY of the Senate's fourteen proposed reservations/modifications... with which it most certainly would have passed. 
In place of the Treaty of Versailles, in 1921 Congress passed a resolution, known as the Knox–Porter Resolution, to formally end the war with Germany. The United States would never join the League of Nations, which was just one of several problems the organization would have in building power and credibility. On March 19, 1920, the United States Senate rejected for the second time the Treaty of Versailles, by a vote of 49-35, falling seven votes short of a two-thirds majority needed for approval. The Treaty of Versailles was a formal peace treaty between the World War I Allies and Germany.
The treaty was signed by representatives of each country in June 1919. For the U.S. to accept its conditions, however, it had to be ratified by Congress. Senate Majority Leader Henry Cabot Lodge, a Republican from Massachusetts, opposed the treaty, specifically the section regarding the League of Nations. The Treaty of Versailles was the formal peace treaty that ended World War I between the Allies and Germany, their main enemy during the war. It included a provision, championed by U.S. President Woodrow Wilson, for the creation of an international body called
Representatives of each country signed the treaty in June 1919. For the United States to accept its conditions, however, it had to be ratified by Congress. The Senate majority leader, Henry Cabot Lodge, a Republican from Massachusetts, opposed the treaty, specifically the section regarding the League of Nations. On March 19, 1920, the United States Senate rejected for the second time the Treaty of Versailles, by a vote of 49-35, falling seven votes short of a two-thirds majority needed for approval. The Treaty of Versailles was a formal peace treaty between the World War I Allies and Germany.