The Service Center Agencies (SCA) include Farm Service Agency, Natural Resources Conservation Service, and Rural Development. For your convenience we have provided several services online. If you are new to the site and would like to obtain a USDA Service Center Customer ID and password, please Register now. Several online services do not require an ID and password. eForms. Why go down to your local service center-go here to find the forms you need and submit them electronically.
The USDA Guaranteed Loan Program provides one of the most affordable loan programs to Americans today. This is a great program for those that qualify because it is a 100% financing program, meaning there is no down payment required. USDA Home Loans can be used to purchase or refinance your home. 
The USDA Guaranteed Loan Program is a federal program offered through the United States Department of Agriculture. Rural Housing through the USDA program provides a number of homeownership opportunities to rural Americans, as well as programs for home renovation and repair. This is an excellent product and benefit for those individuals that qualify. Rural Housing also offers 100% financing opportunities for those who qualify.
With a USDA loan, you don't have to make a downpayment; and you're required to take a fixed rate loan. ARMs aren't available via the USDA rural loan program. Rural loans can be used by first-time buyers and repeat home buyers alike. USDA upfront mortgage insurance is not paid as cash. It's added to your loan balance for you. USDA mortgage insurance rates are lower than those for comparable FHA loans or conventional ones. FHA mortgage insurance premiums assess a 1.75% upfront mortgage insurance premium; and add 0.85% in MIP annually.
However, for eligible suburban and rural home buyers, the USDA loan is a 100%, no-money down mortgage loan. The program's full name is the USDA Rural Development Guaranteed Housing Loan program, but most people call them USDA loans, Rural Housing Loans or Section 502 loans. USDA upfront mortgage insurance is not paid as cash. It's added to your loan balance for you. USDA mortgage insurance rates are lower than those for comparable FHA loans or conventional ones. FHA mortgage insurance premiums assess a 1.75% upfront mortgage insurance premium; and add 0.85% in MIP annually.
**NOTICE A70: RANLife Home Loans is funding the USDA Pilot Program. This program allows you to skip a mortgage payment, lower your interest rate by more than a percentage point, and you don't have to get a home appraisal. Call a representative to see if you qualify 800.461.4152 .**. Rural Housing through the USDA program provides a number of homeownership opportunities to rural Americans, as well as programs for home renovation and repair. This is an excellent product and benefit for those individuals that qualify. Rural Housing also offers 100% financing opportunities for those who qualify.
The USDA Rural Development Home Loan is a flexible zero down payment government guaranteed program that is growing in popularity. It is designed to promote homeownership to residents in rural communities with low to moderate incomes and who have limited savings for a down payment. 
More. No money down, better rates than an FHA loan, and the ability to finance closing costs. It may sound too good to be true, but in fact it’s a U.S. Department of Agriculture guaranteed rural development loan, and now is your best chance to get one. Before we get into the details, a bit of background.
Yes, the USDA will let you finance your Upfront Mortgage Insurance payment into your loan size. For example, if you bought a home for $100,000 and borrowed the full $100,000 from your lender, your Upfront Mortgage Insurance would be $2,000. You could then raise your loan size to $102,000. USDA upfront mortgage insurance is not paid as cash. It's added to your loan balance for you. USDA mortgage insurance rates are lower than those for comparable FHA loans or conventional ones. FHA mortgage insurance premiums assess a 1.75% upfront mortgage insurance premium; and add 0.85% in MIP annually.