There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is especially prominent in cells such as hepatocytes. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
Definition of the Smooth ER. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum, or smooth ER, is an organelle found in both animal cells and plant cells. An organelle is a sub-unit within a cell that has a specialized function. The main function of the smooth ER is to make cellular products like hormones and lipids
These ions are released from the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. SUMMARY. Organelles called ‘rough endoplasmic reticulum’ and ‘smooth endoplasmic reticulum’ are separate networks of membrane enclosed flattened tubules found in eukaryotic animal and plant cells. It is ‘smooth’ because it is not studded with ribosomes and is associated with smooth slippery fats. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. About 50% of the total membrane surface in an animal cell is provided by endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
Smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types and it serves different functions in each. It consists of tubules and vesicles that branch forming a network. In some cells there are dilated areas like the sacs of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The network of smooth endoplasmic reticulum allows increased surface area for the action or storage of key enzymes and the products of these enzymes. In the case of smooth endoplasmic reticulum in muscle cells, the vesicles and tubules serve as a store of calcium which is released as one step in the contraction process. Calcium pumps serve to move the calcium.
The Endoplasmic Reticulum The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a network of flattened sacs and branching tubules that extends throughout the cytoplasm in plant and animal cells. Most proteins exported from the endoplasmic reticulum exit the organelle in vesicles budded from the smooth portion, which has a more even appearance than rough endoplasmic reticulum when viewed through the electron microscope because of the lack of ribosomes.
In some cells, there are dilated areas like the sacs of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The network of smooth endoplasmic reticulum allows for an increased surface area to be devoted to the action or storage of key enzymes and the products of these enzymes. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
Endoplasmic Reticulum. Photo by: Lemonade. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a series of interconnected membranes or flattened sacs adjacent and connected to the nuclear membrane. The ER comes in two different morphological forms: smooth endoplasmic reticulum (sER) and rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER). 
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: rough endoplasmic reticulum (rough ER) and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth ER). Both types are present in plant and animal cells. The two types of ER are separate entities and are not joined together. It is ‘smooth’ because it is not studded with ribosomes and is associated with smooth slippery fats. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. About 50% of the total membrane surface in an animal cell is provided by endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The other region is called smooth ER because it lacks attached ribosomes. Typically, the smooth ER is a tubule network and the rough ER is a series of flattened sacs. The space inside of the ER is called the lumen.