Noun. 1. phosphocreatine-an organic compound of creatine and phosphoric acid; found in the muscles of vertebrates where its hydrolysis releases energy for muscular contraction. creatine phosphate, creatine phosphoric acid. organic compound-any compound of carbon and another element or a radical. 
Creatine kinase (CK) — also known as creatine phosphokinase (CPK) or phospho-creatine kinase — is an enzyme (EC 2.7.3.2) expressed by various tissues and cell types. CK catalyses the conversion of creatine and utilizes adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to create phosphocreatine (PCr) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP). This CK enzyme reaction is reversible and thus ATP can be generated from PCr and ADP.
Phosphocreatine is a substance that, in its chemical partnership with adenosine triphosphate (ATP), is fundamental to the ability of the body to produce muscular energy. When phosphocreatine in the muscle breaks down, it is not reprocessed into a working form. Phosphocreatine metabolizes into a substance known as creatinine, which is excreted through the kidneys and passed as urine.
Medical Definition of PHOSPHOCREATINE. : a compound C4H10N3O5P of creatine and phosphoric acid that is found especially in vertebrate muscle where it is an energy source for muscle contraction—called also creatine phosphate. : a compound C4H10N3O5P of creatine and phosphoric acid that is found especially in vertebrate muscle where it is an energy source for muscle contraction. ADVERTISEMENT.
As the name suggests the ATP-PC system consists of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and phosphocreatine (PC). This energy system provides immediate energy through the breakdown of these stored high energy phosphates. 
Phosphocreatine, which is also known as creatine phosphate is a compound constructed of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and phosphorus, in the molecular structure C 4 H 10 N 3 O 5 P. Phosphocreatine is formed naturally within the body, with over 95% of the compound stored within the muscle cells. When phosphocreatine in the muscle breaks down, it is not reprocessed into a working form. Phosphocreatine metabolizes into a substance known as creatinine, which is excreted through the kidneys and passed as urine.
Creatine readily combines with phosphate to form phosphocreatine, or creatine phosphate, which is present in muscle, where it serves as the storage form of high-energy phosphate necessary for muscle contraction. creatine kinase an enzyme catalyzing the transfer of a phosphate group from phosphocreatine to ATP. It has three isoenzymes: CK 1, found primarily in the brain; CK 2, found in the myocardium; and CK 3, found in both skeletal muscle and the myocardium. creatine kinase (krē´ətēn´ kī´nās´) , n an enzyme in muscle, brain, and other tissues that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group from adenosine triphosphate to creatine, producing adenosine diphosphate and phosphocreatine.
phosphocreatine. a compound of creatine and phosphoric acid occurring in muscle, being the most important storage form of high-energy phosphate, the energy source in muscle contraction. phosphocreatine. a compound of creatine and phosphoric acid occurring in muscle, being an important storage form of chemical bond energy, an
Phosphocreatine, also known as creatine phosphate (CP) or PCr (Pcr), is a phosphorylated creatine molecule that serves as a rapidly mobilizable reserve of high-energy phosphates in skeletal muscle and the brain. Phosphocreatine can anaerobically donate a phosphate group to ADP to form ATP during the first 2 to 7 seconds following an intense muscular or neuronal effort. Conversely, excess ATP can be used during a period of low effort to convert creatine to phosphocreatine.
Definition of PHOSPHOCREATINE. : a compound C4H10N3O5P of creatine and phosphoric acid that is found especially in vertebrate muscle where it is an energy source for muscle contraction. ADVERTISEMENT. International Scientific Vocabulary