Cowpea has a number of common names, including crowder pea, blackeyed pea, southern pea, and internationally as lubia, niebe, coupe or frijole. However, they are all the species Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., which in older references may be identified as Vigna sinensis (L.). Production costs for cowpea are very similar to soybeans, with the primary difference(s) being post-harvest cleaning and/or transportation. If several Indiana farmers worked together on a common delivery point for dried blackeye or purpleeye peas, transportation costs could be reduced.
Today, cowpea is cultivated throughout the tropics and subtropics between 35ºN and 30ºS, across Asia and Oceania, the Middle East, southern Europe, Africa, southern USA, and Central and South America. It is one of the most important tropical dual-purpose legumes, being used for vegetables (leaves and flowers), grain, as fresh cut and carry forage, and for hay and silage. Mixing of different cowpea varieties for food and feed purposes is common in northern Nigeria.
Alternate Scientific Names: Vigna sinensis (L.) Savi, Uses Commercial crop: Cowpea is commonly cultivated as a nutritious and highly palatable food source in the southern United States, Middle East, Africa, Asia, and throughout the tropics and subtropics. Wildlife: Cowpea is eaten by deer as forage, and is commonly used in food plots for deer. A variety of birds, including wild turkey, eat the seeds and the plant can be used by quail as cover. Some varieties of cowpea are used specifically for wildlife purposes (Ball et al., 2007).
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is one of the most popular grain legumes in Africa as well as in some regions of America and Asia. The main subspecies is Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. subsp. unguiculata (L.) Walp. Cowpea is often called black-eyed pea due to its black-or brown-ringed hylum. Cowpea is called the hungry-season crop because it is the first crop to be harvested before the cereal crops (Gomez, 2004). Its fresh or dried seeds, pods and leaves are commonly used as human food
Cowpea has a number of common names, including crowder pea, black-eyed pea and southern pea. It is known internationally as lubia, niebe, coupe or frijole. However, they are all the species Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., which in older references may be identified as Vigna sinensis (L.). 
Common names. cowpea, caupi, southern pea, tua dam, kunde, ni b, blackeye pea, alac n, pericillo, caritas, cabecita negra, macassar bean, rope bean, fr jol (Venezuela), Augenbohne or Kuhbohne (Germany). It is one of the most important tropical dual-purpose legumes, being used for vegetables (leaves and flowers), grain, as fresh cut and carry forage, and for hay and silage. Mixing of different cowpea varieties for food and feed purposes is common in northern Nigeria.
The cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is one of several species of the widely cultivated genus Vigna. Four subspecies are recognised, of which three are cultivated (more exist, including V. textilis, V. pubescens, and V. sinensis): According to the USDA food database, the leaves of the cowpea plant have the highest percentage of calories from protein among vegetarian foods.
Callosobruchus maculatus is a species of beetle known commonly as the cowpea weevil or cowpea seed beetle. It is a member of the leaf beetle family, Chrysomelidae, and not a true weevil. This common pest of stored legumes has a cosmopolitan distribution, occurring on every continent except Antarctica. The bean beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus, oviposit their eggs on the cowpea bean. The varieties of cowpea that are most common for the beetle to lay their eggs on are black eyed peas, mung beans, and adzuki beans.
The first written reference using cowpea appeared in 1798 in the United States. The name was most likely acquired due to their use as a fodder crop for cows. The common name of black-eyed pea, used for the unguiculata cultivar group, describes the presence of a distinctive black spot at the hilum of the seed. According to the USDA food database, the leaves of the cowpea plant have the highest percentage of calories from protein among vegetarian foods.
I. History: Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.), an annual legume, is also commonly referred to as southern pea, blackeye pea, crowder pea, lubia, niebe, coupe or frijole. Cowpea originated in Africa and is widely grown in Africa, Latin America, Southeast Asia and in the southern United States.