All the gas giants in our solar system, including Neptune have rings. The rings of Neptune are made up of fairly small, very dark clumps of rock. Scientists believe that most of these clumps are about the size of a small car. There is also a large amount of dust in the rings. One of the rings has a twist in it. Neptune is about 49500 kilometers. in diameter, about four times the size of Earth, which is about 12800 kilometers. in diameter. Neptune and Uranus are almost the same size, but both seem tiny in comparison to mighty Jupiter, which is almost three times as large as either of them.
Atmospheric composition. Neptune's atmosphere is made up predominately of hydrogen and helium, with some methane. The methane is part of what gives Neptune its brilliant blue tint, as it absorbs red light and reflects bluer colors. Uranus also has methane in its atmosphere, but has a duller shading. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Scientist used math to find Neptune. They saw neptune up in the sky and couldn't believe it. They did some calculations on where neptune would be an looked again and found out that neptune was right there. They named it Neptune because of the Roman god Neptune. He was the god of the blue seas. Neptune was created by many gases that formed into one big planet. They say Neptune was also created by the big bang theory. The gases are called hydrogen, helium, water, and … ammonia. Improvement: Just to clarify-the gases actually formed into one big planet as a result of the Big Bang Theory.
Neptune's interior composition is primarily methane ice. Motions in the interior of Neptune help form the magnetosphere of Neptune. Heat generated within Neptune helps form the unusual winds of the atmosphere, which shows a striped pattern of clouds. This cloud pattern is very similar to that of Jupiter and Saturn. In Neptune, the gas part of the planet is much bigger than the rocky part. That is because the amount of gas and ice which came to Neptune in the beginning, depended upon where Neptune was in the original solar cloud. So, there is not an easily accesible solid surface to land in Neptune.
Mars and Venus also have metallic cores. Scientists believe Saturn, Uranus and Neptune each must have some sort of core as well. Jupiter’s core, however, is still an open question. “In the mid-1980s, the belief was that the cores of Jupiter and Saturn were both large – about 10 to 30 Earth masses,” says Boss. 
Scientist used math to find Neptune. They saw neptune up in the sky and couldn't believe it. They did some calculations on where neptune would be an looked again and found out … that neptune was right there. They named it Neptune because of the Roman god Neptune. He was the god of the blue seas. 
Nearly 4.5 billion kilometers (3 billion miles) from the Sun, Neptune orbits the Sun once in 165 years, and therefore has made not quite a full circle around the Sun since it was discovered. With an equatorial diameter of 49,528 kilometers (30,775 miles), Neptune is the smallest of our solar system's gas giants. In the summer of 1989, NASA's Voyager 2 became the first spacecraft to observe the planet Neptune, its final planetary target. Passing about 4,950 kilometers (3,000 miles) above Neptune's north pole, Voyager 2 made its closest approach to any planet since leaving Earth 12 years earlier.