Scientists on a research vessel in the Gulf of Mexico are finding a substantial layer of oily sediment stretching for dozens of miles in all directions. Their discovery suggests that a lot of oil from the Deepwater Horizon didn't simply evaporate or dissipate into the water — it has settled to the seafloor. Joye can't yet say with certainty that the oily layer is from BP's blown-out well. The organisms that break down oil excrete mucus — copious amounts of mucus. So it's kind of like a slime highway from the surface to the bottom.
Over the weekend, she wrote that her team found a layer of oil in a valley on the seafloor, about 18 miles from the wellhead. It is two inches thick in some spots, and it rests on top of recently dead sea creatures like shrimp and tubeworms. Researchers on board a ship in the Gulf of Mexico have found a layer of oil at least two inches thick, nestled in the depths a mile below the surface, that they believe came from the blown-out BP well.
A core sample from the seafloor of the Gulf of Mexico shows a 2-inch layer of oily material. Researchers are finding oil on the seafloor miles away from the blown-out BP well. Joye can't yet say with certainty that the oily layer is from BP's blown-out well. The organisms that break down oil excrete mucus — copious amounts of mucus. So it's kind of like a slime highway from the surface to the bottom.
That sticky material can pick up oil particles as it sinks. Joye can't yet say with certainty that the oily layer is from BP's blown-out well. The organisms that break down oil excrete mucus — copious amounts of mucus. So it's kind of like a slime highway from the surface to the bottom. Because eventually the slime gets heavy and
Crude oil is a liquid found naturally in rock, containing mostly complex hydrocarbons, with some additional organic material. It is the major fuel used on the planet, and is used in the production of many synthetic materials like plastics as well. Dubai-Oman oil is used as a benchmark for sour crude oil in the Middle East. A pumpjack brings oil to the surface. Crude oil is a mixture of complex hydrocarbons that is extracted from beneath the Earth's surface. An oil well. Crude oil can be refined into other petroleum products.
The oil and natural gas that power our homes, transportation and businesses are found in small spaces (called “pores”) between layers of rock deep within the Earth. Many offshore wells, for example, are drilled in thousands of feet of water and penetrate tens of thousands of feet into the sediments below the sea floor. Most observers agree that significant deposits of oil and gas remain undiscovered in the Middle East. The largest reserves of natural gas are found in Russia, Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, the United States, Algeria, Nigeria, Venezuela and Iraq.
The oil-water fluid fills the spaces between the grains. Above an oil reservoir is a layer of shale or other fine-grained rock through which water or oil cannot pass. This layer acts like a seal or cap over the actual reservoir. Some Illinois reservoirs are found in dolomite. This rock is similar to limestone but has been chemically altered. 
All oil and gas deposits are found in structural or stratigraphic traps. You may have heard that oil is found underground in “pools,” “lakes,” or “rivers.” Maybe someone told you there was a “sea” or “ocean” of oil underground. This is all completely wrong, so don’t believe everything you hear.
petroleum, rock oil (mid-14c. in Anglo-French), from Medieval Latin petroleum, from Latin: petra : rock + oleum : oil. ) is a naturally occurring, yellow-to-black liquid found in geological formations beneath the Earth 's surface, which is commonly refined into various types of fuels. Petroleum is a mixture of a very large number of different hydrocarbons; the most commonly found molecules are alkanes (paraffins), cycloalkanes (naphthenes), aromatic hydrocarbons, or more complicated chemicals like asphaltenes.