Your doctor may order an X-ray of your ankle. In some cases, he or she will remove fluid from the joint using a needle. You may be given nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, braces, or other special protective gear. In severe cases, ankle pain may require surgery. 1 Use crutches or a cane if you have to walk or move. 2  Ice — Begin by putting a bag of ice on your ankle for at least 20 minutes at a time. 3  Do this three to five times a day for three days after the injury. 4  This helps reduce swelling and numb pain.
1 If the pain is severe, you may need crutches until it goes away. 2  Ice your ankle to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 15-20 minutes every two to three hours for two days, or until the swelling is improved. 4  After that, ice it once a day until you have no other symptoms. To speed the healing, you can do the following: 1  Rest the ankle. 2  Ice your ankle to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Compress your ankle. 4  Elevate your ankle on a pillow when you’re sitting or lying down. 5  Use braces or ankle stirrups to give your ankle support. 6  Take anti-inflammatory painkillers. 7  Practice stretching and strengthening exercises if your ...
In some cases, you will need to visit your doctor due to your ankle pain. You should check in with your doctor if your pain does not go away after a few weeks, or if the swelling in your ankle does not go down in two to three days. You will also need to see your doctor if you develop an infection in your ankle. 1 Use crutches or a cane if you have to walk or move. 2  Ice — Begin by putting a bag of ice on your ankle for at least 20 minutes at a time. 3  Do this three to five times a day for three days after the injury. 4  This helps reduce swelling and numb pain.
Ankle pain is most commonly caused by an ankle sprain, but there can be numerous other causes for the pain. In most cases, there has been an injury to the bones, ligaments, or tendons within the ankle. Other causes of ankle pain include: 1  Ankle instability. 2  Gout. 3  Pseudogout (this condition is similar to gout; it is characterized by calcium deposits in one or more joints that cause pain, redness, and swelling).
1 Ice your ankle to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 15-20 minutes every two to three hours for two days, or until the swelling is improved. 3  After that, ice it once a day until you have no other symptoms. To speed the healing, you can do the following: 1  Rest the ankle. 2  Ice your ankle to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Compress your ankle. 4  Elevate your ankle on a pillow when you’re sitting or lying down. 5  Use braces or ankle stirrups to give your ankle support. 6  Take anti-inflammatory painkillers. 7  Practice stretching and strengthening exercises if your ...
1 Avoid putting weight on your ankle as best you can. 2  If the pain is severe, you may need crutches until it goes away. 3  Ice your ankle to reduce pain and swelling. 4  Do it for 15-20 minutes every two to three hours for two days, or until the swelling is improved. To speed the healing, you can do the following: 1  Rest the ankle. 2  Ice your ankle to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Compress your ankle. 4  Elevate your ankle on a pillow when you’re sitting or lying down. 5  Use braces or ankle stirrups to give your ankle support. 6  Take anti-inflammatory painkillers. 7  Practice stretching and strengthening exercises if your ...
Ankle pain refers to any type of pain or discomfort in your ankles. This pain could be caused by an injury, like a sprain, or by a medical condition, such as arthritis. 1 Use crutches or a cane if you have to walk or move. 2  Ice — Begin by putting a bag of ice on your ankle for at least 20 minutes at a time. 3  Do this three to five times a day for three days after the injury. 4  This helps reduce swelling and numb pain.
If your pain is in your heel, you may have plantar fasciitis. That’s an irritation or inflammation of the band of tough tissue connecting the heel bone to the toes. Usually, it hurts the worst in the morning when you’re getting out of bed. You can feel it in your heel or in your arch. To treat it: 1  Rest your foot. 2  Do heel and foot muscle stretches. 3  Take over-the-counter pain relievers. People with flat feet or high arches are more likely to have painful heel spurs. To treat them: 1  Wear a cutout heel pad. 2  Use a custom-made insert (called an orthotic) worn in the shoe. 3  Wear shoes that fit well and have shock-absorbing soles. 4  Take over-the-counter pain relievers. 5  Rest your foot. 6  Try physical therapy.