In California, a judgment is valid for 10 years, and can be renewed indefinitely. Other States vary from 7 to 25 years. (Federal judgments expire either in 20 years, or at the same time a state judgment would expire-in the state where the Federal judgment was obtained.). Almost always, if a judgment expires, and was not renewed-it is worthless.
The time period is usually starts running from: the date of entry of the judgment. the date that a creditor last tried to execute (collect) on the judgment, or. the later date of either event. (To learn more about judgments, including how creditors get them, visit our Creditor Lawsuits topic area. Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), a judgment can show up on your credit report for at least seven years. It can show up even longer, depending on how much time your state's laws give effect to that judgment. For example, if a judgment was filed against you in Arizona, it is good for five years
A judgment from a County Court is good for 6 years and a judgment from District Court is good for 20 years. You can even extend the time the judgment is good for by filing a Motion to Revive Judgment before the end of the 6 years for County Court or 20 years for District Court. You can continue to try to collect on your judgment for as long as it is effective (good) and unpaid.  A judgment received in County Court is good for 6 years from the date it was entered. A judgment received in District Court is good for 20 years from the date it was entered. You may collect your judgment for as long as it is effective (good) and has not been paid in full.  If your judgment is still unpaid at the end of the 6 years (County Court) or 20 years (District Court), you can extend the time it will be effective by filing a Motion to Revive Judgment before the 6 or 20 years ends
That depends on the laws of your state, and the method that the creditor uses to try and collect on that judgment. Usually, judgments are valid for several years before they expire or “lapse.” In some states, a judgment is effective between five to seven years. Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), a judgment can show up on your credit report for at least seven years. It can show up even longer, depending on how much time your state's laws give effect to that judgment. For example, if a judgment was filed against you in Arizona, it is good for five
Once someone obtains a money judgment in California it will last for 10 years. At the end of 10 years, the judgment is no longer enforceable, unless it has been renewed. California laws specify that you can renew a judgment during the tenth year. 
How Long a Judgment Is Valid. You have 10 years to enforce your judgment. But, if you cannot collect the whole judgment in that time, you can get 10 more years to collect the debt. File a form called Application For and Renewal of Judgment (EJ -190) and Notice of Renewal of Judgment (EJ-195) . 
Some federal judgments are good for 20 years before renewal is required. However, some states have decided to use their own limits: for example, in Florida, the limit is five years. Generally, one must wait two weeks before starting to enforce a federal judgment. A federal judgment can be moved to a state superior court, if you start and win a new lawsuit in state court. If you start a new lawsuit in state court, there are few shortcuts, the debtor must be personally served, and can contest the lawsuit, and a motion for summary judgment must be won.
Garnishing MoneyGarnishment is a court procedure allowing you to collect your judgment directly from the judgment debtor’s wages, bank account, income tax refunds, or other sources. In a garnishment proceeding the judgment debtor is the called the defendant and the judgment creditor is called the plaintiff. For garnishing income tax, contact the Michigan Department of Treasury at (517) 636-5333. 1 For all other cases, you will have to send the judgment to the judgment debtor. 2  The judgment will order the judgment debtor to pay you in full within 21 days or tell you and the court where s/he works and the location of his/her bank accounts.