While Thomas Savery patented the first crude steam engine in 1698. Thomas Newcomen improved on this design. However, it wasn't until Scotsman James Watt improved on the steam engine in the second half of the 18th century that it became a truly viable piece of machinery that helped start the Industrial Revolution. Details about the Steam Engine: Basically, a steam engine is able to harness the energy of steam to move machinery. It is a fairly clean source of energy. Steam engines were used to great effect to run locomotives and steamships.
James Watt, in 1781, patented steam engine that produced continued rotary motion and the power about 10 hp. It was the first type of steam engine to make use of steam at a pressure just above atmospheric to drive the piston helped by a partial vacuum. A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid. Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back over 2000 years, but early devices were not practical. The Spanish inventor Jeronimo jerónimo De ayanz Y beaumont patented in 1606 the first steam. Engine in 1698 Thomas savery patented a steam pump that used steam in direct contact with the water being. pumped
A steam engine is a machine that burns coal to release the heat energy it contains—so it's an example of what we call a heat engine. It's a bit like a giant kettle sitting on top of a coal fire. The heat from the fire boils the water in the kettle and turns it into steam. Photo: Close-up of the piston and cylinder in a steam engine. Our diagram up above shows a very simple, one-cylinder steam engine powering a steam locomotive down a track. This is called a rotary steam engine, because the piston's job is to make a wheel rotate.
The atmospheric engine invented by Thomas Newcomen in 1712, often referred to simply as a Newcomen engine, was the first practical device to harness the power of steam to produce mechanical work. Newcomen engines were used throughout Britain and Europe, principally to pump water out of mines. 
The high consumption of coal which was common in Newcomen’s steam engine was reduced through innovations in engine design by James Watt. The low pressure engine’s cylinder contained heat insulation, a separate condenser, and a pumping out mechanism for condensed water. The basic principle on which the initial steam engines worked on was “condensation of water vapor to create a vacuum”. Thomas Savery and the First Industrial Engines. Thomas Savery was the first person to invent a steam pump for the purpose of pumping out water in 1698.
Another model of the steam engine was produced by Thomas Newcomen in 1712. This engine also used steam to pump water out of coal mines. The pump used a single cylinder. Hot, high-pressure steam moved into the cylinder and pushed the piston up. Cool, condensed air formed a vacuum in the cylinder and forced the piston down.
In 1781 James Watt patented a steam engine that produced continuous rotary motion. Watt's ten-horsepower engines enabled a wide range of manufacturing machinery to be powered. The engines could be sited anywhere that water and coal or wood fuel could be obtained. A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid. Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back over 2000 years, but early devices were not practical. The Spanish inventor Jeronimo jerónimo De ayanz Y beaumont patented in 1606 the first steam. Engine in 1698 Thomas savery patented a steam pump that used steam in direct contact with the water being. pumped
The first crude steam powered machine was built by Thomas Savery, of England, in 1698. Savery built his machine to help pump water out of coal mines. This machine was so simple that it had no moving parts. It also used up lots and lots of coal just to pump a small quantity of water. The next stage in the history of the steam engine was a result of the work of Thomas Newcomen, also of England. Newcomen knew that there must be a way of improvingon Savery's inefficient steam powered pump. Newcomen built a machine where the steam actually pushed a movable piston in one direction.
Steam engines were also used in the textile industry. Boulton and Watt steam engines were used to operate spinning machines. A steam-powered spinning machine could produce vast quantities of yarn very quickly. The first steam-powered textile factory was opened in Nottingham in 1790. This engine also used steam to pump water out of coal mines. The pump used a single cylinder. Hot, high-pressure steam moved into the cylinder and pushed the piston up. Cool, condensed air formed a vacuum in the cylinder and forced the piston down.