lardon. n. 1. (Cookery) a strip or cube of fat or bacon used in larding meat. [C15: from Old French, from lard]. (ˈlɑr dn). 
Lardon. Lardon is a small strip or cube of pork fat used in a wide variety of cuisines to flavor savory foods and salads. In French cuisine, lardons are also used for larding, by threading them with a needle into meats that are to be braised or roasted. 
Lardon, also called lardoon, larding needle or larding, is a small strip or cube of pork fat (usually subcutaneous fat) used in a wide variety of cuisines to flavor savory foods and salads. In French cuisine, lardons are also used for larding, by threading them with a needle into meats that are to be braised or roasted. Since the true French lardon is salt-cured but not smoked, the flavor comes through cleanly, more like ham but richer because the meat is from the belly of the pig, not the leg. One food writer takes this as evidence that the French do bacon right.
Subscribe Now: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/Cookingguide. Cutting bacon strips into lardons is something that can be done by trimming the ends and cutting the bacon into strips. Cut bacon strips into lardons with help from a celebrity chef, cookbook author and etiquette consultant in this free video clip. Expert: Carolyn Shelton. 
A traditional use for lardons is in a technique called larding, in which long strips of chilled pork fat are threaded (with the use of a needle) into meats that are to be braised or roasted, such as beef filets or veal (especially lean cuts), poultry, and lean fish such as salmon. Since the true French lardon is salt-cured but not smoked, the flavor comes through cleanly, more like ham but richer because the meat is from the belly of the pig, not the leg. One food writer takes this as evidence that the French do bacon right.
Narrow strips of fat used to lard meats and used to flavor dishes such as quiches or salads or rendered with onion as a base for soup of pasta sauces. The French also use the term lardon to refer to bacon that has been diced, blanched and fried. Plural: Lardons. Season: available year-round. 
The Oxford English Dictionary defines lardon as one of the pieces of bacon or pork which are inserted in meat in the process of larding, giving primacy to that process. Since the true French lardon is salt-cured but not smoked, the flavor comes through cleanly, more like ham but richer because the meat is from the belly of the pig, not the leg. One food writer takes this as evidence that the French do bacon right.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. A lardon is a cube of meat which is usually high in fat and used to add flavor to many dishes. Generally, bacon is used to make lardons, but general pork lardons are also common. When cooked, a lardon will reduce in size as a result of the fat melting out of it. Either smoked or un-smoked bacon can be chopped up into lardons. Any fatty cube of meat can be classed as a lardon, but generally pork fat is used. The saltiness from the fat and the meat itself is what adds flavor to whatever dishes are created.