Welcome to the LoopNet.com Leo Commercial Real Estate page. Find Leo, Indiana commercial real estate for sale and for lease on the Internet's largest commercial real estate marketplace online. LoopNet's Leo listings cover all desired property types, including Land for Sale, Multifamily Apartments, Retail, Office Space, Industrial Property and much more. LoopNet's Leo commercial real estate listings include farms, multifamily apartments, office buildings, retail space, vacant land, hotels and motels, gas stations, warehouses, restaurants for lease and much more. Register for FREE and get Access to the More LoopNet Features. See Indiana Commercial Real Estate for Sale.
Leo-Cedarville is a town in Cedar Creek Township, Allen County, Indiana, United States. The median income for a household in the town was $66,652, and the median income for a family was $70,750. Males had a median income of $48,438 versus $25,552 for females. The per capita income for the town was $22,170.
Colleges/universities with over 2000 students nearest to Leo-Cedarville: 1  Indiana University-Purdue University-Fort Wayne (about 9 miles; Fort Wayne, IN; Full-time enrollment: 10,126). TV broadcast stations around Leo-Cedarville: 1  WANE-TV (Channel 15; FORT WAYNE, IN; Owner: INDIANA BROADCASTING, LLC). 2  WFFT-TV (Channel 55; FORT WAYNE, IN; Owner: QUOROM OF FT.
Taking advantage of these opportunities assists students in developing meaningful future plans. Leo Junior-Senior High School has received numerous Four-Star Academic Awards from the Indiana Department of Education and has been named a National Blue Ribbon School. Leo Junior-Senior High School was recognized as a National Blue Ribbon School in 2009. Leo Junior-Senior High School provides students with a world-class education through a wide variety of opportunities. Students take Advanced Placement courses and have many dual credit opportunities with area colleges and universities.
Leo-Cedarville-area historical tornado activity is slightly below Indiana state average. TV broadcast stations around Leo-Cedarville: 1  WANE-TV (Channel 15; FORT WAYNE, IN; Owner: INDIANA BROADCASTING, LLC). 2  WFFT-TV (Channel 55; FORT WAYNE, IN; Owner: QUOROM OF FT.
About LoopNet Leo Commercial Real Estate. More brokers, property owners and other commercial real estate investors come to use LoopNet.com for selling and buying commercial real estate online. This is what makes LoopNet the professional's choice for finding Leo, Indiana commercial real estate. LoopNet's Leo commercial real estate listings include farms, multifamily apartments, office buildings, retail space, vacant land, hotels and motels, gas stations, warehouses, restaurants for lease and much more. Register for FREE and get Access to the More LoopNet Features. See Indiana Commercial Real Estate for Sale.
The Leo Elementary School Community looks forward to the 2015-16 school-year with great anticipation. As an “A” rated Indiana school, students entering each of our three grades will experience a new set of learning activities specifically tailored for their grade level. Of course it would not be Leo Elementary without the many incentives/rewards for academic achievement at “Flying Aces” assemblies and our trips to Crazy Pinz for “Cosmic Bowling.” The 2015-16 school-year will be very exciting!
Leo-Cedarville was formed by the incorporation of the villages of Leo and Cedarville in the mid-1990s. This was done so that the two towns could not be annexed by the nearby city of Fort Wayne. The Hursh Road Bridge was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1981 and delisted in 1993. The median income for a household in the town was $66,652, and the median income for a family was $70,750. Males had a median income of $48,438 versus $25,552 for females. The per capita income for the town was $22,170.
Leo-Cedarville compared to Indiana state average: 1  Unemployed percentage significantly below state average. 2  Black race population percentage significantly below state average. 3  Hispanic race population percentage significantly below state average. 4  Foreign-born population percentage significantly below state average. TV broadcast stations around Leo-Cedarville: 1  WANE-TV (Channel 15; FORT WAYNE, IN; Owner: INDIANA BROADCASTING, LLC). 2  WFFT-TV (Channel 55; FORT WAYNE, IN; Owner: QUOROM OF FT.
Leo (GNIS FID: 437781) is a populated place LOCATED WITHIN the Town of Leo-Cedarville. In turn, the Town of Leo-Cedarville is located within Allen County. Leo is located at latitude 41.223 and longitude -85.011. The elevation of Leo is 794 feet above mean sea level. Since Leo is located within the Town of Leo-Cedarville, all of the census and demographic data for residents of Leo are included as part of the information reported for Town of Leo-Cedarville in the Data tab above.