The heart pumps blood into the lungs where the blood is oxygenated. The blood is then returned to the heart and the newly oxygenated blood is circulated to the rest of the body. The respiratory system performs a process known as gas exchange that releases carbon dioxide from the body and brings in oxygen. The first destination of blood after it leaves the heart is to the lungs, while the respiratory system brings oxygen molecules into the body and to the lungs.
The circulatory system interacts with the respiratory system by send the blood to a respiratory organ, such as our lungs, where the blood becomes saturated with oxygen and the … n returns to the body. Nope. The circulatorysystem is blood, blood vessels and arteries,  and the heart. The respiratory system has to do with breathing and  nose, mouth, throat and lungs.
The first destination of blood after it leaves the heart is to the lungs, while the respiratory system brings oxygen molecules into the body and to the lungs. The oxygen molec … ules travel through many bronchioles until it stops at the alveoli. Nope. The circulatorysystem is blood, blood vessels and arteries,  and the heart. The respiratory system has to do with breathing and  nose, mouth, throat and lungs.
The Circulatory and Respiratory System When you breathe in, your respiratory system receives fresh oxygen. The oxygen first goes into your lungs and then into the left side of your heart. It is then pumped by the heart into your blood stream. Figure 1.2 shows the flow of oxygen and carbon dioxide pumped to the body. Blood travels throughout your body. The heart pumps blood through a system of large and small pathways that make up the circulatory system. Blood delivers vital nutrients, oxygen, and other chemicals to every cell in your body. Once in the cells, oxygen burns nutrients to make energy.
Oxygenated blood is brought to organs and tissues via the arteries, while veins bring deoxygenated blood back to the heart to be replenished. The point is, without the respiratory system your blood would be useless. The circulatory and respiratory systems work together to circulate blood and oxygen throughout the body. Air moves in and out of the lungs through the trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles. Blood moves in and out of the lungs through the pulmonary arteries and veins that connect to the heart. 
The circulatory system has a close interrelationship with the respiratory system. The main organ of the respiratory system is the lungs. The diaphragm is a muscle located underneath the heart and lungs that contracts to pull air into the lungs and relaxes to force air out of the lungs. When the air enters the lungs, it travels through the bronchi to tiny air sacs called alveoli.
The circulatory system interacts with the respiratory system by send the blood to a respiratory organ, such as our lungs, where the blood becomes saturated with oxygen and the … n returns to the body. The first destination of blood after it leaves the heart is to the lungs, while the respiratory system brings oxygen molecules into the body and to the lungs.
Answers. Best Answer: The respiratory system takes in oxygen from the atmosphere and moves that oxygen into the bloodstream. The circulatory system then carries the oxygen to all the cells in the body and picks up carbon dioxide waste which it returns to the lungs. Carbon dioxide diffuses from the blood into the lungs and it is then exhaled into the atmosphere
This occurs in the lungs and the circulatory system then transports the oxygen to tissues that used internal respiration to burn fuel in the form of ATP (adenosine triphosphate) for energy, thus creating more carbon dioxide. You breathe in oxygen into your lungs. The first destination of blood after it leaves the heart is to the lungs, while the respiratory system brings oxygen molecules into the body and to the lungs.
I will give you the basics. Breathe in oxygen to the lungs, the lungs give it to the heart, which is distributed by arteries throughout your body, and then the oxygen-depleted blood travels through veins back to the heart. Then the carbon dioxide produced after the other systems use the oxygen is exhaled. 