A nuchal scan (NT Procedure) is a sonographic prenatal screening scan (ultrasound) to help identify higher chances for chromosomal conditions including Down syndrome in a fetus, particularly for older women who have higher risks of such pregnancies. Nuchal scan (NT Procedure) is performed between 11 and 14 weeks of gestation, because the accuracy is best in this period. The scan is obtained with the fetus in sagittal section and a neutral position of the fetal head (neither hyperflexed nor extended, either of which can influence the nuchal translucency thickness).
Nuchal translucency is a finding during a specific period in the late first trimester and early second trimester (11.3-13.6 weeks) and should not be confused with nuchal thickness which is measured in the second trimester. Increased nuchal translucency is thought to be related to dilated lymphatic channels and is considered a nonspecific sign of more generalized fetal abnormality. Measurement of the nuchal lucency requires careful attention to technique.
Most sonographers are not allowed to share results with you. The ultrasound must first be interpreted by a radiologist who will then send your results to your doctor or midwife. An NT measurement of up to 2mm is normal at about 11 weeks, and up to about 2.8mm by 13 weeks and six days. The NT normally grows in proportion with your baby (Nicolaides et al 1999) . The image, left, shows a baby with a normal NT of 1.3mm; this baby will be low-risk. 
In Down syndrome, the nuchal translucency measurement is abnormally large — as shown on the left in the ultrasound image of an 11-week fetus. For comparison, the ultrasound image on the right shows an 11-week fetus with a normal nuchal translucency measurement. Nuchal translucency measurement. First trimester screening includes an ultrasound exam to measure the size of the clear space in the tissue at the back of a baby's neck (nuchal translucency).
A nuchal scan, or nuchal translucency (NT) scan, is often used as a screening test for Down's syndrome. Nuchal translucency is a collection of fluid under the skin at the back of your baby's neck. It can be measured using ultrasound : All babies have some fluid at the back of their neck. An NT of less than 3.5mm is considered normal when your baby measures between 45mm (1.8in) and 84mm (3.3in) (FASP 2010) . The NT normally grows in proportion with your baby (Nicolaides et al 1999) . The images below give an idea of what different levels of NT look like.
At my 12wk US my baby NT measurement was 5. The normal is less than 2.5. we were told the baby was now high risk for down syndrome and other possible syndromes with this number and my age (30yrs!) We opted for the CVS test-it was easy and not too painful. our results came in less than a week--normal chromosomes. 
RESULTS: The median nuchal translucency measurement increased from 0.7 mm at 10 weeks' gestation to 1.5 mm at 13 weeks. A nuchal translucency measurement greater than 2.5 mm was found in 4.6% of the fetuses at 10 weeks' gestation; the incidence increased to 8.7% at 14 weeks. CONCLUSION: In normal fetuses, there is a physiologic variation in the nuchal translucency measurement between 9 and 14 weeks' gestation. The calculation of risk for trisomies based on this measurement should take this variation into account
A nuchal translucency ultrasound (commonly called a “nuchal scan” or “NT scan”) is an ultrasound performed between 11.5 and 13 weeks 6 days gestation. It is usually part of an assessment called combined first trimester screening. The thickness of this fluid can be precisely measured and this is called the nuchal translucency (or NT) measurement. Normally the amount of fluid is small, producing a thin NT measurement. We know that the amount of fluid can increase in the presence of certain conditions, producing a thicker
It's a good idea to take your husband or a friend with you, to share the experience and be with you when you get the result. An NT measurement of up to 2mm is normal at about 11 weeks, and up to about 2.8mm by 13 weeks and six days. The NT normally grows in proportion with your baby (Nicolaides et al 1999) . 