Adam Rich is best known for playing the youngest kid Nicholas Bradford on the television sitcom  Eight is Enough .. Guess what he looks like now! Britney Spears is showing off some serious skin in the latest issue of OUT Magazine -- where she opens up about gay marriage, plastic surgery and why she's jealous of Rihanna.
Rich won the role of Nicholas at the age of eight. After Eight Is Enough, he had roles in Irwin Allen 's short-lived 1981 TV series Code Red on ABC and the 1983 sitcom Gun Shy on CBS. Growing up as a child actor, Adam Rich lived in Granada Hills, California with his parents and younger brother. He was active in sports, including baseball, football, bicycle riding, skateboarding, and swimming.
In it's day, Eight Is Enough actually touched on some other issues that most shows would not touch. It followed the Bradford family headed by the father Tom played by Dick Van Patten. He played widower with eight kids. He started dating and eventually married Abby who was played by Betty Buckley. And why? Well, because they had eight children, that's why! There was never a dull moment in the Bradford house, David, (Grant Goodeve) Mary, (Lani O'Grady) Joannie, (Laurie Walters) Susan, (Susan Richardson) Nancy, (Diane Kay)Elizabeth, (Connie Needham)Tommy, (Willie Aames) and Nicholas (Adam Rich) saw to that!
Adam Rich (II). Actor | Soundtrack. Adam Rich was born on October 12, 1968 in Brooklyn, New York, USA. He is an actor, known for Eight Is Enough (1977), Dungeons & Dragons (1983) and Tukiki and His Search for a Merry Christmas (1979). See full bio ».
Eight Is Enough is an American television comedy-drama series that ran on ABC from March 15, 1977, until August 29, 1981. The show was modeled after syndicated newspaper columnist Thomas Braden, a real-life parent with eight children, who wrote a book with the same name. The series had two reunion movies on NBC. In An Eight Is Enough Reunion on October 18, 1987, Mary Frann replaced Betty Buckley as Abby; Buckley had been filming Frantic during its production. This was followed by An Eight Is Enough Wedding on October 22, 1989, this time with Sandy Faison as Abby
In the pilot, the role of David was played by Mark Hamill, Nancy was played by Kimberly Beck, and Tommy played by Chris English. Hamill chose to give up on Eight is Enough to take the opportunity to star in George Lucas ' Star Wars. The series had two reunion movies on NBC. In An Eight Is Enough Reunion on October 18, 1987, Mary Frann replaced Betty Buckley as Abby; Buckley had been filming Frantic during its production. This was followed by An Eight Is Enough Wedding on October 22, 1989, this time with Sandy Faison as Abby
This series, based on the book Eight Is Enough by Thomas Braden, focused on a family with eight very independent children, aged 8 to 23. The father, Tom, was a newspaper columnist for the Sacramento Register, and Joan was his wife of 25 years. 
The Eight is Enough TV show was a 60 minute family drama series on ABC about a middle class man who lost his wife but still had to deal with raising eight children in Sacramento, California. He met a school teacher who fell in love with him and his house full of kids so they married. Series Description. 