Average price for one-way flights is $379, currently, the lowest price is $240 and is available with the departure on Jan 27, 2016 with Jetstar Airways. Auckland International (AKL) is the cheapest airport when flying from Auckland to Singapore. Show more results. Useful information for flights from Auckland to Singapore. Flights Auckland-Singapore are offered by 3 airlines that include Air New Zealand, Singapore Airlines, Jetstar Airways. The cheapest one-way flights are usually available on Tuesday
Book a flight to Auckland with Singapore Airlines. Known as the City of Sails, Auckland is New Zealand’s largest and most cosmopolitan city. Squeezed between the Tasman and Pacific seas it is blessed with two stunning harbours, Waitemata and Manukau. Auckland’s youngest volcano, Rangitoto, provides the backdrop to many a photograph whilst Waiheke is a wine growing paradise with a laid-back vibe and bohemian art.
50% of all flights from Auckland, NZ to Singapore leave during night hours. The largest aircraft flying nonstop from Auckland, NZ to Singapore is the Boeing 777 with 328 seats. 2 airlines operate between Auckland, NZ and Singapore. 4,242 seats are available per week to fly direct from Auckland, NZ to Singapore. 2 airlines operate between Auckland, NZ and Singapore. The shortest nonstop flight between Auckland, NZ and Singapore is 5222 miles. Air New Zealand provides 50% of the nonstop flights from Auckland, NZ to Singapore. Singapore Airlines has 371 connecting flights between Auckland, NZ and Singapore
Cheap flights from Singapore to Auckland. If your flight days are flexible and you looking for a good deal, our charts on cheap flights provide some insight regarding affordable flight options for your next big adventure. However, booking a round trip flight can be a simpler process. You can compare round trip and one way flights by using our flight comparison. The average price for one way flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,140. The average price for round trip flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,590.
Book your SIN to AKL flights with Expedia and find last-minute Singapore to Auckland airfare. Expedia offers discount airfare on multiple airline carriers that fly direct and indirect routes between SIN and AKL, with new flight deals and promotions almost daily. When you book your next trip from Changi to Auckland Intl. Browse popular flight destinations from Singapore (SIN), and plan your next exciting trip. Expedia has cheap flights from Singapore on multiple airline carriers, so book your next trip today!
Airlines can adjust prices for plane tickets from Singapore to Auckland based on the day and time that you decide to book your flight. We have collected data from all airlines, and have discovered that the best days to book flights are Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays. However, booking a round trip flight can be a simpler process. You can compare round trip and one way flights by using our flight comparison. The average price for one way flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,140. The average price for round trip flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,590.
prices are rising we track the prices of flights between all major cities searched by priceline customers we recently saw a change in prices for the route you searched compared to the average cost of a ticket in the past prices are now up to 21 % higher to qualify as a best day to fly the departure or return date must feature a price that is relatively better than other dates around the same time but please remember that we often do not display a price for every travel date when this happens we display the word price
The average price for connecting flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,685. The average price for non-stop flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,773. The chart below shows up to date information regarding non-stop flights from Singapore to Auckland. However, booking a round trip flight can be a simpler process. You can compare round trip and one way flights by using our flight comparison. The average price for one way flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,140. The average price for round trip flights from Singapore to Auckland is S$1,590.