Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water.
Rockhound. The following are examples of sedimentary rocks: Types include clastic (cemented sediment particles), non-clastic (chemical precipitates or evaporites), and organic (from organisms, e.g. coal). Some will further divide sedimentary rocks into another type called bioclastic, rocks formed from clasts of organic matter (like sea shells). Sandstone, claystone, mudstone, conglomerate, and breccia are all examples of detrital sedimentary rocks-those composed of particles of pre-existing rock.
Sedimentary rocks are formed by the accumulation of sediments. There are three basic types of sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks such as breccia, conglomerate, sandstone, siltstone, and shale are formed from mechanical weathering debris. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page.
Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest. Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water.
Sedimentary Rock Examples. Common clastic sedimentary rocks are listed on the table below. They are listed by grain size in decending order. Grain size is one factor in classifying sedimentary rocks .Clicking on the name of the rock will bring up a larger picture and a description of the rock type in a new window. Siltstone is made from silt particles cemented together. Shale is made from silt particles cemented together. It is similar to siltstone but with even finer grain size, The table below shows examples of common chemical sedimentary rocks. 
Such material, called detritus, consists of fragments of rocks and minerals. When the energy of the transporting current is not strong enough to carry these particles, the particles drop out in the process of sedimentation. This type of sedimentary deposition is referred to as clastic sedimentation. 
Chemical sedimentary rocks, such as rock salt, iron ore, chert, flint, some dolomites, and some limestones, form when dissolved materials precipitate from solution. Organic sedimentary rocks such as coal, some dolomites, and some limestones, form from the accumulation of plant or animal debris. Photos and brief descriptions of some common sedimentary rock types are shown on this page. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant debris
When igneous rocks are exposed to weathering, many of their common minerals completely dissolve or partially dissolve and convert into clay minerals. As a result, olivine, pyroxene, plagioclase, amphibole, and biotite are uncommon in sedimentary rocks. 