1 Kosher gelatin is also made from pork source and listed as kosher gelatin in some products with kosher symbol KO. 2  These products are Haram (NOT HALAL). 3  The Union of Orthodex Jewish Congregation of America certifies a Kosher gelatin, which is made from cattle. There is a big confusion about Kosher Gelatin which is now used very extensively in yogurts, sour Cream, Cottage cheese and Ice Cream. There are four type of kosher gelatin in the food products but none of them meet the Islamic dietary requirements and considered NOT Halal.
The Glatech gelatin, called Kolatin®, is a bovine-hide derived gelatin. The loophole here, is that the collagen used to make the gelatin comes from the hide, or skin, of the cow, and not from the flesh or bones. As food technology has improved over the years, non-animal, or pareve, sources of gelatin-like substances have been discovered that produce effects that are similar to animal-derived gelatin (with the exception of gelatin derived from fish bones, which in fact are animal derived, but are considered pareve.
Founded in 1991, Glatech is the exclusive producer of 100% kosher, real bovine gelatin. This revolutionary product is a vast improvement over other gelling additives such as fish-based gelatin or carageenan: it provides superior texture and consistency, and offers tremendous flexibility in the kitchen. In addition to the Kolatin ® Real Kosher Gelatin unflavored ingredient and flavored gelatin desserts, Glatech is the producer of the complete line of Elyon ® kosher marshmallows products.
Kolatin is a revolutionary product: it is real bovine-derived gelatin, and is sourced from 100% glatt kosher raw materials. Gelling agents are used in hundreds of application, but predominantly in the manufacturing of confectionary and bakery products, as well as gelled and frozen desserts. Gelatin is unique in that it binds large quantities of water to form a gel, something that other gelling or thickening agents cannot duplicate.. Thus, Kolatin real kosher gelatin provides a superior texture and mouthfeel and a superior end-product.
Before writing about kosher gelatin, let's explain what gelatin is. Gelatin is a colorless and tasteless substance that comes from collagen inside the skin and bones of animals. It is commonly used to give food a gelatinous texture and in pharmaceuticals. Gelatin Alternatives. Some alternatives to gelatin that are not from animal or fish sources are agar-agar, which is a seaweed, pectin, guar gum and others. Since these alternatives are plant based, they are generally kosher, though production and potential additives make certification essential.
Gelatin in kosher products is typically derived from kosher fish. Kosher approved gelatin will always have certification on the package indicating whether it is from a meat source or from fish, which is considered pareva, or neutral. Kosher food laws indicate that neutral foods such as eggs, fish, vegetables and grains may be eaten with either meat or dairy. Gelatin Alternatives. Some alternatives to gelatin that are not from animal or fish sources are agar-agar, which is a seaweed, pectin, guar gum and others. Since these alternatives are plant based, they are generally kosher, though production and potential additives make certification essential.
About Kolatin. Kolatin is a revolutionary product: it is real bovine-derived gelatin, and is sourced from 100% glatt kosher sources. In the kitchen, Kolatin real kosher gelatin is an incredibly versatile ingredient. In addition to the Kolatin ® Real Kosher Gelatin unflavored ingredient and flavored gelatin desserts, Glatech is the producer of the complete line of Elyon ® kosher marshmallows products.
Star-K said, Kosher gelatin is derived from kosher animal sources. Gelatin derived from pig would not be considered kosher. Kosher gelatin is derived from kosher slaughtered and processed bovine sources or from kosher species of fish. Gelatin derived from fish is permitted in yogurt or other dairy foods according to most opinions.. Star-K also told us their position on the use of gelatin (a meat product) in yogurt (a dairy product). In e-mail correspondence, Miriam Wudowsky of the OK kosher certifying agency said, Kosher gelatin is made from kosher fish and/or agar agar. The OK never uses anything made from pig or other nonkosher animals.. The OU does certify as kosher the bovine gelatin derived from cattle slaughtered in kosher fashion. To the best of our knowledge, there are two companies that produce gelatin certifiable according to OU standards. One of them is Glatech Productions, a New Jersey-based company that produces Kolatin® brand kosher gelatin