Biennial/Bye-election. Rajya Sabha is a permanent House and is not subject to dissolution. However, one-third Members of Rajya Sabha retire after every second year. A member who is elected for a full term serves for a period of six years. Article 80 of the Constitution lays down the maximum strength of Rajya Sabha as 250, out of which 12 members are nominated by the President and 238 are representatives of the States and of the two Union Territories.
Indian Parliament is a bicameral Parliament consisting of the President and two Houses known as the Council of States [Rajya-Sabha] and the House of the People [Lok-Sabha]. R … ajya-Sabha consists of not more than 250 members and of these 12 members are nominated by the President. Lok-Sabha is composed of representatives of the people chosen by the direct election on the basis of adult suffrage. 250 is the composition of rajya sabha where 12 are nominated by the  president and 238 are the representatives of different states and  union territories. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
Parliament of India consists of the President and two houses to be known as the House of the People,renamed later as the Lok Sabha and the Council of States,renamed as the Rajya Sabha .Lok Sabha is commomly known as lower house of parliament.Rajya Sabha is the second chamber of Indian Parliament. 250 is the composition of rajya sabha where 12 are nominated by the  president and 238 are the representatives of different states and  union territories. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
RAJYA SABHA. Rajya Sabha is the Upper House of Parliament. It has not more than 250 members. Members of Rajya Sabha are not elected by the people directly but indirectly by the Legislative Assemblies of the various States. He is assisted by the Deputy Speaker who is also elected by Lok Sabha. The conduct of business in Lok Sabha is the responsibility of the Speaker. The Vice-President of India is the ex-officio Chairman of Rajya Sabha.
RAJYA SABHA-AN INTRODUCTION. Background. The ‘Council of States’ which is also known as Rajya Sabha, a nomenclature that was announced by the chair in the House on the 23rd August, 1954 has its own distinctive features. The origin of the second Chamber can be traced to the Montague-Chelmsford Report of 1918. Article 80 of the Constitution lays down the maximum strength of Rajya Sabha as 250, out of which 12 members are nominated by the President and 238 are representatives of the States and of the two Union Territories.
The Rajya Sabha is the upper house of the Parliament of India. It is also known as the Council of States, as “Rajya” means states and “Sabha” means assembly. There are 250 members of the Rajya Sabha. The seats are actually allotted depending on the population of each state or union territory.
The Rajya Sabha or Council of States is the upper house of the Parliament of India. Membership of Rajya Sabha is limited by the Constitution to a maximum of 250 members, and current laws have provision for 245 members. If Lok Sabha passed a Money Bill, and transmitted it to Rajya Sabha, Rajya Sabha has only fourteen days to return the bill (with or without amendments) to Lok Sabha. If Rajya Sabha fails to return the bill in fourteen(14) days, the bill is deemed to have passed by both the Houses.
There are a lot of differences between Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Some of them are/;i) Lok Sabha is the lower chamber of the Parliament whereas Rajya Sabha is the upper chamber. However, you should not be mistaken as it does not mean that the powers of Lok Sabha are inferior as compared to the other house. Rajya Sabha-It is a permanent house and it can't be dissolved. Paresh,I hope that this will be helpful to you in sorting out the difference between the two houses of parliment. Author: Kuldeep S 02 Nov 2010 Member Level: Silver Points: 2 Voting Score: 0Hi, this is the official website of the Government of India.
The Lok Sabha (English: House of the People) is the lower house of India's Bicameral-Parliament, with the higher house being the Rajya Sabha. The House is an elected body consisting of 543 members known as Members of Parliament (MPs). 
The Rajya Sabha meets in continuous sessions, and unlike the Lok Sabha, the lower house of Parliament, is not subject to dissolution. If Lok Sabha passed a Money Bill, and transmitted it to Rajya Sabha, Rajya Sabha has only fourteen days to return the bill (with or without amendments) to Lok Sabha. If Rajya Sabha fails to return the bill in fourteen(14) days, the bill is deemed to have passed by both the Houses.