Absorption occurs in the digestive system when the nutrients move from the gastrointestinal tract to the blood or lymph. Defecation is the process of expelling what the body couldn't use. Almost all absorption occurs in the small intestine. The stomach simply uses its enzymes to break down food into smaller and smaller molecules. The most mech … anical digestion occurs in the stomach due to the constant churning motion. 2 people found this useful.
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas and bile juice from the liver and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues. When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood. 95% of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine. Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon (large intestine) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9. Digestion begins in the mouth with the secretion of saliva and its digestive enzymes. Food is formed into a bolus by the mechanical mastication and swallowed into the esophagus from where it enters the stomach through the action of peristalsis.
The SMALL INTESTINES absorbs most of the water and most of the nutrients, and the colon's job is to absorb the rest of the water (the colon* does not greatly assist the body in nutrient absorption). Water is a nutrient which is absorbed through the large intestine. This is done last, before excreteing so that the food can flow easily throught the digestive system. Other nutrients such as proteins and fats are broke down and absorbed by the small
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. Digestion is a form of catabolism that is often divided into two processes based on how food is broken down: mechanical and chemical digestion. Digestion begins in the mouth with the secretion of saliva and its digestive enzymes. Food is formed into a bolus by the mechanical mastication and swallowed into the esophagus from where it enters the stomach through the action of peristalsis.
Most of the absorption part of the digestive process occurs in the jejunum and the ileum of the small intestine, though alcohol is readily absorbed through the stomach. Chemical processes that contribute to digestion also begin in the mouth with action of saliva on food. However, most of the chemical digestive processes occur in the stomach and small intestine-where the partly-digested materials are subjected to gastric juices, pancreatic juice, succus entericus and so on. Absorption is the uptake of fluids or other substances by the tissues of the body
Small Intestine: The small intestine is where most chemical digestion occurs. After the stomach empties the food and juice mixture into the small intestine, the juices of two other digestive organs mix with the food to continue the process of digestion. One of these organs is the pancreas. 
Several specialized compartments occur along this length: mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, and anus. Accessory digestive organs are connected to the main system by a series of ducts: salivary glands, parts of the pancreas, and the liver and gall bladder (bilary system). The small intestine is the major site for digestion and absorption of nutrients. The small intestine is up to 6 meters long and is 2-3 centimeters wide. The upper part, the duodenum, is the most active in digestion.
Digestion occurs in the stomach and the absorption of the nutrients occurs in your small intestine. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. Almost all absorption occurs in the small intestine. The stomach simply uses its enzymes to break down food into smaller and smaller molecules. The most mech … anical digestion occurs in the stomach due to the constant churning motion
Once these materials have been broken down, nutrient absorption can occur. As food is processed along the digestive tract, most of the nutrients are absorbed through the walls of the small intestines. The nutrients are carried into the bloodstream where they can travel to all parts of the body. 