Keep in mind that vinyl flooring probably won't be mistaken for the material it's imitating. Also, because it's relatively soft, vinyl can be damaged by sharp objects. Vinyl flooring costs around $1 to $5 per square foot, uninstalled. Vinyl tiles are DIY-friendly, thanks to self-stick backing, spray adhesives, and other simple options. Sheet vinyl installation generally is better left to professionals. Sure, you love the look of natural stone and ceramic tile in the bathroom, but you don't love the cost. If you want an alternative that's easy on the budget, low-maintenance, and comfortable underfoot, turn to vinyl. Water-resistant and antimicrobial, vinyl is available in hundreds of colors, patterns, and designs.
Vinyl is one of the simplest of the DIY flooring materials to install. Home and property owners can find it in large sheets (usually sold in 6' or 12' widths) or in tiles ranging from one square foot to 18x18 in size. The only difficulties in laying a flooring made from this pliable material are in cutting it to fit around pipes, drains, or pre-existing cabinetry. For this discussion, we will consider the materials and costs for the installation of a vinyl floor in the mid-range 200 square foot kitchen. This discussion will be geared especially at the DIY owner, and will NOT include costs such as:
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Sheet Vinyl Flooring Installation project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Sheet Vinyl Flooring ranges between $2.56 - $3.31 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Sheet Vinyl Flooring Installation. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.
Average Price Range. The average cost of linoleum and vinyl flooring is $2-$2.50 per square foot. Like most flooring, vinyl and linoleum is produced at different quality levels. The thicker the material and the better the finish, the more it will cost. The best way to understand the differences in the quality is to shop around. This is due to the fact that more pigment or specialized pigment is used. 1  Vinyl flooring can be found for as little as $0.50 per square foot with top prices being about $5 per square foot. 2  Linoleum costs slightly more, with average prices being $2.50-$3
Shopping for vinyl flooring: 1  If you're flooring a small space, ask about vinyl sheet remnants or the bolt ends of linoleum which can be up to 50 percent off, and BizRate.com lists miscellaneous lots of overstocked vinyl tiles. 1
$1 to $8 per square foot DIY Installation: Easy. The vinyl floor in this Manor (TX) home for sale has the look of hardwood. Vinyl is considered to be the most affordable and easiest to install out of flooring options. Vinyl sheets range from 75 cents to $4 a square foot and vinyl tiles typically cost $1 to $8 per square foot, both which are ideal for DIY-installation. Like laminate, vinyl flooring can imitate the look of high-end flooring like hardwood or tile. 
1 Whether tile (usually 12x12-, 13x13- or 20x20-inches) or sheets, linoleum prices usually include installation and range $3-4 a square foot or $250-$350 for that 9x9 room, but high-end linoleum can run well over $4 a square foot. 1 If you're flooring a small space, ask about vinyl sheet remnants or the bolt ends of linoleum which can be up to 50 percent off, and BizRate.com lists miscellaneous lots of overstocked vinyl tiles.
1 Prices can start at less than $1 a square foot for inexpensive tiles, but decent vinyl runs $2-$5 a square foot or $162-$405 for a 9x9-foot bathroom, with the higher-end products offering extremely durable and realistic simulations of stone, tile or other materials. 1 If you're flooring a small space, ask about vinyl sheet remnants or the bolt ends of linoleum which can be up to 50 percent off, and BizRate.com lists miscellaneous lots of overstocked vinyl tiles.