There are an estimated 7,066 nesting pairs of bald eagles, due to the efforts of federal agencies, tribes, state and local governments, conservation groups, universities, corporations, and thousands of individuals. US map of estimated breeding pairs in each state. Some eagles do not breed every year. Bald eagles are capable of breeding annually from the age of four, but some of the adults, though paired, seem to choose not to breed. It might be an instinctive decision, based on the weather; availability of nesting sites, or food.
Bald eagles build their nests in large trees near rivers or coasts. A typical nest is around 5 feet in diameter. Eagles often use the same nest year after year. Over the years, some nests become enormous, as much as 9 feet in diameter, weighing two tons. Some eagles do not breed every year. Bald eagles are capable of breeding annually from the age of four, but some of the adults, though paired, seem to choose not to breed. It might be an instinctive decision, based on the weather; availability of nesting sites, or food.
Q. About how long does it take for the bald eagle's eggs to hatch and how long until it can fly? A. It takes 35 days to hatch, then young in nest 10-12 weeks more unti lthey fledge (fly from nest). Q. How old are they before young eagles can fly? A. At 10-12 weeks, when they leave their nest. Q. When do eagles learn to fly and how? A. At between 10-12 weeks as they first leave the nest (fledge), and then with more and more practice to and from the nest and surrounding trees over the next month or two. Another study estimated that only 11 % of eagles were alive after 3 years of life. In general, we believe that only about 1 in 10 eagles survive to adulthood (5 yrs of age). Ecology Q. How many pounds of food does a Bald Eagle eat in a day? A. Approximately .5 - 1.5 per day.
Bald eagles occupy almost the entire calendar year with their breeding cycle. This cycle covers 10 to 11 months from territory occupancy or re-occupancy, territory defense, nest repair and building, egg laying, incubation and feeding of young through fledging, to also include a short ... for more .... .... more ...... 
An eagle is sexually mature and ready to breed at about 4 to 5 years of age. For bald eagles, the complete white head and tail are signs of sexual maturity. Golden eagles also attain their adult plumage at 4-5 years of age, when they are sexually mature and typically begin breeding. The average bald eagle nest is 4 to 5 feet in diameter and 2 to 4 feet deep. Each year the adult pair will add 1-2 feet of new material to the nest. The largest recorded bald eagle nest, located in St. Petersburg, Florida, was 9.5 feet in diameter, 20 feet deep and weighed almost 3 tons
A: Eagles within the Chesapeake Bay weigh between 7 and 12 pounds. Females are 30% heavier than males and have a stockier appearance. Females weigh 10-12 pound. Males weigh 7-8 pounds. Wing span is 6-8 feet. 
Bald eagle young are generally ready to fledge, or take their first flight, by 10-12 weeks of age. Young golden eagles typically fledge around 10 weeks of age. The average bald eagle nest is 4 to 5 feet in diameter and 2 to 4 feet deep. Each year the adult pair will add 1-2 feet of new material to the nest. The largest recorded bald eagle nest, located in St. Petersburg, Florida, was 9.5 feet in diameter, 20 feet deep and weighed almost 3 tons
Bald eagles fledge at about 10-14 weeks. Golden eagles fledge in 7-11 weeks. Prior to their first flight, nestlings will flap their wings in the nest or while jumping to an adjacent branch in behavior known as branching. The average bald eagle nest is 4 to 5 feet in diameter and 2 to 4 feet deep. Each year the adult pair will add 1-2 feet of new material to the nest. The largest recorded bald eagle nest, located in St. Petersburg, Florida, was 9.5 feet in diameter, 20 feet deep and weighed almost 3 tons
The bald eagle has a body length of 70–102 cm (28–40 in). Typical wingspan is between 1.8 and 2.3 m (5.9 and 7.5 ft) and mass is normally between 3 and 6.3 kg (6.6 and 13.9 lb). Females are about 25% larger than males, averaging 5.6 kg (12 lb), and against the males' average weight of 4.1 kg (9.0 lb). Bald eagles are not actually bald; the name derives from an older meaning of white headed. The adult is mainly brown with a white head and tail. The sexes are identical in plumage, but females are about 25 percent larger than males.