Immunophenotyping detects the presence or absence of white blood cell (WBC) antigens. These antigens are protein structures found on the surface or interior of WBCs. Typical groupings of antigens are present on normal WBCs and are unique to specific cell types.
Immunophenotyping is used primarily to help diagnose and classify the blood cell cancers, leukemias and lymphomas, and to help guide their treatment.
Summary. Flow cytometry is the preferred method ofdiagnosing and immunophenotyping acute lympho-blastic leukemia (ALL). However, there are situations inwhich immunohistochemical staining (IH) of bonemarrow trephine biopsy specimens can be used toprovide immunophenotypic information.
Flow cytometry is used for immunophenotyping of a variety of specimens, including whole blood, bone marrow, serous cavity fluids, cerebrospinal fluid, urine, and solid tissues.
The Clinical Pathology Laboratory at Cornell University is now pleased to offer immunophenotyping on venous blood, bone marrow, and cytology samples in dogs and cats. This is a technique that is mostly used for categorization and classification of hematopoietic neoplasms, such as lymphoma and leukemia.
Immunophenotyping detects the presence or absence of antigens found on the surface or interior of blood cells. Atypical or abnormal cells can demonstrate characteristic antigen groupings that are consistent with specific types of leukemia and lymphoma.
With immunophenotyping, a blood, bone marrow, or other tissue sample can be tested to gather this information – information that is then used to identify a specific type of leukemia or lymphoma and, where possible, used to predict its likely aggressiveness and/or responsiveness to certain treatment.
The type of test we use for immunophenotyping (flow cytometry or immunocytochemistry) depends on the sample type, i.e. whether it consists of suspended cells in fluid samples or cells adhered to slides. 1  For suspended cells, we generally use flow cytometry.
Modern immunophenotyping of hematological malignancies by flow cytometry is assisted by a wide array of easily accessible monoclonal antibodies, by antibodies conjugated to diverse fluorochromes, and by reliable techniques for cell membrane permeabilization.
Immunophenotyping may be ordered when a person has an increased number of lymphocytes (or sometimes an increase in another type of white blood cell (WBC)), an increased or decreased platelet count, or has immature WBCs that are not normally seen in blood.