This is because the breakdown of glucose is incomplete. Anaerobic respiration produces an oxygen debt. This is the amount of oxygen needed to oxidise oxidation: Oxidation is a reaction in which oxygen combines with a substance. Oxidation also means a loss of electrons. lactic acid to carbon dioxide and water. Anaerobic respiration. Not enough oxygen may reach the muscles during exercise. When this happens, they use anaerobic respiration to obtain energy. Anaerobic respiration involves the incomplete breakdown of glucose. It releases around 5% of the energy released by aerobic respiration, per molecule of glucose glucose: A simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration
A sprinter would be using aerobic respiration. Running requires large quantities of oxygen, and is used up quickly to produce energy. EDIT: Actually, a sprinter would be more … likely to use anaerobic respiration, if compared to someone else, such as a marathon runner. Aerobic Respiration uses oxygen to release the energy from food. It creates a lot of Atp energy. Anaerobic Respiration does not require oxygen to release the energy from foo … d. It creates less energy (when compared to aerobic respiration), and leads to the formation of lactic acid in the muscles.
Not to be confused with Lactic acid fermentation. Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. In order for the electron transport chain to function, an exogenous final electron acceptor must be present to allow electrons to pass through the system. In aerobic organisms, this final electron acceptor is oxygen. Molecular oxygen is a highly oxidizing agent and, therefore, is an excellent acceptor. In anaerobes, other less-oxidizing substances such as sulfate (SO 4 2−), nitrate (NO 3 −), sulphur (S), or fumarate are used.
Respiration is a series of reactions in which energy is released from glucose glucose: A simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration. Aerobic respiration is the form of respiration which uses oxygen. It can be summarised by this equation: glucose + oxygen → carbon dioxide + water (+ energy). Energy is shown in brackets because it is not a substance. Notice that: 1  Glucose and oxygen are used up. 2  Carbon dioxide and water are produced as waste products
Most of the time, the cells in our bodies use aerobic respiration: When oxygen is not available, cells use anaerobic processes to produce ATP. (The an in front of aerobic means not aerobic.) Under anaerobic conditions, many cells use a process called fermentation to make ATP. 
Respiration is the chemical process by which organic compounds release energy. The compounds change into different ones by exergonic reactions. There are two types of respiration: 1  aerobic, which requires oxygen and releases lots of energy. During glycolysis, glucose molecules (six-carbon molecules) are split into two pyruvates (three-carbon molecules) during a sequence of enzyme-controlled reactions. This is the same reaction as occurs in aerobic respiration.
Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs. Anaerobic respiration is respiration without oxygen; the process uses a respiratory electron transport chain but does not use oxygen as the electron acceptors. Cells that use it. Aerobic respiration occurs in most cell