Polyether foam is utilized in an abundance of industries due to the materials' ease and low-cost of fabrication. Polyether foam's protective and cushioning properties make it the ideal material for packaging applications. Polyether foam, also known as Ether, is a flexible, open-cell type of polyurethane foam that has a near-infinite amount of applications due to the following characteristics: 1  Compressibility.
Definition of POLYETHER. : any of a group of polymers in which the repeating unit contains a carbon-oxygen bond derived especially from an aldehyde or an epoxide and which are used especially in the manufacture of plastic foams. ADVERTISEMENT. poly- + ether. First Known Use: 1922
The following pie chart shows world consumption of polyether polyols for urethanes: The polyether polyol industry is concentrated, although less so than the isocyanates industry, which tends to have more sophisticated manufacturing processes and greater capital costs. Based on underlying macroeconomic factors, it is expected that the global polyether polyols market will grow at a slower pace in 2012 and even decline in some countries/regions.
Traditionally, polyester foam has a higher “tensile” strength than its polyurethane foam counterpart, polyether foam. Polyester foam is also more resistant to hydrocarbons and alcohols than polyether foam. In applications where the polyurethane foam will come into contact with gases, such as oxygen, nitrogen and/or carbon dioxide, the polyurethane foam should be manufactured with polyester-based polyols. 
In addition to fabricating polyether foam to custom designed specifications, New England Foam stocks polyether foam in bun, roll and sheet forms, in densities ranging from 1 to 4 pounds per cubic foot (PCF) and those colors most requested: white, yellow, pink, red, green, purple, blue, gray, black and charcoal. Polyether foam, also known as Ether, is a flexible, open-cell type of polyurethane foam that has a near-infinite amount of applications due to the following characteristics: 1  Compressibility.
Most polyether polyols are produced for polyurethane applications; however, other end uses range from synthetic lubricants and functional fluids to surface-active agents. Based on underlying macroeconomic factors, it is expected that the global polyether polyols market will grow at a slower pace in 2012 and even decline in some countries/regions.
During 2008–2011, global polyether polyols markets were significantly affected by the economic crisis in 2008/2009. The crisis, which started as a real estate and financial crisis in the United States, brought the overall world economy into recession in 2008/2009. Based on underlying macroeconomic factors, it is expected that the global polyether polyols market will grow at a slower pace in 2012 and even decline in some countries/regions.
A polyether polyol is the polymeric reaction product of an organic oxide and an initiator compound containing two or more active hydrogen atoms. 
New England Foam supplies, converts and fabricates the following types of polyether foam: 1  0.9 pcf +/- 0.1 w/ 24-34# IFD (1034). 2  Largest sheet size = 54 x 82. 3  1.1 pcf +/- 0.05 w/ 22-32# IFD (1234 A/S). 4  Largest sheet size = 54 x 82. 5  1.2 pcf +/- 0.05 w/ 32-39# IFD (1235 CM). 6  Largest sheet size = 54 x 82. Polyether foam, also known as Ether, is a flexible, open-cell type of polyurethane foam that has a near-infinite amount of applications due to the following characteristics: 1  Compressibility.