TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964 PROHIBITS DISCRIMINATION BASED ON RACE, COLOR OR NATIONAL ORIGIN IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES WHICH RECEIVE FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION. OFFICE FOR CIVIL RIGHTS. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20202-1328. EDUCATION AND TITLE VI OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 protects people from discrimination based on race, color or national origin in programs or activities that receive Federal financial assistance. Title VI states that:
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352) (Title VII), as amended, as it appears in volume 42 of the United States Code, beginning at section 2000e. Title VII prohibits employment discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex and national origin. The Civil Rights Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102-166) (CRA) and the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-2) amend several sections of Title VII.
Mosquito Crossing, Greene County, Georgia. The new school for Negro children. Unlike some of the other areas addressed in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, schools are something familiar to all students, so even the very young can deepen their understanding of the conditions that led to the legislation.
In 1954, the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas declared that separate educational facilities are inherently unequal. A decade later, Title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 again called for the desegregation of public schools. The new school for Negro children. Unlike some of the other areas addressed in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, schools are something familiar to all students, so even the very young can deepen their understanding of the conditions that led to the legislation.
Abstract. Describes how the addition of a new responsibility to the Title IV mandate — the delivery of services to eliminate sex discrimination in school districts — has affected the ongoing Title IV mission of assisting the process of racial desegregation in schools. The analysis draws heavily upon data collected for a 1976 study that described and evaluated Title IV's racial desegregation services to school districts in varying stages of desegregation.
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub.L. 88–352, 78 Stat. 241, enacted July 2, 1964) is a landmark piece of civil rights legislation in the United States that outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. In 1972, Congress passed the Equal Employment Opportunity Act. The Act amended Title VII and gave EEOC authority to initiate its own enforcement litigation. The EEOC now played a major role in guiding judicial interpretations of civil rights legislation.
Title IX of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 should not be confused with Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination in federally funded education programs and activities. In 1972, Congress passed the Equal Employment Opportunity Act. The Act amended Title VII and gave EEOC authority to initiate its own enforcement litigation. The EEOC now played a major role in guiding judicial interpretations of civil rights legislation.
Title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: Desegregation of Public Education. Download article as a PDF. DEFINITIONS. SEC. 401. As used in this title--. (a) Commissioner means the Commissioner of Education. SEC. 409. Nothing in this title shall affect adversely the right of any person to sue for or obtain relief in any court against discrimination in public education. SEC. 410. Nothing in this title shall prohibit classification and assignment for reasons other than race, color, religion, or national origin.
Whether or not Title IV of the 1964 Civil Rights Act can be a means for the establishment of equal educational opportunity in the nation's public schools remains academic; presently, it is simply an instrument of the Nixon Administration's evolving policy on desegregation. 