In the past, it has been assigned to the family Aloaceae (now included in the Xanthorrhoeaceae) or to a broadly circumscribed family Liliaceae (the lily family). The plant Agave americana, which is sometimes called American aloe, belongs to the Asparagaceae, a different family. The genus is native to tropical and southern Africa, Madagascar, Jordan, the Arabian Peninsula, and various islands in the Indian Ocean (Mauritius, Reunion, Réunion, comoros.). etc Succulent plants, such as this aloe, store water in their enlarged fleshy leaves, stems, or roots, as shown in this split aloe leaf. This allows them to survive in arid environments.
Submit. Although similar to a cactus, the Aloe Vera plant is actually a succulent, capable of storing large quantities of water in its long, barbed, tapering leaves. Keywords: Aloe Vera, Succulent, Cactus. 
Cacti, like aloe vera, are succulent desert plants often grown indoors on sunny windowsills. However, aloe vera is not covered in the sharp, needle-like thorns cacti are known for. Aloe Vera. Aloe vera, also known as a burn plant or medicine plant, is a succulent often grown as a houseplant. Aloe is known for its healing properties as a topical analgesic. Aside from reportedly relieving itching, it is thought to reduce pain caused by minor burns and other skin irritations.
Although similar in appearance to cacti, aloe vera is not a cactus but a succulent and a member of the lily family. Aloe plants are more closely related to tulips and asparagus than to cacti. Aloe Vera. Aloe vera, also known as a burn plant or medicine plant, is a succulent often grown as a houseplant. Aloe is known for its healing properties as a topical analgesic. Aside from reportedly relieving itching, it is thought to reduce pain caused by minor burns and other skin irritations.
Overview. The Aloe vera plant has been used for thousands of years to heal a variety of conditions, most notably burns, wounds, skin irritations, and constipation. It is grown in subtropical and tropical locations, including South Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean. 
The first step in aloe vera plant care is to realize that this plant is a succulent. Like cacti, succulents do best in dry conditions. When growing aloe vera plants, plant them in a cactus potting soil mix or a regular potting soil that has been amended with additional perlite or building sand. Also, make sure that the pot has plenty of drainage holes. Aloe vera plants cannot tolerate standing water. Another important part of how to grow an aloe plant is to water the plant properly. The soil of the aloe vera plant should be allowed to go completely dry before being watered. When the aloe plant is watered, the soil should be thoroughly drenched, but the water should be allowed to drain freely from the soil.
The Aloe Vera plant has many aliases -- the Miracle Plant, the Medicine Plant, the Burn Plant. Whatever you want to call it, this plant has a clear gel inside the leaves that is used for a multitude of purposes and it is easy to grow. Eddie Russell with Cornelius and Calloway's Nursery says aloe is not only inexpensive, but also very easy to care for. Aloe Vera is in the succulent family which is related to the cactus and they tend to have more water in their leaves, said Eddie, You can keep it indoors or outdoors. Water when it's dry but don't water often. Like a cactus, succulents don't like to have a lot of water. Outside, water every two weeks
ALOE Overview Information. Aloe (often called aloe vera) produces two substances, gel and latex, which are used for medicines. Aloe gel is the clear, jelly-like substance found in the inner part of the aloe plant leaf. Aloe latex comes from just under the plant's skin and is yellow in color. 