Governance and management of post-secondary institutions becomes even more diverse with the differences in defining the relationships between higher and tertiary education (university education), postsecondary education, technical and vocational education, and community college models of education. Sponsored by the AAUP and the American Conference of Academic Deans, the 2001 Survey of Higher Education Governance is a study done by Gabriel Kaplan, a doctoral student at Harvard University interested in replicating research done by Committee T of the AAUP thirty years previously.
Public school governance is essential for a culture in which the ultimate expectation for future generations is that the children will eventually be able to maintain and improve society. top of: Public School Governance. Again, it is these boards that cause public school governance to be what it is. These boards, constantly assess, improve, maintain, and regulate the institutions within their district. The key to a successful school board is to have educated, proactive members who are able to admit to flaws in the system.
Educational Leadership, Management and Governance. Our members research practice and policy in leadership, management and governance in educational contexts. We consider that high quality organisation and proper governance are central to high quality provision for learners in educational institutions
Leadership in the academic community arises from the necessities of the structure of governance within a college or university. It is obvious that the structure of governance comes first, and the leadership role follows from it. Governance is both a structure and a process. It is a structure that legitimates power groups and power relationships.
Education Governance. Education governance is concerned with how the funding, provision, ownership and regulation of education and training systems is coordinated, and at what level; local, regional, national and supranational. 
Public school governance has many different functions and responsibilities, but the overall governing structure of a public school institution is typically the same. Again, it is these boards that cause public school governance to be what it is. These boards, constantly assess, improve, maintain, and regulate the institutions within their district. The key to a successful school board is to have educated, proactive members who are able to admit to flaws in the system.
Simply, university governance is the way in which universities are operated. Governing structures for higher education are highly differentiated throughout the world, but the different models nonetheless share a common heritage. Sponsored by the AAUP and the American Conference of Academic Deans, the 2001 Survey of Higher Education Governance is a study done by Gabriel Kaplan, a doctoral student at Harvard University interested in replicating research done by Committee T of the AAUP thirty years previously.
Concept of Governance. Governance has been defined to refer to structures and processes that are designed to ensure accountability, transparency, responsiveness, rule of law, stability, equity and inclusiveness, empowerment, and broad-based participation.
Poor governance can seriously contribute to poor education quality and ineffective learning experiences. Education governance consists of multiple layers from the central down to the community level with various actors and stakeholders holding varying degrees of powers, authority, influences and accountability. For quality learning, every level of the system has an important role. 
A school governance is a government for the school. The school government is like the United States government, except it is modified for the school's needs. It includes all the principles, models, and practices that enable a school district board to effective direct the workings of the schools within its boundaries. 