A fascinating parallel between plant and animal life is in the use of tiny energy factories within the cells to handle the energy transformation processes necessary for life. In plants, these energy factories are called chloroplasts. 
Complex organic food molecules such as sugars, fats, and proteins are rich sources of energy for cells because much of the energy used to form these molecules is literally stored within the chemical bonds that hold them together. Cellular nutrients come in many forms, including sugars and fats. In order to provide a cell with energy, these molecules have to pass across the cell membrane, which functions as a barrier — but not an impassable one.
ATP provides energy for a cell by storing energy in the bond between the second and third phosphate group. ATP really wants to get rid of the third phosphate group. When a cel … l needs energy it breaks the weak bond between the two phosphates and work is done. 24 people found this useful. 
Best Answer: In animal cells, the mitochodria, where the Krebs Cycle (aerobic respiration) occurs, producing ATP (energy). In plants, the chloroplasts, where the photosynthetic process occurs (light, water and carbon dioxide produce glucose (sugar) and oxygen gas. 
Mitochondria (organelles within the cell) use a payload of adenosine triphosphate molecules to provide the cell with energy. Animal cells use more energy because unlike plant cells, animal cells can move at any speed and it also runs and walk to retrieve food.
Within plant cells are chloroplasts (KLAWR-uh-PLASTS), organelles in which the energy from sunlight is used to make sugar. Plants use some of the sugar immediately, to keep their cells functioning. The rest of the sugar is stored in the cells. Animal cells do not contain chloroplasts. As a result, animals are not able to use the energy of the Sun directly. Instead, animals get their energy from food. Much of the food an animal uses for energy comes from the sugar that plant cells have stored. 
In plant cells, which do not contain mitochondria, the energy for cellular functions is created by the chloroplasts, which, like a mini solar cell, convert sunlight into useful energy by the creation of sugar molecules through the process of Photosynthesis. Cells need a source of energy, they get this energy by breaking down food molecules to release, the stored chemical energy.This process is called 'cellular respiration' . The process is happens in all the cells in our body.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Animal cells get there energy from Glucose which is made by the plant and ingested by the animal. The animal cells then take in the glucose and through cellular respiration convert it into ATP using their mitochondria which the cell uses as energy. That would be the simple and understandable answer. 
(Answer #1). The mitochondria are organelles within an animal cell that provide energy for the rest of the cell's functions through the creation of the energy molecule ATP by the chemical reactions occuring in the Krebs Cycle. Cells need a source of energy, they get this energy by breaking down food molecules to release, the stored chemical energy.This process is called 'cellular respiration' . The process is happens in all the cells in our body.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate, or ATP, is the most abundant energy carrier molecule in cells. This molecule is made of a nitrogen base (adenine), a ribose sugar, and three phosphate groups. The word adenosine refers to the adenine plus the ribose sugar. Cellular nutrients come in many forms, including sugars and fats. In order to provide a cell with energy, these molecules have to pass across the cell membrane, which functions as a barrier — but not an impassable one.