The Treaty was approved by the Prince Regent (the future King George IV). It took a month for news of the peace treaty to reach the United States. American forces under Andrew Jackson won the Battle of New Orleans on January 8, 1815. The Treaty of Ghent was not in effect until it was ratified by the U.S. Senate unanimously on February 18, 1815. It began two centuries of peaceful relations between the U.S. and Britain, although there were a few tense moments. Plaque at a building in Veldstraat, Ghent, where the American diplomats stayed and one of the locations where the treaty was negotiated. It was located at the retail Esprit store on Veldstraat 47. Placed by the United States Daughters of 1812.
The Treaty of Ghent, signed on Christmas Eve, 1814, ended the War of 1812 and established a new foreign policy dynamic between the United States and Great Britain. 
The Treaty of Ghent was signed in Ghent, Belgium, on Christmas Eve 1814 by Great Britain and the US to end the War of 1812. Negotiations for peace had begun the previous year, with both parties agreeing to meet in Europe to work out the details. Consequences of the Treaty of Ghent. What emerged from this peace was the survival of Upper and Lower Canada as part of British North America, and with it a growing sense of identity different to that of their American neighbours and, indeed, its Imperial motherland.
Treaty of Ghent: December 24, 1814. The American victory on Lake Champlain led to the conclusion of U.S.-British peace negotiations in Belgium, and on December 24, 1814, the Treaty of Ghent was signed, ending the war.
After two years of bitter battle, the American–British and Ireland war ended with the signing of the Treaty of Ghent, in Belgium on 24 December 1814. Therefore, although the treaty was signed, the actual battle ended after the famous “Battle of New Orleans”. The British on the other hand, had been victorious in the Battle of Fort Bowyer before they heard about the peace agreement. On February 16, 1815, the U.S Senate finally approved the Treaty of Ghent.
In January 1814 Madison agreed to peace talks in the neutral city of Ghent in Belgium, and sent off a curious collection of intellectuals and politicians to run the negotiations. John Quincy Adams, serious, disciplined and devout, was the chief negotiator. The war had been a stalemate whose resolution let each side get on with the business of trade and expansion. In the end, they simply agreed to call the whole thing off. The Treaty of Ghent The Treaty of Ghent outlines the agreement that ended the war. The Treaty of Ghent. The Treaty of Ghent outlines the agreement that ended the war. Support for pbs.org. (Credit: Library of Congress). Peace of Ghent 1814 and triumph of America
On December 24, 1814, The Treaty of Ghent was signed by British and American representatives at Ghent, Belgium, ending the War of 1812. By terms of the treaty, all conquered territory was to be returned, and commissions were planned to settle the boundary of the United States and Canada. Advertisement. The American victory on Lake Champlain led to the conclusion of U.S.-British peace negotiations in Belgium, and on December 24, 1814, the Treaty of Ghent was signed, ending the war.
Best Answer: The Treaty of Ghent (8 Stat. 218), signed on December 24, 1814, in Ghent, currently in Belgium, was the peace treaty that ended the War of 1812 between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Due to the era's slow speed of communication, it took weeks for news of the peace treaty to reach America, well after the Battle of New Orleans had ended.
This treaty, signed on December 24, 1814, ended the War of 1812, fought between Great Britain and the United States. For the early decades of the nation’s history, relations between the United States and Great Britain remained strained. Their relationship deteriorated sharply with the outbreak of war in Europe in 1803. 