Directions. Bring 1 inch salted water to a boil in a large skillet. Add asparagus in one layer. Cook until tender, about 5 minutes for medium and 7 minutes for jumbo. Drain, and transfer to a serving platter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and top with a pat of butter
1 If you wish, use a microwave-safe cooking dish to boil asparagus in the microwave. 2  Fill the cooking dish with 1/4 cup water, then add the spears and place the lid on the dish. 3  Cook the asparagus on your microwave oven's high power setting for 3 minutes, then open the door and stir. 1 Place the asparagus spears in the boiling water. 2  Once the water returns to a boil, cook for 5 minutes. 3  If you wish, use a microwave-safe cooking dish to boil asparagus in the microwave. 4
How to Cook Asparagus on the Stove. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting.
Set the microwave on high heat and cook the asparagus about 2 minutes and 30 seconds. If you want your asparagus to be more tender, cook it for another 30 seconds or so. Be sure not to overcook asparagus. 
Heat a large frying pan over high heat, add cooking oil or butter and asparagus and cook, stirring, until the asparagus is tender, about 5 minutes depending on how thick the spears are. Try this recipe for Sauteed Asparagus and Morels to get a real hit of spring. Steamed Asparagus With Vinaigrette and Egg. How to roast asparagus: turn on oven, put asparagus in oven, cook until brown and tender. Seriously, it pretty much is just that easy—just add a bit of cooking oil to the asparagus to keep it from drying out in the oven. Sprinkle with salt and maybe a squirt of lemon juice before serving, if you're so inclined.
Preparation. Trim tough root ends from asparagus spears, then cut into 2-inch lengths. Place in microwave-safe bowl with a lid. Sprinkle asparagus with kosher salt, onion powder, and garlic powder. Pour in lemon juice and dot with butter. Cover with lid and microwave on high power for 2 to 3 minutes. Stir to distribute seasonings. Cook another 2 to 3 minutes until asparagus is tender
Microwave the bundle for 3 to 4 minutes. Cook the wrapped asparagus on full power until the spears just barely become crisp tender. 1  Place the bundle in your microwave with the open seam-side facing down. 1 If you want to flavor the asparagus as it cooks, use the tender-cook method outlined above and add the 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of garlic butter to the asparagus when you add the salt, just before you cover and cook it. 2  The rest of the butter can be stored and refrigerated in an airtight container for 3 days.
1 Lay asparagus on a baking sheet. 2  Drizzle with a tablespoon of olive oil. 3  Roast for 8-10 minutes. 4  Stir Frying: Cut spears diagonally into 1 1/2 inch to 2-inch pieces, and stir fry with a teaspoon of sesame or olive oil for 3 minutes. 1 Stir Frying: Cut spears diagonally into 1 1/2 inch to 2-inch pieces, and stir fry with a teaspoon of sesame or olive oil for 3 minutes. 2  Roasting: Place asparagus on a baking sheet coated with nonstick cooking spray and roast in a preheated 450 degree oven for about 10-15 minutes, depending on thickness of the spears.
1 Microwaving: Lay asparagus in a microwave-safe baking dish, with tips towards the center. 2  Add about a 1/4 cup of water; cover and microwave for 4-5 minutes. 3  Roasting: Preheat oven to 450 degrees. 4  Lay asparagus on a baking sheet. 5  Drizzle with a tablespoon of olive oil. 6  Roast for 8-10 minutes. 1 Stir Frying: Cut spears diagonally into 1 1/2 inch to 2-inch pieces, and stir fry with a teaspoon of sesame or olive oil for 3 minutes. 2  Roasting: Place asparagus on a baking sheet coated with nonstick cooking spray and roast in a preheated 450 degree oven for about 10-15 minutes, depending on thickness of the spears.