A humanoid species identified by their short builds and fur-covered faces, Bothans are widely known as proficient and intrepid spies. However, members of the species have also become fearless leaders, relentless warriors, courageous pilots, and brilliant scientists. A Bothan Male. (Bŏ'-thăn) Small in stature and covered in short, thick fur, Bothans are from the planet Bothawui. They are smart and cunning, making them some of the most sought-after spies and smugglers in the Galaxy.
Biology and Culture Edit. Bothans were a furry humanoid species characterized by stocky builds and fur-covered faces. They stood at about 1.5 meters tall and the fur acted as an emotional indicator, as different moods triggered different rippling responses on a Bothan's fur. Hailing from Bothawui and several colonies, Bothans differ in facial structure from canine to feline to equine. Bothan culture is guided by the philosophy and principles set forth in the ancient text The Way by Golm Fervse’dra. In this Bothan Way, the pursuit of power and influence was paramount.
”Many Bothans died to bring us this information.” — Mon Mothma. Some species within the Star Wars Legends material have changed considerably over time. One obvious reason for this is the lack of a visual representation in the original source. 
Mon Mothma mentions Bothan spies in Return of the Jedi and with no further mention of their kind in the rest of the films, one could easily remain confused forever. That’s where the expanded universe comes in. A species from Bothawui, Bothans are renowned as the best spies in the galaxy. Prior to the battle of Endor, Bothan spies captured an Imperial freighter carrying highly classified data about the second Death Star. New Republic Councilor Borsk Fey’lya is a Bothan who was born on the Bothan colony world of Kothlis. 
― Mon Mothma, before the Battle of Endor. Bothans (pronounced /'bɑθɪn/) were furry mammalian anthropoids, about 1.5 meters tall. Hailing from Bothawui and several colonies, Bothans differed in facial appearance and body structure with canine, feline, and equine features. They were known for being master politicians and spies, craving intrigue and subterfuge. Biology and appearance Edit. A Bothan. Bothans were a short race of furry humanoids who on average stood between 1.5 meters to 1.6 meters in height. Bothans were covered in fur which rippled in response to their emotional state by way of gentle ripplings.
Bothans were a furry humanoid species characterized by stocky builds and fur-covered faces. Hailing from Bothawui and several colonies, Bothans differ in facial structure from canine to feline to equine. Bothan culture is guided by the philosophy and principles set forth in the ancient text The Way by Golm Fervse’dra. In this Bothan Way, the pursuit of power and influence was paramount.
A haunting quote from Star Wars: Return of the Jedi is. Many Bothans died to bring us this information.. I love how the actress looks as she delivers this line, as if she is remembering specific individuals that were lost. From what I can remember, this is the only mention of Bothans. Bothans do not appear in any of the movies. There is, however, a character that might be a Bothan in an episode of the animated series Star Wars: Droids.
Expanded Universe Edit. Bothans are a humanoid species characterized by stocky builds and fur-covered faces. The fur acts as an emotional indicator, as different moods trigger different rippling responses on a Bothan's fur. Bothans hail from Bothawui, a cosmopolitan planet spared from the Galactic Civil War due to its neutrality. A Bothan Male. (Bŏ'-thăn) Small in stature and covered in short, thick fur, Bothans are from the planet Bothawui. They are smart and cunning, making them some of the most sought-after spies and smugglers in the Galaxy.