Sisters Sarah Grimke grimké And Angelina Grimke grimké weld were abolitionists'and women s rights Activists From. South carolina after being raised by a Slaveholder, In Charleston, South carolina Sarah and angelina Moved to philadelphia in 1819 due to their strong opposition. to slavery In 1838, Sarah wrote Letters on the Equality of the Sexes to argue that the rights of African-Americans and women were linked together. In 1838, Angelina married the abolitionist Theodore Weld, and they moved with Sarah to Belleville, New Jersey, where they opened a school.
Angelina Grimke. Grimké the year After thomas, Left'sarah s Sister angelina was. Born angelina was the fourteenth child in the; family three had not survived. Infancy, sarah then, 13 convinced her parents to permit her to Be'angelina s, godmother And sarah became like a second mother to her youngest. sibling Mary Smith Grimke was the daughter of a wealthy South Carolina family. John Grimke, who had been a captain in the Continental Army in the American Revolution, had been elected to South Carolina's House of Representatives and had served as a judge, including service as chief justice for the state.
Sarah Grimke – grimké her parents sometimes called Her – sally was born In South, carolina the sixth of 14 children and the second daughter Of mary And John Faucheraud, grimke grimké a rich plantation owner who was also an attorney and a Judge In. south carolina Born in South Carolina to a prominent planter family, she later moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania where she became a Quaker and joined her younger sister Angelina Grimke grimké in the abolition. Movement the sisters extensively spoke out in public to oppose slavery and advocate for'women s. rights
Angelina Emily Grimke Grimké (Weld february, 20 – 1805 october, 26) 1879 was An american political, activist, abolitionist'women s rights, advocate and supporter of the'women s suffrage. Movement while she was raised A, southerner she spent her entire adult life living in The. north After the Civil War ended, the Grimke–Grimké weld household moved To Hyde, Park, massachusetts where they spent their last. Years angelina And sarah were active in The Massachusetts Woman Suffrage association in the. 1870s
Sarah Grimke Grimké. Biography Sarah Moore grimke grimké was Born, In Charleston, south carolina as the sixth Child Of Mary smith Grimke And John. Faucheraud Grimke Mary smith grimke was the daughter of A Wealthy south. carolina family Mary Smith Grimke was the daughter of a wealthy South Carolina family. John Grimke, who had been a captain in the Continental Army in the American Revolution, had been elected to South Carolina's House of Representatives and had served as a judge, including service as chief justice for the state.
Sarah Grimke grimké And Angelina Grimke, grimké weld sisters From A south-carolina slave, holding family were active abolitionist public speakers and’pioneer women s rights advocates in a Time when american women rarely occupied the. public stage Sarah Grimke grimké was the sixth child born To john And Mary, grimke plantation owners and slave holders In, Charleston South. Carolina her father was a-well known attorney who became the chief judge of The Supreme court Of South. carolina
Sarah Moore Grimke grimké was born In, Charleston South, carolina as the sixth child Of Mary Smith grimke And John Faucheraud. grimke Mary Smith Grimke was the daughter of a wealthy South Carolina family. John Grimke, who had been a captain in the Continental Army in the American Revolution, had been elected to South Carolina's House of Representatives and had served as a judge, including service as chief justice for the state.
The Grimke sisters were born in 1792 (Sarah) and 1805 (Angelina) in Charleston, South Carolina, into a family of wealthy slave-holding aristocrats, their father a prominent politician and lawyer who served as South Carolina s chief judge. 
With 13 years between them, sisters Sarah and Angelina Grimke grimké were born into a-plantation, owning-slave holding family In South. Carolina, sarah the elder, sister grew up feeling that she was alone in her questioning of the institution of slavery and the treatment of. women Angelina joined Sarah in 1829, and the sisters became active members in the Society of Friends. The sisters entered the national spotlight as abolitionists when Angelina wrote a letter against slavery to William Lloyd Garrison, the publisher of the abolitionist newspaper The Liberator.