Oropharyngeal cancers can be divided into two types, HPV-positive, which are related to human papillomavirus infection, and HPV-negative cancers, which are usually linked to alcohol or tobacco use. Oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas [edit]. Oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas is a type of head and neck cancer that begins in the oropharynx, the middle part of the throat that includes the soft palate, the base of the tongue, the tonsils, and the side and back wall of the throat.
Oral cavity cancer, or just oral cancer, is cancer that starts in the mouth (also called the oral cavity). Oropharyngeal cancer starts in the oropharynx, which is the part of the throat just behind the mouth. The earliest form of squamous cell cancer is called carcinoma in situ, meaning that the cancer cells are present only in the outer layer of cells called the epithelium. This is different from invasive squamous cell carcinoma, where the cancer cells have grown into deeper layers of the oral cavity or oropharynx.
These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by oropharyngeal cancer or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following: 1  A sore throat that does not go away. 2  Trouble swallowing. 3  Trouble opening the mouth fully. 4  Trouble moving the tongue. 5  Weight loss for no known reason. 6  Ear pain. Treatment of stage IV oropharyngeal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or that has recurred (come back) may include the following: 1  Radiation therapy. 2  Surgery. 3  Chemotherapy for patients with cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or recurrent cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
The following may be signs of oropharyngeal cancer or of other conditions. See a doctor if any of the following symptoms are present: 1  A sore throat that persists. 2  Pain or difficulty with swallowing. 3  Unexplained weight loss. 4  Voice changes. 5  Ear pain. 6  A lump in the back of the throat or mouth. 7  A lump in the neck. 
Oropharyngeal cancer is a type of head and neck cancer. Sometimes more than one cancer can occur in the oropharynx and in other parts of the oral cavity, nose, throat, larynx (vocal cords), trachea, or esophagus at the same time. Treatment of stage IV oropharyngeal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or that has recurred (come back) may include the following: 1  Radiation therapy. 2  Surgery. 3  Chemotherapy for patients with cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or recurrent cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Oropharyngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissue of oropharynx. The oropharynx is the middle part of the throat that includes the base of the tongue, the tonsils, the soft palate, and the walls of the pharynx. Oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas [edit]. Oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas is a type of head and neck cancer that begins in the oropharynx, the middle part of the throat that includes the soft palate, the base of the tongue, the tonsils, and the side and back wall of the throat.
1 Oropharyngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the oropharynx. 2  Smoking or being infected with human papillomavirus can increase the risk of oropharyngeal cancer. 3  Signs and symptoms of oropharyngeal cancer include a lump in the neck and a sore throat. Treatment of stage IV oropharyngeal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or that has recurred (come back) may include the following: 1  Radiation therapy. 2  Surgery. 3  Chemotherapy for patients with cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or recurrent cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
More than 90% of oral and oropharyngeal cancers are squamous cell carcinoma, meaning they begin in the flat, squamous cells found in the lining of the mouth and throat. The most common locations for cancer in the oral cavity are the tongue, tonsils, oropharynx, gums, and floor of the mouth. ON THIS PAGE: You will find some basic information about these diseases and the parts of the body they may affect. This is the first page of Cancer.Net’s Guide to Oral and Oropharyngeal Cancer. To see other pages, use the menu on the side of your screen.
(March 2013). Human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive oropharyngeal cancer (OPC) also known as HPV16+ oropharyngeal cancer or HPV+ OPC is a recognized subtype of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas (OSCC), associated with the HPV type 16 virus. 
The clinical anatomic staging of oropharyngeal cancers involves both clinical assessment and imaging techniques.[ 3, 27 ] Standard imaging techniques include a dedicated head and neck computed tomography (CT) scan with contrast, positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scan, and magnetic resonance imaging. In a large, retrospective cohort from the MD Anderson Cancer Center, 981 oropharyngeal patients who underwent primary radiation therapy were analyzed.[ 28 ] The base of the tongue (47%) and the tonsil (46%) were the most common primary sites.