The colon is part of the large intestine, the final part of the digestive system. Its function is to reabsorb fluids and process waste products from the body and prepare for its elimination. The colon consists of four parts: descending colon, ascending colon, transverse colon, and sigmoid colon. The descending colon is located on the left side of the large intestine, extending from the bend below the spleen to the sigmoid colon. The descending colon stores the food to be emptied into the rectum. The colon is held in place by peritoneum, a thin layer of tissue that supports the abdominal organs
The transverse colon is the longest and most movable part of the colon. It crosses the abdomen from the ascending colon at the hepatic or right colic flexure with a downward convexity to the descending colon where it curves sharply on itself beneath the lower end of the spleen forming the splenic or left colic flexure.
• The ascending colon travels up the right side of the abdomen. • The transverse colon runs across the abdomen. • The descending colon travels down the left abdomen. • The sigmoid colon is a short curving of the colon, just before the rectum. The colon removes water, salt, and some nutrients forming stool.
METHODS: An analysis of colon cancer cases from 1994 to 2004 was conducted, with follow-up through 2006. Colon subsite location was defined as proximal colon (cecum, ascending colon, hepatic flexure), transverse colon, descending colon (splenic flexure, descending colon), and sigmoid colon. Subsite-specific survival analyses were conducted with use of the Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazards ratios
Click to read more below. The transverse colon is the longest region of the colon and is located between the ascending colon and descending colon. It is named for the fact that it crosses the abdominal cavity transversely from the right side to left side just below the stomach. Much of the absorption and feces formation of the colon takes place in the transverse colon, making it a very important region of the digestive system. Anatomy The colon is the main portion of the large intestine and is divided into four regions: the ascending, transverse, descending, and sigmoid colon.... At the hepatic flexure, the colon turns to the left and crosses to the left side of the abdominal cavity as the transverse colon. Upon reaching the left side, the colon again turns sharply toward the inferior direction at the splenic flexure before continuing on as the
The transverse colon again takes a right-angled turn just below the spleen (left colic or splenic flexure, which is attached to the diaphragm by the phrenocolic ligament) and becomes the descending (left) colon, which lies vertically in the most lateral left part of the abdominal cavity. Transverse colon and sigmoid colon. The transverse colon and the sigmoid colon have a mesentery (ie, transverse mesocolon and sigmoid mesocolon, respectively), but the ascending colon and descending colon are retroperitoneal, while the cecum is intraperitoneal but uses the mesentery of the ileum.
The left half of the transverse colon continues from the right upper quadrant to the left upper quadrant. It bends at the splenic flexure to become the descending colon and runs downwards to the left lower quadrant. Here it continues as the sigmoid colon and connects with the rectum. 
The transverse colon is one of the four main components of the human colon, with the other three parts being the ascending colon, the descending colon, and the sigmoid colon. The transverse shares many common characteristics with the other parts, with the major difference being its location within the body. Location of the Transverse Colon in the Body. The transverse colon is located in the abdomen along with the rest of the colon. More specifically, it runs across the body on the left hand side. Here, the transverse connects the ascending colon, which rises along the right hand portion of the abdominal cavity, to the descending colon, which travels downward