Knowledge center. With the current outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in south Wales, here are some facts about the illness. Legionnaires' disease, also called Legionellosis is a lung infection, a form of pneumonia which can be fatal, caused by the legionella bacterium. As Legionnaires' disease signs and symptoms are often mild, it is likely that the real number of infections is considerably higher than the reported ones. Legionnaires' disease may be hard to diagnose at first because its signs and symptoms may be very similar to other forms of pneumonia.
About the Disease. Legionnaires' disease is a severe, often lethal, form of pneumonia. It's caused by the bacterium Legionella pneumophila found in both potable and nonpotable water systems. Each year, an estimated 10,000 to 18,000 people are infected with the Legionella bacteria in the United States. 
Introduction. Legionellosis is a collective term for diseases caused by legionella bacteria including the most serious Legionnaires’ disease, as well as the similar but less serious conditions of Pontiac fever and Lochgoilhead fever. 
Causes. The bacterium Legionella pneumophila is responsible for most cases of Legionnaires' disease. Outdoors, legionella bacteria survive in soil and water, but rarely cause infections. 
Origins of Legionnaires' Disease. Infection by Legionella bacteria causes Legionnaires’ Disease which is a potentially fatal form of pneumonia and typically affects men more than women. 
Justin D'Ancona, Philly.com. Recent outbreaks in the U.S. have turned Legionnaires’ disease into a buzzword in the health community. If this is an illness you’re hearing about for the first time, here's what you need to know: For starters, the disease actually developed right here in Philadelphia. 
Legionnaires' disease, also known as legionellosis or Legion fever, is a form of atypical pneumonia caused by any type of Legionella bacteria. Over 90% of cases of Legionnaires' disease are caused by Legionella pneumophila. Other causative species include L. longbeachae, L. feeleii, L. micdadei, and L. anisa. 
It may be readily visualized with a silver stain. Legionella is common in many environments, including soil and aquatic systems, with at least 50 species and 70 serogroups identified. The side chains of the cell wall carry the bases responsible for the somatic antigen specificity of these organisms. The genus Legionella is a pathogenic group of Gram-negative bacteria that includes the species L. pneumophila, causing legionellosis (all illnesses caused by Legionella) including a pneumonia-type illness called Legionnaires' disease and a mild flu-like illness called Pontiac fever.
Legionnaires' death toll rises, NYC cracks down. Legionella also can cause a milder disease, called Pontiac fever, whose symptoms are similar to the flu. Together, Legionnaires' disease and Pontiac fever are called legionellosis, according to the Mayo Clinic. It's caused by the bacteria legionella, which gets its name from an outbreak that killed 29 people attending an American Legion at a Philadelphia hotel in 1976. Legionella bacteria are found naturally in the environment, usually in water, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Definition. Legionnaires' disease is a severe form of pneumonia — lung inflammation usually caused by infection. Legionnaires' disease is caused by a bacterium known as legionella. You can't catch Legionnaires' disease from person-to-person contact. Instead, most people get Legionnaires' disease from inhaling the bacteria. 