Swatch Bijoux Jewelry. Costume jewelry, trinkets, fashion jewelry, junk jewelry, fake jewelry, or fallalery is jewelry manufactured as ornamentation to complement a particular fashionable costume or garment as opposed to real (fine) jewelry which may be regarded primarily as collectibles, keepsakes, or investments. Contents. Costume jewelry was also made popular by various designers in the mid-20th century. Some of the most remembered names in costume jewelry include both the high and low priced brands: Crown Trifari, Dior, Chanel, Miriam Haskell, Monet, Napier, Corocraft, Coventry, and Kim Craftsmen.
Unlike fine jewelry, costume jewelry is made from nonprecious metals called base metals. Most of these are both beautiful and relatively benign. However, nickel can cause an allergic reaction, while the lead found in some alloys has been linked to far more serious conditions and is highly regulated. Base metal is a jewelry industry term for nonprecious metals used in costume jewelry, including copper, aluminum, brass, nickel silver, pewter and white metal, also called pot metal.
While it is sometimes labeled as “junk,” “fake,” or fashion jewelry, costume jewelry often incorporates workmanship and materials on par with, or better than, fine jewelry. The 20th century brought about a sea change in how jewelry was perceived and used. Even fine jeweler Emanuel Ciner transitioned to costume jewelry in the 1930s, making the finest hand-crafted pieces possible. Ciner used Swarovski crystals and plated the metal that held the sparklers in places with 18-carat gold.
The term “costume jewelry” was coined in the 1920s, but jewelry and ornamentation made out of non-precious materials have been worn since ancient times. Even fine jeweler Emanuel Ciner transitioned to costume jewelry in the 1930s, making the finest hand-crafted pieces possible. Ciner used Swarovski crystals and plated the metal that held the sparklers in places with 18-carat gold.
Detergents containing phosphate can turn sterling brown. Costume Jewelry. Costume jewelry or Fashion jewelry is jewelry that is made of less valuable materials, including base metal alloy, glass, plastic, and synthetic stones, in place of more valuable materials such as gold, silver and gems. Costume jewelry is most flashy products as opposed to fine jewelry and main use in fashion. Costume jewelry was made of inexpensive simulated gemstones, such as rhinestones or lucite, set in pewter, silver plated nickel or silver plated brass. 
Some consumers distinguish costume jewelry from fashion jewelry by the value of the materials used. When the term fashion jewelry became mainstream, the variety of materials available was more diverse than those used for costume jewelry in the 1930s through the 1970s. Fashion jewelry is the evolution of costume jewelry and differs only slightly in its intended use. This type gained popularity in the 1980s as young women wore fashion jewelry to make statements. The term fashion jewelry is more recent than costume jewelry and incorporates fun and playful styles.
Usually, the “stones” used are large and involve flashy cuts. Costume jewelry is made in all sorts of styles from Victorian inspired brooches to imitation pearl necklaces. Rings, bracelets, earrings, and other jewelry accessories all come in costume as well as regular form. Costume jewelry may include earrings. Imitation pearl necklaces are a more subdued type of costume jewelry. Costume jewelry is jewelry made with inexpensive metals and precious stone imitations. Some costume jewelry brands are carried by exclusive boutiques.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Costume jewelry is jewelry made from inexpensive metals and imitations of precious stones. It tends to be flashy and sometimes over the top with gaudiness, although subdued costume jewelery that is designed to imitate more upscale jewelry is also available. Costume jewelry may include earrings. Imitation pearl necklaces are a more subdued type of costume jewelry. Costume jewelry is jewelry made with inexpensive metals and precious stone imitations. Some costume jewelry brands are carried by exclusive boutiques.
Originally, costume or fashion jewelry was made of inexpensive simulated gemstones, such as rhinestones or lucite, set in pewter, silver, nickel or brass. During the depression years, rhinestones were even down-graded by some manufacturers to meet the cost of production. Costume jewelry was also made popular by various designers in the mid-20th century. Some of the most remembered names in costume jewelry include both the high and low priced brands: Crown Trifari, Dior, Chanel, Miriam Haskell, Monet, Napier, Corocraft, Coventry, and Kim Craftsmen.