1 Stock cabinets come pre-made in specific styles, shapes and finishes. 2  A lot depends on the size and shape of your kitchen and the total linear feet of cabinets needed. 3  Basic cabinets (top and bottom) for a 10x12-foot kitchen start at $4,000-$5,000 and up, not including installation and countertops. 1
A painting contractor will charge $310 to prepare, prime and paint the exterior of 100-square-feet of wall and base cabinets. That includes labor and material. You can do the job for $65, the cost of the materials, and save 79 percent. 
For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets ranges between $2.98 - $6.08 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: Cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors.
a can of spray paint cost between $ 3 50 and $ 5 if you would like to repaint the kitchen cabinet as well you will need 1 gallon of primer and 1 gallon of paint for the entire cabinet including the internal area this will cost between $ 45 and $ 75 per gallon for both items depending on the type and quality of paint the cost will range between $ 25 and $ 50 per gallo n depending on the brand of paint used two coats of paint will cost between $ 50 and $ 100 supplies you need the basic tools to start your paint job these include brushes rollers trays
The average national cost to paint a small project is $628, with most homeowners spending between $353 and $908. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Painting an entire home -- or even an entire room -- can be an extensive and expensive undertaking. The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage. Return to Top. Accent walls allow a homeowner the chance to experiment with a new color.
1 Painting/Finishing.  Cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets. Find the average cost to paint kitchen cabinets yourself compared to the labor and material cost of hiring a contractor. Use your ZIP Code to adjust the cost to where you live so you can decide to do it yourself or hire a pro. You can leave some items inside the cabinets, but leave plenty of space to easily work on the frames. A painting contractor will charge $555 to prepare, prime and paint 150-square-feet of base and wall-hung wood cabinets with one coat of alkyd paint. This includes labor and material. You can do it yourself for $60, the cost of the materials-sandpaper, deglosser, primer, paint and brush-and earn an 80 percent saving. It'll cost more in time and money to paint the interior of the cabinets because the insides have much more surface to cover than the outside
The average cost to repaint kitchen cabinets is about $1,000, depending on the number of cabinets you have to paint and the time and labor required to do so. The materials used to paint the kitchen cabinets -- brushes, primer, paint, sanding equipment -- will cost up to $200 if you decide to buy them yourself. If you don't want to sand or scrape away the old paint, just use a deglossing agent, This is especially useful with shiny paint types. The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage. Return to Top. Accent walls allow a homeowner the chance to experiment with a new color.
Also there are lots of painters who claim to paint kitchen cabinets for a good price, but in the end, the cabinets turn out looking terrible. Painting is about 75-80% less expensive than refacing or replacing cabinets. So keep this in mind! 1 They will not remove your doors, drawers or hardware but will carefully paint your cabinets in place. 2  If you have a rental property, this is probably your least expensive option. 3  For a standard kitchen, prices could range from $1,000-1,800 for this type of work.