The first national flag of Haiti was designed by Toussaint Louverture. He used to represent himself as a legitimate agent of French administration. As a result of this, his force used to fly the Revolutionary French tricolor flag with vertical bands of blue, white, and red. Haitian Flag. The national flag of Haiti has two horizontal bars, blue over red with white rectangular scroll bearing the Haitian coat of arms in the center with message L'Union Fait La Force (Unity Makes Strength). The coat of arms portrays a royal palm for independence and weapons to defend freedom
Haiti, being a colony of France, interprets the white color of the flag to be a symbol of the French colonial oppression. Dessalines gave the ripped flag to his god daughter Catherine Flon who later sewed the red and blue parts back on. The coat of arms in the flag of Haiti shows six draped flags, three on each side, and in the center lays a palm tree with a liberty cap of red and blue. These figures are resting on a green lawn and surrounded by cannons, cannonballs and other items such as a drum, a bugle and ship anchors (via rivera at dhead online).
The Haitian flag has long been a symbol of pride for Haiti. Haitian Flag Day on Monday, May 18, is all about celebrating the culture and heritage of the Haitian flag, which is emblazoned with the country’s coat of arms and the colors red and blue, adopted from the French flag.
The Haitian flag has two horizontal stripes, the top in blue, which stands for vigilance, loyalty, perseverance and justice, and the union of mulatto Haitians with black Haiti … ans. The red symbolizes hardiness, bravery, strength, and valour. In the center of the flag the Haitian Coat of Arms sits on a white square. The Haitian flag was born from the French flag at the independence of the island nation. It took the French flag, removed the white and eventually turned it on its side.
The flag of Haiti is a bicolour flag featuring two horizontal bands coloured blue over red, defaced by a white panel bearing the coat of arms. The coat of arms depicts a trophy of weapons ready to defend freedom and a royal palm for independence. The palm is topped by the Cap of Liberty. The white pale removed, the blue was taken to represent Haiti's black citizens and the red the gens de couleur. The story is widely known in Haiti: the anniversary of the date is celebrated as the Haitian Flag Day and images of Catherine Flon have appeared on Haitian currency and stamps.
Proportion: 3:5. Haitian Flag Description: The flag of Haiti consists of two equal sized horizontal stripes-the top one is blue and the bottom one is red. In the center of the Haitian flag is the country's coat of arms, placed on a white square. Haiti declared independence from France on January 1, 1804. The Haitian flag was originally blue and red vertical stripes, which was an adaptation of the French national flag. The white stripe of the French flag was omitted because it represented white colonial oppression.
Flag of Haiti. The flag of Haiti is composed of equal horizontal parts of blue and red defaced by the country’s coat of arms in the center. A country of multi ethnicity and color, these colors represent the union of the races that make up the country. The coat of arms in the flag of Haiti shows six draped flags, three on each side, and in the center lays a palm tree with a liberty cap of red and blue. These figures are resting on a green lawn and surrounded by cannons, cannonballs and other items such as a drum, a bugle and ship anchors (via rivera at dhead online).