Basically, a weapon with the enchantment of Bane of Arthropods on  it deals more damage on arthropods, mobs that include spiders, cave  spiders, silverfish, and endermites. … Not only that, but it also  deals a slowness affect to an arthropod that is hit with a weapon  enchanted with Bane of Arthropods. Bane of Arthropods will kill Spiders, and Cave Spiders fasyer than any other Enchantment!
Bane of Arthropods. Bane of Arthropods, sometimes referred to as BoA, is a common enchantment for swords. Bane of Arthropods affects all enemies classified by science to have an exoskeleton. In-game, it affects Spiders, Cave Spiders, Silverfish, and Endermites. Bane of Arthropods increases the amount of damage dealt to these types of enemies.
Use: (all using a diamond sword with Bane or Arthropods V) Sp … iders will be killed with 2 hits (one hit dealing 11.5 hearts, the other finishing it off) instead of... 2 hits? (that's right, normal diamond swords hit 8 hearts without enchanting. Bane of Arthropods will kill Spiders, and Cave Spiders faster than any other enchantment.
I was reading the Minecraft Wiki about the enchantment Bane of Arthropods and the enchantment applies a slowness effect to spiders. But at the bottom of the enchantment there is a note that says: 
Insects, arachnids, centipedes and crustaceans are all arthropods.   An arthropod is an invertabrate animal that has an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed appendages.    An ANTHROPOD is a bipedal humanoid (ie Homo Sapien, Homo Neanderthalus, Homo Habilus, Australopithicene Afarensis, and other hominids). Bane of Arthropods will kill Spiders, and Cave Spiders fasyer than any other Enchantment!
Guest answered: Bane of Arthropods is an enchantment that increases damage delt to arthropod mobs (spiders, cave spiders, and silverfish). You deal 0.5-2 hearts more damage to these mobs per level. This enchantment can be used on a sword or an axe (requires a book and an anvil). 
In this episode we fight loads of mobs in the stronghold, and question what exactly is the 'Bane of Arthropods' enchantment? And what does it do? Woop! 40 Episodes of Survival. Let's keep up the support guys (and girls)! 
Basically, a weapon with the enchantment of Bane of Arthropods on  it deals more damage on arthropods, mobs that include spiders, cave  spiders, silverfish, and endermites. … Not only that, but it also  deals a slowness affect to an arthropod that is hit with a weapon  enchanted with Bane of Arthropods. Mr. Andy. Bane of Arthropods will kill Spiders, and Cave Spiders faster than any other enchantment.
From the unofficial fan-run MindCrack and HermitCraft wiki. Resting place of the Bane of Arthropods Sword. Bane of Arthropods is an enchantment that can be placed on Swords. It deals extra damage to Spiders, Cave Spiders, and Silverfish, and is considered to be the worst possible enchantment on a weapon. mcgamer is notable for using this enchantment name as his battle cry when fighting mobs. MC received a level 50 Bane of Arthropods V enchant on his Sword at thejims ' quad Cave Spider farm during a livestream on May 2012.