If your car burns through a lot of oil, it's worth going to a mechanic. How often to check it: It was once recommended that you check your oil every time you fill up with gas, but with most modern cars you're safe checking it once a month. How often to replace it: This depends on the car, manufacturer, and year. The 3,000 miles or every six months saying doesn't really apply any more. Instead, check your owner's manual for the manufacturer's recommendations for changing your engine oil. 
So before you go in for your oil change, dig out your owner’s manual and see what it says. And when the mechanic slaps on a sticker that gives the next change date in 3,000 miles, ask questions. And then, go get the car washed. That’s one thing that always seems to be needed. I STILL remember learning from my father how to carefully remove a dipstick to check the oil level in our cars. It was drilled into me — along with turning off the lights when you left a room and clearing the plates off the table after dinner — that oil needs to be changed every 3,000 miles or so.
We recommend that you change your oil and filter every 5,000 miles. That's our best estimate. It may be too soon for many people and too late for a few, but for the vast majority, 5,000-mile oil changes will help your engine last to a ripe, old age. You may want to consider changing your oil more frequently if: 
That synthetic oil gets changed at 7,000 miles. But regular conventional oil must be changed every 3,000 miles. My local mechanic that I go to is the the most trustworthy mechanic around. I asked him what if I go 5,000 miles between oil changes. He said, you will ruin your engine eventually. The level should be checked at least once a month. A new off the lot car should have the oil changed at or below 1000 miles to get all the new friction wear out. I change Trans fluid every 20000 miles. I have a 92 Cherokee with 312k miles original Trans and engine.
How Often to Change Engine Oil. The engine is the heart of a vehicle and needs to be protected. Modern engines are compact and more powerful, meaning the chances of wear and tear are higher. It is the engine oil that lubricates the moving parts of the engine, such as pistons and cylinders. The oil is to be deposited in the oil pan located at the bottom of the engine. How Often Should the Engine Oil be Changed. The oil level should be checked at regular intervals of, at least, once in every two weeks or 1,000 kilometers. Oil level should also be checked before making a long journey.
All oil looks pretty black within a couple of days after an oil change, so the only way to avoid running on oil that's so dirty that it becomes a liability is to keep a record of when it was last changed and to change it frequently — as often as every 1,000 miles in extreme operating conditions. Dirty oil just doesn't do the job as well as fresh oil does. The additives in dirty oil boil out, contaminants form in the crankcase and eat metal parts, and water collects over time and forms sludge.
Engine manufacturers typically recommend an oil change every 100 hours, and at least once a year. Even if your engine manual allows for a longer interval between oil changes, changing the oil more often will extend the life of the engine. 
Although new vehicles can run longer on the same oil than older ones can, and improvements in motor oil have extended its efficiency over longer periods of time, to be on the safe side, you might want to change your oil every 5,000 miles or every six months, whichever comes first. Dirty oil just doesn't do the job as well as fresh oil does. The additives in dirty oil boil out, contaminants form in the crankcase and eat metal parts, and water collects over time and forms sludge.
1 Change your engine oil at the vehicle manufacturer's recommended service interval that matches your vehicle's operating conditions and your driving habits. 2  Check your tire inflation pressure monthly. 3  Rotate your tires at the vehicle manufacturer's recommended service interval or every 6 months/5,000 miles. When asked, you may hear answers such as every 3000, 5000 or 7500 miles, or when the vehicle's oil monitor indicates that this service is necessary. It is no wonder consumers are confused. The simplest answer...