Clostridium difficile colitis or pseudomembranous colitis is colitis (inflammation of the large intestine) resulting from infection with Clostridium difficile, a spore-forming bacterium. It causes an infectious diarrhea called C. difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD). 
Clostridium difficile (C. difficile, or C. diff) is a specific kind of bacterial infection that causes mild to life-threatening forms of diarrhea and colitis. It is caused by a bacteria, not a virus. Once you’re infected, it’s very easy to spread C. diff bacteria from one person to another, though it’s primarily spread between people by dirty hands and not washing hands before food preparation and eating. Click here for more info. C. difficile is a spore forming bacteria. A spore is a hard shell that some types of bacteria can wear to protect themselves in harsh environments for long periods of time (think of a seed). This hard shell makes C. difficile more difficult to treat, harder to clean, and easier to become contagious to other
Symptoms of C. diff. C. difficile infection can range from mild to life-threatening. Symptoms of mild cases include watery diarrhea, three or more times a day for several days, with abdominal pain or tenderness. Symptoms of more severe C. diff infection include: 1  Watery diarrhea, up to 15 times each day. 2  Severe abdominal pain. Other risk factors for C. diff infection include: 1  Surgery of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  Diseases of the colon such as inflammatory bowel disease or colorectal cancer. 3  A weakened immune system. 4  Use of chemotherapy drugs. 5  Previous C. diff infection. 6  Advanced age -- 65 or older. 7  Kidney disease.
Clostridium difficile, also known as C. difficile, or C. diff, is a bacterium which infects and can make humans ill, as well as other animals. Symptoms can range from diarrhea to serious and potentially fatal inflammation of the colon. Most C. diff infection symptoms occur in patients who are taking antibiotic medications. It is not unusual for symptoms to appear ten weeks after antibiotic therapy has stopped. In medicine, a risk factor is a condition, illness, situation or environment which raises the risk of developing a disease.
1 Clostridium difficile colitis is an infection of the colon by the bacterium, Clostridium difficile (C. difficile). 2  C. difficile causes colitis by producing toxins that damage the lining of the colon. 3  The symptoms of C. difficile colitis are fever, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. 1 The symptoms of C. difficile colitis are fever, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. 2  Serious complications of C. difficile colitis include dehydration, rupture of the colon, and spread of infection to the abdominal cavity or body. 3  Severe infection is life-threatening
Clostridium difficile redirects here. For the bacterium, see Clostridium difficile (bacteria) . Clostridium difficile colitis or pseudomembranous colitis is colitis (inflammation of the large intestine) resulting from infection with Clostridium difficile, a spore-forming bacterium. It causes an infectious diarrhea called C. difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD). 
What is Clostridium difficile (C. Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) is a bacterium that causes mild to severe diarrhea and intestinal conditions like pseudomembranous colitis (inflammation of the colon). 
One problem with antibiotics used to treat primary C. difficile infection is that the infection returns in about 20 percent of patients. In a small number of these patients, the infection returns over and over and can be quite debilitating. 