There are numerous exceptions, however—some viruses have genomes made of double-stranded RNA and other viruses have single-stranded DNA genomes, and, in some circumstances, nucleic acid structures with three or four strands can form. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides.
Section 6.3 Viruses: Structure, Function, and Uses. A virus is a small parasite that cannot reproduce by itself. Once it infects a susceptible cell, however, a virus can direct the cell machinery to produce more viruses. Most viruses have either RNA or DNA as their genetic material. The nucleic acid may be single-or double-stranded. What are central to the life cycle of a virus are the types of nucleic acids formed during its replication and the pathway by which mRNA is produced. The relation between the viral mRNA and the nucleic acid of the infectious particle is the basis of a simple means of classifying viruses.
Some scientists speculate that viruses started as rogue segments of genetic code that adapted to a parasitic existence. All viruses contain nucleic acid, either DNA or RNA (but not both), and a protein coat, which encases the nucleic acid. Some viruses are also enclosed by an envelope of fat and protein molecules. In its infective form, outside the cell, a virus particle is called a virion. Each virion contains at least one unique protein synthesized by specific genes in its nucleic acid. Other viruslike particles called prions are composed primarily of a protein tightly integrated with a small nucleic acid molecule. Viruses are generally classified by the organisms they infect, animals, plants, or bacteria.
Confidence votes 175. Viruses can have either DNA or RNA (a virus will never have both at the same time, although some viruses can have each one separately at different stages of their life cycles). RNA viruses are much more common than DNA viruses. 1 Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing for the Diagnosis of STDs The purpose of the nucleic acid amplification test (NAT or NAAT) is to find trace amounts of RNA or DNA in test samples. 2  With regard to STD testing, there are tests available…
Nucleic Acid-Just as in cells, the nucleic acid of each virus encodes the genetic information for the synthesis of all proteins. While the double-stranded DNA is responsible for this in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, only a few groups of viruses use DNA. Other viruslike particles called prions are composed primarily of a protein tightly integrated with a small nucleic acid molecule. Viruses are generally classified by the organisms they infect, animals, plants, or bacteria.
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides. Nucleic acids are among the most important biological macromolecules (others being amino acids/proteins, sugars/carbohydrates, and lipids/fats)
About the Flu Virus. Influenza, or flu, is a respiratory infection caused by any of several flu viruses, which are classified as type A, B, or C based on their nucleic acids and protein composition. Type A viruses are found in humans and many animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, and whales. Flu (Influenza) Cause