By the use of selective radioactively labeled agonist and antagonist substances, five subtypes of muscarinic receptors have been determined, named M 1 -M 5 (using an upper case M and subscript number). M 1 ,M 3 ,M 5 receptors are coupled with Gq proteins, while M 2 and M 4 receptors are coupled with G i/o proteins. Meanwhile, geneticists and molecular biologists have characterised five genes that appear to encode muscarinic receptors, named m1-m5 (lowercase m; no subscript number). The first four code for pharmacologic types M 1 -M 4.
The classical site of muscarinic receptors is at the postganglionic parasympathetic neuroeffector junction in smooth muscle, heart, and exocrine glands. However, muscarinic receptors also exist on effectors cells, even in the absence of cholinergic innervation. Prototype agonists include muscarine and ACh. 
Initially, on the basis of pharmacological selective affinity to the muscarinic agonist pirenzepine, two subtypes of muscarinic receptors, M 1 R and M 2 R, were described (61). In 1987, using molecular cloning techniques, Bonner et al. (14) described five muscarinic receptor subtypes (M 1 R–M 5 R). 
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, or mAChRs, are acetylcholine receptors that form G protein-receptor complexes in the cell membranes of certain neurons and other cells. Meanwhile, geneticists and molecular biologists have characterised five genes that appear to encode muscarinic receptors, named m1-m5 (lowercase m; no subscript number). The first four code for pharmacologic types M 1 -M 4.
The figure below shows the two main families of acetylcholine receptors: muscarinic and nicotinic. In structural terms, muscarinic receptors are G-coupled protein receptors, while nicotinic receptors are ligand-gated ion channels. They can be found on both sides of the synaptic cleft (presynaptic and postsynaptic). Nicotinic receptors. Unlike muscarinic receptors (which are G-protein coupled receptors), nicotinic receptors are ligand-gated ion channels. When bound to acetylcholine, these receptors undergo a conformational change that allows the entry of sodium ions, resulting in the depolarization of the effector cell.
Another role for these receptors is at the junction of the innervated tissue and the postganglionic neuron in the parasympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system. Here acetylcholine is again used as a neurotransmitter, and muscarinic receptors form the principal receptors on the innervated tissue. Meanwhile, geneticists and molecular biologists have characterised five genes that appear to encode muscarinic receptors, named m1-m5 (lowercase m; no subscript number). The first four code for pharmacologic types M 1 -M 4.
Where Muscarinic Receptors Are Located. Muscarinic receptors are located in the: (See also Figure 5). 1  Parasympathetic nervous system. 2  Cardiac conduction system. 3  Exocrine glands. 4  Smooth muscles. 5  Sympathetic nervous system. 6  Sweat glands. 7  Central nervous system. The key response differences between muscarinic and nicotinic receptors is that the response of muscarinic receptors: (Hoffman and Taylor 2001). 1  Is slower. 2  May be excitatory or inhibitory.
Muscarinic receptors are G-protein linked receptors that are activated by acetylcholine. That makes A) true. Both nicotinic and muscarinic ACh receptors are located on the postganglionic cells in both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. However, neither ACh receptor is located on the preganglionic cells of either the sympathetic or parasympathetic systems. 
The cholinergic/acetylcholine receptor M3, also known as the muscarinic 3, is a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. It is encoded by the human gene CHRM3. The M 3 muscarinic receptors are located at many places in the body, e.g., smooth muscles, the endocrine glands, the exocrine glands, lungs, pancreas and the brain. In the CNS, they induce emesis. Like the M 1 muscarinic receptor, M 3 receptors are coupled to G proteins of class Gq, which upregulate phospholipase C and, therefore, inositol trisphosphate and intracellular calcium as a signalling pathway. The calcium function in vertebrates also involves activation of protein kinase C and its effects.