Follow these instructions if you already have a Fitbit account and want to replace your existing tracker with a new one: 1  Open the Fitbit app and log in. 2  Tap the Account tab. 3  Tap Set up a New Fitbit Device. 4  Choose your product and follow the onscreen instructions to continue. If your tracker still doesn’t work after a restart, contact Customer Support. 1  Plug your charging cable into the USB port and insert the other end into the port on the back of your Charge. 2  Press and hold the button for 10 to 12 seconds until you see the Fitbit icon and a version number (e.g. “V30″). 3  Let go of the button. 4  Unplug your tracker from ...
Get a better picture of your health by using Charge HR to automatically track and sync your sleep trends. Then, wake peacefully by setting a silent, vibrating alarm. Get a better picture of your overall health by using Charge HR to automatically track how long and how well you sleep. Sync your nightly stats to see online graphs that illustrate your sleep trends, and wake peacefully by setting a silent, vibrating alarm. start with heart. Get continuous, automatic, wrist-based heart rate tracking from Charge HR. Monitor calorie burn, maintain workout intensity and more—all without an uncomfortable chest strap. Let your heart be your guide with
Setting up your tracker with the Fitbit app for iOS. You can use the Fitbit app to set up a tracker with your new or existing Fitbit account. After set up, your tracker will synchronize its data with the Fitbit app, allowing you to view your stats, log food, and more. If your tracker still doesn’t work after a restart, contact Customer Support. 1  Plug your charging cable into the USB port and insert the other end into the port on the back of your Charge. 2  Press and hold the button for 10 to 12 seconds until you see the Fitbit icon and a version number (e.g. “V30″). 3  Let go of the button. 4  Unplug your tracker from ...
Enable Call Notifications. The Fitbit Charge can display call notifications from a connected device. Just make sure your Fitbit and smartphone are paired up, and then enable the call notifications option in the Fitbit app settings. Follow the onscreen instructions and it will walk you through the entire process. 
The trick for setting up a replacement Fitbit & connecting it to your old account is to start up the process just like you are registering a brand new Fitbit & account. So visit http://www.fitbit.com/start then click the start button. then download the install file. then Run it. click finish go to “Proceed to account setup…”. here is where you highlight that you are setting up a replacement device. and then you just login to your old account & set up the fitbit like normal. go through the last few steps of the set up process.
To determine whether your device supports this feature, go to http://www.fitbit.com/devices. Enabling call notifications To enable call notifications on your Charge: 1. If you have not already done so, confirm that your device is compatible for call notifications at http://www.fitbit.com/devices. 2. Enable Bluetooth on your mobile device. 3. Open the Fitbit app on your mobile device and select your Charge. You can update your Chargeby using the Fitbit app on your mobile device or by using Fitbit Connect on your computer. To update your Charge using Fitbit Connect: 1. Plug in your dongle and have your tracker nearby, turned on, and charged. 2. Open Fitbit Connect.
NOTE: You will will need to turn off the GPS component of the Fitbit app in order for your steps to successfully transfer. Mobile Sync-The easiest method to sync your Fitbit is via mobile app. However, to install desktop software. Log into Walkingspree. Go to My My Account. Click on the tab My Apps and click on install. This is now called Fitbit connection versus Fitbit Synchronization.
What you’ll find in the box Your Fitbit Charge HR Wireless Heart Rate + Activity Wristband box includes: Charge HR wristband Charging cable Wireless sync dongle What’s you’ll find in this document This manual gets you started quickly with setting up your tracker. You can create up to 8 silent alarms. Setting silent alarms You can add, edit, and delete silent alarms from the Fitbit app on your mobile device or in the Fitbit.com dashboard. To set silent alarms using your Fitbit.com dashboard: 1. Log in to your Fitbit.com dashboard. 2.
Setting up your tracker using a Mac or PC To set up your Charge HR using your computer, you’ll first install Fitbit Connect. Fitbit Connect is the software application that connects (“pairs”) your Charge HR to your Fitbit.com dashboard, where you can view your data, log food, and more. You can create up to 8 silent alarms. Setting silent alarms You can add, edit, and delete silent alarms from the Fitbit app on your mobile device or in the Fitbit.com dashboard. To set silent alarms using your Fitbit.com dashboard: 1. Log in to your Fitbit.com dashboard. 2.
Setting up your tracker with a Mac or PC To set up your Charge using your computer, you’ll first install Fitbit Connect. Fitbit Connect is the software application that connects (“pairs”) your Charge to your Fitbit.com dashboard and services. You can update your Chargeby using the Fitbit app on your mobile device or by using Fitbit Connect on your computer. To update your Charge using Fitbit Connect: 1. Plug in your dongle and have your tracker nearby, turned on, and charged. 2. Open