1 Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 2  If eggs start out as Grade AA, they remain AA for only two weeks if properly refrigerated. 3  After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks.   Eggs … can remain edible for even longer than one month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks.   There is an expiration date on the carton. If in doubt, put the egg in water.
Hard boiled eggs must be refrigerated. You can extend the answer to how long do hard boiled eggs last by storing them in your fridge (refrigerator) immediately after preparation or use. Once prepared, hard boiled eggs should be stored in a tightly closed container in the fridge to keep out moisture and other contaminants. 
Expert answer: We tell consumers to look to the egg carton sell-by dates to judge freshness. The USDA says that the date can be no further ahead than 30 days after the packing date. Your store can choose any day within that 30 days to date the eggs. If you don't find a date on the carton, using the eggs within three weeks of the carton date should allow them to be used within optimum quality, meaning the yolk will be high and upstanding, and the white will be tall and firm. It's important to get tips on how to protect yourself and your family from food-related illnesses. It's sometimes easy to determine when food in your refrigerator has gone bad. All you usually have to do is check for mold, or for a foul odor. But eggs can be a little harder to determin
No Follow. Refrigerate leftover hard-cooked eggs in the shell within two hours of cooking them and they should keep well for over one to one and a half weeks. It's best to place them in a container or plastic bag so they don't absorb refrigerator smells and flavors
It can even keep eggs fresh for awhile without any refrigeration and extend refrigeration by a week at least. 1  Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks.   Eggs … can remain edible for even longer than one month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks.   There is an expiration date on the carton. If in doubt, put the egg in water.
To properly answer the question of how long do eggs last, how long are eggs good for, or the shelf life of eggs, a variety of factors must be examined such as the sell by date and how the eggs have been stored. So, if you want to freeze your eggs to extend their shelf life, it is best to crack the eggs into a freezer safe container and gently blend in 1/2 teaspoon of salt before freezing. The eggs can then be thawed and used, but these eggs will not rise much if later used in baked goods.
1 Eggs out of the shell will usually stay good for 2 to 4 days in the fridge and one year in the freezer; egg yolks and egg whites may also be frozen separately and used later for cooking or baking purposes. 
Once refrigerated, they must continue to stay in the fridge until use, but will stay good up to 6 months (or more) only who keeps eggs that long anyway. Oh, yeah, commercial egg producers. Store bought eggs can be an average of 3 weeks to 3 months old by the time you buy them. Fresh eggs are very hardy. 
Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe. After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks.   Eggs … can remain edible for even longer than one month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks.   There is an expiration date on the carton. If in doubt, put the egg in water.