In captivity, Canada geese have breed with other geese species, such as greylag geese, snow geese and barnacle geese, to form hybrid goslings. This is less common in nature; however, it may happen when orphaned chicks are adopted by other species, or when geese lay their eggs in the nests of other species. In captivity, the longest lived goose was 80 years old. In the wild, the oldest goose was reportedly 30 years and 4 months old. This is an extraordinary lifespan for a wild bird; the life expectancy for most wild geese is 12 years.
Canada geese (Branta canadensis) are among the most familiar birds in Washington. They are a source of recreation for bird watchers and hunters and symbolize nature for many people. No one can miss the clear honking call of Canada geese when they fly overhead in their V-shaped formation. Canada geese hatched in urban environments may have very low first-year mortalities due to the abundance of food and relative scarcity of natural predators. Canada geese can live more than 20 years in captivity; in the wild they have a much shorter life span.
Share to: A goose is a large waterfowl; they are similar to ducks and swans. its similar like a duck but diffirent A goose are considerable number of birds, belonging to the family An … atidae. This family also includes swans, most of which are larger than true geese, and ducks, which are smaller. 
Canada geese (Branta canadensis) are native to Canada, the United States, and Mexico. They can be found throughout most of North America, but Canada geese usually spend the winter in southern parts of the continent. In captivity, the longest lived goose was 80 years old. In the wild, the oldest goose was reportedly 30 years and 4 months old. This is an extraordinary lifespan for a wild bird; the life expectancy for most wild geese is 12 years.
Canada geese are usually found in open, grassy habitats. These birds usually avoid areas with tall grass and shrubs because it can hide predators. This species prefers to live near water including ponds, marshes, rivers, or coastlines. In captivity, the longest lived goose was 80 years old. In the wild, the oldest goose was reportedly 30 years and 4 months old. This is an extraordinary lifespan for a wild bird; the life expectancy for most wild geese is 12 years.
LIFE SPAN. Many geese can live to be 20-25 years old. If you get a goose, be prepared to have it around for quite a while! Actually, be prepared to have a couple of them around for quite a while, as geese by nature hang around in groups and need companionship. LIVING QUARTERS. Our geese are in a large, fenced enclosure with shade ramadas, several water containers (including a large one for swimming), seed containers, and a large patch of grass. I've seen people keep geese without giving them water to swim in, but that doesn't seem fair, as they love the water.
Ducks and geese live near ponds and lakes. they live right around the edge so they can hatch there young and take them straight into the water to swim! 
Canada geese have long black heads and necks, and they have a distinct white mark near their chin. Their plumage includes brown-grey feathers on their back and cream or white feathers on their belly and rump. Males of this species are slightly larger than females, but both weigh between 3 to 10.9 kg. In captivity, the longest lived goose was 80 years old. In the wild, the oldest goose was reportedly 30 years and 4 months old. This is an extraordinary lifespan for a wild bird; the life expectancy for most wild geese is 12 years.
General: Canada Geese are waterfowl that live throughout most of North America. They are famous for their life-long mating, though a widowed goose will usually choose another mate. The gray area in the picture to the left represents the Canada Goose's breeding area. As you can see, it's extremely widespread. 
The Canada goose (Branta canadensis) is a large wild goose species with a black head and neck, white patches on the face, and a brown body. Native to arctic and temperate regions of North America, its migration occasionally reaches northern Europe. This is recorded from the many tagged geese which frequent the East Coast. Canada geese fly in a distinctive V-shaped flight formation, with an altitude of 1 km (3,000 feet) for migration flight. The maximum flight ceiling of Canada geese is unknown, but they have been reported at 9 km (29,000 feet).