DEFINITION of 'Genetically Modified Food (GMF)'. Food that is produced from organisms that have had their genes engineered to introduce traits that have not been created through natural selection. Genetically modified foods have been commercially available since the 1990s, and is most often associated with fruits and vegetables. Genetically modifying a food involves introducing a gene into a fruit, vegetable, or animal from another organism.
Genetic (recombinant DNA) engineering is the manipulation of DNA molecules to produce modified plants, animals, or other organisms. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) is a double-stranded molecule that is present in every cell of an organism and contains the hereditary information that passes from parents to offspring.
A GMO (genetically modified organism) is the result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal. The foreign genes may come from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans.
GMO seeds, most people believe, are genetically modified with genes from fish, herbicide-resistant proteins and other chemicals, rather than DNA from another plant. GMO, in fact, refers to a seed or plant that has different DNA than its parent.
Genetically modified food (GM food) is food which has been produced using organisms that have been engineered genetically (GM organisms). GM food either contains GM organisms, or GM organisms have been used to create the food. Common examples include maize, soybean, cotton and rapeseed.
Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally, e.g. through the introduction of a gene from a different organism.
GMOs are Genetically Modified Organisms. One of the most important GMO facts is that GMOs are adapted with beneficial traits that help them thrive in their environment. Think drought-tolerant corn, or pest-resistant soybeans that need less bug spraying.