If you were married for 12 years, and one spouse was in the military for 10 of those 12 years, the other spouse would be entitled to a direct payment from DFAS.
The 5 most common questions I typically get from clients about alimony are: 1) How long do you have to be married to receive alimony in PA? Length of the marriage, albeit an important factor in the alimony statute, is but one of the 17 factors to be considered by the court.
A general rule is that spousal support will last for half the length of a less than 10 years long marriage. However, in longer marriages, the court will not set alimony duration. The burden will be on the party who pays to prove that spousal support is not necessary at some future point in time.
And if you earn substantially more money than a spouse to whom you have been married for several years, there is a good chance you will be ordered to pay some alimony. On the other hand, alimony generally isn't awarded for short marriages or where you and your spouse earn close to the same amount.
For marriages that lasted less than 10 years, the judge may order that alimony be paid for a period equal to one-half the length of the marriage. Therefore, for a couple who was married for eight years, alimony may be ordered for four years.
In California, a judge will use the length of time a marriage lasted to determine how long the receiving spouse will receive alimony. If the marriage is considered of long duration, meaning that the couple was married for 10 years or longer, the court may award alimony for an extended period of time.
In order for the military to provide direct retirement payments to an ex-spouse, the couple must have been married 10 years overlapping with 10 years of service.
Attorney. How long you have to be married in order to get alimony varies widely from state to state. While some states set a minimum standard of at least 10 years, other states limit the amount of alimony you can receive rather than saying how long you have to have been married before you can receive it.
As with most issues in your divorce, you and your spouse can agree to the amount and length of time alimony will be paid. But if you can't agree, a court will set the terms for you. Unfortunately, having a court make the decision means there will be a trial, and that can cost you a lot of time and money.