*When fully occupied, Terminal 2 will have 332 daily flights to 54 global destinations. *Terminal 2 is a £2.5 billion project. *The first flights arrived at Heathrow’s new Terminal 2 on 4 June; almost 60 years after the original Terminal 2 opened as the airport’s first passenger terminal in 1955. 17 AUGUST 2014 - Today marks one month until our move to the new Terminal 2 at Heathrow Airport! The countdown is on, and signage is being placed in our current check-in and lounge areas to inform customers of the upcoming move.
As of today, Croatia Airlines, the Croatian flag carrier and a member of Star Alliance, carries out its operations at the London Heathrow Airport at the new Terminal 2. The official move from Terminal 1 to the new residence, known as the Queen's Terminal, was marked today at about 13.30 p.m. with the arrival of 128 passengers on flight OU490 from Zagreb. That was the beginning of a new experience at the busiest European hub for Croatia Airlines customers.
United is first to fly to Heathrow's new Terminal 2. United Airlines says it today became the first airline to fly to London Heathrow's new Terminal 2, dubbed The Queen's Terminal.. The carrier's first arrival was United Flight 958, a Boeing 767 arriving from. Post to Facebook. ARCHIVES: Heathrow: New terminal will be 'The Queen's Terminal' (June 2013). MORE: Sneak peek: Heathrow's new T2 'Star Alliance' terminal. United says the Terminal 2 flights bring all of its operations at Heathrow — previously split between Terminals 1 and 4 — under one roof for the first time.
In 2012 Terminal 3 handled 18.4 million passengers on 92,639 flights. 25% of the airport's passengers, making it the second busiest terminal after Terminal 5 but only 20% of the airport's flights, which is fewer than both Terminal 5 and Terminal 1. Terminal 3 is used by the majority of Oneworld alliance members, American Airlines, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Japan Airlines, Qantas, Royal Jordanian. SriLankan Airlines, TAM and British Airways who also use Terminal 5.
View Terminal Maps. Heathrow Airport's Terminal 1 has now permanently closed. For information on the other terminals, do check out our guides on Terminal 2, Terminal 3, Terminal 4 and Terminal 5. Please use the links below to find out about various facilities offered in Heathrow's other terminals. 1  Baggage Enquirie
Heathrow Terminal 3 is an airport terminal at Heathrow Airport, serving London, the capital city of the United Kingdom. Terminal 3 is currently used by Oneworld members and a few other non-affiliated airlines. It is also the hub for Virgin Atlantic 's long-haul operations. Terminal 3 is used by the majority of Oneworld alliance members, American Airlines, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Japan Airlines, Qantas, Royal Jordanian. SriLankan Airlines, TAM and British Airways who also use Terminal 5.
Of these, 25 flights will operate between London Heathrow and popular U.S. destinations such as Los Angeles, San Francisco, Atlanta and Washington. Delta and Virgin Atlantic also provide a competitive offering for the New York to London travel market. 
In this photo from April 23, 2014, a man walks in the under-construction departure lounge of Heathrow airport's new Terminal 2. (Photo: Oli Scarff, Getty Images). United Airlines on Wednesday became the first airline to fly to London Heathrow's new Terminal 2, dubbed The Queen's Terminal.. The carrier's first arrival was United Flight 958, a Boeing 767 arriving from Chicago O'Hare to Terminal 2's gate 38B at 5:49 a.m. local time. ARCHIVES: Heathrow: New terminal will be 'The Queen's Terminal' (June 2013). MORE: Sneak peek: Heathrow's new T2 'Star Alliance' terminal. United says the Terminal 2 flights bring all of its operations at Heathrow — previously split between Terminals 1 and 4 — under one roof for the first time.