Yes nitrogen is a diatomic. All the diatomic atoms in the periodic table are hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine and astatide. + 2 others found this useful. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes nitrogen is a diatomic. All the diatomic atoms in the periodic table are hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine and astatide. 
Nitrogen (N2) is a diatomic gas which comprises 78 percent of the earth’s atmosphere. Colorless, odorless, tasteless, and nontoxic, nitrogen exists as a nonflammable gas at atmospheric temperatures and pressures. 
Diatomic molecules are molecules composed of only two atoms, of either the same or different chemical elements. The prefix di-is of Greek origin, meaning two. If a diatomic molecule consists of two atoms of the same element, such as hydrogen (H 2) or oxygen (O 2), then it is said to be homonuclear. Otherwise, if a diatomic molecule consists of two different atoms, such as carbon monoxide (CO) or nitric oxide (NO), the molecule is said to be heteronuclear. Hundreds of diatomic molecules have been identified in the environment of the Earth, in the laboratory, and in interstellar space. About 99% of the Earth's atmosphere is composed of two species of diatomic molecules: nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (21%).
Report Abuse. nitrogen by itself is a diatomic molecule at STP (and pretty much in all conditions for that matter). This is so because Nitrogen has 5 valence electrons so each shares 3 electrons with the other. This gives each an unshared electron pair plus the 6 being shared between the two Nitrogen atoms. 
Nitrogen is a chemical element with symbol N and atomic number 7. It is the lightest pnictogen and at room temperature, it is a transparent, odorless diatomic gas. Nitrogen is a common element in the universe, estimated at about seventh in total abundance in the Milky Way and the Solar System.
The only chemical elements that form stable homonuclear diatomic molecules at standard temperature and pressure (STP) (or typical laboratory conditions of 1 bar and 25 °C) are the gases hydrogen (H 2), nitrogen (N 2), oxygen (O 2), fluorine (F 2), and chlorine (Cl 2). Hundreds of diatomic molecules have been identified in the environment of the Earth, in the laboratory, and in interstellar space. About 99% of the Earth's atmosphere is composed of two species of diatomic molecules: nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (21%).
Chlorine. Bromine. The diatomic elements are the – ine halogens (fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine) and elements with a – gen ending (hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen). Astatine is another halogen, but its behavior is not known. A diatomic element is a molecule of an element consisting of two atoms. It is a form of homonuclear diatomic molcule. There are only 7 diatomic elements in total and only 5 diatomic elements at standard temperature and pressure (STP).
It is made of one hydrogen atom and one chlorine atom. Diatomic molecules are either homonuclear or heteronuclear. Homonuclear diatomic molecules are composed of two atoms of the same element, like in the case of oxygen and nitrogen shown in the illustration here. The subscript 2 of oxygen and nitrogen indicates the number of oxygen atoms and nitrogen atoms. So the oxygen molecules present in the atmosphere have two oxygen atoms and the nitrogen molecules have two nitrogen atoms. There are also other diatomic molecules that we encounter every day.
There are seven elements that occur naturally as homonuclear diatomic molecules. All of these molecules are in the gaseous state. Five of these elements-hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, and chlorine-occur as diatomic elements at room temperature, which is 25 degrees Celsius. The subscript 2 of oxygen and nitrogen indicates the number of oxygen atoms and nitrogen atoms. So the oxygen molecules present in the atmosphere have two oxygen atoms and the nitrogen molecules have two nitrogen atoms. There are also other diatomic molecules that we encounter every day.