From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The red-bellied piranha or red piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri) is a species of piranha native to South America, found in the Amazon River Basin, coastal rivers of northeastern Brazil, and the basins of the Paraguay and Parana. paraná The red-bellied piranha is not a migratory species, but does search for conditions conducive to reproduction during seasons of increased rainfall. Red-bellied piranhas are omnivores and primarily foragers. They feed on insects, fish, plants, and organic debris.
Most people have a misconception that the more piranhas in the tank the more aggressive they will be, this is not true, infact keeping too many piranha together only contributes to their skittishness. For healthy fish stay away from feeders. Piranhas do well with beef heart, shrimp, krill, steak, chicken, smelt, nightcrawlers, squid, fish fillets, pork and other various frozen meats. Make sure the meats do not contain any preservatives because they will destroy your fish's digestive system.
The red-bellied piranha or red piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri) is a species of piranha native to South America, found in the Amazon River Basin, coastal rivers of northeastern Brazil, and the basins of the Paraguay and Parana. Paraná they are omnivorous foragers and feed on, insects, worms crustaceans and. fish The red-bellied piranha is not a migratory species, but does search for conditions conducive to reproduction during seasons of increased rainfall. Red-bellied piranhas are omnivores and primarily foragers. They feed on insects, fish, plants, and organic debris.
Most Ferocious: Piranha Pygocentrus nattereri. From the moment tiny baby piranhas hatch from their microscopic eggs, they come into the world armed and dangerous. Baby piranha will feast on tiny crustaceans, fruits, seeds, and aquatic plants. Once they reach about 1.5 inches in length they begin feeding on the fins and flesh of other fish that wander too closely. 
Piranhas only exist in nature in South America. And has never been introduced in any other place neither by accident nor deliberate. The natural ranges of the Piranhas are (se map above) the Orinoco, the Guyana, the Amazon, the Rio Sao Francisco, the Rio Paraguay and the Rio Parana. 
Report Abuse. Piranhas live ONLY in Central and South America, with most living in the Amazon River. Unlike the ridiculous Hollywood movies you see, they are not as horrible as they seem. On the shores of the Amazon River, where these fish flourish, small native children play and swim in the water with no fear of being attacked. Piranhas are found in the Amazon basin, in the Orinoco, in rivers of the Guyanas, in the Paraguay-Parana, paraná and The Sao São francisco. river systems
Piranhas come from the Amazon Basin in South America. They can be found from the Orinoco River basin in Venezuela south to the Parana paraná In. Argentina although piranhas originate in The, amazon there are some species that have been introduced To china And. bangladesh 
These fishes have a terrible reputation for murder and massacre. They deserve every bit of it. Their native home is in South America where they thrive in the slow, muddy streams that feed the Orinoco and great Amazon rivers. There the toothy little monsters gang up and devour any living creature that comes within range. 