Vegetarian diets can be very healthy and may even lower the risk of heart disease, Type 2 diabetes, and cancer. However, eating a balanced diet when you are vegetarian usually requires a little extra attention.
Vegetarian diet: How to get the best nutrition. A well-planned vegetarian diet can meet the needs of people of all ages, including children, teenagers, and pregnant or breast-feeding women. The key is to be aware of your nutritional needs so that you plan a diet that meets them.
Good health could be related to a diet of mostly fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Keep a balance. As a vegetarian, you can still eat a balanced diet. 1  Substitutes for 1 oz (28 g) of meat: 2  ¼ cup cooked dried beans, peas, or lentils. 3  1 egg or 2 egg whites, or ¼ cup egg substitute. 4  ½ oz (1 Tbsp) nuts or seeds.
1 Lacto-ovo vegetarian diets exclude meat, fish and poultry, but allow dairy products and eggs. 2  Ovo-vegetarian diets exclude meat, poultry, seafood and dairy products, but allow eggs. 3  Vegan diets exclude meat, poultry, fish, eggs and dairy products — and foods that contain these products.
As a vegan diet is completely free of meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy products, if you don't do your research, you might not be getting enough vital nutrients. Some vegan diets, if not appropriately planned, could be lacking in protein, calcium, vitamin D, vitamin B12, zinc, iron and omega-3 fatty acids.
Yes, a vegan diet-one that excludes all animal products including meat, poultry, fish, dairy and eggs-can be very healthy if properly planned. Many studies suggest that vegetarians are less likely to be overweight and have a lower risk of heart disease and certain cancers. How to roast vegetables.
1 Lacto-vegetarian diets exclude meat, fish, poultry and eggs, as well as foods that contain them. 2  Dairy products, such as milk, cheese, yogurt and butter, are included. 3  Lacto-ovo vegetarian diets exclude meat, fish and poultry, but allow dairy products and eggs.
Lacto vegetarian: Lacto vegetarians don’t eat meat or eggs, but do eat dairy products. Ovo vegetarian: Ovo vegetarians don’t eat meat or dairy, but do eat eggs. Vegan: Vegans avoid eating any animal products. They don’t eat any meat products, milk, cheese, eggs, honey, or gelatin.
Pesci–vegetarian: Pesci–vegetarians eat fish, dairy, and eggs but don’t eat meat or poultry. Lacto–ovo vegetarian: Lacto–ovo vegetarians don’t eat meat, but do eat eggs and dairy products (ovo means eggs and lacto means dairy). This is the most common type of vegetarian diet.