This goes to the very heart of the liberal/conservative debate  and, as you can imagine, it s not pretty. Our government says that you should cook a whole chicken until the temperature measured in the thigh is 180°F (82°C). If you cook chicken pieces, the government says, the thigh, wings, and drumsticks should be 180°F, while the breast should reach 170°F (77°C). It is also virtually assured that no one would ever eat chicken again. If you cook a whole chicken until the thigh reaches 180 °F, the breast will be around 170°F, and the whole thing will have turned to rubber.
You will have moister chicken if you cook to 160 degrees F. According to Dr. O. Peter Snyder, the chicken has to reach a temperature of 160 degrees F for 5.2 seconds to kill pathogens. Many experts recommend that chicken breast meat must be cooked to an internal temperature of 170 degrees F, but others say 160 degrees F is fine.
Very generally, you would let them cook for 45 minutes to an hour at 350 degrees F. When checking chicken for doneness, insert a knife or fork in the thickest portion of the … meat. If it is done, the juices will run out clear, if not, the juices will have a pinkish tinge and you should let them cook a little longer. A whole chicken should reach 165 degrees Fahrenheit to be considered fully cooked.    The internal temperature for chicken should reach 160 to 165 degrees F. 8 people found this useful.
So cook the chicken to a safe internal temperature and your food will always be safe. So buy yourself a reliable meat thermometer you can buy at Amazon.com and get ready to always make moist, tender, and juicy boneless, skinless chicken breasts. Many experts recommend that chicken breast meat must be cooked to an internal temperature of 170 degrees F, but others say 160 degrees F is fine.
If you handle chicken properly, but cook it to a lower temperature, you may be exposing yourself to a very slight risk of food poisoning, but eating consistently tasty chicken. We try never to roast a chicken beyond 160°F in the breast, but that s our choice. It is also virtually assured that no one would ever eat chicken again. If you cook a whole chicken until the thigh reaches 180 °F, the breast will be around 170°F, and the whole thing will have turned to rubber.
A cooking or meat thermometer should not be a sometime thing.. Use it every time you prepare foods like poultry, roasts, hams, casseroles, meat loaves and egg dishes. I, too, have seen recipes that call for cooking the chicken over a hour. I just ignore their inaccurate times and use the following logic: One and a half hours is much too long to cook the chicken at 350 degrees F. The time your chicken will bake in the oven does depend on the internal temperature and the size of your chicken or chicken pieces. Generally I bake chicken at 350 degrees F. for 30 to 40 minutes. 
Kitchen Fact: The safe internal temperature for cooked chicken is 165° Fahrenheit (75° Celsius). A meat or instant-read thermometer is your best bet for determining the temperature of your chicken, and if you're cooking a whole bird, it should be inserted into the thickest part of the thigh but not touching bone. 165 degrees Fahrenheit is the safe internal temperature for both the white meat and dark meat. If you don't have a thermometer, an easy visual clue is that all the juices that come from the chicken should run clear and not be pink.
Handling Leftover Chicken. Cooked chicken should not be left at room temperature for more than two hours. Package it up in an air-tight container and store it in the fridge for up to two days. Chicken should reach 165 degrees F (75 degrees C). The meat will continue to cook once removed from the heat. So if the temperature is a few degrees below the target–keep the thermometer in place for a moment; the temperature might climb to a safe heat.
Now the USDA is recommending that, because of bird flu fears, chicken should be cooked to a temperature of 165 degrees F. Remember that the meat will continue to cook after it's removed from the heat; the internal temperature will rise about 5-10 degrees in the first few minutes it's off the heat. Many experts recommend that chicken breast meat must be cooked to an internal temperature of 170 degrees F, but others say 160 degrees F is fine.