If the graft does not heal-this is called a pseudoarthrosis or non-union. The chance of the non-union is higher with PEEK cages and allograft and diminished with autograft. The time to healing for your own bone is about 6-8 weeks. The time to healing with allograft is about 3-4 months and with PEEK cages about 4 months. The way to determine healing is with X-rays including flexion and extension films. If there is any uncertainty, then a CT scan can be performed which is much more accurate.
One of the risks of any spine fusion surgery is a lack of healing of the bone graft, which is known as a pseudarthrosis. There are a number of factors that can affect this outcome after spine fusion surgery. These can include: Others are not. In particular, the evidence linking cigarette smoking and pseudarthrosis is very strong, and it has been clearly demonstrated that nicotine inhibits the bone growing cells (osteoblasts), which are necessary to achieve a successful spine fusion.
Recovery from Spinal Fusion. After your spinal fusion is completed, you will need a period of recovery and observation before you are released from the hospital. Initially, you will be observed for reactions to the anesthesia and surgery. You will typically remain in the hospital between three and four days following your spinal fusion. 
Recovery following fusion surgery is generally longer than for other types of spinal surgery. Patients generally stay in the hospital for three or four days, but a longer stay after more extensive surgery is not uncommon. Fusion is a surgical technique in which one or more of the vertebrae of the spine are united together (“fused”) so that motion no longer occurs between them. The concept of fusion is similar to that of welding in industry. Spinal fusion surgery, however, does not weld the vertebrae during surgery.
Recovery following fusion surgery is generally longer than for other types of spinal surgery. Patients generally stay in the hospital for three or four days, but a longer stay after more extensive surgery is not uncommon. Unfortunately, current techniques to precisely identify which of the many structures in the spine could be the source of a patient’s back or neck pain are not perfect. Because it can be so hard to locate the source of pain, treatment of back or neck pain alone by spinal fusion is somewhat controversial.
I had a C4 to C6 fusion. My bones accepted my donor's bones well and my cervical spine fused properly to the donor graft. It took 8 weeks before I could return to University. I got my neck brace off at about 8 weeks, but I didn't feel completely better for at least another 10 weeks. Sooo, I personally returned to life after about 2 months. I believe the precise question is how long does it take a virgin to heal after her first sexual encounter. From a medical point of view, a virgin is a girl with an intact hy … men. Sometime, it can be very small or already opened by other physical activities before actual sex.
Fusion is a surgical technique in which one or more of the vertebrae of the spine are united together (“fused”) so that motion no longer occurs between them. The concept of fusion is similar to that of welding in industry. Spinal fusion surgery, however, does not weld the vertebrae immediately during surgery. Unfortunately, current techniques to precisely identify which of the many structures in the spine could be the source of a patient’s back or neck pain are not perfect. Because it can be so hard to locate the source of pain, treatment of back or neck pain alone by spinal fusion is somewhat controversial.
It it is allowed to regrow the length of time depends upon how much new regrowth is required. If you injured a nerve in your lumbar spine (i.e. your low back), that may be 1 meters worth of growth to get to the feet. At 1-2 mm per day, that may take up 500 to 1000 days. I believe the precise question is how long does it take a virgin to heal after her first sexual encounter. From a medical point of view, a virgin is a girl with an intact hy … men. Sometime, it can be very small or already opened by other physical activities before actual sex.
The bone may be taken either from another bone in the patient (autograft) or from a bone bank (allograft). Fusion using bone taken from the patient has a long history of use and results in predictable healing. Autograft is currently the “gold standard” source of bone for a fusion. The iliac crest is a common donor site for autograft. Allograft (bone bank) bone may be used as an alternative to the patient’s own bone. Unfortunately, current techniques to precisely identify which of the many structures in the spine could be the source of a patient’s back or neck pain are not perfect. Because it can be so hard to locate the source of pain, treatment of back or neck pain alone by spinal fusion is somewhat controversial.