The most common compound is water. Its molecule is made up of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. Hydrogen is the most common atom in the universe, and oxygen is the thrid … most common, so water has to be the number one compound. 289, 758.)   However water is the most common substance on the surface of the  Earth.   In the atmosphere, Nitrogen is the most common element (78%).
Among the more common of such  native elements  are copper, silver, gold, carbon (as coal, graphite, or diamonds), and sulfur. All but a few of the most inert elements, such as noble gases and noble metals, are usually found on Earth in chemically combined form, as chemical compounds. There are 80 elements that have at least one stable isotope and 38 that have exclusively radioactive isotopes, which decay over time into other elements. Iron is the most abundant element (by mass) making up the Earth, while oxygen is the most common element in the crust of the earth. Chemical elements constitute approximately 15% of the matter in the universe: the remainder is dark matter, the composition of it is unknown, but it is not composed of chemical element
The most abundant chemical compound on earth is hydrogen. It is in water, and since water covers 70% of earth's surface, this makes it the most abundant chemical compound on e … arth. Hydrogen is the most common atom in the universe, and oxygen is the thrid … most common, so water has to be the number one compound.
The most common compound on Earth is water. It's formula is H2O, meaning that in one water molecule, there are two hydrogen (H) atoms and one oxygen (O) atom.   Anoth … er common compound is sodium chloride, which most people know as table salt. Hydrogen is the most common atom in the universe, and oxygen is the thrid … most common, so water has to be the number one compound.
This table shows the chemical composition or abundance of chemical compounds in the Earth's crust. As you can see, the most common compound in the Earth's crust is silica. Quartz consists of silica and it is the primary constituent of most sand. Reference: Brown, Geoff C.; Mussett, Alan E. (1981). The Inaccessible Earth (2nd ed.). Taylor & Francis. p. 166. 
Oxygen is the most abundant element on the Earth's surface (or  crust). It comprises 49.5 percent of the total mass (amount) of  the Earth's crust, waters, and atmosphere. …   Silicon is the second most abundant element. 289, 758.)   However water is the most common substance on the surface of the  Earth.   In the atmosphere, Nitrogen is the most common element (78%).
A lot of the stuff in the universe is in elemental form, not in compounds (things made of two or more elements). The 10 most common elements are: (Some lists use our galaxy, the Milky Way, and therefore go Carbon, Neon, Iron, Nitrogen. Substantively, not much below will be affected either way.). 
Its molecule is made up of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. Hydrogen is the most common atom in the universe, and oxygen is the thrid … most common, so water has to be the number one compound.  The second most common atom? Helium-and it forms no compounds