The American Quarter Horse is the most popular breed in the United States today, and the American Quarter Horse Association is the largest breed registry in the world, with almost 3 million American Quarter Horses currently registered. The Thoroughbred race horse Three Bars, alive in the early years of the AQHA, is recognized by the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame as one of the significant foundation sires for the Quarter Horse breed.
Full Definition of QUARTER HORSE. : any of a breed of compact muscular saddle horses developed in the United States and characterized by great endurance and by high speed for short distances. See quarter horse defined for English-language learners. See quarter horse defined for kids
A quarter horse is a specific breed of horse that’s perhaps best known for its speed over short distances and its short, stocky build. This sort of breed is originally American, and the American Quarter Horse Association (AQHA) remains the world’s largest registry, though today the horses are bred all around the world. Characteristics include limited white markings on the face and below the knees, heavy muscling, and a gentle nature.
The principle development of the Quarter Horse was in the southwestern part of the United States in Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, eastern Colorado, and Kansas. Some breed historians have maintained that it is the oldest breed of horses in the United States and that the true beginning of the Quarter Horse was in the Carolinas and Virginia. Nye 1 has suggested that the Chickasaws secured from the Indians were the true beginning of the Quarter Horse.
The Quarter Horse is truly an American Breed. As early as the 1600's the colonists on the eastern seaboard began breeding thoroughbreds from England with horses on the North American continent, such as the Chickasaw horse, which were descendants of the horses brought over by the Spanish Conquistadors. 
What is a Quarter Horse and.......Where are the other 3/4? The Quarter Horse is most definitely a full-sized horse. He is named for his ability to run a quarter of a mile faster than any other horse in the world. The Quarter Horse is also known for his heavily-muscled physique, as well as his even disposition, athletic ability and versatility.
The Quarter Pony is a breed of pony that is similar to the American Quarter Horse. It stands up to 14.2 hands (58 inches, 147 cm) high and was developed from American Quarter Horse foundation bloodstock. 
The American Quarter Horse is well known both as a race horse and for its performance in rodeos, horse shows and as a working ranch horse. The Thoroughbred race horse Three Bars, alive in the early years of the AQHA, is recognized by the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame as one of the significant foundation sires for the Quarter Horse breed.
The American Quarter Horse is an American breed of horse that excels at sprinting short distances. Its name came from its ability to outdistance other horse breeds in races of a quarter mile or less; some individuals have been clocked at speeds up to 55 mph (88.5 km/h). The Thoroughbred race horse Three Bars, alive in the early years of the AQHA, is recognized by the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame as one of the significant foundation sires for the Quarter Horse breed.
The Quarter Horse is truly an American breed of horse. It was created to compete in quarter racing, one of the earliest forms of horse racing in America. The founding stallion was a Thoroughbred named Janus, imported to America in 1756. He was a famous sire of great racers in Colonial America. 