Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In UK, it takes 3 year law degree 1 year LPC 2 year training contract at a solicitors or do a degree in any other discipline 1 year law conversion course 1 year LPC 2 year training contract The training contract needs to be salaried, the Law Society sets the minimum wage. show more Ok I want to be a lawyer when I grow up but I do not know how long it takes to become one. I need to know everything I know nothing about this. What courses should I take in High School next year. I also need to know if I need to go to regular college first before going to law school. And from the time you start..
Best Answer: Basically you need to graduate from college and take the LSAT to get into law school. To graduate from law school is generally 3 years. The first year the courses are set. You get a little flexibility in the 2nd and 3rd years. You would not have to take the bar exam if you never needed to work, but technically you are not an attorney until you pass a bar exam.
Best Answer: Excellent question! The short answer is, either right away or never. About 5 percent of law school graduates will be working at the big firms making the six figures. The rest of them will struggle to pay bills and find meaningful and gainful legal employment. Formally, it's 4 years of college plus 3 years of law school, in that order.
Please... show more When I grow up I want to be a prosecute tort lawyer. I live in Canada. I heard that it could take 7 years. (4 years of university followed by 3 years of law school. ) will it really take 7 years?
You will have to go on to college after school and gain A-Levels to build up the points to get in to university. At university you take an LLB degree (law) which takes 3 years. If you choose to take a non-law degree then it's not the end of the world-you will just have to complete the GDL conversion course adding an extra year. You then go on to take the LPC which is a year long course. Then after this you complete a training contract lasting 2 years. So it will take 6 years in total if you choose to become a solicitor. Peanut · 7 years ago
Training contracts last two years. So, a successful law student would take 5 or 6 years to qualify depending on profession and assuming no time out. The US system is simpler (and longer)- 4 year undergrad degree, 3 year post grad law degree followed by the bar exam for whichever state you intend to practice in. Law in the UK is a three year undergraduate degree. It teaches essentially theoretical law (not civil or criminal proceedure, or lawyer's ethics or practical skills). After the degree, each profession has its own vocational course: the Bar Vocational Course for Barristers and the Legal Practice Course for solicitors.
I'm more of a 'right-brained' type of person so I should become a lawyer.. My sister and cousin went to law school, I can do it too.. Lawyers make a lot of money.. None of these reasons, or any derivative of them, should be part of your decision making process. The short answer is, either right away or never. About 5 percent of law school graduates will be working at the big firms making the six figures. The rest of them will struggle to pay bills and find meaningful and gainful legal employment.
RE: 1. How do you become a lawyer in the UK and how long does it take? 2. How do you become a lawyer in the US? I&#39;m wondering about if you can get a 3 year law degree in the UK and that&#39;s it, while if in the US you have to go to law school after you&#39;re first degree. Law in the UK is a three year undergraduate degree. It teaches essentially theoretical law (not civil or criminal proceedure, or lawyer's ethics or practical skills). After the degree, each profession has its own vocational course: the Bar Vocational Course for Barristers and the Legal Practice Course for solicitors.
Then you can do a graduate-entry law degree, which might be called a Bachelor of Laws or a Juris Doctor, depending which law school it is. They're essentially the same thing. Either way, it'll take 3 years to do a law degree this way. Once you have your law degree you need to do practical legal training. You'll want to check the specific requirements in your state, but basically there are two options.