After you add your domain name to Azure AD, you can change the domain name that should show as the default when you create a new user account. To do this, follow these steps. 1  On the portal page, in the top left corner, click your organization name. 2  Click Edit. 
It gets installed as part of “Active Directory Domain Services” role when you promote a server to the DC role. And It can be found here : %windir%\system32\rendom.exe. For this time Simple Guide, I will show you all how to rename domain name in Windows Server 2012, the process is straightforward.. but as usual.. backup any necessary information @ Server before you proceed & I always advice especially to my students, please do this exercises in LAB Environment (Hyper-V). 14 – Once you see the Domainlist.xm l, right click the file name & choose Edit .. I going to change the DNSname and NetBiosName in this Domainlist.xml file. 15 – Once the Domainlist.xml open, you can see there are few existing Domain name, change this existing domain name to new domain name ..
1 Distributed File System (DFS) root servers: So that you can rename a domain with domain-based DFS Namespace (DFSN) roots, all DFSN root servers must be running Windows 2000 with Service Pack 3 (SP3), Windows Server 2003, or Windows Server 2008 operating systems. You can use Checklist: Satisfying Domain Rename Requirements in Appendix C: Checklists for the Domain Rename Operation to make sure that you have met all the necessary requirements for the domain rename operation.
The Domain Name System (DNS) is the Active Directory locator in Windows 2000. Active Directory clients and client tools use DNS to locate domain controllers for administration and logon. You must have a DNS server installed and configured for Active Directory and the associated client software to function correctly. 
1 Control station: The computer that you use as the control station for the domain rename operation must be a member computer (not a domain controller) running Windows Server 2008 Standard Edition, Windows Server 2008 Enterprise Edition, or Windows Server 2008 Datacenter Edition. You can use Checklist: Satisfying Domain Rename Requirements in Appendix C: Checklists for the Domain Rename Operation to make sure that you have met all the necessary requirements for the domain rename operation.
1 Exchange 2003 Service Pack 1 (SP1) : If your forest contains Exchange 2003 Service Pack 1 (SP1) servers, you can run the Windows Server 2008 domain rename operation, but you must also use the Exchange Domain Rename Fix-up Tool to update Exchange attributes. You can use Checklist: Satisfying Domain Rename Requirements in Appendix C: Checklists for the Domain Rename Operation to make sure that you have met all the necessary requirements for the domain rename operation.
Through DNS an Active Directory domain hierarchy can also be defined on an Internet-wide basis, or the domain hierarchy can be separate and private. When you refer to computer resources in this type of domain, you use the fully qualified host name, such as zeta.microsoft.com. Each Active Directory domain has a DNS domain name, such as microsoft.com. When one or more domains share the same directory data, they are referred to as a forest. The domain names within this forest can be discontiguous or contiguous in the DNS naming hierarchy.
You can use the Windows Server 2008 domain rename process to change the names of your Active Directory domains, and you can also use it to change the structure of the domain trees in your Active Directory forest. You can use Checklist: Satisfying Domain Rename Requirements in Appendix C: Checklists for the Domain Rename Operation to make sure that you have met all the necessary requirements for the domain rename operation.
You can use the Windows Server 2008 domain rename process to change the names of your Active Directory domains, and you can also use it to change the structure of the domain trees in your Active Directory forest. This process involves updating the Domain Name System (DNS) and trust infrastructures as well as Group Policy and Service Principal Names (SPNs). The ability to rename domains gives you the flexibility to make important name changes and forest structural changes as the needs of your organization change. Using domain rename, you can change the name of a domain, but you can also change the structure of the domain hierarchy