Indonesia Description. Indonesia, with over 18,000 counted islands, is by far the largest and most varied archipelago on Earth. It spans almost 2 million square kilometers between Asia and Australia. With a population of 248,216,193, Indonesia shares land borders with 3 countries: Malaysia, Timor-Leste and Papa New Guinea
Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of i … slands often called Nusantara in Indonesian. 3 people found this useful. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of islands often called Nusantara in Indonesian.
The nation's capital city is Jakarta. The country shares land borders with Papua New Guinea, East Timor, and Malaysia. Other neighbouring countries include Singapore, the Philippines, Australia, Palau, and the Indian territory of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Indonesia is a founding member of ASEAN and a member of the G-20 major economies
Confidence votes 1.8K. No. There are only seven continents and they are North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Antarctica, and Australia. Indonesia is NOT a continent but part of Asia. Indonesia is not physically part of any continent. It is an archipelago (a group of islands) between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Geographically, it is included in … the region of southeastern Asia.
Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of i … slands often called Nusantara in Indonesian. + 33 others found this useful. Indonesia is not physically part of any continent. It is an archipelago (a group of islands) between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Geographically, it is included in … the region of southeastern Asia.
A continent is one of several very large landmasses on Earth. They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents. These are (from largest in size to smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia. In geology, areas of continental crust include regions covered with water.
No. There are only seven continents and they are North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Antarctica, and Australia. Indonesia is NOT a continent but part of Asia. 16 people found this useful. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of islands often called Nusantara in Indonesian.