Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Braylen. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Braylen, spread the love and share this with your friends. The meaning of Braylen is “From the name Braydon and Lyn”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Braylen is a 21st century name invention compliments of the United States. It was most likely the result of combining the trendy Celtic name Braden with the “-len” suffix (similar to Jayden turning into Jaylen). Since Braylen is basically a made-up name there is no known etymology or meaning behind it. Braelyn is the female version of this name also newly coined.
Braylen is an uncommonly occurring first name for men. Braylen is an unusual surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Braylen for boys. Braylen entered the list in 2005 and reached its apex rank of #315 in the U.S. in 2011, and is at #408 presently. (2014 Birth Statistics). Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Braylen and affiliated names.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Braylen for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Braylen is a boy name. The name Braylen is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. The meaning of Braylen is “From the name Braydon and Lyn”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Braylen is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Bray-len. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 408 in baby name popularity for boys with 752 occurrences. It ranked 3825 in popular baby names for girls with 39 occurrences. View the Braylen Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Braylen has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Braylen to other names. Variants of the name Braylen include Braylin, Braylon.
Braylen Name Meaning. The meaning of Braylen is “From the name Braydon and Lyn”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
More info about the name Braylen. Braylen is a variant of Brayden, or Braden. Braden is a locational name that was used to denote where a person came from. It is derived from the two Old English words, “brade” which means broad and “denu” which means a valley. 
Braylon is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Bray-lon. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 378 in baby name popularity for boys with 822 occurrences. It ranked 11028 in popular baby names for girls with 9 occurrences. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own.
[ 2 syll. bray-len, br-ayl-en ] The baby boy name Braylen is pronounced as BR EY-LehN †. Braylen is of Celtic and English origin, and it is predominantly used in the English language. The first name is a modern invention under the influence of Brayden. In addition, Braylen is a variant of Braden (English and Irish) in the English language. Variants of Braylen include Bralen (English) and Braylon (English). Braylen is a fairly popular baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name's popularity has been growing since the 2000s; before that, it was of only irregular use. Its usage peaked modestly in 2011 with 0.050% of baby boys being given the name Braylen. It ranked at #315 th
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Braylen and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Braylen and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Braylen is “From the name Braydon and Lyn”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.