The average salary for insurance agent jobs is $25,000. Average insurance agent salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term insurance agent anywhere in the job listing.
Average Insurance Agent Pay vs. Other Best Jobs. Insurance agents made an average salary of $63,610 in 2013, which is more than a sales representative ($54,410) and much more than a customer service representative ($30,870). Salary Outlook. According to the BLS, the median annual salary for insurance agents was $48,210 in 2013. The best-paid 10 percent made more than $117,830, while the lowest-paid 10 percent made less than $26,030. The highest salaries were paid by securities and commodities firms, outpatient care centers and local governments
(United States). Insurance Agent Assistants in the United States are largely women. The group as a whole has a nationwide average of $12.89 per hour for pay. Career length and the company each impact pay for this group, with the former having the largest influence. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For Insurance Agent Assistants, experience does not seem to be a major factor in determining pay. Relatively untried employees who have fewer than five years of experience earn around $27K on average. People who have worked for five to 10 years can expect a higher median salary of $29K. Insurance Agent Assistants bring in $32K after working for 10 to 20 years
Insurance Agent Assistant Salary. Insurance Agent Assistant average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Insurance Agent Assistant salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Insurance Agent Assistant salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Insurance Agent Assistant salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Broker Assistant Salary. (United States). An average Broker Assistant in the United States can expect to take home roughly $43K annually. Residence is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by tenure. Women make up the vast majority of Broker Assistants (81 percent) who answered the questionnaire. Job satisfaction is high and work is enjoyable for most Broker Assistants.
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Insurance category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Insurance jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. Related job categories: Accounting, Human Resources. Browse Insurance jobs by salary range: , $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or. Search by: Keyword Category. Search. Jobs by Salary Ranges: Click a salary category to find jobs in your target salary range.