In the United States, viral hepatitis is most commonly caused by hepatitis A virus (HAV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV). These 3 viruses can all result in acute disease with symptoms of nausea, abdominal pain, fatigue, malaise, and jaundice. Additionally, HBV and HCV can lead to chronic infection. Other hepatotropic viruses known to cause hepatitis include hepatitis D virus (HDV) and hepatitis E virus (HEV). However, the term hepatotropic is itself a misnomer. Infections with hepatitis viruses, especially HBV and HBC, have been associated with a wide variety of extrahepatic manifestations.
The most common hepatitis viruses are types A, B, and C. Reference to the hepatitis viruses often occurs in an abbreviated form (for example, HAV, HBV, HCV represent hepatitis viruses A, B, and C, respectively.) The focus of this article is on these viruses that cause the majority of human viral hepatitis. 1 Viruses that primarily attack the liver are called hepatitis viruses. 2  There are several types of hepatitis viruses including types A, B, C, D, E, and possibly G. Types A, B, and C are the most common. 3  All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 4  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic
Primary Cause of Viral Hepatitis. The primary cause of Viral Hepatitis is the result: 1  of transmission of an infectious agent by another person by one or more of the following: saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc. List of causes of Viral Hepatitis. Following is a list of causes or underlying conditions (see also Misdiagnosis of underlying causes of Viral Hepatitis) that could possibly cause Viral Hepatitis includes: 1  Multiple sexual partners. 2  Intravenous drug users. 3  Haemophiliacs who receive blood clotting factors.
Hepatitis means. of the liver. This condition is often caused by a virus. In the United States, the most common causes of viral hepatitis are hepatitis A virus (HAV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV).
Viral hepatitis is the most common cause of hepatitis worldwide. Other common causes of non-viral hepatitis include toxic and drug-induced, alcoholic, autoimmune, fatty liver, and metabolic disorders. Less commonly some bacterial, parasitic, fungal, mycobacterial and protozoal infections can cause hepatitis. In viral hepatitis, the presence of the virus in the liver cells causes the immune system to attack the liver, resulting in inflammation and impaired function. In autoimmune hepatitis, the immune system attacks the liver due to the autoimmune disease.
It may present in acute (recent infection, relatively rapid onset) or chronic forms. The most common causes of viral hepatitis are the five unrelated hepatotropic viruses Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Hepatitis D, and Hepatitis E. 
Hepatitis refers to an inflammatory condition of the liver. It’s commonly caused by a viral infection, but there are other possible causes of hepatitis. These include autoimmune hepatitis and hepatitis that occurs as a secondary result of medications, drugs, toxins, and alcohol. This is also called delta hepatitis. Hepatitis D is a serious liver disease caused by the hepatitis D virus (HDV). HDV is contracted through puncture wounds or contact with infected blood. Hepatitis D is a rare form of hepatitis that occurs in conjunction with hepatitis B infection.
1 Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 2  Symptoms of acute viral hepatitis include fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, light-colored stools, fever, and jaundice; however, acute viral hepatitis may occur with minimal symptoms that go unrecognized. 1 Viruses that primarily attack the liver are called hepatitis viruses. 2  There are several types of hepatitis viruses including types A, B, C, D, E, and possibly G. Types A, B, and C are the most common. 3  All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 4 
Viral hepatitis is a general name for several forms of hepatitis that are caused by a virus. Viral hepatitis is the most common type of hepatitis, a group of serious diseases that cause inflammation of the liver and liver damage. Viral hepatitis is often called infectious hepatitis, and the viruses that cause it are contagious and can be passed from person to person. Viral hepatitis includes hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, hepatitis D, and hepatitis E. Each of these types of viral hepatitis are caused by the hepatitis virus of the same name, such as the hepatitis A virus. The most common forms of viral hepatitis in the U.S. are hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C.
Worldwide, viral hepatitis is the most common cause of liver inflammation. Other causes include autoimmune diseases and ingestion of toxic substances (notably alcohol), certain medications (such as paracetamol), some industrial organic solvents, and plants. In viral hepatitis, the presence of the virus in the liver cells causes the immune system to attack the liver, resulting in inflammation and impaired function. In autoimmune hepatitis, the immune system attacks the liver due to the autoimmune disease.