Crab is a delicacy for all meat lovers for the sweetness and softness of meat. There is however a distinct variation in the meat of a male crab and female crab. While some species of crabs are eaten as a whole, few species are consumed for their claws and legs. Crab claws have a sweet and dense meat white like lobster meat. Male crabs are usually thought to have larger claws and more white meat; while the female crabs sometimes have coral. Its liver is considered a delicacy.
Stone crabs have very little body meat; their only product form is the enormous claw with adjoining knuckles. Fishermen catch the crab, remove the claw then return the crab to the ocean so it can grow another. Most stone crab is sold fresh. Stone crabs are sold in 5 size categories:
Claw-the meat is latte-colored and some say the most flavorful, nice for stuffed eggplants and stuffed crabs. Crab Fingers (Cocktail Claws) - the pincers themselves, broken to expost the meat and served as appetizers. Backfin-white body meat consisting of lump and flakes.
Brown crab (Cancer pagurus), blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus), blue swimming crabs (Portunus pelagicus), red swimming crabs (Portunus haanii) are among the most commercially available species of crabmeat globally.
In Western Europe crab meat is derived primarily from the species Cancer pagurus. Cancer pagurus is a large crab noted for the sweet, delicate flavour of its meat. It is also known as the Brown Crab, the Common Crab or the Edible Crab.
The jumbo lump grade crab meat comes from larger crabs, is the meat from the two large muscles connected to the swimming legs. Contrary to smaller portions of crab meat, it can be used whole. It has a brilliant white color.
Due to their enormous leg size, Alaskan king crab yields some very large pieces of meat. And, because the leg meat of Alaskan king crab is the most sought after, you can’t find a species of crab which can compare.
Description: The largest of the commercially harvested crabs, king crabs are characterized by spiny shells and long, spidery legs. Most crabs have 10 appendages, but king crabs have six walking legs, one large “killer” claw and one small “feeder” claw.