Our own galaxy, the Milky Way, is classified as a barred spiral galaxy. Edwin Hubble classified spiral galaxies of this type as SB (spiral, barred) in his Hubble sequence, and arranged them into sub-categories based on how open the arms of the spiral are. A barred spiral galaxy is a spiral galaxy with a central bar-shaped structure composed of stars. Bars are found in approximately two-thirds of all spiral galaxies. Bars generally affect both the motions of stars and interstellar gas within spiral galaxies and can affect spiral arms as well
Barred spiral galaxies are apparently predominant, with surveys showing that up to two-thirds of all spiral galaxies contain a bar. The current hypothesis is that the bar structure acts as a type of stellar nursery, fueling star birth at their centers. A barred spiral galaxy is a spiral galaxy with a central bar-shaped structure composed of stars. Bars are found in approximately two-thirds of all spiral galaxies. Bars generally affect both the motions of stars and interstellar gas within spiral galaxies and can affect spiral arms as well
Barred spiral galaxies are spiral galaxies that have a bar-shaped collection of stars running across the center of the galaxy. Elliptical galaxies do not have a disk or arms. Instead, they are characterized by a smooth, oval-shaped appearance. Ellipticals contain old stars, and possess little gas or dust. 
The Milky Way is a barred spiral galaxy, about 100,000 light-years across. If you could look down on it from the top, you would see a central bulge surrounded by four large spiral arms that wrap around it. Spiral galaxies make up about two-third of the galaxies in the universe. The Milky Way galaxy is most significant to humans because it is home sweet home. But when it comes down to it, our galaxy is a typical barred spiral, much like billions of other galaxies in the universe. Let's take a look at the Milky Way. Location, location, location. A glance up at the night sky reveals a broad swath of light
Credit: NASA. We live in a galaxy that is called the Milky Way. It's called a barred spiral galaxy, which means that it has a spiral shape with a bar of stars across its middle. The galaxy is rather huge—at least 100,000 light-years in diameter, making it the second-biggest in our Local Group of galaxies. 
First, let’s back up a bit and talk a bit about what the Milky Way actually is. Astronomers believe it is a barred spiral galaxy — a galaxy with a spiral shape that has a line of stars across its middle, as you can see in the picture above. If you were to fly across the galaxy at the speed of light, it would take you an astounding 100,000 years. 
The arms of a spiral galaxy have lots of gas and dust, and they are often areas where new stars are constantly forming. The bulge of a spiral galaxy is composed primarily of old, red stars. Very little star formation goes on in the bulge. The table below shows the abbreviations that are used for spiral galaxy types. If you instead see the galaxy from the side, it is called an edge-on spiral.. You can recognize edge-on spiral galaxies because you can see their bright central bulges. Face-on and edge-on spiral galaxies aren't really any different; they only look different because of the angle from which you see them.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Cosmospup. Confidence votes 30.0K. Technically because it is the type of galaxy, according to the Hubble classification scheme, the Milky Way is. SBc barred spiral. The galaxy is spiral in shape with a central bar shaped structure. See related link for a pictorial. 