These daphnia are the largest daphnia we sell and are an excellent feed adult fish up to 2 inches! The 200ml culture comes with 100+ organisms and the 2000ml culture comes with 1000+. Add a feed kit to keep your culture going! 
We conducted laboratory experiments to investigate the ability of an aquatic filter-feeding invertebrate, Daphnia magna, to accumulate virus from AIV-dosed water under the hypothesis that they represent a potential vector of AIV to waterfowl hosts. Daphnia magna culture. We began culturing approximately 500 daphnids of the species Daphnia magna (DaphniaForSale.com, Merced, CA) 3 months prior to conducting the experiments in aerated, 40-liter glass aquaria filled with groundwater kept at 20°C under 24 h of light.
The use of Daphnia magna as an experimental animal for such purposes is advantageous in many respects. Daphnids are small, reaching a size of five mm, so that a great many can be reared in a small space. They have a relatively short life span, which reaches a maximum of about two months when they are reared at 20°C. Daphnids are easy to culture, requiring only water containing bacteria or their equivalent for food. D. magna is specified to be used in the OECD Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals, Tests No. 202  Daphnia sp., Acute Immobilisation Test, and Test No. 211  Daphnia magna Reproduction Test.
Daphnia magna is a species of Daphnia (a cladoceran freshwater water flea) which is native to northern and western North America, Eurasia and some regions of Africa. D. magna is specified to be used in the OECD Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals, Tests No. 202  Daphnia sp., Acute Immobilisation Test, and Test No. 211  Daphnia magna Reproduction Test.
Daphnia, a genus of small planktonic crustaceans, are 1–5 millimetres (0.04–0.20 in) in length. Daphnia are members of the order Cladocera, and are one of the several small aquatic crustaceans commonly called water fleas because their saltatory [1] swimming style resembles the movements of fleas. Daphnia live in various aquatic environments ranging from acidic swamps to freshwater lakes, ponds, streams and rivers. Play media. The beating heart of Daphnia under the microscope. The body of Daphnia is usually 1–5 millimetres (0.04–0.20 in) long, and is divided into segments, although this division is not visible. The head is fused, and is generally bent down towards the body with a visible notch separating the two.
1. Percentage reduction in BOD and coliforms using Daphnia and Paramecium. The ability of P. caudatum and D. magna to improve the water quality can be attributed to their filter feeding habit using cilia, whose action sweeps down bacteria, detritus and algae down the peristomial groove.
Vertebrates are animals with a backbone (examples: humans, snakes,  birds). They give birth alive and sometimes hatched    Invertebrates are animals without a backbone … (examples: snails,  starfish, worms). Invertebrates have no bones at all that they can  move by using tentacles. Vertebrates: animals with backbone are called vertebrates. Vertebrate means to have a spinal column or backbone. All mammals are vertebrates. All corals, insects, worms, jellyfish, snails and starfish are inverte … brates because they have no backbone.
The two most readily available species of Daphnia are D. pulex (small and most common) and D. magna (large). They are often associated with a related genus in the order Cladocera: Moina, which is in the Moinidae family instead of Daphniidae and is much smaller than D. pulex (approximately half the maximum length). Play media. The beating heart of Daphnia under the microscope. The body of Daphnia is usually 1–5 millimetres (0.04–0.20 in) long, and is divided into segments, although this division is not visible. The head is fused, and is generally bent down towards the body with a visible notch separating the two.
7 “We wanted to test whether Daphnia could be used as an invertebrate model for obesogenic effects,” says senior author Carlos Barata, an ecotoxicologist at the Institute of Environmental Assessment and Water Research in Barcelona, Spain. 
Daphnia, also called water fleas are found in the order Cladocera and are sometimes called Cladocerans. Daphnia are crustaceans and related to lobsters, crabs and shrimp. They are invertebrates with a hard outer shell and are different from another type of water flea the brine shrimp (Artemia). They swim freely about and are from 1/2 to 3mm long. 