According to a Financial Times interview with Outbrain’s managing director in Europe, the network shares “about half” of any revenue generated with partner sites. The cost per click paid is said to range from $0.15 to $0.30 while click rates are in the neighborhood of 0.50% to 0.75%. Using those (big) ranges, we can come up with some revenue estimates: 1  $0.15 CPC x 0.50% CTR x 50% revenue share = $0.37 per thousand pageviews to publishers. Performance data on Taboola is much harder to dig up; the company doesn’t share the revenue splits it offers, and details on performance are sparse. But we have a few data points 1  : Serves up 1.5 billion recommendations daily, or about 45 billion monthly. 2  Drives 24 million unique visits for advertis
NDTV Group's Digital Arm Signs Deal Worth INR 900 Million-INR 1,000 Million with Taboola. Sep 30 15. NDTV Convergence the digital arm of NDTV group has signed one of the large deals in new media space with Taboola to power content recommendations across their entire network of desktop and mobile sites. NDTV Convergence has entered into three-year partnership with Taboola to power content recommendations to its large audience of over 60 million unique visitors. Taboola will serve as the exclusive, multi-platform content discovery partner across all its properties.
An example of a Taboola widget embedded in a publisher's website. As the reader consumes the content on any of these sites, the Taboola widget inserts a row of article previews recommending additional sponsored content it believes the reader will find interesting. Taboola offers an excellent value and opportunity for clients to reach out to their target markets, engage them at exceptionally low costs, and nurture readership bases and potential leads with targeted re-engagement. When used properly, Taboola is currently one of the most powerful platforms for content distribution.
That would translate into revenue per click (unique visits sent) of about $0.35, which is roughly in line with Outbrain (perhaps a bit higher). It also implies a click rate of about 0.05% per recommendation, which translates into 0.20% to 0.30% per page (since the Taboola widget often includes multiple recommendations). Performance data on Taboola is much harder to dig up; the company doesn’t share the revenue splits it offers, and details on performance are sparse. But we have a few data points 1  : Serves up 1.5 billion recommendations daily, or about 45 billion monthly. 2  Drives 24 million unique visits for advertisers
This case study demonstrates how the Taboola content marketing platform can be used to increase the efficiency and ROI of content distribution. Taboola is currently used on over 4,000 high-traffic websites. Taboola offers an excellent value and opportunity for clients to reach out to their target markets, engage them at exceptionally low costs, and nurture readership bases and potential leads with targeted re-engagement. When used properly, Taboola is currently one of the most powerful platforms for
Background. Taboola is a widget that is embedded on the websites of major publishers like Bloomberg, The Atlantic, Business Insider, CNN Money, NFL.com, Washington Times, Fiscal Times, Venture Beat, and Entrepreneur. Taboola offers an excellent value and opportunity for clients to reach out to their target markets, engage them at exceptionally low costs, and nurture readership bases and potential leads with targeted re-engagement. When used properly, Taboola is currently one of the most powerful platforms for content distribution.
Outbrain. CPC: $0.25–$0.35. Pros: Currently, Outbrain is probably the most well-known distribution service among its competitors Taboola, nRelate, and Disqus. The company has made an effort to care about quality and the invasiveness of their sponsored posts. Cons: Due to the hyper-targeting advantages, the cost per click is more expensive than with services like Outbrain and Taboola. And as with other social traffic, even if you benefit from one popular piece of content, there is no correlation to future success. Social shares drive a lot of one-off traffic
CPC: $0.25–$0.30. Pros: nRelate can be slightly cheaper than Outbrain or Taboola. The services are fairly similar, but their widget offers a lot of customizable options for thumbnail and text presentation. Cons: Due to the hyper-targeting advantages, the cost per click is more expensive than with services like Outbrain and Taboola. And as with other social traffic, even if you benefit from one popular piece of content, there is no correlation to future success. Social shares drive a lot of one-off traffic