DNA has a double helix structure, which appears like a twisted ladder. The sides of the DNA ladder are composed of alternating deoxyribose sugar molecules and phosphate groups. The rungs of the ladder are nucleotide base pairs, which are the genetic information of the DNA. Each nucleotide can be adenine, thymine, cytosine or guanine. Genetic information is read in sequence of three bases called triplets. Each triplet codes for a specific amino acid during protein synthesis. When proteins are needed, the corresponding genes are transcribed from DNA into an RNA molecule.
So basically, the DNA of a cell is the 'blueprint of life' because it holds all the plans and acts as the master computer to tell what every cell, tissue, organ and system to do. 10 people found this useful. We also know that a lot of DNA apparently is nonsense and codes for nothing. These regions of DNA that do not code for proteins are called introns, or sometimes junk DNA. The sections of DNA that do actually code from proteins are called exons.
The DNA is like a blueprint that tells the organism's Cells what to do-just like giving orders. The Blueprint of Life: Every cell in your body has the same blueprint or … the same DNA. These regions of DNA that do not code for proteins are called introns, or sometimes junk DNA. The sections of DNA that do actually code from proteins are called exons. Because Dna contains all of the instructions for each and every function of Cells that make up all living organisms.
It is called the Blueprint of life because it is just like a blueprint, it maps out our genes: whether we have blue eyes, brown hair, long fingers. The genetic code determin … es where everything will be placed. It holds the information for humans or other organism to produce their cells and proteins. We also know that a lot of DNA apparently is nonsense and codes for nothing. These regions of DNA that do not code for proteins are called introns, or sometimes junk DNA. The sections of DNA that do actually code from proteins are called exons.
So the sequence from the DNA gets transferred to mRNA, which then contains the information used to build proteins. There are very complex signals that trigger the beginning and end of the building processes. Everything from the way you feel to the way you digest your food is controlled by the proteins within your cells. So whatever organizes the proteins in a living being is providing the blueprint for building that organism. DNA does just that: it provides the information for building all the proteins within every living thing on Earth.
The DNA is like a blueprint that tells the organism's Cells what to do-just like giving orders. The Blueprint of Life: Every cell in your body has the same blueprint or the same DNA. Like the blueprints of a house tell the builders how to construct a house, the DNA blueprint tells the cell how to build the organism. We also know that a lot of DNA apparently is nonsense and codes for nothing. These regions of DNA that do not code for proteins are called introns, or sometimes junk DNA. The sections of DNA that do actually code from proteins are called exons.
So basically, the DNA of a cell is the 'blueprint of life' because it holds all the plans and acts as the master computer to tell what every cell, tissue, organ and system to do. 10 people found this useful. These regions of DNA that do not code for proteins are called introns, or sometimes junk DNA. The sections of DNA that do actually code from proteins are called exons. Because Dna contains all of the instructions for each and every function of Cells that make up all living organisms.
It is called the Blueprint of life because it is just like a blueprint, it maps out our genes: whether we have blue eyes, brown hair, long fingers. The genetic code determin … es where everything will be placed. It holds the information for humans or other organism to produce their cells and proteins. These regions of DNA that do not code for proteins are called introns, or sometimes junk DNA. The sections of DNA that do actually code from proteins are called exons. Because Dna contains all of the instructions for each and every function of Cells that make up all living organisms.
RNA is very similar to DNA except in a couple respects. First, it is a single-stranded molecule. Second, it uses uracil, U, instead of thymine, T. So RNA polymerase builds a strand of RNA that complements the DNA. A DNA sequence of CGGATACTA would get transcribed into an RNA strand of GCCUAUGAU. When making proteins, the RNA built in this way is called messenger RNA, or mRNA. So whatever organizes the proteins in a living being is providing the blueprint for building that organism. DNA does just that: it provides the information for building all the proteins within every living thing on Earth.