Hibiscus Propagation from Hibiscus Cuttings. Both hardy and tropical hibiscus are propagated from cuttings. Hibiscus cuttings are normally the preferred way of propagating hibiscus because a cutting will grow to be an exact copy of the parent plant. When using hibiscus cuttings to propagate hibiscus, start by taking the cutting. The cutting should be taken from new growth or softwood. Propagating Hibiscus from Hibiscus Seeds. While both tropical hibiscus and hardy hibiscus can be propagated from hibiscus seeds, typically only hardy hibiscus is propagated this way. This is because the seeds will not grow true to the parent plant and will look different from the parent.
Related Content. Hibiscus (Hibiscus sabdariffa), also called roselle, is a short-day plant usually grown in tropical and subtropical areas. In the United States, it has been grown commercially in Florida, California, Louisiana and Kentucky. 
When you care for a hibiscus, you should remember that hibiscus flower best in temperatures between 60-90 F. (16-32 C.)and cannot tolerate temps below 32 F. (0 C.). In the summer, your hibiscus plant can go outside, but once the weather starts to get near freezing, it’s time for you to bring your hibiscus indoors. A growing hibiscus plant needs lots of nutrients in order to bloom well. In the summer, use a high potassium fertilizer. You can either use a diluted liquid fertilizer one a week, a slow release fertilizer once a month or you can add a high potassium compost to the soil.
All species of perennial hibiscus grow well from fresh seed, which can be sown in autumn or late winter within U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 7 to 10. The seeds sprout in approximately one month and the resulting seedlings will bloom during their first year in the garden. 
To grow hibiscus seeds, start by nicking or sanding the seeds. This helps to get moisture into the seeds and improves germination. The hibiscus seeds can be nicked with a utility knife or sanded with a bit of fine grain plain sandpaper. After you have done this, soak the seeds in water overnight. Propagating Hibiscus from Hibiscus Seeds. While both tropical hibiscus and hardy hibiscus can be propagated from hibiscus seeds, typically only hardy hibiscus is propagated this way. This is because the seeds will not grow true to the parent plant and will look different from the parent.
Tropical hibiscus need a lot of light to bloom and perform well. Full sun from dawn to dusk may be too much during summer, but during short winter days, they need all the light they can get. Even with a lot of light and ideal temperature and humidity during the winter, they will likely bloom and grow less. 
Hibiscus flowers are one of the most spectacular blossoms a container gardener can grow. The blooms are large, colorful and incredibly graceful. The foliage of the hibiscus plant is also beautiful-the dark green, glossy leaves, provide a wonderful contrast with the extravagant blooms. 
If you have very sandy soil either grow your hibiscus in pots, or be prepared to water often and use timed-release fertilizers on the surface of the soil. You can also try amending the sandy soil with good compost and other organic ingredients so that it will hold more water and fertilizer. Before you plant your hibiscus, you will need to dig a very large hole that you fill with a high quality planting mix, allowing plenty of extra room for the hibiscus to grow roots into. Super Sandy Soil: If your soil is very sandy, you will probably have problems growing hibiscus in it.
An evergreen shrub with abundant flowers, hibiscus is most often planted as a shrub in outdoor landscaping. It is possible to grow hibiscus in containers indoors if you have a spot that receives full sunlight for at least six to eight hours a day. 