Abrianna Name Meaning. The meaning of Abrianna is “Mother of Many Nations”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. 
Self-awareness test of the baby. Performing the self-awareness test of the baby is quite simple. If you put a red dot on the baby’s forehead and show him the mirror, notice what he does. If they rub the dot, they are aware, else not. More About Italian Name: Abrianna. The name Abrianna comes from the Gaelic origin. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Abrianna is: Noble, virtuous, strong. In Gaelic it means Noble, Strong, Virtuous,Abrianna can also be a variant of Aubrianna.
Italian Meaning: The name Abrianna is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Abrianna is: Feminine of Abraham. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing. 
What does Brianna mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Brianna is of Irish origin. The meaning of Brianna is strong, honorable. It is also of Celtic and origin, where its meaning is . 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Abrianna in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Abrianna in Nautical Flags page. 
Abrianna /abri-an-na/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of the name Abrianna is father of many. Abrianna is an alternate spelling of Abriana (Hebrew): Italian feminine variation of Abraham. Compare last name Auburn. Kreatif forms: Abrianau, Abriannaau, Auabrianna. 
Brianna /bri-an-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced bree-AHH-ah. It is of Irish, Gaelic and Celtic origin, and the meaning of Brianna is high, noble, exalted. May also possibly mean strong. A contemporary feminine form of Brian, found occasionally in England since the 16th century. See also Brionna. Brianna is a very popular first name for females (#738 out of 4276, Top 17%) but a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Brianna for girls. Brianna was first listed in 1970-1979 and reached its top position of #14 in the U.S. in the year 1999, and is presently at #85
Tweet. Abrianna is of Hebrew, Celtic origin and it is used mainly in the English language. The name is of disputed origin; it could be a feminine form of Abraham, or else it could be a combination name. Variant forms inherit the origin and thus the meaning of Abrianna. 