A modem (stands for modulator-demodulator) is a device that allows a computer to use a telephone line to communicate with other computers. The fastest modem is 56kbs (56,000 b … ytes per second). This is a limitation of the phone lines, not of hardware. 1 A modem is the device responsible for connecting your computer or router to the incoming signal 2  …. Connecting Your Router to a Westell Modem Connecting a router to a Westell Modem is a simple and straightforward task, provided you know what you're looking for in particular. 3  Every model has both text and pictograph….
A modem (stands for modulator-demodulator) is a device that allows a computer to use a telephone line to communicate with other computers. The fastest modem is 56kbs (56,000 b … ytes per second). This is a limitation of the phone lines, not of hardware. It comes from the term MOdulator DEModulator. A modem converts a digital signal from a computer into an analog signal, so that can be transferred down a telephone line and then at the other end it is converted back into a digital signal so that it can be sent into the receiving computer. These two processes are known as modulation and demodulation
The word  modem  stands for  mo dulator-dem odulator. A modem's purpose is to convert digital information to analog signals (modulation), and to convert analog signals back into useful digital information (demodulation). 
The word modem is short for modulator-demodulator which is essentially what it does. A computer moves data around on parallel wires by applying one or another voltage to e … ach wire (representing 0's and 1's) and the voltage is read at the other end of the wires. 1 A modem is the device responsible for connecting your computer or router to the incoming signal 2  …. Connecting Your Router to a Westell Modem Connecting a router to a Westell Modem is a simple and straightforward task, provided you know what you're looking for in particular. 3  Every model has both text and pictograph….
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The word modem is short for modulator-demodulator which is essentially what it does. A computer moves data around on parallel wires by applying one or another voltage to each wire (representing 0's and 1's) and the voltage is read at the other end of the wires. This is digital communication. A modem is a device that brings the Internet to your home. If you look at the Big Internet cloud out there, your computer doesn't know how to talk with it as is. The modem translates the Internet messages, which your computer doesn't understand, into messages it will understand.
(mō´dem) (n.) Short for modulator-demodulator. A modem is a device or program that enables a computer to transmit data over, for example, telephone or cable lines. Computer information is stored digitally, whereas information transmitted over telephone lines is transmitted in the form of analog waves. A modem converts between these two forms. 
The word modem is short for modulator-demodulator which is essentially what it does. A computer moves data around on parallel wires by applying one or another voltage to e … ach wire (representing 0's and 1's) and the voltage is read at the other end of the wires. It comes from the term MOdulator DEModulator. A modem converts a digital signal from a computer into an analog signal, so that can be transferred down a telephone line and then at the other end it is converted back into a digital signal so that it can be sent into the receiving computer. These two processes are known as modulation and demodulation
Modem (derived from modulator-demodulator) is a device that makes it possible for a computer to transmit data over regular telephone lines or cable. A modem converts a computer's digital data into analog form to ensure it can be transmitted over telephone lines or cable. The receiving modem at the other end reconverts the data in analog form to digital form.