A dorsal exostosis (a bone spur on the top of the foot) can put pressure on these nerves as well. Besides the simple alteration of shoes, padding and some physical therapy, little else can be done with this type of neuritis causing condition, as the cause of the condition is within the bone structure. The medial dorsal cutaneous nerve innervates the top inside part of the foot and the intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve innervates the top outside part of the foot. Any type of pressure on these nerves can, over time, cause discomfort. There are several things that can cause pressure to the dorsal cutaneous nerves
Sections. A dorsal nerve root – also known as a posterior nerve root – is a main bundle of nerve fibers that branches off the spinal cord and goes to other areas of the body. Dorsal nerve roots are responsible for carrying signals of sensation (such as feelings of pain and temperature) from the body to the brain. 
Below are images of the dorsal and plantar surfaces of the foot. They are also dorsal and plantar views, or aspects, of the foot. The plantar surface is commonly referred to as the sole. Plantar warts and plantar fasciitis are common ailments. R-Ray of foot showing shrapnel. 
Likewise for the foot the terms refer to the plantar (sole) and dorsal (top). This makes some sense in mechanical terms since when you are walking on all fours, the back the hand and top of the foot are folded and point dorsally. I wonder how these surfaces are oriented in view of ontogeny. I didn't say that dorsal was down. Dorsal means back, spinal or posterior side and ventral means front, abdominal or anterior side. In that sense, the top of the foot faces front and the sole of the foot faces backwards when the foot is extended.
Dorsalis pedis artery. In human anatomy, the dorsalis pedis artery (dorsal artery of foot), is a blood vessel of the lower limb that carries oxygenated blood to the dorsal surface of the foot. It arises at the anterior aspect of the ankle joint and is a continuation of the anterior tibial artery. Open main menu. In human anatomy, the dorsalis pedis artery (dorsal artery of foot), is a blood vessel of the lower limb that carries oxygenated blood to the dorsal surface of the foot.
JF-The top of both the foot and the hand is the dorsal surface. The opposite side of the hand is the palmar surface; the opposite side of the foot is called the plantar surface. Don't know why you thought that dorsal would be down. The dorsal fin of the shark is on his back. I didn't say that dorsal was down. Dorsal means back, spinal or posterior side and ventral means front, abdominal or anterior side. In that sense, the top of the foot faces front and the sole of the foot faces backwards when the foot is extended.
In human anatomy, the dorsal interossei of the foot are four muscles situated between the metatarsal bones. Because there is a pair of dorsal interossei muscles attached on both sides of the second toe, contraction of these muscles results in no movement (i.e. the midline of the hand is in the third finger, but the midline of the foot is in the second toe).