Ultimo. Ultimo is an inner-city suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Ultimo is located 2 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of the City of Sydney. Broadway is a locality around the road of the same name, which is located on the borders of Ultimo, Chippendale and Glebe.
Ultimo is a Glasgow-headquartered designer lingerie brand, majority owned by Sri Lanka-based lingerie group MAS Holdings. It was founded in 1996 by Michelle Mone (now Baroness Mone) , via her company MJM International Ltd., with her ex-husband Michael. In 2013, after their marriage collapsed, Ultimo was transferred to joint venture company Ultimo Brands International Ltd, an equal partnership between Michelle Mone and MAS Holdings. In November 2014, Mone sold the majority of her stake to
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Ultimo is fine but there are a few major roads there. You really don't want to be on one of those with traffic noise all day and night. The University of Technology is in Ultimo as is Sydney TAFE and the ABC centre. There are plenty of students and interesting pubs and shops. Paddys Market, Haymarket and Chinatown are close by and you can walk to Central Station in a few minutes. What is Ultimo in Sydney, Australia like? I am moving to Sydney in Jan and am looking at apartments, I know that places like Glebe are quite nice and quiet, but still near enough to the city centre.
Ultimo is an inner-city suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Ultimo is located 2 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of the City of Sydney. Broadway is a locality around the road of the same name, which is located on the borders of Ultimo, Chippendale and Glebe. Ultimo is well-served by public transport. Central railway station is at the southern border of the suburb, on the opposite side of Broadway. The Dulwich Hill Line of Sydney's light rail network has stations at the eastern edge of the suburb, where Ultimo borders Darling Harbour. Many buses travel along Broadway.
ultimo. adv. 1. (esp abbreviated in formal correspondence)in or during the previous monthAbbreviation: ult. Compare instant 7, proximo: a letter of the 7th ultimo. 
Despite its slow-moving traffic, Ultimo thumps at a frenzied pace. University students, cultural institutions, and cable-suspension bridges collide and break away from one another in this south central neighborhood. Ultimately, it’s what Ultimo isn’t that makes it so appealing. At the crossroads of neighborhoods like Surry Hills, Chippendale, Glebe, and Redfern, Ultimo's rail, metro, and bus systems whisk commuters and travelers into and out of the CBD, The Rocks, and Woolloomooloo. Not everyone is looking to pass through Ultimo. It's increasingly becoming a neighborhood not to be passed up.
Everything is as the master commands.. ―Ultimo to Yamato. Ultimo (ウルティモ, Urutimo) is one of the main protagonists and opposite of the central antagonist, Vice, making him the embodiment of ultimate good. He is the leader of The Good Doji Dôji, club and his master Is Yamato, agari who was also his master in the 12th. century 1 Crane Sword (Tsurugi): This transformation alters Ultimo's left arm into the form of a elegant blade, that is many times larger than himself. 2  The shape of the blade is styled like a Crane's beak and even with its large size, Ultimo wields it with both extreme precision and speed.