“Many of these symptoms are classic signs of vitamin D deficiency osteomalacia, which is different from the vitamin D deficiency that causes osteoporosis in adults,” he says. “What’s happening is that the vitamin D deficiency causes a defect in putting calcium into the collagen matrix into your skeleton. 
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Vitamin A deficiency? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Vitamin A deficiency. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Vitamin A deficiency returned 9 matches. 
Symptoms of bone pain and muscle weakness can mean you have a vitamin D deficiency. However, for many people, the symptoms are subtle. Yet, even without symptoms, too little vitamin D can pose health risks. Low blood levels of the vitamin have been associated with the following: Traditionally, vitamin D deficiency has been associated with rickets, a disease in which the bone tissue doesn't properly mineralize, leading to soft bones and skeletal deformities. But increasingly, research is revealing the importance of vitamin D in protecting against a host of health problems.
Prevalence of vitamin A deficiency. Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is a lack of vitamin A in humans. It is common in poorer countries but rarely seen in more developed countries. Nyctalopia (night blindness) is one of the first signs of VAD. Xerophthalmia, keratomalacia, and complete blindness can also occur since Vitamin A has a major role in phototransduction.
Magnesium deficiency can cause loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, fatigue, and weakness. In more severe cases, it can lead to numbness, muscle cramps, seizures, abnormal heart rhythms, personality changes, or low potassium or calcium levels. The organization says symptoms of severe B12 deficiency include numbness in the legs, hands, or feet; problems with walking and balance; anemia; fatigue; weakness; a swollen, inflamed tongue; memory loss; paranoia; and hallucinations.
Symptoms of a deficiency include weight loss, muscle weakness, constipation, and in severe cases, an abnormal heart rhythm. For natural potassium sources, Psota recommends bananas, whole grains, milk, vegetables, beans, and peas. 4. Iron. Iron helps your body make red blood cells. The organization says symptoms of severe B12 deficiency include numbness in the legs, hands, or feet; problems with walking and balance; anemia; fatigue; weakness; a swollen, inflamed tongue; memory loss; paranoia; and hallucinations.
No joke, says Holick. It's one of the first, classic signs of vitamin D deficiency.. You have gut trouble. People with Crohn's, celiac or inflammatory bowel disease may be a greater risk for vitamin D deficiency because of the way these gastrointestinal conditions affect fat absorption. Studies have shown distinct demographic differences in rates of vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency. Your skin pigment is natural sunscreen, says Holick. A sunscreen with 30 SPF reduces the skin's ability to make vitamin D by a whopping 97 percent, he says.
1 A diet which is rich in Vitamin A is usually the treatment and the best prevention method of vitamin A deficiency. 2  Liver, kidney, milk, cheese, cream and butter are rich sources of Vitamin A. Vitamin A can also be absorbed in the body through Carotene which is found in vegetables which have dark green vegetables. There are many symptoms of Vitamin A deficiency through which one can detect low levels of Vitamin A in the body. These symptoms are as follows, 1  Reduced vision in the night or dim light; which means that they will not be able to distinguish outlines of images in reduced illumination.