Neomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic found in many topical medications such as creams, ointments, and eyedrops. The discovery of neomycin dates back to 1949. It was discovered in the lab of Selman Waksman, who was later awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1951. Neomycin belongs to aminoglycoside class of antibiotics that contain two or more aminosugars connected by glycosidic bonds. Aminoglycosides such as neomycin are known for their ability to bind to duplex RNA with high affinity. The association constant for neomycin with A-site RNA has been found to be in the 10 9 M −1 range.
Neomycin. Neomycin is an antibiotic that belongs to the aminoglycoside family. It inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by irreversibly binding to the 30S ribosomal subunits. It is active against some aerobic gram-positive and multiple aerobic gram-negative bacteria (Gehrig & Warshaw, 2008). The frequency of neomycin allergies have ranged from 7.2%–13.1% in the past 20 years in patch test patients (Gehrig & Warshaw, 2008). To promote awareness, the American Contact Dermatitis Society (ACDS) recently named neomycin the 2010 Allergen of the Year (McNamara, 2010).
By mouth. Oral neomycin is used to help lessen the symptoms of hepatic coma, a complication of liver disease. In addition, it may be used with another medicine… Read more. Brand names include: Neo-Fradin.
On the skin. Neomycin belongs to the family of medicines called antibiotics. Neomycin topical preparations are used to help prevent infections of the skin. This medicine… Read more. Oral neomycin is used to help lessen the symptoms of hepatic coma, a complication of liver disease. In addition, it may be used with another medicine… Read more. Brand names include: Neo-Fradin.
Neomycin can harm your kidneys, and this effect is increased when you also use certain other medicines harmful to the kidneys. Before using neomycin, tell your doctor about all other medicines you use. Many other drugs (including some over-the-counter medicines) can be harmful to the kidneys. Neomycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not take this medicine if you are allergic to neomycin or similar antibiotics such as amikacin (Amikin), gentamicin (Garamycin), kanamycin (Kantrex), paromomycin (Humatin, Paromycin), streptomycin, or tobramycin (Nebcin, Tobi).
Neomycin is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. Neomycin is used to reduce the risk of infection during surgery of your intestines. Neomycin is also used to reduce the symptoms of hepatic coma. Neomycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not take this medicine if you are allergic to neomycin or similar antibiotics such as amikacin (Amikin), gentamicin (Garamycin), kanamycin (Kantrex), paromomycin (Humatin, Paromycin), streptomycin, or tobramycin (Nebcin, Tobi).
Precautions. Before taking neomycin tablets, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other aminoglycoside antibiotics (such as tobramycin); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Neomycin may also be used along with a special diet to treat a certain serious brain problem (hepatic encephalopathy). This condition is caused by too much of a certain natural substance (ammonia). Normally, the liver gets rid of ammonia, but liver disease can cause too much ammonia to build up in the body.
After patients reach the age of 60 years old or more, they are 150% more likely to be allergic to neomycin (Gehrig & Warshaw, 2008). Another study showed 2.7% of patients less than 70 years old were allergic to neomycin, compared to 8.8% of patients greater than 70 years old (Green, Holden, & Gawkrodger, 2007). The frequency of neomycin allergies have ranged from 7.2%–13.1% in the past 20 years in patch test patients (Gehrig & Warshaw, 2008). To promote awareness, the American Contact Dermatitis Society (ACDS) recently named neomycin the 2010 Allergen of the Year (McNamara, 2010).
Not to be confused with kanamycin B. Kanamycin (also known as kanamycin A) is an aminoglycoside bacteriocidal antibiotic, available in oral, intravenous, and intramuscular forms, and used to treat a wide variety of infections. Kanamycin is isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces kanamyceticus and its most commonly used form is kanamycin sulfate. 
Neomycin is not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and has been used as a preventive measure for hepatic encephalopathy and hypercholesterolemia. By killing bacteria in the intestinal tract, it keeps ammonia levels low and prevents hepatic encephalopathy, especially prior to GI surgery. Aminoglycosides such as neomycin are known for their ability to bind to duplex RNA with high affinity. The association constant for neomycin with A-site RNA has been found to be in the 10 9 M −1 range.