Oxytocin and vasopressin are the only known hormones released by the human posterior pituitary gland to act at a distance. However, oxytocin neurons make other peptides, including corticotropin-releasing hormone and dynorphin, for example, that act locally. Oxytocin is also made by some neurons in the paraventricular nucleus that project to other parts of the brain and to the spinal cord. Depending on the species, oxytocin receptor-expressing cells are located in other areas, including the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.
Oxytocin (OT) acts as an important hormone in a human reproductive system and its effects on uterus, ovary, trophoblasts, testis, and prostate glands are already described (Copland et al., 2002 and Thackare et al., 2006). (1990) observed that OT has a mitogenic effect on MCF7 cells, and Cassoni et al., 1994 and Cassoni et al., 1997 revealed that it inhibits cell proliferation in MCF7, T47D, and MDA-MB231 cell lines, but Ito et al. (1996) found that it had no effect on the proliferation of breast cancer cells.
But even supposing this hypothesis to be true, OT may help prevention of breast cancer and administration of OT for the treatment of such a cancer is still to be found. Hence, it is believed that OT is a protective hormone against breast cancer. (1990) observed that OT has a mitogenic effect on MCF7 cells, and Cassoni et al., 1994 and Cassoni et al., 1997 revealed that it inhibits cell proliferation in MCF7, T47D, and MDA-MB231 cell lines, but Ito et al. (1996) found that it had no effect on the proliferation of breast cancer cells.
Neuromodulatory control by oxytocin is essential to a wide range of social, parental and stress-related behaviours. Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are associated with deficiencies in oxytocin levels and with genetic alterations of the oxytocin receptor (OXTR) . 
Oxytocin is critical in making a strong emotional rapport with others. Oxytocin is a key hormone of love. When the level of oxytocin is low, there is less emotional attachment, less interest in social engagement, less caring and bonding, and less touch … in short, less love. “Less love” has a physical base. So something like oxytocin can be a marker for love. Speaking broadly, it can indicate where and when fear and pain took the place of love very early on. Love is defined broadly as having one’s need fulfilled in a timely manner; that means even in the womb, during gestation, there are needs that require fulfillment.
All we know at this point is that in animal models, including non-human primates, oxytocin at the level of the brain plays a role in the expression of maternal, sexual, social, stress and feeding behaviors, as well as learning and memory.. Conversely, too little oxytocin or a reduced sensitivity to it could also be one of several factors in maternal child abuse or neglect, Witt said. Stripped of the buffer afforded by mother love, mothers could be indifferent to their children or could quickly come to see their children as burdensome or worse.
Oxytocin (/ˌɒksɨˈtoʊsɪn/ ; Oxt) is a nonapeptide hormone in mammals. Oxytocin is also made by some neurons in the paraventricular nucleus that project to other parts of the brain and to the spinal cord. Depending on the species, oxytocin receptor-expressing cells are located in other areas, including the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.
Cuddle hormone. But a Binghamton researcher s work is suggesting that oxytocin, sometimes known as the cuddle hormone because of its influence on maternal behavior and pair bonding, may be tied to such pressing socio-sexual problems as eating disorders, pedophilia, and child abuse and neglect. Conversely, too little oxytocin or a reduced sensitivity to it could also be one of several factors in maternal child abuse or neglect, Witt said. Stripped of the buffer afforded by mother love, mothers could be indifferent to their children or could quickly come to see their children as burdensome or worse.
Studies have looked at oxytocin's role in various behaviors, including orgasm, social recognition, pair bonding, anxiety, and maternal behaviors. As a medication, it is used to cause contraction of the uterus, which is used to start labor, increase the speed of labor, and to stop bleeding following delivery. Oxytocin is also made by some neurons in the paraventricular nucleus that project to other parts of the brain and to the spinal cord. Depending on the species, oxytocin receptor-expressing cells are located in other areas, including the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.
Oxytocin (OT) is the first peptide hormone structurally assessed and chemically synthesized in biologically active form. This hormone acts as an important factor in a human reproductive system particularly during pregnancy and lactation in women. (1990) observed that OT has a mitogenic effect on MCF7 cells, and Cassoni et al., 1994 and Cassoni et al., 1997 revealed that it inhibits cell proliferation in MCF7, T47D, and MDA-MB231 cell lines, but Ito et al. (1996) found that it had no effect on the proliferation of breast cancer cells.