Burma, or Myanmar as it is called by the Military Junta, is a country where magnificent and ancient Buddhist temples gaze out serenely over a nation restless for change. 
The Burmese language (မြန်မာဘာသာ , MLCTS: myanma bhasa, [bəma bəmà]) baða bàðà is the official Language. of myanmar The most pronounced feature of the Arakanese language of Rakhine State is its retention of the [ɹ] sound, which has become a [j] sound in standard Burmese. Also, Arakanese features a variety of vowel differences, including the merger of the ဧ [e] and ဣ [i] vowels.
Burmese is the most widely spoken of the non-Sinitic Sino-Tibetan languages. Burmese was the fifth of the Sino-Tibetan languages to develop a writing system, after Chinese characters, the Pyu script, the Tibetan alphabet and the Tangut script. The most pronounced feature of the Arakanese language of Rakhine State is its retention of the [ɹ] sound, which has become a [j] sound in standard Burmese. Also, Arakanese features a variety of vowel differences, including the merger of the ဧ [e] and ဣ [i] vowels.
Burmese is a tonal, pitch-register, and syllable-timed language, largely monosyllabic and analytic language, with a subject–object–verb word order. It is a member of the Lolo-Burmese grouping of the Sino-Tibetan language family. The most pronounced feature of the Arakanese language of Rakhine State is its retention of the [ɹ] sound, which has become a [j] sound in standard Burmese. Also, Arakanese features a variety of vowel differences, including the merger of the ဧ [e] and ဣ [i] vowels.
As for the country's name, the commission decided to replace the English name Burma with Myanmar, for three reasons. First, Myanma is the official name of the country in the Burmese language, and the aim of the commission was to have English place names aligned with Burmese place names and pronunciation. The final r in the English Myanmar is absent in Burmese Myanma (much as the medial r in Burma is absent in standard Burmese Bama). The commission added a final r in English to represent the low tone of Burmese, in which the word Myanma is pronounced. In the low tone, the final vowel a is lengthened.
The Karen languages are comprised of a group of languages spoken primarily in lower Myanmar and coastal areas of Thailand. Karen languages exhibit a unique variety of traits that have made it difficult for scholars to determine their origins and confidently classify them in a specific linguistic category. 
Destination Myanmar. Myanmar is a country in Southeast Asia, also known as Burma, its also called the Golden Land. With an area of 676,578 km² the country is almost twice the size of Germany or slightly smaller than the U.S. state of Texas
Burmese is spoken as a first language by 32 million, primarily the Bamar people and related sub-ethnic groups, and as a second language by 10 million, particularly ethnic minorities in Myanmar and neighboring countries like the Mon. The most pronounced feature of the Arakanese language of Rakhine State is its retention of the [ɹ] sound, which has become a [j] sound in standard Burmese. Also, Arakanese features a variety of vowel differences, including the merger of the ဧ [e] and ဣ [i] vowels.
The official English name was changed by the country's government from the Union of Burma to the Union of Myanmar in 1989, and still later to the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, which since then have been the subject of controversies and mixed incidences of adoption. The final r in the English Myanmar is absent in Burmese Myanma (much as the medial r in Burma is absent in standard Burmese Bama). The commission added a final r in English to represent the low tone of Burmese, in which the word Myanma is pronounced. In the low tone, the final vowel a is lengthened.
The country popularly known in English as both Myanmar and Burma has undergone changes in both its official and popular names worldwide. The choice of names stems from the existence of two different names for the country in Burmese, which are used in different contexts. The final r in the English Myanmar is absent in Burmese Myanma (much as the medial r in Burma is absent in standard Burmese Bama). The commission added a final r in English to represent the low tone of Burmese, in which the word Myanma is pronounced. In the low tone, the final vowel a is lengthened.