HSA is certified by Cal/OSHA as a training provider for all AHERA (asbestos) refresher courses and is certified by the. Department of Public Health (CDPH) as a training provider. for lead worker, lead supervisor/project monitor, and. all lead continuing education courses. Course Fee: $145.00. Course Description: If you are applying for a new certificate and it has been more than 1 year since you completed your CDPH-approved training, you must refresh that training by taking CDPH-approved Worker Continuing Education before applying for certification.
The act mandated specific training and accreditation for people doing asbestos inspections and work in schools. On April 4, 1994, AHERA accreditation became mandatory for all asbestos inspection, project design, project supervision, and project work done in all public and commercial buildings. New OSHA regulations match this EPA requirement
This information is used to maintain a roster of individuals who have received a certificate in any of the asbestos disciplines from an approved trainer. Training approval is also available from the division for asbestos cement (AC) pipe courses. The regulatory requirements on how to apply for AC pipe trainer approval are found in Title 8 CCR section 341.17. Finally, approved trainers must permit the division to attend any course covered by the regulation for the purpose of auditing against requirements of the regulation.
Approval of Asbestos Training Courses In order for individuals performing asbestos-related work to become accredited, they must successfully complete a designated training course that is recognized or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the Asbestos Program. The Asbestos Hazardous Emergency Response Act (AHERA) of 1986 is an act mandated by Congress and administered by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate asbestos in schools.
The course provider shall remit a roster fee of $5 for each certificated trainee of a Construction Craft Worker Course, and $10 for each certificated trainee of each AHERA training course as specified in Section 341.16(c)(1). The annual cumulative roster fees must total a minimum of $150 for each approved course. Only those individuals who appear on the roster will be considered in compliance with the training requirements of AHERA or subsections 1529(k)(9) for employees engaged in asbestos-related work requiring employer registration.
It satisfies the training requirements of OSHA/Cal-OSHA’s Class I and II Competent Person training for asbestos as well as EPA’s Model Accreditation Plan (AHERA) training. This course satisfies the AHERA training requirements for schools and OSHA/Cal-OSHA requirements for Class III workers and Class III and IV Competent Person training. Topics include health effects, personal protective equipment, and safe work practices. Hands-on activities are an integral part of the learning process.
It satisfies the training requirements of OSHA/Cal-OSHA’s Class I and II worker training as well as EPA’s Model Accreditation Plan requirements for AHERA worker training. Topics include recognition of asbestos-containing materials, health effects, personal protective equipment, and safe work practices. This course satisfies the AHERA training requirements for schools and OSHA/Cal-OSHA requirements for Class III workers and Class III and IV Competent Person training. Topics include health effects, personal protective equipment, and safe work practices. Hands-on activities are an integral part of the learning process.
This course satisfies OSHA qualification requirements for sampling of PACM and AHERA/ASHARA requirements for asbestos inspections of schools, and public and commercial buildings. Asbestos Management Planner *. This 2-day course is for personnel involved in the long-term facility planning of all asbestos activities. This course satisfies the AHERA training requirements for schools and OSHA/Cal-OSHA requirements for Class III workers and Class III and IV Competent Person training. Topics include health effects, personal protective equipment, and safe work practices. Hands-on activities are an integral part of the learning process.
Asbestos Trainer's Approval. People who are involved in dealing with building materials that contain asbestos must be trained according to U.S. EPA requirements found in the Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act (AHERA). The regulatory requirements on how to apply for AC pipe trainer approval are found in Title 8 CCR section 341.17. Finally, approved trainers must permit the division to attend any course covered by the regulation for the purpose of auditing against requirements of the regulation.