Tarquin is an uncommon first name for men. Tarquin is also a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Tarquin for boys. Roman clan name: the name of two Etruscan kings of early pre-republican Rome (about fifth century AD). The son of the last king caused the famous Rape of Lucretia, the Roman matron who killed herself rather than live in shame.
What does Torquil mean? Torquil /tor-quil/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Scottish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Torquil is  Thor 's helmet. From Torcall, which is derived from an Old Norse name that also is the source form of the Swedish name Torkel. Also possibly (Old Norse) Thor's kettle, referring to a cauldron used in sacrifice. Torquil is a rare first name for males. Torquil is a rare surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Torquil for boys.
Tarquin /tar-quin/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin origin. Roman clan name: the name of two Etruscan kings of early pre-republican Rome (about fifth century AD). The son of the last king caused the famous Rape of Lucretia, the Roman matron who killed herself rather than live in shame.
Torquil, is a quirky but intriguing option that evolved from an ancient Scandinavian name and was imported into Scotland by the Vikings. The Gaelic form of the name is Torcaill. Torquil MacLeod was the name of an early Scottish clan chief. 
Meaning of Torquil. Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Torquil means-thor his cauldro.The name Torquil originated as an Scottish name. The name Torquil is most often used as a boy name or male name. Scottish Name Meaning-thor his cauldro.
[ 2 syll. tor-qui(l) , to-rqu-il ] The baby boy name Torquil is pronounced as T AO RKWihL †. Torquil is largely used in Scottish and its origin is Old Norse. Torquil is a variant transcription of the name Torcall (Scottish). Torquil is not commonly used as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 