Radial styloidectomy: An anatomical study with special reference to radiocarpal intracapsular ligamentous morphology This study determines the anatomical relationship of the radiocarpal ligaments to the radial styloid process, and the effect of three specific styloidectomies on the integrity of the these ligaments. Thirty fresh cadaveric wrists were dissected. The origins, insertions, and dimensions of each ligament was determined.
Conclusion. Arthroscopic radial styloidectomy is a useful treatment for symptomatic arthritis localized to the distal radioscaphoid articulation, either as an isolated technique or as an adjunct to another carpal procedure. 
Summary Points: 1  Arthroscopic debridement and radial styloidectomy can be an effective procedure to delay or prevent PRC or intercarpal arthrodesis. 2  The procedure is indicated for SLAC II or SLAC III wrists as an intermediate step to relieve pain and preserve functional motion. 
The radial styloid process is a projection of bone on the lateral surface of the distal radius bone. It extends obliquely downward into a strong, conical projection. The tendon of the brachioradialis attaches at its base, and the radial collateral ligament of the wrist attaches at its apex. 
Radial styloidectomy: a biomechanical study on stability of the wrist joint. Nakamura T, Cooney WP 3rd, Lui WH, Haugstvedt JR, Zhao KD, Berglund L, An KN. 
Radial styloidectomy is a procedure that involves removal of radial styloid. It is a kind of salvage procedure which aims to reduce pain arising from radial styoid impingement that that may occur in scaphoid nonunion or scapholunate instability. It may not be a definitive treatment though. Radial styloidectomy is an acceptable alternative to more aggressive procedures in patients with low functional demands or those who wish to defer more definitive treatment. Radial styloidectomy is contraindicated in patients with ulnar translocation of carpus. It is a kind of palliative procedure. This suits to the patients who want minimum surgical intervention. It however, rarely address the underlying cause. 
- if there is evidence of arthritic change in the lunate fossa and/or proximal involvement of the head of the capitate; Proximal Row Carpectomy. Four-Corner Arthrodesis Versus Proximal Row Carpectomy: A Retrospective Study With a Mean Follow-Up of 17 Years. Proximal row carpectomy: a multicenter study. - proximal row carpectomy may not be appropriate for Kienboeck kienböck disease since lunate collapse damages the joint surfaces of the capitate and; - Radius: - technique dorsal longitudinal approach thru the third; - compartment lunate fossa and head of the capitate were inspected for degenerative. changes
By Arun Pal Singh Leave a Comment. Proximal row carpectomy is a surgical procedure that involves removal of bones of proximal row of the wrist namely Scaphoid, lunate, triquetral and in some cases radial styloid. It is a motion sparing procedure