French Indochina French Indochina was a federation of French colonies and protectorates in Southeast Asia, part of the French colonial empire. It consisted of Cochin China, Tonkin, Annam, Laos and Cambodia. France assumed sovereignty over Annam and Tonkin after the Franco-Chinese War (1884 1885). French Indochina was formed in October 1887, from Annam, Tonkin, Cochin China, and the Kingdom of Cambodia; Laos was added in 1893. The federation lasted until 1954. The capital of French Indochina was Hanoi
Ho Chi Minh was born Nguyen Sinh Cung on May 19, 1890, in a village in central Vietnam (then part of French Indochina). In 1911, he found work as a cook on a French steamer and spent the next several years at sea, traveling to Africa, the United States and Britain, among other locations. During the First Indochina War, the French returned Bao Dai to power and set up the state of Vietnam (South Vietnam) in July 1949, with Saigon as its capital. Armed conflict between the two states continued until a decisive battle at Dien Bien Phu ended in French defeat by Viet Minh forces.
French–Vietnamese relations started as early as the 17th century with the mission of the Jesuit father Alexandre de Rhodes. Various traders would visit Vietnam during the 18th century, until the major involvement of French forces under Pigneau de Behaine béhaine from 1787 to 1789 helped establish The Nguyễn. dynasty France was heavily involved in Vietnam in the 19th century under the pretext of protecting the work of Catholic missionaries in the country. France progressively carved for itself a huge colony, which would form French Indochina in 1887. France continued to rule Vietnam as a colony until France's defeat in the First Indochina War and the proclamation of Vietnam's independence in 1954.
In the late 19th century Vietnam became a French colony. However the French took over Vietnam in stages. In 1859 they captured Saigon. Finally in 1883 North and Central Vietnam was forced to become a French protectorate. However the French army soon arrived in the south to take control from the British. In the north Chinese troops moved in. However Ho Chi Minh soon decided that the French were the lesser of two evils and he signed a treaty, which said that French troops should replace Chinese troops in North Vietnam for 5 years.
Vietnam War: After WWII, Vietnam gained independence but France still ruled the country until Ho Chi Mihn took over in 1954. In 1959, North Vietnam began and forced a policy to reunify the country, which led to outbreak of the American War in Vietnam in the early 1960s. This concluded on April 30, 1975 when North Vietnamese soldiers captured the city of Saigon and forced the surrender of the South Vietnamese government.
Beginning in May 1941, the Viet Minh, a communist army led by Ho Chi Minh, began a revolt against the Japanese. In August 1945 they declared Vietnamese independence and extended the war, known as the First Indochina War, against France. In Saigon, the anti-Communist State of Vietnam, led by former Emperor Bảo Đại, was granted independence in 1949. 
French Rule: The French colonized Vietnam in the mid 1800s. In 1885, France looked to take over Vietnam and in 1887 they did it. The French started to integrate more Western ideals, education, and religion including, for the first time, introducing Christianity. Their main exports were tobacco, indigo, tea and coffee. In 1959, North Vietnam began and forced a policy to reunify the country, which led to outbreak of the American War in Vietnam in the early 1960s. This concluded on April 30, 1975 when North Vietnamese soldiers captured the city of Saigon and forced the surrender of the South Vietnamese government.
Japan decided to take advantage of French weakness and they forced the French government to allow Japanese troops to occupy French Indo-China, although they left the French administration in place. The Vietnamese Communists or Viet Minh fought the Japanese and by 1945 they controlled parts of North Vietnam. Meanwhile in March 1945 the Japanese took control of the administration of Vietnam and when Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945 they left a power vacuum. Ho Chi Minh moved quickly to fill the vacuum. However the French army soon arrived in the south to take control from the British. In the north Chinese troops moved in. However Ho Chi Minh soon decided that the French were the lesser of two evils and he signed a treaty, which said that French troops should replace Chinese troops in North Vietnam for 5 years.