i'm fitting a shower room into my bedroom and unsure if i have to connect the drain for the dirty water to my soil stack wether i can drain it into my rain water gutter system as it is only dirty water and not soil waste. Update: my rain water system goes down the drain. Best Answer: If your washer, dishwasher, bath and sink go into the gutter I see no reason why your shower can*t also. After all it is the same water as bath water. Go for it.
Draining Your Swimming Pool. Don't drain pool water into the street, gutters or storm drains: this is a violation of local codes and you could be cited for water waste. Draining your pool into the sewer system allows water to be treated and reused. Do not drain your pool into a septic tank. Some pools have their own sewer connection so you can drain your pool directly into the sewer system. If yours doesn't, use these tips to drain your pool: 1  Shut off the power to the pool's filtration system at the circuit breaker and turn off the automatic water fill valv
Gutter Drains. Gutter drains are one of the single most important parts of your gutter system. Gutter downspout drains will reduce the amount of rain water entering the soil at the foundation of your home and limit the soils expansion and contraction, which leads to foundation cracks and masonry failure. If you decide to use downspout splash blocks, make sure they are used in an area with proper drainage away from your foundation. One of the most common mistakes I see is downspouts that are dumping water right into flower bed between the foundation and a sidewalk, concentrating it in that area.
If there is a way for the water to drain onto his property, then he's supposed to do that. I wouldn't approach him angrily or talk about laws -- instead, tell him you have plenty of your own drainage problems, and can you two talk about his moving the outlet so it doesn't drain into your yard or driveway. 
You would need to check with the local codes in your area to be sure I know many areas have now made it illegal to tie your gutters into the sewer drain system. So the best bet is to call the local building inspector he can tell you a for sure answer. Best Answer: If your washer, dishwasher, bath and sink go into the gutter I see no reason why your shower can*t also. After all it is the same water as bath water. Go for it.
You recomend 4 diameter pipe, but I am trying to determine how many downspouts I can run in one 4 diameter pipe. I live in KY and the way the lot is set up, I will have plenty of slope and it will be draining into a creek, but the square footage of my roof is approx. 
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. you can not drain into the ground,,,, unless you create a large leech field, dig a large underground storage unit or as i did, dig a trench, lay in plastic pipe that connects to the end of your gutters and cover the pipe back up.. run the other end of the pipe out into a ditch or sewer system!! fuzzykjun · 9 years ago. 
2. Drill a few holes in the lower ending edge of the gutter. I made my top gutter drain into the one below. The bottom gutter will eventually drain into a watering can or bucket. 3. Place the end caps on each gutter section and use the glue or putty to secure them. The glue was an afterthought for us, but the end caps tended to pop off without it, so I had to add it after the gutters were hanging. 
How to Install a Pop-Up Gutter Drain. These drains are attached to the end of a pipe that runs underneath the surface of your yard. Here are the steps to installing a pop-up gutter drain system : Step 1: Dig a hole underneath your gutter downspout and place a catch basin in the hole. Step 2: Dig a trench from the catch basin to a curb, creek, alley, or other area where the runoff water can easily drain. Step 3: Fasten a pipe near the bottom of the catch basin and run it along the bottom of the trench