I've seen transcriptionists charge .25 to .50 per audio minute, and wonder how they are surviving! That works out to 3.25 to 7.50 an hour! Minimum wage in my state is $7.40 an hour, and I think transcription deserves far more than that! It's a skill, and not everyone can do it. Because of that, I charge by audio minute for all transcription work. I do offer a transcription retainer package, which is for clear audio, 2 hour chunks, at a 10% discount.
For those of you who offer transcription services, I am wondering how you bill: per hour, per project, per page, per line or per word. Also how do you deterime the amount of time it takes to transcribe an audio file or tape. Is it based on number of speakers, length of recording, quality of recording, etc. Because of that, I charge by audio minute for all transcription work. I do offer a transcription retainer package, which is for clear audio, 2 hour chunks, at a 10% discount.
Medical Transcription Service Average Costs. It is standard for medical transcription services to charge per line of text. Although the average cost is usually $0.12 to $0.14 per line, prices can actually range anywhere from $0.07 to $0.20 per line. Many providers will let you do a trial run at no charge. This is a great opportunity to compare vendors. You want a transcription service that strives to meet all of your practice’s healthcare documentation needs. It is standard for medical transcription services to charge per line of text. Although the average cost is usually $0.12 to $0.14 per line, prices can actually range anywhere from $0.07 to $0.20 per line.
In Reply to: I have only done medical transcription and we charge by the line, not by the page. I have been approached about legal transcription work for template documents such as wills, estate planning, etc. I have been asked what I charge per page...I live in the Northeast/Connecticut area. Per page rate for legal transcription. I don't do legal, but do general transcription for a local college and charge $5.00 per page using Verdana 9 font or Times New Roman 10 font (they like it small). I do over 200 pages a month, so it works for me.
Wage-and-salary medical transcriptionists had median hourly earnings of $14.40 in May 2006. The middle 50 percent earned between $12.17 and $17.06. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $10.22, and the highest 10 percent earned more than $20.15. - XMNEXT So basically you want to know how much a transcriptionist makes. As with any profession, the rate of pay for … medical transcriptionists can vary, depending on your location on the company you're working for. Typically, new MTs starting out can expect to make $8 to $12 per hour USD.
Although this is a straightforward method of charging for transcription, it has one disadvantage – the transcription client will not know in advance how much the transcription project will cost. Most transcription service providers calculate medical transcription rates according to this pricing method. 
At 12 cents per line, you just earned $48.00. At 10 cents per line, you just earned $40.00. Some transcriptionists charge by the page or by the character, but it is important to remember that by charging by the character you will earn less money. It is better to charge by the line. The company I first worked for was making $70,000 per year in 1994, and at that time they were charging the doctors nine cents per line. They hired four girls to work for them, subcontracting, and the owner herself typed about 1000 lines per day.
Re: Per hour, per project, per page, per line or per word. I really think that a per minute rate works best. It makes it very clear right off the bat how much the person can expect to pay for the transcription work. Because of that, I charge by audio minute for all transcription work. I do offer a transcription retainer package, which is for clear audio, 2 hour chunks, at a 10% discount.