The fat-soluble vitamins are A, D, E, and K. Adequate absorption of these vitamins is dependent on efficient fat intake and absorption. Except for vitamin K, fat-soluble vitamins are not easily excreted from the body, so they can be toxic at excessive levels. 
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble vitamins. They are considered prohormones, or the precursors to hormones, and are essential to endocrine health. There are several forms of vitamin D, but the most common are ergocalciferol (vitamin D2) and cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) which are known together as calciferol. Vitamin A: Its Role in Health. Vitamin A, like other fat soluble vitamins, is critical to health. It is essential to growing children and to mothers and fathers who are trying to conceive. It promotes a healthy immune system, fertility, good vision and healthy skin.
A vitamin that is soluble in fat solvents and oils (lipo-soluble). Fat-soluble vitamins include vitamins A, D, E, K, F. Absorbed with ingested dietary fat, fat-soluble vitamins are stored in moderate amounts from the gastrointestinal tract.
Fat and Water Soluble Vitamins Explained. Water soluble vitamins and fat soluble vitamins are nutrients your body needs in your diet for you to stay healthy. For optimal health, it is important to get the vitamins and minerals your body needs--either through a balanced, nutritious diet, health supplements, or both. Your body requires two kinds of vitamins: fat soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K) and water soluble vitamins (B-complex and C).
1 The difference (if any) between vitamins that are water soluble and those that are not -- There is a big difference between the water soluble vitamins and the fat soluble vitamins and this is absolutely a critical distinction.  2 Specifically Vitamin E -- Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin. 1 Specifically Vitamin E -- Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin. 2  Although it can be water solubilized in the lab to help its absorption through the intestinal wall, once it is absorbed into the body it would appear to behave as a fat soluble vitamin does.
Doctor's Answer: Vitamins are classified as either fat soluble (vitamins A, D, E and K) or water soluble (vitamins B and C). This difference between the two groups is very important. It determines how each vitamin acts within the body. The fat soluble vitamins are soluble in lipids (fats). 1 Specifically Vitamin E -- Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin. 2  Although it can be water solubilized in the lab to help its absorption through the intestinal wall, once it is absorbed into the body it would appear to behave as a fat soluble vitamin does.
Vitamins come in two varieties: water soluble and fat soluble. Water soluble vitamins, such as B complex vitamins and vitamin C, dissolve in water and are excreted through the kidneys if you have excess amounts in your body. Fat-soluble vitamins--namely vitamins A, D, E and K--dissolve in fat and are stored in fat throughout the body. 
In humans there are 13 vitamins: 4 fat-soluble (A, D, E, and K) and 9 water-soluble (8 B vitamins and vitamin C). Water-soluble vitamins dissolve easily in water and, in general, are readily excreted from the body, to the degree that urinary output is a strong predictor of vitamin consumption. As a result, most of the fat-soluble vitamins (such as the vitamins A, D, E, and K) that contain amounts above the daily allowance are drug products. The daily dosage of a vitamin supplement for example cannot exceed 300% of the recommended daily allowance, and for vitamin A, this limit is even lower (200%).