Instructions. 1  Slice cucumbers as thin as you can. 2  Stir in salt, and let it sit for 5 minutes. 3  Squeeze water out from cucumbers. 4  In a small bowl, mix rice vinegar, sugar, and soy sauce together until sugar dissolves. 5  Add vinegar mixture and sesame seeds to prepared cucumbers and mix well. Sunomono (Cucumber Salad) is a perfect small side dish. It’s easy to make, healthy to eat, and very refreshing to accompany any main dish.
1 Slice cucumbers as thin as you can. 2  Stir in salt, and let it sit for 5 minutes. 3  Squeeze water out from cucumbers. 4  In a small bowl, mix rice vinegar, sugar, and soy sauce together until sugar dissolves. 5  Add vinegar mixture and sesame seeds to prepared cucumbers and mix well. Sunomono (Cucumber Salad) is a perfect small side dish. It’s easy to make, healthy to eat, and very refreshing to accompany any main dish.
1,609 5 2 2 153 0. Ebi Sunomono is a Japanese dish consisting of shrimps (ebi) and thinly sliced cucumbers marinated in rice vinegar (su) for several hours. It has a sweet tangy taste and very refreshing. This dish is very versatile; you can omit the shrimp if you are not a fan of seafood. Instructions. 1  Cut the cucumbers into thin slices. 2  Rinse to remove salt, and drain. 3  Cook the noodles in boiling water until just tender (around 5 minutes). 4  In a medium bowl, combine rice vinegar, sugar and soy sauce. 5  To serve, divide cold vermicelli into 5 serving bowls.
Japanese for vinegared things, with a meaning similar to a salad. Sunomono ingredients may be raw or cooked and include items like broccoli, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, celery, cucumber, daikon, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, pea pods, spinach, string beans, seaweed and sometimes seafood, meat or poultry.
Tako Sunomono (Octopus Salad) is yet another variation of Sunomono, sliced vegetables soaked in sweet vinegar sauce. While the Sunomono can be as simple as a small dish of cucumber with some sesame seeds, we often mix in seafood such as Tako (octopus) or crab. Tako Sunomono, or Tako-su for short, can also be seen as an appetizer at many Japanese restaurants. 1 Slice cucumbers thinly and place them in a bowl. 2  Stir in salt, and let it sit for 5 minutes. 3  Squeeze water out from cucumbers. 4  Slice boiled or sashimi grade octopus thinly. 5  In a bowl, mix rice vinegar, sugar, and soy sauce together until sugar dissolves.
The Japanese word for vinegared things, with a meaning similar to a salad. Sunomono ingredients may be raw or cooked and include items like broccoli, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, celery, cucumber, daikon, lettuce, mushrooms, onions, pea pods, spinach, string beans, seaweed and sometimes seafood, meat or poultry. 
Instructions. 1  Slice cucumbers as thin as you can. 2  In a small bowl, mix rice vinegar, sugar, and soy sauce together until sugar dissolves. 3  Add vinegar mixture and sesame seeds to prepared cucumbers and mix well. Sunomono (Cucumber Salad) is a perfect small side dish. It’s easy to make, healthy to eat, and very refreshing to accompany any main dish.
Sunomono dishes are closely related to namasu, which is a Japanese dish comprised of uncooked vegetables or seafood that has been thinly sliced and marinated in su, or vinegar. Marinating the foods in vinegar often leaves them with an acidic, pickled taste. Rate this Story. Sunomono is a term that refers to a range of vinegar-based Japanese foods and Japanese dishes. 0. Be the first! Be the first! By Alexandra E. Petri, Editor. Photo Sasabune Omakase Modified: Flickr/ erin / CC 4.0. Su-no-mono is a term that refers to a range of vinegar-based Japanese foods and Japanese dishes