Advances in dental care have rendered gum surgery unnecessary in most instances, when compared to 10 and 20 years ago. Non-invasive treatment (without surgery) for moderate and many forms of advanced gum disease is now the normal course of treatment, rather than the exception among dentists such as Dr. Caputo. Cost of Gum Surgery. The cost per quadrant for gum surgery generally ranges from $1,250 to $1,500, or $5,000 to $6,000 for treatment of the entire mouth. Follow up care for both forms of treatment are the same, generally a maintenance cleaning three to four times per year.
Periodontitis. Periodontitis (per-e-o-don-TIE-tis) is a serious gum infection that damages the soft tissue and destroys the bone that supports your teeth. Periodontitis can cause tooth loss or worse, an increased risk of heart attack or stroke and other serious health problem
A standard of care for nonsurgical management of periodontal disease to reduce the dental risks for certain systemic diseases (noted above) is required if we, as professionals, are to produce highly predictable results in periodontal management, due to the severity of the health factors involved. 22 Thus, these antimicrobials should be used on a routine basis, as a standard of care, in managing periodontal disease. In order to successfully implement a standard, all patients must be presented with a plan of treatment that will reduce and control the disease.
It becomes evident to patients that they can develop a barometer to measure their periodontal health in susceptibility to disease. All of the data and variables are used to map the course of treatment. This map is developed with patient input based on their own treatment goals. In our opinion, the standard of care that determines protocol for any and all procedures in dentistry should apply equally from peer review committee to megapractices to dentistry in the small offices.
Gum disease is an infection of the tissues that surround and support your teeth. It is a major cause of tooth loss in adults. Because gum disease is usually painless, you may not know you have it. Aggressive periodontitis is a highly destructive form of periodontal disease that occurs in patients who are otherwise healthy. Common features include rapid loss of tissue and bone and may occur in some areas of the mouth, or in the entire mouth. Research between systemic diseases and periodontal diseases is ongoing.
We also point out to the patient all of the etiological factors that affect periodontal health and may compromise treatment. These include genetics, general systemic health, hormonal changes, diet, oral hygiene, occlusion, tobacco use, and stress. In our opinion, the standard of care that determines protocol for any and all procedures in dentistry should apply equally from peer review committee to megapractices to dentistry in the small offices.
Once periodontal health is established following an evidence-based standard of care, restorative and cosmetic dentistry can be considered. The patient can have more confidence in this treatment, since successful periodontal treatment has been provided and a stable condition of the periodontal tissues achieved. 22 Thus, these antimicrobials should be used on a routine basis, as a standard of care, in managing periodontal disease. In order to successfully implement a standard, all patients must be presented with a plan of treatment that will reduce and control the disease.
1 It is now possible, utilizing evidence-based technology and supported care, that active periodontal disease with 6 mm of pocket depth or less can be controlled successfully and periodontal health maintained. Pocket depths greater than 6 mm are found in less than 5% of the population. 1. 22 Thus, these antimicrobials should be used on a routine basis, as a standard of care, in managing periodontal disease. In order to successfully implement a standard, all patients must be presented with a plan of treatment that will reduce and control the disease.
The goal of periodontitis treatment is to thoroughly clean the pockets around teeth and prevent damage to surrounding bone. Treatment may be performed by a periodontist, a dentist or a dental hygienist. You have the best chance for successful treatment when you adopt a daily routine of good oral care. 