Forests, trees and plants are like carbon sinks that absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and turn it into oxygen. We need large expanses of forest to remove carbon dio … xide which is a greenhouse gas contributing to global warming. Deforestation means cutting down trees which directly affects the environment so that there will be less pure air or oxygen to breath as trees serve to clean air by taking in CO2 and releasing O2.
Deforestation has many negative effects on the environment. The most dramatic impact is a loss of habitat for millions of species. Seventy percent of Earth’s land animals and plants live in forests, and many cannot survive the deforestation that destroys their homes. Deforestation also drives climate change. Forests still cover about 30 percent of the world’s land area, but swaths the size of Panama are lost each and every year. The world’s rain forests could completely vanish in a hundred years at the current rate of deforestation.
Forests, trees and plants are like carbon sinks that absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and turn it into oxygen. We need large expanses of forest to remove carbon dioxide which is a greenhouse gas contributing to global warming. Deforestation means cutting down trees which directly affects the environment so that there will be less pure air or oxygen to breath as trees serve to clean air by taking in CO2 and releasing O2. We need large expanses of forest to remove carbon dio … 
Deforestation is caused by the growing demand for forest products and the conversion of forest to agriculture as the human population continues to expand. In a healthy forest about three fourth of the intercepted water is returned to the atmosphere as moisture laden air masses which move inland, cool and are converted to rain. Land cleared by deforestation returns only about one fourth of the rain water to the atmosphere.
Deforestation, clearance or clearing is the removal of a forest or stand of trees where the land is thereafter converted to a non-forest use. Examples of deforestation include conversion of forestland to farms, ranches, or urban use. Tropical rainforests is where the most concentrated deforestation occurs. Almost 30% of the world is covered by forests, excluding water mass.
Deforestation occurs for many reasons: trees are cut down to be used or sold as fuel (sometimes in the form of charcoal) or timber, while cleared land is used as pasture for livestock, plantations of commodities and settlements. Examples of deforestation include conversion of forestland to farms, ranches, or urban use. Tropical rainforests is where the most concentrated deforestation occurs. Almost 30% of the world is covered by forests, excluding water mass.
Deforestation is bad for the environment because trees are  necessary to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Carbon  dioxide is one of the greenhouse gases that is ca … using global  warming.    Animals have habitats in trees and forests and once they're cut  down, the birds and animals are at risk. We need large expanses of forest to remove carbon dio … xide which is a greenhouse gas contributing to global warming. Deforestation means cutting down trees which directly affects the environment so that there will be less pure air or oxygen to breath as trees serve to clean air by taking in CO2 and releasing O2.
Deforestation is clearing Earth's forests on a massive scale, often resulting in damage to the quality of the land. Forests still cover about 30 percent of the world’s land area, but swaths the size of Panama are lost each and every year. The world’s rain forests could completely vanish in a hundred years at the current rate of deforestation.
In the process, the great diversity of plants and animals in the rain forests is destroyed. Many conservationists consider deforestation the planet's greatest environmental problem. Clearly, the ultimate results are uncertain at this time. M ost of the tropical rain forests straddle the equator. One-third of the world's total is in the Amazon basin of Brazil. Rain forests usually experience high humidity and daily rainfall.
Severe flooding is a result of deforestation because removal of the forest leaves little vegetative cover to hold heavy rains. The inability of land void of forest to hold heavy rain water will also trigger mudslides like the ones that have occurred in recent years in California, China and other parts of the world. In a healthy forest about three fourth of the intercepted water is returned to the atmosphere as moisture laden air masses which move inland, cool and are converted to rain. Land cleared by deforestation returns only about one fourth of the rain water to the atmosphere.