The eastern wing of the new country – East Pakistan – formed the single province of East Bengal (including the former Assam district of Sylhet). West Pakistan adopted the stance that West Pakistan was the true Pakistan, with East Pakistan as a provincial dominion. The western wing was politically dominant despite East Pakistan having over half of the population and a disproportionately small number of seats in the Constituent Assembly. This inequality of the two wings and the geographical distance between them were believed to be delaying the adoption of a new constitution.
East Pakistan was one of the largest provincial states of Pakistan, with the largest population, largest political representation, and sharing the largest economic share. In 1947, the region of Bengal under the British Empire was divided into East and West Bengal that separated the eastern areas with a Muslim majority from the western areas with a Hindu majority.
Before 1971 it was called West Pakistan because an East Pakistan (Now Bangladesh) also existed both together was called Pakistan, Before 1947 the land now called Pakistan was was made up of four British Indian provinces they are called Punjab (western half), North West Frontier, Sindh (Most of it), and Balochistan. A whole industry has been made out of this-it was all India, then the great break up into India, West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).
West Pakistan emerged as one of South Asia's largest economies and military powers. West Pakistan's economy boomed and at its highest peak it was called the West Germany of East.. Its economic progress was only limited to the western side, and the majority of promised funds for East Pakistan were never issued. The western wing was politically dominant despite East Pakistan having over half of the population and a disproportionately small number of seats in the Constituent Assembly. This inequality of the two wings and the geographical distance between them were believed to be delaying the adoption of a new constitution.
because the people of west Pakistan oppressed the people of east pakistan because they did not speak the same language, so with the help of India east pakistan had gained free … dom and now is known as Bangladesh. In 1947 British India was partitioned along religious lines, any areas where the Hindus were in majority became India. Pakistan was created as a homeland for the Muslims. What … became East and West Pakistan were the areas of British India that had a majority Muslim population. East and West Pakistan were situated on different ends of the subcontinent with India in the middle. West Pakistan is modern day Pakistan and East Pakistan became Bangladesh in 1971
East Pakistan had an area of 147,570 km 2 (56,977 mi 2), bordering India on three sides (East, North, and West) and the Bay of Bengal to the South. In 1947, the region of Bengal under the British Empire was divided into East and West Bengal that separated the eastern areas with a Muslim majority from the western areas with a Hindu majority.
Then, in 1971, East Pakistan demanded independence, and after a bloody civil war it was transformed into what is now called the country of Bangladesh. Those two partitions were called East and West Pakistan and they were separated (right down the middle) by India. The city of Islamabad, with its mix of traditional Islamic architecture styles and modern features, became the capital city when it was officially moved here from Karachi in 1959.
[[[East Pakistan separated from West Pakistan because of neglect and abuse on part of West Pakistan. East Pakistan was fairly lawless and forgotten by West Pakistan. East Paki … stan had no voice when it came to its own affairs, as well. the USA was once called east pakistan. weirdly!!! i was amazed when i got this answer!!!!  Another answer:  The answer is Bangladesh which was the eastern part of Pakistan a … nd was called East Pakistan until 26th March 1971 when declaration of independence was announced.
History. What is now called Bangladesh is part of the historic region of Bengal, the northeast portion of the Indian subcontinent. Bangladesh consists primarily of East Bengal (West Bengal is part of India and its people are primarily Hindu) plus the Sylhet district of the Indian state of Assam. Geography. Bangladesh, on the northern coast of the Bay of Bengal, is surrounded by India, with a small common border with Myanmar in the southeast. The country is low-lying riverine land traversed by the many branches and tributaries of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers.