However, each Prevagen capsule holds only 10mg of active ingredient. You can see this information on the Prevagen label pictured here: http://www.prevagen.com/files/bottle-ingredients.jpg Apoaequorin is a calcium-binding protein is thought to help improve brain health and extend the life of individual brain cells. 
With the natural aging process, the body generates that protein in lesser amounts. Prevagen is a supplement that promotes the better health of the brain and its functions. The product focuses on improving memory loss and protecting the brain by supplying it with a protein called apoaequorin. This protein belongs to a family of molecules that binds calcium
Prevagen contains the following: 1  The active ingredient is apoaequorin, which is the protein component of aequorin. 2  Aequorin is a protein that is isolated from luminescent jellyfish. 3  According to the manufacturer, the apoaequorin helps the brain use calcium to boost its efficiency. The Science Behind Prevagen. The aequorin in Prevagen is a calcium-binding protein. There is some evidence that too much calcium crossing the protein barrier in your brain may lead to cell death, which can cause impaired memory. Enter the calcium-binding protein.
Prevagen (Pronounced: prev-uh-gen) is a new brain health supplement and functions unlike other brain or memory supplements.* Prevagen’s patented ingredient is a new use for a well-known protein called “apoaequorin” which was originally found in a certain species of jellyfish. The main ingredient in Prevagen® is “ apoaequorin ”, which was originally discovered in jellyfish. Prevagen® is now made in a controlled scientific process developed by university researchers and scientists in Madison, Wisconsin.
Email Prevagen to a friend. Products related to Prevagen. Prevagen is the research discovery that protects your brain cells by replenishing the important proteins your body loses in the aging process*. Prevagen is giving hope to thousands of people over 40 who have seen their mental sharpness fade over time. Prevagen (apoaequorin) replaces these proteins in the body and helps protect our cells during this natural process of again. Originally discovered in jellyfish, Prevagen is now made in a controlled scientific process, so no jellyfish are harmed. Our brains contain Calcium-Binding Proteins that protect our brain cells.
The makers of Prevagen claim that we lose about 85,000 brain cells every day. As we lose brain cells, our brain produces less and less Apoeaquroin, which is a unique protein responsible for memory and focus. Prevagen is an Apoaequorin supplement that promises to replenish your body’s supply of the protein. 
Prevagen is a memory aid manufactured by Quincy Bioscience. It supplements a protein that diminishes in the aging process. Prevagen is clinically shown to improve memory over a 90 day period. It supports a healthy brain, sharper mind and clearer thinking*. Prevagen is America’s number one selling brain health product (according to Nielsen data, April 2015) because it works. Welcome to PrevagenOutlet.com, where you will find the best price on all Prevagen products. Prevagen is a unique brain health shown to improve memory and support healthy brain function, a sharper mind and clearer thinking.* Prevagen is 100% manufactured in the USA.
218 adults over 40 years old participated in the three month study. Prevagen significantly improved learning and word recall.* Clinically tested and shown to improve mild memory problems that occur in aging.*. As we age, the body’s ability to naturally produce this protein slows down. 