But not that easy, you can get a click from your site. Because you have to compete with thousands of other sites that also register on Google Adsense. And one that can compete with google is just Facebook. Yes! you will be using Facebook as a tool to get a lot of money from Google Adsense. Google Adsense is an advertising program from Google that will pay you, when your site visitors, clicking on ads from google, that were placed on your site. With AdSense for content, these ads you display on your site can be either cost-per-click (CPC) or cost-per-thousand-impression (CPM) ads.
Facebook has an opportunity to get a lot more advertising revenue by displaying ads on other websites like Google AdSense. Facebook knows who are visiting sites that use like box, Facebook Connect or other social plugins. This gives them an opportunity to target ads at specific audiences. 
Get more value from your online content. Get started now Or, contact sales. AdSense is a free, simple way to earn money by displaying targeted ads next to your online content. With AdSense, you can show relevant and engaging ads to your site visitors and even customize the look and feel of ads to match your website. 
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Google AdSense enables you to serve targeted ads on your websites or apps to a wide array of end users. AdSense is used across a variety of Web products and social networking sites like Facebook and Google Plus. You can use a small snippet of JavaScript placed in an HTML file to serve Google AdSense ads on your pages and apps. Google AdSense and Facebook have different terms of service, so operating properly under both will help keep your accounts in good standing. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The only sites where you can place Google Adsense ads are websites that you control, that is, you have access to alter and create webpages. For example, if you host a personal blog on Blogger, you can ad Adsense, but if you have a Facebook page, you cannot include Adsense ads there. You do not have access to alter to basic structure of Facebook's pages
You can now post your AdSense code on your Facebook page or app. Facebook Developers can use the iFrame tool to build apps that run in HTML, JavaScript or CSS. To get your AdSense ads displaying on a page tab or app, you will need to insert the Javascript code snippet into a new iFrame Facebook app. Once set up, you can begin advertising via Google's third-party ad platform, reaching Facebook's large user database
No you can't use Google ads in facebook but there are other ways, 01. Your own website or blog 02. Revenue sharing sites / forums 03. Domain parking sites The best way is having your own site or a blog. You can create a free blog in Blogger.com and join adsense. its the easist and the best way. 
Maximize revenue from your online content. Google AdSense is a free program that empowers online publishers to earn revenue by displaying relevant ads on a wide variety of online content, including: Site search results. Easily add a custom search engine to your site, and earn from ads on the search results pages. Websites. 