Note that survivorship curves must be plotted on a log scale to compare with idealized Type I, II, and III curves; they will look different on a linear scale. The use of a log scale better allows a focus on per capita effects rather than the actual number of individuals dying.
Types of Survivorship Curves. A survivorship curve is a graph that measures the proportion of individuals in a given species that are alive at different ages. Typically, the number of individuals of the population is plotted on the y-axis of the graph and the age of survivorship is plotted on the x-axis of the graph. There are three types of survivorship curves and they are simply referred to as type I, type II, and type III. A type I survivorship curve shows individuals that have a high probability of surviving through early and middle life but have a rapid decline in the number of individuals surviving into late life.
Type I: Convex. The line of the Type I survivorship curve begins high on the graph and continues across all young and middle-age groups. It indicates a low death rate of young and middle-aged individuals. A large proportion of individuals of each age survive to the next age; thus, a large proportion live to old age.
There are three types of survivorship curves. Type I curves depict individuals that have a high probability of surviving to adulthood. Type II curves depict individuals whose chance of survival is independent of age.
There are three general classes of survivorship curves, illustrated above. 1. Type I curves are typical of populations in which most mortality occurs among the elderly (e.g., humans in developed countries). 2. Type II curves occur when mortality is not dependent on age (e.g., many species of large birds and fish).
Type I: Type I survivorship curves are characterized by high survival in early and middle life, followed a rapid decline in survivorship in later life. Type II: Type II curves are an intermediate between Type I and III, where roughly constant mortality rate is experienced regardless of age.
Three types of Survivorship Curves-Type I survivorship curves are for species that have a high survival rate of the young, live out most of their expected life span and die in old age. Humans are a good example of a species with a Type I survivorship curve.