And this (Original post by musama91) I would like to apply about the possibility of (?????) a work experience placement with your hospital during the week 20 – 24 July 2009. you definitely need to change it.
Tell them you are seeking a brief 1-2 weeks work experience attachment to see how the doctors do their work and what is involved in the day to day running of the hospital. Keep your request general at this stage. Do not ask for specifics. 3.
Writing a medicine work experience letter is a necessary evil of applying for medical work experience in the UK.
Dear [very important person], By kind recommendation from [my doctor] of the Orthopaedic Outpatients Department at [hospital], I have been given your contact details by the Education Department. I have attached my application letter for a work experience placement in this email.
Use standard letter writing techniques, so place you name and contact details on the upper right-hand side of the letter, and the name and address of the hospital or surgery on the left. Try and address the letter to a named person such as the hospital or surgery manager or doctor you wish to work for.
Dear Persons name or Sir/Madam, I would like to enquire about the possibility of a work experience placement within your hospital during the week 20 – 24 July 2009. I am 17 and a student at Sutton Grammar School for Boys. I am studying A level’s in Biology, Chemistry, Critical Thinking, DT Graphics and Maths.
At the end of the post I’ll attach a hospital work experience request letter to help you get things right without wasting time. 1. Call the hospital switchboard. Call the switchboard and (usually after waiting half an hour) ask the operator to speak to the work experience coordinator.
Medicine work experience Letter. Mark Hinksman. Writing a medicine work experience letter is a necessary evil of applying for medical work experience in the UK. Work experience is an essential part of training for anybody seeking a career in the healthcare industry.