From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Income Protection Insurance (IPI) is an insurance policy, available principally in Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa, and the United Kingdom, paying benefits to policyholders who are incapacitated and hence unable to work due to illness or accident. 
1 Maximum Monthly Benefit-You are eligible to apply for coverage based on the Income Protection formula: first $5,000 of monthly earned income at 60%, next $5,000 at 50%, next $5,000 at 35%, excess at 25% up to $15,000 maximum benefit. 2  Age-Age is attained age at policy anniversary date. 
There are income protection insurance age limits that dictate your eligibility for coverage. In most cases, this type of cover is available to individuals between age 18 and 59. However, some insurers will allow you to apply for coverage until you are 64 years. Although the income protection insurance age limits may make it more difficult for older buyers to obtain coverage against loss of income, this does not mean that it is impossible. You should compare income protection insurance products from different insurers to identify the best policy with the best possible terms.
Income Protection is designed to help you get back on your feet, covering 75% of your monthly income up to $10,000/month if you’re unable work due to sickness or injury. Read More. You can choose the monthly benefit to apply for up to a maximum of 75% of your taxable monthly earnings, up to $10,000 per month for Income Protection and $4,000 per month for optional redundancy cover... The waiting period is the amount of time that has to pass before your benefit payments start
Each income protection policy has its own definition of disability and range of benefits. Income protection usually offers cover for up to 75% of your gross wages for a maximum time period (e.g. 2 years or to age 60). Income protection policies may be stepped or level, make sure you understand what sort of policy you are getting. Bob wanted additional income protection insurance so he paid more money through his super fund to get the maximum cover. After realising he had 10 weeks of annual and sick leave up his sleeve, he opted for a 3-month waiting period to reduce his premium.
Benefit period. It should also be noted that income protection benefits are only applicable for the period you are expected to work. As such, the longest benefit period in most cases is your retirement age, usually 65 years, or the anniversary of the policy after your 65th birthday. Although the income protection insurance age limits may make it more difficult for older buyers to obtain coverage against loss of income, this does not mean that it is impossible. You should compare income protection insurance products from different insurers to identify the best policy with the best possible terms.
How much Income Protection insurance you require depends on a number of different factors. The maximum you can insure yourself for is 75% of your gross income. Premiums for Income Protection are generally tax deductible. However, tax is payable on benefit payments. Benefit periods. The benefit period is the period during which you receive your income protection payments. You can generally choose between a two or five year benefit period or up to age 70 for some occupations.
See our income protection comparison for help on getting the best salary protection possible.. Most Income Protection Insurance products will specify a minimum and maximum age at which you can apply. The minimum age is normally 18 and the maximum usually extends to an average retirement age-around 60 years old. 