cultured diamonds. Lab created diamonds, also known as cultured diamonds, are grown in highly controlled laboratory environments using advanced technological processes that duplicate the conditions under which diamonds naturally develop when they form in the mantle, beneath the Earth’s crust. LAB CREATED DIAMONDS versus DIAMOND SIMULANTS. It is important to note the vast distinction between lab created diamonds and diamond simulants. Lab created diamonds are man-made diamonds that consist of actual carbon atoms arranged in the characteristic diamond crystal structure.
The appearance of synthetic gems on the market created major concerns in the diamond trading business, as a result of which special spectroscopic devices and techniques have been developed to distinguish synthetic and natural diamonds. Synthetic diamond is also widely known as HPHT diamond or CVD diamond after the two common production methods (referring to the high-pressure high-temperature and chemical vapor deposition crystal formation methods, respectively).
Diamonds are made out of carbon — highly organized carbon, that is. Geologists are still guessing how diamonds formed in the Earth from 1 billion to 3 billion years ago, according to a recent study in the journal Nature, but they think the recipe follows something like this: 1. Bury carbon dioxide 100 miles into Earth. 2. Heat to about 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit
In addition to being able to obtain a created diamond for a fraction of the price, the creation of a lab diamond does not harm humans, animals, or the precious environment. Another great advantage of created diamonds is that they can be cut even more proportionally, as compared to the mined gems. Even then, the experts find it difficult to detect because created diamonds are identical gemologically. What this means is that the created diamonds are certified to be chemically and optically identical to their earth mined counterparts.
The primary differences between created diamonds and natural diamonds are price and environmental impact. While lab diamonds are identical to earth mined diamonds; same timeless beauty, fire, brilliance, unique colors, hardness and quality; purchasing a created diamond can be easy on the wallet and the environment. Even then, the experts find it difficult to detect because created diamonds are identical gemologically. What this means is that the created diamonds are certified to be chemically and optically identical to their earth mined counterparts.
Search For Lab Created Diamonds. Lab-grown diamonds, also known as cultured diamonds, are composed of the same chemical crystal as natural diamonds and exhibit the same fire, scintillation, and sparkle. Cultured diamonds are produced using a technological innovation that yields diamonds of exceptionally high quality and purity. 
Shares & Saves. Save. A lab-created diamond, also known as a cultured diamond, is a clear gemstone that has been created by replicating the same conditions under which a diamond is made naturally. This involves putting pure carbon under enormous amounts of pressure and heat until it crystallizes. Lab-created diamonds were first produced in 1954 by General Electric. Their method involved subjecting carbon to 400 tons of pressure. Scientists could at first only synthesize dust or very small stones, which were better suited for purposes such as tipping drill bits than for setting in jewelry.
Synthetic diamonds of various colors grown by the high-pressure high-temperature technique. Synthetic diamond (also known as cultured diamond or cultivated diamond) is diamond produced in an artificial process, as opposed to natural diamonds, which are created by geological processes. Synthetic diamond is also widely known as HPHT diamond or CVD diamond after the two common production methods (referring to the high-pressure high-temperature and chemical vapor deposition crystal formation methods, respectively).