Part of the definition, in my mind, is that this mutation is not present in every cell of the body. Somatic mutations are typically identified by comparing the sequence of a particular pool of DNA-- let's say DNA extracted from a lung tumor-- to DNA thought to be representative of the germline DNA.
Somatic evolution is the accumulation of mutations in the cells of a body during a lifetime, and the effects of those mutations on the fitness of those cells. Somatic evolution is important in the process of aging as well as the development of some diseases, including cancer.
Definitions. 1  a mutation occurring in a somatic cell, resulting in a change in the morphology or some other aspect of one part of an organism (usually a plant).oun. 1  a mutation occurring in a somatic cell, resulting in a change in the morphology or some other aspect of one part of an organism (usually a plant). 2  It may be maintained by vegetative propagation but not by sexual reproduction.
Alterations in DNA that occur after conception. Somatic mutations can occur in any of the cells of the body except the germ cells (sperm and egg) and therefore are not passed on to children. These alterations can (but do not always) cause cancer or other diseases.
Medical Definition of MUTATION. 1. : a relatively permanent change in hereditary material involving either a physical change in chromosome relations or a biochemical change in the codons that make up genes; also: the process of producing a mutation.2. : an individual, strain, or trait resulting from mutation.
Medical Definition of SOMATIC MUTATION. : a mutation occurring in a somatic cell and inducing a chimera. What made you want to look up somatic mutation?
mutation. 1. a permanent transmissible change in the genetic material. 2. an individual exhibiting such a change. point mutation a mutation resulting from a change in a single base pair in the DNA molecule. somatic mutation a genetic mutation occurring in a somatic cell, providing the basis for mosaicism.suppressor mutation the correction of the effect of a mutation at one locus by a mutation at another locus.
1 a mutation occurring in a somatic cell, resulting in a change in the morphology or some other aspect of one part of an organism (usually a plant). 2  It may be maintained by vegetative propagation but not by sexual reproduction.oun. 1
noun. 1  a mutation occurring in a somatic cell, resulting in a change in the morphology or some other aspect of one part of an organism (usually a plant). 2  It may be maintained by vegetative propagation but not by sexual reproduction.
n. 1. (Botany) a mutation occurring in a somatic cell, resulting in a change in the morphology or some other aspect of one part of an organism (usually a plant). It may be maintained by vegetative propagation but not by sexual reproduction.1  Facebook.