In men, testosterone production commences at puberty, when the pituitary gland in the brain begins producing hormones called follicle stimulating hormone (which primarily stimulates sperm production) and luteinising hormone (LH) . LH is the hormone which stimulates a man’s testes to produce testosterone. Cells in the testes called interstitial or Leydig cells, produce testosterone in response to the production of LH. Some 95% of a man’s testosterone is produced by Leydig cells. While testosterone is best known as a male hormone that maintains typically male characteristics of the body (e.g. facial hair), testosterone is produced by both male and female bodies. It fulfils important functions for both men and women, most prominently in regulating the sex drive.
Leydig Cells produce testosterone. They are interstitial cells that lie between the seminiferous tubules in the testes and release testosterone when stimulated by lutenising hormone (produced by the pituitary gland.).
Testosterone is a male sex hormone that is important for sexual and reproductive development. The National Institutes of Health regards testosterone as the most important male hormone. Women also produce testosterone, but at lower levels than men. Testosterone belongs to a class of male hormones called androgens, which are sometimes called steroids or anabolic steroids. In men, testosterone is produced mainly in the testes, with a small amount made in the adrenal glands. The brain's hypothalamus and pituitary gland control testosterone production
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is found in humans and other vertebrates. In humans and other mammals, testosterone is secreted primarily by the testicles of males and, to a lesser extent, the ovaries of females. Small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands. It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic steroid. On average, in adult males, levels of testosterone are about 7–8 times as great as in adult females. As the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater, the daily production is about 20 times greater in men. Females are also more sensitive to the hormone
The pituitary gland then relays signals to the testes to produce testosterone. A feedback loop closely regulates the amount of hormone in the blood. When testosterone levels rise too high, the brain sends signals to the pituitary to reduce production. Small amounts of the hormone are produced in the adrenal glands in both sexes. Structure and Physical Characteristics. Testosterone is comprised of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The molecular weight of testosterone is 288.4 and the chemical name of the hormone is 17beta-Hydroxyandrost-4-en-3-one.
Testicles (testes) — The testes are oval organs about the size of very large olives that lie in the scrotum, secured at either end by a structure called the spermatic cord. Most men have two testes. The testes are responsible for making testosterone, the primary male sex hormone, and for generating sperm. 
It also causes the testes to produce sperm, making a male reproductively capable. In short, during puberty, testosterone leads to development of what are called the masculine secondary sex characteristics, where primary sex characteristics are the testes and sex organs. Small amounts of the hormone are produced in the adrenal glands in both sexes. Structure and Physical Characteristics. Testosterone is comprised of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The molecular weight of testosterone is 288.4 and the chemical name of the hormone is 17beta-Hydroxyandrost-4-en-3-one.
Testosterone Production in the Body. by Chris Steidle, MD. Testosterone, which is produced in the body by the male testes, influences men physically, emotionally and sexually. Sometimes called the king of hormones, testosterone is certainly the most important hormone when it comes to sexual characteristics in men. advertisement. Testosterone production in the body. This important hormone is produced mainly in the testes in males (more than 95 percent) and in the ovaries in females; however, small amounts are made in the outer layer of the adrenal glands in both sexes.
Structure and Functions of Testosterone in Men. Testosterone is the most important hormone determining sexual characteristics in males. Testosterone determines whether a baby will develop into a girl or a boy. In males, testosterone is primarily produced in the testes. Small amounts of the hormone are produced in the adrenal glands in both sexes. Structure and Physical Characteristics. Testosterone is comprised of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. The molecular weight of testosterone is 288.4 and the chemical name of the hormone is 17beta-Hydroxyandrost-4-en-3-one.