A polis (plural: poleis) was the typical structure of a community in the ancient Greek world. A polis consisted of an urban centre, often fortified and with a sacred centre built on a natural acropolis or harbour, which controlled a surrounding territory (chora) of land. Like a state, each polis was also involved in international affairs, both with other poleis and non-Greek states in the areas of trade, political alliances and wars.
Definition: The polis (plural, poleis) was the ancient Greek city-state. The word politics comes from this Greek word. In the ancient world, the polis was a nucleus, the central urban area that could also have controlled the surrounding countryside. (The word polis could also refer to the city's body of citizens.) This surrounding countryside (chora or ge) could also be considered part of the polis. Also Known As: city-state. Examples: The polis of Athens, the largest of the Greek poleis, was the birthplace of democracy. Aristotle saw the household oikos as the basic social unit of the polis, according to J. Roy.
Definition. Polis (the plural is poleis) is a term that is used to describe a tight knit small community of Ancient Greek citizens who agreed on certain rules and customs. Usually a polis was centered on a small town and the countryside the surrounded it
Also found in: Dictionary/thesaurus, Legal, Wikipedia. (plural, poleis), the city-state, a special form of socioeconomic and political organization typical of ancient Greece and Italy. The polis consisted of the territory occupied by the city proper and the surrounding farming settlements (choroi). 
It can also mean citizenship and body of citizens. In modern historiography, polis is normally used to indicate the ancient Greek city-states, like Classical Athens and its contemporaries, and thus is often translated as  city-state . The body of citizens came to be the most important meaning of the term polis in ancient Greece. The Greek term that specifically meant the totality of urban buildings and spaces is ἄστυ (. [asty]). ásty
It is common practice to refer to the Greek polis [plural, poleis] as the Greek city-state. This translation is misleading because the ancient Greek polis really shares few common features with a modern city; in fact, the differences are much greater in number and of far greater significance than the similarities. The differences are even greater when we compare the Greek polis and the modern nation 
The term polis has, therefore, been translated as ‘ city-state ’ as there was typically only one city and because an individual polis was independent from other poleis in terms of political, judicial, legal, religious and social institutions and practices, each polis was in effect a state. Like a state, each polis was also involved in international affairs, both with other poleis and non-Greek states in the areas of trade, political alliances and wars.
Acropolis (as in the Athenian Acropolis) is not THE city. The ancient greek name for city was polis. Acropolis literally translates to the edge of the city. It's a part of the city where people would gather to shelter themselves in cases of emergency, such as an approaching enemy. Usually, it was also a place of worship. Source(s): Native Greek. 
Polis (/ˈpɒlɨs/ ; Greek: πόλις [polis]), pólis plural (/poleis/ , ˈpɒleɪz [πόλεις]) poleːs póleːs literally means City. In greek it can also mean citizenship and body. of citizens The body of citizens came to be the most important meaning of the term polis in ancient Greece. The Greek term that specifically meant the totality of urban buildings and spaces is ἄστυ (. [asty]). ásty
Polis is the Greek word for a city-state, that is a tract of  farmland on which was built a city and its protective fortress  (acro-polis = high city, that is the fortress o … n a hill, around  which the city came to be built). It was independent-self ruled -  which is why the term city-state is used. Answered. Confidence votes 23. A polis is a Greek city-state. Instead of having a united country, the Greeks were divided into large, independent cities with their own governments and people. Some of the more famous poleis are Athens, Sparta, Corinth, Thebes, and Argos. Poleis were originally ruled by heredity kings.