Malagasy cuisine encompasses the many diverse culinary traditions of the Indian Ocean island of Madagascar. The advent of the trans-Atlantic slave trade increased maritime trade at Malagasy ports, including food products. In 1698, a trading vessel en route to the American colonies stopped first at Madagascar, where it obtained a stock of local Malagasy rice.
The food of Madagascar is tasty and delicious, but too much spice is avoided. A dish made from rice is accompanied by vegetables and curries. The simplicity of Madagascar food adds to the charm of the dishes. The beverage made from burning rice, Ranonapango, is served with Madagascar food. It is a tradition in Madagascar to serve meals when they are steaming hot. Cold food is not so popular among the people of Madagascar. Amongst the specialities of Madagascar cuisine, Ro and Ravitoto rank high in the order. Ro is made by mixing rice with herbs and fragrant leaves.
Since Madagascar gained independence from French colonial rule in 1960, Malagasy cuisine has reflected the island's diverse cultures and historic influences. Throughout the country, rice is considered the preeminent food and constitutes the main staple of the diet in all but the most arid regions of the south and west. The advent of the trans-Atlantic slave trade increased maritime trade at Malagasy ports, including food products. In 1698, a trading vessel en route to the American colonies stopped first at Madagascar, where it obtained a stock of local Malagasy rice.
Madagascar has various agricultural resources which are used in the traditional cuisine, such as: manioc, nutmeg and various spices, banana trees, vanilla and coffee plantations, but the breeding of cattle is a spread custom, as well. The Indian influences in the Madagascar cuisine refer mostly to the curried meats and aliments, to the wide range of spices and aromas and to sweeter tastes of the complex dishes. The Malay people also brought the curries and the chutneys, but also pickled fish and fish stews and curried meats, like Pork or Lamb.
Madagascar Food reflects the culinary interests of people belonging to various cultures, such as the Arabs, the Indonesians, the African, the French, and so on. The traditions of the ethnic groups of Madagascar have also played a major part in the evolution of Madagascar food. A traditional meal of Madagascar is eaten sitting on the floor. The food items are served in a single plate and eaten with a spoon. It is a tradition in Madagascar to serve meals when they are steaming hot. Cold food is not so popular among the people of Madagascar. Amongst the specialities of Madagascar cuisine, Ro and Ravitoto rank high in the order. Ro is made by mixing rice with herbs and fragrant leaves.
At first glance, the cuisine of Madagascar can appear quite dull. Traditionally the Malagasy eat a large mound of rice, dwarfing the surprisingly small accompanying portion of meat, vegetables and sauce. Tourist establishments tend to serve meals with the rice-to-accompaniment ratio turned on its head. Zebu (beef) steaks are usually excellent and most commonly served with a delicious creamy green peppercorn sauce. On the coast, seafood naturally predominates, including all manner of fish, as well as lobster and shellfish. Pizza is popular everywhere.
Madagascar food uses a variety of ingredients that are are grown on the island. The various species of edible plants growing in Madagascar lends some of the most important parts of the meal, the fruits and vegetables. Fish and poultry also feature as ingredients of a meal. It is a tradition in Madagascar to serve meals when they are steaming hot. Cold food is not so popular among the people of Madagascar. Amongst the specialities of Madagascar cuisine, Ro and Ravitoto rank high in the order. Ro is made by mixing rice with herbs and fragrant leaves.
Rice forms the staple of the Madagascar diet and is used in dozens of ways in savoury and sweet preparations. The melting pot of African, Arabic, French and Indian cooking styles, Malagasy cuisine uses plenty of spices to create a fragrant, rich and exotic new cuisine. The Malagasy cuisine takes full advantage of the country’s rich bounty of fresh fish, fruits and vegetables. The standard Malagasy diet is a varied one, usually comprising of heaps of rice topped with beef, pork, chicken, crab, fish, corn, peanuts and potatoes.
Malagasy cuisine blends the influences of the Arabic, Chinese, French, African and Indian cultures present in Madagascar. Of course, there are regional variations-each zone has very different vegetables, fruits and fish available and ingredients on hand command local recipes. Rice is breakfast food everywhere in Madagascar. In fact, rice for breakfast, lunch and dinner is a wholly normal food day. Eating rice is rooted so deep in the land some people will claim they were not be able to sleep the day they did not have a meal of rice.