Pros: free cinema tickets. Cons: 0 hour contracts. If one were to work in Showcase Cinemas it would be recommended as a part-time job as opposed to a career. The daily tasks which are entailed within the job are repetitive and tedious, whilst the management provide no means of motivation. I loved working for Showcase Cinemas. I loved the people that I worked with, I enjoyed my job and took pride in it. All the staff pulled together as a team and we had a great atmosphere most of the time.
Event Cinema is offered at select Showcase Cinemas theater locations and allows guests to view live events on the movie screen. Experience live boxing matches, concerts from top musical artists, the Metropolitan Opera, Royal Ballet, and more from the comfort of your nearest Showcase Cinemas. To see what events are coming to your area and to purchase tickets, browse our Event Cinema page. Director's Hall Plus is a new way for guests 21+ to enjoy the movies at select Showcase Cinemas. It features reserved seating, bar service in the auditorium, in-seat dining service prior to the show and delicious menu options. Valid ID is required. Read more.
You can purchase and print your tickets at home for the following cinemas: 1  Showcase Bluewater. 2  Showcase Cinema de Lux, Cabot Circus, Bristol. 3  Showcase Bristol Avonmeads. 4  Showcase Cinema de Lux, Westfield, Derby. 5  Showcase Dudley. 6  Showcase Glasgow. 7  Showcase Leeds. 8  Showcase Cinema de Lux, Highcross, Leicester. Once your transaction is complete, your ticket will pop up in its own window and you can print it. When you arrive at the cinema go straight to the usher taking tickets who will scan the bar code on your ticket. The bar code on the ticket denotes the number of admissions purchased.
Showcase XPlus is our proprietary large format auditorium featuring Dolby Atmos™ sound and the most advanced digital projection and screen technology. XPlus offers a premium cinema experience with immersive sound, crystal clear projection and reserved seating. Director's Hall Plus is a new way for guests 21+ to enjoy the movies at select Showcase Cinemas. It features reserved seating, bar service in the auditorium, in-seat dining service prior to the show and delicious menu options. Valid ID is required. Read more.
No one younger than 12 may see a ‘12A’ film in a cinema unless accompanied by an adult, and films classified ‘12A’ are not recommended for a child below 12. An adult may take a younger child if, in their judgement, the film is suitable for that particular child. Once your transaction is complete, your ticket will pop up in its own window and you can print it. When you arrive at the cinema go straight to the usher taking tickets who will scan the bar code on your ticket. The bar code on the ticket denotes the number of admissions purchased.
BUY TICKETS. Purchase your tickets for any Showcase or Showcase Cinema de Lux location and reserve seating for Lux Level or Director’s Halls directly from the app. When you arrive at the theatre, simply select your ticket on your phone, present the barcode to the Showcase usher to be scanned, and you’re good to go! iTunes is the world's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To download the free app Showcase US by Showcase Cinemas, get iTunes now.
1 Cinemark is also very proud to boast that many of our Theatre Management team members come directly from the Theatre Staff. 2  Join our team today, you never know what exciting opportunities may await you! Join Our Team. Theatre staff members perform numerous tasks including selling tickets and food items to maintaining the cleanliness of our locations. Actual positions vary from theatre-to-theatre and include Ushers, Box Office Cashiers and Food & Beverage workers.
The Showcase Cinemas Mobile App has everything you need for a great movie-going experience. Find a movie, buy tickets, reserve seating, sign up for rewards and share with friends like never before. Download now and skip the line on your next Showcase visit! FIND A MOVIE. Use the app to find movies, view trailers, see movie details, find showtimes and get theatre info and directions. iTunes is the world's easiest way to organize and add to your digital media collection. We are unable to find iTunes on your computer. To download the free app Showcase US by Showcase Cinemas, get iTunes now.