Tribal Tattoo Meaning. The tattoo style known as “tribal” has a long tradition that spans back over thousands of years. It began as a style that was unique to a particular culture or tribe to set them apart from other local groups. It was also used as a way to express one’s religion of beliefs.
The Meaning of Borneo Tribal Tattoos. Traditional Borneo tribal tattoos are thick black spirals and circles similar to what we call tribal tattoo in the modern western world today. However, the original Borneo tribal tattoo was focusing on nature designs like animals, trees, fruits, and leaves ...
As soon as someone says “ tribal tattoos ” odds are most of you already have an image of that person in your mind. It’s also very likely that you don’t think highly of the mental image you’ve conjured at the mention of a tribal tattoo.
The tribal tattoo as we know it today is a result of tribal tattoos which belong to these ancient tribes. Modern tribal tattoo designs are probably most similar to the ancient tribal tattoos of Borneo and fuse with other tribal tattoo designs. Here are some of the most influential tribal tattoos and their meanings:
Tribal Butterfly Tattoo Ideas. Through the whole spectrum of meanings to simple enjoyment of the beautiful geometry of tribal shapes, these tattoos and their symbolism can be found in every populated part of the world that has an ancient tribal history.
The Meaning of the Haida Tribal Tattoo. Haida tattoos are another form of tribal tattoos originating in the northwest coast area of the American continent. Haida tattoos are worn by men and women of the native Indian tribes ...
Tribal tattoos hold the mantle of being the first tattoo designs to ever grace the face of the Earth, and their origins can be traced back to various tribes in North America, South America, Africa, Europe, Japan, New Zealand, Cambodia, Taiwan, and Philippines.
Sun tattoos are popular among both men and women and is one of the most attractive tattoo designs. There are a number of varieties and variations to choose from and, and you can even try it on your own. You can pull influences from religious and tribal symbols as well as the Sun represents belief in divinity.