Reverse-Buffalo. The popular Indian Head, or Buffalo, five-cent coin (nickel) was introduced in 1913. Designed by James Earle Fraser, a student of legendary sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens, the Indian Head/Buffalo nickel design showcases the native beauty of the American West.
Reader Dusty Farmer sent the following question: I have a Buffalo Nickel with no date on it, and I was wondering if you could tell me the year it was made and how much it is worth. I looked on a lot of Web sites that said there are Buffalo Nickel key dates for the S and D Mint mark, but this nickel has an E on it.
The Buffalo Nickel was the successor of the Liberty Nickel, which had been minted for circulation from 1883 to 1912. The new nickel was designed by James Earle Fraser, who initially produced a number of pattern pieces at his studio.
If your coin has a Mint mark at all, it will be under the buffalo on the reverse (tails) side of the coin, below the words FIVE CENTS. If there is no letter there, the nickel was minted at the Philadelphia Mint. D stands for the Denver Mint, and S stands for the San Francisco Mint.
The obverse design for the Indian Head 5-cent coin, commonly called a Buffalo nickel, depicts a large, powerful portrait of an Indian, facing right. The appearance is rough looking, unlike the smooth cheeks and other facial features that typify the many versions of Lady Liberty that have been on U.S Coins.
by Keith Scott. The buffalo nickel (also known as the Indian head nickel) was produced from 1913 through 1938 and was designed by James Earle Fraser. It is actually a bison, not a buffalo, on the reverse but more on that later.
Depending on which digits are showing, the nickel can be worth anywhere from 50 cents (if the part showing is the first 2 or 3 digits) to about 20% of market value if the digits showing are the last 2 or 3 (thereby revealing the actual date the Buffalo Nickel was struck.).
Buffalo nickel values reflect the huge demand for this highly popular coin. Minted from 1913 through 1938, the Buffalo nickel has a particularly romantic lore attached to it, largely due to the fact that the coin has a rugged, all-American design, which was created by James Earle Fraser.