vitamin noun [C]. › biology any of a ​group of ​natural ​substances that are ​necessary in ​small ​amounts for ​growth and good ​health and that are ​obtained from ​food. (Definition of vitamin from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).
1 Vitamin B3: Niacin, an essential part of coenzymes of body metabolism. 2  Deficiency causes inflammation of the skin, vagina, rectum and mouth, as well as mental slowing. 3  Vitamin B6: Pyridoxine, a cofactor for enzymes. 4  Deficiency leads to inflammation of the skin and mouth, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, weakness and anemia. The one exception was vitamin K which was assigned its K from Koagulation by the Danish researcher Henrik Dam. 1  Vitamin A: Retinol. 2  Carotene compounds responsible for transmitting light sensation in the retina of the eye.
Definition of VITAMIN A. : any of several fat-soluble vitamins (as retinol) found especially in animal products (as egg yolk, milk, or fish-liver oils) or a mixture of them whose lack in the animal body causes epithelial tissues to become keratinous (as in the eye with resulting visual defects). See vitamin A defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
vitamin noun [C]. B2 any of a ​group of ​natural ​substances that are ​necessary in ​small ​amounts for the ​growth and good ​health of the ​body: a vitamin ​pill Oranges are ​full of vitamin C. More examples. 1  A ​ diet ​ deficient in vitamin D may ​ cause the ​ disease ​ rickets. › biology any of a ​group of ​natural ​substances that are ​necessary in ​small ​amounts for ​growth and good ​health and that are ​obtained from ​food. (Definition of vitamin from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).
Types and Examples of Foods. There are two types of vitamins: fat-soluble and water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in your fat cells, consequently requiring fat in order to be absorbed. Water-soluble vitamins are not stored in your body; therefore, they need to be replenished daily. Your body cannot produce vitamins itself, so you must get them through food you eat or in some cases supplements. There are 13 vitamins that are essential to your body working well. Knowledge of the different types and understanding the purpose of these vitamins are important for good health.
Vitamin A: Vitamin A is retinol. Carotene compounds (found, for example, in egg yolk, butter and cream) are gradually converted by the body to vitamin A (retinol). A form of vitamin A called retinal is responsible for transmitting light sensation in the retina of the eye. 
Vitamins: The word vitamin was coined in 1911 by the Warsaw-born biochemist Casimir Funk (1884-1967). At the Lister Institute in London, Funk isolated a substance that prevented nerve inflammation (neuritis) in chickens raised on a diet deficient in that substance. The one exception was vitamin K which was assigned its K from Koagulation by the Danish researcher Henrik Dam. 1  Vitamin A: Retinol. 2  Carotene compounds responsible for transmitting light sensation in the retina of the eye.
Some of the vitamins serve only one function in the body, while other vitamins serve a variety of unrelated functions. Therefore, some vitamin deficiencies tend to result in one type of defect, while other deficiencies result in a variety of problems. The energy components of the diet are sugars, starches, fats, and oils, and these occur in relatively large amounts in the diet. Most of the vitamins are closely associated with a corresponding vitamin deficiency disease.
noun. 1  Any of various fat-soluble or water-soluble organic substances that are essential in minute amounts for normal growth and activity of living organisms. 2  A preparation containing one or more vitamins, often taken as a dietary supplement. 
vitamins. 1. A group of substances that are essential in small amounts in the diet. 2. Essential nutrients needed in tiny amounts to prevent deficiency diseases.