If you are under 16 years of age, you cannot marry in the District of Columbia. Florida: If an individual is under 18 years of age, but older than 16 years of age, a marriage license can be obtained with parental consent. Best Answer: In the United States, all but two states require a couple be age 18 in order to marry without parental consent. Nebraska sets the age at 19 and Mississippi at 21 at the time of this writing (May 2003).
If you are 17 years old you must apply for the license with both parents (or the person with legal custody). They will need to sign the consent portion of the application. If you are 16 or 15 years old, you must petition the Circuit Court via a “Permission to Marry” form. A seventeen year old can be married if they have the parent’s or guardian’s consent (State Consent form needed). Pennsylvania. If under 18 years of age applicants may marry with consent of a parent or guardian. Applicants must present Birth Certificate plus an additional $5.00.
States set a minimum age for marriage and often require minors to get parental consent or court approval before getting married. For example, in order to get married in California, a minor must 1) be at least 14 years old, 2) be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, and 3) appear before the court. Emancipation by military enlistment. Minors can become emancipated by enlisting in the United States Armed Forces.
If you are under 16 years of age, you cannot get married. Indiana: A certified copy of your birth certificate is required. If you are 17 years old you must apply for the license with both parents (or the person with legal custody). They will need to sign the consent portion of the application. Best Answer: In the United States, all but two states require a couple be age 18 in order to marry without parental consent. Nebraska sets the age at 19 and Mississippi at 21 at the time of this writing (May 2003).
Arizona: If you are 16 or 17 years old, you must have the notarized consent of your parents or legal guardian. If you are under 16, you must have the notarized consent of your parents or legal guardian as well as a court order. Arkansas: Under 18 requires consent of both sets of parents. Best Answer: In the United States, all but two states require a couple be age 18 in order to marry without parental consent. Nebraska sets the age at 19 and Mississippi at 21 at the time of this writing (May 2003).
The age is 18, however those under 18 can be married if both sets of paretns consent. California. The age is 18, but if either the bride or groom is under 18, at least one of the minor’s parents must appear with the couple. Certified copies of birth certificates are required. A seventeen year old can be married if they have the parent’s or guardian’s consent (State Consent form needed). Pennsylvania. If under 18 years of age applicants may marry with consent of a parent or guardian. Applicants must present Birth Certificate plus an additional $5.00.
If you are under sixteen (16) years of age, you cannot marry in the District of Columbia. Florida: If a teen is under eighteen (18) years of age, but older than sixteen (16) years of age, a marriage license can be obtained with parental consent. In the United States, all but one state requires that a couple be 18 in order to marry without parental permission. Nebraska sets the age of majority at 19. Although a few states will waive this requirement if there is a pregnancy, teenage couples may still have to have court approval.
For example, in New Mexico the legal age of consent is 16 but the minimum age for marriage is 18. Another extreme example of a great difference between age of consent and marriage age is Mississippi, where the age of consent is 16 but both members of a couple must be 21 years old to marry. A seventeen year old can be married if they have the parent’s or guardian’s consent (State Consent form needed). Pennsylvania. If under 18 years of age applicants may marry with consent of a parent or guardian. Applicants must present Birth Certificate plus an additional $5.00.
Arizona: If you are 16 or 17 years old, you must have the notarized consent of your parents or legal guardian. If you are under sixteen (16), you must have the notarized consent of your parents or legal guardian as well as a court order. Arkansas: Parental consent is needed if under eighteen (18) years of age. In the United States, all but one state requires that a couple be 18 in order to marry without parental permission. Nebraska sets the age of majority at 19. Although a few states will waive this requirement if there is a pregnancy, teenage couples may still have to have court approval.