The most com-mon symptom of whiplash is neck pain. The most common cause is a motor vehicle accident (MVA). In addition to neck pain, there may be pain in one or both arms, between the shoulder blades, the face and even the low back.
In actuality, whiplash is commonly caused by low speed, low impact, rear-end automobile collisions. The causes of whiplash are complex and relate to a range of factors beyond just the force of impact.
Whiplash is a nonmedical term used to describe neck pain following an injury to the soft tissues of the neck (specifically ligaments, tendons, and muscles). It is caused by an abnormal motion or force applied to the neck that causes movement beyond the neck's normal range of motion.
Neck strain is often just called whiplash. Although it's usually associated with car accidents, any impact or blow that causes your head to jerk forward or backward can cause neck strain. The sudden force stretches and tears the muscles and tendons in your neck.
Low speed collisions can also cause whiplash. As well as road traffic accidents, whiplash can also be caused by a sudden blow to the head – for example, during contact sports, such as boxing or rugby.
Low speed rear-end accidents resulting in claims of neck pain, or whiplash, are a common cause of litigation. As engineering, biomechanics and accident reconstruction experts, we have investigated many of these accidents, as well as the resulting claims of injury, for both plaintiffs and defendants.
Whiplash, also called neck sprain or neck strain, is injury to the neck. Whiplash is characterized by a collection of symptoms that occur following damage to the neck. In whiplash, the intervertebral joints (located between vertebrae), discs, and ligaments, cervical muscles, and nerve roots may become damaged.
The most frequent cause of whiplash is a car accident. The speed of the cars involved in the accident or the amount of physical damage to the car may not relate to the intensity of neck injury; speeds as low as 15 miles per hour can produce enough energy to cause whiplash in occupants, even when they wear seat belts.