1.1 [count noun] The relative position or direction of something: using the orientation of a building to capture energy from the sun. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  First, a calibration process determines camera position and orientation with respect to the vehicle platform. 1 The action of orienting someone or something relative to the points of a compass or other specified positions: studies of locational awareness and orientation in young children.
noun. Orientation is someone knowing where they are, the direction someone is facing or the way someone tends to go. 1  An example of orientation is a person attending a training session for new employees. 2  An example of orientation is a person facing west. orientation. noun. 1  The act of orienting or the state of being oriented. 2  Location or position relative to the points of the compass. 3  The construction of a church so that its longitudinal axis has an east-west direction with the main altar usually at the eastern end.
orientation. 1  an orienting or being oriented. 2  position with relation to the points of the compass. 3  the planning of church architecture so that the altar is in the east end. 4  familiarization with and adaptation to a situation or environment; specif., orientation. noun. 1  The act of orienting or the state of being oriented. 2  Location or position relative to the points of the compass. 3  The construction of a church so that its longitudinal axis has an east-west direction with the main altar usually at the eastern end.
In geometry the orientation, angular position, or attitude of an object such as a line, plane or rigid body is part of the description of how it is placed in the space it is in. Namely, it is the imaginary rotation that is needed to move the object from a reference placement to its current placement. The attitude of a rigid body is its orientation as described, for example, by the orientation of a frame fixed in the body relative to a fixed reference frame.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: orientation (noun). the act of orienting. orientation (noun). an integrated set of attitudes and beliefs. orientation (noun). position or alignment relative to points of the compass or other specific directions. 
orientation. n. 1. the act or process of orienting or the state of being oriented. 2. (Navigation) position or positioning with relation to the points of the compass or other specific directions. 3. the adjustment or alignment of oneself or one's ideas to surroundings or circumstances. 4. (Education) Also called: orientation course. a. a course, programme, lecture, etc, introducing a new situation or environment. b. (as modifier): an orientation talk.
Full Definition of ORIENTATION. 1. a: the act or process of orienting or of being oriented b: the state of being oriented; broadly: arrangement, alignment. 2. a: a usually general or lasting direction of thought, inclination, or interest. Examples of ORIENTATION. 1  patients identifying themselves as homosexual or bisexual in orientation. 2  He makes no secret of his orientation. 3  The organization has a decidedly conservative orientation. 4  Her later works were more introspective in orientation. 5  These materials are used for the orientation of new employees.
Sexual orientation is an enduring pattern of romantic or sexual attraction (or a combination of these) to persons of the opposite sex or gender, the same sex or gender, or to both sexes or more than one gender. Most definitions of sexual orientation include a psychological component, such as the direction of an individual's erotic desires, or a behavioral component, which focuses on the sex of the individual's sexual partner/s. Some people prefer simply to follow an individual's self-definition or identity.