Wineglass Bay is part of the Freycinet Peninsula, an outcrop of wild, pristine coastland on Tasmania's east coast. The entire peninsula, comprising Friendly Beaches, Wineglass Bay and Schouten Island, is encompassed within the Freycinet National Park. Wineglass Bay. Wineglass Bay, on Tasmania's Freycinet Peninsula, is considered one of the top ten beaches in the world. This flawless crescent of dazzling white sand and sapphire-coloured sea set against pink and grey granite peaks is one of Australia's most beautiful natural environments.
Freycinet on the Bay is in the heart of Coles Bay with easy access to the Freycinet National Park, beaches and dining. The Freycinet Peninsular on Tasmanian East Coast is renowned for its long white beaches, rugged scenic coastline, brilliant blue seas and mild climate. 
page_location_3. The Freycinet Peninsula extends south-eastwards from Tasmania’s coastline and is a fully protected national park, including the internationally acclaimed Wineglass Bay. Saffire is located on the inside of the gentle curve of sandy coastline that joins the peninsula to mainland Tasmania. 
Bordering the national park is the small settlement of Coles Bay, and the largest close town is Swansea. Freycinet contains part of the rugged Tasmanian coastline and includes the secluded Wineglass Bay, voted by several travel authorities as one of the world's ten best beaches. Famous features of the park include its red and pink granite formations and a series of jagged granite peaks in a line, called  The Hazards .
Coles Bay sits at the foot of the granite mountains known as the Hazards and on the edge of the world-renowned Freycinet National Park and Wineglass Bay, about two and 1/2 hours drive from Hobart and Launceston on the east coast of Tasmania. The weather is fine. There is lots to do. Take the cruise around the Peninsula. Have a leisurely walk in Freycinet National Park. Kayak around the Bay. Go bush on a quad bike. See Wineglass Bay from the air. Or if you want to, chill out, relax and read a book. Whatever your idea of a holiday, this is the place.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Freycinet is a national park on the east coast of Tasmania, Australia, 125 km northeast of Hobart. It occupies a large part of the Freycinet Peninsula, named after French navigator Louis de Freycinet, and Schouten Island. Freycinet contains part of the rugged Tasmanian coastline and includes the secluded Wineglass Bay, voted by several travel authorities as one of the world's ten best beaches. Famous features of the park include its red and pink granite formations and a series of jagged granite peaks in a line, called  The Hazards .
Discover Wineglass Bay, one of the top 10 beaches in the world, located near Hobart, Tasmania. Find things to do at this spectacular coastal destination. Wineglass Bay, on Tasmania's Freycinet Peninsula, is considered one of the top ten beaches in the world. This flawless crescent of dazzling white sand and sapphire-coloured sea set against pink and grey granite peaks is one of Australia's most beautiful natural environments. Wineglass Bay. Wineglass Bay, on Tasmania's Freycinet Peninsula, is considered one of the top ten beaches in the world. This flawless crescent of dazzling white sand and sapphire-coloured sea set against pink and grey granite peaks is one of Australia's most beautiful natural environments.
The Freycinet Peninsula extends south-eastwards from Tasmania’s coastline and is a fully protected national park, including the internationally acclaimed Wineglass Bay. Saffire is located on the inside of the gentle curve of sandy coastline that joins the peninsula to mainland Tasmania. These granite monoliths are tenuously joined by a sand isthmus, which spans the celebrated Wineglass Bay and Hazards Beach. Learn more. Read our location history to know more about Saffire Freycinet, the best hotel accommodation in Tasmania Australia.