1 Exterior decorative lights, including post lighting, costs $50-$150. 2  Installing lighting attached to the home mimics the costs of installing flood lights; it rarely exceeds $300 and typically is closer to $200 per light. 3  Post lighting installation costs depend on the distance from the closest electrical junction. 1 Installing lighting attached to the home mimics the costs of installing flood lights; it rarely exceeds $300 and typically is closer to $200 per light. 2
Cost: Low The cost of motion detectors range from $10 to $150, depending on the type, features, and style of the light you choose. Installing a motion-sensor on one 500W outdoor flood light can save up to $180 a year which means your investment will pay for itself in less than one year! 
But there’s another factor at work here. If you want to save money on energy costs in such low-traffic places, energy-efficient lighting is probably the smarter choice. Instead of investing $25 in a motion-sensing light switch to cut down on energy costs, install CFL or LED bulbs in such low-traffic rooms. Not only will the energy costs be lower while the room is actually in use, the penalty won’t be nearly as severe if you forget to turn off the light switch.
But don’t forget lighting on a deck or at a basement door. An electrician will charge $64 to replace an existing outdoor light with a basic motion-sensing unit, which includes the labor and material. If you're comfortable doing electrical work, you can buy the light for $40 and install it yourself, saving 37 percent. 
Install Motion Lights. When working with electricity always: 1  Turn OFF electricity at the main fuse box (or the circuit breaker box) that controls the power to the fixture or the room you’re working on. 2  Use a voltage meter to test the wires to ensure the power is OFF. 3  Place the wall switch in the OFF position.
1 Most motion sensor lights are designed to be a fairly basic do-it-yourself installation project, but you can hire a handyman for anywhere from about $30-$250 in labor costs depending on the time involved, the hourly rate and the minimum per-visit charge. 1 Once they detect something moving in the area, most motions sensor lights let you adjust how long they stay on (1 minute, 5 minutes, etc.). 2  A good outdoor motion sensor detector has a field of vision of at least 180 degrees and for at least 75 feet. 3  Reader's Digest provides an overview.
Motion sensor lights are activated by motion and can cast either a focused beam or a bright floodlight. Motion sensor lights are typically installed as security lighting in outdoor areas, at entryways or in garages, laundry rooms, storage sheds or other areas where you don't want to have to fumble for a light switch. 1 Once they detect something moving in the area, most motions sensor lights let you adjust how long they stay on (1 minute, 5 minutes, etc.). 2  A good outdoor motion sensor detector has a field of vision of at least 180 degrees and for at least 75 feet. 3  Reader's Digest provides an overview.
1 Prices run about $15-$70 starting with a basic two-blub floodlight and going up to a more stylish porch light fixture, but can be $75-$200 or more a fancier outdoor fixture. 1 Once they detect something moving in the area, most motions sensor lights let you adjust how long they stay on (1 minute, 5 minutes, etc.). 2  A good outdoor motion sensor detector has a field of vision of at least 180 degrees and for at least 75 feet. 3  Reader's Digest provides an overview.
1 Purchasing a flood light costs $25-$75 with motion-sensing models on the higher end of the scale. 2  Installations without existing wiring rarely exceed $300, and tend to average $200 per fixture. 3  Path and accent lights typically cost $20-$60 per fixture. 1 Installing lighting attached to the home mimics the costs of installing flood lights; it rarely exceeds $300 and typically is closer to $200 per light. 2  Post lighting installation costs depend on the distance from the closest electrical junction.
1 Install motion sensor lights about 6-10 feet above the ground, aimed so that any movement naturally occurs in the middle of the sensor's active scanning area. 2  The Reader's Digest overview includes diagrams showing the best positions for installing outdoor motion sensor lights. 1 Once they detect something moving in the area, most motions sensor lights let you adjust how long they stay on (1 minute, 5 minutes, etc.). 2  A good outdoor motion sensor detector has a field of vision of at least 180 degrees and for at least 75 feet. 3  Reader's Digest provides an overview.