To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest the leg. 2  Ice your leg to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Compress your leg. 4  Elevate your leg on a pillow when you're sitting or lying down. 5  Take anti-inflammatory painkillers. 6  Practice stretching and strengthening exercises if your doctor/physical therapist recommends them. 1 Ice your leg to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress your leg. 4  Use an elastic bandage around the leg to keep down swelling.
It's like a rubber band: you can stretch it, but it reaches a limit and snaps. When you tear or pull your hamstring, first wrap the injured area with an ACE bandage and ice it immediately. Do not sit in a sauna or hot bath. Prolonged exposure to heat following a muscle tear can increase bleeding and lead to shock or cardiac arrest. So, yeah, ice it. 
For me, a true pulled hamstring feels like someone stabbed you in the back of the leg. When you try and walk you get a searing pain in your leg. The bad part: once you pull it once they are more susceptible to future pulls. 
Introduction. A hamstring injury is a strain or tear to the tendons or large muscles at the back of the thigh. It's a common injury in athletes and can occur in different severities. The three grades of hamstring injury are: 1  grade 1 – a mild muscle pull or strain. 2  grade 2 – a partial muscle tear
Mild hamstring strains may not hurt too much. But severe ones can be agonizing, making it impossible to walk or even stand. Other possible symptoms of a hamstring strain are: 1  Sudden and severe pain during exercise, along with a snapping or popping feeling. 1 Ice your leg to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress your leg. 4  Use an elastic bandage around the leg to keep down swelling.
1 Use an elastic bandage around the leg to keep down swelling. 2  Elevate your leg on a pillow when you're sitting or lying down. 3  Take anti-inflammatory painkillers. 4  Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), like ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) will help with pain and swelling. 1 Ice your leg to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress your leg. 4 
A hamstring injury occurs when 1 or more of the 3 hamstring muscles or tendons (a type of soft tissue connecting the muscle to the bone) tear. It is 1 of the most common injuries of the lower body, particularly affecting athletes participating in sports such as football, soccer, or track. The common structures involved in hamstring injuries are: 1  Hamstring muscle(s) and/or tendon (a type of soft tissue that connects muscle to bone). 2  Bursa (a fluid-filled sack that sits between bones and soft tissues to limit friction), usually irritated with recurring hamstring injuries.