We can improve water pollution by educating peoples about the harms caused by water pollution today and what are their effects in future.
With everything we hear in the news about pollution, global warming, and humanity’s effects on the environment, it’s only natural that we wonder how to do our part to solve these problems. Here are some basic ways to stop pollution that anyone can do, young or old, rich or poor: 1  First, reduce your own energy footprint.
Reducing emissions that cause poor air quality, ozone depletion and climate change requires teamwork. Individuals, communities, industry and business, and governments all contribute to pollution — so we can all be part of the solution.
What you can do to reduce water pollution. Waterways can easily be polluted through the way we all approach some common behaviors — applying fertilizers and pesticides, clearing grass clippings from yards, driveways and sidewalks; driving vehicles; flushing toilets; washing laundry and chemical disposal.
1 Avoid particular products that are dangerous to the environment and thus, by extension, dangerous to you and your loved ones. 2  One of the best ways to stop water pollution, for example is to use fewer pesticides, oils, and other things that can seep into the ground and taint our water supply.
What you can do to improve air quality. There are many simple actions you can take to reduce air pollution in your community, and help make the air cleaner and healthier for everyone. By working together, through your school or a community organization, you can make these actions even more effective.
We tend to think of air pollution as something outside -- smog, ozone, or haze hanging in the air, especially in summer. But the truth is, the air inside homes, offices, and other buildings can be more polluted than the air outside.
There are a number of things which we can all do to improve the quality of the air we breathe. The list below highlights a few of the simple things we can do to help to improve air quality.
Therefore, addressing one air quality issue can often help to reduce other kinds of pollution. Particulate matter, for example, is mainly released by fossil fuel and wood burning. Cutting down on this combustion will not just reduce particulate matter.