Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Boba originated from Asia. Boba, also known as black pearls or tapioca balls, is derived from the starch of the cassava root. When cooked perfectly, the Boba becomes a sweet chewy ball with a gummy-bear like texture about 1/4 of an inch in diameter. Boba tea, or more commonly known as Bubble Tea, is usually a sweetened tea with a layer of dark round tapioca balls at the bottom. As you sip your drink, these mysterious marbles travel up the specially wide straw.
Bubble Tea is the catch-all name for endless unusual names of this drink such as: tapioca pearl drink, tapioca ball drink, pearl shake, pearl tea, black pearl tea, big pearl, boba tea, boba ice tea, boba nai cha, milk tea, bubble drink, zhen zhu nai cha, momi, momi milk tea, QQ, BBT, PT, and possibly many other names. 
The Boba Bottom Line. Boba, boba milk tea, bubble tea, pearl milk tea … call it what you will, this sweet drink is more entertainment than nutrient. Indulge in moderation when you feel like a treat. Drink a cup of green or black tea for their unique benefits, and enjoy real fresh fruit, not sweetened fruit flavors. Enjoy boba tea for its sweet, exotic flavor and the chewy tapioca, not because it’s good for you. The effects of phenols and polyphenols present in tea have been extensively studied and have shown promise against cardiovascular conditions and obesity.
Boba can be added to any drink: milk tea, smoothies, juice and coffee. Boba tea, or more commonly known as Bubble Tea, is usually a sweetened tea with a layer of dark round tapioca balls at the bottom. As you sip your drink, these mysterious marbles travel up the specially wide straw.
Boba tea (also called pearl tea, or bubble tea) is a sweet drink that combines milk, flavored tea and tapioca pearls that are sucked up through an extra large straw and chewed. The pearls have a soft, chewy consistency similar to that of gummy candy. 
Most bubble tea recipes contain a tea base mixed/shaken with fruit or milk, to which chewy tapioca balls and/or fruit jellies are often added. Some may include coffee-blended drinks or even smoothies. Tapioca balls (boba) are the prevailing chewy tidbits in bubble tea, but a wide range of other options can be used to add similar texture to the drink. Green pearls have a small hint of green tea flavor and are chewier than the traditional tapioca balls.
Other names for boba include bubble tea, pearl milk tea, tapioca tea, ball drink, and pearl shake. The drink is usually served cold, with an extra-wide straw for sucking up the chewy boba along with your drink. Boba tea is usually available in teashops offering extensive menus of flavors and preparations. Enjoy boba tea for its sweet, exotic flavor and the chewy tapioca, not because it’s good for you. The effects of phenols and polyphenols present in tea have been extensively studied and have shown promise against cardiovascular conditions and obesity.
Bubble tea (also known as pearl milk tea, or boba-milk tea) (Traditional Chinese: 珍珠奶茶, Simplified Chinese: 珍珠奶茶) is a Taiwanese tea-based drink invented in Taichung in the 1980s. Some may include coffee-blended drinks or even smoothies. Tapioca balls (boba) are the prevailing chewy tidbits in bubble tea, but a wide range of other options can be used to add similar texture to the drink. Green pearls have a small hint of green tea flavor and are chewier than the traditional tapioca balls.
Boba is the little tapiocal pearls or bubbles in the famous Taiwanese drink bubble tea. It's a delicious milk tea drink with tapioca in it. Boba tastes and feels kind of like jello, except with a harder center. Order one in china town and taste it for yourself. Boba Fett is a bounty hunter in the Star Wars series. His father, Jango Fett, died in episode 2. Boba then carried out his father's tradition and works for the Empire in the t … rilogy (episodes 4,5,and 6).  On episode 6, he got swallowed up by the Sarlacc in Tatooine. I heard that he didn't die there.
Different types of bubble tea drinks with boba. Photo Credit Kenneth Shelton / EyeEm/EyeEm/Getty Images. Boba, or “boba pearls” or “tapioca balls” as they’re commonly called, is a key ingredient of the popular Asian drink boba tea, which was reportedly invented in the 1980s in Taiwan. Boba tea goes by a variety of names, depending on what part of the world you’re in: bubble tea, pearl milk tea, pearl tea, pearl shake, black pearl tea, tapioca pearl drink, to name just a few.