The average lifespan of bald eagles in the wild is around 20 years, with the oldest confirmed one having been 38 years of age. In captivity, they often live somewhat longer. In one instance, a captive individual in New York lived for nearly 50 years. 
In the wild, Bald Eagles typically live about 20-30 years, but can realize a life span of approximately 50 years. They generally live longer in captivity, up to 60 years. + 111 others found this useful. that depends on the eagle   A bald eagle ussally lives around 20 - 30 years in the wild but live longer in captivity. the record is 50 years old held by a captive eagle liv … ing in a new york zoo.
How long do eagles live? In the wild, an eagle that makes it to adulthood might live 20-25 years. 70-80% of eagles die before they reach adulthood at five years of age. In captivity, eagles are known to live much longer 40+ and up to 50 years, due to a controlled environment, nutrient rich diet and veterinary care. Legends of eagles rejuvenating and living another 30+ years by going through a painful rebirthing process are purely mythical. What is the length of a bald eagle? Size varies with geography and gender with females being larger than males and northern birds being larger than southern birds. The average female bald eagle is 35 to 38 inches (89cm-96.5 cm) in length and is approximately 25% larger than the male.
Diet: Bald eagles love fish! When fish are not available, bald eagles will eat whatever they can catch including small birds, rodents, and dead meat. Bald eagles have no problem stealing food from other birds! Typical Lifespan: Bald eagles can live to about 20-30 years of age in the wild. They live even longer in captivity. 
Q. About how long does it take for the bald eagle's eggs to hatch and how long until it can fly? A. It takes 35 days to hatch, then young in nest 10-12 weeks more unti lthey fledge (fly from nest). Q. How old are they before young eagles can fly? A. At 10-12 weeks, when they leave their nest. 
The distinctive adult plumage is attained at 4 to 5 years of age. Bald eagles are about 34 to 43 inches long, can weigh 8 to 14 pounds, and have a wingspan of 6 to 8 feet. The sexes are similar in appearance, although the females are larger. Bald eagles have a life expectancy of 25 to 30 years, and longer in captivity. Young bald eagles are often confused with golden eagles; however, they are grayer than the darker golden eagle, and the bill is much heavier. 
1 A bald eagle can live up to 30 years in the wild, and longer in captivity. 2  These eagles can fly up to 60 miles per hour, and can dive at speeds up to 100 miles per hour. 3  All bald eagles in captivity -- including those at the Saint Louis Zoo -- can no longer survive in the wild. From head to tail it can measure up to three-and-a-half-feet long, and weigh between eight and 15 pounds. The wingspan of an adult can reach eight feet. Adult male and female bald eagles look the same, with the characteristic white head, white tail markings, and brown body. Their beak, feet and eyes are yellow.
Fun Facts. 1  A bald eagle can live up to 30 years in the wild, and longer in captivity. 2  These eagles can fly up to 60 miles per hour, and can dive at speeds up to 100 miles per hour. From head to tail it can measure up to three-and-a-half-feet long, and weigh between eight and 15 pounds. The wingspan of an adult can reach eight feet. Adult male and female bald eagles look the same, with the characteristic white head, white tail markings, and brown body. Their beak, feet and eyes are yellow.
Bald eagles may live 15 to 25 years in the wild, longer in captivity. Breeding bald eagles typically lay one to three eggs once a year, and they hatch after about 35 days. The young eagles are flying within three months and are on their own about a month later. 
A. Typically in the wild probably between 20-30 years. Some eagles in captivity have lived up to 50 years, but in the wild they would not live as long. These birds may live 40 years or longer. Information from a few wild, banded eagles shows that they may live to be 30 or a little older in the wild. I suspect that a 25 year-old bald eagle in the wild is old, and a 30 year old eagle is very old.