An embassy is the main location for a diplomatic presence of one country in another. A country has at most one embassy in another country, and most embassies are located in capital cities. 
It also facilitates import and export between the two countries. While Embassy is the diplomatic representation of a government in another nation, Consulate is the representation of public administration. Embassies exchange messages between its government and the host government. Consulates are only responsible for its own citizens who are traveling or living in the host nation. Embassies are permanent diplomatic missions generally located in a county’s capital. Consulates are located only in bigger cities and not in the capital city. Countries establish Embassies in another nation only if it recognizes the sovereignty of that country.
Embassy and consulate refer to government representations in a foreign country. A country will have only one Embassy in another nation whereas it will have a number of consulates in various cities. An embassy is the larger representation, but a consulate is only a smaller version of the embassy. Consulates in a sense can be called junior embassies. Embassies are permanent diplomatic missions generally located in a county’s capital. Consulates are located only in bigger cities and not in the capital city. Countries establish Embassies in another nation only if it recognizes the sovereignty of that country.
From the perspective of a traveler, there is almost zero difference. Both embassies and consulates are representative departments of a foreign country/government within another country. Technically, an Embassy is where an Ambassador is based. 
Best Answer: An Embassy is the main representative body of a country in another. A consulate is a branch office of a embassy. An example -- there is an Australian Embassy in Washington DC but there are Australian Consulates in most states throughout the US. Both do the same work although the Ambassador and the Military Attache would only be stationed in an embassy.
A High Commission is the Embassy of a member country of the British Commonwealth in another Commonwealth country. A Nunciature ist the name of the embassy of the State of Vatican. Till the middle of the 20th Century, there was a difference between an embassy and a legation. Only the diplomatic representation of a monarchy were called embassy. Republican countries had legations. Nowadays this distinction is antiquated.
On the other hand, a High Commission is an embassy of one Commonwealth country to another Commonwealth country. • Embassy is also a building where diplomats work or live. • There is difference between the persons associated with High Commission and Embassy too. The person associated with High Commission is called a High Commissioner while the person associated with an Embassy is called the Ambassador. High Commission vs Embassy. The difference between High Commission and Embassy is easy to understand, if you understand the difference between Commonwealth and non-Commonwealth countries. Commonwealth countries are the countries that were once the territories of British Empire and are now independent states.
• Embassy is the office of the ambassador while consulate is the office of the Consul. • There is only one embassy of a country in another country that it recognizes, and this is situated in the capital of the host country. • There can be more than one consulates of a country in the host country in different cities depending upon their tourist importance or other cultural importance. However, despite overlapping, there are differences between a consulate and an embassy that will be discussed in this article. Consulate. A consulate is a diplomatic mission that is generally smaller than an embassy and is found in cities other than the capital cities of the world. There are many important cities in a country other than its capital such as cities that are important from the point of view of tourism or business
An Embassy is a building where diplomats work or live in whereas a High Commission is an embassy of one British Commonwealth country to another country. A high commissioner is a person with various high ranked and special executive positions held by a commission of appointment. 2. The head of an Embassy is an ambassador while the head of the High Commission is a high commissioner. 3. An embassy plays an important role in foreign relations while the High Commission has a role in the Commonwealth Government to another government.