Mitral insufficiency-also known as mitral regurgitation-occurs when a damaged mitral valve allows blood from the left ventricle to flow back into the left atrium during systole. As a result, the atrium enlarges to accommodate the backflow. 
By Mayo Clinic Staff. Print. Mitral valve regurgitation — also called mitral regurgitation, mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence — is a condition in which your heart's mitral valve doesn't close tightly, allowing blood to flow backward in your heart. As a result, blood can't move through your heart or to the rest of your body as efficiently, making you feel tired or out of breath. Treatment of mitral valve regurgitation depends on how severe your condition is, whether it's getting worse and whether you have symptoms. For mild leakage, treatment may not be necessary. You may need heart surgery to repair or replace the valve for severe leakage or regurgitation
It is the abnormal leaking of blood backwards from the left ventricle, through the mitral valve, into the left atrium, when the left ventricle contracts, i.e. there is regurgitation of blood back into the left atrium. MI is the most common form of valvular heart disease. The treatment of mitral insufficiency depends on the acuteness of the disease and whether there are associated signs of hemodynamic compromise. In acute MI secondary to a mechanical defect in the heart (i.e., rupture of a papillary muscle or chordae tendineae), the treatment of choice is mitral valve surgery.
Mitral valve regurgitation means that one of the valves in your heart-the mitral valve-is letting blood leak backward into the heart. Heart valves work like one-way gates, helping blood flow in one direction between heart chambers or in and out of the heart. The mitral valve is on the left side of your heart. It lets blood flow from the upper to the lower heart chamber. See a picture of mitral valve regurgitation. When the mitral valve is damaged-for example, by an infection-it may no longer close tightly.
Mitral regurgitation is sometimes called mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence. In mitral regurgitation the valve does not close properly. This causes blood to leak back (regurgitate) into the left atrium when the left ventricle contracts. Basically, the more open the valve remains, the more blood regurgitates, the more severe the problem.
Mitral insufficiency (MI) , mitral regurgitation or mitral incompetence is a disorder of the heart in which the mitral valve does not close properly when the heart pumps out blood. The treatment of mitral insufficiency depends on the acuteness of the disease and whether there are associated signs of hemodynamic compromise. In acute MI secondary to a mechanical defect in the heart (i.e., rupture of a papillary muscle or chordae tendineae), the treatment of choice is mitral valve surgery.
Mitral regurgitation is where blood leaks back through the mitral valve in the heart as the valve does not close properly. This increases the pressure in the left atrium and in the blood vessels coming from the lungs. This may lead to various problems and symptoms, depending on the severity of the leak. In mitral regurgitation the valve does not close properly. This causes blood to leak back (regurgitate) into the left atrium when the left ventricle contracts. Basically, the more open the valve remains, the more blood regurgitates, the more severe the problem.
Mitral valve insufficiency is a term used when the valve between the upper left chamber of the heart (atrium) and the lower left chamber (ventricle) does not close well enough to prevent back flow of blood when the ventricle contracts. The left ventricle contracts to pump the blood forward into the aorta. The aorta is a large artery that sends oxygenated blood through the circulatory system to all of the tissues in the body. If the mitral valve is leaky due to mitral valve insufficiency, it allows some blood to get pushed back into the atrium.
Mitral insufficiency: A malfunction of the mitral valve that permits the backflow of blood (regurgitation) from the left ventricle into the left atrium. Most mitral insufficiency is mild and requires no treatment. When severe, however, treatment with medications and sometimes surgery is necessary. 