A single wild onion plant. Wild onion flowers and seeds. Close-up of Wild Onion flowers and seeds. Wild onions form large beds of plants which drive out other plants. They are most common in cooler weather. The whole plant can be used same as chives, from the bulb to the tips of the green stems. There is a minimally toxic mimic of wild onion, which is called Crow's Poison (Nothoscordum bivalve). This plant look almost identical to a small wild onion but it lacks the onion/garlic smell when. Crushed Crow's Poison smell like grass whereas the wild onion smells like onion when crushed.
Wild Onion Identification. Within the onion genus Allium there are more than 800 different species. Some of these species provide the produce seen in the marketplace, such as white, red and yellow onions, shallots and even garlic. But there are also wild onion species, which can be found throughout North America. Types. There are three main species in the Allium genus that are considered wild--that is, they can be found in uncultivated areas: Allium vineale, also known as wild garlic; Allium canadense, also known as meadow garlic; and Allium validum, also known as the Pacific onion.
Like cultivated onions, wild onions have a distinctive sharp flavor and scent. Many wild onions have a very strong odor, which can sometimes make them very easy to identify when they are growing in the wild. 
Allium tricoccum (commonly known as ramp, ramps, spring onion, ramson, wild leek, wood leek, and wild garlic) is a North American species of wild onion widespread across eastern Canada and the eastern United States. Many of these English names are used for other Allium species, particularly Allium ursinum. 
A few caveats, though. Be sure these really are wild onions (sometimes called wild garlic.) There are a few look-alike plants that are poisonous. Wild onions have a distinctive onion scent, so check for that before eating. Also be sure the plants are cleaned and not subjected to any lawn herbicides if you're gathering from the lawn. 
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Wild onions are members of the onion family which grow naturally in the wild, rather than being specifically cultivated. They can be found all over the world, and several species are treated as culinary delicacies, such as the ramp, also known as Allium tricoccum. 
Clump of wild garlic (Allium vineale); also called, field garlic, scallions, crow garlic; can be a pest of lawn or garden. Wild garlic, Allium vineale, and wild onion, A. canadense are common weeds in lawns. The easiest way to tell them apart is by their leaves. Wild garlic has hollow leaves and wild onion has solid flat leaves. Both are noticeable in lawns where they generally grow faster than the surrounding grass. 
Description. Wild onion (A. validum or A. canadense) is a bulbous herb of the Amaryllis family and is a close relative of cultivated onion (Allium cepa L.). It has a distinct onion odor. It has slender grass-like leaves and reaches about 2 feet in height when flowers appear in late summer
Identification of Wild Onion Plants. Wild onion weeds grow in clumps and are typically found in flower beds or near difficult to mow areas, though they can also grow in lawn. Wild onions can be identified by their thin, waxy spear-like leaves. Wild onion is often confused with its close cousin, wild garlic. Wild onions have flat leaves while wild garlic has round leaves. Wild onions grow from white bulbs. They will either spread by forming bulblets on their bulbs, creating larger clumps, or by seed, spreading the wild onion plants to other parts of the garden.