The asteroid belt is a region of space between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter where most of the asteroids in our Solar System are found orbiting the Sun. 
Most of the asteroids in our Solar system are located between the  orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It is referred to as the Asteroid belt.  They are rocky remnants left over fro … m the early formation of our  solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. Most of the asteroids in our solar system are located within the asteroid belt, which consists of millions of individual asteroids, and is found between the orbits of Mars and … Jupiter. Answered. In Planetary Science.
Asteroids are found all over the solar system. The vast majority is located in the asteroid belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. Most of the asteroids in our solar system are located within the asteroid belt, which consists of millions of individual asteroids, and is found between the orbits of Mars and … Jupiter. Answered. In Planetary Science.
Asteroids are small, metallic or rocky in composition, and have no atmosphere. Most asteroids orbit the sun within a broad belt located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter: the asteroid belt. Millions of asteroids are under 0.6 mile (1 kilometer) in diameter, but there are many that are larger. The biggest, Ceres, is 590 miles (950 kilometers) in diameter. 
Between Mars and Jupiter in the asteroid belt The largest collection of asteroids is found in the asteroid belt, a ring located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It is s … ometimes called the Main Belt because asteroids exist in other orbits as well. Most of the asteroids in our solar system are located within the asteroid belt, which consists of millions of individual asteroids, and is found between the orbits of Mars and … Jupiter. Answered. In Planetary Science.
Yes. The most visible asteroid belt in the solar system is the main. Asteroid Belt between Mars and Jupiter. The dwarf planet Ceres is the largest of the bodies in the Belt. … However, there is also a larger area past the orbit of Neptune called the Kuiper Belt, which likewise contains many thousands of asteroids. Most of the asteroids within our solar system can be found within the Asteroid Belt. Located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, the Asteroid Belt consists of millions of … individual asteroids of varying sizes-from a speck of dust to hundreds of kilometers in diameter.
Asteroid belt. 99 pages on this wiki. The Asteroid belt, also known as the Main belt, is a three billion cubit-mile asteroid region in the Solar System located between the two planets Mars and Jupiter, and contains a moderate fraction of the asteroids that are found in the Solar System. 
The dwarf planet called Ceres orbits the Sun in the asteroid belt. An asteroid is a bit of rock. It can be thought of as what was left over after the Sun and all the planets were formed. Most of the asteroids in our solar system can be found orbiting the Sun between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. This area is sometimes called the asteroid belt. 
The asteroid belt is the region of the Solar System located roughly between the orbits of the planets Mars and Jupiter. About half the mass of the belt is contained in the four largest asteroids: Ceres, Vesta, Pallas, and Hygiea. The total mass of the asteroid belt is approximately 4% that of the Moon, which is significantly less than that of Pluto and roughly twice that of Pluto's moon Charon (whose diameter is 1200 km).