Ultrasound technologists (also known as diagnostic medical sonographers) have the knowledge and responsibility to perform ultrasound examinations utilizing a technology that creates detailed and dynamic images of the body’s internal organs using high frequency sound waves. 
Essential Information. Ultrasound technicians, also called diagnostic medical sonographers or sonographers, operate equipment that utilizes sound waves to create images of the body's internal structures. Ultrasound is commonly used in obstetrics, but it can also diagnose other medical conditions. Ultrasound technicians, also called diagnostic medical sonographers or sonographers, operate equipment that utilizes sound waves to create images of the body's internal structures
Additionally, ultrasound technology has advanced to allow for different types of imaging: 1  Doppler is a special type of ultrasound that creates images of blood flow through vessels. 2  Bone sonography helps doctors diagnose osteoporosis. 3  Echocardiograms are used to view the heart. 4  3D imaging adds another dimension to the ultrasound image, creating ... 1 In a transvaginal ultrasound, a transducer wand is placed in a woman’s vagina to get better images of her uterus and ovaries. 2  A transrectal ultrasound is sometimes used in the diagnosis of prostate conditions.
Outside of the hospital, there are plenty of opportunities for experienced ultrasound techs to work in private physician offices and/or outpatient diagnostic imaging clinics. Ultrasound relies on sound waves to produce images of internal organs, soft tissue, and blood vessels, as well as to observe developing fetuses in the womb. Since it is non-invasive and does not use radiation, it is perfectly safe and harmless in trained hands.
Sometimes, however, doctors and technicians can get a better diagnostic image by inserting a special transducer into one of the body's natural openings: 1  In a transvaginal ultrasound, a transducer wand is placed in a woman’s vagina to get better images of her uterus and ovaries. 1 In a transvaginal ultrasound, a transducer wand is placed in a woman’s vagina to get better images of her uterus and ovaries. 2  A transrectal ultrasound is sometimes used in the diagnosis of prostate conditions.
An ultrasound technician is a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer. An ultrasound is a form of medical imaging that uses penetrative sound waves to produce images of a patient’s insides. The images produced is used to diagnose diseases and for other purpose such as obtaining an image of your unborn baby. 1 The technician applies gel over the area to be scanned so the sound waves can produce an image of the inside of the body. 2  They operate the imaging machines to obtain images of the inside of the patient. 3  They analyze images to check for errors and quality. 4  They can also make initial determination for physicians.
Ultrasound technicians, or sonographers, operate machines that use sound waves to create images of the inside of the body. Sonograms help physicians diagnose illnesses, track changes within the body and guide surgical procedures. Sonographers help physicians diagnose serious health conditions, which is a benefit to society in many ways. They may help locate tumors in the liver or kidneys, or track the progress of healing from injuries.
When people think of ultrasound technicians (also known as sonographers or ultrasound technologists), they often visualize the TV shows, movies, or ads they’ve seen where ultrasound is used during pregnancy to give parents a peek inside the womb to view the moving and growing baby. Ultrasound relies on sound waves to produce images of internal organs, soft tissue, and blood vessels, as well as to observe developing fetuses in the womb. Since it is non-invasive and does not use radiation, it is perfectly safe and harmless in trained hands.
Again that is the benefit of being a Sonographer and choosing the schedule that fits your personal lifestyle. Short School Requirements. Another crucial benefit of becoming a Sonographer is the amount of schooling in comparison to the overall rewarding career of Ultrasound. On average it does take four years to complete your degree in ultrasound. There are about 2 years of prerequisites and the actual program that you must apply for and be accepted into is a 2 year program, at most schools. The programs consist of 1 year in class work and 1 year in a clinical site working as an intern. The great benefit to Ultrasound is many doctors are requesting ultrasound first because they are fast, no radiation, and low cost to the patient. Ultrasound Job Work Schedules. Ultrasound, just like any radiology modality can have flexible schedules.