Heart and blood vessel disease — also called heart disease — includes numerous problems, many of which are related to a process called atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a condition that develops when a substance called plaque builds up in the walls of the arteries. 
The term heart disease is often used interchangeably with the term cardiovascular disease.. Cardiovascular disease generally refers to conditions that involve narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect your heart. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
Coronary artery disease causes most heart attacks and is the most common form of heart disease. The types of heart disease include: Atherosclerosis is a buildup of cholesterol, calcium and blood clotting material on the walls of the arteries. The material that builds up is called plaque. 
Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) is the most common form of heart disease. It occurs when the arteries supplying blood to the heart narrow or harden from the build-up of plaque. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol and other substances found in the blood. This plaque build-up is also known as atherosclerosis. The site of the plaque determines the type of heart disease: 1  Coronary artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the heart. 2  Peripheral artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the arms and legs.
The most common type of heart disease in the United States is coronary artery disease, which affects the blood flow to the heart and can cause a heart attack. The term heart disease refers to several types of heart conditions. The most common type of heart disease in the United States is coronary artery disease, which affects the blood flow to the heart. Decreased blood flow can cause a heart attack. Learn more about heart disease, heart attack, and related conditions:
1 Coronary artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the heart. 2  Peripheral artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the arms and legs. 3  Carotid artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries that supply blood to the brain. This plaque build-up is also known as atherosclerosis. The site of the plaque determines the type of heart disease: 1 
Coronary heart disease is a common type of heart disease. This condition results from a buildup of plaque on the inside of the arteries, which reduces blood flow to the heart and increases the risk of a heart attack and other heart complications. Other forms of heart disease include: 