Fetal alcohol syndrome has a pronounced effect on the mental and social development of a child, including reasoning, thinking, coordination, and social skills. Fetal alcohol syndrome also affects formation of the heart and skeletal system. A baby with fetal alcohol syndrome is often easy to identify.
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) are a group of conditions that can occur in a person whose mother consumed alcohol during pregnancy. FASD is the most common cause of brain damage before birth (called congenital neurological deficits) and is related to alcohol intake by the mother
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) are a group of conditions that can occur in a person whose mother drank alcohol during pregnancy. Problems may include an abnormal appearance, short height, low body weight, small head, poor coordination, low intelligence, behavior problems, and problems with hearing or seeing.
Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is a pattern of physical and mental defects that can develop in a fetus in association with high levels of alcohol consumption during pregnancy.
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders are a group of birth defects that can happen when a pregnant woman drinks alcohol. Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the most severe type of the disorder. FAS and other spectrum disorders affect children differently. Symptoms can range from mild to severe. They can include:
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are a group of conditions that can occur in a person whose mother drank alcohol during pregnancy. FASDs are completely preventable if a woman does not drink alcohol during pregnancy. 1  Basics Facts, causes, signs, diagnosis, and treatments.
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are a group of conditions that can occur in a person whose mother drank alcohol during pregnancy. These effects can include physical problems and problems with behavior and learning. Often, a person with an FASD has a mix of these problems.
Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the most advanced type of fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD), disorders that are caused by alcohol use during pregnancy. These disorders can cause problems in physical, mental and cognitive development of the infant.
Fetal alcohol syndrome is growth, mental, and physical problems that may occur in a baby when a mother drinks alcohol during pregnancy.