Document control specialists primarily work in industries such as engineering or pharmaceutical manufacturing, where they fine-tune literature and manuals that the company releases to simplify the language and/or create clear instructions. Document control specialists must be skilled in word processing and database software, as well as have outstanding communication skills and attention to detail. They must be comfortable working in a fast-paced environment and working as part of a team.
California has the third-highest pay, at $40.83 per hour, or $84,920 per year. New Jersey is next, at $38.69 per hour, or $76,320 per year, and Illinois, where a document control specialist averages $35.66 per hour, or $74,160 per year. Career Outlook. BLS projects job growth for document control specialists to be slower than the 14 percent increase expected between 2010 and 2020 for all career fields. The largest employer of document control specialists, the U.S. government, has a hiring freeze in place.
$27,000. Average Document Control Specialist salaries for job postings nationwide are 53% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
Most of what document control specialists work on are the instruction manuals and technical documentation that accompany electronic and technological products. When the writing team has finished compiling this information, the specialist reviews it, looking for clarity and accuracy. In most contexts, a document control specialist works as a member of a technical writing team. Technical writing basically seeks to capture the essence of a procedure or product, then frame it in language that is more readily understood by consumers.
Job Duties. Document control specialists store, manage and track company documents. They scan, image, organize and maintain documents, adhering to the company's document lifecycle procedures, and they archive inactive records in accordance with the records retention schedule. Although an associate degree is preferred by many employers, document control specialists typically only need a high school diploma. More advanced positions might require a bachelor's degree, however, or extensive experience. Depending on the industry, some need knowledge of special terminology
A Document Control Specialist earns an average wage of $18.08 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. A skill in Auditing is associated with high pay for this job. $31,429 - $69,311. Document control specialists must be skilled in word processing and database software, as well as have outstanding communication skills and attention to detail. They must be comfortable working in a fast-paced environment and working as part of a team.
As a document control specialist, you'll assist network and system managers in the day-to-day operation of the networks and systems. Career Outlook. BLS projects job growth for document control specialists to be slower than the 14 percent increase expected between 2010 and 2020 for all career fields. The largest employer of document control specialists, the U.S. government, has a hiring freeze in place.
A document control specialist typically spends much of his or her time fine-tuning the literature, manuals and instruction materials that accompany highly technical products. In most contexts, a document control specialist works as a member of a technical writing team. Technical writing basically seeks to capture the essence of a procedure or product, then frame it in language that is more readily understood by consumers.
A large part of the job is to control the retrieval of documents. Document control specialists receive and process Requests for Information, or RFIs, from employees or clients and maintain the requests via tracking logs. Although an associate degree is preferred by many employers, document control specialists typically only need a high school diploma. More advanced positions might require a bachelor's degree, however, or extensive experience. Depending on the industry, some need knowledge of special terminology