The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. It is one of the only arteries (other than the umbilical arteries in the fetus) that carries deoxygenated blood. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. The blood here passes through capillaries adjacent to alveoli and becomes oxygenated as part of the process of respiration. In contrast to the pulmonary arteries, the bronchial arteries supply nutrition to the lungs themselves
The aorta (/eɪˈɔrtə/) is the main artery in the human body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and extending down to the abdomen, where it splits into two smaller arteries (the common iliac arteries). The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body through the systemic circulation. 
The aorta supplies oxygenated blood from the heart's pumping chamber to the rest of the body. Pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated or unaerated blood from the heart to the lungs.Like all arteries, the pulmonary artery carries blood away from the heart. Diffen › Science › Biology › Anatomy. The aorta and the pulmonary artery are the two most important arteries in the human body. The aorta is the biggest artery and channels oxygenated blood to the rest of the body. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs for purification.
A pulmonary artery may be absent. The right and left branches may be doubled. The left branch may provide a branch to the left subclavian, and the right a branch to the brachiocephalic trunk. In some cases, the ductus arteriosus arises from the aorta or the right ventricle. An accessory pulmonary artery may arise from the abdominal aorta.
The aorta is the largest artery in the body. Arteries are vessels that carry blood away from the heart. The aorta arises from the left ventricle of the heart, forms an arch, then extends down to the abdomen, where it branches off into two smaller arteries. The aorta carries and distributes oxygen rich blood to all arteries. Most major arteries branch off from the aorta, with the exception of the main pulmonary artery. The walls of the aorta consist of three layers. They are the tunica adventitia, the tunica media, and the tunica intima. These layers are composed of connective tissue, as well as elastic fibers
Embryologically, the pulmonary arteries originate from the truncus arteriosus (as does the aorta), and in the developed heart, the pulmonary trunk (pulmonary artery or main pulmonary artery) begins at the base of the right ventricle. As the circuit approaches the lung, the right pulmonary artery branches into two arteries, and both branches enter the lung at a medial indentation called the hilum of the lung. The upper branch is the superior lobar artery, which feeds into the superior lobe
The aorta is the artery that carries oxygenated blood to the entire body. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs. Function. The function of the aorta is to carry oxygenated blood throughout the body. The function of the pulmonary artery is to deliver blood to the lungs for oxygenation. Diffen › Science › Biology › Anatomy. The aorta and the pulmonary artery are the two most important arteries in the human body. The aorta is the biggest artery and channels oxygenated blood to the rest of the body. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs for purification.
However, the pulmonary artery and aortic arch (the part of the aorta with similar proximity to the heart as the pulmonary artery) also differ in structure, thickness, and cellularity 17 18; it is not clear how this combination of factors would influence atherosclerosis. Relationship between cholesterol concentrations of pulmonary artery and those of the aortic regions for normal rabbits and for rabbits fed cholesterol for up to 16 days (total cholesterol [top], esterified cholesterol [middle], and nonesterified cholesterol [bottom]).