Vitamin D got its nickname, the sunshine vitamin, because sun exposure helps promote vitamin D production in the body. This essential nutrient is also found naturally in a few foods such as oily fish (mackerel, salmon) and is used to fortify milk, baby formula, cereal, and juice. In addition to helping prevent arthritis, getting enough vitamin D may also lower the risk for other autoimmune diseases, cancer, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, bone fractures, depression, and even the flu.
Not having enough (a deficiency) of some vitamins and minerals seems to be linked with arthritis progressing more quickly. The most important vitamins and minerals to think about if you have arthritis are calcium, vitamin D and iron. However, it’s important not to take too much fish liver oil because it contains high levels of vitamin A. If you're over 60, dark-skinned or don't expose your skin much to the sun and are worried about a lack of vitamin D, you and your doctor should discuss whether a vitamin D supplement would be right for you.
5 Replies. The most commonly deficient vitamins for people dealing with rheumatoid arthritis are vitamin C, vitamin B6, folate (vitamin B9), vitamin D, vitamin B12 and vitamin E. It is preferable to get these vitamins in your diet however if that is not possible then supplements can be used. 1 Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin. 2  It is found naturally in some foods and is an antioxidant. 3  Antioxidants protect cells from free radicals which damage cells. 4  Vitamin E is important for healthy immune function. 5  Vitamin E is found in avocados, egg yolk, nuts, wheat germ, whole grains, and peanut butter.
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Arthritis? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Arthritis. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Arthritis returned 111 matches.
Vitamin D. Along with calcium, Vitamin D are most important vitamins for arthritis that can aid you in your fight against joint mobility problems. They not only cement collagen and strengthen bones, but also lead to proper lubrication and mobility of joints. Best Vitamins for Arthritis. According to the Association of Medical Practitioners in the US, a major swelling in a joint coupled with inability to move, irritation, and painful spasm refer to the joint condition called arthritis, typically occurring in aged people.
While the vitamin C benefits are clear, the amount of Vitamin C for people with different kinds of arthritis is questionable. Learn about recent studies on vitamin C amounts and effects. 
It is thus, one of the best vitamins for arthritis. The best sources of Vitamin E are raw vegetables and fruits like cabbage, Brussels sprouts, asparagus and others. You can also try including nuts, fish oil and soya bean oil. Best Vitamins for Arthritis. According to the Association of Medical Practitioners in the US, a major swelling in a joint coupled with inability to move, irritation, and painful spasm refer to the joint condition called arthritis, typically occurring in aged people.
Omega-3 fatty acids for inflammatory arthritis. Omega-3 (also called ‘n-3’) polyunsaturated fatty acids have been shown to help some people with inflammatory types of arthritis such as rheumatoid arthritis, reactive arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis.
MSM, which stands for methylsulfonylmethane, is naturally found in healthy foods such as fruits and vegetables, and is thought to help form connective tissue in the body and may possibly reduce arthritis pain. Some studies have supported the claim that MSM can lower inflammation, Wei notes, but the effects are modest. 1 There are some other supplements, however, that you should probably leave on the shelf. 2  There are a number of things to keep in mind even about those arthritis supplements that may be helpful. 3  For one, they aren’t free of side effects and they aren’t regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.