Best Answer: Chordates, which include all vertebrates including you and I, and the Echinoderms, which includes things like starfish and sea urchins, are deuterostomes. The name deuterostome means second mouth and comes from studies of the development of the embryos of these animals. In deuterostomes, it becoems the anus. The animal Phyla which are protostomes are: Coelentrata, Platyhelminta, Nematoda, Annelida, Mollusca and Arthropoda. The deuterostomes are: Echinodermata, Chordata. Eevaya · 9 years ago.
• Protostomes contain more phyla and species than deuterostomes do. • Mouth is formed from the blastopore in protostomes while that leads to form the anus in deuterostomes. • Protostomes have a spiral cleavage whereas deuterostomes have a radial cleavage. • Fate of the cells formed through cleavage is determined in protostomes but not in deuterostomes. Protostomes include animals including Platyhelminthes, Molluscs, Arthropods, Annelids, Nematodes, and many other lower phyla. Among most of the protostomes, the coelom is formed via splitting a solid mass of the embryonic mesoderm; hence, they are called as schizocoelomates.
Protostomia and Deuterostomia are considered super-phyletic taxa, each containing a variety of animal phyla. Traditionally, the protostomes include the Annelida, Arthropoda, and Mollusca, and the deuterostomes comprise the Echinodermata and Chordata. In deuterostomes, it becoems the anus. The animal Phyla which are protostomes are: Coelentrata, Platyhelminta, Nematoda, Annelida, Mollusca and Arthropoda. The deuterostomes are: Echinodermata, Chordata. Eevaya · 9 years ago.
Protostomia (from Greek meaning mouth first) are a clade of animals. Together with the deuterostomes and other phyla, they make up the Bilateria, mostly comprising animals with bilateral symmetry and three germ layers. The major distinctions between deuterostomes and protostomes are found in embryonic development. In animals at least as complex as earthworms, the embryo forms a dent on one side, the blastopore, which deepens to become the archenteron, the first phase in the growth of the gut
4 Protostomes and Deuterostomes • Name comes from embryonic development – Protostome = As the embryo develops, the first opening becomes the mouth– Deuterostome = As embryo develops, the first opening becomes the anus. The Worms 1. Flatworms2. Roundworms3. 
The majority of coelomate invertebrates develop as protostomes (first mouth) in which the oral end of the animal develops from the first developmental opening, the blastopore. In the deuterostomes (second mouth: cf. 
Protostomes (mollusks, annelids, and arthropods) develop so that the first opening in the embryo is the mouth (protostome = first mouth). Protostomes are bilaterally symmetrical, have three germ layers, the organ level of organization, the tube-within-a-tube body plan, and a true coelom. 
Deuterostomia is a subtaxon of the Bilateria branch of the subkingdom Eumetazoa, within Animalia, and are distinguished from protostomes by their embryonic development; in deuterostomes, the first opening (the blastopore) becomes the anus, while in protostomes it becomes the mouth. Echinodermata, Hemichordata and Xenoturbellida form the clade Ambulacraria. The present phylum Priapulida also has a deuterostomic development, despite being otherwise placed within the protostomes. In both deuterostomes and protostomes, a zygote first develops into a hollow ball of cells, called a blastula. In deuterostomes, the early divisions occur parallel or perpendicular to the polar axis. This is called radial cleavage, and also occurs in certain protostomes, such as the lophophorates
Most invertebrates are protostomes. Deuterostomes refer to an animal whose anus is formed from the blastopore and later, the mouth forms... Echinoderms which are sea stars, sea cucumbers and all vertebrates --animals with backbones, develop in this way and are deuterostomes. Phylum Arthropoda are organisms which have jointed appendages and include: Crustaceans, Insects, Spiders to name a few. They are invertebrates.They are protostomes. This refers to an animal whose mouth is formed from the blastopore during embryonic development.