CTA can be used to examine blood vessels in many key areas of the body, including the brain, kidneys, pelvis, and the lungs. Under some circumstances the coronary arteries may be examined by CTA, but CTA has not replaced invasive catheter coronary angiography. The procedure is able to detect narrowing of blood vessels in time for corrective therapy to be done.
CT angiography uses a CT scanner to produce detailed images of both blood vessels and tissues in various parts of the body. An iodine-rich contrast material (dye) is usually injected through a small catheter placed in a vein of the arm. Angiography uses one of three imaging technologies and, in most cases, a contrast material injection is needed to produce pictures of blood vessels in the body.
A computerized tomography scan, or CT scan, is a type of X-ray that uses a computer to make cross-sectional images of your body. The media injected to perform CT angiography is called a contrast material because it lights up blood vessels and tissues that are being studied. To evaluate a tumor that is fed by blood vessels. Information from CT angiography may help prevent a stroke or a heart attack. This type of test may also help your doctor plan cancer treatment or prepare you for a kidney transplant. Your doctor may have other reasons for ordering this test.
Computed tomography angiography (also called CT angiography or CTA) is a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body. Under some circumstances the coronary arteries may be examined by CTA, but CTA has not replaced invasive catheter coronary angiography. The procedure is able to detect narrowing of blood vessels in time for corrective therapy to be done.
America’s Most Advanced Heart Screening Technology. A remarkable technology called Coronary CT Angiography (CTA) can provide the earliest possible evidence of developing coronary artery disease, the condition that leads to heart attacks. Coronary CTA can also provide the reassurance of knowing that your healthy lifestyle is helping to prevent one. Coronary CTA is a procedure so advanced, only a handful of practices nationwide have the experience, expertise,and technology to provide it. Fortunately, one of them is at Atlantic Medical Imaging. Both the Galloway location and the Wall Township location offers Coronary CTA.
1 A coronary computed tomography angiogram (CTA) uses advanced CT technology, along with intravenous (IV) contrast material (dye), to obtain high-resolution, 3D pictures of the moving heart and great vessels. 2  CTA is also called multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT), cardiac CT or cardiac CAT. 1 CTA is also called multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT), cardiac CT or cardiac CAT. 2  During CTA, x-rays pass through the body and are picked up by detectors in the scanner, that produce 3D images on a computer screen.
CT angiography is used to examine blood vessels and the organs supplied by them in various body parts, including: 1  brain. 2  neck. 3  heart. 4  chest. 5  abdomen (such as the kidneys and liver). Angiography uses one of three imaging technologies and, in most cases, a contrast material injection is needed to produce pictures of blood vessels in the body.
1 CTA is used as a noninvasive method for detecting blockages in the coronary arteries. 2  A CTA can be performed much faster (in less than one minute) than a cardiac catheterization, with potentially less risk and discomfort as well as decreased recovery time. 3  View photos of CT angiography. 1 CTA is also called multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT), cardiac CT or cardiac CAT. 2  During CTA, x-rays pass through the body and are picked up by detectors in the scanner, that produce 3D images on a computer screen.
CT angiography is a type of medical exam that combines a CT scan with an injection of a contrast media to produce pictures of blood vessels and tissues in a part of your body. The contrast is injected through an intravenous (IV) line started in your arm or hand. To evaluate a tumor that is fed by blood vessels. Information from CT angiography may help prevent a stroke or a heart attack. This type of test may also help your doctor plan cancer treatment or prepare you for a kidney transplant. Your doctor may have other reasons for ordering this test.
CT Angiography (CTA). Computed tomography angiography (CTA) uses an injection of iodine-rich contrast material and CT scanning to help diagnose and evaluate blood vessel disease or related conditions, such as aneurysms or blockages. Angiography uses one of three imaging technologies and, in most cases, a contrast material injection is needed to produce pictures of blood vessels in the body.