The Climate of Mount Everest. Mount Everest has an extreme climate. In none of the month the temper ature on Mount Everest is above freezing. In this page you can find some information about climate on Everest that may help you on your trip to Mount Everest. ♦ Temperature of Mt. Everest. Its summit temperatures in January average -33° F (-36° C) and can drop to -76° F (-60° C), and its average summit temperature in July is -2° F (-19° C).
Chimborazo in Ecuador has an altitude of 6,310 meters (20,703 feet). Mount Everest has a higher altitude and Mauna Kea is taller. However, Chimborazo has the distinction of being the highest mountain above Earth's center. Depending upon how you define highest mountain, Mount Everest has some rivals! Highest Altitude: An altitude of 8,850 meters (29,035 feet) above sea level makes Mount Everest the mountain on Earth with the highest altitude. Highest altitude means that it has the highest elevation above mean sea level.
Animals found on Everest. There are not many animals that can be found near the top of Mount Everest because it is just too high. The conditions are very cold and there isn’t as much oxygen so animals have to adapt to survive. The bottom of Mount Everest has forests of pine and hemlock trees. In these forests live animals such as musk deer, pikas (an animal a little bit like a rabbit or a hare) and Himalayan tahrs.
Biomes of Nepal: Nepal is in southern Asia. It has two biomes they are Evergreen Forest and Mountain Zone Biomes. In sourthen Nepal we find Evergreen forest and in North we found Mountain Zone. 50% Nepal is Forest & 25% is Mountains.Rest are 15% is water and 10% land.
The air is also very dry and has a very low precipitation level. The mountains rise from the plains of northern India which are about 1,000 feet above sea level. From these plains many of the mountains rise more than 3 miles above sea level; Mount Everest is 29,028 feet above sea level. Many people have climbed Mount Everest, and right now a man is attempting to become the first blind man to reach the summit. by Patrick T. 2001 bibliography Hafner, James A. Ph.D., Prof. of Geography and Director, Asian Studies, Univ. of Massachusetts.
Some biotic things on mount everest are the plants and animals.Some examples of animals are snow leopards,black bears,red pandas,wolves,deer and ibex,and hares.Some examples of plants are firs,junipers,blue pines,and bamboos. 
Mount Everest is located in the Himalayas, a mountain range between India and China in Asia. Mount Everest is on the border between the mountainous countries of Nepal and Tibe … t. 51 people found this useful. 1 Measuring the Height of Mount Everest Mount Everest has enjoyed a mythical place in the minds of men for many years. 2  Straddling the border of China and Nepal, the mountain is officially 29,028 feet high. 3  There is….
Mount Everest is called the world's highest mountain because it has the highest elevation above sea level . We could also say that it has the highest altitude. The peak of Mount Everest is 8,850 meters (29,035 feet) above sea level. No other mountain on Earth has a higher altitude. However, some mountains might be considered taller (with taller being the total vertical distance between their base and their summit). Depending upon how you define highest mountain, Mount Everest has some rivals! Highest Altitude: An altitude of 8,850 meters (29,035 feet) above sea level makes Mount Everest the mountain on Earth with the highest altitude. Highest altitude means that it has the highest elevation above mean
PEOPLE AND THE ALPINE BIOME: You’ve probably heard of mount Everest and the Sherpas who help people climb it. The Sherpas are naturally born mountaineers! They live in the Himalayas and are the world’s highest living population. They are physically adapted to live in the alpine biome. 
Back to Alpine Biomes. The Himalayan Alpine range is located in Asia in the countries of Nepal, Tibet (China), India, Pakistan and Bhutan. The range makes a curve of 1,500 miles through Southern Asia. Because the Himalayan mountain range is at a high altitude the air is very thin. Many people have climbed Mount Everest, and right now a man is attempting to become the first blind man to reach the summit. by Patrick T. 2001 bibliography Hafner, James A. Ph.D., Prof. of Geography and Director, Asian Studies, Univ. of Massachusetts.