In 1920, the Alaska Railroad built its Willow station house at mile 185.7 along the tracks leading from Seward to Fairbanks. During World War II, a radar warning station and airfield were built near the railroad tracks; a post office was established in 1948. In 1976, Alaskans elected to move the state capital from Juneau to Willow in an effort to improve access for Alaskans while keeping the capital out of Anchorage, the largest city. Landscape architect M. Paul Friedberg created a master plan for the city as part of one such proposal.
2015 WACO Educational Grant/Scholarship application form available for printout on the FORMS tab above. Current Sunshine Transit Schedule Willow Community Calendar This web site is a service for the community of Willow, Alaska. Willow is located in the Matanuska-Susitna Borough in the U.S. state of Alaska. On Wednesday, November 11th 2015, Dr. Lane will be giving free dental exams, x-rays, and cleanings to veterans (they will need to bring their military ID). Because of the size of our dental office, we are not accepting walk-ins and appointments will need to be scheduled ahead of time.
Average climate in Willow, Alaska. Based on data reported by over 4,000 weather stations. Willow-area historical earthquake activity is above Alaska state average. It is 830% greater than the overall U.S. average. Willow compared to Alaska state average: 1  Median house value below state average. 2  Black race population percentage significantly below state average. 3  Hispanic race population percentage significantly below state average.
W A C O. Dr. Lane and the team here at Willow Dental are planning a day to show our appreciation for our local veterans here in Willow. On Wednesday, November 11th 2015, Dr. Lane will be giving free dental exams, x-rays, and cleanings to veterans (they will need to bring their military ID). Because of the size of our dental office, we are not accepting walk-ins and appointments will need to be scheduled ahead of time.
Pretty ordinary greasy spoon stuff, but hey, this is Willow, and it's not bad! If you are headed to the Willow TP, you are probably from the area and don't need my review anyway. Enjoy yer... more. 1  Find Nearby: 2  ATMs 3  ·. Hotels 4  ·. Night Clubs 5  ·. Parkings 6  ·. Movie Theatres ·. Pretty ordinary greasy spoon stuff, but hey, this is Willow, and it's not bad! If you are headed to the Willow TP, you are probably from the area and don't need my review anyway. Enjoy yer... more. 1  Find Nearby: 2  ATMs 3  ·. Hotels 4  ·. Night Clubs ·.
Willow is a census-designated place (CDP) in the Matanuska-Susitna Borough in the U.S. state of Alaska. It is part of the Anchorage, Alaska Metropolitan Statistical Area. At the 2010 census the population was 2,102. In 1976, Alaskans elected to move the state capital from Juneau to Willow in an effort to improve access for Alaskans while keeping the capital out of Anchorage, the largest city. Landscape architect M. Paul Friedberg created a master plan for the city as part of one such proposal.
5.9%. According to our research of Alaska and other state lists there were 11 registered sex offenders living in Willow, Alaska as of October 07, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Willow to the number of sex offenders is 191 to 1. Willow compared to Alaska state average: 1  Median house value below state average. 2  Black race population percentage significantly below state average. 3  Hispanic race population percentage significantly below state average.
NonProfitFacts.com is not associated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by Willow Area Seniors Incorporated and has no official or unofficial affiliation with Willow Area Seniors Incorporated. Did the organization provide a grant or other assistance to an officer, director, trustee, key employee, substantial contributor or employee thereof, a grant selection committee member, or to a 35% controlled entity or family member of any of these persons?
Live the Alaska Dream on 1 Private Acre with Kelly Lake Access through Private Easement! 3 Bedrooms+440 sft BONUS ... 39.97 acres raw land approx 1 mile south of Willow and approx 3/4 of a mile ea st of Parks Hwy Mile 67.5 Bordered ...