Ativan ® is a type of prescription medicine called a benzodiazepine. Doctors often use this kind of medicine to treat patients who have anxiety disorders for a short period of time. Sometimes doctors will give Ativan to relieve anxiety when you are going to have surgery. Doing so is dangerous as well as against the law. Ativan
A: Ativan (lorazepam) is a benzodiazepine drug that acts as an anxiolytic (anti-anxiety drug), amnesic, sedative/hypnotic, anticonvulsant, and muscle relaxant. It's used for the short-term treatment of anxiety, insomnia, acute seizures, and sedation of hospitalized or aggressive patients. A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety. It belongs to a class of medications known as benzodiazepines which help to produce a calming effect by acting on the brain and nerves (central nervous system).
A: Lorazepam (Ativan) is a benzodiazepine used for the management of anxiety disorders or for short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety which is associated with depressive symptoms. The most common side effects with lorazepam are drowsiness, sedation and respiratory depression (shallow breathing). A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety. It belongs to a class of medications known as benzodiazepines which help to produce a calming effect by acting on the brain and nerves (central nervous system).
Uses. This medication is used to treat anxiety. Lorazepam belongs to a class of drugs known as benzodiazepines which act on the brain and nerves (central nervous system) to produce a calming effect. This drug works by enhancing the effects of a certain natural chemical in the body (GABA).
Ativan is specifically approved to treat anxiety disorders; it is not approved for everyday anxiety that most people get before a stressful event. It is also approved for the short-term relief of anxiety symptoms associated with depression. 
Lorazepam is in a class of medicines called benzodiazepines. Your doctors may have prescribed lorazepam to treat anxiety or anxiety that is associated with depression. Lorazepam comes as the brand name Ativan®. You take lorazepam by mouth, as either a tablet or liquid. Lorazepam is the name of an antianxiety medicine. Lorazepam is in a class of medicines called benzodiazepines. Your doctors may have prescribed lorazepam to treat anxiety or anxiety that is associated with depression. Lorazepam comes as the brand name Ativan ® . You take lorazepam by mouth, as either a tablet or liquid. You can take lorazepam with or without foo
Ativan is a classified as a 3-hypoxy benzodiazepine prescription medication used primarily for short-term treatment of anxiety, seizures, insomnia and as a sedative for hospitalized or aggressive patients. 
Uses of This Medicine. Lorazepam is used to treat anxiety. This medicine is a benzodiazepine. Benzodiazepines belong to the group of medicines called central nervous system (CNS) depressants, which are medicines that slow down the nervous system. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. 
BRAND NAME: Ativan. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Lorazepam is a drug used for treating anxiety. It is in the benzodiazepine family of drugs, the same family that includes diazepam (Valium), alprazolam (Xanax), clonazepam (Klonopin), flurazepam (Dalmane), and others.