The PNS is further divided in to the somatic nervous system, which is responsible for voluntary control of body movements, and the autonomous nervous system (ANS), which is responsible for the unconscious regulation of the internal organs, glands and hormones. The Hypothalamus. The primary function of the hypothalamus is to link the nervous system to the endocrine system by way of the pituitary gland. It creates and secretes neurohormones which stimulate or inhibit the secretion of pituitary hormones.
The Nervous System. The human nervous system is broadly divided in to two sections, the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS is made up of the brain and the spinal cord. The PNS is made up of the nerves which radiate out from the spinal cord to the rest of the body. The Hypothalamus. The primary function of the hypothalamus is to link the nervous system to the endocrine system by way of the pituitary gland. It creates and secretes neurohormones which stimulate or inhibit the secretion of pituitary hormones.
Structure. The nervous system is divided into two parts: 1  the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord. 2  These structures are protected by bone and cushioned from injury by the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). 3  the peripheral system which connects the central nervous system to the rest of the body. The nervous system has three general functions: a sensory function, an interpretative function and a motor function. 1  Sensory nerves gather information from inside the body and the outside environment. 2  The nerves then carry the information to central nervous system (CNS).
Overview. The nervous system is organized into two parts: the central nervous system, which consists of the brain and the spinal cord, and the peripheral nervous system, which connects the central nervous system to the rest of the body. An image depicting the central nervous system can be seen below. 
The Central Nervous System and the Peripheral Nervous System. The structure of the nervous system is divided into two main systems: the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. The central nervous system (CNS) contains the brain and the spinal cord. 
Nerves. Nerves are bundles of axons in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) that act as information highways to carry signals between the brain and spinal cord and the rest of the body. Each axon is wrapped in a connective tissue sheath called the endoneurium. 
In vertebrate species it consists of two main parts, the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS contains the brain and spinal cord. The PNS consists mainly of nerves, which are enclosed bundles of the long fibers or axons, that connect the CNS to every other part of the body. At the cellular level, the nervous system is defined by the presence of a special type of cell, called the neuron, also known as a nerve cell. Neurons have special structures that allow them to send signals rapidly and precisely to other cells.
The nervous system is a complex collection of nerves and specialized cells known as neurons that transmit signals between different parts of the body. It is essentially the body’s electrical wiring. Structurally, the nervous system has two components: the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. 
The nervous system is divided into two parts: 1  the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord. 2  the peripheral system which connects the central nervous system to the rest of the body. The nervous system has three general functions: a sensory function, an interpretative function and a motor function. 1  Sensory nerves gather information from inside the body and the outside environment. 2  The nerves then carry the information to central nervous system (CNS).
The hindbrain is thought to be the oldest part of the nervous system structure, and is made up of the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla oblongata. The cerebellum is located underneath the cerebrum, and is primarily a center of movement control, regulation and coordination, and balance and posture. The Hypothalamus. The primary function of the hypothalamus is to link the nervous system to the endocrine system by way of the pituitary gland. It creates and secretes neurohormones which stimulate or inhibit the secretion of pituitary hormones.