This is dirty work, so wear old clothes when you do it. This is best done with mud that is made from clay (the soil, not the sculpting material) such as Georgia red clay. Firs … t, wet a spot on the ground so that you can have mud. In the building process, a person would sculpt a head by slowly adding more and … more clay until there is a head shape. Once the head is made, but before it dries the person would have to cut the clay head in half, and scrape out the inside (anything thicker than an inch could blow up in the kiln).
Report Abuse. Depends. You're not really a sculpture if you make sculptures without sculpture. Some people assemble lumps of trash together and call it a sculpture. If someone makes sculptures out of stone, clay, wood, ect. they can be considered a sculptor. If lumping together crap they found they make a lot more money and are called an artist. _____________POOT_______________ · 6 years ago. Thumbs up
Not to be confused with statute. The Thinker, by Rodin c. 1902, Bronze, Copenhagen. A statue is a sculpture representing one or more people or animals (including abstract concepts allegorically represented as people or animals), normally full-length, as opposed to a bust, and at least close to life-size, or larger. A small statue, usually small enough to be picked up, is called a statuette or figurine.
A person who sculpts is a sculptor, or in general an artist. In the building process, a person would sculpt a head by slowly adding more and … more clay until there is a head shape. Once the head is made, but before it dries the person would have to cut the clay head in half, and scrape out the inside (anything thicker than an inch could blow up in the kiln).
Stone sculpture is the result of forming 3-dimensional visually interesting objects from stone. It is an ancient activity where pieces of rough natural stone are shaped by the controlled removal of stone. 
The Vitruvian man by Leonardo da Vinci is a study of how a human figure can be fitted into two geometric shapes, the circle and the square. The term Renaissance man or polymath is used for a very clever person who is good at many different things. The idea comes from a time of history called the Renaissance which lasted from about 1400 to about 1600. One of the most famous people alive during this time was Leonardo da Vinci. He was most famous as a painter, but he was also a scientist, engineer and mathematician. Leonardo is called a Renaissance man. Another Renaissance man was Michelangelo, who was a sculptor, painter, architect and poet. When the term Renaissance man is used, it does not mean that the man really lived in the Renaissance. It can be used for anyone who is very clever at many different things, no matter when that person lived
Easier-Sculpture is the act and art of making three-dimensional works of art such as statues. A statue is an image such as a person or animal that is sculpted in a solid substance. The Statue of Liberty and Rodin's The Thinker are two well-known statues. Sculptures may be carved, chiseled, modeled, cast, or constructed. They can be made of many different materials such as wood, stone, clay, metal, sand, ice, and even balloons. A person who creates sculpture is called an sculptor. Harder-Sculptors use many different materials in their work such as stone, bronze, clay, iron, steel, paper, metal, marble, wood, soap, chocolate, butter, balloons, ice, snow, and sand. 
One's identity as a person is closely connected with one's experience of space and place. When a known space is changed through the inclusion of a site-specific sculpture, one is called upon to related to the space differently. This is a condition that can be engendered only by sculpture. 
The world's tallest statue, Spring Temple Buddha, is over 400 feet (153 m). Many statues are built on commission to commemorate a historical event, or the life of an influential person. Many statues are intended as public art, exhibited outdoors or in public buildings. A small statue, usually small enough to be picked up, is called a statuette or figurine.