As sound waves vibrate the tympanic membrane (eardrum), it in turn moves the nearest ossicle, the malleus, to which it is attached. The malleus then transmits the vibrations, via the incus, to the stapes, and so ultimately to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, the opening to the vestibule of the inner ear. The structure is known as the middle ear, and is made up of the stapes, incus, malleus, and tympanic membrane. These correspond to the columella, quadrate, articular, and angular structures in the amphibian, bird or reptile jaw.
The Hearing Process. In the course of hearing, sound waves enter the auditory canal and strike the eardrum, causing it to vibrate. The sound waves are concentrated by passing from a relatively large area (the eardrum) through the ossicles to a relatively small opening leading to the inner ear. Here the stirrup vibrates, setting in motion the fluid of the cochlea.
1 The eardrum vibrates because of the soundwaves. 2  This vibration is picked up by the ossicles and transmitted through the middle ear to the oval window. 3  Therefore it is the soundwaves causing the eardrum to vibrate that ultimately makes the ossicles vibrate. The stapes (aka stirrup) is the smallest of the three auditory  ossicles of the middle ear. These little bones amplify and  transmit sound vibrations from the tympanic mem … brane (eardrum) to  the oval window. The stapes is in direct contact with the oval  window. F J Eagle.
The ossicles (also called auditory ossicles) are three bones in either middle ear that are among the smallest bones in the human body. They serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth (cochlea). The structure is known as the middle ear, and is made up of the stapes, incus, malleus, and tympanic membrane. These correspond to the columella, quadrate, articular, and angular structures in the amphibian, bird or reptile jaw.
Ossicle Vibration. The vibration of the eardrum is transmitted to the oval window of the inner ear by means of the ossicles, which achieve an amplification by lever action. The lever is adjustable under muscle action and may actually attenuate loud sounds for protection of the ear. The three tiniest bones in the body form the coupling between the vibration of the eardrum and the forces exerted on the oval window of the inner ear.
The Middle Ear is the portion of the ear internal to the eardrum, and external to the oval window of the inner ear. Also mammalian middle ear contains three ossicles, which transfers the vibrations of the eardrum into waves in the fluid and membranes of the inner ear. The hollow space of the middle ear has also been called the tympanic cavity, or cavum tympani. The ossicles directly couple sound energy from the ear drum to the oval window of the cochlea. While the stapes is present in all tetrapods, the malleus and incus evolved from lower and upper jaw bones present in reptiles. See Evolution of mammalian auditory ossicles.
1 The sound waves, coming through the auditory canal, strike the tympanic membrane (eardrum). 2  The eardrum vibrates because of the soundwaves. 3  This vibration is picked up by the ossicles and transmitted through the middle ear to the oval window. The stapes (aka stirrup) is the smallest of the three auditory  ossicles of the middle ear. These little bones amplify and  transmit sound vibrations from the tympanic mem … brane (eardrum) to  the oval window. The stapes is in direct contact with the oval  window. F J Eagle.
The ossicles are, in order from the eardrum to the inner ear (from superficial to deep): the malleus, incus, and stapes, terms that in Latin are translated as the hammer, anvil, and stirrup . The structure is known as the middle ear, and is made up of the stapes, incus, malleus, and tympanic membrane. These correspond to the columella, quadrate, articular, and angular structures in the amphibian, bird or reptile jaw.
1 This vibration is picked up by the ossicles and transmitted through the middle ear to the oval window. 2  Therefore it is the soundwaves causing the eardrum to vibrate that ultimately makes the ossicles vibrate. The stapes (aka stirrup) is the smallest of the three auditory  ossicles of the middle ear. These little bones amplify and  transmit sound vibrations from the tympanic mem … brane (eardrum) to  the oval window. The stapes is in direct contact with the oval  window. F J Eagle.