A good example is the Auroch, which was pretty much identical to modern oxen with the exception of its size: this dino-cow weighed about a ton, and one imagines that the males of the species were significantly more aggressive than modern bulls. One little-known fact about the Auroch is that it actually comprised three separate subspecies. The most famous, Bos primigenius primigenius, was native to Eurasia, and is the animal depicted in the Lascaux cave paintings.
au·rochs. n. pl. aurochs. 1. A wild ox (Bos primigenius) of Europe, northern Africa, and western Asia that became extinct in the 17th century and is believed to be the ancestor of domestic cattle. Also called urus. aurochs. n, pl-rochs. 1. (Animals) a recently extinct member of the cattle tribe, Bos primigenius, that inhabited forests in N Africa, Europe, and SW Asia. It had long horns and is thought to be one of the ancestors of modern cattle.
These cattle are the result of an attempt to breed back the extinct aurochs from modern aurochs-derived cattle in the 1920s and 1930s. Controversy revolves around methodology and success of the program. There are considerable differences between Heck cattle and the aurochs. Aurochs bulls are believed to have exceeded weights of between 700 and 1000 kg (2,200 lb). Size is not the only aspect in which Heck cattle differs from its wild ancestor. Heck cattle are bulky like many other domestic breeds, while the aurochs, as a wild bovine, had an athletic body shape.
The Indian Auroch, Bos primigenius namadicus, was domesticated a few thousand years ago into what are now known as Zebu cattle, and the North African Auroch (Bos primigenius africanus) is the most obscure of the three, likely descended from a population native to the Middle East. One little-known fact about the Auroch is that it actually comprised three separate subspecies. The most famous, Bos primigenius primigenius, was native to Eurasia, and is the animal depicted in the Lascaux cave paintings.
Aurochs, or Bos primigenius, died out in 1627 in Poland. They were a large breed of cattle, standing up to 1.8m in height, and was ancestor to modern domestic breeds. Aurochs had huge curved horns that characterised the breed – in some the horns could reach 80cm in length – and their legs were longer than modern cattle. 
au·rochs. n. pl. aurochs. 1. A wild ox (Bos primigenius) of Europe, northern Africa, and western Asia that became extinct in the 17th century and is believed to be the ancestor of domestic cattle. Also called urus. aurochs. n, pl-rochs. 1. (Animals) a recently extinct member of the cattle tribe, Bos primigenius, that inhabited forests in N Africa, Europe, and SW Asia. It had long horns and is thought to be one of the ancestors of modern cattle.
The aurochs (/ˈɔːrɒks/ or /ˈaʊrɒks/ ; pl. aurochs, or rarely aurochsen, aurochses), also urus, ure (Bos primigenius), is a grand extinct wild ox that inhabited Europe, Asia and North Africa. It is the ancestor of domestic cattle. 1 The Indian aurochs (Bos primigenius namadicus) once inhabited India. 2  It was the first subspecies of the aurochs to appear, at 2 million years ago, and from about 9,000 years ago (BP), it was domesticated as the zebu cattle.
Definition of AUROCHS. : an extinct large long-horned wild ox (Bos primigenius) of Europe that is the ancestor of domestic cattle. See aurochs defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Aurochs. 3,549 pages on this wiki. The aurochs, also urus, ure (Bos primigenius), the ancestor of domestic cattle, is an extinct type of large wild cattle that inhabited Europe, Asia and North Africa; they survived in Europe until the last recorded aurochs, a female, died in the Jaktorow Jaktorów, Forest poland in. 1627 1 The Indian Aurochs (Bos primigenius namadicus) once inhabited India. 2  It was the first subspecies of the aurochs to appear, at 2 million years ago, and from about 9,000 years ago (BP), it was domesticated as the zebu cattle.