Noun. 1. exacerbation-action that makes a problem or a disease (or its symptoms) worse; the aggravation of her condition resulted from lack of care. aggravation. intensification-action that makes something stronger or more extreme.
Exacerbation: A worsening. In medicine, exacerbation may refer to an increase in the severity of a disease or its signs and symptoms. For example, an exacerbation of asthma might occur as a serious effect of air pollution, leading to shortness of breath. 
Exacerbation means signs and symptoms have gotten worse. Acute exacerbation of a disease means the disease has been there right along, but lately it's acting up. For example, in this season in our area (spring), I see many patients with acute exacerbation of allergies.
• EXACERBATION (noun). The noun EXACERBATION has 2 senses: 1. action that makes a problem or a disease (or its symptoms) worse. 2. violent and bitter exasperation. Familiarity information: EXACERBATION used as a noun is rare. Nouns denoting acts or actions. Synonyms: exacerbation; aggravation. Context example: the aggravation of her condition resulted from lack of care. Hypernyms (exacerbation is a kind of...): intensification (action that makes something stronger or more extreme).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Acute exacerbation of COPD also known as acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB) is a sudden worsening of COPD symptoms (shortness of breath, quantity and color of phlegm) that typically lasts for several days. It may be triggered by an infection with bacteria or viruses or by environmental pollutants. Shortness of breath and wheezing are present in many cases. Exacerbations may be accompanied by increased amount of cough and sputum productions, and a change in appearance of sputum. An abrupt worsening in COPD symptoms may cause rupture of the airways in the lungs, which in turn may cause a spontaneous pneumothorax.
Confidence votes 41. In medical context; exacerbation means a period when a chronic illness becomes more active and there is a recurrence of pronounced signs and symptoms of the disease. it comes with other terminologies such as Remission and progressive degenaration and it falls under chronic illnesses category. 
Exacerbation means worsening or a flare up of COPD. An exacerbation can be from an infection in the lung, but in some instances it is never known why people have a worsening of symptoms. The amount and color of your sputum is important to note. A change in the amount of sputum (either bringing up more or bringing up less than usual), a change in the color of your sputum from clear to deep yellow, green, brown or red, and increasing shortness of breath are typical signs and symptoms of an exacerbation.
In medical context; exacerbation means a period when a chronic illness becomes more active and there is a recurrence of pronounced signs and symptoms of the disease. it comes … with other terminologies such as Remission and progressive degenaration and it falls under chronic illnesses category. Acute exacerbation of a disease means the disease has been there right along, but lately it's acting up. For example, in this season in our area (spring), I see many patients with acute exacerbation of allergies.
Definition and Etiology. An exacerbation of COPD is defined as an event in the natural course of the disease characterized by a change in the patient's baseline dyspnea, cough, and/or sputum that is beyond normal day-to-day variations; is acute in onset; and may warrant a change in regular medication.