Eurythmy. Eurythmy is an expressive movement art originated by Rudolf Steiner in conjunction with Marie von Sivers in the early 20th century. Primarily a performance art, it is also used in education, especially in Waldorf schools, and as a movement therapy.
Eurythmy is an artistic movement discipline that addresses body, soul and spirit. It does this through a practice of embodied gestures that correspond to sounds of speech and musical tones. These gestures are woven together into choreography and presented as artful composition on stage.
Eurythmy is a new art form created by Rudolf Steiner. Eurythmy is an art, like modern dance or sculpture. In a slightly modified form, it can also be applied therapeutically, similar to the way the painting can be applied as a form of therapy, known as Art Therapy. Images. Quotes. Rudolf Steiner: That is the essential point — that Eurythmy is visible speech, visible music.
The movement art of eurythmy draws upon profound spiritual insight. Every gesture of eurythmy engages body, soul and spirit. In addition to being a beautiful performing art, eurythmy is a therapeutic modality, a special subject in schools, a tool in business consulting and team building. The gestures of eurythmy are not only emotionally expressive: they are drawn from the same fount of form and movement as intelligence and love as the sounds of speech and music. In the beginning, the eurythmy students experiences how these sounds teach us how we are connected to our deep spiritual sources.
Eurythmy is an expressive movement art originated by Rudolf Steiner in conjunction with Marie von Sivers in the early 20th century. Primarily a performance art, it is also used in education, especially in Waldorf schools, and – as part of anthroposophic medicine – for claimed therapeutic purposes. Eurythmy has only occasionally been done to popular music, in which beat plays a large role. The timbre of individual instruments is brought into the quality both of the tonal gestures and of the whole movement of the eurythmist.
I. Eurythmy Therapy. Eurythmy therapy is a highly effective exercise therapy with a holistic approach: in addition to the physical symptoms is also considered the situation of vital force, mental situation, motivation, and in particular the way in which the disease did develop. Eurythmy therapy is an essential pillar of this branch of therapy. It is one of the standard treatments of all anthroposophical clinics and sanatoriums, and in therapeutics and established free clinics offered in collaboration with a doctor.
Form – movement – language, all “sound” the essential nature of the world in different ways. Eurythmy is a movement art that brings all three together. It gives expression to the whole voice of the human being and the world language, through movement, color and form. 
Definition of EURYTHMY. : a system of harmonious body movement to the rhythm of spoken words. 
Eurythmy works the physical body through a practice of discipline, it works the life body (also called one’s movement or etheric body) through a practice of sensitivity, and works one’s connection to spirit-archetype through meditative inquiry. It does this through a practice of embodied gestures that correspond to sounds of speech and musical tones. These gestures are woven together into choreography and presented as artful composition on stage.