Not all documents have a DOI, but those that do should include the DOI in the citation. *For articles retrieved through a database that do not have a DOI, check to see if the article is available at the publication’s website. If so, include the publication’s web address in your citation (ex. Retrieved from http://content.nejm.org). If the article is not available on the web, include the name of the database in your citation (ex. 
Database information. CRS reports provide excellent background information on areas of public policy. The reports are generated by researchers working within the Library of Congress and are created at the request of Members of Congress or their committees. 
Reference page entry for a CRS report that does not have another report by the same author and title for that year. Kuenzi, J. J. (2011). A highly qualified teacher in every classroom: Implementation of the No Child Left Behind Act and reauthorization issues for the 112th Congress (Report No. RL33333). In-text citation: According to example 9 on page 220, you should include the name of the act and the year. Examples: 1) The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 changed the language instruction format to include English as a Second Language.
And notes that for online reports, the publisher would be identified as part of the retrieval statement: Retrieved from Agency name website: http://www.xxx. Therefore, a CRS report retrieved from the ProQuest Congressional database would be cited as: Author, A.A. (year, month day). Title of work (CRS Report No. xxx). If you want to create a full citation in the reference list and include a link (not an official requirement for either APA or Bluebook, but certainly nice for the reader), be sure to copy and paste the friendly link rather than the address in your browser.
List the name of the database from which you accessed the information and the URL in the following format: Retrieved from GAO Reports Main Page via GPO Access database: http://www.gpoaccess.gov/gaoreports/index.html. Be sure that your complete citation appears in the following format: Instructions. List the name of the author, followed by a period. When citing a GAO report, the author's name should appear as follows: U.S. Government Accountability Office. List the year and month of publication in the following format: (2009, August).
Citation Styles Tags: citation management. Learn how to cite articles, books, reports, theses, legal documents, and more using citation styles like APA, Chicago, and IEEE. Last Updated: Oct 1, 2015 URL: http://libguides.nps.edu/citation Print Guide. 1 In-text citations may be given as (Author, date) or Author (date), with all or only some of the information in parentheses. 2  Include the page number if you have it. 3  Date will be year only with the exception of personal communications.
Cite a CRS report according to APA 6th section 7.03 for the citation of Technical and Research Reports. The general form is: Author, A.A. (1998). Title of work (Report No. xxx). Location: Publisher. If you want to create a full citation in the reference list and include a link (not an official requirement for either APA or Bluebook, but certainly nice for the reader), be sure to copy and paste the friendly link rather than the address in your browser.
Write the report number and date in parenthesis after the title, followed by a comma. Locate the name of the report author. The author's name can be found at the top of the front page. If no author is identified, skip this step. Write by an then the author's first and last name, followed by a period. Note the database where you found the CRS report. If you were given the report by another party, locate the CRS report in a database for citation purposes. Proquest and Open CRS are common databases. Write Text in followed by colon, then followed by full name of database. End with a semi-colon. Complete the citation string with the date you accessed the material. 
Citation Styles Tags: citation management. Learn how to cite articles, books, reports, theses, legal documents, and more using citation styles like APA, Chicago, and IEEE. Web sources: Web page information. “Citations of site content are best relegated to notes; in works with no notes, they may be included in the reference list or bibliography” (CMS, Quick Citation Guide [QCG]). If no author, the owner of the site may stand in for the author.