Defrosted raw meat can be refrozen and cooked later, but the quality of the meat will be notably reduced. If the meat has been at room temperature for more than an hour or so, … bacterial growth may have been substantial, and then the refrozen meat may not be safe to eat later, even after being cooked. NO meat products should be refrozen, once thawed it should be cooked immediately, then it may be refrozen, as long as when it was frozen the first time it stayed frozen for … not much longer than 6 months. This is the recommended time limit for most frozen meat products. 8 people found this useful. Marcy M.
Report Abuse. once a meat has been frozen and then thawed it is not a good idea to refreeze. It can become frostbitten, go bad, and many other things. There is a possibilty it would be OK, but not a good one and it's not worth finding out. 
Yes, you can — but you may not want to. According to the USDA, when raw meat is thawed in the refrigerator, it is safe to refreeze it without cooking. For this reason, it's perfectly all right to purchase, say, a previously frozen piece of salmon, and then put it in your freezer when you get home. But if you refreeze thawed poultry or meat, you will be compromising quality of taste and texture. Not only does meat lose water during the defrosting process, but refreezing it also creates ice crystals within the structure of the meat that alter its fibers, leaving an unfortunately dry cut of meat.
The U. S. Dept. of Agriculture (USDA) advises: Once food is thawed in the refrigerator, it is safe to refreeze it without cooking, although there may be a loss of quality due to the moisture lost through thawing. After cooking raw foods which were previously frozen, it is safe to freeze the cooked foods. If previously cooked foods are thawed in the refrigerator, you may refreeze the unused portion. Freeze leftovers within 3-4 days. 
Anything can be refrozen.   Actually no, not everything can be refrozen. Cooked beef can be refrozen, fully cooked, tightly wrapped, and for not more than a month. Uncooked … meat can be refrozen if it does not reach room temperature, it must still be very cold or partly frozen. NO meat products should be refrozen, once thawed it should be cooked immediately, then it may be refrozen, as long as when it was frozen the first time it stayed frozen for … not much longer than 6 months. This is the recommended time limit for most frozen meat products. 8 people found this useful. Marcy M.
Frozen food defrosted or thawed in the refrigerator may be refrozen. However, the bacteria in food can multiply even at low temperatures. Refrigerating food will not stop bacterial growth: just slow it. So do not refreeze food that has be defrosted for some time even if it has been refrigerated the whole time. As per U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Meat and poultry defrosted in the refrigerator may be refrozen before or after cooking. If thawed by other methods, cook before refree … zing..
Do not refreeze. If food is completely thawed, warmed to room temperature or left out of the refrigerator for more than two hours, throw the food out for safety's sake. These principles apply to meat, poultry, shellfish, some vegetables and cooked foods. Many vegetables are safe to refreeze. 
The answer depends on how the meat was thawed. If you read any of the health and safety documentation it tends to stipulate that meat thawed in a refrigerator can be safety refrozen. Meat thawed by other methods, particularly if the temperature reaches 40°F–140°F (4°C–60°C) should be cooked before refreezing. 8. I've often been told by people that I shouldn't refreeze meat (particularly hamburger meat) once it has been thawed. However, this seems a little silly to me. I can't imagine how meat that hasn't been bought fresh and local could find its way to my kitchen with out thawing and being refrozen a couple of times.
It may be better to freeze the thawed meat after it has been cooked. Refreezing meat isn't a good idea. But if you must, the meat should not have been old the first time it was frozen, it should have been thawed under refrigeration and then frozen again shortly after being thawed. As per U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Meat and poultry defrosted in the refrigerator may be refrozen before or after cooking. If thawed by other methods, cook before refree … zing..