To be eligible for jury service, you must be at least 18 years of age, a citizen of the United States, a resident of the county in which you are to serve as a juror, and you must be able to communicate in English. If you have ever been convicted of a felony, you must have had your civil rights restored. 
To be legally qualified for jury service, an individual must: 1  be a United States citizen; 2  be at least 18 years of age; 3  reside primarily in the judicial district for one year; 4  be adequately proficient in English to satisfactorily complete the juror qualification form; 5  have no disqualifying mental or physical condition; 
Related Videos. 0. If you are seventy years of age or older you are not obligated to serve jury duty. You must show proof of your age in order to be permanently excused.Of course, if you are 70 or over and wish to serve you may. 4 Answers. 0. If you are over 70 years of age, you are not obligated to serve jury duty. You must show proof of your age in order to be permanently excused.Of course, if you are over 70and wish to serve, you may.
All jurors need to be at least 18 years of age. No citizen over 18 is excluded from consideration due to age. If your physician feels you are physically unable to perform the duties of a juror or are unable to travel to the courthouse, please ask her/him to submit a letter to the court supporting an exemption. 
However, if you are 75 years of age or older, you may be excused from jury duty at your request, in accordance with statutory grounds for excuse from juror service without requiring documentation of a medical condition or other grounds for excuse. ● Language-You are required to be able to read and understand English. A letter from your supervisor or a photocopy of your identification card with that group may be sufficient documentation. ● You are 75 years of age or older. There is not an upper age limit to serve as a juror. You must be at least 18 years of age to serve. However, if you are 75 years of age or older, you may be excused from jury duty at your request. No medical excuse is required
57. View. comments. The maximum age for jury service is to be raised to 75, ministers will announce today. Under existing rules, 69 is the age limit for a juror but the Government intends to change the law to include those aged 70 to 75. This will add two million to the list of potential jurors. 
A: Jury service in Orange County is for one day or one trial. If you are not selected to serve on a trial by the end of the first day and are not ordered by the Court to return for a second or subsequent day of jury selection, your service will be complete. Q: Do I have to perform jury service if I ’m over 70 years of age? A: There is no age exemption for jury service. If you are 70 years of age or older, the California Rules of Court allow you to be excused due to a medical condition without a doctor’s note. You must inform the court that you are not able to serve.
If assigned to a courtroom on the day you report for jury duty, you are required to follow the court’s appearance instructions for that trial. If you are selected to serve as a sworn juror or alternate, your length of service will be dependent on the length of the trial. Most trials average 4 to 5 days. 