With nerve damage there can be a wide array of symptoms. Which ones you may have depends on the location and type of nerves that are affected. Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 1 Motor neuron diseases. 2  The motor neurons are nerves in your brain and spinal column that communicate with the muscles throughout your body. 3  Diseases that affect these nerves, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Lou Gehrig’s disease, can result in progressively worsening nerve damage.
Optic nerve damage is any kind of injury or damage to the optic nerve, including trauma, inflammation, disease or deterioration. Optic nerve damage is also called optic nerve atrophy or optic neuropathy. The optic nerve is the nerve that connects and transmits information between the eye and the brain. Optic nerve damage can lead to vision distortion, vision loss, and blindness.
With nerve damage there can be a wide array of symptoms. Which ones you may have depends on the location and type of nerves that are affected. Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 2  Too much sweating (known as hyperhidrosis) or too little sweating (known as anhidrosis). 3  Lightheadedness.
The spinal accessory nerve is the eleventh of twelve cranial nerves, which originate in the brain. This nerve innervates the trapezius and sternomastoid muscles in the neck. The sternomastoid muscle allows the head to tilt and rotate. Causes of spinal accessory nerve injury. A spinal accessory nerve injury can be caused by trauma or damage during surgery, such as a lymph node biopsy or jugular vein cannulation.
Dorsal Nerve Root. Sections. A dorsal nerve root – also known as a posterior nerve root – is a main bundle of nerve fibers that branches off the spinal cord and goes to other areas of the body. Dorsal nerve roots are responsible for carrying signals of sensation (such as feelings of pain and temperature) from the body to the brain. A pair of spinal nerves branches out from each level of the spinal cord, one to the left and one to the right. Naturally, a left spinal nerve serves the left side of the body and a right spinal nerve serves the right side
The spinal cord comes off the base of the brain, runs throughout the cervical and thoracic spine, and ends at the lower part of the thoracic spine. Therefore, spinal cord injury or damage may accompany trauma or diseases of the cervical spine or thoracic spine. The spinal cord does not run through the lumbar spine (lower back). After the spinal cord stops in the lower thoracic spine, the nerve roots from the lumbar and sacral levels come off the bottom of the cord like a horse's tail (cauda equina) and exit the spine (view the spinal nerve roots with Figure 1).
Nerve pain and nerve damage is a common cause of chronic or long-term pain. Our nerves carry pain signals to the brain about damage to parts of the body, but nerves can also be a cause of pain themselves. This can be from damage to nerves because of medical conditions, through injury or pressure, such as a trapped nerve. 1 Motor neuron diseases. 2  The motor neurons are nerves in your brain and spinal column that communicate with the muscles throughout your body. 3  Diseases that affect these nerves, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Lou Gehrig’s disease, can result in progressively worsening nerve damage.
The spinal cord can be divided into segments according to the nerve roots that branch off of it. Nerves along the cord consists of 8 cervical nerves, 12 thoracic nerves, 5 lumbar nerves, 5 sacral nerves, and 1 coccygeal nerve. The spinal cord does not run through the lumbar spine (lower back). After the spinal cord stops in the lower thoracic spine, the nerve roots from the lumbar and sacral levels come off the bottom of the cord like a horse's tail (cauda equina) and exit the spine (view the spinal nerve roots with Figure 1).