The female lays 3-7 light blue eggs that are incubated for 12-14 days and the young leave the nest in about 14-16 days. These birds will return to the same territories from season to season. Sometimes they build a new nest on top of their old one. I've seen as many as three on top of one another.
• Robins live on average about 1 ½ years, but can live up to 5 years. They typically nest April through May and can have 2-3 broods in a season. The female does most of the nest building. It typically takes about 5-6 days to build the nest. You can put out a small pan of mud and nesting materials (short strings, yarn, dry grasses) and watch the robins come collect materials to make their nests. They lay about 4 eggs and the female incubates the eggs for 12-14 days.
Of those that survive their first year, most wild robins live to be about 5 or 6. As of February, 2001, the longest-living banded wild robin ever recorded had survived 13 years and 11 months, according to the Bird Banding Laboratory at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center.
The young leave the nest after 14 to 16 days and continue to be cared for by the parents for up to four weeks. Robins have two and sometimes three clutches of eggs each year. Nests may be used for multiple clutches; first-clutch nests may be built on top of nests from the previous year. Mortality Robins have a high mortality rate, with up to 80 percent of the young dying
The bowl-shaped nests are built in a bush, tree or under the eaves of buildings - 5 to 25 feet off the ground. The nest is 6 inches across and 4 to 6 inches high. The rounded inside area of the nest is about 3.5 to 4 inches in diameter, which is large enough to hold a baseball (see photo below).
The female typically lays two to four light blue eggs-about the size and weight of a quarter (see photo). The female incubates the eggs over a two-week period and both parents care for the young. The eggs take around two weeks to hatch and the chicks will fledge when they are about 12 to 14 days old.
Robins lay about four eggs and the female incubates the eggs for 12-14 days. Both parents guard the nest from danger. The babies are fully feathered in about 10 days and leave the nest in 14-16 days.