Jumping jacks are an ideal warm-up exercise. Five minutes of this exercise will increase your heart rate and get blood flowing to all your major muscle groups. The extra blood flow raises your body and muscle temperature, which gets your body ready for more vigorous exercise.
Classic jumping jacks provide a simple calisthenic exercise with many health benefits. For example, they can burn calories to help with weight management, improve your cardiovascular endurance and strengthen and tone your muscles.
Jumping jacks help you burn calories and tone your muscles. Getting a flat, eye-catching stomach that's ready for the beach isn't something that will happen overnight, but if you don't mind working hard, you'll be able to gradually achieve the look you desire.
Muscle Strength. Jumping jacks work the muscles in your shoulders, abs and legs. If you add dumbbells, move your hands between your shoulders and raised into a V position, rather than bringing them down to your sides. This motion will strengthen your shoulders.
Jumping jacks can help you trim up your tummy, as long as you do them for long enough periods and frequently enough. While no exercise will focus the spot from which you’ll lose fat, as you lower your body fat percentage, you’ll notice changes in your waist circumference.
Although jumping jacks are effective on their own, you can add weight to your body to increase the challenge of this exercise. Ankle weights, wrist weights and even a weighted vest will require your body to work harder, which will help exercise your muscles and burn calories even faster.
HOW TO DO A JUMPING JACK. 1  Stand with your feet together and your hands down by your side. 2  In one motion jump your feet out to the side and raise your arms above your head.
Think about the body parts you are utilizing while executing jumping jacks-your arms and legs in particular. In addition, jumping jacks are a form of aerobics, so if done properly, you are achieving a workout for your whole body. Jumping ...