Maca root is Peru’s national secret to be more vital, increase fertility, boost libido and to balance hormones. High altitude packed with nutrients and minerals, maca is an excellent food and dietary supplement. The root contains alkaloids not found. in any other plant so far. In Peru, women are using maca root not only as a powerful source of nutrition, but also to balance hormones, for fertility reasons, to improve sexual desire, to treat depression, and to increase energy and stamina.
For starters, maca root is believed to be an aphrodisiac. Theoretically, something that increases the frequency of sexual intercourse would likely have an impact on fertility. Maca root does contain certain prostaglandins and sterols that may influence sexual desire [source: Hermann, et. al ]. Unfortunately, reports of the mood-enhancing effects of maca root are largely anecdotal [source: Zelman ].
Maca root has the capability to regulate, support, and balance the hormonal systems of both men and women. Hello promising anti-acne herb! And since it’s boosting the hormones, it may also help with fertility, digestion, energy levels, and all things sexual. Don’t over do the dosage (a teaspoon/5 grams is a good place to start), take it slow and gradually increase as you go. If you have thyroid disease this is probably not the best thing for you. Maca root is high in iodine and glucosinolate, which is not ideal for your condition, so check with your physician first.
Maca, a root that belongs to the radish family, is most commonly available in powder form. Grown in the mountains of Peru, it has been called “Peruvian ginseng.” Maca’s benefits have been long valued, and has recently been popularized as a supplement and food ingredient. 
Maca Root for Women. In Peru, women are using maca root not only as a powerful source of nutrition, but also to balance hormones, for fertility reasons, to improve sexual desire, to treat depression, and to increase energy and stamina.
1. Decreases Menopause Symptoms. Maca root has been used extensively as a hormone balancer, and research shows that its high nutrient density and phytochemical content may be the underlying contributors to this effect. Not surprisingly, maca root has a centuries-long reputation for being a powerful aphrodisiac. Loaded with minerals like zinc, iodine, and essential fatty acids, maca may balance sex hormones and may also improve mood. With a healthy mood and balanced hormone levels, arousal is usually much easier to achieve.
Maca is an exceptionally hardy root plant native to the Andean mountain plateaus of Peru. Traditionally, Maca is best known as an adaptogenic plant, which simply means that it balances the body’s response in dealing with all different types of stressors. 
MACA Overview Information. Maca is a plant that grows in central Peru in the high plateaus of the Andes mountains. It has been cultivated as a vegetable crop in Peru for at least 3000 years. Maca is a relative of the radish and has an odor similar to butterscotch. Its root is used to make medicine. Maca is used for “tired blood ” (anemia); chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS); and enhancing energy, stamina, athletic performance, memory, and fertility.
Maca root is an herb that grows in the Andes Mountains. The Inca tribe cultivated the herb and used it to treat a variety of medical conditions. Many of these natural remedies have been passed on through generations and are still widely relied upon in Peru. 