The rights of any unborn human fetus, which is generally a developing human from roughly eight weeks after conception to birth. 
Basically if you find the definition of Embryo it is: a developing human from conception to 8 weeks. The definition of Fetus is: a developing human from 8 weeks to birth. Then you enter the neonate, infant, toddler, play age...etc.etc. stages. Some consider the fetus to be a baby at around 16 weeks when you can start to feel the first movements. Others don't consider the fetus to be a baby until the abortion time limit has passed, so around 20-24 weeks.
Viability is not when a fetus is considered a baby but at birth which has been as early as 20-21 weeks in some recent cases while viability is still considered around 27weeks with a good neonatal ICU (NICU). The only scientific definition is a baby is now a baby is at birth. If you look at state laws, that is their definition that a baby isn't a baby but a fetus until it draws its first breath. I consider the baby a baby when I can see a baby on an ultrasound (even if the baby looks more like a blob at that point) which is around 5 weeks.
In human development, a fetus (/ˈfiːtəs/ ; plural fetuses), also spelled foetus, is a prenatal human between its embryonic state and its birth. The fetal stage of development tends to be taken as beginning at the gestational age of eleven weeks, i.e. nine weeks after fertilization. 
And, the fetus is not a baby yet... just like a baby is not a toddler yet... but all humans are in their own stages of human development. Therefore, I will add this: currently, it is legal to end the life of the developing human when they are in pre-viable developmental stages in utero. Some consider the fetus to be a baby at around 16 weeks when you can start to feel the first movements. Others don't consider the fetus to be a baby until the abortion time limit has passed, so around 20-24 weeks.
Implantation. 'Quickening'. This is when the fetus first moves in the womb--about 16 to 17 weeks after fertilization. The idea came from a now abandoned Christian theory that this was the moment that the fetus acquired its soul. Aristotle's Theory. Aristotle suggested 40 days (males), 90 days (females) was the time. Considering the idea that there is a precise time when a fetus acquires the right to live sounds strange, however, many state abortion laws ban abortion after a certain point in pregnancy. These laws are based on the viability of the fetus
As demonstrated above, the human embryo, who is a human being, begins at fertilization not at implantation (about 5-7 days), 14-days, or 3 weeks. Thus the embryonic period also begins at fertilization, and ends by the end of the eighth week, when the fetal period begins. The question as to when the physical material dimension of a human being begins is strictly a scientific question, and fundamentally should be answered by human embryologists not by philosophers, bioethicists, theologians, politicians, x-ray technicians, movie stars, or obstetricians and gynecologists.
Some people consider a fetus to be a baby from the moment of conception. Others consider the fetus to be a baby roughly 10 days after conception at implantation, where the fertilised egg implants in the lining of the womb. Other consider the fetus to be a baby at around 6 weeks, when there is a visible heart beat. Some consider the fetus to be a baby at around 16 weeks when you can start to feel the first movements. Others don't consider the fetus to be a baby until the abortion time limit has passed, so around 20-24 weeks.