Intestinal obstructions can result from a number of different factors: Strictures or scar tissue that has built up to the point where the intestine is extremely narrowed, or a spasming length of intestine, or a volvulus (twist/kink in the intestine), or a diverticulitis flare-up. For the best treatment and management of diverticular or obstructive GI disease, your diet should vary according to your symptoms. During good/calm times, it’s best to eat a diet that promotes easy digestion and absorption and tonifies the intestinal wall.
Foods to Avoid With Diverticulitis. In the past, doctors had recommended that people with diverticular disease (diverticulosis or diverticulitis) avoid hard-to-digest foods such as nuts, corn, popcorn, and seeds, for fear that these foods would get stuck in the diverticula and lead to inflammation. Many studies show that eating fiber-rich foods can help control diverticular symptoms. Try to eat at least 25-35 grams of fiber a day. Here are a few fiber-rich foods to include in meals: 1  Whole-grain breads, pastas, and cereals. 2  Beans (kidney beans and black beans, for example).
Diverticulosis occurs when little pockets, which are known as diverticula, form along the colon wall. When these pockets get inflamed or infected, the condition is called diverticulitis. A flare-up of diverticulitis can include a variety of symptoms and, if severe enough, may require hospitalization. One symptom of a flare-up of diverticulitis is abdominal pain. The patient may feel sudden pain in the lower left part of the abdomen, according to MayoClinic.com. In some cases, the pain may start out as a mild one and then gradually increase over several days. Another symptom of a diverticulitis flare-up includes nausea and vomiting, according to the Cleveland Clinic. Severe nausea and vomiting with abdominal distension may suggest a more significant complication of diverticulitis, such as a bowel obstruction.
Fortunately, sufferers can find relief by eating the right foods. A low-residue diet, aka low-fiber diet, is usually recommended during the flare-up periods of diverticulitis to decrease bowel volume so that the infection can heal. An intake of less than 10 grams of fiber per day is generally considered a low-residue diverticulitis diet. Diverticulitis Diet. You may be asked to start with a clear fluid diet at the onset of diverticulitis. After a few days, you may incorporate the following low fiber foods (less than 10 g per serving) that are mild enough to be eaten during a diverticulitis flare-up.
Posts: 151. HELP!! with diet during diverticulitis flareup. I am having a diverticulitis flareup and am not sure what I should and shouldn't eat. I know that nuts/seeds/popcorn are to be avoided always... or at least I always avoid things like that......and I am not sure what sent me into this recent episode. 
Find out the best way to eat during a diverticulitis flare-up; to both flush out any stuck particles and avoid an obstruction. But during a flare-up (diverticulitis), it's best to consume a liquid diet to provide a form of bowel rest and flushing of the colon, to prevent a blockage or obstruction from occurring. It is also easiest to heal infection or inflammation whilst on a liquid (but highly nutritious) diet
Abdominal Pain. One symptom of a flare-up of diverticulitis is abdominal pain. The patient may feel sudden pain in the lower left part of the abdomen, according to MayoClinic.com. In some cases, the pain may start out as a mild one and then gradually increase over several days. Another symptom of a diverticulitis flare-up includes nausea and vomiting, according to the Cleveland Clinic. Severe nausea and vomiting with abdominal distension may suggest a more significant complication of diverticulitis, such as a bowel obstruction.
Foods containing nuts, seeds and tough skins can irritate the intestinal tract and may cause a flare up of diverticulitis. Avoid foods such as nuts, sesame seeds, corn, popcorn and most raw fruits and vegetable skins and membranes. Baked potatoes are acceptable if the skin is removed. Overview. Diverticulitis occurs as a result of diverticula in the digestive tract becoming infected and inflamed or as a result of a small tear in a diverticulum. The goal of a diverticulitis diet is to allow bowel rest to promote healing.
But during a flare-up (diverticulitis or acute stricture), it’s best to consume a liquid, pre-digested diet to provide a form of bowel rest and flushing of the colon, to help prevent a blockage or obstruction from occurring. For the best treatment and management of diverticular or obstructive GI disease, your diet should vary according to your symptoms. During good/calm times, it’s best to eat a diet that promotes easy digestion and absorption and tonifies the intestinal wall.