Breeders of these are only interested in the mighty dollar, not the health of the dog. Often a designer dog will cost $1,500 or more where as a AKC poodle may cost about $800 to $1,000. There is absolutely no reason for a designer dog to cost more then an AKC dog, absolutely none, except pure greed. A hybred dog can cost as much as a pure bred dog. Make sure you do research on the dogs. Goldendoodles are only good if they are first generation. Meaning the Damn and Sire are purebreds producing a mixed puppy.
1 The normal size for a medium English Goldendoodle is 16-19 (from the shoulder to the paw) with no correlation between height and sex of the medium English Goldendoodle. 2  Weight range tends to be 35-50 pounds. These litter sizes are small therefore the spaces are extremely limited. 1  The normal size for a Small English Goldendoodle is approximately 12 - 15 (from the shoulder to the paw) with no correlation between height and sex of the Small
Pricing & Costs. Not all breeds are priced the same way; some are bred champions and others recreationally. Some breeds follow Hollywood trends, and some are rarely bred at all driving up their prices. The lowest price we've ever had advertised for the Goldendoodle is $50; the most expensive price is $5,900. Generally the average Goldendoodle costs around $1,036 to purchase. Keep this in mind when you see the prices vary greatly within our listings. If you don’t mind having the runt of the litter, or a pup who is far from a champion Goldendoodle, by all means explore the cheaper options. 
Medium English Goldendoodles: $2,850. We are also proud to annouce that we developed and produced the World's First Medium Teddy Bear English Goldendoodles. This is our MOST popular Teddy Bear English Goldendoodle size. Each of these litters takes 2-4 years of planning to produce. These litter sizes are small therefore the spaces are extremely limited. 1  The normal size for a Small English Goldendoodle is approximately 12 - 15 (from the shoulder to the paw) with no correlation between height and sex of the Small English Goldendoodle.
1 According to PuppyFind.com, they have over 600 classifieds that range anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 2  The average puppy here is around 5 to 8 weeks old. 3  BarCKennels.com, located in South Carolina, has goldendoodle puppies available that range from $900 to $1,200 for a F1. 1 Be very wary of cheaper dogs. 2  Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 3  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 4  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter.
A goldendoodle as the name implies is a mix between a golden retriever and a poodle. This combination of breeds and name were created back in 1992 and have greatly risen in popularity since then. Most goldendoodles have the color of a golden retriever but the coat of a poodle and can vary in size. 1 Be very wary of cheaper dogs. 2  Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 3  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 4  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter.
The cost of a Goldendoodle puppy varies depending on the breeder’s locale and whether he has obtained health clearances on the pup’s parents. The puppy you buy should have been raised in a clean home environment, from parents with health clearances. The Goldendoodle is a cross between a Golden Retriever and a Poodle (usually a Standard or Miniature). At their best, they are intelligent, friendly, and affectionate. They come in three sizes: miniature (weighing 15 to 30 pounds), medium (30 to 45 pounds), and standard (45 to more than 100 pounds).
Your check of $50.00 along with a Puppy Deposit Application will secure your place in the puppy selection process when the litter arrives. This $50.00 is also applied to the price of your puppy. If you are on the waiting list, the balance of $150.00 will be due when the puppies are born. Puppies “On the Ground” (If you are not on a waiting list) the deposit is $200.00. Puppies are shipped after they are 8 weeks old. Shipping is an additional of about $300.00 to $350.00*. This cost includes the airline approved carrier, airline flight, FDA veterinarian health certificates required by the FDA, gas & time to/from the airport as well as sending your puppy packet to you.
1 On average, a goldendoodle puppy that is under the age of 12 weeks can cost anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 2  According to PuppyFind.com, they have over 600 classifieds that range anywhere from $700 to as much as $1,800. 3  The average puppy here is around 5 to 8 weeks old. 1 Be very wary of cheaper dogs. 2  Goldendoodles that cost less than $400 should be questioned. 3  There could be a good chance that the dog was not bred the way it should be. 4  There could be a good chance that older dogs end up at the shelter.