Reinforcement. The term reinforce means to strengthen, and is used in psychology to refer to anything stimulus which strengthens or increases the probability of a specific response. For example, if you want your dog to sit on command, you may give him a treat every time he sits for you.
Reinforcement is an Operant Conditioning term that refers to a process by which the likelihood of a behavior occurring is increased either by giving a pleasant stimulus (positive reinforcement) or removing an unpleasant stimulus (negative reinforcement). 
Positive and Negative Reinforcement. There are multiple types of reinforcement that can be used. The two most common forms are known as positive and negative reinforcement. It is important to note that, in this case, the words positive and negative do not mean good or bad. Operant conditioning simply means learning by reinforcement. There are a number of factors involved in reinforcing an individual's behaviors, and by applying reinforcers, we can increase and/or decrease behaviors as well.
Likewise, negative reinforcement also strengthens a behavior, but it does so by removing something that is unwanted. For instance, when you get into your car and put the key in the ignition, you might hear a loud bell or ringing sound. In order for the bell sound to stop, you need to put your seatbelt on. Operant conditioning simply means learning by reinforcement. There are a number of factors involved in reinforcing an individual's behaviors, and by applying reinforcers, we can increase and/or decrease behaviors as well.
Because how and when a reinforcement is given can change the response, there are also a variety of schedules of reinforcement that can be used to strengthen a behavior. The word schedule refers to the timing of the reinforcement. Below you will read about the four most commonly used schedules of reinforcement. Operant conditioning simply means learning by reinforcement. There are a number of factors involved in reinforcing an individual's behaviors, and by applying reinforcers, we can increase and/or decrease behaviors as well.
reinforcement. the use of a stimulus to modify an existing form of response. The stimulus may be a reward or a punishment and the reinforcement may correspondingly be positive or negative. The strengthening of a conditioned response by such means. 5. An event, a circumstance, or a condition that increases the likelihood that a given response will recur in a situation like that in which the reinforcing condition originally occurred.
positive reinforcer, positive reinforcing stimulus-a reinforcing stimulus that serves to increase the likelihood of the response that produces it. negative reinforcer, negative reinforcing stimulus-a reinforcing stimulus whose removal serves to decrease the likelihood of the response that produced it. re·in·forc·er. n. Psychology. A stimulus, such as a reward, the removal of an unpleasant event, or a punishment, that in operant conditioning maintains or strengthens a desired response.
Noun. 1. reinforcer - (psychology) a stimulus that strengthens or weakens the behavior that produced it. reinforcing stimulus, reinforcement. stimulant, stimulus, stimulation, input-any stimulating information or event; acts to arouse action. re·in·forc·er. n. Psychology. A stimulus, such as a reward, the removal of an unpleasant event, or a punishment, that in operant conditioning maintains or strengthens a desired response.
reinforcement. the increasing of force or strength. In the psychological theory of behaviorism, presentation of a stimulus following a response that increases the frequency of subsequent responses. This is central in operant conditioning. The strengthening of a conditioned response by such means. 5. An event, a circumstance, or a condition that increases the likelihood that a given response will recur in a situation like that in which the reinforcing condition originally occurred.