The morphology of a colony results from characteristics of the individual bacteria viewed collectively. For example, Streptococcus pneumoniae colonies are smooth in appearance if the bacteria have a protective glycocalyx capsule and the colonies appear rough appearing in strains that do not have capsules. Although bacterial colonies can differ in the details of their appearance, a colony basically looks like a dot growing on the medium. This dot is composed of millions of bacteria that arose through binary fission from one initial bacterium, the parent.
Colony morphology may be an indicator of phenotypic variation, this being an important adaptive process adopted by bacteria to overcome environmental stressors. Furthermore, alterations in colony traits may reflect increased virulence and antimicrobial resistance. The recognition of typical colony morphologies is crucial, among others, for clinical diagnosis. Scientific and clinical laboratories frequently use the colony morphology displayed by bacteria on agar media as an auxiliary means to identify bacterial species because of their different and specific growth patterns.
Colonies that differ in appearance are typically different bacterial strains, species, or genera. However, colony morphology is not a reliable way to identify bacteria, as many different types of bacteria have similar colony morphology. If the majority of colonies in what is supposed to be a pure culture are similar in appearance, but there are a couple of colonies that look different from all of the rest, the experienced microbiology student knows not to sample from the oddball colonies, as these colonies have arisen from contamination of the plate.
The simplest biochemical test that is used to differentiate between Streptococcus and Staphylococcus species is the Catalase test. In this test we are testing for the ability of the bacteria to produce the enzyme catalase. This enzyme breaks down hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen. 
Article Summary: A bacterial colony consists of numerous bacterial cells derived from one parent. Colonies of different types of bacteria can be distinct in appearance. Bacterial Colony Morphology & Identification of Bacteria. Normal flora bacterial colonies growing on an arm plate (a bottle cap filled with TSY, placed on the skin of the arm and then incubated). If the majority of colonies in what is supposed to be a pure culture are similar in appearance, but there are a couple of colonies that look different from all of the rest, the experienced microbiology student knows not to sample from the oddball colonies, as these colonies have arisen from contamination of the plate.
Microscopic bacteria grow together in visible colonies. Learn the characteristics and vocabulary used to describe the appearance of those colonies and test your knowledge with practice examples in this lesson. Texture refers to the characteristics of the colony surface. Colonies can be dry, mucoid (thick, stringy, and wet), moist, smooth, rough, rugose (wrinkled), or contain concentric rings. The colony height, or elevation, is a description of how the colony grows vertically.
Bacteria and eukaryotes(plants), both are autotrophes but the major difference is that bacteria show chemosynthesis while plants show photosynthesis. In chemosynthesis the en … ergy in the form of food is derived from chemical substances while in photosynthesis sunlight is main source of energy to prepare food. The bacteria cell wall is made of peptidoglycan, while archaea cell  walls lack peptidoglycan. Also, the archaea cell membrane contain  ether linkages, while the bacteria ce … ll membrane contains ether  bonds.
Some bacteria require specific nutrients to grow-if you have media lacking those nutrients, the bacteria won't grow and that helps you identify the species. Also, some bacte … ria produce characteristic patterns in the media, which can help identify the bacterial species. For instance, some types of Staphylococcus bacteria completely break down red blood cells (alpha hemolysis) and other types partially break down red blood cells (beta hemolysis). You can separate each colony by determining what conditions each bacteria work best in, simply by changing a few factors, then attempting to regrow them. Also there are several staining methods which you could try, gram staining, simple iodine tests, which could also differentiate each colony.
The Prokaryotic Cell. Bacteria are unicellular and most multiply by binary fission. Bacterial species are differentiated by morphology, chemical composition, nutritional requirements, biochemical activities, and source of energy. Most bacteria are 0.2 um in diameter and 2-8 um in length. The three basic bacterial shapes are coccus (spherical), bacillus (rod-shaped), and spiral (twisted), however pleomorphic bacteria can assume several shapes. Arrangement of cocci. Cocci may be oval, elongated, or flattened on one side.