A confusion matrix (Kohavi and Provost, 1998) contains information about actual and predicted classifications done by a classification system. The following table shows the confusion matrix for a two class classifier. The entries in the confusion matrix have the following meaning in the context of our study: 1  a is the number of correct predictions that an instance is negative, 2  b is the number of incorrect predictions that an instance is positive, 3  c is the number of incorrect of predictions that an instance negative, and
Simple guide to confusion matrix terminology. A confusion matrix is a table that is often used to describe the performance of a classification model (or classifier) on a set of test data for which the true values are known. The confusion matrix itself is relatively simple to understand, but the related terminology can be confusing. I wanted to create a quick reference guide for confusion matrix terminology because I couldn't find an existing resource that suited my requirements: compact in presentation, using numbers instead of arbitrary variables, and explained both in terms of formulas and sentences.
Confusion Matrix. A confusion matrix shows the number of correct and incorrect predictions made by the classification model compared to the actual outcomes (target value) in the data. The matrix is N x N, where N is the number of target values (classes). Performance of such models is commonly evaluated using the data in the m
Confusion matrix ¶. Example of confusion matrix usage to evaluate the quality of the output of a classifier on the iris data set. The diagonal elements represent the number of points for which the predicted label is equal to the true label, while off-diagonal elements are those that are mislabeled by the classifier
In the field of machine learning, a confusion matrix, also known as a contingency table or an error matrix, is a specific table layout that allows visualization of the performance of an algorithm, typically a supervised learning one (in unsupervised learning it is usually called a matching matrix). Each column of the matrix represents the instances in a predicted class while each row represents the instances in an actual class (or vice-versa).