Plein-air painters often contend that something is lost when a painting originates from a photograph as the sole reference material—that it just doesn’t convey the experience of actually being there. Plein-Air issues of Southwest Art. Each June, Southwest Art publishes its plein-air issue, featuring famous plein-air painters and emerging plein-air artists. In 2012, we added numerous Show Previews of plein-air art shows and paint-outs happening throughout the country.
The term “plein air” was used to describe Claude Monet and the Impressionists in France. In French it means “open air” or “outside,” but since Monet’s time the term has been used to describe people who take their easels outdoors to paint. Plein air painting is for people who love to be outdoors in nature, people who love to paint landscapes (as well as other outdoor subjects like buildings, cities, old barns, farm equipment, statues, flowers, gardens, and people).
En plein air is a French term that translates literally as “in the open air.” The term “plein-air painting,” as it is currently used, usually refers to paintings that are completed on location. Over the past 20 years, interest in plein-air painting has exploded in the West. Once considered revolutionary, when French Impressionists like Monet and Pissarro first began painting outdoors, today working on location is routine for many landscape artists. Plein-Air issues of Southwest Art. Each June, Southwest Art publishes its plein-air issue, featuring famous plein-air painters and emerging plein-air artists. In 2012, we added numerous Show Previews of plein-air art shows and paint-outs happening throughout the country.
French Impressionist painters such as Claude Monet, Camille Pissarro, and Pierre-Auguste Renoir advocated en plein air painting, and much of their work was done outdoors, in the diffuse light provided by a large white umbrella. In painting, sur le motif reproduces the actual visual conditions seen at the time of the painting. This contrasts with painting according to studio or academic rules, which creates a pre-determined look. En plein air can also be used to describe other activities where a person partakes in an outdoor environment.
Definition: A painting done outside rather than in a studio. The term comes from the French en plein air, meaning 'in the open air'. The Impressionists were particularly interested in the influence of changing light outdoors on color. See also: 1  Practical Tips for Plein Air Painting. 2  Checklist for Plein Air Painting. 
See Plein Air Painting Checklists for what art materials to take on location with you as well as essential non-painting items. If you can afford to, keep a separate set of supplies for plein air painting to make it easy to pick up and go, rather than having to pack every time. Plein air painting can be very rewarding, and with a little practice you'll soon know what to pack and what to leave behind in your studio. Photo © Marion Boddy-Evans. Licensed to About.com, Inc.
En plein air is a French expression which means “in the open air”. It is used by artists to describe the art of outdoor painting, capturing landscapes and views in natural light. This kind of art has been a popular practice for centuries and requires specific skills and techniques. Donal W. Demers walks you through his take on plein air oil painting. He describes what he teaches in his workshops for plein air painters, helping you achieve successful outdoor painting through technical exercises.
[ɑ̃ plɛn ɛʁ]) is a French expression which means in the open air and is particularly used to describe the act of painting outdoors, which is also called peinture sur le motif (painting of the object(s) or what the eye actually sees) in French. In painting, sur le motif reproduces the actual visual conditions seen at the time of the painting. This contrasts with painting according to studio or academic rules, which creates a pre-determined look. En plein air can also be used to describe other activities where a person partakes in an outdoor environment.