In the US, pharmacy technicians perform their duties under supervision of pharmacists. Although they may perform, under supervision, most dispensing, compounding and other tasks, they are not generally allowed to perform the role of counseling patients on the proper use of their medications. Pharmacy is the science and technique of preparing and dispensing drugs. It is a health profession that links health sciences with chemical sciences and aims to ensure the safe and effective use of pharmaceutical drugs.
Hospital pharmacists may advance to supervisory or administrative positions. Pharmacists in hospitals and clinics dispense medications and advise the medical staff on the selection and effects of drugs. The hospital pharmacist is part of a hospital team, providing, preparing and dispensing medicines normally to patients who are or have been treated in the hospital. Community/Retail Pharmacists. Community Pharmacists give advice to customers on how to use prescribed medicines and will highlight when certain medicines should not be used in conjunction with alcohol or other types of medication.
Academic pharmacists teach and do research in colleges and schools of pharmacy. Ambulatory Pharmacist. Ambulatory Pharmacists accommodate decreases in patient hospital visits and inpatient days– a major goal of every health insurance company and health care organizations. Community/Retail Pharmacists. Community Pharmacists give advice to customers on how to use prescribed medicines and will highlight when certain medicines should not be used in conjunction with alcohol or other types of medication.
Role of a Pharmacist. Role of a Pharmacist. Pharmacists play a vital role in the health care system through the medicine and information they provide. While responsibilities vary among the different areas of pharmacy practice, the bottom line is that pharmacists help patients get well.
Your primary duty as a pharmacist is to dispense medications that are prescribed by a physician. You'll also be responsible for informing doctors about a patient's medication history, monitoring treatment programs, administering drug therapies, and providing instructions on the correct usage of prescription medicine. Employment and Salary Outlook. Job availability for pharmacists is expected to increase by 14% between 2012 and 2022, a rate estimated to be consistent with the national average, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov).
What Pharmacists Do. Pharmacists dispense prescription medications to patients and offer expertise in the safe use of prescriptions. They also may provide advice on how to lead a healthy lifestyle, conduct health and wellness screenings, provide immunizations, and oversee the medications given to patients. They dispense medications to patients and answer any questions that patients may have about prescriptions, over-the-counter medications, or any health concerns that the patient may have. They may also provide some primary care services such as giving flu shots.
The most common pharmacist positions are that of a community pharmacist (also referred to as a retail pharmacist, first-line pharmacist or dispensing chemist), or a hospital pharmacist, where they instruct and counsel on the proper use and adverse effects of medically prescribed drugs and medicines. Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as pharmacist prescriber) and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions.
Hospital Pharmacists. Hospital pharmacists work in hospitals, clinics, or nursing homes and advise the medical staff on the selection and effect of drugs. They may perform administrative duties, teach in schools of nursing, and work in patient care areas as members of a medical team. Community/Retail Pharmacists. Community Pharmacists give advice to customers on how to use prescribed medicines and will highlight when certain medicines should not be used in conjunction with alcohol or other types of medication.
Career Overview. A pharmacist is a specialist who collaborates with physicians and other health care workers to provide medication to patients. As a pharmacist, you must be knowledgeable about medications, their common uses, possible side effects, and interactions. Employment and Salary Outlook. Job availability for pharmacists is expected to increase by 14% between 2012 and 2022, a rate estimated to be consistent with the national average, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov).