Another Cause of Reactive Hypoglycemia. In my experience, reactive hypoglycemia can also happen when you first begin a low carb diet. One of the benefits of eating a low carb diet is to lower your average blood sugar and insulin levels, and to retrain your body to burn stored fat as fuel. But reactive hypoglycemia can also happen if your body burns glucose too rapidly, or if your digestive process is too slow in releasing the sugar from a meal into the bloodstream. A diet which is chronically high in carbohydrates can also trigger h
Reactive Hypoglycemia. Reactive hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, is a condition in which your blood sugar falls into a range that is too low to support your body’s needs. This type of hypoglycemia generally occurs about 2-4 hours after eating a high carbohydrate meal or food. But reactive hypoglycemia can also happen if your body burns glucose too rapidly, or if your digestive process is too slow in releasing the sugar from a meal into the bloodstream. A diet which is chronically high in carbohydrates can also trigger h
Hypoglycemia is the condition when your blood glucose (sugar) levels are too low. It happens to people with diabetes when they have a mismatch of medicine, food, and/or exercise. Non-diabetic hypoglycemia, a rare condition, is low blood glucose in people who do not have diabetes. 
Hypoglycemia: Glucose, a form of sugar, is the body's main fuel. Hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, occurs when blood... (Source: excerpt from Hypoglycemia: NIDDK). Hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, is not diabetes but may occur as a complication of diabetes, as a condition in... Reactive hypoglycemia with no known cause is a condition in which the symptoms of low blood sugar appear 2 to 5 hours after...
The body can’t store very much sugar or glucose at one time. Sugar is stored in small amounts in your muscles and liver as glycogen. In the average human body, there’s only about 1600 calories of glycogen stored at any one time. In comparison, it takes about 2500 to 3500 calories to fuel a human body for one day. But reactive hypoglycemia can also happen if your body burns glucose too rapidly, or if your digestive process is too slow in releasing the sugar from a meal into the bloodstream. A diet which is chronically high in carbohydrates can also trigger hypoglycemia.
Symptoms. The symptoms of hypoglycemia may vary from episode to episode because low blood sugar can be mild, moderate, or severe. Increasingly severe symptoms appear as the blood sugar level falls. In healthy people, fasting blood sugar levels are usually between 70 and 99 mg/dL. Your body uses hormones to keep your blood sugar in a normal range. But a long-term health problem that needs treatment can cause blood sugar to drop too low. People with diabetes often deal with low blood sugar.
Reactive hypoglycemia, or postprandial hypoglycemia, is a medical term describing recurrent episodes of symptomatic hypoglycemia occurring within 4 hours after a high carbohydrate meal in people who do not have diabetes. The more specific 6-hour glucose tolerance test can be used to chart changes in the patient's blood sugar levels before ingestion of a special glucose drink and at regular intervals during the six hours following to see if an unusual rise or drop in blood glucose levels occurs.
Hypoglycemia, also known as low blood sugar or low blood glucose, is when blood sugar decreases to below normal. This may result in a variety of symptoms including clumsiness, trouble talking, confusion, loss of consciousness, seizures, or death. The glucose level that defines hypoglycemia is variable. In people with diabetes levels below 3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL) is diagnostic. In adults without diabetes, symptoms related to low blood sugar, low blood sugar at the time of symptoms, and improvement when blood sugar is restored to normal confirm the diagnosis.
The primary test for hypoglycemia is a prolonged (48- to 72-hour) supervised fast. You will be asked to fast until the symptoms of moderate low blood sugar develop, or until blood glucose levels drop below 45 mg/dL. If at the end of 72 hours you do not have low blood sugar, you may be asked to exercise for 30 minutes. Your body uses hormones to keep your blood sugar in a normal range. But a long-term health problem that needs treatment can cause blood sugar to drop too low. People with diabetes often deal with low blood sugar.