Diffusion gives the effect that the substance is moving from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration (or 'down a concentration gradient'). Diffusion looks as if it has stopped when the particles are evenly spread out. Osmosis is the movement of water from a high water concentration to a low water concentration through a partially permeable membrane. Plants absorb water from the soil by osmosis through their root hair cells.
Diffusion diffusion: The movement of particles (molecules or ions) from an area of higher concentration to an area of lower concentration is a process in which material spreads throughout a liquid or a gas. Osmosis is the movement of water from a high water concentration to a low water concentration through a partially permeable membrane. Plants absorb water from the soil by osmosis through their root hair cells.
Very few particles travel the opposite way. The result is a concentration gradient with particles diffusing from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration. Diffusion occurs in gases and with any substance in a solution. Therefore we can say that the definition of diffusion is as follows: Diffusion: The movement of particles from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration until they spread out evenly. There are two important rules to remember. 1  The larger the particles the slower the rate of diffusion. 
474 pages on this wiki. Diffusion is the net movement of a substance from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration. This difference in concentration is called the concentration gradient. 1 Concentration gradient-A greater concentration gradient will mean the rate of diffusion increases. 2  This concentration gradient is kept large by removing the substance as it moves across the place where it diffuses.
Diffusion is the random movement of one liquid or gas through another, from a region of high concentration to a region of low concentration. 
Diffusion. Diffusion diffusion: The movement of particles (molecules or ions) from an area of higher concentration to an area of lower concentration is a process in which material spreads throughout a liquid or a gas. It is the overall movement of a substance from a region of high to low concentration. Osmosis is the movement of water from a high water concentration to a low water concentration through a partially permeable membrane. Plants absorb water from the soil by osmosis through their root hair cells.
Diffusion is the seemingly random movement of a substance from where these particles are in high concentration to where there are fewer. The diffusion stops where there is no concentration gradient existing. 
Diffusion. Dissolved substances have to pass through the cell membrane to get into or out of a cell. Diffusion is one of the processes that allows this to happen. Diffusion diffusion: The movement of particles (molecules or ions) from an area of higher concentration to an area of lower concentration occurs when particles spread. They move from a region where they are in high concentration to a region where they are in low concentration. Diffusion happens when the particles are free to move. This is true in gases and for particles dissolved in solutions. Particles diffuse down a concentration gradient, from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration. 
Diffusion is the process by which substances move down a concentration gradient, from an area of high concentration to an area of low concentration. Diffusion happens in living systems, for example, it explains the movement of carbon dioxide in leaves. Osmosis is the movement of water from a high water concentration to a low water concentration through a partially permeable membrane. Plants absorb water from the soil by osmosis through their root hair cells.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. 1. Osmosis is the diffusion of water through a semi-permeable membrane, from a solution of low solute concentration (high water potential) to a solution with high solute concentration (low water potential), up a solute concentration gradient. 