People in many countries use words like “kilometer,” “liter,” and “milligram” to measure the length, volume, and weight of different objects. These measurement units are part of the metric system. Unlike the U.S. customary system of measurement, the metric system is based on 10s. For example, a liter is 10 times larger than a deciliter, and a centigram is 10 times larger than a milligram. Notice that the word “meter” is part of all of these units. The metric system also applies the idea that units within the system get larger or smaller by a power of 10. This means that a meter is 100 times larger than a centimeter, and a kilogram is 1,000 times heavier than a gram.
All three systems have three basic types of measurement in common: weight, volume, and length. Weight and volume are the two types of measurement you ll use most often when administering medications. The metric system is the most commonly used measurement system. Each unit of measurement is organized into units of 10. Each unit is easily converted and computed using simple multiplication and division. With multiplication, the decimal point moves to the right; with division, the decimal point moves to the left. The meter (length), the liter (volume), and the gram (weight) are the basic units of the metric system and are designated with either small or large letters. For example, gram = g and liter = L. Lowercase letters are used for secondary units. For example, milligram = mg and millimeter = mm.
The uncoordinated use of the metric system by different scientific and engineering disciplines, particularly in the late 19th century, resulted in different choices of base units, even though all were based on the same definitions of the metre and the kilogram. The prefix kilo, for example, is used to multiply the unit by 1000, and the prefix milli is to indicate a one-thousandth part of the unit. Thus the kilogram and kilometre are a thousand grams and metres respectively, and a milligram and millimetre are one thousandth of a gram and metre respectively.
The simplicity of the metric system stems from the fact that there is only one unit of measurement (or base unit) for each type of quantity measured (length, mass, etc.). The three most common base units in the metric system are the meter, gram, and liter. The meter is a unit of length equal to 3.28 feet; the gram is a unit of mass equal to approximately 0.0022 pounds (about the mass of a paper clip); and the liter is a unit of volume equal to 1.05 quarts. This is much simpler than the American system of measurement, in which we have to remember inches, feet, miles, and many more units of measurement. Metric prefixes can be used with any base unit. For example, a kilometer is 1,000 meters, a kilogram is 1,000 grams, and a kiloliter is 1,000 liters. Six common prefixes used in the metric system are listed below
Unlike the English system with which you are already familiar, the metric system is based on units of ten, thus simplifying interconversions (table B.1). This base-ten system is similar to our monetary system, in which 10 cents equals a dime, 10 dimes equals a dollar, and so on. Although the metric system is the only measurement system ever acknowledged by Congress, the United States remains out of step with the rest of the world by clinging to the antiquated English system of measurements involving pounds, inches, and so on. Metric units commonly used in biology include.
Summary. The metric system is an alternative system of measurement used in most countries, as well as in the United States. The metric system is based on joining one of a series of prefixes, including kilo-, hecto-, deka-, deci-, centi-, and milli-, with a base unit of measurement, such as meter, liter, or gram. Notice that the word “meter” is part of all of these units. The metric system also applies the idea that units within the system get larger or smaller by a power of 10. This means that a meter is 100 times larger than a centimeter, and a kilogram is 1,000 times heavier than a gram.
The metric system is a standardized system of measurement used by scientists throughout the world. It is also the measurement system used in everyday life in most countries. Although the metric system is the only measurement system ever acknowledged by Congress, the United States remains out of step with the rest of the world by clinging to the antiquated English system of measurements involving pounds, inches, and so on. Metric units commonly used in biology include.
Smaller Larger. Length: Meters  The basic unit of distance in the metric system is the meter (m), which is slightly more than a yard (approximately 39.37 inches).  Distances larger than a meter are measured in units that are: Abbreviation. 