Costs. In quantities of 10,000 or more, 8 to 12 inch sterile grass carp can be purchased for about $5.00 each for truck delivery. The cost of small air freighted orders will vary and is estimated at $10 to $20 per fish with shipping. A stocking of 83,000 triploid grass carp into Silver Lake Washington resulted in the total eradication of all submersed species, including Eurasian watermilfoil, Brazilian elodea, and swollen bladderwort. However, the extensive wetlands surrounding Silver Lake have generally remained intact.
Triploid grass carp are inexpensive compared to most other aquatic vegetation control methods. Keep in mind, however, that the types of plants these fish prefer may also be important for sportfish habitat and waterfowl food. 1 If warranted, the stocking rate can be increased with consent of your local TPWD fisheries management biologist. 2  Triploid grass carp should be 10-12 inches long when stocked. 3  Smaller carp are likely to be eaten by other fish.
1 The recommended stocking rate for triploid grass carp is five per acre if the water body has 50% or less plant coverage, and 10 per acre if plant coverage is greater than 50%. 2  If warranted, the stocking rate can be increased with consent of your local TPWD fisheries management biologist. 1 If warranted, the stocking rate can be increased with consent of your local TPWD fisheries management biologist. 2  Triploid grass carp should be 10-12 inches long when stocked. 3  Smaller carp are likely to be eaten by other fish.
What do I need to know about triploid grass carp? Cost: Triploid grass carp cost between $5 and $15 each and are usually stocked at three to ten fish per acre, resulting in costs as low as $15 per acre. In comparison, herbicides cost between $100 and $500 per acre and mechanical control may cost more than twice that. One of the few fish species which eat plants, grass carp may provide a low-cost, long-term, herbicide-free means of dealing with problem plants in your pond or lake. The designation of triploid signifies that they have been genetically altered at hatcheries to prevent the fish from spawning in Florida waters.
Description of Method-Triploid Grass Carp. The grass carp, also known as the white amur, is a vegetarian fish native to the Amur River in Asia. Because this fish feeds on aquatic plants, it can be used as a biological tool to control nuisance aquatic plant growth. A stocking of 83,000 triploid grass carp into Silver Lake Washington resulted in the total eradication of all submersed species, including Eurasian watermilfoil, Brazilian elodea, and swollen bladderwort. However, the extensive wetlands surrounding Silver Lake have generally remained intact.
The cost of an initial triploid grass carp permit shall be $50.00 plus an additional fee for on-site. inspection, if deemed necessary by the Department, or by specific request from a water body owner. as stated in 901.A.3.b.i.(c). 
With the introduction of certified 100% Triploid Grass Carp many states allowed the sale and stocking of triploid (sterile) grass carp for aquatic vegetation control. Like you and me, regular diploid grass carp have two chromosomes in every cell allowing the fish to produce viable eggs or sperm with 1 chromosome each. 
Grass carp may not be permitted to be stocked in some states. In quantities of 10,000 or more, 8 to 12 inch sterile grass carp can be purchased for about $5.00 each for truck delivery. The cost of small air freighted orders will vary and is estimated at $10 to $20 per fish with shipping. A stocking of 83,000 triploid grass carp into Silver Lake Washington resulted in the total eradication of all submersed species, including Eurasian watermilfoil, Brazilian elodea, and swollen bladderwort. However, the extensive wetlands surrounding Silver Lake have generally remained intact.
Triploid Grass Carp Permit. Grass carp are fish imported from Asia for use in controlling aquatic vegetation. One of the few fish species which eat plants, grass carp may provide a low-cost, long-term, herbicide-free means of dealing with problem plants in your pond or lake. The designation of triploid signifies that they have been genetically altered at hatcheries to prevent the fish from spawning in Florida waters.
1 If insufficient numbers of triploid grass carp are stocked, less-favored plants may become overabundant. 2  Depending on plant types, plant density, and stocking rate, it may take several years to achieve control using triploid grass carp. 3  Restocking, generally every 5 to 7 years, is needed for maximum effectiveness. 1 If warranted, the stocking rate can be increased with consent of your local TPWD fisheries management biologist. 2  Triploid grass carp should be 10-12 inches long when stocked. 3  Smaller carp are likely to be eaten by other fish.