Ewan is also a variant form of the English and French Eugene in the Scottish language. Ewan is also a variant form of the Scottish, English, and Welsh Evan in the Scottish language. Variant forms of Ewan include the name Euan, the name Euen, the name Ewen, the name Ewin, the name Ewon, the name Ewyn, and the Irish Keon. Ewan is irregularly used as a baby boy name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Ewan has its origins in the Celtic and Old Greek languages. It is used largely in the English and Scottish languages. In addition, Ewan is a variant form of the Gaelic, Irish, and Scottish Eoghan
Meaning: The Scottish name Ewan means-a form of Eugene, Evan. Rating: 
Ewan is a form of the name Eoghan. The origin of Eoghan is unclear and disputed. It is thought to be composed of two old celtic elements meaning yew and born. The name is Anglicized in Scotland as Euan, Ewan and Evan and in Ireland as Owen and Eugene. Variants of the name Ewan include Ewen. Ewan is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced E-wan. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1174 in baby name popularity for boys with 157 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name.
This appealing name has a good chance of catching on due to the popularity of Ewan McGregor, and the trend towards Gaelic names in general. Pronunciation is YOO-un. Ewan has a complex family tree, with connections to John, Owen, Hugh, Evan and Eugene. 
Boy Name of the Week: Ewan. The Boy Name of the Week is the Scottish form of a Gaelic name: Ewan. It is pronounced YOO-un. It comes from the Gaelic name Eoghan. There were several legendary Irish figures with the name Eoghan, which possibly means born from the yew tree in Irish. Plus, Ewan comes from Gaelic, and there were several legendary Irish figures with the name Eoghan, which Ewan comes from. To many people, it is all so similar that these Celtic/Gaelic/Irish/Scotish names just go together and many don't know the difference between them.
Welsh Meaning: The name Ewan is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Ewan is: God is good. Greek Meaning: The name Ewan is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Ewan is: Well-born. Famous bearer: Prince Eugene of Savoy; American playwright Eugene O'Neill. Irish Meaning: The name Ewan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Ewan is: God's gift. From a Gaelic word for youth
Euan, Ewen or Ewan is a male given name, most commonly heard throughout Scotland and Canada. Owen is the predominant Welsh spelling of the name, but also Iwan and Iuan are also found, as in Cornish). Ouen can be considered the French or Breton spelling of the name. Euan, in Gaelic etymology, implies a plethoric (red-faced) individual. Euan is also a Latin word meaning Bachus.
Ewen /ewen/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Ewen's roots are Scottish, Gaelic, Hebrew, Welsh and Greek, and the name Ewen means God is gracious; born of yew; youth. Ewen is an alternate spelling of Euan (Scottish, Gaelic): anglicized variation of Eoghan. Ewen is also a variation of Evan (Hebrew, Welsh, Scottish). 
Ewan is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#23346 out of 150436, Top 16%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Ewan for boys. Ewan /ewan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced YOO-an. It is of Scottish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Ewan is born of yew; youth. Variant of Evan or Gaelic E ghan (see Euan). The name is also associated with Eugene. See also Keon. Actor Ewan McGregor