The Australian Pelican is found throughout the continent of Australia. It can also be found in New Guinea, Fiji, parts of Indonesia and in New Zealand. This species has the longest bill of any bird in the world. There are 8 living species of pelicans and they are found from tropical to temperate regions. Pelicans most commonly have pale feathers, but a number of species are darker in color. They do not have any feathers on their face, bill or legs and these areas change color during breeding seasons.
The Australian Pelican is found throughout Australia, Papua New Guinea and western Indonesia, with occasional reports in New Zealand and various western Pacific islands. The most characteristic feature of pelicans is the elongated bill with its massive throat pouch. The Australian Pelican's bill is 40 cm - 50 cm long and is larger in males than females. Pelicans have large wings and a wingspan of 2.3 m - 2.5 m.
They have a long bill with a big throat pouch. Diet: Australian Pelicans are carnivores. They eat mainly fish but they also eat other animals that live in the water like turtles, crustaceans and other waterbirds. Their highly sensitive bill helps locate fish, snapping around the prey when they sense movement. Their throat pouch can hold up to 13 litres of water
They havea long bill with a big throat pouch. Diet Australian Pelicans are carnivores. They eat mainly fish but they also eat otheranimals that live in the water like turtles, crustaceans and other waterbirds.Their highly sensitive bill helps locate fish, snapping around the prey when theysense movement. Their throat pouch can hold up to 13 litres of water. 
The Australian Pelican is found throughout Australia, Papua New Guinea and western Indonesia, with occasional reports in New Zealand and various western Pacific islands. Pelicans are widespread on freshwater, estuarine and marine wetlands and waterways including lakes, swamps, rivers, coastal islands and shores. 
Image: Australian Pelican Illustration. Australian Pelicans are huge black and white birds that live in areas with water all over Australia. They have very long pale pink beaks that have a small hook on the end and a stretching pouch underneath. Notes. Australian Pelicans are huge black and white birds that live in areas with water all over Australia. They have very long pale pink beaks that have a small hook on the end and a stretching pouch underneath. When their wings are outstretched they measure over 2 m across. They have feet with four fully webbed toes.
The Australian Pelican usually weighs between 4 and 7 kilograms. Their length is between 1.6 to 1.9 metres, but have a wingspan of between 2.5 to 3.4 metres. The female Australian Pelican is a little bit smaller than the male. They can hold between 9 and 13 litres of water in their bill, and they have 4 webbed toes. Lifespan. In the wild the Australian Pelican can live between 10 and 25 years. 
On a world scale The Australian Pelican is found throughout Australia, except in the very dry middle (desert region), Papua New Guinea and parts of Indonesia (eg Sulawesi) and sometimes in New Zealand and some Pacific Islands close to Australia. Pelicans as a whole are big birds with a very large wingspan, large beaks and are very well known One of the reason such a big bird can fly is that its skeleton is very light (10% of their weight).
The Great White Pelican is also called by other names such as the Eastern White Pelican, Rosy pelican or white pelican. These pelicans are often found in warm fresh water. They inhabit areas of Africa, Asia and Europe. They live primarily in the lakes of Africa with a migratory route across Eastern Europe to Kazakhstan. Others of this species live and breed in the Dante River in Romania. There are 8 living species of pelicans and they are found from tropical to temperate regions. Pelicans most commonly have pale feathers, but a number of species are darker in color. They do not have any feathers on their face, bill or legs and these areas change color during breeding seasons.