An average person would eat around 10-15 dollars a day. You get around $100 already for food each week if you take $1700 given for the semester, divided by 8. How much more extra cash will be needed depends on the type of student and theres no way to tell otherwise. If he/she likes to watch stand-up comedy shows, theres going to be a lot and their around $20-$50. Personally, I ended up spending $175 a month on average. This is with eating basically every meal but one or two a week on my meal plan, entertainment that cost money maybe 2 or 3 times a month, and not buying anything like clothing or electronics.
My second child is an athlete and top student, does not have time for a job nor do I want her to have one. Her job right now is to do well in school and her sport. She will have an allowance in college and we have budgeted $300 per month for that. My son had every opportunity to do well in school and receive the same tuition scholarship my daughter will be awarded. 
Kids average $15 a week in allowance. By Jillian Anthony @CNNMoney. Parents give their kids an average of $780 a year in allowance, according to a survey by the American Institute of CPAs. Kids are raking in an average of $15 a week in allowance, according to a recent survey. While children generally receive a larger allowance the older they get, the average across all ages is $780 a year, according to a survey by the American Institute of CPAs. That's enough to buy an iPad and an iPod Touch, or an XBox 360 with 10 video game
After given $1700 from the food and housing dptmt, how much $ does an avg college student need on a monthly basis? casual dining in with friends, movie, etc. nothing to fancy. and not including shopping. my understanding was the $150 is plenty. Personally, I ended up spending $175 a month on average. This is with eating basically every meal but one or two a week on my meal plan, entertainment that cost money maybe 2 or 3 times a month, and not buying anything like clothing or electronics.
Some items vary widely. For example, if a travel allowance is included and the student goes to school quite far from home, coming home could cost $500 to $1,000 per trip. Deciding whether to include such expenses in spending money totals is important. Once you decide which items to include, you must estimate how much money to allow for each. Most students will fall somewhere between the two. Since many college students work, and earn an average of $5,000 to $6,000 annually, they should not need any help with spending money.. Summer and part-time jobs may well be able to cover these expenses.
, v45 n5 p201-04 Mar 1997. Reports a study that examined the average number of alcoholic drinks that college students (N=44,433) consumed per week. Surveys indicated that most students drank little or no alcohol on an average weekly basis. Only about 10% of the students reported consuming an average of 15 drinks or more per week. (SM). 
Information from Languages Canada shows that an average short term student spends $206 per study week for room cost. We have assumed $100 per study week for food, $35 for transportation, and $50 per week for discretionary spending, based on various institution websites which provide information on expense budgeting. So has the estimate of transportation cost. In addition to basic living costs as presented above, we have made an allowance of $2,500 per student per year ($1,500 for K-12 students) for discretionary expenses (such as eating out, recreational activities, and entertaining).
The payments of between £10 and £30 per week were made to students whose household incomes were less than £30,810 per year. Seemingly defying Government policy, bosses at Salford City College are using savings to fund their means-tested new scheme. The college says a survey of students showed four out of five would spend their allowance on transport, with average costs of £20 a week.