Do not use a household spoon because you may not get the correct dose. If your liquid form is a suspension, shake the bottle well before each dose. If you are using sustained-release tablets or capsules, swallow the medication whole. Do not crush, chew, or break the tablets or capsules. Doing so can destroy the long action of the drug and may increase side effects. 
Uses of This Medicine. Hydrocodone and acetaminophen combination is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Acetaminophen is used to relieve pain and reduce fever in patients. It does not become habit-forming when taken for a long time. But acetaminophen may cause other unwanted effects when taken in large doses, including liver damage. Hydrocodone belongs to the group of medicines called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines). It acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain, and stops or prevents cough. When hydrocodone is used for a long time, it may become habit-forming, causing mental or physical dependence. 
Hydrocodone and acetaminophen combination is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Acetaminophen is used to relieve pain and reduce fever in patients. It does not become habit-forming when taken for a long time. But acetaminophen may cause other unwanted effects when taken in large doses, including liver damage. Hydrocodone belongs to the group of medicines called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines). It acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain, and stops or prevents cough. When hydrocodone is used for a long time, it may become habit-forming, causing mental or physical dependence. 
Uses. This combination medication is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. It contains a narcotic pain reliever (hydrocodone) and a non-narcotic pain reliever (acetaminophen). Hydrocodone works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain. Acetaminophen can also reduce a fever. Get medical help right away if you take too much acetaminophen (overdose), even if you feel well. Overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, sweating, stomach / abdominal pain, extreme tiredness, yellowing eyes / skin, and dark urine.
Hydrocodone is a prescription medicine commonly used for relieving pain. It is a narcotic that is effective at decreasing pain and relieving coughing. It can also cause mental clouding and mood changes, however, and has a significant potential for both psychological and physical dependence and abuse. 
How Hydrocodone Is Supplied. 1  Hydrocodone is available in 5 mg tablets and a 5 mg/ml liquid. 2  There are combination products that include acetaminophen (Vicodin). 3  It is important these formulations NEVER be used in cats. 
Hydrocodone is a semi-synthetic opioid synthesized from codeine, one of the opioid alkaloids found in the opium poppy. It is a narcotic analgesic used orally as an antitussive/ cough suppressant, but also commonly taken orally for relief of moderate to severe pain. The drug was pure hydrocodone in small 5 and 10 mg tablets, physically similar to the Dilaudid tablets. It is no longer manufactured by Knoll in Germany, nor is a generic available. Hydrocodone was never as common in Europe as it is in North America—dihydrocodeine is used for its spectrum of indications.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Hydrocodone is a narcotic pain-reliever and a cough suppressant, similar to codeine. Hydrocodone blocks the receptors on nerve cells in the brain that give rise to the sensation of pain. Acetaminophen is a non-narcotic analgesic (pain reliever) and antipyretic (fever reducer).
The 15 milliliter dose provides 7.5 milligrams of hydrocodone and 500 milligrams of APAP. It is very important to measure liquid doses exactly. Household teaspoons and tablespoons are not adequate measuring devices. To deliver exact dosages, use a calibrated measuring cup or syringe. Hydrocodone is a centrally acting analgesic used to provide additive pain relief when non-narcotic analgesics are ineffective. Acetaminophen (abbreviated APAP) is a peripherally acting analgesic agent found in many combination products and also available by itself. APAP is also an antipyretic (fever lowering) agent.