Confidence votes 959. In an adult the lower end of the spinal cord usually ends at approximately the first lumbar vertebra, where it divides into many individual nerve roots (L1). That is the reason Lumbar Puncture usually perform at L3-L4 in order to prevent accidentally injure to the spinal cord. 
41-1 The spinal cord ends at the level of the L1 or 2 vertebra. The range is from one vertebra higher to one vertebra lower: T12 to L3 (A.F. Reimann and B. J. Anson, Anat. Rec.,88:127, 1944). Spinal cord. The spinal cord, about 45 cm in length, extends from the foramen magnum, where it is continuous with the medulla oblongata, to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebra (The range is T12 to L3). Below that level, the vertebral canal is occupied by spinal nerve roots and meninges
In an adult the lower end of the spinal cord usually ends at approximately the first lumbar vertebra, where it divides into many individual nerve roots (L1). That is the reaso … n Lumbar Puncture usually perform at L3-L4 in order to prevent accidentally injure to the spinal cord. 
Spinal Nerves. Nerves called the spinal nerves or nerve roots, branch off the spinal cord and pass out through a hole in each of the vertebrae called the foramen. These nerves carry information from the spinal cord to the rest of the body, and from the body back up to the brain. The point at which the spinal cord ends is called the conus medullaris, and is the terminal end of the spinal cord. It occurs near lumbar nerves L1 and L2. After the spinal cord terminates, the spinal nerves continue as a bundle of nerves called the cauda equina.
The spinal cord is continuous with the caudal portion of the medulla, running from the base of the skull to to the body of the first lumbar vertebra. It does not run the full length of the vertebral column in adults. The brain and spinal cord together make up the central nervous system (CNS). The spinal cord begins at the occipital bone and extends down to the space between the first and second lumbar vertebrae; it does not extend the entire length of the vertebral column. It is around 45 cm (18 in) in men and around 43 cm (17 in) long in women
The cauda equina. The spinal cord ends around the first and second lumbar vertebrae in the lower back and continues as nerve roots. This bundle of nerve roots is called the cauda equina. They exit the spinal canal through openings in the vertebrae (foramen), just like other nerve roots. 
The spinal nerves carry information to and from different levels (segments) in the spinal cord. Both the nerves and the segments in the spinal cord are numbered in a similar way to the vertebrae. The point at which the spinal cord ends is called the conus medullaris, and is the terminal end of the spinal cord. It occurs near lumbar nerves L1 and L2. After the spinal cord terminates, the spinal nerves continue as a bundle of nerves called the cauda equina.
The spinal cord ends with the conus medularis. Nerves still exit from the spine below this level. In an embryonic infant, the spinal cord is the full length of the spine, but as the fetus develops, the spinal cord also develops to terminate in the L1/L2 region. See the links for more information. 