cepillar⇒ vtrverbo transitivo: Verbo que requiere de un objeto directo (di la verdad, encontre encontré una). (moneda peinar). pelo brush vtrtransitive: Verb verb taking a direct--object for, Example say.. something cepillar vtrverbo transitivo: Verbo que requiere de un objeto directo (di la verdad, encontre encontré una). (moneda aislar, madera). metal plane
Definitions of brush. 1  a device made of bristles, hairs, wires, etc, set into a firm back or handle: used to apply paint, clean or polish surfaces, groom the hair, etc. Definitions. 1  a device made of bristles, hairs, wires, etc, set into a firm back or handle: used to apply paint, clean or polish surfaces, groom the hair, etc.
brush 1. n. 1. a. An implement typically consisting of bristles fastened into a handle, used in scrubbing, polishing, grooming, or applying a liquid. 1. a. To clean, polish, or groom with a brush: brush one's teeth; brush the dog's coat. b. To apply with a brush: brushed shellac onto the wood. c. To remove with a brush or with sweeping strokes: brushed dirt from his pants. 2. To dismiss abruptly or curtly: brushed the matter aside; brushed an old friend off.
1. an implement consisting of bristles, hair, or the like and a handle, used for painting, cleaning, grooming, etc. 2. either of a pair of wire-bristled, brushlike devices used to mark a soft rhythmic beat on drums or cymbals. 1. a. To clean, polish, or groom with a brush: brush one's teeth; brush the dog's coat. b. To apply with a brush: brushed shellac onto the wood. c. To remove with a brush or with sweeping strokes: brushed dirt from his pants. 2. To dismiss abruptly or curtly: brushed the matter aside; brushed an old friend off.
An alternate name for it is simply the-ndo form. In English it is translated as the -ing form of the verb (for example, speaking), which has lead to the frequent mistake of calling this form the present participle. The gerund is a verb form which has an adverbial function, not an adjectival function like a participle, nor a noun function like an infinitive. 1  Forms 2  : To form the gerund, remove the infinitive ending (-ar, -er, or-ir) of a verb and add-ando for-ar verbs, and-iendo for-er and-ir verbs: 
noun. 1  a device made of bristles, hairs, wires, etc, set into a firm back or handle: used to apply paint, clean or polish surfaces, groom the hair, etc. 2  the act or an instance of brushing. 3  a light stroke made in passing; graze. 4  a brief encounter or contact, esp an unfriendly one; skirmish. Definitions. 1  a device made of bristles, hairs, wires, etc, set into a firm back or handle: used to apply paint, clean or polish surfaces, groom the hair, etc.
1. a. To remove the beard or other body hair from, with a razor or shaver: The barber lathered his face and then shaved him. b. To cut (the beard, for example) at the surface of the skin with a razor or shaver. 2. To crop, trim, or mow closely: shave a meadow. 3. Shave can also be used as a transitive verb, meaning that someone removes hair from a particular part of their body using a razor. Marta had a shower and shaved her legs.
cepillar vtrverbo transitivo: Verbo que requiere de un objeto directo (di la verdad, encontre encontré una). (moneda limpiar con). cepillo brush vtrtransitive: Verb verb taking a direct--object for, Example say.. something cepillar vtrverbo transitivo: Verbo que requiere de un objeto directo (di la verdad, encontre encontré una). (moneda aislar, madera). metal plane
1 a device made of bristles, hairs, wires, etc, set into a firm back or handle: used to apply paint, clean or polish surfaces, groom the hair, etc. 2  the act or an instance of brushing. 3  a light stroke made in passing; graze. 4  a brief encounter or contact, esp an unfriendly one; skirmish. Definitions. 1  a device made of bristles, hairs, wires, etc, set into a firm back or handle: used to apply paint, clean or polish surfaces, groom the hair, etc.