Learning [edit]. Learning is characterized by persistent and measurable changes in behavior which are not associated with fatigue, altered motivation, or maturation. Some information or knowledge is acquired and is then used to alter the individuals actions and responses. The view of the brain as a tabula rasa, a blank slate, all too long a basis for the thinking of learning theorists, is patently absurd -- Peter Marler, 1996 Behavior is too important to be left to psychologists -- Donald Griffin.
Feature detection in bat auditory cortex [edit]. In the auditory system of bats, like in auditory systems of other vertebrates, primary sensory afferent neurons, which receive inputs from hair cells from a restricted region of the organ of Corti in the cochlea, are the simple feature detectors. In the gymnotiform fish, Eigenmannia illustrated here, the primary sensory neurons in the electroreceptor system are simple feature detectors, and they include the ampullary receptors, probability coders (P units), and phase coders (T units).
Barlow’s idea that certain cells in the retina could act as “feature detectors” was influenced by E.D. Adrian and Nikolaas Tinbergen. E.D. Adrian, Barlow’s advisor, was the discoverer of the frequency code – the observation that sensory nerves convey signal intensity though the frequency of their firing. In the gymnotiform fish, Eigenmannia illustrated here, the primary sensory neurons in the electroreceptor system are simple feature detectors, and they include the ampullary receptors, probability coders (P units), and phase coders (T units).
(1971) • Discriminability was measured by an increase in sucking rate toa second speech sound after habituation to the first sound. • Recovery from habituation was greater when the two stimuli were from different adult phonemiccategories than when they were from the same category. Eimas et al. (1971) reported that infants, like adults, demonstrate categorical ppp p perception for speech sounds. To explain this they proposed that infants are equipped with innate, speech-specific, phoneticfeature detectors tuned to the range of phonetic contrasts used in the world’s languages.
Beyond pyramidal cells and spherical cells, a more complex feature detector exists in the dorsal torus semicurcularis of the midbrain because the separate streams of amplitude and phase information converge on higher order sign-selective neurons in this region of the midbrain. In the gymnotiform fish, Eigenmannia illustrated here, the primary sensory neurons in the electroreceptor system are simple feature detectors, and they include the ampullary receptors, probability coders (P units), and phase coders (T units).
Acquired immunity is triggered in vertebrates when a pathogen evades the innate immune system and (1) generates a threshold level of antigen and (2) generates stranger or danger signals activating dendritic cells. The major functions of the acquired immune system include: 1  Recognition of specific non-self antigens in the presence of self, during the process of antigen presentation. 2  Generation of responses that are tailored to maximally eliminate specific pathogens or pathogen-infected cells.
The adaptive immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system). Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, leads to an enhanced response to subsequent encounters with that pathogen. The major functions of the acquired immune system include: 1  Recognition of specific non-self antigens in the presence of self, during the process of antigen presentation. 2  Generation of responses that are tailored to maximally eliminate specific pathogens or pathogen-infected cells.
The instincts ofanimals are prewired in the nervous system, and some of the brain cells, featuredetectors, respond to certain kinds of stimuli (Wardhaugh 1993:100-102).Similarly, language is prewired in the nervous system of humans, and thehuman speech detectors are responding to language. In naturewe find numerous kinds of communication systems, many of which appear to beunique to their possessors, and one of them is the language of the human species.Basically, the purpose of communication is the preservation, growth, anddevelopment of the species (Smith and Miller 1968:265).
This FM-FM sensitive region is only one example of a feature detector in the bat auditory cortex. A CF-CF sensitive region also exists in the auditory cortex, which in combination with FM-FM regions allows the bat to create maps for relative target velocity and target distance. In the gymnotiform fish, Eigenmannia illustrated here, the primary sensory neurons in the electroreceptor system are simple feature detectors, and they include the ampullary receptors, probability coders (P units), and phase coders (T units).