A phospholipid is composed of two fatty acids, a glycerol unit, a phosphate group and a polar molecule. Photo Credit: Image credit: Ties van Brussel / Tiesworks.nl. Phospholipids belong to the lipid family of biological polymers. The phosphate group and polar head region of the molecule is hydrophillic (attracted to water), while the fatty acid tail is hydrophobic (repelled by water). When placed in water, phospholipids will orient themselves into a bilayer in which the non-polar tail region faces the inner area of the bilayer
Confidence votes 7.6K. In a phospholipid, there are only two fatty acids. One of the outer carbons of the glycerol is attached to a phosphate group, or, more often, to a group that includes a phosphate group. 
Medical Definition of PHOSPHOLIPID. : any of numerous lipids (as lecithins and phosphatidylethanolamines) in which phosphoric acid as well as a fatty acid is esterified to glycerol and which are found in all living cells and in the bilayers of cell membranes—called also phosphatide, phospholipin. Definition of PHOSPHOLIPID. : any of numerous lipids (as lecithins and phosphatidylethanolamines) in which phosphoric acid as well as a fatty acid is esterified to glycerol and which are found in all living cells and in the bilayers of cell membranes. ADVERTISEMENT.
Most phospholipids contain a “diglyceride”, a phosphate group and a simple organic molecule such as choline, which is a water-soluble essential nutrient. In water based solution, the phospholipids automatically arrange themselves into a double layer, or as a “phospholipid bi layer”. Phospholipids are not triglycerides. There is a small but very important difference in the structure of phospholipids compared to triglycerides. Instead of having 3 fatty acids attached to the glycerol molecule, one is replaced by a phosphate group, made up of phosphorus, oxygen and hydrogen.
Phospholipids make up an important class of lipids for the construction of cell membranes. The phospholipids are not true fats because they have one of the fatty acids replaced by a phosphate group. This sketch of a phospholipid molecule shows two fatty acids and a phosphate group attached to a glycerol backbone. Stearic acid is shown as the fatty acid, but there are many variations in the fatty acids. 
The phospholipid has a strongly polar group, the phosphate group which is hydrophilic (likes water) and a lipid or fatty acid part that is hydrophobic (dislikes water), but at … tracted to other lipids and fatty acids with what is called hydrogen bonds which are common between carbon-hydrogen chains. 
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule. The phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline
Your body is a complicated machine, so you may be surprised to learn that important biological molecules that make up living things fall into only four main classes: carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids. Your cells are surrounded by a very important type of lipid, called phospholipids. Phospholipids consist of a hydrophilic (or 'water loving') head and a hydrophobic (or 'water fearing') tail. Phospholipids like to line up and arrange themselves into two parallel layers, called a phospholipid bilayer. 