Carrara [karˈraːra] (Emilian: Carara) is a city and comune in the Province of Massa and Carrara (Tuscany, Italy), notable for the white or blue-grey marble quarried there. It is on the Carrione River, some 100 kilometres (62 mi) west-northwest of Florence. 
WHITE MARBLE FROM GREECE. Marble deposits exist virtually allover Greece. A major production area of marble from Greece is a mountainous region, namely Drama-Kavala-Thassos, widely known as “Carrara of Greece”. It’s known for producing almost 50% of the total semi white & white marble production. 
Ruby in Marble: Marble is often the host rock for corundum, spinel and other gem minerals. This specimen is a piece of white marble with a large red ruby crystal from Afghanistan. Specimen is about 1 1/4 inches across (about 3 centimeters). Specimen and photo by Arkenstone / www.iRocks.com. Gray Marble: This specimen has calcite cleavage faces up to several millimeters in size that are reflecting light. When it is formed from a limestone with very few impurities it will be white in color. Marble that contains impurities such as clay minerals, iron oxides or bituminous material can be bluish, gray, pink, yellow or black in color. Marble of extremely high purity with a bright white color is very useful.
White granite and white marble. Browse 183 different types of white marble and white granite. Click on a stone image to see more about a particular natural stone. Find white stone and many other colors of stone on Graniteland. 
Greek Thassos White Marble-Stone Center Online. Thassos Marble is a pure white stone extracted from Greek quarries. It is also called Extra White Marble, Snow White Marble and Greek Crystal Marble. It is almost the whitest marble you can find in the world and suitable for extremely luxurious constructions because of its rare. 
White marble is one of the most common rocks in our neighborhood, because people buy it by the bag to decorate their gardens and walkways. To learn more about white marble, scroll farther down this page. To learn more about white marble, scroll farther down this page. Where white marble came from. We're not sure where our marble came from. There are active marble quarries in Vermont, New York, Georgia, Colorado, and in Canada as well. The marble sold in our area could come from one or more of those places. How white marble formed White marble formed when very pure limestone rock was buried deeply and exposed to high heat and great pressur
Sculpture [edit]. White marble has been prized for its use in sculptures since classical times. This preference has to do with its softness, which made it easier to carve, relative isotropy and homogeneity, and a relative resistance to shattering. Marble is a non-foliated metamorphic rock composed of recrystallized carbonate minerals, most commonly calcite or dolomite. Geologists use the term marble to refer to metamorphosed limestone; however, stonemasons use the term more broadly to encompass unmetamorphosed limestone.
Special things to look for. Where white marble came from We're not sure where our marble came from. There are active marble quarries in Vermont, New York, Georgia, Colorado, and in Canada as well. The marble sold in our area could come from one or more of those places. How white marble formed White marble formed when very pure limestone rock was buried deeply and exposed to high heat and great pressure. Where white marble came from. We're not sure where our marble came from. There are active marble quarries in Vermont, New York, Georgia, Colorado, and in Canada as well.