Tuition and Financial Aid. The online MBA program at Fontbonne University has a base tuition of $22,644. The program consists of 36 credit hours and costs $629 per credit hour. Students can also look into different financial aid options such as Pell Grant options, subsidized and unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan program, SEOG Grants, and the Grand PLUS Loan for Graduate Students.
Portfolio development fee - $200.00. Transcribing fee (per credit hour) - $60.00. Portfolio development fees must be paid at the beginning of the process and are non-refundable. Transcribing fees are charged for hours awarded and must be paid before the credit is posted to the student’s transcript. Fees are subject to change without prior notice.
Tuition Rates. The tuition rates listed are subject to change. Full-time tuition rates apply to students enrolled in 13–18 credit hours per semester in campuses in the U.S. Tuition rates for students enrolled at Webster's international campuses may be found on the individual campus' website. 
The Accelerated budget is based on the current tuition rate of $385 multiplied by the number of hours in the program (36) to get the tuition rate. Graduate and Doctorial (PhD) class-by-class rates were computed by taking average of full time and half time cost for tuition. Fees are calculated as $150 per term. Active duty members of the United States Military, National Guard, Reserve and Coast Guard who declare one of the following Undergraduate majors are eligible for a tuition rate of $250.00 per credit hour for all courses in their Undergraduate Degree: Criminal Justice.
2 The full-time rate is charged to undergraduate students enrolled for 12 credit hours or more; graduate and professional doctoral students enrolled for 9 credit hours or more; and law students enrolled for 10 credit hours or more. 3 Students enrolled part-time are charged on a per-credit hour basis. (1) The full-time rate is charged to undergraduate students enrolled for 12 credit hours or more, graduate and professional doctoral students enrolled for 9 credit hours or more,
Estimated 4 Year Cost at Published Tuition. At the current published rates, an estimated total tuition, fees and living expense price for a 4 year bachelor's degree at Fontbonne University is $131,984 for students graduating in normal time. The cost is $6,895 and 44% more expensive than the average Missouri tuition of $15,515 for 4 year colleges. Tuition ranks 63rd in Missouri amongst 4 year colleges for affordability and is the 14th most expensive 4 year college in the state.
6 Half-time tuition and fee rates for 2015-16 of $13,918.00 for resident students and $24,708.00 for non-resident students are established for those pharmacy students who have been approved by the Dean of the College of Pharmacy to have a reduced curriculum load. (1) The full-time rate is charged to undergraduate students enrolled for 12 credit hours or more, graduate and professional doctoral students enrolled for 9 credit hours or more, and law students enrolled for 10 credit hours or more.
Tuition costs are listed per credit hour. The cost of attendance (COA) is an estimate of what it costs the typical student to attend Bellevue University and is used to determine how much Financial Aid a student is eligible for. Active duty members of the United States Military, National Guard, Reserve and Coast Guard who declare one of the following Undergraduate majors are eligible for a tuition rate of $250.00 per credit hour for all courses in their Undergraduate Degree: Criminal Justice.
$9,658.40 max for 8 or more cr hrs in Summer. $19,316.80 max for 16 or more cr hrs in Fall/Spring. In addition to the Tuition rates above, there are additional fees or special Tuition rates that may apply. See the Tuition and Fee Rates pages for Tuition and Required fee totals listed by credit hour. See the course catalog in the MyView student system to find out if a course has a Course Fee, Supplemental Fee or Special Rate.
$484.60. Additional Fees: College of Agriculture course fee is $20 per credit hour. College of Architecture, Planning & Design equipment fee is $40 per credit hour. College of Arts and Sciences fee is $8 per credit hour. College of Business Administration faculty salary surcharge is $35 per credit hour. College of Engineering equipment fee is $19