The Poston Census Designated Place had a population of 295 as of July 1, 2015. Poston ranks in the upper quartile for Diversity Index when compared to the other cities, towns and Census Designated Places (CDPs) in Arizona. Poston, AZ-Peer Comparisons by Rank and Percentile. The table below compares Poston to the other 451 incorporated cities, towns and CDPs in Arizona by rank and percentile using July 1, 2015 data. The location Ranked # 1 has the highest value
As Time Magazine wrote, After fifteen months at Arizona's vast Poston Relocation Center as a social analyst, Commander Leighton concluded that many an American simply fails to remember that U.S. Japanese are human beings.. The Colorado River was approximately 3 miles (4.8 km) to the west, outside of the camp perimeter. Poston was built on the Colorado River Indian Reservation, over the objections of the Tribal Council, who refused to be a part of doing to others what had been done to their tribe.
By December 1942, Gila River had a peak population of 13,348 and was Arizona’s fourth largest city. Gila River was considered a showplace compared with the other camps and Eleanor Roosevelt made a surprise visit to the camp in 1943 to look into charges that the Japanese Americans there were given special treatment. It was the largest incarceration camp in the U.S. and at 71,000 acres was the third largest city in the State. Gila River The Gila River camp in Florence, Arizona, northeast of the Casa Grande ruins, held people from Los Angeles, Sacramento and Amador Counties, San Joaquin Valley and Hawaii.
Nearest city with pop. 1,000,000+: Phoenix, AZ (137.4 miles, pop. 1,321,045). Nearest cities: Big River, CA (3.2 miles), Parker, AZ (3.5 miles), Bluewater, AZ (3.8 miles), Bluewater, CA (4.0 miles), Cienega Springs, AZ (4.1 miles), Parker Strip, AZ (4.5 miles), Bouse, AZ (4.8 miles), Quartzsite, AZ (5.0 miles). Colleges/universities with over 2000 students nearest to Poston: 1  Arizona Western College (about 91 miles; Yuma, AZ; Full-time enrollment: 5,454). 2  Mohave Community College (about 92 miles; Kingman, AZ; FT enrollment: 3,309). 3  Imperial Valley College (about 103 miles; Imperial, CA; FT enrollment: 5,313).
Arizona Zip Codes. Arizona is a state of the United States, located in the southwestern region of the country. Arizona is also part of the Western United States and of the Mountain West states. Arizona is the sixth most extensive and the 16th most populous of the 50 states. Its capital and largest city is Phoenix. The second largest city is Tucson, followed in population by eight cities of the Phoenix metropolitan area: Mesa, Chandler, Glendale, Scottsdale, Gilbert, Tempe, Peoria, and Surprise. Arizona is the 48th state and last of the contiguous states to be admitted to the Union, and it achieved statehood on February 14, 1912
Named after Charles Poston, the Father of Arizona and the state s first Superintendent for Indian Affairs, the Poston internment camp was located about twelve miles south of Parker on the Colorado River Indian Tribes Reservation. Poston I, the largest of the three camps, was the farthest north. It included administration offices, staff housing areas, warehouses, 36 evacuee residential blocks, a hospital and a military police compound that served the entire camp.
Historic Sites, Poston, Arizona. Poston Japanese Internment Camp. We visited the abandoned Japanese Internment Camp in Poston Arizona better known as Colorado River Relocation Center. This place is huge with many intact structures and in good shape for being abandoned for 70 years.
The combined peak population of the Poston camps was over 17,000, mostly from Southern California. At the time Poston was the third largest city in Arizona. It was built by Del Webb, who would later become famous building Sun City, Arizona and other retirement communities. The Colorado River was approximately 3 miles (4.8 km) to the west, outside of the camp perimeter. Poston was built on the Colorado River Indian Reservation, over the objections of the Tribal Council, who refused to be a part of doing to others what had been done to their tribe.