1 ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 2  ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 3  ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 4  ventral posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus. 5  ventral posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus. 1 Ventral posterior nucleus. 2  ventral posterior nucleus of thalamus. 3  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 4  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 5  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 6  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 7  Ventral posterolateral nucleus.
Together with the ventral posteromedial nucleus (VPM), ventral posterior inferior nucleus (VPI) and ventromedial posterior nucleus (VMpo), it constitutes the ventral posterior nucleus. The ventral posterolateral nucleus (VPL) is a nucleus of the thalamus.
ventral posterior nucleus. the somato-sensory relay nucleus in thalamus of the brain. receives neuronal input from the medial lemniscus, spinal lemniscus, spinothalamic tracts, and trigeminothalamic tract. It projects to the somatosensory cortex and the ascending reticuloactivation system. ventral posterolateral nucleus (VPL). receives information from the neospinothalamic tract and the medial lemniscus of the posterior column-medial lemniscus pathway. It then projects this sensory information to Brodmann's Areas 3, 1 and 2 in the postcentral gyrus.
A recording electrode was placed stereotactically in the ventral posterior lateral nucleus of thalamus (VPL), and a ball electrode was placed over the surface of the hind limb region of primary sensory cortex. Twenty-two STT cells projected to the ventral posterior lateral nucleus (L-STT cells), 11 to the medial thalamus (M-STT cells), and 9 to both thalamic regions (LM-STT cells).
1 ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 2  ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 3  ventral posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus. 4  ventral posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus. 5  ventral posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus. 1 Ventral posterior nucleus. 2  ventral posterior nucleus of thalamus. 3  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 4  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 5  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 6  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 7  Ventral posterolateral nucleus.
The ventral tier of the lateral division contains the ventral posterior, the ventral lateral (VL) and ventral anterior (VA) nuclei. The ventral posterior is further divided into the ventral posteromedial (VPM) and ventral posterolateral nuclei (VPL). The dorsal tier contains, from caudal to rostral, the pulvinar, the lateral posterior (LP) and the lateral dorsal (LD) nuclei. 
The nuclei sampled were the first order ventral posterior nucleus (somatosensory) and the ventral portion of the medial geniculate nucleus (auditory), and the higher order posterior nucleus (somatosensory) and the medial portion of the medial geniculate nucleus (auditory). Results show that the lesions were centered upon the posterior portion of the ventral lateral (VLp) nucleus of the thalamus, included the posterior part of the ventral lateral anterior nucleus (VLa), and extended posteriorly to encroach upon the most rostral sector of the sensory ventral posterior nucleus (VPLa).
1 ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 2  ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 3  ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 4  ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. 5  ventral posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus. 1 Ventral posterior nucleus. 2  ventral posterior nucleus of thalamus. 3  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 4  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 5  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 6  ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. 7  Ventral posterolateral nucleus.
The ventral posterior nucleus is the somato-sensory relay nucleus in thalamus of the brain. 1 Ventral posterolateral nucleus, which receives sensory information from the body. 2  Ventral posteromedial nucleus, which receives sensory information from the head and face via the trigeminal nerve.