Few breeds have as much controversy as to their origins as does the Brahma chicken. While many varied claims were originally accepted as fact by early authors, the truth of the matter is that this breed was developed in America from very large fowls imported from China via the port of Shanghai. First and foremost Brahmas are found to be extremely hardy chickens. They are also good egg-layers for their size. Considered a superior winter-layer, they produce the bulk of their eggs from October to May. The eggs of the Brahma are large and uniformly medium brown in color.
It depends on the breed. There are Banties that only grow as big as a pigeon all the way up to the Brahma originally from China known for years as the king of chickens and the Jersey Giant developed in the 1870's in New Jersey.
Originally known as the Brahma Poutras Chicken. Brahma Chickens are quite majestic and are sometimes referred to as the King Of Chickens due to their large size, the cocks can weigh between 11 & 12 pounds. They seem even bigger as they have a profuse of feathers which extend down their legs and onto their feet. For a big bird, the Brahma lays relatively small eggs. They are not amongst the most prolific layers and don’t start to lay until about 7 months of age. However you can expect 2 – 3 eggs per week from your Brahma hen. They also lay into the darker months as well.
The Brahma is a fancy breed with fully feathered shanks and feet and a red pea comb. This pretty chicken breed is a good winter layer of brown eggs and an excellent source of chicken meat. A massive breed, the Brahma roosters can get up to 12 pounds and the standard hens weight is around 9.5 pounds. Though the breed is slow to mature, it is a good layer of medium brown eggs and is extremely hardy in hot and cold conditions.
Email me when this is Available. Light Brahma Chicken The standard breed of Brahma Chickens is a heavy bird named for the Brahmaputra River in India, the Brahma is thought to have developed by certain crossings of other Asiaticlike the Chinese Shanghai, commonly known as Cochin Chicken, and the Chittagong Chicken. A massive breed, the Brahma roosters can get up to 12 pounds and the standard hens weight is around 9.5 pounds. Though the breed is slow to mature, it is a good layer of medium brown eggs and is extremely hardy in hot and cold conditions.
(Redirected from Brahma (chicken)). The Brahma is a large breed of chicken developed in the United States from very large birds imported from the Chinese port of Shanghai. The Brahma was the principal meat breed in the US from the 1850s until about 1930. Some birds were very large: weights of about 8 kg (18 lb) for cocks and 6 kg (13 lb) for hens were recorded. There it is considered that Brahma breed originated from India around the Brahma Putra River (ISLAMIA UNIVERSITY BAHAWALPUR)
Brahma Chickens Egg Laying & Broodiness. For a big bird, the Brahma lays relatively small eggs. They are not amongst the most prolific layers and don’t start to lay until about 7 months of age. However you can expect 2 – 3 eggs per week from your Brahma hen. They also lay into the darker months as well.
History. Brahmas arrived in the UK around 1840-1850. The name Brahma comes from the river Brahmaputra in India although the species was created in America from large feather legged birds known as Shanghais which were imported from China in the 1840s. Behaviour. Brahmas are very large, stately, docile birds who make good reliable broodies which can cover a large number of eggs due to their size. The eggs are small and low in number but chicks hatch strongly and grow quickly. Their feathering is beautiful and they are very elegant bird