The origins of Italian surnames vary. Many are derived from the names of people, places, professions, or nicknames, and most originated in the Middle Ages, when the practice largely started. Frequently, the geographical origin of a person can be deduced from his last name, since certain endings are characteristic of certain regions. For example, the Italian last name Ferrero is associated with the Piemonte region, while Bissacco is associated with Friuli-Venezia Giulia. A large number of Italian surnames end in the letter i, due to the medieval Italian habit of identifying families by the name of the ancestors in the plural. Some Italian family names were formed using a modifying suffix, for example:
The Norman form of the name was Gisleberth in the Domesday Book of 1086. The name means bright youth, and is composed of the adopted Germanic elements gisil, noble youth, sometimes hostage, with berht, bright, famous. George Gibb married Katherine Gould on September 21st 1668, at Harefield, Middlesex.A Coat of Arms was granted to the Gibb(e) family and has the blazon of a silver shield thereon three halberts in fess sable, heads to the sinister.
The Yiddish word for circle is kikel (pronounced KY-kul), and for little circle, kikeleh (pronounced KY-kul-uh). Before long the immigration inspectors were calling anyone who signed with an O in place of an X a kikel or kikeleh or kikee or, finally and succinctly, kike. The source of the term is uncertain, but the Encyclopedia of Swearing stated the most reasonable and most likely origin of the term is the one proposed by Leo Rosten, according to whom:
The crest being a Bengal tiger passant proper. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Winc Gibbe, which was dated 1290, in the Ancient Deeds of Norfolk, during the reign of King Edward 1, known as The Hammer of the Scots, 1272 - 1307. George Gibb married Katherine Gould on September 21st 1668, at Harefield, Middlesex.A Coat of Arms was granted to the Gibb(e) family and has the blazon of a silver shield thereon three halberts in fess sable, heads to the sinister.
As a personal name the diminutive form of Gilbert, Gibb, is first recorded in the Pipe Rolls of Nottinghamshire of 1179, as Gibbe de Huckenhale. George Gibb married Katherine Gould on September 21st 1668, at Harefield, Middlesex.A Coat of Arms was granted to the Gibb(e) family and has the blazon of a silver shield thereon three halberts in fess sable, heads to the sinister.
The Fibiger (or Fiebiger or Febiger) family history has been traced back to 1520 in Loebau löbau In. Germany from there some migrated, south first to Upper saxony and later even further south to Northern. Bohemia, later they migrated north Into, denmark and since then they have spread to all over the. world Johannes Andreas Grib Fibiger was born at Silkeborg (Denmark) on April 23, 1867. His father, C. E. A. Fibiger, was a local medical practitioner and his mother, Elfride Muller, was a writer. Fibiger gained his bachelor’s degree in 1883 and qualified as a doctor in 1890.
The reason why that we in Denmark have extensive knowledge about our ancestors is that around 1920 the rumor was that a Fibiger had struck gold in the US and that there were a lot of money to be inherited. This motivated the family to explore our family history. Johannes Andreas Grib Fibiger was born at Silkeborg (Denmark) on April 23, 1867. His father, C. E. A. Fibiger, was a local medical practitioner and his mother, Elfride Muller, was a writer. Fibiger gained his bachelor’s degree in 1883 and qualified as a doctor in 1890.
Full text of  A Grammar of American Surnames: Being an Introduction to the Study of American Nomenclature; and ... 