Mushrooms need 6 conditions to grow. Morels.com › Forums › Iowa › Mushrooms need 6 conditions to grow. This topic contains 1 reply, has 2 voices, and was last updated by BadDogBetsy 2 years, 5 months ago. The ground can’t be so compact that it blocks the mycelium from doing it’s thing. This is also where the moisture and heat help soften the soil as things thaw out in the spring. The ground being less compact and saturated with extra moisture are also what makes streams and creekbeds such good places to check. 2.
Temperature. Mushroom prefer a cool environment with temperatures around 70 degrees Fahrenheit. Wild mushrooms are less finicky when it comes to temperatures, as they can form mycelia, which are the threads of the fungus body, in temperatures that range from 40 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit. The mushrooms form the fruit or visible parts when temperatures reach between 50 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit.
Morel mushrooms need 5 things to emerge and the reason they are so elusive is all five have to fall into place correctly or when the other conditions are present before they can push through the ground and produce the above ground bloom that sends out spores and produces what we all know as a morel.. The ground can’t be so compact that it blocks the mycelium from doing it’s thing. This is also where the moisture and heat help soften the soil as things thaw out in the spring. The ground being less compact and saturated with extra moisture are also what makes streams and creekbeds such good places to check. 2.
These flowers, along with temperature, are indicators of when to look for morels. The where isn't quite as simple. Where the spores fall, cross pollinate and germinate is basically where morels will grow — after a five-year cycle of nutrient-gathering and storage. 
Morels are highly prized among mushroom hunters. Their emergence is influenced by soil temperatures. Taking the soil temperature in an area where morels are known to grow is an effective way to gauge when they may appear. Ideal Temperatures. Morels grown under controlled conditions for commercial purposes fruit when the soil reaches a consistent temperature of approximately 53 degrees F. Wild morels also appear under these conditions.
Soil Temperature. Generally, soil temperatures must reach 50 degress F before morels will begin to fruit in your area. This is a good rule of thumb for when to start looking, not an exact number to hold fast to. Kuo (2005) suggests morels can be found at soil temperatures as low as 47 deg. F. He does not specify whether this is for yellows or blacks. I would suspect blacks can begin forming at even lower soil temperatures. This map provides soil temperatures that are updated daily
Water Mushrooms need water for their fruit to grow. That is why a saucer and a humidity tent is included with Mushroom Kits TM. Mushrooms have no skin so they can lose water to the atmosphere very easily. That is why they grow in high humidity (lots of water vapor in the air) conditions.
Morel Growth and Emergence. When soil temperatures are ideal, the body of the morel begins to fruit as a tiny knot on an underground network of mycelium, a complex of long, thread-like fungi cells. The knot rapidly enlarges until it becomes a tiny club that pushes its way to the soil surface. Ideal Temperatures. Morels grown under controlled conditions for commercial purposes fruit when the soil reaches a consistent temperature of approximately 53 degrees F. Wild morels also appear under these conditions.
Morel Mushrooms will grow when the temperature, humidity, variance between daytime and nighttime temperature, soil acidity and many other factors are JUST RIGHT. The season for Morel Mushrooms begins sooner in the southern climes and works its way north as the daytime temperatures get warmer sooner. Instructions on how to hunt for Morel Mushrooms are guidelines. I say this because, much like fishing or other outdoor activities, nature just doesn't always cooperate! That is why so many people enjoy Morel Mushroom hunting. If it was always as easy as walking to the grocery store it wouldn't be nearly as exciting.