Bangui M'Poko International Airport (BGF) is the airport serving Bangui. It is located 7km (4 miles) northwest of Bangui. In 2004, the airport served 53,862 passengers. There are flights to Douala, Tripoli, Paris (once a week), Brazzaville, Yaounde, Yaoundé cotonou And'N. djamena
Bangui has a city population of about 530,000 inhabitants. Spoken languages are French (official) and Sango. The map shows a city map of Bangui with expressways and the location of Bangui's M'Poko International Airport (IATA code: BGF), about 7km (4 mi) northwest of the city. To find a location use the form below. To find a location type: street or place, city, optional: state, country
It is served by the Bangui M'Poko International Airport. The National Assembly, government buildings, banks, foreign enterprises and embassies, hospitals, hotels, main markets and the Ngaragba Central Prison are all located here. Bangui, close to the country's southern border, lies on the northern banks of the Ubangi River just below a series of rapids that limit major commercial shipping upriver. The only major city located on the river, it covers an area of 67 square kilometres (26 sq mi).
Bangui (baeng-bäng´) , gē (city 1994. est. 560,000), 560000 capital of The Central African, republic a port on The Ubangi, river near The (Congo) kinshasa. Border bangui is an, administrative, trade and communications. Center its manufactures include, textiles food, products, beer, shoes and. soap Bangui Capital of the Central African Republic, on the River Ubangi, near the Zaire zaïre. Border founded in 1889 by The, french it is the'nation s chief port for international. trade
The Northwind Bangui Bay Project is located at the municipality of Bangui, Ilocos Norte, Philippines. Located at the north-west tip of Luzon, Longitude N18o 31’ 30” and Latitude N120o 40’ 30” up to N120o 45’ 30”, the windmills face the sea from where the wind blows towards the land. 
The Northwind Bangui Bay Project is located at the municipality of Bangui, Ilocos Norte, Philippines. Located at the north-west tip of Luzon island, the windmills face the sea from where the wind blows towards the land. Its location along the shore is optimal in removing windbreaks and has a terrain roughness of 0. Bangui Wind Farm is a wind farm in Bangui, Ilocos Norte, Philippines. The wind farm uses 20 units of 70-metre (230 ft) high Vestas V82 1.65 MW wind turbines, arranged on a single row stretching along a nine-kilometer shoreline off Bangui Bay, facing the West Philippine Sea
The city of Bangui is located on the northern banks of River Ubangi. The river forms a few steep rapids just before the banks. So, upriver navigation is seriously hindered in this region. The Ubangi River finally flows out to meet the Congo River. About city. Bangui is the capital of the Central African Republic. Covering an area of 67 sq km and with an approximate population of 750,000 recorded in 2012, it is also the largest city in the country.
Bangui Geographical Location. Bangui is located in the south of the Central African Republic on the banks of the Ubangi River. The population of Bangui is approximately 630,000. JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use Google Maps. However, it seems JavaScript is either disabled or not supported by your browser. Bangui Language. French is the official language of the Central African Republic and Sangho is the national language. In addition to these two there are also many tribal languages still spoken.