It is called Philtrum. It is formed where the nasomedial and maxillary processes meet during embryonic development. The philtrum runs from under the nose to the top of the li … p. It may be more flat if a person has Fetal Alcohol Syndrome, and it also becomes more flattened with age. Philtrum cosmetic surgery may deepen one's philtrum. Parafiltrum is the name of the skin between the nose and the upper lip.
A medical term that means pertaining to under the tongue is____________. 
Quick-acting forms of nitroglycerin are used to relieve angina or used just before activities that typically cause angina. The quick-acting forms include tablets or oral sprays. The tablets are placed under the tongue (sublingual) or between the cheek and gum (buccal). The spray is used on or under the tongue. 1 Taking nitroglycerin can lower your blood pressure, which could cause you to pass out if you are standing up. 2  For sudden episodes of angina, use nitroglycerin in a tablet or liquid spray form. 3  Place the under-the-tongue (sublingual) tablet under your tongue. 4  Leave it there until it dissolves.
In medical terminology, the apex refers to uppermost point, or just  the pointed end. In the lungs, the apex is at the top, the heart  the bottom, the tongue would be the po … inted end that one can stick  out. 1 person found this useful. Peakay Tea. The word you are looking for is cervical, such as a cervical collar for a sprained neck, or a cervical roll (a neck pillow). Also, C1, C2, etc. as in cervical 1, etc., for … the names of the upper spinal discs. Nuchal refers to the nape of the neck. 4 people
Clue: Pertaining to the tongue. We have 1 possible answer for the clue Pertaining to the tongue which appears 1 time in our database. 
1 Proverbs on the Use of the Tongue How to use this list: Since all of us have trouble controlling our tongue, we should consider carefully the counsel Solomon, acclaimed as the wisest man in the world, gives us about our speech. Proverbs 15:4 The tongue that brings healing is a tree of life, but a deceitful tongue crushes the spirit. Proverbs 16:1 To man belong the plans of the heart, but from the LORD comes the reply of the tongue. Proverbs 17:4 A wicked man listens to evil lips; a liar pays attention to a malicious tongue.
The tongue is a muscular hydrostat on the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates that manipulates food for mastication. It is the primary organ of taste (gustation), as much of its upper surface is covered in taste buds. The tongue's upper surface is also covered in numerous lingual papillae. It is sensitive and kept moist by saliva, and is richly supplied with nerves and blood vessels.
Under the tongue is sublingual (most common), subglossal, or hypoglossal. The philtrum runs from under the nose to the top of the li … p. It may be more flat if a person has Fetal Alcohol Syndrome, and it also becomes more flattened with age. Philtrum cosmetic surgery may deepen one's philtrum. Parafiltrum is the name of the skin between the nose and the upper lip.