Medications for Depression and Bipolar Disorder. Your health care provider (HCP) might prescribe one or more medications to treat your symptoms. These may include: 1  Mood stabilizers. 2  These medications help even out your highs and lows. 3  Some mood stabilizer medications are called anticonvulsants, because they are also used to treat epilepsy. 4  Antidepressants. 5  These medications help lift the symptoms of depression. 1
1 Whether you have bipolar I or II disorder, you'll typically need mood-stabilizing medication to control manic or hypomanic episodes. 2  Examples of mood stabilizers include lithium (Lithobid), valproic acid (Depakene), divalproex sodium (Depakote), carbamazepine (Tegretol, Equetro, others) and lamotrigine (Lamictal). 1 The medication Symbyax combines the antidepressant fluoxetine and the antipsychotic olanzapine. 2  It works as a depression treatment and a mood stabilizer. 3  Symbyax is approved by the Food and Drug Administration specifically for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.
Bipolar disorder is characterized by cycling mood changes: severe highs (mania) and lows (depression). Episodes may be predominantly manic or depressive, with normal mood between episodes. Lithium evens out mood swings in both directions – from mania to depression, and depression to mania – so it is used not just for manic attacks or flare-ups of the illness but also as an ongoing maintenance treatment for bipolar disorder.
In most people with bipolar disorder, there is no clear cause for the periods (episodes) of extreme happiness and high activity or energy (mania) or depression and low activity or energy (depression). The following may trigger a manic episode: Childbirth. Medicines such as antidepressants or steroids. 
Treatment options for bipolar disorder. If a person is not treated, episodes of bipolar-related mania can last for between three and six months. Episodes of depression tend to last longer, for between 6 and 12 months. However, with effective treatment, episodes usually improve within about three months. Most people with bipolar disorder can be treated using a combination of different treatments.
Lithium. The medication used most often to treat bipolar disorder is lithium. Lithium evens out mood swings in both directions – from mania to depression, and depression to mania – so it is used not just for manic attacks or flare-ups of the illness but also as an ongoing maintenance treatment for bipolar disorder.
While antidepressants are effective treatment for people with major depressive (unipolar) disorder, antidepressants they are not always as effective for bipolar depression, and generally should not be given alone (monotherapy) in people with bipolar I disorder. According to the American Psychiatric Association (APA), lithium, lamotrigine, valproate, carbamazepine, and most atypical antipsychotic medications are approved by the FDA for treating one (or more) phases of bipolar disorder.
A. A. Treatment for bipolar depression has come a long way from the days (not so long ago) when patients were given sedatives and medications with numerous side effects. Today, mood stabilizing drugs are a mainstay treatment for bipolar disorder. Doctors may prescribe lithium, an antimanic drug, or an antipsychotic drug -- or a combination of both -- in order to alleviate symptoms of depression without triggering a manic episode. According to the American Psychiatric Association (APA), lithium, lamotrigine, valproate, carbamazepine, and most atypical antipsychotic medications are approved by the FDA for treating one (or more) phases of
Bipolar Disorder Therapy. Along with medication, ongoing psychotherapy, or talk therapy, is an important part of treatment for bipolar disorder. During therapy, you can discuss feelings, thoughts, and behaviors that cause you problems. This is called maintenance therapy for bipolar disorder. During a period of bipolar depression, you might need other medications. Lithium and other mood stabilizers, certain antipsychotic drugs that treat bipolar depression, and sometimes antidepressants are used to treat bipolar depression.