At latitude 40° north, earliest sunset occurs around December 8 each year, and latest sunrise occurs around January 5. The day with the least amount of daylight is the winter solstice, the first day of winter, on or about December 21. The dates of earliest sunset and latest sunrise are the dates before and after the winter solstice when, at a given latitude, the magnitude of half the daily change in ts equals the magnitude of the daily change of the Equation of Time.
As we have seen, in late December, both sunrise and sunset occur later each day. But after the solstice, the geometric effect, considered alone, tends to shift sunrise earlier as the Sun's daily track in the sky becomes more northerly and longer. But that effect is weaker than the clock effect—at least, for a while. The dates of earliest sunset and latest sunrise are the dates before and after the winter solstice when, at a given latitude, the magnitude of half the daily change in ts equals the magnitude of the daily change of the Equation of Time.
The shortest day of the year is the day of the winter solstice, usually December 21. It seems reasonable that the latest sunrise and earliest sunset would both occur on the shortest day. But if sunset is a little later each day, then the earliest sunset has already happened! Similarly, later solar noons at the solstice imply later sunrises, hence sunrise is getting later and the latest sunrise is yet to occur.
The first inhabited land in the U.S. where the sunrise will occur is at about 6:45 AM January 1, local time (20:45 December 31 UT) in Guam at Inarajan (13° 17' N 144° 45' E) about 3 minutes after it rises on the peak of Lamlam Mountain, Guam. If you are worried about not seeing the sunrise because of refraction effects, the place to be assured of seeing the sunrise is at the northern tip of the Dibble Glacier (66° 0' ± 1' S, 134° 37' ± 2' E) where the Sun rises at about 12:25 AM on January 1, local time (15:22 on December 31 UT).
But, few people notice something unusual, sunrise does not occur earlier until well after the solstice. That is, until well into January the days grow longer because sunset is a little later each day while sunrise might actually occur later or hold at the same time for several days. The U.S. Naval Observatory table for sunrise and sunset times in Indianapolis shows that the sun rises there at rises at 8:03 a.m. and sets at 5:24 p.m. on Dec. 22. By Dec. 25, the sun rises at 8:04 and sets at 5:26.
Summer arrives in the northern hemisphere on June 21st -- the summer solstice, which is also the longest day of the year. But strangely enough, the solstice does not mark the day that the Sun rises the earliest. In fact, the date of earliest sunrise is about a week before the solstice. And the latest sunset occurs about a week after the solstice. The mismatch occurs for two reasons. First, Earth's orbit around the Sun is not a perfect circle. 
Sunrise occurs before the Sun actually reaches the horizon because the Sun's image is refracted by the Earth's atmosphere. At the horizon, the average amount of refraction is 34 arcminutes, though this amount varies based on atmospheric conditions. Variations in atmospheric refraction can alter the time of sunrise by changing its apparent position. Near the poles, the time-of-day variation is exaggerated, since the Sun crosses the horizon at a very shallow angle and thus rises more slowly.
It seems reasonable that the latest sunrise and earliest sunset would both occur on the shortest day. But it's not so; the earliest sunset is generally a couple of weeks earlier and the latest sunrise is generally a couple of weeks later. 
In short, the earliest sunset/winter solstice/latest sunrise and earliest sunrise/summer solstice/latest sunset phenomena are due to the fact that true solar days are longer than 24 hours long for several weeks before and after the solstices. 
Similarly, the earliest sunrise occurs when the Sun reaches the spot on the analemma that is the first point to leave the horizon every morning. It is clear from the diagram that the earliest sunrise does not occur at the summer solstice and the latest sunrise does not occur at the winter solstice. 