Preschool services in SA are provided for children in the year prior to the child starting school. Most children start preschool at the age of four years and attend for 12 months prior to commencing school. In Victoria, a child must turn four years old by April 30 in the year they start going to preschool. A child in Tasmania must be aged four by January 1 in the year they enrol in kindergarten.
Where I live there is some social pressure to start one's child/toddler at a daycare/preschool at the age of 2. The preschool/daycare we selected is considered one of the best and has been around for 30 years, so I know he will be in good hands.
If you want your child to have 2 years of preschool, then start them at two or three depending if they are born before the school year starts or after.Kids usually start kinder garden at the age of 4 or 5.Again, it depends on what month they were born in.
Preschool is for children ages 3 and 4. When a child is 5 they start kindergarten. You do have to pay for preschool and the amount will depend on how many days a week they go. Usually preschoolers go to school 2 or 3 days a week.
Most preschools will start accepting children at around age 2 ½, but that doesn't mean your child is magically ready for preschool when he reaches that age. Readiness for preschool has more to do with where your child is developmentally.
And many children are not ready for formal education until four or five years' old. Preschool may be as little a few hours a week to a full-day program, five days a week. As dgraab responds, some preschools require bathroom independence, but others do not. Also, preschool education is not necessarily a requirement.
Clueless. First of all, Preschool usually means a preschool for 3 and 4 year olds that starts a new class every fall. These preschools do not accept children who are younger than 3 (or about to turn 3.) The idea is that children attend a preschool for one or two years just prior to starting kindergarten.
Preschool starting ages. Children in the ACT must be four years of age on or before 30 April to enrol in an ACT public school and be placed in a preschool class.