The Silver Star Medal is Awarded for gallantry in action against an enemy of the United States, or while engaged in military operations involving conflict against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a belligerent party. The actual Silver Star Medal was instituted in 1932 with the first award presented to General Douglas MacArthur, the Army’s then-Chief-of-Staff. The Silver Star Medal was designed by Rudolf Freund of the firm of Bailey, Banks and Biddle.
The tradition of a service banner with a blue star covered with silver threads to represent wounded service personnel began in 1917 or 1918 following the suggestion of Women’s Committee of the Council of National Defenses, but faded from use sometime between World War I and World War II. The Silver Star Service Banner is reserved for those who have been wounded, contracted a serious illness or injury in a war zone. The Silver Star Service Flag may be flown by anyone as a symbols of remembrance and honor. It may be flown during war or peace time.
Full Definition of SILVER STAR. : a United States military decoration awarded for gallantry in action —called also Silver Star Medal. See Silver Star defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Because the Silver Star is ONLY awarded for combat valor, the only devices worn on it are: Bronze Oak Leaf Clusters in lieu of additional Army/AF awards Silver Oak Leaf Clusters in lieu of a SIXTH Army/AF award Gold Star in lieu of additional Navy/USMC awards Silver Star in lieu of a SIXTH Navy/USMC award. For Navy/Marine Corps Awards it would be a Silver Star plus 1 Gold Star.). The Silver Star was established by President Woodrow Wilson as a Citation Star during World War I, and was solely a U.S. Army award, though it was presented by the War Department (U.S. Army) to members of the Navy and to U.S. Marines.
13. Silver Star. a. The Silver Star is awarded to persons who, while serving in any capacity with the Army, distinguish themselves by gallantry in action not warranting the award of a Medal of Honor or Distinguished-Service Cross. See act 15 December 1942 (56 Stat. 1052; 10 U.S.C. 1412; M.L. 1939, Sup. II, sec. 908).
The Bronze Star Medal, unofficially the Bronze Star, is a United States decoration awarded to members of the United States Armed Forces for either heroic achievement, heroic service, meritorious achievement, or meritorious service in a combat zone. 
The original Citation Star is incorporated into the center of the medal. Authorization for the Silver Star Medal was placed into law by an Act of Congress for the U.S. Navy on August 7, 1942 and an Act of Congress for the U.S. Army on December 15, 1942. The Silver Star is the successor award to the  Citation Star  (3⁄16 silver star) which was established by an Act of Congress on July 9, 1918. On July 19, 1932, the Secretary of War approved the conversion of the Citation Star to the Silver Star Medal
The organization was founded in 2004 by Steve and Diana Newton with the assistance of Joseph and Sharon Newton and the entire Newton family. It is not related to the military decoration designated the Silver Star. The Silver Star Service Banner is reserved for those who have been wounded, contracted a serious illness or injury in a war zone. The Silver Star Service Flag may be flown by anyone as a symbols of remembrance and honor. It may be flown during war or peace time.
The Silver Star, officially the Silver Star Medal, is the third-highest military decoration for valor awarded to members of the United States Armed Forces. The Silver Star is the successor award to the  Citation Star  (3⁄16 silver star) which was established by an Act of Congress on July 9, 1918. On July 19, 1932, the Secretary of War approved the conversion of the Citation Star to the Silver Star Medal