trait. A characteristic or condition that is determined by one's genes. The color of an animal's coat and the shape of a plant's leaves are physical traits. Nesting in birds and burrowing in rodents are examples of behavioral traits. - A stroke of a pen or pencil. 1. a distinguishing characteristic or quality, esp. of one's personal nature: bad traits. 2. an inherited feature or characteristic: a recessive trait. 3. a pencil stroke. 4. a touch or trace. tractus.
Heritability is a concept that summarizes how much of the variation in a trait is due to variation in genetic factors. Often, this term is used in reference to the resemblance between parents and their offspring. The effect of a particular allele on a trait depends on the allele's frequency in the population and the effect of each genotype that includes the allele. This is sometimes termed the average effect of an allele.
Leadership trait theory says that there are defined personality traits that distinguish leaders from followers. In other words, leaders are different types of people from followers. Behavioural theories of leadership state that it is the behaviour of leaders that distinguishes them from their followers. This is a question to which there is no easy answer. As with many academic theories, leadership trait theory is perhaps best thought of as an interesting idea, but one which should not handicap you if you wish to seek a position as leader, whether formally or informally.
Heritability of quantitative traits, formally defined as the proportion of phenotypic variance in a population attributable to additive genetic factors (narrow-sense heritability, h 2 (ref. 36)) is typically estimated from family studies, and can be expected to vary across environments. 
A trait is a physical characteristic that an organism passes on to  its offspring. Trait is the same as characteristics, which are part  of a person's personality. An exampl … e of a trait is kindness or  sincerity. 4 people found this useful. A trait is an element of personality that is relatively stable throughout the lifespan and across contexts. In other words, a trait is a consistent element of self that makes … that person who he is. Traits are the general tendencies you'd list if you were asked to describe your child or your best friend
This value creates genetic variation in a population when it varies between individuals. In fact, heritability is formally defined as the proportion of phenotypic variation (V P) that is due to variation in genetic values (V G). Genotypes or genotypic values are not passed on from parents to progeny; rather, it is the alleles at the loci that influence the traits that are passed on. The effect of a particular allele on a trait depends on the allele's frequency in the population and the effect of each genotype that includes the allele. This is sometimes termed the average effect of an allele.
(April 2014). A highly sensitive person (HSP) is a person having the innate trait of high sensory processing sensitivity (or innate sensitiveness, as originally coined by Carl Jung). Some common signs are sensitivity to loud noises, bright or fluorescent lights, and strong smells
Leadership trait theory is one of the earliest theories of leadership, which can be traced back to Thomas Carlyle’s 1849 assertion that “the history of the world was the biography of great men”. This is a question to which there is no easy answer. As with many academic theories, leadership trait theory is perhaps best thought of as an interesting idea, but one which should not handicap you if you wish to seek a position as leader, whether formally or informally.