The Dharavi Slums. Asia's largest slum, Dharavi, lies in the heart of India's financial capital, Mumbai (Bombay). Dharavi is located between Mumbai's 2 main suburban rail lines, most people find it useful for work, it is located 12km south-east of Juhu. Rents here can be as low as 185 rupees ($4/£2.20) per month. As Dharavi is located between Mumbai's two main suburban rail lines, most people find it convenient for work. Even in the smallest of rooms, there is usually a cooking gas stove and continuous electricity
Dharavi (Mumbai). slum Add category. Dharavi, often described as the largest slum in Asia, is a 427 acre triangular stretch of land in central Mumbai, housing more than 600,000 slum dwellers; the unofficial number can go near a million. Gajakesari. Dharavi, often described as the largest slum in Asia, is a 427 acre triangular stretch of land in central Mumbai, housing more than 600,000 slum dwellers; the unofficial number can go near a million.
At India's independence from colonial rule in 1947, Dharavi had grown to be the largest slum in Mumbai and all of India. It still had a few empty spaces, which continued to serve as waste-dumping grounds for operators across the city. Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to grow as a city. Dharavi is situated between Mumbai's two main suburban railway lines, the Western and Central Railways. To its west are Mahim and Bandra, and to the north lies the Mithi River, which empties into the Arabian Sea through the Mahim Creek. To its south and east are Sion and Matunga.
India and Mumbai's biggest slum is known as Dharavi. There are a million people crammed into one square mile in Dharavi. At the edge of Dharavi the newest arrivals come to make their homes on waste land next to water pipes in slum areas. Dharavi has a recycling zone. It is claimed that Dharavi s recycling zone could be the way forward to a sustainable future. Everything is recycled from cosmetics and plastics to computer keyboards. 23% of plastic waste gets recycled in the UK, in Mumbai it is 80%.
Asia's largest slum, Dharavi, lies on prime property right in the middle of India's financial capital, Mumbai (Bombay). It is home to more than a million people. Many are second-generation residents, whose parents moved in years ago. 
Often dubbed “Asia’s largest slum,” Dharavi is in fact a heart-shaped agglomeration of primarily informal settlements, literally located in the heart of Mumbai, India’s commercial capital. 
Dharavi is routinely called the largest slum in Asia, a dubious attribution sometimes conflated into the largest slum in the world.. This is not true. Mexico City's Neza-Chalco-Itza barrio has four times as many people. In Asia, Karachi's Orangi Township has surpassed Dharavi. Even in Mumbai, where about half of the city's swelling 12 million population lives in what is euphemistically referred to as informal housing, other slum pockets rival Dharavi in size and squalor. Yet Dharavi remains unique among slums.
Dharavi slum is located in Mumbai (formally Bombay) in India. Bombay is a thriving megacity that has had an economic boom in recent years. It is home to Bollywood and the film Slumdog Millionaire was based there. Indeed, property in Mumbai is becoming some of the most expensive in the world. Dharavi has a recycling zone. It is claimed that Dharavi s recycling zone could be the way forward to a sustainable future. Everything is recycled from cosmetics and plastics to computer keyboards. 23% of plastic waste gets recycled in the UK, in Mumbai it is 80%.