Montserrat is a small island is situated in the Caribbean and 12 miles long and 7 miles wide. Montserrat is a small island is situated in the Caribbean and 12 miles long and 7 miles wide. It is known as the 'Emerald Island' and is mountainous with plenty of woodland. 
Montserrat is an island in the Caribbean, southeast of Puerto Rico. A former popular resort, it's recovering from a hurricane and volcanic activity during the 1980s and 1990s. It is an overseas territory of the United Kingdom. Montserrat is small, but getting larger. The erupting volcano is gradually extending the southern end of the island. Montserrat was 11 miles long and 7 miles wide with a land mass of approximately 39 square miles. Since volcanic activity the island is slightly larger due to deposits of ash from pyroclastic flows.
Montserrat measures approximately 16 km (10 mi) long and 11 km (7 mi) wide, with approximately 40 km (25 mi) of coastline. Montserrat is nicknamed The Emerald Isle of the Caribbean both for its resemblance to coastal Ireland and for the Irish ancestry of many of its inhabitants. On 18 July 1995, the previously dormant Soufriere Soufrière hills, volcano in the southern part of the, island became. active The island of Montserrat is approximately 480 km (300 mi) east-southeast of Puerto Rico and 48 km (30 mi) southwest of Antigua. It comprises 104 km 2 (40 sq mi) and is gradually increasing owing to the buildup of volcanic deposits on the southeast coast.
On 18 July 1995, the previously dormant Soufriere Soufrière hills, volcano in the southern part of the, island became. Active eruptions Destroyed'montserrat S georgian era capital city Of. Plymouth between 1995 and, 2000-two thirds of the'island s population was forced to, flee primarily To Great. britain The island of Montserrat is approximately 480 km (300 mi) east-southeast of Puerto Rico and 48 km (30 mi) southwest of Antigua. It comprises 104 km 2 (40 sq mi) and is gradually increasing owing to the buildup of volcanic deposits on the southeast coast.
Montserrat (. [munsəˈrat]) is a multi-peaked mountain located near the city of Barcelona, in Catalonia, Spain. It is part of the Catalan Pre-Coastal Range. The main peaks are Sant Jeroni (1,236 m), Montgros (1,120 1120) m And miranda de Les (agulles 903). m The Caribbean island of Montserrat was named by Christopher Columbus after the mountain. It is well known as the site of the Benedictine abbey, Santa Maria de Montserrat, which hosts the Virgin of Montserrat sanctuary and which is identified by some with the location of the Holy Grail in Arthurian myth.
Montserrat (/mɒntsəˈraet/) mɒntsəˈræt is A caribbean—island specifically in The Leeward, islands which is part of the chain known as The Lesser, antilles in The British West. Indies it is A British Overseas. territory The island of Montserrat is approximately 480 km (300 mi) east-southeast of Puerto Rico and 48 km (30 mi) southwest of Antigua. It comprises 104 km 2 (40 sq mi) and is gradually increasing owing to the buildup of volcanic deposits on the southeast coast.
The given Montserrat location map shows that Montserrat is located in the Caribbean Sea. Montserrat map also shows that Montserrat is located in the premises of Leeward Islands, which is more popularly known as Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea. Montserrat is situated roughly 475 km south-east of Puerto Rico and about 48 km south-west of Antigua. The island has an active volcano i.e. Montserrat Volcano. Surprisingly, Montserrat is nicknamed the Emerald Isle of the Caribbean because both have similarity to coastal Ireland and for the Irish descent of its inhabitants. Montserrat is overseas territory of UK; however, it has local government centered at Brades.
The island of Montserrat has two capitals. Plymouth is the de jure capital of the island; it is located in the Leeward Island chain of the Lesser Antilles, West Indies. Montserrat is an overseas territory of the United Kingdom located in the Leeward Islands. The territory resembles coastal Ireland and hence is nicknamed the Emerald Isle of the Caribbean.. Also, it has a large number of inhabitants who are of the Irish ancestry