By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals. The average density is 3.0 gm/cm 3. Basalt is one of the most common rock types in the world. Basalt is the rock most typical of large igneous provinces. The largest occurrences of basalt are in the ocean floor that is almost completely made up by basalt.
This force can be added to soil, where it has eroded away, by spreading ground-up paramagnetic rock (basalt, granite, etc.) into the soil. Source Link Pioneer Valley BrixBlend Basalt has been accepted by Bay State Organics and is Certifiable for Organic practice using NOPS criteria: 100% natural stone material. 
Weathering (breaking down rock) and erosion (transporting rock material) at or near the earth's surface breaks down rocks into small and smaller pieces. These smaller pieces of rock (such as sand, silt, or mud) can be deposited as sediments that, after hardening, or lithifying, become sedimentary rocks. On Earth's surface, wind and water can break rock into pieces (weathering!). They can also carry rock pieces to another place (erosion)!. Usually, the rock pieces, called sediments, drop from the wind or water to make a layer. The layer can be buried under other layers of sediment
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.
The third basalt-forming environment is a continental environment where a mantle plume or hotspot delivers enormous amounts of basaltic lava through the continental crust and up to Earth's surface. These eruptions can be from either vents or fissures. They have produced the largest basalt flows on the continents. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.
Erosion of the coastline affects the way we use and manage the coast. On this stretch of coast between Portstewart and Portrush we can see the headlands, bays and beaches created by the relentless attack of the waves. The rock along this stretch of coast is basalt. It is a hard igneous rock and is less prone to erosion. However, in time these too will be worn away. These 8 houses are sitting on a headland, in time the sea will erode the cliff and the houses will collapse. 
Weathering is the wearing away of rocks. Erosion is the movement of the broken pieces away from the site of weathering. Basalt columns. For example, a basalt cliff may be weathered by freeze-thaw, a type of physical weathering. This means that pieces of the cliff may break away. Erosion happens when these pieces of rock fall away down the cliff. In the photograph you can see a basalt cliff
No. All rocks can become other rocks by the processes of erosion  and metamorphism.    An igneous rock may become eroded into its constituent mineral  grains such as … quartz and feldspar, which are transported by wind  and water, eventually settling to form a sedimentary rock. These crystals can be as large as a person to  microscopic in size. In fact, some igneous rocks have no crystals  at all and are called glass. What determines grain size is the  amount of time a rock has to cool before it solidifies.