The distance from the center of a non-rotating black hole to the event horizon is known as the Schwarzschild radius. This is like taking a ruler and measuring the distance from the dark well's edge to its center. The Schwarzschild radius depends only on the mass of the object that creates the black hole. The Event Horizon & Schwarzschild Radius. Surrounding the black hole is something called the event horizon, the boundary between the black hole and the rest of the universe where the escape velocity is just equal to the speed of light. Nothing that occurs within the event horizon is visible to us.
An example of an object where the mass is within its Schwarzschild radius is a black hole. Once a stellar remnant collapses to or below this radius, light cannot escape and the object is no longer directly visible, thereby forming a black hole. The Schwarzschild radius of an object is proportional to the mass. Accordingly, the Sun has a Schwarzschild radius of approximately 3.0 km (1.9 mi), whereas Earth 's is only about 9.0 mm. The observable universe 's mass has a Schwarzschild radius of approximately 13.7 billion light years
The Schwarzschild radius is equal to 2Gm / c^2, where G is the gravitational constant, m is the mass of the object and c the speed of light constant. add a comment. Answer by gmedich (93). The Schwarzchild radius is given by the equation 2GM/c squared. Since G, the gravitational parameter and c, the speed of light in a vacuum are constant, the only variable for the radius is the mass of the black hole: the more mass, the larger the raduis. add a comment. +1 vote!
The distance from the center of a non-rotating black hole to the event horizon is known as the Schwarzschild radius. The Schwarzschild radius depends only on the mass of the object, meaning the greater the mass, the larger the Schwarzschild radius. Just as importantly, you need to understand that at a far enough distance away from the black hole, its gravity is no greater than an object that has a similar mass. The Event Horizon & Schwarzschild Radius. Surrounding the black hole is something called the event horizon, the boundary between the black hole and the rest of the universe where the escape velocity is just equal to the speed of light. Nothing that occurs within the event horizon is visible to us.
The Schwarzschild Black Hole. The gravitational field of a Schwarzschild black hole depends on only one constant: a mass. Around this central mass, which is assumed to exist at a single point in space, the gravitational field is isotropic, so it varies only with the distance from the central mass. For a solar mass black hole, the event horizon has a radius of only 3 km. For a one billion solar mass black hole, which is about the maximum mass expected for a black hole at the center of a galaxy, the radius is 20 AU, or about the distance of Uranus from the Sun.
1 The Schwarzschild radius (r s) represents the ability of mass to cause curvature in space and time. 2  The standard gravitational parameter (μ) represents the ability of a massive body to exert Newtonian gravitational forces on other bodies. 3  Inertial mass (m) represents the Newtonian response of mass to forces. The Schwarzschild radius of an object is proportional to the mass. Accordingly, the Sun has a Schwarzschild radius of approximately 3.0 km (1.9 mi), whereas Earth 's is only about 9.0 mm. The observable universe 's mass has a Schwarzschild radius of approximately 13.7 billion light year
An electrically neutral, non-rotating black hole, known as a Schwarzschild black hole, was what we covered in this lesson with respect to the event horizon, Schwarzschild radius, and its implications on gravitational attraction. The Event Horizon & Schwarzschild Radius. Surrounding the black hole is something called the event horizon, the boundary between the black hole and the rest of the universe where the escape velocity is just equal to the speed of light. Nothing that occurs within the event horizon is visible to us.
The Schwarzschild radius (sometimes historically referred to as the gravitational radius) is the radius of a sphere such that, if all the mass of an object were to be compressed within that sphere, the escape velocity from the surface of the sphere would equal the speed of light. The Schwarzschild radius of an object is proportional to the mass. Accordingly, the Sun has a Schwarzschild radius of approximately 3.0 km (1.9 mi), whereas Earth 's is only about 9.0 mm. The observable universe 's mass has a Schwarzschild radius of approximately 13.7 billion light years