The phone numbers listed here can be called for Unemployment Insurance (UI) services. There are separate phone numbers for English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, and Vietnamese speaking customers. A separate phone number is also available for customers who are deaf or hard of hearing. If you are calling to file a claim, you must call by Friday to receive credit for the week. 
A prepaid mobile phone (also commonly referred to as pay-as-you-go, pay-as-you-talk, pay and go, or prepaid wireless) is a mobile phone for which credit is purchased in advance of service use. 
Each telephone line has an identifying telephone number. To initiate a telephone call the user enters the destination telephone's number into a dial or numeric keypad on the phone. Graphic symbols used to designate telephone service or phone-related information in print, signage, and other media include ℡ (U+ 2121), Until approximately the 1970s most telephones used a rotary dial, which was superseded by the modern DTMF push-button dial, first introduced to the public by AT&T in 1963. The receiver and transmitter are usually built into a handset which is held up to the ear and mouth during conversation.
dial phone, dial telephone-a telephone with a dial for registering the number to be called. electronic equipment-equipment that involves the controlled conduction of electrons (especially in a gas or vacuum or semiconductor). The first time she heard that form of salute used at the telephone she was surprised, and not pleased; but I told her I had given order for it: that henceforth and forever the tele-phone must always be invoked with that reverent for-mality, in perpetual honor and remembrance of my lost friend and her small namesake.
A landline telephone is connected by a pair of wires to the telephone network, while a mobile phone, such as a cellular phone (which first became commercially available in the early 1980s) is portable and communicates with the telephone network by radio transmissions. Until approximately the 1970s most telephones used a rotary dial, which was superseded by the modern DTMF push-button dial, first introduced to the public by AT&T in 1963. The receiver and transmitter are usually built into a handset which is held up to the ear and mouth during conversation.
The dial may be located either on the handset, or on a base unit to which the handset is connected. The transmitter converts the sound waves to electrical signals which are sent through the telephone network to the receiving phone. Until approximately the 1970s most telephones used a rotary dial, which was superseded by the modern DTMF push-button dial, first introduced to the public by AT&T in 1963. The receiver and transmitter are usually built into a handset which is held up to the ear and mouth during conversation.
If you're shopping for a mobile phone, you're in for a lot of acronyms. Here's what you need to know about two basic, yet important, terms. Two basic technologies in mobile phones, CDMA and GSM represent a gap you can't cross. They're the reason you can't use many AT&T phones on Verizon's network and vice versa. What CDMA vs. GSM Means to You For call quality, the technology you use is much less important than the way your carrier has built its network. There are good and bad CDMA and GSM networks, but there are key differences between the technologies. Here's what you, as a consumer, need to know.
A smartphone is considered to be the combination of the traditional PDA and cellular phone, with a bigger focus on the cellular phone part. These handheld devices integrates mobile phone capabilities with the more common features of a handheld computer or PDA. Smartphones allow users to store information, e-mail, install programs, along with using a mobile phone in one device.
Several such masts can be located on the same tower. When you make a call on a cell phone, the signal travels through the air to the nearest mast or tower, and is then relayed to a switching network and finally on to the handset of the person you are calling via the mast closest to them. It is all about the technology used to transmit your calls, rather than what the handset itself can or cannot do. As long as a phone can transmit a signal to a cellular network, it is a cell phone. The term Cell Phone is interchangeable with the terms Cellular Phone and Mobile Phone.