Colles fractures are very common extra-articular fractures of the distal radius that occur as the result of a fall onto an outstretched hand. They consist of a fracture of the distal radial metaphyseal region with dorsal angulation and impaction, but without involvement of the articular surface. 
A Colles fracture occurs when the broken end of the radius tilts upward.This illustration shows some of the types of distal radius fractures.Reproduced with permission from JF Sarwark, ed: Essentials of Musculoskeletal Care, ed 4. Rosemont, IL, American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, 2010. The end toward the wrist is called the distal end. A fracture of the distal radius occurs when the area of the radius near the wrist breaks.Distal radius fractures are very common. In fact, the radius is the most commonly broken bone in the arm.
A distal radius fracture almost always occurs about 1 inch from the end of the bone. The break can occur in many different ways, however. One of the most common distal radius fractures is a Colles fracture, in which the broken fragment of the radius tilts upward. This fracture was first described in 1814 by an Irish surgeon and anatomist, Abraham Colles -- hence the name Colles fracture. A Colles fracture occurs when the broken end of the radius tilts upward. Other ways the distal radius can break include: 1  Intra-articular fracture. 2  A fracture that extends into the wrist joint. ( 3 Articular means joint.). 4  Extra-articular fracture. 5  A fracture that does not extend into the joint is called an extra-articular fracture. 6  Open fractur
A Colles' fracture, is a fracture of the distal radius in the forearm with dorsal (posterior) and radial displacement of the wrist and hand. The fracture is sometimes referred to as a  dinner fork  or  bayonet  deformity due to the shape of the resultant forearm. Colles' fractures are often seen in people with osteoporosis
The term of Colles fracture is classically used to describe a fracture at the distal end of the radius, at its cortico-cancellous junction. The fracture is sometimes referred to as a  dinner fork  or  bayonet  deformity due to the shape of the resultant forearm.
A Colles'’ fracture, or a distal radius fracture of the wrist, often occurs when attempting to “catch yourself” during a fall and landing on the palm of the hand. 
A Colles’ wrist fracture occurs when the radius bone in your forearm breaks. It’s also known as a distal radius fracture, transverse wrist fracture, or a dinner-fork deformity of the wrist. Your radius is the larger of the two main bones in your forearm. The distal part of the radius is the end near your wrist. When you have a Colles’ wrist fracture, the distal end breaks and can cause your wrist to bend in an abnormal way.
A. A Colles' fracture -- or distal radius fracture -- is often called a ''broken wrist.'' Technically, it's a break in the larger of the two bones in your forearm. The bone breaks on the lower end, close to where it connects to the bones of the hand on the thumb side of the wrist. In this article. A Colles' fracture -- or distal radius fracture -- is often called a ''broken wrist.'' Technically, it's a break in the larger of the two bones in your forearm.
The end toward the wrist is called the distal end. A fracture of the distal radius occurs when the area of the radius near the wrist breaks. Distal radius fractures are very common. In fact, the radius is the most commonly broken bone in the arm. The break can occur in many different ways, however. One of the most common distal radius fractures is a Colles fracture, in which the broken fragment of the radius tilts upward. This fracture was first described in 1814 by an Irish surgeon and anatomist, Abraham Colles -- hence the name Colles fracture.