Since the founding of the Marine Corps at Philadelphia's Tun Tavern in 1775, Marines have adapted to overcome the ever-evolving threats facing our nation and world. Journey into the history and legacy of the nation's most revered expeditionary force. 
In February 1776, the Continental Marines embarked on their maiden expedition. The Continental Marines were disbanded at the end of the war, along with the Continental Navy. In preparation for the Quasi-War with France, Congress created the United States Navy and the Marine Corps. Despite the gap between the disbanding of the Continental Marines and the establishment of the United States Marine Corps, Marines worldwide celebrate 10 November 1775 as the official birthday. This is traditional in Marine units and is similar to the practice of the British and Netherlands Royal Marines.
The United States Marine Corps (USMC) is a branch of the United States Armed Forces responsible for providing power projection from the sea, using the mobility of the U.S. Navy to rapidly deliver combined-arms task forces. The Marine Corps has been a component of the U.S. Department of the Navy since 1834, working closely with naval forces for training, transportation, and logistics.
Captain Samuel Nicholas formed two battalions of Continental Marines on 10 November 1775 in Philadelphia as naval infantry. The United States Marine Corps traces its institutional roots to the Continental Marines of the American Revolutionary War. By December 1775, five companies of about 300 Marines were raised. While armed, they were not equipped with uniforms. However, they headed not North as originally planned, but South, for the Caribbean. The five companies joined Commodore Esek Hopkins of the Continental Navy's first squadron on its first cruise.
Semper Fi. Today is the 239th anniversary of the founding in Philadelphia of the U.S. Marines Corps. Tradition holds that the corps' birthplace was the Tun Tavern, then located at Water Street and Tun Alley, where the first marines enlisted. The tavern burned down in 1781. 
The United States Marine Corps traces its institutional roots to the Continental Marines of the American Revolutionary War, formed by Captain Samuel Nicholas at Tun Tavern in Philadelphia, by a resolution of the Second Continental Congress on 10 November 1775, to raise 2 battalions of Marines. The United States Marine Corps are one of the five branches of the military. The Marine Corps was established in November 10, 1775 in Tun's Tavern, Pennsylvania. The Marine Co … rps is the only branch that is a Land, Sea, and Air service. The Marine Corp is a department of the United States Navy. The core values are honor, courage, and commitment
The U.S. Marine Corps is one of the four branches in the U.S. Department of Defense as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It is one of the seven uniformed services of the United States. The Marine Corps has been a component of the U.S. Department of the Navy since 1834, working closely with naval forces for training, transportation, and logistics.
US Marine Corps founded. The history of the United States Marine Corps begins with the founding of the Continental Marines in 1775 to conduct ship-to-ship fighting, provide shipboard security and assist in landing forces. By December 1775, five companies of about 300 Marines were raised. While armed, they were not equipped with uniforms. However, they headed not North as originally planned, but South, for the Caribbean. The five companies joined Commodore Esek Hopkins of the Continental Navy's first squadron on its first cruise.
Created in 1775, the Marine Corps has been a component of the United States Department of the Navy since 1834, working closely with naval forces for training, transportation, and logistics. Captain Samuel Nicholas formed two battalions of Continental Marines on 10 November 1775, in Philadelphia as naval infantry. The United States Marine Corps (USMC) is a branch of the United States Armed Forces responsible for providing power projection from the sea, using the mobility of the United States Navy to rapidly deliver combined-arms task forces. It is one of seven uniformed services of the United States.