In the final part, “The Vessel,” Q learns a third meaning of “paper towns,” this weird cartographic phenomena wherein mapmakers will insert fake places (called copyright traps or paper towns) onto their maps to make sure no one is copying their maps.
A paper town is a town created by mapmakers to keep from copyright infringement. Agloe was the main paper town in the book. Agloe was put on a map, and people started looking for it, so they built a little general store for it. This story is part of the Paper Towns store.
It seems like it's another word for paper towns, or that paper towns is some... show more I'm reading Paper Towns, by John Green, and he mentions pseudovisions quite a few times, but I'm not sure what it means. I've looked online, and I can't find the definition anywhere. It seems like it's another word for paper towns, or that paper towns is some metaphor for pseudovisions, but I'm not so sure. Here are some examples of where it's written: A pseudovision! You will go to the pseudovisions and you will never come back..
“Paper Towns” by John Green is a novel about a high schooler following clues to track down the girl he’s in love with.
In the author’s note, John writes about how paper towns were not real places, but names of places on maps, “…created to protect against copyright infringement,” (p. 307).
Paper Towns is the third young adult novel written by John Green. It was published on October 16, 2008 by Dutton Books. The novel explores the coming of age and search of the protagonist, Quentin Q Jacobsen, for Margo Roth Spiegelman, his neighbor and childhood love interest.
“What a treacherous thing to believe that a person is more than a person.”. ― John Green, Paper Towns. Like. “Here's what's not beautiful about it: from here, you can't see the rust or the cracked paint or whatever, but you can tell what the place really is.
A paper town is a fake town created by map makers created to protect their copyright, says John Green. Map makers put fake streets, fake towns, and fake bridges in their maps, so if they see those same fake places on someone else's map, they'll know that they've been robbed, he explains.