Put chicken breasts in an oven-safe pan, add ... other seasonings of your choice. Bake in a 350 F oven for 30 minutes or until chicken is cooked through. 3. OVEN BAKED BBQ CHICKEN BREASTS (FROZEN). Preheat oven to 375 F. Combine ... and place frozen chicken breasts in pan. 
1 Preheat the broiler, then insert the pan so the chicken breasts are 4 to 5 inches from the heat. 2  Broil 4- to 5-ounce boneless, skinless chicken breasts 12 to 15 minutes, turning over about halfway through the cooking time and brushing with sauce or seasoning if desired. 1 Broil 4- to 5-ounce boneless, skinless chicken breasts 12 to 15 minutes, turning over about halfway through the cooking time and brushing with sauce or seasoning if desired. 2  Remove chicken when it reaches 170 degrees F and is no longer pink.
The chicken breasts should be completely covered with the parchment. Bake for 30 to 40 minutes: Transfer the chicken to the oven and bake for 30 to 40 minutes, until the chicken is completely opaque all the way through and registers 165°F on an instant-read thermometer. Serve: Serve the chicken immediately, or let it cool and refrigerate for up to a week. 
Prepare a marinade the day before you plan to bake your chicken breasts or thighs. The marinating process adds flavor and moisture to baked chicken. 1  Place 2 tbsp. ( 2 26 ml) of balsamic or red wine vinegar in a resealable plastic bag. 3  Add 2 to 3 tsp. ( 4 1.4 to 2.1 g) of dried herbs. 
Roasting Chicken Breasts. Grease a shallow baking pan and place chicken breasts in a single layer. Add 1/4 cup of water to help prevent the breasts from drying out. Roast in a 350-degree oven for 20 to 30 minutes or until completely cooked. Fully cooked chicken will seep clear liquid when pierced with a fork or knife.
Toss the chicken with the baking sauce. Spread the chicken in the baking dish. No need to grease the dish. Just lay the chicken inside. Bake for 20 minutes or until the chicken has an internal temperature of 165°F. Boneless, skinless thighs cook quickly. Check after 20 minutes, and if they are not quite up to temperature, put back in the oven and continue cooking and checking the temperature in 5-minute increments. 
4. Place the chicken breast in a baking dish and cover with aluminum foil. 5. Bake for approximately 30-40 minutes or until the internal temperature is 160 degrees, depending on how hot and even your oven cooks will determine the amount of time it takes. 6. 
Set the thermometer for 155 degrees and bake until the Thermometer signals you. Remove the Breasts and loosly cover the baking dish with Foil. Let the Breasts rest 10-15 min. The foil will keep it hot and the chicken breasts will continue to cook until the internal temp reaches 165 degrees. This is the safe temp to cook chicken. Do not cook in the oven to 165. By the time you eat it, well, you might as well take off your shoe and eat it.
I test at the shorter cooking time with the thermometer. Poaching. To poach boneless, skinless chicken breasts, place them in a large skillet and add 1-2 cups of water or chicken broth. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover, and cook for 9-14 minutes until chicken reaches 160 degrees F. about 15 minutes. You can also poach in the oven
Bake for a short time at a high temperature. Baking for 30 minutes at 350 degrees will yield dry meat. But baking for just 20 minutes at 450 degrees will result in delightfully juicy baked chicken breast, every time. 1 Bake, uncovered, for 10 minutes, flip to the other side, lightly spray/brush again and bake for 8-10 more minutes, or until juices run clear when pierced with a fork (it's fine to make a small slit in the thickest part and see if it's done!). 2  Transfer the baked chicken breasts to a platter.