The clinical history of patients with urogenital or extragenital infections caused by Mycoplasma or Ureaplasma species is syndrome-specific, not organism-specific, and, as in the case of M pneumoniae respiratory tract infection, no distinguishing features indicate the microbiologic etiology of these conditions. The Ureaplasma genus now is subdivided into 2 species: U urealyticum and U parvum. For clinical purposes, separating infections caused by the different 2 species is not possible or necessary. In both the clinical setting and in the diagnostic laboratory, they are considered Ureaplasma species.
Occasionally, testing may be used to determine if Mycoplasma hominis, Mycoplasma genitalium, or Ureaplasma urealyticum is the cause of an infection of the genital or urinary tract. Mycoplasma testing is primarily used to help determine if Mycoplasma pneumoniae is the cause of a respiratory tract infection. It may also be used to help diagnose a systemic infection that is thought to be due to mycoplasma.
Ureaplasma is a type of bacteria in the family of bacteria known as Mycoplasma. Mycoplasma organisms, when they infect humans, usually infect the respiratory or urogenital tracts. As the name implies, ureaplasma are generally found in the urogenital tract and are the cause of some urinary tract infections. Ureaplasma infection is associated with non-gonococcal, non-chlamydial urethritis (inflammation of the urethra) in young men. The organism has also been found in 40-80% of asymptomatic sexually active young women. That is, they are sometimes present even in the absence of disease
Consider a Mycoplasma or Ureaplasma infection when persons with hypogammaglobulinemia present with septic arthritis, chronic pulmonary infection, and any other inflammatory condition or infection that does not respond to antimicrobial treatment that is not likely to be effective against these organisms. The Ureaplasma genus now is subdivided into 2 species: U urealyticum and U parvum. For clinical purposes, separating infections caused by the different 2 species is not possible or necessary. In both the clinical setting and in the diagnostic laboratory, they are considered Ureaplasma species.
Both Mycoplasma and Ureaplasma species can cause invasive disease of the joints and respiratory tract with bacteremic dissemination, particularly in persons with antibody deficiencies, indicating the importance of the humoral immune system in host defense against these organisms. Experimental infection studies using nonhuman primate models have shown that Ureaplasma in amniotic fluid causes up-regulation of proinflammatory cytokines, leukocytes, and prostaglandins, potentially contributing to premature delivery and fetal lung injury.
Considering taking medication to treat Ureaplasma Urealyticum Infections? Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Ureaplasma Urealyticum Infections. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below.
Nongonococcal urethritis is the most common sexually transmitted infection. Ureaplasma species and M genitalium may account for a significant portion of cases that are not due to chlamydiae. M genitalium is much less likely to be present in the urogenital tract of asymptomatic persons. Experimental infection studies using nonhuman primate models have shown that Ureaplasma in amniotic fluid causes up-regulation of proinflammatory cytokines, leukocytes, and prostaglandins, potentially contributing to premature delivery and fetal lung injury.
Whether Ureaplasma infection causes involuntary infertility remains speculative. Ureaplasma species can cause placental inflammation and may invade the amniotic sac early, causing persistent infection and adverse pregnancy outcomes, including premature birth. Experimental infection studies using nonhuman primate models have shown that Ureaplasma in amniotic fluid causes up-regulation of proinflammatory cytokines, leukocytes, and prostaglandins, potentially contributing to premature delivery and fetal lung injury.