Operational definition. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An operational definition is a result of the process of operationalization and is used to define something (e.g. a variable, term, or object) in terms of a process (or set of validation tests) needed to determine its existence, duration, and quantity. Vandervert (1980/1988) described in scientific detail a simple, every day illustration of an operational definition in terms of making a cake (i.e., its recipe is an operational definition used in a specialized laboratory known as the household kitchen).
Operational Definitions. An operational definition is a detailed specification of how one would go about measuring a given variable. Operational definitions can range from very simple and straightforward to quite complex, depending on the nature of the variable and the needs of the researcher. Examples of Operational Definitions. The best way to illustrate the process of developing operational definitions for variables is to identify several theoretical constructs and develop multiple operational definitions of each. This not only illustrates how the process is done, but also shows that most constructs can be measured in more than one way
An operational definition is critical for success in writing IEP goals, especially behavioral goals. It is also vital to define a target behavior for both a Functional Behavior Analysis (FBA) and a Behavior Intervention Program (BIP) . An operational definition describes the behavior in terms of what you see. It is an explicit definition that two or more disinterested observers would be able to identify. Academic goals should also be operationally defined: you define the academic behavior the child should exhibit. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An operational definition is a very specific definition used in an experiment, to ensure that all of the researchers collecting data are watching for the same thing. Say you are doing an experiment on altruism where you pretend to trip down some stairs or something and to see if people help you. 
The procedures included in definitions should be repeatable by anyone or at least by peers. An example of operational definition of the term weight of an object, operationalized to a degree, would be the following: weight is the numbers that appear when that object is placed on a weighing scale . Vandervert (1980/1988) described in scientific detail a simple, every day illustration of an operational definition in terms of making a cake (i.e., its recipe is an operational definition used in a specialized laboratory known as the household kitchen).
1. None can fully define a phenomena. 2. One can use any operational definitions but should use operational definitions similar to those in use and which are consistent with historical reference avoids initial struggle. 3. What about brave = leaving the house in the morning without a cup of coffee. punishment = an annoying state of affairs. Each term mirrors and supports the other. D. Factual/Conceptual vs. Operational Definitions. 1. A Factual/Conceptual definition is a dictionary-type that uses another term or set of terms synonymous with term being defined.
An operational definition, when applied to data collection, is a clear, concise detailed definition of a measure. The need for operational definitions is fundamental when collecting all types of data. 1 It is important that the operational definition is documented and standardized. 2  Definitions should be included in training materials and job procedure sheets. 3  The results of steps 1 through 4 should be included in one document. 4  The operational definition and the appropriate standards should be kept at the work station.
Use conceptual variables to help define variables operationally. The conceptual definition tells you where to look and what KINDS of things to look for. Once you are looking at the right KINDS of things, the operational definition is a statement of exactly what range of EXAMPLES you see. Conceptual definitions.