1 Bis is used in chemical nomenclature sometimes instead of the prefix di-, such as in fructose 1,6-bisphosphate. 2  Bis (Bisulfite) or Bisulfite sequencing in Genomics, to differentiate between methylated and non-methylated cytosine in the Genome (Epigenetic). An example in recent modern usage is the ITU-T modem standard from the late 20th century, V.32bis. Bis can also refer to: 1  Bis (band) , a Scottish Indie pop band. 2  Bis (magazine) , a Japanese high-teens' magazine published by Kobunsha.
bis-. 1. Prefix signifying two or twice. 2. chemistry Used to denote the presence of two identical but separated complex groups in one molecule. bis-. 1. Prefix signifying two or twice. 2. chemistry used to denote the presence of two identical but separated complex groups in one molecule. Compare: bi- , di-. [L.].
With regard to its banking activities, the customers of the BIS are central banks and international organisations. As a bank, the BIS does not accept deposits from, or provide financial services to, private individuals or corporate entities. The head office is in Basel, Switzerland and there are two representative offices: in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China and in Mexico City.
About BIS. Established on 17 May 1930, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) is the world's oldest international financial organisation. The BIS has 60 member central banks, representing countries from around the world that together make up about 95% of world GDP. The head office is in Basel, Switzerland and there are two representative offices: in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China and in Mexico City.
bis-. 1. Prefix signifying two or twice. 2. chemistry used to denote the presence of two identical but separated complex groups in one molecule. Compare: bi- , di- . bis-. 1. Prefix signifying two or twice. 2. chemistry used to denote the presence of two identical but separated complex groups in one molecule. Compare: bi- , di-. [L.].
The mission of the BIS is to serve central banks in their pursuit of monetary and financial stability, to foster international cooperation in those areas and to act as a bank for central banks. The head office is in Basel, Switzerland and there are two representative offices: in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China and in Mexico City.
The BIS was established on May 17, 1930, by an intergovernmental agreement by Germany, Belgium, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Japan, the United States and Switzerland. The BIS was originally intended to facilitate reparations imposed on Germany by the Treaty of Versailles after World War I. 
BlackBerry Internet Service (BIS) is an email and synchronization service provided by RIM for BlackBerry users. BIS was created for BlackBerry users without an enterprise email account on a BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES). BIS allows you to retrieve email from multiple POP3, IMAP, and Outlook Web App (OWA) on your BlackBerry, and synchronize your contacts, calendar, and deleted items from some email providers.
The word (also used as a prefix or suffix) bis, applied to some modem protocol standards, is Old Latin for repeat (akin to Old High German twice). When a protocol ends with bis, it means that it's the second version of that protocol. Similarly, ter is from Old Latin meaning three times.. The suffix terbo in the V.xx modem protocol is an invented word based on the Old Latin ter and the word turbo (Latin for whirling top or whirlwind) meaning speed.. V.32terbo is the third version developed of the V.32 modem protocol..
Bis is a prefix or suffix designating the second instance of a thing, thus preceding ter. An example in recent modern usage is the ITU-T modem standard from the late 20th century, V.32bis. Bis can also refer to: 1  Bis (band) , a Scottish Indie pop band. 2  Bis (magazine) , a Japanese high-teens' magazine published by Kobunsha.