Shallots are used in many of the same dishes where garlic and onions could be used, and do not cause as harsh of breath odors as either onions or garlic. Australians call green onions shallots, but they are not the same as green onions. Shallots are also not the same as pickling onions. Some varieties are more elongated than others, such as the banana shallot. They tend to have a faster cooking time than onions, but they usually do not have as long of a storage life. 
Of the fresh onions what are called shallots in NSW are a straight stemmed plant that comes in bunches. They are called Eschallots in Victoria and some European countries. Shallots have a mild flavour and can be used raw or briefly sauteed. Sautéed the white part has the more oniony flavour but the entire plant can be. used In NSW and the ACT shallots refer to an immature onion picked before the bulb has started to form. Sold in bunches they have white bottoms extending up to green tops. Confusingly what are called shallots in NSW are called spring onions in some other states. And what are called eschallots in NSW are called shallots in some other states. They are a really a more immature form of what is called a spring onion in NSW.
Whole shallot plant, consist of roots, bulbs, leaves, stalks, and flowers. Like garlic, shallots are formed in clusters of offsets with a head composed of multiple cloves. The skin colour of shallots can vary from golden brown to gray to rose red, and their off-white flesh is usually tinged with green or magenta. As a species of Allium, shallots taste somewhat like a common onion, but have a milder flavor. Like onions and garlic, when sliced, raw shallots release substances that irritate the human eye, resulting in production of tears. Shallots appear to contain more flavonoids and phenols than other members of the onion genus.
Of the fresh onions what are called shallots in NSW are a straight stemmed plant that comes in bunches. They are called Eschallots in Victoria and some European countries. Shallots have a mild flavour and can be used raw or briefly sauteed. sautéed In NSW and the ACT shallots refer to an immature onion picked before the bulb has started to form. Sold in bunches they have white bottoms extending up to green tops. Confusingly what are called shallots in NSW are called spring onions in some other states. And what are called eschallots in NSW are called shallots in some other states. They are a really a more immature form of what is called a spring onion in NSW.
They are called Eschallots in Victoria and some European countries. Shallots have a mild flavour and can be used raw or briefly sauteed. Sautéed the white part has the more oniony flavour but the entire plant can be. Used what are called spring onions In australia are small white bulbs with a green. stem In NSW and the ACT shallots refer to an immature onion picked before the bulb has started to form. Sold in bunches they have white bottoms extending up to green tops. Confusingly what are called shallots in NSW are called spring onions in some other states. And what are called eschallots in NSW are called shallots in some other states. They are a really a more immature form of what is called a spring onion in NSW.
The Japanese use a similar onion called a bunching onion or Welsh onion which can also be called shallots. Just to confuse you, the French eschallot with its cluster of small bulbs is also referred to as a shallot. In the USA we are known as scallions as well as bunching, green and spring onions.
Eschallots. Called shallots in many Australian states as well as French shallots. They are a small onion which grows in clusters with a papery golden/brown skin. Milder than onions they are used in French and Asian cooking. They are an important ingredient in many French sauce
Shallots are grown from small bulbs kept from the main plant. Once they are established, you can keep your supply going indefinitely by saving a few bulblets each year. A type of small mild multiplying onion, popular in French cooking. Tree onions or 'walking onions' produce bulbs at the top of the stem. Shallots are not spring onions and are quite different to the green bunching Eschallots (Allium fistulosum) which, just to confuse us, are also called shallots in Eastern Australia. They are more like garlic in their growth as they form a clump of bulbs at the base of the stem. 
In Cambodian (Khmer), shallots are called katem kror hom, where katem or ktem is a species of onion, and kror hom or hom meaning red, describes their colour. The name shallot is also used for the Persian shallot (A. stipitatum) , from the Zagros Mountains in Iran and Iraq. As a species of Allium, shallots taste somewhat like a common onion, but have a milder flavor. Like onions and garlic, when sliced, raw shallots release substances that irritate the human eye, resulting in production of tears. Shallots appear to contain more flavonoids and phenols than other members of the onion genus.