The Post is the basic unit of the Legion and usually represents a small geographic area such as a single town or part of a county. There are roughly 14,900 posts in the United States. The Post is used for formal business such as meetings and a coordination point for community service projects. The first post of the American Legion, General John Joseph Pershing Post Number 1 in Washington, D.C., was organized on March 7, 1919, and obtained the first charter issued to any post of the Legion on May 19, 1919.
American Legion Boys State is among the most respected educational programs of government instruction for high school students. Each participant becomes a part of the operation of his local, county and state government. Boys State has been a program of The American Legion since 1935. At American Legion Boys State, participants are exposed to the rights and privileges, the duties and the responsibilities of a franchised citizen.
SAL members are encouraged to use and support the Legion's ceremony for disposal of unserviceable flags on Flag Day. Sons of The American Legion members include males of all ages whose parents or grandparents served in the U.S. military and were eligible for American Legion membership. 1  Giving a blind veteran hope, shelter. 2  Put attending a national convention on your agenda. 3  Sons participate in flag retirement ceremonies. 
Eligibility for American Legion membership is limited to those honorably discharged veterans and current personnel of the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard or Air Force who served at least one day of active duty during any of the following periods: The first post of the American Legion, General John Joseph Pershing Post Number 1 in Washington, D.C., was organized on March 7, 1919, and obtained the first charter issued to any post of the Legion on May 19, 1919.
The American Legion is fighting every element that threatens our democratic government — Soviets, anarchists, IWW, revolutionary socialists and every other red.... Do not forget that the Fascisti are to Italy what the American Legion is to the United States. The first post of the American Legion, General John Joseph Pershing Post Number 1 in Washington, D.C., was organized on March 7, 1919, and obtained the first charter issued to any post of the Legion on May 19, 1919.
1 American Legion Graduate of the Year: A Major League Baseball player, who is an American Legion Baseball alumnus, is honored each year with the American Legion Graduate of the Year award. 2  The award recognizes character, leadership, playing abilities and community service.. The American Legion Department of South Dakota established the program in 1925 at Milbank, South Dakota.
The American Legion, Inc. is a federally chartered corporation formed in Paris on March 16, 1919 by veterans of the American Expeditionary Forces (A. E. F.) . The first post of the American Legion, General John Joseph Pershing Post Number 1 in Washington, D.C., was organized on March 7, 1919, and obtained the first charter issued to any post of the Legion on May 19, 1919.
The American Legion is an organization chartered by the U.S. Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code. It was established originally for veterans of World War I who returned from Europe in 1919. The initial goal of the organization was to fight for proper benefits of foreign wars. The American Legion has a strong vested interest in politics and spends millions of dollars each year in efforts to lobby for issues relevant to the organization. Most of these have to do with the benefits and pensions for veterans and military families.
National Commander Dale Barnett addresses Legion leadership about veterans walks, VA issues and membership. Walk for Veterans event raises $30,913 for OCW. Nearly 300 veterans, their families and community members participated alongside National Commander Dale Barnett in the 5k walk/run in Lawrence, Ind. Commander: 'It's the message that matters'. American Legion National Commander Dale Barnett leads a Walk for Veterans event with Legion family members in Hartford, Conn. Focusing on service to veterans, servicemembers and communities, The American Legion currently has about 2.4 million members in 14,000 posts worldwide.
American Legion Baseball is a variety of amateur baseball played by teenage boys in 50 states in the USA. More than five thousand teams participate each year. The American Legion Department of South Dakota established the program in 1925 at Milbank, South Dakota.