The muscle cell is a muscle fiber. The term muscle cell and muscle fiber are synonymous. A myofibril is a longitudinal bundle of myofilaments within a muscle cell. Myocardium is the muscular layer of the heart. Thus, the myocardium is composed of cardiac muscle. 
Another name for a skeletal muscle cell is? a. muscle fiber b. fascicle c. aponeurosis d. fascia 2. which is not true of the myelin sheath? a. it's associated with white fibers in the brain b. it's important for nerve impulse conduction c. it covers cell bodies in... show more 1. 
The scientific name for a muscle cell is a myocyte. Myocytes are  also sometimes called muscle fibers. They are long, tube shaped,  cells that develop from myoblasts. 1 person found this useful. 
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. There are various specialized forms of myocytes: cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle cells, with various properties. Each muscle fiber contains myofibrils, which are very long chains of sarcomeres, the contractile units of the cell. A cell from the biceps brachii muscle may contain 100,000 sarcomeres. The myofibrils of smooth muscle cells are not arranged into sarcomer
Skeletal muscle structure. Different types of muscle tissue. An organism's muscle tissue is composed of muscle cells. Multi-unit smooth muscle cells operate independently and single-unit, or visceral, smooth muscle cells operate together as a unit. Muscle mass can be gained artificially from injections of performance-enhancing drugs and hormones.
Rep: 3 years ago. True or False: Another name for a muscle cell is 'myofibril'. I realize that the myofibril is a part of the muscle (fiber) cell, but I am unsure if it is actually another name for the muscle cell, like they are interchangeable. So I don't know if this is one of those trick T/F questions where it's partially right
The scientific name for a muscle cell is a myocyte. Myocytes are  also sometimes called muscle fibers. They are long, tube shaped,  cells that develop from myoblasts. 
Skeletal muscles consist of 100,000s of muscle cells (also known as muscle fibers) that perform the functions of the specific muscle of which they are a part. 
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion. Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth.