Potassium is present in all fruits, vegetables, meat and fish. Foods with high potassium concentrations include yam, parsley, dried apricots, dried milk, chocolate, all nuts (especially almonds and pistachios), potatoes, bamboo shoots, bananas, avocados, coconut water, soybeans, and bran. Dried apricots have the highest concentration of potassium per calorie of any food. Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (derived from Neo-Latin, kalium) and atomic number 19. It was first isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, from which its name is derived.
One more dried fruit that ranks high on the list of potassium-rich food is apricots, with 257 milligrams per 1/4-cup serving. A serving (134 grams) of this refreshing melon clocks in at 358 milligrams of potassium, but springing for a cup of fruit would put you more on par with a banana. A cup of cooked Swiss chard packs 961 milligrams of potassium -- more than double the amount in a medium banana. Popeye’s favorite contains 839 milligrams per one cooked cup and a cup of cooked beet greens has more than 1,300.
Bananas. If you’ve heard about any potassium-rich foods, you probably know that bananas are a good source, containing more than 400 mg of potassium each. Bananas make a healthy high-energy snack – more beneficial to athletes than sports drinks, according to at least one study. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.
Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Some legumes, fish, and dairy products can also make important contributions to our daily potassium intake; yet, because these foods have more calories, they are not as highly rated by our Nutrient Richness System. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System.
15 Foods That Are High In Potassium. Eating more of these potassium-rich foods can lower your risk of high blood pressure, stroke, and heart disease. (Too much potassium, usually from supplements, can be dangerous, so try to get your intake from healthy eating unless a doc says otherwise.) These delicious foods can help you reach your goal. Watch the video: 5 Foods With More Potassium Than a Banana. Next: Sweet potatoes.
If you have high blood pressure, it is recommended to maintain a diet high in potassium rich food. 1 Try to include as many potassium rich foods in your diet as as possible, some foods high in potassium are various fruits, vegetables, dairy foods, and fish.
1 High-potassium foods are an essential part of any balanced diet: The mineral helps to regulate your body’s fluid levels, aids in muscular function and waste removal, and helps keep your nervous system functioning properly. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.
The effectiveness of potassium-rich foods such as pinto beans in lowering blood pressure has been demonstrated by a number of studies. For example, researchers tracked over 40,000 American male health professionals over four years to determine the effects of diet on blood pressure. 
Basic Description. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System.