Introduction. 2a. Explain what is meant by the doctrine of parliamentary supremacy and briefly explain one limitation on this doctrine. The Parliament is the supreme law maker in the UK however there are limitations to the Parliaments power. The supremacy or sovereignty of Parliament was set up in the 17th century
A gavel often symbolizes parliamentary procedure. Parliamentary procedure is the body of rules, ethics, and customs governing meetings and other operations of clubs, organizations, legislative bodies, and other deliberative assemblies. In the United States, parliamentary procedure is also referred to as parliamentary law, parliamentary practice, legislative procedure, or rules of order.
Definition of PARLIAMENTARY LAW. : the rules and precedents governing the proceedings of deliberative assemblies and other organizations. ADVERTISEMENT.
Noun. 1. parliament-a legislative assembly in certain countries. interpellation - (parliament) a parliamentary procedure of demanding that a government official explain some act or policy. law-makers, legislative assembly, legislative body, legislature, general assembly-persons who make or amend or repeal laws. 
These issues remain contested. Parliamentary sovereignty is a description of to what extent does Parliament of the United Kingdom have absolute and unlimited power. It is framed in terms of the extent of authority that parliament holds, and whether there are any sorts of law that it cannot pass. 
Parliamentary sovereignty. Parliamentary sovereignty is a principle of the UK constitution. It makes Parliament the supreme legal authority in the UK, which can create or end any law. Generally, the courts cannot overrule its legislation and no Parliament can pass laws that future Parliaments cannot change. Parliamentary sovereignty is the most important part of the UK constitution.
Contents. A Bill is a proposed law which is introduced into Parliament. Once a Bill has been debated and then approved by each House of Parliament, and has received Royal Assent, it becomes law and is known as an Act. Any Member of Parliament can introduce a Bill. For each session of Parliament, the government will have a legislative programme, which is a plan of the Bills that it will ask Parliament to consider in that session (the period between elections is divided up into sessions, and each of those sessions lasts about a year).
Rules of deliberative bodies by which their procedure is regulated. The rules and usages of Parliament or of deliberative bodies by which their procedure is regulated. A rule of parliamentary law is a rule created and adopted by the legislative or deliberative body it is intended to govern..
Parliamentary law (parliamentary procedure) ... is the art of procedural rules that can enable a group of individuals in a free society, whether there are three or 3000, to meet together and accomplish the purpose for which it has assembled.. Demeter described parliamentary law as the: The rules and usages of Parliament or of deliberative bodies by which their procedure is regulated. A rule of parliamentary law is a rule created and adopted by the legislative or deliberative body it is intended to govern..