The same idea applies to membership. Also, we have to look at this BNI fee as an investment. It costs $450 to join, but if your contacts in BNI can generate you more than $450 in business, then it’s a positive return (not accounting for opportunity costs and time spent at BNIs, of course). BTW for BNI Membership: $450 A YEAR +$150 application fee. Must attend every week for luncheon that takes you away from your desk 3.5 hours every week-includes drive time. if you miss three meetings within 6 months you get kicked out of the group.
1 According to Grasshopper.com, the memberships are going to vary by chapter and can cost $400 to $600 per year, plus meals. 2  One has to receive an invitation from a registered member of a BNI chapter in order to apply for a new membership. 1 One has to receive an invitation from a registered member of a BNI chapter in order to apply for a new membership. 2  Along with the application form, the person interested in joining the network should also provide references and an application fee of $50.
Business networking requires commitment. One element of this commitment is the financial investment to join BNI. Although the initial investment to join is not significant, it is a symbol of a company's or an individual's commitment to embrace the BNI system, and to the other members of a chapter. The investment to join BNI consists of a registration fee, and annual participation fee.
Business Network International (BNI) is a membership organization for small businesses where members network and get referrals. It is an international organization with regional offices around the world and it has about 120,000 active members. 
Option 2. $685 for a two year membership. Therefore, the initial investment to join BNI is $595 for one year or, $835 for two years. Your application will be reviewed by the Chapter's Membership Committee, and you will be notified of the status ASAP. Pay Your BNI Membership Online. We invite you to submit an application for BNI chapter membership to lock out your competitors, upon your acceptance in the chapter. You should submit your completed membership application, along with payment, to the Secretary/Treasurer of the chapter you wish to join.
It costs about $400-600 per year to join a BNI chapter (plus the cost of meals/coffees). Overall your expenses could run upwards of $800/year with food and transportation costs factored in. Many people feel that the cost is offset by the referrals and relationships generated through the organization. BTW for BNI Membership: $450 A YEAR +$150 application fee. Must attend every week for luncheon that takes you away from your desk 3.5 hours every week-includes drive time. if you miss three meetings within 6 months you get kicked out of the group. Period. You can only represent one business category
What you should know: 1  Only one person from each professional specialty is permitted to join a chapter of BNI. 2  All participants should represent their primary occupation, not a part-time business. 3  Attendance is critical. 4  Participation in the chapter by members is a key to the success of a group. What you should know: 1  Only one person from each professional specialty is permitted to join a chapter of BNI. 2  All participants should represent their primary occupation, not a part-time business. 3  Attendance is critical. 4  If you cannot attend a meeting, you may send a substitute. 5  This will not count as an absence.
Lets use the same metric of 18 members for Toastmasters, the total cost for the first year is $1,781 (18 x $92 [including app fee] + $125 Charter Fee) vs BNI’s $8,370 (18 x $365 [minimum] + 18 x $100 app fee). The second year of Toastmasters costs $1,296 vs BNI’s $6,570. 
Join now before your competitor does! Started in January 1985 by Dr. Ivan R. Misner, Founder & Chief Visionary Officer of BNI. BNI provides a positive, supportive, and structured environment for men and women to further their business through word-of-mouth marketing. Networking requires commitment. What you should know: 1  Only one person from each professional specialty is permitted to join a chapter of BNI. 2  All participants should represent their primary occupation, not a part-time business. 3  Attendance is critical. 4  If you cannot attend a meeting, you may send a substitute. 5  This will not count as an absence.