Additional tests include: 1  Blood tests that measure tumor markers -- the levels of these substances rise in the blood if someone has a particular cancer -- can aid diagnosis. 2  Liver cancers secrete a substance called alpha fetoprotein (AFP) that is normally present in fetuses but goes away at birth. 
Your doctor may be able to give a diagnosis from looking at the results of all your scans and blood tests. If you go on to have surgery to remove the cancer, your doctor can confirm the diagnosis afterwards. You can view and print the quick guides for all the pages in the diagnosing liver cancer section. One of the other blood tests you may have detects the level of a chemical in your blood called alpha fetoprotein (AFP). In many people with hepatocellular cancer (HCC) the level of AFP is higher than normal. But the level can also sometimes be raised in people with liver cirrhosis who do not have HCC.
If liver cancer is suspected, a blood test is done to check for hepatitis viruses. Chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV) or both viruses increases the risk of developing liver cancer, and may affect the treatment offered. Diagnosis is the process of finding the cause of a health problem. The process of diagnosis may seem long and frustrating, but it is important for the doctor to rule out other reasons for a health problem before making a cancer diagnosis. Diagnostic tests for liver cancer are usually done when:
Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 
Other blood tests used in diagnosing liver cancer include the following: 1  Liver-function tests, such as to check your level of the liver pigment bilirubin or the liver protein albumin. 2  Coagulation panel to check for problems with blood clotting. 3  Blood counts to check your levels of different types of blood cells. 
You'll probably have a blood test to check how the liver is working (liver function) and how well your blood clots. You may also have liver function tests before, during and after treatment. If primary liver cancer is suspected, you'll have blood tests to check for hepatitis B or C and various genetic problems. You may need a blood test to check the level of certain chemicals known as tumour markers, which are produced by cancer cells. Tumour markers can help diagnose some types of cancer. | Information reviewed by. Primary liver cancer and secondary cancer in the liver are diagnosed using a number of different tests. These include blood testsand scans. Tissue examination (biopsy) is only done rarely.
While they do not diagnose liver cancer, they can tell the doctor that there may be a problem with the liver. The following tests may be used to check liver function: 1  bilirubin. 2  The liver absorbs and uses (metabolizes) bilirubin, which is produced when old red blood cells (RBCs) break down. Diagnosis is the process of finding the cause of a health problem. The process of diagnosis may seem long and frustrating, but it is important for the doctor to rule out other reasons for a health problem before making a cancer diagnosis. Diagnostic tests for liver cancer are usually done when:
Diagnosing liver cancer. Diagnosis is the process of finding the cause of a health problem. The process of diagnosis may seem long and frustrating, but it is important for the doctor to rule out other reasons for a health problem before making a cancer diagnosis. Diagnostic tests for liver cancer are usually done when: