For other uses, see Epidemic (disambiguation) . An epidemic (from Greek ἐπί epi upon or above and δῆμος demos people) is the rapid spread of infectious disease to a large number of people in a given population within a short period of time, usually two weeks or less. Before Hippocrates, epidemios, epidemeo, epidamos, and other variants had meanings similar to the current definitions of indigenous or  endemic .. Thucydides ' description of the Plague of Athens is considered one of the earliest accounts of a disease epidemic.
The amount of a particular disease that is usually present in a community is referred to as the baseline or endemic level of the disease. This level is not necessarily the desired level, which may in fact be zero, but rather is the observed level. Hyperendemic refers to persistent, high levels of disease occurrence. Occasionally, the amount of disease in a community rises above the expected level. Epidemic refers to an increase, often sudden, in the number of cases of a disease above what is normally expected in that population in that area.
The 7.7 percent figure isn't static from year to year, however. The CDC's official definition of an epidemic is: The occurrence of more cases of disease than expected in a given area or among a specific group of people over a particular period of time.. In terms of the flu, the difference between an outbreak and an epidemic is the percenatge of overall deaths caused by the disease. Every week, the CDC gathers morbidity data from hospitals in 122 cities nationwide and figures out what percentage of the decedents died of pneumonia, cancer, and other prolific killers
1 A widespread occurrence of an infectious disease in a community at a particular time: a flu epidemic. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The hugely controversial contiguous cull of livestock to combat the foot-and-mouth epidemic was stoutly defended by the Government. Of the nature of an epidemic: shoplifting has reached epidemic proportions Compare with endemic, pandemic, epizootic. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease that has reached epidemic proportions. 2  HIV has reached epidemic proportions in India.
Bornholm disease, diaphragmatic pleurisy, epidemic myalgia, epidemic pleurodynia, myosis-an acute infectious disease occurring in epidemic form and featuring paroxysms of pain (usually in the chest). 1  Facebook. 
Noun. 1. epidemic-a widespread outbreak of an infectious disease; many people are infected at the same time. outbreak, irruption, eruption-a sudden violent spontaneous occurrence (usually of some undesirable condition); the outbreak of hostilities. 1. (Medicine) (esp of a disease) attacking or affecting many persons simultaneously in a community or area. n. 2. (Medicine) a widespread occurrence of a disease: an influenza epidemic. 3. a rapid development, spread, or growth of something, esp something unpleasant: an epidemic of strikes.
Epidemic: The occurrence of more cases of a disease than would be expected in a community or region during a given time period. A sudden severe outbreak of a disease such as SARS. From the Greek epi-, upon + demos, people or population = epidemos = upon the population.. See also: Endemic; Pandemic. 
Sporadic refers to a disease that occurs infrequently and irregularly. Endemic refers to the constant presence and/or usual prevalence of a disease or infectious agent in a population within a geographic area. Hyperendemic refers to persistent, high levels of disease occurrence. Occasionally, the amount of disease in a community rises above the expected level. Epidemic refers to an increase, often sudden, in the number of cases of a disease above what is normally expected in that population in that area.
The occurrence in a community or region of cases of an illness, specific health-related behavior, or other health-related events clearly in excess of normal expectancy; the word is also used to describe outbreaks of disease in animals or plants. Compare: endemic, sporadic. 