blood urea nitrogen (BUN). Etymology: AS, blod + Gk, ouron, urine, nitron, soda, genein, to produce. a measure of the amount of urea in the blood. Urea forms in the liver as the end product of protein metabolism, circulates in the blood, and is excreted through the kidney in urine. blood u·re·a ni·tro·gen. Nitrogen, in the form of urea,in the blood; the most prevalent of the nonprotein nitrogenous compounds in blood, which normally contains 10-15 mg of urea/100 mL. Canadian clinicians often use the shortened form urea nitrogen.
Urea: A nitrogen-containing substance normally cleared from the blood by the kidney into the urine. Diseases that compromise the function of the kidney often lead to increased blood levels of urea, as measured by the blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test. Urea is of major historical significanc
A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of nitrogen in your blood that comes from the waste product urea. Urea is made when protein is broken down in your body. Urea is made in the liver and passed out of your body in the urine. A BUN test is done to see how well your kidneys are working. If your kidneys are not able to remove urea from the blood normally, your BUN level rises. Heart failure, dehydration, or a diet high in protein can also make your BUN level higher. Liver disease or damage can lower your BUN level.
Symptoms of high blood urea nitrogen in kidney failure. In kidney failure, blood urea nitrogen level increases quickly when Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) decreases to only a half of the normal range. Therefore, elevated blood urea nitrogen means serious illness condition. 
Blood urea nitrogen: A measure of the urea level in blood. Abbreviated BUN. Diseases that compromise the function of the kidney frequently lead to increased BUN levels. 
The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test is a measure of the amount of nitrogen in the blood that comes from urea. It is used as a marker of renal function, though it is inferior to other markers such as creatinine because blood urea levels are influenced by other factors such as diet and dehydration. 
Blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ratio (BUN:creatinine). A BUN test may be done with a blood creatinine test. The level of creatinine in your blood also tells how well your kidneys are working-a high creatinine level may mean your kidneys are not working properly. Blood Urea Nitrogen. Guide. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of nitrogen in your blood that comes from the waste product urea. Urea is made when protein is broken down in your body. Urea is made in the liver and passed out of your body in the urine. A BUN test is done to see how well your kidneys are working
The first is azotemia which means an elevated level of nitrogenous wastes in the blood – blood urea nitrogen and creatinine. The second term is uremia which refers to the clinical signs and symptoms as well as the other biochemical abnormalities seen with elevated urea levels. Azotemia is either prerenal or postrenal. Urea is the organic compound high in nitrogen that is formed in the body during protein and ammonia breakdown. It is fairly harmless but large quantities can be dangerous and urea is constantly passed out by the kidneys in urine.
If your kidneys are not able to remove urea from the blood normally, your BUN level rises. Heart failure, dehydration, or a diet high in protein can also make your BUN level higher. Liver disease or damage can lower your BUN level. A low BUN level can occur normally in the second or third trimester of pregnancy. Blood Urea Nitrogen. Guide. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of nitrogen in your blood that comes from the waste product urea. Urea is made when protein is broken down in your body. Urea is made in the liver and passed out of your body in the urine. A BUN test is done to see how well your kidneys are working