Rihanna is the best selling digital artist of all time. Congratulations to Motha Navy, Robyn Rihanna Fenty. 1. Madonna is the Best selling female artist of all time with worldwide record sales of 300 million and counting. No female artist has sold 300 million beside Madonna. 2. Rihanna comes in at #2 with 230 million worldwide records sold. 3. Mariah Carey is the 3rd best selling artist of all time with over 200 million records sold worldwide.
The success of Partners has helped Streisand further her lead as the best selling female artist in the United States with 72.5 million units shipped according to the RIAA. Madonna, who is the best selling female artist in the world with over 300 million albums shipped, is number two in the United States.
1 Mariah Carey. 2  Also having sold more than 200 million albums worldwide is the American pop and R&B singer-songwriter, Mariah Carey. 3  She is the first artist who’s first five singles made it to the top of the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Mariah Carey has the most #1 singles as a single female artist and is among the top sellers of all time. She also has the best selling self-written, produced and labeled Christmas album and Christmas single All I Want for Christmas is You.
Madonna is the best selling female recording artist of all time. According to the Guinness Book of World Records, Madonna is the most successful female solo artist, having sold around 120 million albums and 40 million singles (estimation); a combined total more than any other female singer worldwide, since 1982.
The 10 best-selling female artists of all time need to have sold more than 50 million records in order to make the list. The beautiful and talented women on our list of have each sold more than 100 million records. 1  Madonna.
Madonna is also the top selling female in the USA, that is if we combine both her albums and singles sales. However, when counting only albums, Barbra Streisand is the best selling female artist in the United States, with over 71 million albums shipped.
As of 2013, Only Adele made her way in The top 10 Best Albums from Ladies who changed our lives and helped us to give it a sense! No doubt about the fact that the 90's still dominates. Canada and USA holds the most successful female artists /Albums of All time. I do not own copyrights to these songs.
Madonna is the top selling female recording artist of all time. Since her debut in 1982, Madonna has released many chart-topping albums and singles, and has sold more than 200 million albums and 50 million singles worldwide (estimations).