Many new techniques were introduced during the Renaissance. These techniques helped to enhance the quality and realism of the art. Perspective-perspective is drawing or painting a picture such that it looks like there are three dimensions.
There were many great artists during the Renaissance. Perhaps the most famous are Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo.
High Renaissance (1475-1525) - A rising interest in perspective and space gave the art even more realism. Great artists such as Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, and Rafael flourished during this period.
Caravaggio was one of the last great Renaissance artists. He was known for his realistic physical and emotional paintings. He also made use of light in his painting for added drama. His art influenced the next era of painting called the Baroque style of painting.
The Renaissance began after the plague in the 14th and 15th centuries and was fueled by soldiers returning from the Crusades. There was renewed interest in ancient Greek and Roman art. Human beings were included in artwork. Artwork was no longer just depictions of holy topics.
He lived in Florence, Italy at the start of the Renaissance. He was a humanist and interested in Greek and Roman sculpture. He introduced new ways of creating depth and perspective in art. Some of Donatello's most famous sculptures include David, St. Mark, the Gattamelata, and the Magdalene Penitent.
As a youth he was greatly influenced by Masaccio, Giotto, Signorelli, and Donatello who were prominent figures during the Low Renaissance. His primary concentration was on sculpture and it was a Pieta' made in 1500 that attracted the awareness of the Catholic Church.
The origins of Renaissance art can be traced to Italy in the late 13th and early 14th centuries. During this so-called “proto-Renaissance” period (1280-1400), Italian scholars and artists saw themselves as reawakening to the ideals and achievements of classical Roman culture.
In the 1530s the influence of mannerism began to be felt, particularly at Fontainebleau (see Fontainebleau, school of). Artists in England and Spain were influenced by Netherlandish painting until the 16th cent., when the Italian Renaissance began to permeate Europe.
Renaissance. The Renaissance was a period of great creative and intellectual activity, during which artists broke away from the restrictions of Byzantine Art. Throughout the 15th century, artists studied the natural world in order to perfect their understanding of such subjects as anatomy and perspective.