Orchitis Causes and Risk Factors. The most common cause of orchitis is the mumps. Mumps is a viral childhood disease that is rare in the United States due to effective immunization programs. The Mayo Clinic estimates that 33 percent of men who contract mumps as a teen also develop orchitis (Mayo Clinic). 
Mumps is an extremely contagious viral infection that usually affects children. The condition has a number of symptoms, the most common one being swelling of one or both of the salivary glands on the sides of the face. As mumps is viral, antibiotics cannot be used to treat it, and at present there are no anti-viral medications able to treat mumps. Treatment can only help relieve the symptoms until the infection has run its course and the body has developed an immunity, much like a cold.
Bacterial parotitis must be differentiated from viral parotitis which is most commonly caused by mumps; other viral pathogens include HIV, enteroviruses, EBV, influenza, parainfluenza, CMV, and lymphocytic choriomeningitis. Parotitis is inflammation of the parotid salivary gland: it can be acute, chronic, or chronic with acute exacerbations. Acute suppurative parotitis was a well recognized complication of abdominal surgeries prior to routine administration of perioperative antibiotics.
Causes of mumps. Mumps is caused by the mumps virus, which belongs to a family of viruses known as paramyxoviruses. These viruses are a common source of infection, particularly in children. When you get mumps, the virus moves from your respiratory tract (your nose, mouth and throat) into your parotid glands (saliva-producing glands found either side of your face), where it begins to reproduce. This causes the glands to swell.
Vir al parotitis is more common worldwide than bacterial parotitis with mumps being the most common viral cause of parotitis in children. Other viruses are provided in Table 2. Parotitis is inflammation of the parotid salivary gland: it can be acute, chronic, or chronic with acute exacerbations. Acute suppurative parotitis was a well recognized complication of abdominal surgeries prior to routine administration of perioperative antibiotics.
Causes. The cause of mumps is the mumps virus, which spreads easily from person to person through infected saliva. If you're not immune, you can contract mumps by breathing in saliva droplets of an infected person who has just sneezed or coughed. 
Mumps (epidemic parotitis) is a viral disease caused by the mumps virus. It is a contagious disease that is spread from person to person through contact with respiratory secre … tions such as saliva from an infected person. 
Infectious parotitis [edit]. Acute bacterial parotitis: is most often caused by a bacterial infection of Staphylococcus aureus but may be caused by any commensal bacteria. Parotitis as Extrapulmonary Tuberculosis: The mycobacterium that cause tuberculosis can also cause parotid infection. 
Examples of how it can be spread are: Someone infected with the mumps virus is contagious for approximately 15 days (six days before the symptoms start to show, up to nine days after they start). The mumps virus is part of the paramyxovirus family, which is a widespread cause of infection, especially in children. Normally, mumps can be diagnosed by its symptoms alone, especially by examining the facial swelling. In addition to examining this area and taking a note of the symptoms, a doctor may: As mumps is viral, antibiotics cannot be used to treat it, and at present there are no anti-viral medications able to treat mumps. Treatment can only help relieve the symptoms until the infection has run its course and the body has developed an immunity, much like a cold.