There are different types of galactosemia: classic galactosemia (also known as type I, is the most common and most severe form of the condition), galactosemia type II (also called galactokinase deficiency), and type III (also called galactose epimerase deficiency). Galactosemia, which means “galactose in the blood”, is a rare inherited condition. People with galactosemia have problems digesting a type of sugar called galactose from the food they eat.
It is primarily part of a larger sugar called lactose, which is found in all dairy products and many baby formulas. The signs and symptoms of galactosemia result from an inability to use galactose to produce energy. Researchers have identified several types of galactosemia. These conditions are each caused by mutations in a particular gene and affect different enzymes involved in breaking down galactose. Classic galactosemia, also known as type I, is the most common and most severe form of the condition. If infants with classic galactosemia are not treated promptly with a low-galactose diet, life-threatening complications appear within a few days after birth
Galactosemia is a treatable inherited disease that reduces the body's ability to metabolize galactose, a simple sugar found in milk. The classic form of galactosemia can be fatal without prompt treatment and careful management. Duarte galactosemia is a much milder form of the disease in which a person has 25 to 50% of the normal amount of galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase. People with Duarte galactosemia generally do not suffer any of the symptoms of classic galactosemia.
A galactosemia test is a blood test (from the heel of the infant) or urine test that checks for three enzymes that are needed to change galactose sugar that is found in milk and milk products into glucose, a sugar that the human body uses for energy. A person with galactosemia doesn't have one of these enzymes. Galactosemia follows an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance that confers a deficiency in an enzyme responsible for adequate galactose degradation.
Classic galactosemia, the most severe form of the disease, is caused by a deficiency in an enzyme called galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase. People with classic galactosemia have less than 5% of the normal activity in this enzyme. Duarte galactosemia is a much milder form of the disease in which a person has 25 to 50% of the normal amount of galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase. People with Duarte galactosemia generally do not suffer any of the symptoms of classic galactosemia.
Galactose is found in lactose. Lactose is the sugar found in many kinds of foods and in all dairy products. Normally when you eat something that has lactose, your body breaks lactose down into galactose and glucose. 
Galactosemia is an inherited defect of galactose metabolism caused by an enzyme deficiency that prevents proper metabolism and utilization of galactose, or milk sugar. The main dietary source of galactose is lactose, the principle carbohydrate found in all forms of milk. 
Galactose makes up half of lactose, the sugar found in milk. The other sugar is glucose. If an infant with galactosemia is given milk, substances made from galactose build up in the infant's system. These substances damage the liver, brain, kidneys, and eyes. Persons with galactosemia cannot tolerate any form of milk (human or animal). They must be careful about eating other foods containing galactose.
Galactosemia (British galactosaemia) is a rare genetic metabolic disorder that affects an individual's ability to metabolize the sugar galactose properly. Galactosemia follows an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance that confers a deficiency in an enzyme responsible for adequate galactose degradation.
1 It is charcaterised by the deficiency of Galactose-1 phosphate uridyl transferase, an enzyme that is responsible for converting Galactose consumed by an individual to Glucose. 2  Galactosemia Type II – It is also known as Galactokinase Deficiency and is rarer than the classic forms. Picture 1 – Galactosemia. 1  Classic Galactosemia – It is the commonest and the most acute form of the disease. 2  Galactosemia Type II – It is also known as Galactokinase Deficiency and is rarer than the classic forms. 3  Galactosemia Type III – It is referred to as Galactose Epimerase Deficiency and is very rare.