You cannot transport hierarchies into another BI system because hierarchies are data (see Using the Data Mart Interface sap). Creating hierarchies. You can create characteristic hierarchies in your BI system. Note that the size of the hierarchy influences performance (see Creating Hierarchies). Editing hierarchies. In hierarchy maintenance for the BI system, you can change, copy, delete, or set reporting-relevant hierarchy attributes in characteristic hierarchies (see Editing Hierarchies). Activating hierarchies. To use hierarchies in reporting, you have to activate your
1 Choose the icon. 2  Provide a name and description to the new hierarchy. 3  In Hierarchy Type dropdown list, select Parent-Child Hierarchy. 4  Create parent-child elements. 5  In the Node section, choose Add. 6  In the Child column dropdown list, select a column value as the child attribute. 1 If you want to place the parent-child hierarchies under a root node, in the Root Node value help, select a value. 2  If you want to add additional attributes to execute the hierarchy, then. 3  In Additional Attributes
Next to Parameters, click Create, and in the Create Parameter dialog box, complete the following steps. 1  Name the parameter appropriately so that viewers can tell what changing it will do. 2  This example uses Select Column 1 Heading. 3  For Data type, select String. 
If a table contains hierarchical data, then you can select rows in a hierarchical order using the hierarchical query clause: hierarchical_query_clause ::=. START WITH specifies the root row(s) of the hierarchy. 
1 Provide a name and description to the new hierarchy. 2  In Hierarchy Type dropdown list, select Parent-Child Hierarchy. 3  Create parent-child elements. 4  In the Node section, choose Add. 5  In the Child column dropdown list, select a column value as the child attribute. 1 If you want to place the parent-child hierarchies under a root node, in the Root Node value help, select a value. 2  If you want to add additional attributes to execute the hierarchy, then. 3  In Additional Attributes
You can use Reporting Services aggregate functions that accept the parameter Recursive to calculate summary data for a recursive hierarchy. The following functions accept Recursive as a parameter: Sum, Avg, Count, CountDistinct, CountRows, Max, Min, StDev, StDevP, Sum, Var, and VarP. Displaying hierarchical data is a common use for recursive hierarchy groups, for example, employees in an organizational chart. The dataset includes a list of employees and the managers, where the manager names also appear in the list of employees.
Parent-child hierarchies are value-based hierarchies, and you create a parent-child hierarchy from a single parent attribute. You can also define multiple parent-child pairs to support the compound node IDs. 1 If you want to place the parent-child hierarchies under a root node, in the Root Node value help, select a value. 2  If you want to add additional attributes to execute the hierarchy, then. 3  In Additional Attributes section, choose Add.
Creating Recursive Hierarchies. To build a recursive hierarchy in a tablix data region, you must set the group expression to the field that specifies the child data and the Parent property of the group to the field that specifies the parent data. Displaying hierarchical data is a common use for recursive hierarchy groups, for example, employees in an organizational chart. The dataset includes a list of employees and the managers, where the manager names also appear in the list of employees.
Create Parent-Child Hierarchies. In parent-child hierarchies, you use a parent attribute that determines the relationship among the view attributes. Parent-child hierarchies have elements of the same type and do not contain named levels. 1 If you want to place the parent-child hierarchies under a root node, in the Root Node value help, select a value. 2  If you want to add additional attributes to execute the hierarchy, then. 3  In Additional Attributes section, choose Add.
I will be using the same 2 parameters on all of the reports. These parameters are called Division and Operations and are populated from a Client Dimension table hierarchy. These parameters are also cascading, being that the Operations parameter should change based on the value in the Division parameter. 