Balancing your salt and potassium intake may improve your blood pressure. The interplay between nutrients in your diet can have a profound effect on your health. The relationship between potassium and the sodium in salt, for example, influences your overall cardiovascular well-being. Both sodium and potassium hold a positive charge, while chloride holds a negative charge. Sodium and chloride, the components of table salt, are mostly concentrated outside your cells, while potassium is more concentrated inside your cells.
Potassium salt provides a half-salt substitute, which incorporates the flavoring benefits of sodium chloride salt with the health benefits of a serving of potassium. Since potassium salt consists of only half sodium chloride, making the switch will subtract at least half of your regular daily sodium intake, provided the same amount of salt is used in meals. Certain other factors exist that could increase the need for potassium salt.
Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets is an electrolyte replenisher used to treat low levels of potassium in the blood (hypokalemia). Potassium Chloride Extended Release is available in generic form. Common side effects of potassium chloride are nausea, vomiting, gas, abdominal pain or discomfort, and diarrhea. 
1 Review. Potassium chloride is a mineral supplement used to treat or prevent low levels of potassium in the blood. The supplement, often referred to as the formula KCl, is available from dozens of manufacturers. Potassium is essential for the function of the heart, muscles, kidneys, nerves, and digestive system. Typically, a well-balanced diet supplies all the potassium you need. However, certain diseases, conditions, or drugs can remove potassium from the body.
Potassium salt is often used as a substitute for regular sodium chloride salt (the salt you find on your kitchen table), and for good reason. Most people in the United States take in too much salt on a daily basis, which may put them at risk for hypertension, heart attacks and strokes. Since potassium salt consists of only half sodium chloride, making the switch will subtract at least half of your regular daily sodium intake, provided the same amount of salt is used in meals. Certain other factors exist that could increase the need for potassium salt.
The chemical compound potassium chloride (KCl) is a metal halide salt composed of potassium and chloride. It is odorless and has a white or colorless vitreous crystal appearance. The solid dissolves readily in water and its solutions have a salt-like taste. KCl is used in medicine, scientific applications, food processing, and used to cause cardiac arrest as the third drug in the three drug cocktail for executions by lethal injection.
Lesson Summary. Potassium chloride is an ionic compound and is a salt that naturally occurs as a solid that has a powdery and crystalline appearance. Its chemical formula is KCl: it consists of one potassium (K+) ion and one chlorine (Cl-) ion. Potassium chloride has so many uses in various fields. An ionic compound is made of a metal element and a nonmetal element. In potassium chloride, the metal element is potassium (K) and the nonmetal element is chlorine (Cl), so we can say that KCl is an ionic compound. Imagine what happens when a potassium (K) atom meets a chlorine (Cl) atom.
Potassium chloride also is a naturally occurring mineral and is used primarily in agriculture. It works in softeners the same way sodium chloride does but replaces the hard water minerals with potassium instead of sodium. Some people prefer sodium chloride, while others prefer potassium chloride. Even though these two products compete for sales in the softening salt market, the fact is there’s plenty of room for both to thrive.