Bondo® Glazing and Spot Putty is a 1-part putty that fills imperfections, pinholes in body filler, scratches, paint chips and minor dings. Can be used with other auto body repair materials. Sandable in only 30 minutes. 
Consistency of Linseed Oil Glazing Putty: It is very easy to knead the oil into the glazing after you have heated the glazing in a microwave oven for 10 to 15 seconds. Heat with 5 minutes increments. Remove the heated glazing from the container onto a cold surface. For use when you apply the linseed oil glazing compound onto the window and you want to remove any excess linseed oil from the glass. The pumice powder has a great ability to soak up the oil. Pumice powder works significantly better than regular chalk when it comes to absorbing oil.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Glazing compound is a product which is used in the installation of glass panes. The process of fitting glass panes into a window, known as glazing, includes applying glazing putty to create a snug seal which will keep water out. 
Pry out loose chunks of glazing compound with a putty knife. Soften remaining areas with a heat gun and scrape the putty away. On older single-pane windows, the glass is usually surrounded by putty called “glazing compound,” which holds the glass in place and seals out the weather. This putty often lasts decades, but over the years it becomes rock-hard, cracks and even falls off the window
How to putty or glaze a glass window using Dap 33 Glazing Compound and a glazing tool. If window is loose make sure to use push points to secure it. Be careful with push points as it is easy to crack window when pushing them in. Dean Brandhagen Chimney Services http://flue.guru. 
Glazing compound or glazing putty is one of the most easy-to-use constructional and repair materials. It is commonly used in the installation and repair of window glass panes, like when re-securing a displaced edge of an old pane. Glazing putties are made from various materials, including the conventional rubber-based putties and the new caulk-based variety. You need to spend some time in getting used to handling the putty. Most first-time users struggle with the sticky nature of the glazing compound. However, the extreme stickiness helps to form a quick bond and makes the putty very flexible.
http://CollisionBlast.com Putty glaze or glazing putty is a thinner filler used to fill pin holes and other small imperfections. It applies smoother and sands easier than body filler. It also does a good job of leveling the different layers of body filler and paint coatings. 
Glazing, which derives from the Middle English for 'glass', is a part of a wall or window, made of glass. Glazing also describes the work done by a professional  glazier . Glazing is also (less commonly) used to describe the insertion of ophthalmic lenses into an eyeglass frame. 
1 Putty is a generic term for a plastic material similar in texture to clay or dough typically used in domestic construction and repair as a sealant or filler. 2  Painter's Putty is typically a linseed oil based product used for filling holes, minor cracks and defacements in wood only. 1 The name putty is also applied to substances resembling putty, such as iron putty, a mixture of ferric oxide and linseed oil; and red-lead putty, a mixture of red and white lead and linseed oil. 2  Certain doughlike plastics are also called putty. 3  Putty powder (tin oxide) is used in polishing glass, granite, and metal.
Allow primer to dry. Do not attempt to use the glazing putty until the surface is completely dry. Squeeze a small amount of the glazing putty onto a putty knife and smooth into the area. Spread the glazing putty through the dent or scratch, smoothing the surface as you go. Allow the glazing putty to dry. 