Yersinia pestis (formerly Pasteurella pestis) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped coccobacillus, a facultative anaerobic bacterium that can infect humans and animals. It causes the deadly disease named plague. Y. pestis is a nonmotile, rod-shaped, facultative anaerobe with bipolar staining (giving it a safety pin appearance). Similar to other Yersinia species, it tests negative for urease, lactose fermentation, and indole.
Yersinia pestis. By: Katia Sutyak. Life History Yersinia pestis is the causative agent of the systemic invasive infectious disease often referred to as the plague. The Y. pestis is an extremely virulent pathogen that is likely to cause severe illness and death upon infection unless antibiotics are administered. Transmission. Y. pestis has the ability to cause disease in rodents, insects and humans. The primary carriers of the pathogen are the Oriental rat flea, Xenopsylla cheopis, and infected rodents. The path of transmission to humans usually involves a flea feeding on an infected rodent and becoming a carrier of infection.
Y. pestis causes diseases through the bite of an infected rat or flea, but can also be transmitted by air. Fleas can become infected by taking the blood of other infected animals. Y. pestis grows in the midgut and eventually blocks the proventriculus, starving the flea for blood (1) . Cell structure and metabolism. Yersinia pestis is a rod shaped gram-negative bacteria that can also have a spherical shape. It is also covered by a slime envelope that is heat labile. When the bacteria is in a host, it is nonmotile (incapable of self-propelled movement), but when isolated it is motile (1) .
Transmission. Yersinia pestis bacteria are found in animals throughout the world, most commonly in rats but occasionally in other wild animals, such as prairie dogs. Most cases of human plague are caused by bites of infected animals or the infected fleas that feed on them.
Plague. Plague is an infectious disease caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. These bacteria are found mainly in rodents, particularly rats, and in the fleas that feed on them. Other animals and humans usually contract the bacteria from rodent or flea bites. Yersinia pestis bacteria are found in animals throughout the world, most commonly in rats but occasionally in other wild animals, such as prairie dogs. Most cases of human plague are caused by bites of infected animals or the infected
Like Y. pseudotuberculosis and Y. enterocolitica, Y. pestis is host to the plasmid pCD1. In addition, it also hosts two other plasmids, pPCP1 (also called pPla or pPst) and pMT1 (also called pFra) that are not carried by the other Yersinia species. Y. pestis is a nonmotile, rod-shaped, facultative anaerobe with bipolar staining (giving it a safety pin appearance). Similar to other Yersinia species, it tests negative for urease, lactose fermentation, and indole.
Plague is a zoonotic disease caused by the gram-negative bacteria Yersinia pestis. It is endemic (naturally occurring) on all continents except for Antarctica and Australia. Pneumonic plague can also develop secondary to the other types of plague and occurs when Y. pestis infects the lungs. Once in the lungs, Y. pestis is contagious and can spread to others through respiratory droplets, causing primary pneumonic plague.
Clinical presentations include subclinical plague (positive serology without disease); plague pharyngitis; pestis minor (abortive bubonic plague); bubonic plague; septicemic plague; pneumonic plague; and plague meningitis. Most prominent of plague's differential diagnosis are Reye's syndrome, other causes of lymphadenitis, bacterial pneumonias, tularemia, and acute surgical abdomen. Treatment has reduced mortality from 40-90% to 5-18%.
Background. Plague is an acute, contagious, febrile illness transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected rat flea. Human-to-human transmission is rare except during epidemics of pneumonic plague. The disease is caused by the plague bacillus, rod-shaped bacteria referred to as Yersinia pestis. Yersinia is named in honor of Alexander Yersin, who successfully isolated the bacteria in 1894 during the pandemic that began in China in the 1860s. It can harbor fleas infected with Yersinia pestis, the plague bacillus. Image courtesy of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, Ga. Rock squirrel in extremis coughing blood-streaked sputum related to
Plague pneumonia disease caused by Yersinia pestis. Cleri DJ(1), Vernaleo JR, Lombardi LJ, Rabbat MS, Mathew A, Marton R, Reyelt MC. Author information: (1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Community Medicine, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center, Paterson, NJ 07503, USA. Most prominent of plague's differential diagnosis are Reye's syndrome, other causes of lymphadenitis, bacterial pneumonias, tularemia, and acute surgical abdomen. Treatment has reduced mortality from 40-90% to 5-18%.