Hydrocracking of vegetable oils is a prominent technology for the production of biofuels. This work compares the product yields and quality of hydrocracking fresh and used cooking oil under nominal operating conditions. 
Source: Millennium Global, Inc., used with permission. A hydrocracking unit, or hydrocracker, takes gas oil, which is heavier and has a higher boiling range than distillate fuel oil, and cracks the heavy molecules into distillate and gasoline in the presence of hydrogen and a catalyst.
Although the hydrocracking process has several advantages over fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking is, in comparison, a more costly process. Therefore, it is not exclusively used, and refineries typically operate with both processes in order to produce the most desirable yield of products. 
The first plant that might be considered as a commercial hydrocracking unit began operation in Leuna, Germany in 1927. Similar efforts to convert coal to liquid fuels took place in the Great Britain, France and other countries. Between 1925 and 1930, Standard Oil of New Jersey collaborated with I.G. Hydrocracking enjoyed rapid growth in the United States during the late 1960s and the early 1970s. By the mid-1970s, hydrocracking had become a mature process and its growth began to moderate.
Ammonium Bisulfide Corrosion. Introduction. Hydrocracking is a two-stage process combining catalytic cracking and hydrogenation, wherein heavier feedstock are cracked in the presence of hydrogen to produce more desirable products. The process employs high pressure, high temperature, a catalyst, and hydrogen. 
More loosely, outside the field of petroleum chemistry, the term cracking is used to describe any type of splitting of molecules under the influence of heat, catalysts and solvents, such as in processes of destructive distillation or pyrolysis. Fluid catalytic cracking produces a high yield of petrol and LPG, while hydrocracking is a major source of jet fuel, Diesel fuel, naphtha, and again yields LPG. Refinery using the Shukhov cracking process, Baku, Soviet Union, 1934.
In petroleum geology and chemistry, cracking is the process whereby complex organic molecules such as kerogens or long chain hydrocarbons are broken down into simpler molecules such as light hydrocarbons, by the breaking of carbon-carbon bonds in the precursors. Fluid catalytic cracking produces a high yield of petrol and LPG, while hydrocracking is a major source of jet fuel, Diesel fuel, naphtha, and again yields LPG. Refinery using the Shukhov cracking process, Baku, Soviet Union, 1934.
Hydrocracking is a catalytic cracking process assisted by the presence of added hydrogen gas. Unlike a hydrotreater, where hydrogen is used to cleave C-S and C-N bonds, hydrocracking uses hydrogen to break C-C bonds (hydrotreatment is conducted prior to hydrocracking to protect the catalysts in a hydrocracking). Fluid catalytic cracking produces a high yield of petrol and LPG, while hydrocracking is a major source of jet fuel, Diesel fuel, naphtha, and again yields LPG. Refinery using the Shukhov cracking process, Baku, Soviet Union, 1934.
Hydrocracking is a specific operation that takes a fraction of petroleum called gas oil which is heavy and cracks it into smaller molecules that are suitable for incorporation into gasoline, diesel, and jet, with an emphasis on the latter two. This occurs at high temperature with a very different set of catalysts than that used in either hydrotreating or hydrogenation processes. The hydrogen is used both as a mechanism to hydrogenate olefins and as a quench for temperature control.