Cardiac muscle is a type of highly oxidative (using molecular oxygen to generate energy) involuntary striated muscle found in the walls of the heart, specifically the myocardi … um. Cardiac muscle cells are known as cardiac myocytes. Coordinated contraction of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood from the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Cardiac muscle cells, like all tissues in the body, rely on an ample blood supply to deliver oxygen and nutrients and to remove waste products such as carbon dioxide.
Cardiac muscle: A type of muscle tissue that is found only in the heart and is distinguishable from the two other forms of muscle, smooth muscle (that moves internal organs, such as the bowels, and vessels, such as the artery walls) and skeletal muscle (that powers joints). 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. The cardiac muscle is the heart, responsible for pumping blood throughout the body. It is made up of cardiac muscle and is the only place in the body where such muscle is found. All the other muscles in the body are composed of either skeletal muscle or smooth muscle
Confidence votes 393. The cardiac muscle in the heart is the musculature responsible for contracting the heart and thereby causing blood flow. What the first answerer to this question wrote is more or less entirely inaccurate, especially the parts concerning proper blood-flow through the heart. 
The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. The myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart, and forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer. An isolated cardiac muscle cell, beating. Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle
Cardiac muscle. Cardiac muscle is a type of involuntary striated muscle found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. These three types of muscle all form in a process known as myogenesis
Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This complex mechanism illustrates systole of the heart. An isolated cardiac muscle cell, beating. Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle