This famous surname, with spellings of Gordon, Gorden and Gourdon, is of locational origins. It is Scottish from Gordon in Berwickshire, or Anglo-French from Gourdon in the departement of Saone-et-Loire, France. Branches of his family have since held the titles of Lord of Strathbogie, Duke of Gordon and Earl and Marquess of Huntly. Richard Gorden, was christened on the 5th March 1665 at St. James Clerkenwell, in the city of London. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Richer de Gordun. This was dated 1154, in the Records of St. Michael's Church, Kelso, Scotland, during the reign of King David 1 of Scotland, 1124 - 1153. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation
Instead, check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Gordon in Ancestry Message Boards. Browse or post a query about your genealogy, surname origin, or family history in the Gordon surname forum. Look for unknown cousins or relatives with whom you may have lost touch. 'A family without a genealogy is like a country without a history' --Ancient Chinese Proverb. Gordon in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Join others on the Gordon genealogy mailing list for discussion and sharing of information regarding family histories of Gordon surname and its variations. Note: Not all surnames have a mailing list.
The name Gordon is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Gordon is: From the cornered hill. American Meaning: The name Gordon is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Gordon is: From the cornered hill. English Meaning: The name Gordon is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Gordon is: From the three cornered hill or From the marshes.
Gordon. The Scottish surname Gordon originated from the place-name Gordon in Berwickshire on the Scottish borders, this name deriving from the Old Gaelic gor meaning large or spacious and dun meaning fort.. It became adopted by an Anglo-Norman family there in the 12th century. Gordon is also a Jewish name, possibly dating back to the 17th century. Its most likely source is a place-name of Grodno in Belarus near the Polish/Lithuanian border. The Gordon name featured among the late 19th century Jews of Bialystok.
1 Gordon (given name) , the masculine given name. 2  Gordon (surname) , the surname. 3  Gordon (slave) , escaped to a Union Army camp during the U.S. Civil War; it isn't known whether Gordon was his first name or a surname. 4  Enlistee in the British Gordon Highlanders infantry regiment. 1 Gordon (surname) , the surname. 2  Gordon (slave) , escaped to a Union Army camp during the U.S. Civil War; it isn't known whether Gordon was his first name or a surname.
Web Sites. Meaning of Gordon. Gordon Meaning: one who came from Gordon (spacious hill), in Berwickshire; one who lived on a three-cornered hill or wedge-shaped piece of land; one who came from Grodno (fortified place) in Byelorussia. Gordon Origin(s): Submit Info. Gordon History: Submit Info. Submit Coat of Arms. 
Surname. Scottish Meaning: The name Gordon is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Gordon is: From the marshes. A surname and given name adopted from a Scottish place name. One of Scotland's great clans. The name Gordon is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Gordon is: From the cornered hill. English Meaning: The name Gordon is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Gordon is: From the three cornered hill or
From a Scottish surname which was originally derived from a place name meaning spacious fort. It was originally used in honour of Charles George Gordon (1833-1885), a British general who died defending the city of Khartoum in Sudan. Related Names. 