Zebras (/ˈzɛbrə/ ZEB-rə or /ˈziːbrə/ ZEE-brə) are several species of African equids (horse family) united by their distinctive black and white striped coats. Their stripes come in different patterns, unique to each individual. The common plains zebra is about 50–52 inches (12.2–13 hands, 1.3 m) at the shoulder with a body ranging from 6–8.5 feet (2–2.6 m) long with an 18-inch (0.5 m) tail.
Yes, the majority of horse breeds are larger than zebras. Zebras are a member of the Horse family, Equidae. There are three types of Zebra and are genetically more similar to … a donkey than a horse. Zebras are generally smaller than horses and range from a height of 1.2 to 1.5 meters height from the ground to the top of the shoulder and weigh between a little under 300 kilogram to a little under 500 kg. No. Zebras can be the same size as the wild or feral horses like the Mustang or the Przewalski's Horse, but are smaller than the larger draft breeds.
HYBRID EQUINES. Equid (horse, donkey, zebra) hybrids are well known and some are bred commercially. The generic term for a zebra hybrid with a horse, pony, donkey or ass is a zebroid. The generic term for a hybrid of a zebra with any type of donkey or ass is a zebrass
Both horse and zebra differ in several ways, but interestingly they are of the same family and the genus. The distribution is one common difference as zebras are exclusive to Africa but horses do not range in only one place of the Earth. Apart from the distribution and some common differences, this article discusses other important biological differences between horse and zebra. The muzzle of a horse is not necessarily black, but can be pink and brown as well. After a stallion mates with a mare, the pregnancy lasts for 335 – 340 days. The usual lifespan of a healthy horse is between 25 and 30 years, but the recorded longest-lived horse was 62 years old in captivity.
Uploaded on Sep 24, 2008. This is a 'Zebroid', (or 'Zorse') - an amazing cross between a horse and a zebra, bred at a German zoo. ♥ Click to subscribe for more cute videos: http://bit.ly/ZqphqC. ►WATCH 'Pick of the Week': http://bit.ly/PickofTheWeek. Why don't you come and join Uzoo to stay up to date with our videos and other animal stories: 
There are three species of zebras: the plains zebra, the Grevy'grévy s zebra and the mountain. Zebra the plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the Subgenus, hippotigris But'grevy grévy s zebra is the sole species Of. subgenus dolichohippus The common plains zebra is about 50–52 inches (12.2–13 hands, 1.3 m) at the shoulder with a body ranging from 6–8.5 feet (2–2.6 m) long with an 18-inch (0.5 m) tail.
Best Answer: OK The fastest speed recorded for a zebra is 40 mph and that was when he was being chased. They normally runaway at 30+ mph. Horses can run about 20-25 mph, except for race horses that go between 40-45 mph So your average zebra runs faster than your average horse. 
The skull of a Grant's zebra. The common plains zebra is about 50–52 inches (12.2–13 hands, 1.3 m) at the shoulder with a body ranging from 6–8.5 feet (2–2.6 m) long with an 18-inch (0.5 m) tail. It can weigh up to 770 pounds (350 kg), males being slightly bigger than females
The Plains Zebra and the Mountain Zebra belongs to the subgenus Hippotigris while Grevy’s Zebra belong to the Dolichohippus species. This is similar to an ass while Plains and Mountain Zebras are quite close to horses. There are a lot of distinguishing features between a horse and zebra. Zebra vs Horse. The scientific name of a horse is Equus ferus caballus. It is a hoofed mammal and a sub-specie of the seven extant species of the Equidae family. Over the past 45 to 55 million years the horse has developed from a small multi toed creature to a large one toed animal