Outlet Placement. Your washing machine outlet should be placed up and out of the way of the drain hose and water lines that are attached to your machine. This is both an ease-of-use issue and a safety one. Placing the outlet above the machine allows you to unplug the unit without having to pull it out from the wall. If your washing machine requires 240 V to operate, your outlet will need to be wired for that voltage level and have a plug configuration that matches your washing machine's power plug.
Connecting to the outlet from your washing machine. You have to find a way to get the water from your washing machine to the Flotender. The Flotender can be placed either in the garage, under the house or outside of the house. It is most preferable to have it where it can be accessed easily. Using washing machine water to water your lawn Washing machine water can also be used to water your lawn through subsurface irrigation. Netafim makes a great product for grey water subsurface irrigation. It is tubing that has emitters built into it at specified intervals.
1 Outlets Close to a Sink. 2  This would include the receptacle for the washing machine outlet if it is within 6 feet of the outside edge of the sink, and I would feel that this would apply if there was any type of water source such as a shower head and faucet in sinks. 1 The washing machine outlet itself does not require a GFCI outlet, however any outlet within 6 feet of the outside edge of the sink in laundry rooms require that it be GFCI protected.
Save. Martin Poole/Lifesize/Getty Images. Washing machines run off of 110 volts, as do most standard appliances in the home, unlike a dryer or stove requiring 220 volts. When repairing or installing a washer outlet, a GFCI (ground fault circuit interrupter) outlet is recommended for use. Install the cover over the outlet using the included screws. Tighten the screws to a snug fit. Plug the washer in and test for power. Press the black button on the face of the GFCI outlet to test and trip the circuit.
The SharkBite Washing Machine Outlet Box features an instant Push-to-Connect connection and can be used with copper, CPVC or PEX lines. Each fitting increases ease of use while decreasing the time and effort needed to connect water distribution pipe. There is no glue, soldering or crimping needed. 
Homeowners may mistakenly believe that a washing machine, being a water-using appliance, requires a GFCI outlet. In fact, GFCIs are not required if you only have a washing machine in your laundry room. If, however, there is a sink within six feet of the washing machine outlet, a GFCI outlet is required. If your washing machine requires 240 V to operate, your outlet will need to be wired for that voltage level and have a plug configuration that matches your washing machine's power plug.
1 This would include the receptacle for the washing machine outlet if it is within 6 feet of the outside edge of the sink, and I would feel that this would apply if there was any type of water source such as a shower head and faucet in sinks. 1 The washing machine outlet itself does not require a GFCI outlet, however any outlet within 6 feet of the outside edge of the sink in laundry rooms require that it be GFCI protected.
GFI Protection. Installing a ground fault interrupting (GFI) outlet provides an extra level of protection against electric shock, but a GFI outlet is not required for washing machines under the National Electrical Code unless the washer outlet is located in an unfinished basement or within 6 feet of a sink. Safety Breaker. Washing machines can be plugged into a standard three-wire grounded AC circuit that is equipped with circuit-breaker protection. The breaker cuts off current if there is a short or overload on the electrical circuit supplying power.
Most smaller and portable washing machines will use ordinary 120-V service. Washing machines do not typically need special electrical hookups, but some large household appliances do require 240-V outlets. Most electric stoves and dryers and some washing machines require the higher voltage to operate. If your washing machine requires 240 V to operate, your outlet will need to be wired for that voltage level and have a plug configuration that matches your washing machine's power plug.