1 The retainer is based on an estimate of the number of hours of work that will be required; it might be $500-$2,000 for a simple project or $3,000-$10,000 or more for a complicated and time-consuming situation. 1 Depending on the type of work done, the location and whether the case requires one investigator, two or more, the hourly rate can vary $40-$300 an hour but typically averages about $50-$100 an hour.
The cost of hiring a private investigator varies widely based on such factors as: 1  Investigation services desired. 2  Number of investigators needed for your particular case. 3  Geographic location. 4  Risk involved. 5  Amount of time required. 6  Specialized equipment. 7  Miscellaneous costs involved (travel, special reports, etc.). The cost of hiring a private investigator can vary widely based on the experience level of the private investigator. A private eye with an extensive career involving military or government intelligence, or a career in law enforcement will tend to be more expensive than someone just getting into the business.
1 A straightforward domestic infidelity case that is easily resolved might cost $500-$1,500, but could be $2,000-$5,000 or more; a criminal defense investigation that takes 25 to 50 hours might cost $1,000-$6,000 or more; and a complicated search for a birth parent or an adoptive child might be $5,000-$10,000. 1 Depending on the type of work done, the location and whether the case requires one investigator, two or more, the hourly rate can vary $40-$300 an hour but typically averages about $50-$100 an hour.
This Site Might Help You. RE: how much does a private investigator cost for a spouse whos cheating? I&#39;m suspcious of my spouse. How much does a private investigator cost? what exactly do they do? if she is, she is doing a dam good job of it. Do they go into emails, stuff like that? is it worth the money?
You might already know what you need but please do call 0141 548 8055 (Glasgow) or 07525 047007 (24 hours) because based on our experience we’re often able to offer a more cost effective solution than you may realise. The cost per investigator depends on the time of day. The cost of every investigation is different and will depend upon a number of factors including: 1  The number of investigators required. 2  When the investigation takes place (daytime, evening or through the night). 3  The need for any special equipment. 
1 Private investigators typically charge an hourly rate plus expenses. 2  Depending on the type of work done, the location and whether the case requires one investigator, two or more, the hourly rate can vary $40-$300 an hour but typically averages about $50-$100 an hour. 1
If you haven’t tried tips in How to Find Someone on the Internet, go ahead, we will wait …. For a first phase, we charge a $750 flat fee (plus tax if applicable). This covers our time and effort, database costs and any other costs associated with finding the person during the first phase. Final Thought. We have outlined some general guidelines as to how much it would cost to find a person. We haven’t covered everything here, so if you have some additional questions, feel free to set up a time to talk to an expert in finding people.
But you are stuck. Every lead you have found has ended up a dead end. So now you are considering getting some professional help and may just want to hire a private investigator. Of course, one of the questions that everyone has when they want to hire a private investigator is how much does it cost to find a person. Final Thought. We have outlined some general guidelines as to how much it would cost to find a person. We haven’t covered everything here, so if you have some additional questions, feel free to set up a time to talk to an expert in finding people.
Based on that, it can cost anywhere from a couple of hundred dollars, to thousands of dollars for extremely difficult to find witnesses or people that don’t necessarily want to be found. One final thought – the less information that you start with, more likely than not, the more expensive it will be. If you want to get a better idea on the cost, visit our post: How Much Does It Cost To Find a Person. Filed Under: Legal Investigation. It’s safe to say that by the time a private investigator has received a request to find the person, it’s not going to be as easy as checking the phonebook or “googling” the person’s name.