A rootkit is a type of malicious software that is activated each time your system boots up. Rootkits are difficult to detect because they are activated before your system's Operating System has completely booted up. 
'Malware' is an umbrella term used to refer to a variety of forms of hostile or intrusive software, including computer viruses, worms, trojan horses, ransomware, spyware, adware, scareware, and other malicious programs. It can take the form of executable code, scripts, active content, and other software. Malware, short for malicious software, is any software used to disrupt computer operation, gather sensitive information, or gain access to private computer systems.
Rootkit installation can be automated, or an attacker can install it once they've obtained root or Administrator access. Obtaining this access is a result of direct attack on a system (i.e.), exploiting a known vulnerability (such as privilege escalation) or a password (obtained by cracking or social engineering). Manual removal of a rootkit is often too difficult for a typical computer user, but a number of security-software vendors offer tools to automatically detect and remove some rootkits, typically as part of an antivirus suite.
Rootkits are not necessarily malicious, but they may hide malicious activities. Attackers may be able to access information, monitor your actions, modify programs, or perform other functions on your computer without being detected. Botnet is a term derived from the idea of bot networks. Unfortunately, if there is a rootkit on your computer or an attacker is using your computer in a botnet, you may not know it. Even if you do discover that you are a victim, it is difficult for the average user to effectively recover.
Rootkit Protection. Many rootkits penetrate computer systems by piggybacking with software you trust or with a virus. You can safeguard your system from rootkits by ensuring it is kept patched against known vulnerabilities. This includes patches of your OS, applications and up-to-date virus definitions. A rootkit is a clandestine computer program designed to provide continued privileged access to a computer while actively hiding its presence. The term rootkit is a connection of the two words root and kit.. Originally, a rootkit was a collection of tools that enabled administrator-level access to a computer or network
Rootkit detection is difficult because a rootkit may be able to subvert the software that is intended to find it. Detection methods include using an alternative and trusted operating system, behavioral-based methods, signature scanning, difference scanning, and memory dump analysis. Manual removal of a rootkit is often too difficult for a typical computer user, but a number of security-software vendors offer tools to automatically detect and remove some rootkits, typically as part of an antivirus suite.
Rootkits. Malware authors use rootkits to hide malware on your PC. Malware hidden by rootkits often monitor, filter, and steal your data or abuse your computer’s resources, such as using your PC for bitcoin mining. For example, if you were to ask your PC to list all of the programs that are running, the rootkit might stealthily remove any programs it doesn’t want you to know about. In other words, rootkits are all about hiding things. They want to hide themselves on your PC, and they want to hide malicious activity
However, most of the media attention given to rootkits is aimed at malicious or illegal rootkits used by attackers or spies to infiltrate and monitor systems. But, while a rootkit might somehow be installed on a system through the use of a virus or Trojan of some sort, the rootkit itself is not really malware. Most users are familiar with common threats such as viruses, worms, spyware and even phishing scams. But, many computer users may think you're talking about a gardening product to fertilize your flowers or kill the weeds if you mention a rootkit.
The term rootkit is a concatenation of root (the traditional name of the privileged account on Unix-like operating systems) and the word kit (which refers to the software components that implement the tool). Manual removal of a rootkit is often too difficult for a typical computer user, but a number of security-software vendors offer tools to automatically detect and remove some rootkits, typically as part of an antivirus suite.