1 Raceme-an elongate, unbranched, indeterminate inflorescence with pedicelled flowers. 2  Panicle-a branched raceme. 3  Corymb-a flat-topped raceme with elongate pedicels reaching the same level. 4  Compound Corymb-a branched corymb. 5  Umbel-a flat-topped or rounded inflorescence with the pedicels originating from a common point. 1 Compound Corymb-a branched corymb. 2  Umbel-a flat-topped or rounded inflorescence with the pedicels originating from a common point. 3  Umbels can be determinate or indeterminate. 4  Compound Umbel-a branched umbel, with primary rays arising from a common point, and secondary umbels arising from the tip of the primary rays.
1 Spikelet-a small spike, characteristic of grasses and sedges. 2  Raceme-an elongate, unbranched, indeterminate inflorescence with pedicelled flowers. 3  Panicle-a branched raceme. 4  Corymb-a flat-topped raceme with elongate pedicels reaching the same level. 5  Compound Corymb-a branched corymb. 1 Compound Corymb-a branched corymb. 2  Umbel-a flat-topped or rounded inflorescence with the pedicels originating from a common point. 3  Umbels can be determinate or indeterminate. 4  Compound Umbel-a branched umbel, with primary rays arising from a common point, and secondary umbels arising from the tip of the primary rays.
Spike: Unbranched inflorescence with sessile flowers (no pedicels). Raceme: Unbranched inflorescence with flowers on pedicels. Panicle: A branched or compound raceme (i.e. main rachis with branches bearing flowers on pedicels). Corymb: Flat-topped inflorescence with youngest flowers at the end of main axis or rachis. Cyme: Flat-topped inflorescence with oldest flowers at the end of main axis.
Any flower in an inflorescence may be referred to as a floret, especially when the individual flowers are particularly small and borne in a tight cluster, such as in a pseudanthium. The fruiting stage of an inflorescence is known as an infructescence. Inflorescences may be simple (single) or complex (panicle). Indeterminate and determinate inflorescences are sometimes referred to as open and closed inflorescences respectively. In an indeterminate inflorescence there is no true terminal flower and the stem usually has a rudimentary end.
1 A spike is a type of raceme with flowers that do not have a pedicel. 2  A racemose corymb is an unbranched, indeterminate inflorescence that is flat-topped or convex due to their outer pedicels which are progressively longer than inner ones. Indeterminate and determinate inflorescences are sometimes referred to as open and closed inflorescences respectively. In an indeterminate inflorescence there is no true terminal flower and the stem usually has a rudimentary end.
1 In determinate inflorescence the terminal axis is with a flower. 2  In this type of inflorescence the youngest flowers are found on the bottom of an elongated axis or on the outside of a truncated axis. 3  During the flower time, the apical meristem produces a flowering bud arresting the growth of the peduncle. Inflorescence Definition. Inflorescence is defined as the a cluster or group of flowers arranged on a stem which composes of a main branch or a complicated arrangement of branches. Inflorescence is basically the part of the shoot of flowering plants where the flowers formed are modified accordingly.
Example: Onion. 1  In determinate inflorescence the terminal axis is with a flower. 2  In this type of inflorescence the youngest flowers are found on the bottom of an elongated axis or on the outside of a truncated axis. Inflorescence Definition. Inflorescence is defined as the a cluster or group of flowers arranged on a stem which composes of a main branch or a complicated arrangement of branches. Inflorescence is basically the part of the shoot of flowering plants where the flowers formed are modified accordingly.
An inflorescence is a group or cluster of flowers arranged on a stem that is composed of a main branch or a complicated arrangement of branches. Morphologically, it is the part of the shoot of seed plants where flowers are formed and which is accordingly modified. Indeterminate and determinate inflorescences are sometimes referred to as open and closed inflorescences respectively. In an indeterminate inflorescence there is no true terminal flower and the stem usually has a rudimentary end.
corymb. n. 1. (Botany) an inflorescence in the form of a flat-topped flower cluster with the oldest flowers at the periphery. This type of raceme occurs in the candytuft. Noun. 1. corymb-flat-topped or convex inflorescence in which the individual flower stalks grow upward from various points on the main stem to approximately the same height; outer flowers open first. inflorescence-the flowering part of a plant or arrangement of flowers on a stalk.