Nerve damage and the nerve pain and symptoms associated can occur when your nerve is pinched or entrapped. Your pinched nerve usually occurs as a result of injury to structures adjacent to the nerve. The best known pinched nerve would be the sciatic nerve. 
For example, chest, back, shoulders. Your muscle gets stretched and injured when you strain your muscle or the group of muscles too much. In this way, the small fibers tend to tear. When it comes to the pinched nerve, when tissues in a specific area gets pressured too much. It, then goes down and extend the nerve and causing pain.
A pinched nerve typically feels like a tingling sensation that worsens to raw pain for several minutes. Regularly, a pinched nerve is not visible, unlike the swelling of a stretched muscle. Differences of pain between a pinched nerve and a pulled muscle. Nerve pain.  1  burning.  2  stabbing.  3  radiant tingling sensation.
A pinched nerve is easier to get than a pulled muscle. After all, as the name implies, it’s easy to have a nerve pinched in any part of your body. Aside from awkward positions, pinched nerves can also develop if you don’t shift body positions when you’re sitting or lying down for long periods. Crossing your legs for a long time is one of the common triggers of a pinched nerve. A pulled muscle can’t occur without strenuous activity that causes you to overextend your muscles. Simply lying down or walking around won’t cause you to stretch a muscle.
It also occurs when the nerves are squeezed and then causing a pain along the nerve. A tingling sensation may result from a pinched nerve. Unlike a pulled muscle, a pinched nerve is not always visible on the screen. To work while standing or sitting on a wrong position is a trigger of a pulled muscle. A pulled muscle often occurs in a group of muscles that are located on the shoulders, chest, and back.
Radiculopathy is radiating pain (down a leg or arm) Radiculopathy is usually caused by a 'pinched nerve' in the spinal column. A 'slipped' (bulging) disc or 'herniated' (ruptured) disc can both cause radiculopathy. A bulging disc can be treated with thearapy and anti-immflamitory drugs. So that is the typical Disc pinch nerve. However if for example you are into exercise, you might pull, tear or cause any muscle to inflame, or if you like swell. At that point the inflammation can cause a pinched nerve! Its a bit like putting your fingers into a Bowling Ball.
Cold and hot therapy (compression) usually heals a pinched nerve quicker than a muscle pull. Pain for a pulled muscle can be several days. A pulled muscle swells immediately and is tender to the touch. It is relative to major muscle of the anatomy like the back, chest, and shoulders. A muscle group is over-stretched causing micro-fiber tear. Consequentially, a dull pain is relative to a micro-tear. Contrarily, a pinched nerve is tissue pressured excessively in one area. Regularly, a pinched nerve is not visible, unlike the swelling of a stretched muscle. Differences of pain between a pinched nerve and a pulled muscle. Nerve pain.  1  burning.  2  stabbing.  3  radiant tingling sensation.
Most of the back pain that I see in my office is due to one of two things: muscle strain or a pinched nerve. Muscle strain. Muscles run along the spinal column on both sides. A pulled muscle in the low back (a lumbar strain) causes pain in the muscles to the right or the left of the spine in the low back (or both). 
What is a Muscle Strain. Definition of a muscle strain : A strain is an injury to a muscle or tendon in which the muscle fibres tear as a result of over-stretching. Remember a Strain is NOT a Sprain. You strain a muscle but you sprain a ligament. A muscle strain is also commonly known as a pulled muscle
A pinched nerve and a pulled muscle are two common conditions that come together in any list of differential diagnoses for a localized pain. Differences between these two are of utmost importance to the clinician as well as the patient because the treatment protocols and follow up care differ in many critical ways. Pinched nerve is a condition where a sensory nerve gets trapped between two segments of tissue. The pressure exerted on the nerve stimulates it. Nervous signals go up the nerve to the brain along the spinal cord to give the sensation of pain arising from the area the nerve innervates.