1 If there is no click at first, move the weight away from the head of the wrench until you hear a click. 2  Make a tentative mark and repeat to make sure the spot is correct. 3  You can make your mark more definitive after two or more checks land in the same spot.
If a click from the tool is heard, lift the weight and slowly move it toward the wrench head until the clicking stops. Make a tentative mark and repeat the step to make sure the spot is correct. 1  If there is no click at first, move the weight away from the head of the wrench until you hear a click.
In order to test a torque wrench, operate the wrench until a click is heard. Learn about tool calibration with help from a general contractor in this free video on using shop tools. Part of the Video Series: Shop Tools.
This graph shows three tests of a Harbor Freight 1⁄2-inch clicker torque wrench that Cornerstone performed over a period of 60 days. Test 1 is the original test that shows the wrench varied between 69 and 70.3 lb-ft. Test 2 shows what happened to accuracy after leaving the wrench at the 70 ft-lb setting for 30 days.
He offered to keep our Harbor Freight 1⁄2-inch clicker wrench and test it every 30 days for two months while keeping the wrench loaded at 70 lb-ft. He said the problem with clicker torque wrenches is, when the mechanic fails to return the preload to its lowest setting after each use, the tool begins to lose accuracy.
This is the simplest way to test a torque wrench with no special tools just: a. Torque wrench (Tekton 2432 1/4). b. Bolt to anchor it (used a bolt on the bike frame). c. 2 empty gallon jugs (or some other known weight). d. hook to attach weight (here I used a coat hanger and an S hook.).
This graph shows three tests of a Harbor Freight 1⁄2-inch clicker torque wrench that Cornerstone performed over a period of 60 days. Test 1 is the original test that shows the wrench varied between 69 and 70.3 lb-ft. Test 2 shows what happened to accuracy after leaving the wrench at the 70 ft-lb setting for 30 days. Notice how the curve retains its repeatability but is down an average of 2.6 lb-ft. Test 3 is the same wrench after 60 days. Note how the spring in the wrench has relaxed, which has not only leveled out the testing but reduced its accuracy down to an average loss of 4.4 lb-ft. As the chart shows, the wrench now torques to roughly 65.5 with a setting of 70 lb-ft.