To understand why your neck lymph nodes are enlarged, you should understand the inner working of your lymphatic system. Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped glands that are located in various locations throughout your body. These are receiving sites of the lymphatic system, where fluids trap viruses, bacteria and foreign substances. The rule of thumb is, you don t need to see a doctor if you have enlarged lymph nodes on the neck that accompany a slight cold, wait for 3 or 4 days before seeing a doctor. In very rare cases, the enlarged nodes are a sign of lymphoma, or blood cancer that affects lymphocyte, a type of white blood cell.
Other symptoms may include hoarseness, difficulty swallowing, swollen glands, difficulty breathing, pain in the throat or neck, or a cough that is not due to a cold. Learn more about thyroid cancer. Parathyroid Tumors. The parathyroid is a small gland located at the base of the front of the neck, near the thyroid. The thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland located in the front of the neck below the larynx (voice box). The thyroid is part of the endocrine system, which makes hormones that help regulate metabolism (the body’s transformation of food into energy), blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and other functions.
Lymph nodes found in your neck are called cervical lymph nodes. There are about three hundreds lymph nodes in your neck area and they are classified in different ways. The enlarged lymph nodes are mostly the superficial types, those that are located directly under your skin. The rule of thumb is, you don t need to see a doctor if you have enlarged lymph nodes on the neck that accompany a slight cold, wait for 3 or 4 days before seeing a doctor. In very rare cases, the enlarged nodes are a sign of lymphoma, or blood cancer that affects lymphocyte, a type of white blood cell.
c) Parathyroid gland: Produces parathormone. Both thyroid and parathyroid glands are examples for types of glands in the neck. d) Adrenal gland: located on the two kidneys. It has outer cortex and inner medulla regions. credit;estrellamountain.edu. 1  Cortex: secretes gluco-corticoids and mineralo-corticoids. 1. Exocrine glands: They secrete into a location or region of the body through a duct and their secretions are called enzymes mostly while some are non enzymes. Types of exocrine glands and their secretions include. 1  Salivary gland: In the buccal cavity secrete saliva. 2  This saliva has many functions.
Head and neck cancers can also begin in the salivary glands, but salivary gland cancers are relatively uncommon. Salivary glands contain many different types of cells that can become cancerous, so there are many different types of salivary gland cancer. Tobacco and alcohol use are not risk factors for salivary gland cancers. Infection with cancer-causing types of human papillomavirus (HPV), especially HPV-16, is a risk factor for some types of head and neck cancers, particularly oropharyngeal cancers that involve the tonsils or the base of the tongue (9 – 11).
The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped organ made of mostly glandular tissue and located in the base of the neck.... Click to read more below. The thyroid gland and parathyroid glands are a group of endocrine glands located in the base of the neck. These glands play a vital role in maintaining the body’s homeostasis by producing hormones that regulate the body’s metabolism and free calcium levels. 
Besides these glands, there are many tiny glands called minor salivary glands located in your lips, inner cheek area (buccal mucosa), and extensively in other linings of your mouth and throat. Salivary glands produce the saliva used to moisten your mouth, initiate digestion, and help protect your teeth from decay. If your doctor suspects an obstruction of the major salivary glands, it may be necessary to anesthetize the opening of the salivary ducts in the mouth, and probe and dilate the duct to help an obstructive stone pass. Before these procedures, dental x-rays may show where the calcified stones are located.
In this article. Your throat is sore, your head hurts, and you feel absolutely miserable. Upon hearing this, the first thing your health care provider will probably do is check for swollen lymph nodes, or  swollen glands .. Swollen glands are a sign that your body is battling an infection or another type of illness. You're probably already familiar with the lymph nodes in your neck, but there are hundreds of other lymph nodes scattered throughout your body. Other areas where you may be able to feel swollen lymph nodes include: 1  Behind the ears. 2  Under the jaw. 3  Lower part of the back of the head. 4  Armpits. 5  Groin.
These lymph nodes are the structures in the upper neck that often become tender during a common sore throat. In fact, many of these lymph nodes are actually located on, within, and deep in the substance of the parotid gland or near the submandibular glands. If your doctor suspects an obstruction of the major salivary glands, it may be necessary to anesthetize the opening of the salivary ducts in the mouth, and probe and dilate the duct to help an obstructive stone pass. Before these procedures, dental x-rays may show where the calcified stones are located.