Jehovah's Witnesses (WTS) opposition to blood transfusions Biblical passages.Opposition to WTS policies. Sponsored link. Jehovah's Witness' beliefs and teachings about blood: The Jehovah's Witnesses urges its members to refuse to accept blood transfusions and to not allow them to be given to their children. This is primarily based upon four passages in the Bible which they interpret as prohibiting the consuming of blood: 1  Genesis 9:4  But flesh (meat) with...blood...ye shall not eat .
When we lose our life because we refuse inoculations, that does not bear witness as a justification of Jehovah's name. God never issued regulations which prohibit the use of drugs, inoculations or blood transfusions. It is an invention of people, who, like the Pharisees, leave Jehovah's mercy and love aside. Young adults also showed a willingness to accept blood transfusions. In another study, Jehovah's Witness patients presented for labor and delivery showed a willingness to accept some form of blood or blood products. Of these patients, 10 percent accepted whole blood transfusion.
References. 1. It's important to note that Jehovah's Witnesses may argue that they shun members who have a blood transfusion. Here's why. 1  They are not allowed to read the official Watchtower rules. 2  They're trying to protect the Watchtower. 3  See 'Theocratic Lying'. JW's believe they are showing respect for blood by refusing blood transfusions. However they are not showing respect for human life, God, and Jesus
Question: Why do Jehovah's Witnesses refuse blood transfusions?. Answer: Acts 15:19-21, 28 is the Scripture Jehovah's Witnesses typically point to as the reason they refuse to accept blood donations. Acts 15:20 says, Instead we should write to them, telling them to abstain from food polluted by idols, from sexual immorality, from the meat of strangled animals and from blood.. What is the best way to evangelize someone who is in a cult or false religion? Return to: Questions about Cults and Religions Return to: GotQuestions.org Home
Jehovah's Witness' b eliefs and teachings about blood: The Jehovah's Witnesses urges its members to refuse to accept blood transfusions and to not allow them to be given to their children. This is primarily based upon four passages in the Bible which they interpret as prohibiting the consuming of blood: 1  Genesis 9:4  But flesh (meat) with...blood...ye shall not eat .
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Bible prohibits the eating of blood. They believe that injecting blood into their veins is the same thing as eating it. Jehovah's Witnesses don't want to die, but they are willing to make the ultimate sacrifice if necessary. JW's believe they are showing respect for blood by refusing blood transfusions. However they are not showing respect for human life, God, and Jesus
The banning of blood transfusions is not the only medical stipulation that the Jehovah’s Witness religion has misapplied Scripture to support its unique views. The Watchtower Society once condemned vaccinations as a “devilish practice” and organ transplants as a “cannibalistic” practice. However, I am curious why Jehovah’s Witnesses refuse blood transfusions. I am aware of the verse in the Bible that talks about not eating blood, but can you explain how eating blood refers to blood transfusions? I have also heard that Jehovah’s Witnesses used to ban vaccinations and organ transplants.
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Bible prohibits ingesting blood and that Christians should not accept blood transfusions or donate or store their own blood for transfusion. The belief is based on an interpretation of scripture that differs from that of other Christian denominations. Young adults also showed a willingness to accept blood transfusions. In another study, Jehovah's Witness patients presented for labor and delivery showed a willingness to accept some form of blood or blood products. Of these patients, 10 percent accepted whole blood
Jehovah's Witnesses do not consume, donate or transfuse blood, because God Himself consistently made it clear for humans to abstain from blood. God began with commanding Noah and his family to abstain from blood. 
Jehovah's Witnesses refuse to accept blood transfusions because they say blood represents life, and only God is the giver of life. That belief has led to scores of controversies, many of which have ended up before judges. The new mother, a Jehovah's Witness, reportedly died after refusing a blood transfusion when she developed an infection. Homerton chiefs have launched an independent review of the tragic case, which was one of four new mothers' deaths at the hospital in nine months.