Lignans in Depth Lignans occur in a number of plant foods, but flax-seed is a particularly rich source (lignans are not to be confused with lignins, a type of insoluble fiber). Lignans, along with isoflavones and coumestans, comprise the three major classes of phytoestrogens (plant estrogens).
The seeds come from flax, one of the oldest fiber crops in the world-known to have been cultivated in ancient Egypt and China. Flaxseed is a source of healthy fat, antioxidants, and fiber; modern research has found evidence to suggest that flaxseed can also help lower the risk of diabetes, cancer, and heart disease.
Flaxseed is the seed of the flax plant, which is believed to have originated in Egypt. It grows throughout Canada and Northwestern United States. Flaxseed oil comes from flaxseeds. The most common folk or traditional use of flaxseed is as a laxative; it is also used for hot flashes and breast pain.
Recent studies have suggested that flaxseed may have a protective effect against breast cancer, prostate cancer, and colon cancer. At least two of the components in flaxseed seem to contribute, says Kelley C. Fitzpatrick, director of health and nutrition with the Flax Council of Canada.
Mackerel, salmon, and walnuts are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Flaxseed oil contains only ALA, not the fiber or lignans found in the flaxseed. Other plants that contain ALA include canola (rapeseed), soybean oil, walnuts, and pumpkin seed.
Lignans, which are the type of phytoestrogens in flaxseed, can change estrogen metabolism. In postmenopausal women, lignans can cause the body to produce less active forms of estrogen. This is believed to potentially reduce breast cancer risk.
Answer. To understand potential effects of flaxseed and how they may affect breast cancer, it helps to understand what flaxseeds are, and why some consider them a concern for women with a history of breast cancer. Flaxseed and phytoestrogens. Flaxseed is the richest dietary source of lignans, a type of phytoestrogen.
Animal studies have shown that both flaxseed oil and lignans can reduce breast tumor growth and spread, even for ER-cancer cells. This result suggests that flaxseeds may have anti-cancer benefits that are unrelated to any type of effect on estrogen or estrogen metabolism. Phytoestrogens and breast cancer treatment.