The latter terms are more descriptive and will be used throughout this article. Polarity results from the fact that an electrical circuit has a negative and a positive pole. Direct current (DC) flows in one direction, resulting in a constant polarity. Alternating current (AC) flows half the time in one direction and half the time in the other, changing its polarity 120 times per second with 60-hertz current. 
Confidence votes 48. The + and-you see on the end of batteries is the electrical polarity. It refers to the direction of electron flow (more electrons at the-ve end, they flow to the +ve end through the circuit). Electrical circuits need to be checked for polarity prior to energising. To ensure correct polarity it is necessary to ascertain that all single pole switching and protective devices are installed in the live conductor
Electrons flow from the negative pole to the positive pole. In a direct current (DC) circuit, one pole is always negative, the other pole is always positive and the electrons flow in one direction only. The frequency of alternating current is 50 or 60 Hz, varying by country, meaning that this equipotential occurs 100 or 120 times per second, respectively. In the US, national standards call for the hot side of the line to be a black wire, or in the case of 120-240 VAC, the second hot wire (2nd phase) is to be red.
Reverse polarity is a term that describes an electrical condition in which the hot wire is connected to the terminal on the receptacle intended for the neutral wire and the neutral wire is connected to the terminal on the receptacle intended for the hot wire. An electrical device will typically operate when plugged into a receptacle outlet with reverse polarity. However, any on/off switch for the device will close and open the circuit through the neutral wiring instead of the hot wiring. This increases the potential for electrical shock to users of the device.
Part of the Smart grid glossary: Also see bipolar signaling and unipolar signaling. Polarity is a term used in electricity, magnetism, and electronic signaling. Suppose there is a constant voltage, also called an electric potential or electromotive force (EMF), between two objects or points. In such a situation, one of the objects or points (poles) has more electrons than the other. The pole with relatively more electrons is said to have negative polarity; the other is assigned positive polarity. If the two poles are connected by a conductive path such as a wire, electron s flow from the negative pole toward the positive pole. This flow of charge carriers constitutes an electric current.
In the realm of electronics, polarity indicates whether a circuit component is symmetric or not. A non-polarized component – a part without polarity – can be connected in any direction and still function the way it’s supposed to function. 
Electrical Polarity Question#1: I need your help on something. I know what reverse polarity is – when a receptacle is wired with the hot and neutral wire feeds attached to the opposite screws that they should be attached to. 1 Circuit Wires and Polarity. 2  The hot wire of a 120 volt circuit is an ungrounded conductor while the neutral wire is a grounded conductor, both being current carrying conductors which is why they are insulated.
1 This is because there is a specific polarity that is needed for the specific circuit components. 2  Circuit Wires and Polarity. 3  The hot wire of a 120 volt circuit is an ungrounded conductor while the neutral wire is a grounded conductor, both being current carrying conductors which is why they are insulated. 1 Circuit Wires and Polarity. 2
When a lamp or light fixture is connected with proper polarity, the hot wire connects to a contact at the bottom inside center of the bulb socket or screw-in base, and the neutral wire is connected to the shell that contacts the sides of the bulb when it is inserted and screwed into the socket. The hot and neutral wires must be connected to the proper terminals on the electrical receptacle. [Click to enlarge any image]. 1  The hot or live black wire (or red wire) should be connected to the brass-colored screw terminal on the electrical receptacle, usually marked BLACK or HOT.