Example: Limited liability is provided to stockholders in a corporation and limited partners of a limited partnership. Those parties cannot lose more than they contribute to the corporation, unless they agree to become personally liable. Limited liability is provided to stockholders of a corporation and limited partners of a limited partnership. Those parties cannot lose more than they contribute to the corporation or partnership
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The liability of the stockholders is limited up to the shares applied and allotted to them If the share is not fully paid and in case of liquidation they are liable to pay the uncalled amount also, if required. Source(s): smahadevan39 · 4 years ago. Thumbs up. 
A shareholder in a limited company is not personally liable for any of the debts of the company, other than for the value of their investment in that company. This usually takes the form of that person's dividends in the company being zero, since the company has no profits to allocate. The same is true for the members of a limited liability partnership and the limited partners in a limited partnership.
Types. A shareholder's limited liability extends to different aspects of a corporation's operations. A shareholder is not personally responsible for taxes of the corporation. In addition, a shareholder is not personally responsible for damages to a third party as the result of the corporation's operations. Related Reading: How to Convert an S-Corporation to a Limited Liability Company. Absent shareholder limited liability, obtaining investors for a corporation becomes a significant challenge. Second, limited liability protects the personal assets of a shareholder from claims made against
The corporation is a separate legal entity that is owned by stockholders. A general corporation may have an unlimited number of stockholders that, due to the separate legal nature of the corporation, are protected from the creditors of the business. A stockholder's personal liability is usually limited to the amount of investment in the corporation and no more. Advantages. 1  Owners' personal assets are protected from business debt and liability. 2  Corporations have unlimited life extending beyond the illness or death of the owners. 
Although a shareholder's liability for the company's actions is limited, the shareholders may still be liable for their own acts. For example, the directors of small companies (who are frequently also shareholders) are often required to give personal guarantees of the company's debts to those lending to the company. This usually takes the form of that person's dividends in the company being zero, since the company has no profits to allocate. The same is true for the members of a limited liability partnership and the limited partners in a limited partnership.
Limited liability is where a person's financial liability is limited to a fixed sum, most commonly the value of a person's investment in a company or partnership. This usually takes the form of that person's dividends in the company being zero, since the company has no profits to allocate. The same is true for the members of a limited liability partnership and the limited partners in a limited
The Liability of Stockholders to the Creditors of a Corporation. Owning stock does not, in itself, imply that the shareholder is responsible for the company's debt. Legally and logically, there is a great gulf between the stockholder of a company as a person and the company as a legal and economic entity. The company is responsible for all debt that is contracted in its name. Therefore, the stockholders cannot be held personally liable for these debts, though the percentage of the company they own might decrease in value. In that case, they are indirectly affected by debt.
First, by protecting shareholders from liability for the acts of the corporation, individuals are willing to invest in the enterprise. Absent shareholder limited liability, obtaining investors for a corporation becomes a significant challenge. Second, limited liability protects the personal assets of a shareholder from claims made against the corporation.
one that does not go beyond the owner’s investment in a business. A corporation and limited partner enjoy this particular feature. The stockholders of a corporation usually have limited liability; they risk only their investment in the business. Sole proprietorship and general partners have unlimited liability. Limited liability is provided to stockholders of a corporation and limited partners of a limited partnership. Those parties cannot lose more than they contribute to the corporation or partnership unless they agree to become personally liable.