2) There is butter, clarified butter/ghee, and high vitamin butter oil. Butter is fat precipitated from milk. Further processing can yield clarified butter/ghee, which is butter that has been rendered to remove residual water and milk solids. My understanding is that the high vitamin butter oil (HVBO) has been centrifuged to separate the vitamins (in particular K2-MK4) from most of the fats. The result is a vitamin dense concentration one can use as a dietary supplement. The criticism is that HVBO has not been assayed as to actual vitamin content.
Butter is a solid dairy product made by churning fresh or fermented cream or milk, to separate the butterfat from the buttermilk. It is generally used as a spread on plain or toasted bread products and a condiment on cooked vegetables, as well as in cooking, such as baking, sauce making, and pan frying. Commercial butter is about 80% butterfat and 15% water; traditionally made butter may have as little as 65% fat and 30% water. Butterfat is a mixture of triglyceride, a tri ester derived from glycerol and three of any of several fatty acid groups.
X-FACTOR™ Gold High Vitamin Butter Oil-Butter Pecan. Click here for full information. This High-Vitamin Butter Oil is extracted from dairy milk produced by cows that graze exclusively on specially selected rapidly growing grass. 
Salt, flavorings and preservatives are sometimes added to butter. Rendering butter produces clarified butter or ghee, which is almost entirely butterfat. Butter is a water-in-oil emulsion resulting from an inversion of the cream, an oil-in-water emulsion; the milk proteins are the emulsifiers. Butter remains a solid when refrigerated, but softens to a spreadable consistency at room temperature, and melts to a thin liquid consistency at 32–35 °C (90–95 °F). Commercial butter is about 80% butterfat and 15% water; traditionally made butter may have as little as 65% fat and 30% water. Butterfat is a mixture of triglyceride, a tri ester derived from glycerol and three of any of several fatty acid groups.
A. Our butter oil is made using only 100% unpasteurized milk that has only been heated to 96 degrees F for bottling purposes. The cows are totally grassfed so the butter oil is very yellow. It is five times more nutrient-dense than butter. Non-Gelatin Capsules-For those who prefer to take their butter oil in capsule form, this is simply butter oil with unbleached beeswax added as a thickener. Capsules are made from plant cellulose. Butter Pecan Liquid-Delicious and nutritious! Consists simply of butter oil and organic butter pecan flavor oil.
What is X-Factor Gold?X-Factor Gold is 100% butter oil, the most nutrient dense part of milk, cream and butter. It is made from 100% grass-fed cow's milk, and it takes 16 lbs. of cream to make 1 lb of butter oil. That's concentrated! (regular butter, on the other hand, is made from cream in approximately 3:1 ratio.) X-Factor Gold Butter Oil is made by centrifuging (not heating) cream until the oil separates from the milk solids and whey.
Furthermore, it does not have such a large quotient of saturated fats like butter, in fact butter oil has over 60% unsaturated fats and 10% omega-3 fats, making it extremely healthy. You can pretty much replace all the oils and fats in your kitchen with this oil. One can use it to bake, roast, for salads or even on bread instead of butter or margarine. You can clearly smell and taste the buttery aroma. The oil is produced by adding a synthetic blend of naturally identical flavoring substances. If anyone has reference or knows where to find butter oil in your home country, or simply has more information on it, leave your comments in the comments section of this post. Look forward to your views. Meeta has a passion for food and fresh organic ingredients.
Research shows that butter oil and cod liver oil, taken together, provide complementary factors leading to proper essential fatty acid balance. High-vitamin butter oil contains arachidonic acid (AA), an omega-6 fatty acid, while cod liver oil is rich in eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), an omega-3. Non-Gelatin Capsules-For those who prefer to take their butter oil in capsule form, this is simply butter oil with unbleached beeswax added as a thickener. Capsules are made from plant cellulose. Butter Pecan Liquid-Delicious and nutritious! Consists simply of butter oil and organic butter pecan flavor oil.