1 Add 9oz lye slowly to 23oz water (never water to lye) outside – even in the winter. 2  Never combine in your house! 3  Do not breathe fumes! 4  Cool to 100 degrees F. 5  Add lye water to oils and mix with a hand or stick mixer until it begins to thicken (on 5min. off 5 -10 min.). 6  Add Raw Honey and essential oils and mix.
Once lye has completely dissolved, the milk should be around 50-65° F. If you’d like, add sodium lactate to the lye mixture at a rate of 1 tsp. per pound of oils. It helps the soap pop out of the mold faster, and creates a harder, longer-lasting bar of soap. Stir thoroughly to mix in the sodium lactate.
Put all that into a lye calculator to figure out your lye and water amounts. For a 4-pound batch, use 6.23 oz. of lye and 14.50 oz. of water. Let the lye-water and oils cool more than usual before mixing – some people recommend letting them cool to quite a bit below 100F. At light trace, add about 3 tbsp of honey.
Some soap makers will add the milk and honey to the lye solution itself and then pour the entire mixture into the soap making oils. I, however, do not like that method. Unfortunately, if you add the honey directly to the lye solution, the sugars in the honey can cause the solution to volcano and overflow.
Make sure it's completely dissolved before adding the lye. (You can also add salt to the water at this point too.) This is the easiest method, though sometimes the heat of the lye solution will begin to caramelize the sugar a bit, and turn the sugar water a bit of a beige color. Not quite like the orange color you get with goat's milk soap, but for the same reason.
There are also melt and pour bases with honey in them like Honey Melt and Pour Base. You can add honey to just about any basic cold process soap recipe. (Or create your own recipe from scratch.
Next, measure out your distilled water portion into a heat and chemical safe container. To create our lye solution for this honey soap recipe, we will need exactly 15 ounces of distilled water. Remember to measure out your water portion using weight ounces, not liquid ounces. Also, be sure to use distilled water here, not faucet or bottled water.
Use rose water to make your lye solution. Melt your oils together and add 3 teaspoons of the pink oxide olive oil mixture to your oils. Combine lye solution to oils at 90° and bring to a light trace. Add cream and liquid silk, bring to a trace again.