· just now. Report Abuse. I find that Disaronno has the smell and the taste of cherries in syrup, the kind that you get in a jar to put on a Sundae. Of course there is the kick at the end from the alcohol but over all it's delicious. This Site Might Help You. RE: What does Disaronno taste like? is it anything like whisky or anything? keen on buying some but want to know what it tastes like first.
Best Answer: It is the standard one but it is not my favorite (it's a bit too sweet). Disaronno has the majority of the UK market but only a small percentage of the Italian one. Like with all things it's down to personal taste. I prefer Lazzaroni (sp?) amaretto-but it is harder to find. I don't like a lot of hard liquours, and usually stick to rum drinks when I do, but I love Disaronno on the rocks or as a amaretto sour. I also have a shot or 2 straight up when I have a cold and can't sleep. Also wonderful in coffee, over ice cream and in recipes.
Disaronno is an incredibly unique drink. Sweet and warm. It smells and tastes like marzipan. So if you like marzipan, you will love Disaronno. The packaging is also great. Iconic and sophisticated. Disaronno Amaretto liqueur has a long history dating back to 1525. The Italian liqueur was discovered in the Renaissance. 
If you are looking for an alcoholic mixed drink that has no liquor flavor, amaretto and Coke is a good choice. As the sweetness of each ingredient vies for center stage, the resulting taste is unique and surprising. Although no hard evidence exists as to why this phenomenon occurs, mixing amaretto and Coke results in a beverage that tastes like the classic soft drink Dr. Pepper. Mix two ounces of amaretto with four ounces of Coke and add a couple of maraschino cherries.
it tastes of almonds like a good quality marzipan not that cheap and nasty yellow stuff but the good stuff really nice on its own with ice or you could add cola like coca cola with ice and a slice good on a hot summers day oh yes and it is nothing like whiskey/whisky. This Site Might Help You. RE: What does Disaronno taste like? is it anything like whisky or anything? keen on buying some but want to know what it tastes like first.
Amaretto is much like any liqueur, often too sweet and funky, rarely hitting that perfect balance between flavor, sweetness, and alcohol content. It's a fine line to tow. Unfortunately, the market is flooded with liqueurs that are cloyingly sweet and almost unbearable to drink unless heavily mixed and hidden. Disaronno, which used to be called Amaretto di Saronno, is an Italian liqueur. I find it odd that they don't even call it amaretto, but simply an Italian liqueur.. It is reportedly made from a recipe dating to 1525 which includes apricot kernel oil, burnt sugar, and seventeen various herbs and fruits..
Amaretto (Italian for a little bitter) is a sweet, almond-flavoured, Italian liqueur associated with Saronno, Italy. Various commercial brands are made from a base of apricot pits, almonds, or both. Amaretto may be served neat (by itself) or on ice. It is often added to other beverages to create several popular mixed drinks. It is also a popular choice of liqueur to add to coffee in the morning.
The name amaretto originated as a diminutive of the Italian word amaro, meaning bitter, which references the distinctive flavour lent by the mandorla amara (the bitter almond) or by the drupe kernel. Amaretto may be served neat (by itself) or on ice. It is often added to other beverages to create several popular mixed drinks. It is also a popular choice of liqueur to add to coffee in the morning.
Disaronno Originale (28% abv) is a liqueur that is made in Italy. It is amaretto-flavored, with a characteristic bittersweet almond taste. Disaronno claims its originale amaretto's secret formula is unchanged from the year 1525, and claims the Luini tale as its own particular history. Its production remains in Saronno, but the product is sold worldwide. 