There are a few other instances where Original Medicare may cover dental care, but these are best considered rare occurrences and not usual treatment. Examples include, but are not limited to: 1  Your health condition is such that certain dental services require you to be hospitalized to receive the service. Medicare Advantage plans are sold by private insurance companies. If you choose to remain covered by Original Medicare, or can’t find a Medicare Advantage plan in your area that offers dental coverage, you can get private dental insurance either through an insurance agent or an employer.
Medicare doesn't cover most dental care, dental procedures, or supplies, like cleanings, fillings, tooth extractions, dentures, dental plates, or other dental devices. Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) will pay for certain dental services that you get when you're in a hospital. Part A can pay for inpatient hospital care if you need to have emergency or complicated dental procedures, even though the dental care isn't covered. 
Dental coverage through Medicare Advantage plan. You may be able to get dental coverage under some Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Advantage plans (Medicare Part C) can include extra benefits like routine dental, routine vision, and Medicare prescription drug coverage. If you want to be able to combine coverage for routine dental care with other medical and hospital coverage, you can get that with a
Medicare Dental Coverage. Currently, Medicare will pay for dental services that are an integral part either of a covered procedure (e.g., reconstruction of the jaw following accidental injury), or for extractions done in preparation for radiation treatment for neoplastic diseases involving the jaw. The dental exclusion was included as part of the initial Medicare program. In establishing the dental exclusion, Congress did not limit the exclusion to routine dental services, as it did for routine physical checkups or routine foot care, but instead it included a blanket exclusion of dental services.
If you have only Medicare Part B. If you have Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) , you’re considered covered under the health care law and don’t need a Marketplace plan. But having only Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) doesn’t meet this requirement. If you have Medicare. Medicare isn’t part of the Health Insurance Marketplace, so if you have Medicare coverage now you don’t need to do anything. If you have Medicare, you’re considered covered. The Marketplace won’t affect your Medicare choices or benefits. No matter how you get Medicare, whether through Original Medicare or a Medicare Advantage Plan (like an HMO or PPO), you won’t have to make any changes. IMPORTANTThe Marketplace doesn’t offer Medicare supplement (Medigap) insurance or Part D drug plans
Original Medicare generally doesn't cover routine dental services or. dentures. However, some private Medicare health plans do offer dental. coverage. If you have a Medicare health plan, check with your plan to see. what dental services may be covered. You may also want to look into free or reduced-cost dental clinics in your. area run by hospitals, community health centers, and dental schools. However, some private Medicare health plans do offer dental coverage. If you have a Medicare health plan, check with your plan to see what dental services may be covered. You may also want to look into free or reduced-cost dental clinics in your area run by hospitals, community health centers, and dental schools. Visit.
1 Medicare is a health insurance program for people who are 65 years and older or for people with specific disabilities. 2  Medicare dental coverage is limited; it does not cover most routine dental care or dentures. 