If either the door or start switch is faulty, the dryer won't start. Suspect the door switch if it doesn't make a clicking sound when you push it in with your finger. You can troubleshoot either one by checking its continuity with an multimeter. Other Problems. If you can hear a humming sound when you start the dryer, it's possible the drive belt is broken, or the drive motor is faulty. On some models, a broken drive belt automatically prevents the motor from starting, but on others, you still may hear the motor working even though the tumbler isn't turning.
Dryers use a belt connected to a motor to turn the drum. Overtime the belt can wear out or become brittle. If the dryer isn’t tumbling then inspect the belt to see if it is worn or broken. The belt should be flexible and have lots of grip on both sides. On all dryers, the door switch allows the dryer to start tumbling only when the door is closed. If the dryer does not tumble when the door is closed then the door switch may be defective.
by Steve Ash. Repairing a dryer that won't shut off many seem daunting, but fixing your own appliance is actually pretty easy. The toughest part is figuring out what dryer part is the problem. We’ve created a list of the most common parts that can cause a dryer to not shut off. Use this list to diagnose the problem you’re having and then enter your model number into the search box to find the right part for you.
When a clothes dryer won't turn on, the problem often is more difficult to diagnose than it is to fix. A dryer has several electrical components that can fail, cutting power to the motor, the heating element or both. Other Problems. If you can hear a humming sound when you start the dryer, it's possible the drive belt is broken, or the drive motor is faulty. On some models, a broken drive belt automatically prevents the motor from starting, but on others, you still may hear the motor working even though the tumbler isn't turning.
Turn off the dryer and unplug the power cord from the wall outlet. Pull your dryer away from the wall enough that you can work behind the dryer. Loosen the screws on the clamp that secures the dryer vent duct to the back of the dryer with a Phillips head screwdriver. Remove the dryer vent duct off the exhaust port. Place the lint screen back into the dryer and plug the dryer power cord into the wall outlet. Push the dryer back into its working location. Open the dryer door and locate the moisture sensor for your dryer, if your dryer uses a moisture sensor. The moisture sensor will be a small black or white bar.
- We have 5 step-by-step videos. The door switch is a safety feature found in all dryers. It is an on and off type switch that prevents the dryer drum from turning when the door is opened. If the dryer continues to tumble after the door is open the problem is most likely the door switch. We’ve created a list of the most common parts that can cause a dryer to not shut off. Use this list to diagnose the problem you’re having and then enter your model number into the search box to find the right part for you.
Check the Power. Whether you have a gas or electric dryer, it has to plug into a wall outlet, and the breaker controlling the outlet may have tripped. If so, you can reset it by turning it all the way off, then on again. Other Problems. If you can hear a humming sound when you start the dryer, it's possible the drive belt is broken, or the drive motor is faulty. On some models, a broken drive belt automatically prevents the motor from starting, but on others, you still may hear the motor working even though the tumbler isn't turning.
Pull the dryer away from the wall and unplug the power cord from the dryer outlet. Always unplug an appliance before beginning the troubleshooting procedure, for your safety. If an electric or gas-heated clothes dryer continues to run after the door is open, the door safety switch is stuck in the closed position. 
How it Works: On most dryers, when the dryer belt breaks, the motor will still run, but the drum will not turn. However, some dryers have a switch that shuts off power to the dryer if the drive belt is broken. Check the dryer belt to determine if it is broken. If the belt is broken, replace it. How it Works: On most dryers, when the dryer belt breaks, the motor will still run, but the drum won’t turn. However, some dryers have a switch that shuts off power to the dryer if the drive belt is broken. If this switch fails, it could shut off power to the dryer even when the belt is not broken