The newest acrylic paints are acrylic urethane paints. These act like both enamel and lacquer paints as they are easy to apply like lacquer and last like enamel. You can use these types of paints by themselves or in a multi stage system. Each type of paint has its own benefits and disadvantages. You need to think about the type of look you are aiming for and what is best for your car. The Main Benefits of Acrylic Paint. Acrylic lacquer paint was used in the 1920's through to the 60's, though in some places it is illegal.
If there is no built-in finish, I would use a clear acrylic spray or brush on sealer so that the surface doesn’t scratch easily. 8. Make paint chips. Use cardstock to create “chips,” or small squares that show the colors you have in your stash. That way you know what you have for the next project. I was thinking to use acrylic paint, or some other type of paint, to re-color the leather on my heels black and then possibly using mod podge as a top coat. I don’t think it’s real leather or anything too special since the shoes were very inexpensive, $30 to be exact.
To paint a wooden surface with acrylic paint, the first step is preparing the wood. To complete this project, you need the wooden object or surface, sandpaper, tack cloths, wood primer, a palette, a paintbrush, a sponge brush, a bowl of water, paper towels, acrylic paint, and wood sealant or varnish. Step 5. Using a paintbrush, apply the acrylic paint to the primed wood, following the design if you are using one. You can use a variety of brushes for different surfaces on the wood, such as a small round brush for precision painting and a flat brush for painting around curves.
Spray paint can be classified by the type of application it is best suited for. Some of the more commonly found types are general use, decorative and craft, rust-prevention, professional, plastic and specialty paints. The primary advantages of spray paint are its ease of application and its versatility. 
I am a long time user of acrylic craft paint. I pretty much paint every Mod Podge project before the Podge goes on, and I use it on projects that I don’t decoupage as well. If I can get away with using acrylic, even on a furniture re-do, I will. I was thinking to use acrylic paint, or some other type of paint, to re-color the leather on my heels black and then possibly using mod podge as a top coat. I don’t think it’s real leather or anything too special since the shoes were very inexpensive, $30 to be exact.
Aerosol paint (also called spray paint) is a type of paint that comes in a sealed pressurized container and is released in a fine spray mist when depressing a valve button. Acrylic-based craft primers and vinyl dye can be used on plastics like models or miniatures. Most brands include a wide variety of paints, including primers, heat and traffic resistant enamels, gloss and matte finishes, metallic colors, and textured paints for home decor.
There are several types of acrylic car paint that can be used on a car including acrylic enamel, acrylic lacquer and acrylic urethane. Each type of paint has its own benefits and disadvantages. You need to think about the type of look you are aiming for and what is best for your car. The Main Benefits of Acrylic Paint. Acrylic lacquer paint was used in the 1920's through to the 60's, though in some places it is illegal. This paint is easiest for those with little to no experience painting a car, as it is inexpensive and is easy to apply. You also get a nice high gloss on the finish
Acrylic paint is a water-based, non-toxic and quick-drying paint that can be used for many applications. Acrylics are easy to clean and opaque, which means you can correct mistakes just by painting over them. Acrylic Mediums and Uses. A variety of acrylic-based mediums are used for various purposes with acrylic paint to achieve different effects. 1  Gel retarder is added to acrylics to slow drying time up to 50 percent. 2  Texture paste is added to acrylic paint to give it depth without using large globs of paint
Other types of acrylic craft paints are also available. Patio paint is a waterproof acrylic paint suitable for outdoor projects such as flower pots, rocks or lawn decorations. Puffy paint comes in small tubes and is used for writing or three-dimensional decoration. Acrylic Mediums and Uses. A variety of acrylic-based mediums are used for various purposes with acrylic paint to achieve different effects. 1  Gel retarder is added to acrylics to slow drying time up to 50 percent. 2  Texture paste is added to acrylic paint to give it depth without using large globs of paint