Distinctive habits and characteristics of chimpanzees include: 1  Chimpanzees are the most social of all the apes and live in communities of between 15 and 120 individuals. 2  Their communities are often split into a number of subgroups with a male as the leader of the group.
The Whole Bushel. Chimpanzees are often thought of as a type of monkey. In 2003, for example, Suburban Auto Group’s successful “trunk monkey” ad campaign featured a chimp as the mascot. The literary character Curious George is depicted as a large, tailless ape—and is almost exclusively referred to as a monkey.
Primates At Risk. Common chimpanzees are the most successful of all apes in that there are more of them and they have the widest geographic range. However, their numbers have been significantly reduced. A century ago, there were millions of them in the wild.
CHIMPANZEES. Chimpanzees are great apes that live in the tropical rain forests of Africa from Sudan and Tanzania in the East to Senegal and Angola in the West. Democratic Republic of the Congo has the largest population, although chimpanzees have become extinct in some areas.
Humans, chimps, bonobos, and gorillas are all closely related. Some scientists estimate that humans and chimpanzees share anywhere from 96–99 percent of the same DNA. Monkeys, on the other hand, are more distantly related to humans, sharing around 93
Pan troglodytes. Chimpanzees are great apes (not monkeys) who are native to the continent of Africa. If you ever wonder if you are looking at an ape or a monkey, look for a tail. Monkeys have tails, apes: chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, orangutans, gibbons, and humans –do not.
In A Nutshell. It’s a common mistake in media: In commercials, films, and books, chimpanzees are often erroneously called monkeys. While related to monkeys, chimps aren’t actually monkeys at all. Instead, they’re part of a completely separate group of primates known as the great apes.
The difference between great apes and lesser apes is general size. There are two types of lesser apes: gibbons (SE Asia) and siamangs (SE Asia). There are four types of great apes: gorillas (Africa), bonobos (Africa), orangutans (SE Asia), and chimpanzees (Africa).
The main obvious difference between the two is that monkeys have tails; chimps and other apes do not. Monkeys are structurally closer to four-legged animals like cats and dogs, while chimpanzees and other apes are more similar to human beings, both structurally and in terms of their level of intelligence and behavior.