For the Dalmatian city now in Croatia, see Dubrovnik. Ragusa [raˈɡuːza] listen (help·info) (Sicilian: Rausa; Latin: Ragusia) is a city and comune in southern Italy. It is the capital of the province of Ragusa, on the island of Sicily, with around 75,000 inhabitants. It is built on a wide limestone hill between two deep valleys, Cava San Leonardo and Cava Santa Domenica.
Sicily makes a lot o' wine. From Marsala, the sweet, fortified wine of the region, to up-and-coming Nero d'Avola, this hot and hilly region is diverse. Sicily was at one time more quantity focused than quality, and while it's still producing a great deal of wine, the quality coming out is much better. For regions, the most popular are Tuscany (home of Chianti), Piedmont and the Tre-Venezie, which includes Veneto, Trentino Alto-Adige and Friuli. Other communes of note are in Southern Italy, and a few good wines are made elsewhere in the country.
In the Italian language, Donnafugata means fleeing woman. The story goes that in the late 19th century the Queen Maria Carolina after her flight from the court of Naples took refuge in the heart of Belice Valley in Sicily. Convinced that it is always necessary to be open to change in order to grow and improve, Giacomo Rallo and his wife, Gabriella, launched a new production project in 1983: Donnafugata.
In the Italian language, Donnafugata means fleeing woman. The story goes that in the late 19th century the Queen Maria Carolina after her flight from the court of Naples took refuge in the heart of Belice Valley in Sicily. For regions, the most popular are Tuscany (home of Chianti), Piedmont and the Tre-Venezie, which includes Veneto, Trentino Alto-Adige and Friuli. Other communes of note are in Southern Italy, and a few good wines are made elsewhere in the country.
Donnafugata Golf Resort & Spa, Sicily, Italy. The 5 star luxury Donnafugata Golf Resort & SPA is nestled in the South East of Sicily, one of Italy’s most fascinating regions. If you're looking for a luxury golf holiday in Italy then look no further than Donnafugata Golf Resort & Spa-you won't be disappointed.
Donnafugata grew out of the commitment of a family in Sicily that has always believed in the extraordinary enological potential of its land and has 150 years of experience in producing premium wines. Convinced that it is always necessary to be open to change in order to grow and improve, Giacomo Rallo and his wife, Gabriella, launched a new production project in 1983: Donnafugata.
Donnafugata Winery is one of Italy’s finest wineries and praised by wine critics and wine lovers alike all over the globe. This story was the inspiration for the name of the brand (their vineyards are located in the same area where the king and queen stayed in Sicily), and also for the image of the woman with the flowing hair on all of the wine labels.
The Marsala cellars are in easy reach of and apart from visits and tastings, we can also organize a fantastic and unique jazz and wine event with the lovely Jose José (rallo who is not only a key figure At donnafugata winery but also a famed singer who has performed all over the world and recorded CDs). cdshis story was the inspiration for the name of the brand (their vineyards are located in the same area where the king and queen stayed in Sicily), and also for the image of the woman with the flowing hair on all of the wine labels.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Province of Ragusa (Italian: Provincia di Ragusa; Sicilian: Pruvincia 'i Rausa) is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily in Italy, located in the south-east of the island. Its capital is the city of Ragusa, which is the most southerly provincial capital in Italy. It has an area of 1,614 square kilometres (623 sq mi) and a total population of 295,264 (2001). There are 12 comunes (Italian: comuni) in the province [1] , see Comunes of the Province of Ragusa.