Goto Privacy Settings and edit Who can look me up?. That apart, whenever you post something, if you click on the gear symbol, you get the option of changing/controlling your audience. Privacy. I really need my profile to remain private only for my family. But if someone types my name I STILL appear as a search result. My profile can be seen and some comments on my timeline, photos, friends. I don't want this! I changed ALL the security measures possible... not working! HELP!
Unfortunately, if you don't adjust your privacy settings, you may also be sharing them with the rest of the Internet as well. This simple tutorial will show you how to control who can see your Facebook photos. You can share them with your friends, with your friends' friends, or just with a small group of people. 
Click on either Public or Friends to see the full privacy sharing menu displayed in a drop-down menu. That privacy menu is shown in the image above, at the bottom. The second thing you should consider doing is changing the default setting for your Friends List, as shown on the next page. Sections of your ABOUT profile page on Facebook. Each box on your ABOUT profile page (Basic Info, Education, etc.) has its own audience selector menu. Click on the small pencil Edit icon to the right inside the box, and a dropdown menu showing the standard audience options appear.
So here's how to fix that. Make Your Timeline Private. If you're super-intense, you can change those settings to Custom and choose Only Me -- then you'll be the only one who can see the posts. Finally, limit your past posts -- which may have been made public at the time -- to Friends only. I've been using Timeline for about a month now, and I'm not sure how I feel about it. On the one hand, it's a lot easier to find things -- events, wall posts, etc, because you can now search your Facebook profile by date.
Timeline (Profile). I went to privacy settings and set the default privacy to Only Me or Friends, but people who are not my friends (when I use the View As Public feature to check) can still see my wall, many photos, and posts. How do I set it to allow the public to only see my name and profile picture?
2. Log in to your Facebook account and select “privacy settings” from the top right dropdown menu. Facebook privacy settings. 2. This will open the privacy settings page of your Facebook profile. From this page, you can control which applications and websites connect with your account, update your contact information and set the privacy level for selected photos. 1. On the privacy settings page, select “Edit settings” from the Photo albums section. 2. This will open all your photo albums and you can set a custom level of privacy for selected albums as shown below: facebook photo albums. Also read: How to open Facebook when blocked in school, office or workplace.
It will take you to a page listing all your friends. The following three options allow you to change the visibility of your friends list, and also change who can see people who follow you and people and pages you choose to follow or like. Facebook makes your friends list public by default. That means everyone can see it, even if they are not your friend. You can change that with just a few clicks. The easiest way is you to go to your Timeline/profile page to edit the visibility of your friends list. Sections of your ABOUT profile page on Facebook. Each box on your ABOUT profile page (Basic Info, Education, etc.) has its own audience selector menu. Click on the small pencil Edit icon to the right inside the box, and a dropdown menu showing the standard audience options appear.
Privacy. Timeline (Profile). I want it to be so that the public plus mutual friends can only see my profile picture and my name. At the moment people can see my pictures, comments etc. I want them to not be able to see anything. I keep trying all the options but can't work out how to privatise everything. 1 How can I make my profile COMPLETELY private and NOT appear... 2  How can I make my profile COMPLETELY private so you only see... 3  How do I make my profile and pictures completely private.