1 Normative organizations: These organizations have a large voluntary membership. 2  Individuals join these groups in order to pursue some shared goal that they believe is morally worthwhile. Members of a normative organization have a strong commitment to the organization's goals because the members identify with them. Because normative organizations are voluntary, the members are more likely to participate in group activities.
Nonprofit organizations provide a means by which members of a community can take action in an attempt to change the community they live in. These actions may take the form of developing a local neighborhood watch program or, on a larger scale, developing an organization that responds to world relief efforts. 
Share. By Ashley Crossman. Definition: A voluntary association is a group or organization that people may join or leave freely, that is free of external control, and whose purpose, goals, and methods are up to the members to determine. 
Membership is not necessarily voluntary, as it may be effectively required in order to work, which has led to a preference for the term common-interest association to describe groups which form out of a common interest. This could be a tool of political control, and also a way of protecting the economy from fraud. In many such jurisdictions, only a registered association is a juristic person whose membership is not responsible for the financial acts of the association.
A volunteer organization is characterized by (1) autonomy from the State, (2) self-governance through a board of unpaid trustees, (3) membership that is neither inherited nor prescribed, (4) aid from philanthropy, (5) benefit for or service to non-members, and (6) not-for-profit orientation. 
voluntary organization (ˈvɒləntərɪ ˌɔːɡənaɪˈzeɪʃən) or voluntary agency or or voluntary body. 1  an organization that is composed of or functions with the aid of volunteers and which provides aid or services to individuals, groups or countries ⇒ ■ Some voluntary organizations run workshops for disabled people. noun. 1  an organization that is composed of or functions with the aid of volunteers and which provides aid or services to individuals, groups or countries ⇒ ■ Some voluntary organizations run workshops for disabled people.
In some jurisdictions, there is a minimum for the number of persons starting an association. Some jurisdictions require that the association register with the police or other official body to inform the public of the association's existence. This could be a tool of political control, and also a way of protecting the economy from fraud. In many such jurisdictions, only a registered association is a juristic person whose membership is not responsible for the financial acts of the
There are thousands of voluntary consensus safety standards1 (voluntary standards) in existence and one may exist for your consumer product. There are many voluntary standard organizations (like ANSI, ASTM, CSA, UL, and others) that facilitate the creation of these voluntary standards for individual consumer products. For example, if you are designing a non-toy children's product that contains a cord, there are a few different standards, including the toy safety standard, that exist and that may provide helpful guidance for you in determining the safe length of cord or string to be used.
A voluntary group or union (also sometimes called a voluntary organization, unincorporated association, common-interest association, or just an association) is a group of individuals who enter into an agreement as volunteers to form a body (or organization) to accomplish a purpose. This could be a tool of political control, and also a way of protecting the economy from fraud. In many such jurisdictions, only a registered association is a juristic person whose membership is not responsible for the financial acts of the association.