Dispersion is a process that occurs to all constituents dissolved or suspended in groundwater. Dispersion occurs due to the flow and hence only in flowing water, while diffusion occurs irrespective of whether the water is flowing or not. Solute transport is described mathematically by the advection-dispersion equation:
Hydrogeology (hydro-meaning water, and-geology meaning the study of the Earth) is the area of geology that deals with the distribution and movement of groundwater in the soil and rocks of the Earth's crust (commonly in aquifers). The term geohydrology is often used interchangeably.
The dispersion term is defined as the sum of the mechanical dispersion and the diffusion. Mechanical dispersion is mixing that occurs as a consequence of local variations in velocity around some mean velocity of flow. The mechanical dispersion is calculated as the water velocity multiplied with the dispersivity.
In reality, solute transport in groundwater never occurs solely by advection. Dispersion is the second very important transport mechanism. Dispersion refers to the spreading and mixing caused by molecular diffusion and by the variations in velocity with which water moves at different scales.
Hydrogeology is an interdisciplinary subject; it can be difficult to account fully for the chemical, physical, biological and even legal interactions between soil, water, nature and society. The study of the interaction between groundwater movement and geology can be quite complex.
The different flow paths of the water particles cause the mechanical dispersion, a mechanical mixing and dilution of the solute within the bulk movement of groundwater. The numerical value of mechanical dispersion is the product of advective groundwater velocity and the dispersivity. The dispersivity is a characteristic property of the geological medium, and differs in value for each of the spatial components.
Advection describes mass transport simply due to the bulk flow of water in which the mass is dissolved, or movement of solute as a consequence of groundwater flow. Advection is the primary process by which solutes move in the groundwater.