Test pilots spend much of their time in the cockpit conducting flight tests. Although the work of a test pilot does not require much physical activity, there is considerable amount of mental stress and pressure. Testing and operating an aircraft in its developmental stages and pushing it to its maximum-performance abilities can be very dangerous.
In Flight-Pilot-Test Pilot. The career of a test pilot is a highly specialized area of aeronautics and aeronautical engineering. A test pilots mission is to fly, evaluate new or modified aircraft for research and development (R&D), and determine if the aircraft meets prescribed standards.
May 2011 http://programeval.ucdavis.edu 1 Pilot Testing Data Collection Instruments What is pilot testing? Basically, pilot testing means finding out if your survey, key informant interview guide or observation form will work in the “real world” by trying it out first on a few people.
Similar to pretests, pilot tests are used to evaluate how a sample of people from the survey population respond to the questionnaire. For a pilot test, surveyors typically contact a large number of people so that potential differences within and across groups in the population can be analyzed. In addition, pilot tests for many surveys test the full implementation procedures (e.g., contact letters, incentives, callbacks, etc.).
Full Definition of TEST PILOT. : a pilot who specializes in putting new or experimental airplanes through maneuvers designed to test them (as for strength) by producing strains in excess of normal. See test pilot defined for English-language learners.
Experimental test pilots expect the unexpected as a plane is tested to the limits of its design strength and performance capabilities. The production test pilot tests a plane on the basis of expected performance and known standards, as does the airline test pilot.
Another approach for pilot testing is to begin the pilot test phase in your production environment, by installing a limited number of agents to your production management group, and then gradually phasing in more agents.