Report Abuse. Owlet means a young owl and a little owl, the unfledged nestlings are chicks. Young penguins are chicks although there could be local names of which I am unaware.Young king penguins were at one stage clled smews. This is a sailor's term and was used for various different birds. I was just wondering what a baby owl and a baby penguin were called..
Owls are birds from the order Strigiformes, which includes about 200 species of mostly solitary and nocturnal birds of prey typified by an upright stance, a large, broad head, binocular vision, binaural hearing, sharp talons and feathers adapted for silent flight. Owl eggs typically have a white colour and an almost spherical shape, and range in number from a few to a dozen, depending on species and the particular season; for most, three or four is the more common number. In at least one species, female owls do not mate with the same male for a life time.
Most owls are nocturnal, actively hunting their prey in darkness. Several types of owl, however, are crepuscular —active during the twilight hours of dawn and dusk; one example is the pygmy owl (Glaucidium). Owl eggs typically have a white colour and an almost spherical shape, and range in number from a few to a dozen, depending on species and the particular season; for most, three or four is the more common number. In at least one species, female owls do not mate with the same male for a life time.
Eyesight is a particular characteristic of the owl that aids in nocturnal prey capture. Owls are part of a small group of birds that live nocturnally, but do not use echolocation to guide them in flight in low-light situations. Owls are known for their disproportionally large eyes in comparison to their skull. Owl eggs typically have a white colour and an almost spherical shape, and range in number from a few to a dozen, depending on species and the particular season; for most, three or four is the more common number. In at least one species, female owls do not mate with the same male for a life time.
Owls in the Family is a children's novel written by Farley Mowat first published in 1962. The story concerns two great horned owls found by Billy, Bruce and Murray in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. The owls become part of a larger pet collection. Wol is the larger bird and is a lighter color (pure white with a little black). Weeps is a mottled brown. Wol was found under a bush after a storm.
Most of the North American owl species are grouped together in a family called Strigidae, a.k.a. the “typical owls”. Barn Owls, however, belong to a family called Tytonidae, which comes from the Greek word tuto, which means, “night owl”. This owl is in a class of its own, literally! Or to be more precise, the Barn Owl is in a family of its own. Not only does the Barn Owl look different than other owls, due to its heart-shaped face, short tail, and small eyes, it is actually classified in a different group than all other North American owls.
Birds of prey is the term used to describe the hawk, falcon and owl families. They are also known as raptors.. All of these birds are faunivores-their diet consists of animals. The hawk and falcon families are diurnal, that is, they are most active during broad daylight. The owl families are mainly nocturnal, meaning that they are more active at night.
The Strigidae family, or Owl family, is a little confusing. All owls, with the EXCEPTION of the barn and bay owls are classified as strigidae (which means 'owl' or 'night bird'). The Strigidae are known as the 'typical owl' family. The barn owl family is called Tytonidae and includes 11 species of barn owl and their allies. They are also known as raptors.. All of these birds are faunivores-their diet consists of animals. The hawk and falcon families are diurnal, that is, they are most active during broad daylight. The owl families are mainly nocturnal, meaning that they are more active at night.
The snowy owl (Bubo scandiacus) is a large, white owl of the typical owl family. Snowy owls are native to Arctic regions in North America and Eurasia. Younger snowy owls start with darker plumage, which turns lighter as they get older. Males are almost all white, while females have more flecks of gray plumage. 