No, the deoxygenated blood enters and leaves the heart through the right side and the oxygenated blood enters and leaves the heart through the left side. Both sides of the hea … rt are separated by a wall called a septum. When blood has delivered oxygen to the cells, it is described as deoxygenated. It now looks a very dark red because so many of the haemoglobin molecules have turned blue again. The mixture of blue and red molecules looks dark red to our eyes.
Oxygenated blood is blood in which oxygen is attached to the haemoglobin molecules in the red blood cells. It is bright red because the attached oxygen makes the normally blue haemoglobin molecules turn red. When blood has delivered oxygen to the cells, it is described as deoxygenated. It now looks a very dark red because so many of the haemoglobin molecules have turned blue again. The mixture of blue and red molecules looks dark red to our eyes.
Blood becomes oxygenated through the process of diffusion in the lungs, more specifically referred to as gas exchange. It is a passive process so that means that many capillaries need to be in close contact with the air that we inspire. In fact the most intimate contact we have with the external world is in our lungs. The veins lead the de-oxygenated blood back to the heart, where  it goes through the right atrium, right ventricle, and through the  Pulmonary Arteries to the lungs, where g … as exchange happens.    Gas exchange is the process of CO2 and O2 swapping
The heart pumps oxygenated blood to the body and deoxygenated blood to the lungs. In the human heart there is one atrium and one ventricle for each circulation, and with both a systemic and a pulmonary circulation there are four chambers in total: left atrium, left ventricle, right atrium and right ventricle. The circulatory system of the lungs is the portion of the cardiovascular system in which oxygen-depleted blood is pumped away from the heart, via the pulmonary artery, to the lungs and returned, oxygenated, to the heart via the pulmonary vein.
Hypoxemia, or low blood oxygen, describes a lower than normal level of oxygen in your blood. In order to function properly, your body needs a certain level of oxygen circulating in the blood to cells and tissues. When this level of oxygen falls below a certain amount, hypoxemia occurs and you may experience shortness of breath. Though the pulse oximeter actually measures the saturation of oxygen in your blood, the results are often used as an estimate of blood oxygen levels. Normal pulse oximeter readings range from 95 to 100 percent, under most circumstances. Values under 90 percent are considered low.
Blood contains a pigment called hemoglobin that carries oxygen to the tissues in the body. Oxygen is added to hemoglobin in the lungs and carried throughout the body through b … lood vessels called arteries and it is called oxygenated blood. When blood has delivered oxygen to the cells, it is described as deoxygenated. It now looks a very dark red because so many of the haemoglobin molecules have turned blue again. The mixture of blue and red molecules looks dark red to our eyes.
Vertebrate blood is bright red when its haemoglobin is oxygenated and dark red when it is deoxygenated. Some animals, such as crustaceans and mollusks, use hemocyanin to carry oxygen, instead of hemoglobin. In animals with lungs, arterial blood carries oxygen from inhaled air to the tissues of the body, and venous blood carries carbon dioxide, a waste product of metabolism produced by cells, from the tissues to the lungs to be exhaled.
This oxygenated blood is pumped to the left hand side of the heart in the pulmonary vein and enters the left atrium. From here it passes through the mitral valve, through the ventricle and taken all around the body by the aorta. Blood contains antibodies, nutrients, oxygen and much more to help the body work. In animals with lungs, arterial blood carries oxygen from inhaled air to the tissues of the body, and venous blood carries carbon dioxide, a waste product of metabolism produced by cells, from the tissues to the lungs to be exhaled.