Peas are a cool-season crop, so indoor planting and germination should take place several weeks before the last frost in your area. This will ensure plenty of time for outdoor planting, growth and harvest before temperatures warm to the point where pea plants fail to grow and produce. Fill 3-inch (7.62 cm) pots with potting soil. 9. Plant 1 germinated seed from the folded paper towel into each pot. 1  Note: Set the germinated seeds about 1/2 the planting depth recommended on the seed packet and cover them lightly
If the seeds are damp it helps the inoculant stick to the seeds. Pea seeds generally germinate within a week. If conditions are optimal, I’ve had them germinate in only 4 or 5 days. (Except that year when voles tunneled along every row and ate every one of the pea seeds – a half pound of seeds! I replanted and rolled the seeds in cayenne pepper first, but they ate those too. No peas for me that year.)
Peas are a cool weather crop, but the seeds take a long time to germinate in cold soil. The length of time it takes for a pea seed to germinate depends on temperature, moisture and age of the seed. At temperatures of 65 to 70 F the seeds will sprout within 7 to 14 days and the germination percentage will be in the high 90s for fresh seed. Above 75 F the germination percentage goes down quickly even though the seeds sprout quickly. Remember, these are soil temperatures, not air temperatures.
how long does it take for the seed to germinate but I also need to know if they need to be soaked in water (and how long they might need to be in water). Best answer: Answer by BobKat. Soaking in water is helpful. If conditions are optimal, I’ve had them germinate in only 4 or 5 days. (Except that year when voles tunneled along every row and ate every one of the pea seeds – a half pound of seeds! I replanted and rolled the seeds in cayenne pepper first, but they ate those too.
Sowing. Plant pea seeds in the early spring once the soil temperature has reached 45 F. Do not plant while the soil is wet and sticky; wait until the soil does not stick to your gardening tools. Care. Keep the seedbed moist and do not allow the soil to dry out, since this stops germination. Gently pull up small invasive weeds as they appear so they do not form large roots and disturb the pea seeds.
1 Peas prefer soil that is fertile, well drained and high in organic matter. 2  Peas usually take 50-to-70 days from germination to harvest. 3  Plant 2-to-3 oz. ( 4 56-to-85 g) of seed for each 100 feet (30 m) of row. Fill 3-inch (7.62 cm) pots with potting soil. 9. Plant 1 germinated seed from the folded paper towel into each pot. 1  Note: Set the germinated seeds about 1/2 the planting depth recommended on the seed packet and cover them lightly
Germination. Pea seeds germinate in one to two weeks under ideal conditions. It may take up to a month for the seedlings to emerge if spring temperatures are low. Small pea sprouts resemble blades of grass when emerging from the soil and then develop two leaves before undergoing a growth spurt. Care. Keep the seedbed moist and do not allow the soil to dry out, since this stops germination. Gently pull up small invasive weeds as they appear so they do not form large roots and disturb the pea seeds.
The best temperature for germination is from 60 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit, but black-eyed peas will germinate from 40 to 80 F. As with bush beans, germination in ideal temperatures will take eight to 10 days, but it can take two weeks or more if soil temperatures are below 60 F. Plant the seeds 1 to 2 inches below the soil surface. If you are transplanting them, especially for an early spring crop, use individual cell packs or soil blocks to start your black-eyed peas indoors so there is minimal damage to the roots during transplant.
Temperature. Peas will sprout in 21 to 30 days if the soil temperature is 38 degrees Fahrenheit and the germination rate, or number of seeds that do sprout, will be low. At temperatures of 65 to 70 F the seeds will sprout within 7 to 14 days and the germination percentage will be in the high 90s for fresh seed. Above 75 F the germination percentage goes down quickly even though the seeds sprout quickly. Remember, these are soil temperatures, not air temperatures.
A soil temperature below 40 F delays the germination of the pea seeds. Soil temperature in the range of 40 to 75 F is ideal for germination. Care. Keep the seedbed moist and do not allow the soil to dry out, since this stops germination. Gently pull up small invasive weeds as they appear so they do not form large roots and disturb