The cribriform plate is the name given to a specific area of the human skull. It is part of the ethmoid bone, which is responsible for separating the brain from the nasal cavity. An injury in the region of the cribriform plate requires immediate medical attention. Damage to the cribriform plate may cause loss of smell. The grooved, narrow cribriform plate supports the olfactory bulb. Any type of head injury can cause damage to the cribriform plate. The cribriform plate
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The cribriform plate is the name given to a specific area of the human skull. It is part of the ethmoid bone, which is responsible for separating the brain from the nasal cavity. It attaches to a structure located on the frontal bone of the skull known as the ethmoidal notch. An injury in the region of the cribriform plate requires immediate medical attention. Damage to the cribriform plate may cause loss of smell. The grooved, narrow cribriform plate supports the olfactory bulb. Any type of head injury can cause damage to the cribriform plate. The cribriform plate is part of the ethmoid bone, which is responsible for separating the brain from the nasal cavity
cribriform plate. (anatomy). The horizontal plate of the ethmoid bone, part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. The bone lining a dental alveolus. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Medical Definition of CRIBRIFORM PLATE. 1. : the horizontal plate of the ethmoid bone perforated with numerous foramina for the passage of the olfactory nerve filaments from the nasal cavity—called also lamina cribrosa. 2. : lamina dura
cribriform plate. This is a part of the sclera which is situated at the site of attachment of the optic nerve, 3 mm to the inner side of and just above the posterior pole of the eye. There, the sclera is a thin sieve-like membrane through which pass fibres of the optic nerve. Syn. lamina cribrosa (although this term also refers to the striated portion of the bulbar optic nerve which includes the cribriform plate). See myelinated nerve fibres
The cribriform plate (Latin “cribriform” = perforated) lies within the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone and forms the roof of the nasal cavity. As the name suggests it comprises numerous openings through which the olfactory fibers from the nasal cavity pass through to the anterior cranial fossa. 
The ethmoid has three parts: cribriform plate, ethmoidal labyrinth, and perpendicular plate. Between the orbital plate and the nasal conchae are the ethmoidal sinuses or ethmoidal air cells, which are a variable number of small cavities in the lateral mass of the ethmoid. 
The cribriform plate is a sieve-like structure between the anterior cranial fossa and the nasal cavity. It is a part of ethmoid bone and supports the olfactory bulb. It is perforated by foramina for the passage of the olfactory nerves and the nerves to the upper part of the nasal septum, the latter of those to the superior nasal concha.
cribriform plate. This is a part of the sclera which is situated at the site of attachment of the optic nerve, 3 mm to the inner side of and just above the posterior pole of the eye. There, the sclera is a thin sieve-like membrane through which pass fibres of the optic nerve. Syn. lamina cribrosa (although this term also refers to the striated portion of the bulbar optic nerve which includes the cribriform plate). See myelinated nerve fibres.