Virtually all PE teachers hold a bachelor’s degree at minimum from a regionally accredited college or university. A bachelor’s degree related to physical education is a broad-scoped degree that prepares candidates for a number of PE, recreation, and health-related fields.
Physical education teachers must complete teacher education programs focused on a health and fitness-related subject. Some colleges and universities offer a Bachelor of Science in Education program with an emphasis on physical education.
The most basic college degree to become a school teacher is called a Bachelor Degree. It usually takes 4 years to complete a Bachelor's Degree in Education. My sister completed a Bachelor's Degree in Physical Education at Florida State University in about 4 years in 1968. They may have expanded the program for completion of a Bachelor's Degree in Education, or Physical Education, since then.
Although the Bureau of Labor Statistics does not provide specific salary data for physical education teachers, online job sites like Glassdoor.com offer estimates for P.E. teacher salaries that range from a national average of $47,019 to $70,891 in Maryland.
Step 4. Apply for a Clear Credential in Physical Education. The initial credential to teach in California expires after 5 years. To earn a clear credential that is renewable every 5 years, you must successfully complete an induction program and apply for a clear credential.
You need to have completed at least 4 years of study at a recognised university or higher education institution. Most students who want to be a teacher will either 1  : Complete an accredited 4 year teaching degree, including the required amount of study in the subject/s you intend to teach.
Middle school physical education teacher salary and employment projections. The salary for all middle school teachers across the United States ranges from about $42,000 to $56,000 based on estimates from 2010 to 2013. In some states, P.E. teachers may receive additional pay for coaching after-school sports.
Although the Bureau of Labor Statistics does not provide specific salary data for physical education teachers, online job sites such as Glassdoor.com provide estimates for P.E. teacher salaries that range from a national average of $38,800 to $59,075.
How to Become a Phys Ed Teacher. Physical education teachers work as state certified educators who are responsible for instructing students in health, fitness, and sports within a structured, K-12 school environment.