Must Read: Richest Man in Africa. We wanted to present the top 10 richest men of the country. But when we checked the list of Forbes websites, then we found only a few people who qualified for the list when compared to countries like Russia, United States and China. Who is the richest black man in Africa? Which persons are billionaires in the Republic of South Africa (RSA)? To answer all these questions, TechScio has come up with another article dealing with wealthiest persons in the country of South Africa which lies on the continent of Africa.
Aliko Dangote, Nigerian is the 5th richest man in Africa and 334th in the world with a net worth of $3.3 billion. The richest man in the world is Carlos Slim Helu with a Net worth of $74 Billion dollars, he is the founder and owner of TELMEX which controls about 80-90% of Mexico's telepho … ne lines and across Latin America, currently he has 250,000 employees working for him and is involved in over 100 companies.
28 Likes Like. The African continent has produced many wealthy people; with over 28 known billionaires. According the Forbes’ 2015 list of Africa’s 50 Richest, Nigerian business magnate Aliko Dangote remains the richest person in Africa and the richest black man in the world. Here are the richest people in Africa as of 2015, according to Forbes. Gerrit Thomas “GT” Ferreira is a self-made millionaire who co-founded Rand Consolidated Investing in 1977 along with Laurie Dippenaar and Paul Harris. After a series successful mergers and acquisitions, FirstRand came into existence in 1990
Continue ». For the first time, Nigeria is home to more of Africa's wealthiest than South Africa, with 13, including the continent's richest person and two new billionaires. Africa’s 50 Richest 2014: The Newcomers. Africa's 50 Richest 2014: The Dropoffs. Billionaire Patrice Motsepe Donates $1M To Fight Ebola. 
The richest man in Africa is Onsi Sawaris, from Egypt. He has been ranked 129th richest man in the world by Forbes's at a net worth of $4.8 billion.His companies, Orascom Telecom and Orascom Construction Industry, rate amongst the largest companies in the world, 1301 and 1763 respectively in position. Aliko Dangote. Net Worth: $13.8 Billion. Nigeria Richest Person: #1. The richest man in the world is Carlos Slim Helu with a Net worth of $74 Billion dollars, he is the founder and owner of TELMEX which controls about 80-90% of Mexico's telepho … ne lines and across Latin America, currently he has 250,000 employees working for him and is involved in over 100 companies.
Meet Africa's richest man: Aliko Dangote. Forbes magazine estimates his wealth at $25bn, making him the 23rd richest man in the world with a growing portfolio of investments across Africa. 
Africa is endowed with so many resources including natural and human potentials to harness the available resources. In as much as the continent is still lagging behind when it comes to technology, it is possible that in the future, the richest people in the world may come from Africa. 
According to Forbes 2014 ranking of the world's billionaires, Nigerian business magnate Aliko Dangote with a net worth of $25 billion is the world's richest black person. 
Net Worth: $20.8 Billions. Not only he is the wealthiest person, but also Aliko Dangote is the richest in Nigeria. He has a fortune which has been estimated by the Forbes to be around $16 billions which is more than anyone in the African continent.