Ashlar is in contrast to rubble masonry, which employs irregularly shaped stones, although sometimes minimally worked or selected for similar size, or both. Ashlar may be coursed, which involves lengthy horizontal courses of stone blocks laid in parallel, and therefore with continuous horizontal joints. Ashlar may also be random, which involves stone blocks laid with deliberately discontinuous courses and therefore discontinuous joints both vertically and horizontally.
It is generally laid up as rock-faced work, but in some cases, it is tooled or hammer-dressed. It should have no horizontal joints more than 4 feet long, and several sizes of stone should be used. Fig. 29 shows an ordinary broken ashlar wall, 2 feet thick, the sizes of stones used being 4,6,8 and 12 inches in height. Built-Up Lintels. - It is sometimes necessary to use a stone lintel that is 10 or 12 feet long. Since it is difficult to obtain a single piece of stone of this length, the lintel may be made in sections, as in Fig.
Masonry is commonly used for the walls of buildings, retaining walls and buildings. Brick and concrete block are the most common types of masonry in use in industrialized nations and may be either weight-bearing or a veneer. The strength of a masonry wall is not entirely dependent on the bond between the building material and the mortar; the friction between the interlocking blocks of masonry is often strong enough to provide a great deal of strength on its own.
Ashlar is related but distinct from other stone masonry that is finely dressed but not quadrilateral, such as curvilinear masonry and polygonal masonry. Ashlar may be coursed, which involves lengthy horizontal courses of stone blocks laid in parallel, and therefore with continuous horizontal joints. Ashlar may also be random, which involves stone blocks laid with deliberately discontinuous courses and therefore discontinuous joints both vertically and horizontally.
As a result, ashlar can withstand a considerable degree of erosion and distress before any indenting work is required. However, it is commonplace to find that unnecessary repair work is carried out when only superficial, surface damage to stones has occurred, due to an unnecessary emphasis on building aesthetics. 10 Indents ‘painted’ in an attempt to ‘blend in’ to the adjacent masonry. As the vertical joints are ‘staggered’ (off-set from one another) in original ashlar construction, it is good practice to maintain this original pattern when indenting multiple stones.
IntroductionThis INFORM guide provides an introduction to the practice of replacing damaged stone in ashlar-built sandstone walls. Referred to as ‘indenting’, this technique involves replacing badly decayed or damaged masonry units with stone of similar dimension and physical characteristics. 10 Indents ‘painted’ in an attempt to ‘blend in’ to the adjacent masonry. As the vertical joints are ‘staggered’ (off-set from one another) in original ashlar construction, it is good practice to maintain this original pattern when indenting multiple stones.
Ashlar masonry is a type of building construction that uses primarily rectangular blocks of stone. Using techniques dating back thousands of years, ‘ashlar’ masons can create walls, arches and buildings through correct placement and varied sizes of rectangular blocks. In most exposure conditions the depth of profile of the ‘ashlar’ will be varied between 5 and 10 mm. Which cut is chosen it is important to maintain at least 15 mm of render at the lowest point. In areas of severe exposure the recommended minimum coverage at any point should be increased to 20 mm.
Fortunately, it is more usual to find buildings constructed in the appropriate manner, with only a few individual stone blocks face bedded. The choice to replace stone Ashlar walling is, by definition, constructed of squared masonry units, and is inherently stronger than rubble stone structures. 10 Indents ‘painted’ in an attempt to ‘blend in’ to the adjacent masonry. As the vertical joints are ‘staggered’ (off-set from one another) in original ashlar construction, it is good practice to maintain this original pattern when indenting multiple stones.
Ashlar is finely dressed (cut, worked) masonry, either an individual stone that has been worked until squared or the masonry built of such stone. It is the finest stone masonry unit, generally cuboid, mentioned by Vitruvius as opus isodomum, or less frequently trapezoidal. Ashlar may be coursed, which involves lengthy horizontal courses of stone blocks laid in parallel, and therefore with continuous horizontal joints. Ashlar may also be random, which involves stone blocks laid with deliberately discontinuous courses and therefore discontinuous joints both vertically and horizontally.
Both rubble and ashlar masonry can be laid in coursed rows of even height through the careful selection or cutting of stones, but a great deal of stone masonry is uncoursed. 1  Slipform stonemasonry produces a hybrid wall of reinforced concrete with a rubble stone face. The strength of a masonry wall is not entirely dependent on the bond between the building material and the mortar; the friction between the interlocking blocks of masonry is often strong enough to provide a great deal of strength on its own.