From that fragile first season in 1998, where 67 teams played under the Bilston League banner, we have grown to the level where we average 200 teams per season, providing organised football for around 5,000 youngsters and young adults every Sunday. Much work was done prior to the launch of the League to attract referees to join us, and our reputation within the refereeing fraternity is now second to none. We are able to appoint a League Referee to EVERY fixtured game – a statistic no other junior league can come even close to matching.
Created by the now defunct committee of Springvale Tranco Colts FC, and supported by both Bilston College (now Wolverhampton City College) and Bilston Town FC – hence the Partnership aspect of the name, the new Bilston Partnership Youth Football League was formed. Those 67 teams were spread over eight age groups, from Under 10s up to U17s, and in fact due to the lack of numbers the U16s & U17s merged in order to create a format that would provide a full set of competitive fixtures for the season.
Before the Bilston Partnership Youth Football League came into existence, Wolverhampton last boasted a junior football league way back in 1980, when the Wolverhampton Youth Service League folded due to a lack of members. Much work was done prior to the launch of the League to attract referees to join us, and our reputation within the refereeing fraternity is now second to none. We are able to appoint a League Referee to EVERY fixtured game – a statistic no other junior league can come even close to matching.
Early meetings in 1998, to advertise the league and its aims, attracted as many as 300 teams, all seemingly wanting this new option, but in September 1998 when the League was launched, just 67 teams were brave enough to apply to be a part of this new ‘revolution’. Much work was done prior to the launch of the League to attract referees to join us, and our reputation within the refereeing fraternity is now second to none. We are able to appoint a League Referee to EVERY fixtured game – a statistic no other junior league can come even close to matching.
Third in Arena League. Bilston swimmers swam amazingly well to secure a third place finish in the first round of the Arena League. The premier division is tough but the team now lies in the top half of the league and has secured its place for the fourth consecutive year as one the regions top 24 clubs. Bilston secured a 4th place in the final round of the Arena League at Stafford Leisure Centre tonight. I would like to thank all of those swimmers who have given everything to ensure the club maintains it's premier division status this season.
Welcome! We are the Bilston and District darts league. This league has been running as far back as 1950 and still going stronger than ever. Last season was another closely fought affair with Tilted Barrel taking the treble. Good luck to every team in the league this season,and may the best team win. Thank you and enjoy..... Lee Cox.
The club reformed in 1946 simply as Bilston F.C. In 1954 the team joined the Birmingham & District League and won the championship in 1960–61 and again in 1972–73 (by which time the league had been renamed the West Midlands Regional League). In 1983 the club's name changed to Bilston Town F.C. After finishing as West Midlands Regional League runners-up in 1984–85, the Steelmen were promoted to the Southern Football League, where they spent seventeen seasons in the Midland Division (later re-organised as the Western Division).
Before the Bilston Partnership Youth Football League came into existence, Wolverhampton last boasted a junior football league way back in 1980, when the Wolverhampton Youth Service League folded due to a lack of members. Those 67 teams were spread over eight age groups, from Under 10s up to U17s, and in fact due to the lack of numbers the U16s & U17s merged in order to create a format that would provide a full set of competitive fixtures for the season.
Bilston Town Football Club is an English association football club based in Bilston, West Midlands. In the 2015–16 season they are playing in the West Midlands (Regional) League Premier Division for the third time. In 1983 the club's name changed to Bilston Town F.C. After finishing as West Midlands Regional League runners-up in 1984–85, the Steelmen were promoted to the Southern Football League, where they spent seventeen seasons in the Midland Division (later re-organised as the Western Division).
Then, after a frantic 18 months of planning, in 1997 an application to the Staffs FA to sanction a new youth league was accepted, and the impending arrival of the Bilston Partnership Youth Football League was announced and advertised. Those 67 teams were spread over eight age groups, from Under 10s up to U17s, and in fact due to the lack of numbers the U16s & U17s merged in order to create a format that would provide a full set of competitive fixtures for the season.