The kinkajou, (Potos flavus), also known as the Honey Bear or Night Walker in Belize, is a furry, long-tailed mammal that lives in the lowland rain forests of Southern Mexico, Central America and parts of South America. Kinkajou specs: An adult kinkajou weighs between 3 and 10 pounds, or about one and a half to almost five kilograms, and ranges from 16 to 24 inches (or 40 to 60 cm) in length, with a tail about the same length.
The larger varieties of kinkajous can reach a weight of up to 8 pounds, and attain a body length of about 25 inches, with a tail which can grow to a length of 18 to 20 inches. Kinkajous have fully prehensile grasping tails, which can be used like an extra hand when climbing. The kinkajou is sexually mature at 18 to 30 months. Male kinkajous reach sexual maturity at about 1.5 years (about 18 months), females in 2.5 years (about 30 months). The female kinkajou is in season approximately every three months.
An adult kinkajou weighs 1.4–4.6 kg (3–10 lb). The adult body length is 40–60 cm (16–24 in); in addition to body length, the tail length is 40–60 cm (16–24 in). The kinkajou's woolly fur consists of an outer coat of gold (or brownish-gray) overlapping a gray undercoat. It has large eyes and small ears.
Animal: Kinkajou. Species: There are seven subspecies of Kinkajou under the species name Potus Flavus. Lifespan: The Kinkajou lives to be about 23 years old. Size: A full grown Kinkajou is about 17-22 inches long and has a 16-20 inch tail. They weigh between 3 and 7.5 lbs. Habitat: Kinkajous are found in South American and Central American forests. They primarily live in trees, whre they use their long prehensile tail as a fifth limb to hang from branches. Pictures of kinkajous (Potos flavus). Kinkajous, or honey bears, is a rainforest mammal related to raccoons. They reach the size of a housecat and have a prehensile tail which can be used as a fifth hand for climbing.
Confidence votes 27. The average adult Kinkajou weighs about 2-3 kg. The average body length is 17-22 inches; in addition to body length, the average tail length is about 16-22 inches. But, if you want to get one as a pet be very careful. They dislike being awake during the day and hate noise and sudden movements. 
In the wild, kinkajous usually give birth between April and December. Kinkajous have an average life span of approximately 23 to 24 years, with some living up to 29 or more years, and there is even a report of one at the Honolulu zoo that has lived over 39 years. The kinkajou is sexually mature at 18 to 30 months. Male kinkajous reach sexual maturity at about 1.5 years (about 18 months), females in 2.5 years (about 30 months). The female kinkajou is in season approximately every three months.
The kinkajou (Potos flavus) is a rainforest mammal of the family Procyonidae related to olingos, coatis, raccoons, and the ringtail and cacomistle. It is the only member of the genus Potos and is also known as the honey bear (a name that it shares with the sun bear). The adult body length is 40–60 cm (16–24 in); in addition to body length, the tail length is 40–60 cm (16–24 in). The kinkajou's woolly fur consists of an outer coat of gold (or brownish-gray) overlapping a gray undercoat. It has large eyes and small ears.
Kinkajou Care and Facts: Average Lifespan: Up to 25 Years. Diet: Kinkajous eat fresh fruits and vegetables daily along with Zupreem monkey biscuits. Treats may be given daily which include graham cracker, fig Newton, raisins or dates. Size at Adulthood: 4- 7 pounds and roughly the size of a small house cat. Minimum Cage size: Minimum size enclosure is 4 x 8 x6. If you live in a milder climate you may keep your kinkajou outdoors all year round providing heat in the winter. Kinkajous are one of our favorite animals. If bottle-fed and handled properly they are very sweet and good natured. Even when bonded to their owner(s) they will go from person to person without hesitation, interacting with strangers just as if they were its owner. They are very quiet clean and inoffensive animals.