Bulimia is a serious, potentially life-threatening condition. There are multiple dangerous health consequences that result from being bulimic, both physical and psychological.
Bulimia Nervosa. Definition Signs/Symptoms Physical/Medical. Definition. Bulimia Nervosa is a type of eating disorder that is characterized by a cycle of binge eating followed by purging to try and rid the body of unwanted calories. Bulimia is more prevalent than anorexia and data shows that it affects 1-3% of teens in the USA.
You will have bad hair and teeth. Bad hair: The hair loss associated with bulimia is – Telogen Effluvium. This is massive hair loss brought on by extreme stress and sudden physical trauma. Aside from the hair loss, your hair will also be robbed of moisture and appear dry and brittle.
The Effects of bulimia on the Body. Bulimia nervosa is a mental health disorder that puts enormous strain on the body and the spirit. Many people with bulimia engage in compulsive exercising to control weight.
1 Bulimia: The Symptoms and Dangers Bulimia nervosa, commonly known as bulimia, is a psychological eating disorder. 2  It consists of periods of binge eating, followed by purging to control weight. 3  Bulimia is not 4  …. Finding the Root Cause of Bad Digestion Your body is a system of interconnected networks.
Bulimia Nervosa. Bulimia nervosa is a serious, potentially life-threatening eating disorder characterized by a cycle of bingeing and compensatory behaviors such as self-induced vomiting designed to undo or compensate for the effects of binge eating.
Dear Reader, Bulimia is a serious, potentially life-threatening condition. There are multiple dangerous health consequences that result from being bulimic, both physical and psychological. Because it's so intimately entwined with self-image — it's not just about food — bulimia can be difficult to overcome.
im bulimic and my friends say i shouldnt do it but when ever someone makes a comment of my weight i feel like i need to go to the bathroom to throw up.Im kinda big for my age. Alot of kids make fun of me but not all. I have depression and abanditment issues. My parents caught throwing up and asked me was i sick i...