In continuous-flow solution culture, the nutrient solution constantly flows past the roots. It is much easier to automate than the static solution culture because sampling and adjustments to the temperature and nutrient concentrations can be made in a large storage tank that has potential to serve thousands of plants. As with deep water culture, there is an airstone in the reservoir that pumps air into the water via a hose from outside the reservoir. The airstone helps add oxygen to the water. Both the airstone and the water pump run 24 hours a day.
Hydroponics, in its purest form, is also referred to as Deep Water Culture or DWC for short. No substrate growing media is required. The plants' roots literally dangle straight into water. Now, for those of you who have been continually warned about over-watering plants, this may seem a little odd. DWC systems are very simple. All you need is a container, lid, pump and a net pot. The container holds the nutrient solution (usually around 2.5-4 gallons (10-15 liters)) and the lid supports a single plant growing in a net pot. Roots grow out the net pot and into the nutrient solution held in the container below.
The water culture medium is a solution in distilled water of nutritive mixtures whose composition depends on the research task and the type of crop being studied. The vessels containing the water culture are placed in a greenhouse. The science of water culture, which was developed in the 1870’s by the German biologists J. Knop and J. von Sachs, is used in the study of plant feeding, growth, and development, as well as in manufacturing.
The two main types of hydroponics are solution culture and medium culture. Solution culture does not use a solid medium for the roots, just the nutrient solution. The three main types of solution cultures are static solution culture, continuous-flow solution culture and aeroponics. As with deep water culture, there is an airstone in the reservoir that pumps air into the water via a hose from outside the reservoir. The airstone helps add oxygen to the water. Both the airstone and the water pump run 24 hours a day.
While deep water culture involves the plant roots hanging down into a reservoir of nutrient solution, in top-fed deep water culture the solution is pumped from the reservoir up to the roots (top feeding). As with deep water culture, there is an airstone in the reservoir that pumps air into the water via a hose from outside the reservoir. The airstone helps add oxygen to the water. Both the airstone and the water pump run 24 hours a day.
However if the plant your trying to grow using this method is heavy you must create a flotation devise to keep it from sinking to the bottom of your reservoir. Also for this method to be affective you have to fend off root rot. Using deep-water culture oxygen diffusers to provide the roots with the oxygen needed can keep root rot at bay. In this type of system the water is stagnate and does not flow like most other hydroponic systems. 
Hydroponics is a subset of hydroculture and is a method of growing plants using mineral nutrient solutions, in water, without soil. Terrestrial plants may be grown with their roots in the mineral nutrient solution only, or in an inert medium, such as perlite or gravel. As with deep water culture, there is an airstone in the reservoir that pumps air into the water via a hose from outside the reservoir. The airstone helps add oxygen to the water. Both the airstone and the water pump run 24 hours a day.
Water culture was first used in Russia by K. A. Timiriazev in 1872; it was further developed in the works of D. N. Prianishnikov. Water culture is used in studying the ingestion, assimilation, and metabolization of salts by plants. All agricultural crops grow well in water culture, including root and tuber crops. The science of water culture, which was developed in the 1870’s by the German biologists J. Knop and J. von Sachs, is used in the study of plant feeding, growth, and development, as well as in manufacturing.
the raising of plants in a liquid (aqueous) nutrient medium. The science of water culture, which was developed in the 1870’s by the German biologists J. Knop and J. von Sachs, is used in the study of plant feeding, growth, and development, as well as in manufacturing.
The essential disadvantage of water culture is the variation in the reaction of the nutrient solution, with sharp jumps toward acidity or alkalinity as a result of the physiological acidity or alkalinity of the nutrient salts used. The science of water culture, which was developed in the 1870’s by the German biologists J. Knop and J. von Sachs, is used in the study of plant feeding, growth, and development, as well as in manufacturing.