Assume a full-time teacher makes $48,000 per year, based on a 40-hour work week, and does the same work you do. If you work 20 hours per week, your annual pro rata salary would be half of $48,000, or $24,000.
They overload total expences of human resorces on salary, and show that they are paying this much salary to the staff. but actualy they pay less and show more. For example....your salary is 6.00 Lacs p.a. Means ... you are getting 50,000/- per month. But actuly person gets only 25,000/- per month...all other money is deducted for facilities.. Means we are paying for getting facilities, but company shows they are giving us good facilities in the organization.
(United States). A Physician Assistant (PA) earns an average salary of $86,619 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. A skill in Emergency Medicine is associated with high pay for this job.
Key. High: The typical high-end salary you can expect for this kind of job, based on last month's job ads. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again
Well as people have already answered the pa means Per Annum so that works out at £230 per week / £15 per hour. If this sounds far too much for the job that you will be doing, it could be a typo and will mean pro rata which is the £12k divided my 52 weeks divided again by say 37.5 hours which is about £6 per hour.
A Physician Assistant (PA) earns an average salary of $86,619 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. A skill in Emergency Medicine is associated with high pay for this job.
Salary means gross pre-tax salary (CTC) inclusive of all components (monthly, annual, retiral and deferred payments). 3. Accuracy levels: It is our expectation that the salary indicator will be 90% accurate within a band of +/- 20% of the indicated salary figure i.e. 90% of persons will fall within the band.