Which brings us back to Mr. Wheatcroft’s question. Although the Cold War is definitely over, we all still need NATO. Just ask the citizens of Libya and Afghanistan, and the peoples of Europe and North America, who are among the hundreds of millions relying on NATO to secure a peaceful present — and a better future. NATO is, as President Obama has said, “the most successful alliance in human history.” During its first 40 years, it won the Cold War. In the next 20, it secured an enduring European peace — not least by welcoming 12 new members through the enlargement process Mr. Wheatcroft so derides.
So ultimately, this is why we still need NATO. It puts the resources of North America and Europe together to support our shared values and our strategic interests, for the safety of future generations. Many people have said that with the problems we face today, if we did not have NATO, we would have to create it. During the Cold War, we all lived under the daily threat of nuclear annihilation. NATO-including the nuclear umbrella-was the best means we had available to ensure our safety. Today, the risk of such a nuclear confrontation is nearly gone. But with the Cold War over, our security agenda has broadened, in terms of both the nature and the complexity of the issues we need to address
Today’s NATO is an alliance that is busier than ever, an alliance that works with more partners than ever, and an alliance that is more needed by more people than ever. The reasons are clear. We live in a world of complex and unpredictable challenges and threats to security. In this world, the local has gone global. NATO is, as President Obama has said, “the most successful alliance in human history.” During its first 40 years, it won the Cold War. In the next 20, it secured an enduring European peace — not least by welcoming 12 new members through the enlargement process Mr. Wheatcroft so derides.
That's why we have work hard to preserve and strengthen NATO, and the U.S. commitment to NATO, in the work we do every day. You do it here at the Chicago Council, and for me, as Secretary General, it is my most vital, personal mission. Thank you very much. During the Cold War, we all lived under the daily threat of nuclear annihilation. NATO-including the nuclear umbrella-was the best means we had available to ensure our safety. Today, the risk of such a nuclear confrontation is nearly gone. But with the Cold War over, our security agenda has broadened, in terms of both the nature and the complexity of the issues we need to address
With the collapse of the Soviet Union, attack from that quarter is now considered unlikely. In fact, we are rapidly moving toward pulling Russia and its former satellites into NATO. If the threat that was used to justify our membership is gone, common sense tells us that it is time to reconsider that membership. Let's look at the pros and cons of continuing our connection with NATO. At this writing, we have already sacrificed one plane, and perhaps its pilot as well. Only President Clinton's fear of voter reaction stands in the way of full commitment of our troops and the potential loss of thousands of American lives. A US withdrawal from NATO would bring our involvement to a screeching halt.
While we can argue over the levels of security spending required to balance against Russia, which due to its nationalist form of government and need to reassert itself within international politics, remains somewhat a threat, ultimately, NATO as an organisation is declining in its military capability. That said despite these doom and gloom predictions for NATO’s survival, it continues to persist, thrive and grow. Not only do many states such as Georgia and Ukraine actively want to join, but NATO conducts more and more varied missions now than at any time in the Cold War.
Thus it was that, when the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was created by a treaty among the US, England, France, and other North Atlantic states, there was little opposition to the Senate ratification of the treaty in 1949. At this writing, we have already sacrificed one plane, and perhaps its pilot as well. Only President Clinton's fear of voter reaction stands in the way of full commitment of our troops and the potential loss of thousands of American lives. A US withdrawal from NATO would bring our involvement to a screeching halt.
In a post-Cold War era we can make a simple observation. NATO was established to contain the Soviet Union, and did so effectively. However, now that the Soviet Union has collapsed, the containing role for NATO has disappeared, and thus so has the role for the body. While Russia is still a threat, the level of threat it poses cannot justify a full security organization and its accompanying costs. That said despite these doom and gloom predictions for NATO’s survival, it continues to persist, thrive and grow. Not only do many states such as Georgia and Ukraine actively want to join, but NATO conducts more and more varied missions now than at any time in the Cold War.
Instability in distant countries enables transnational terrorist groups to find safe havens and launch attacks close to home. In such a world, we need strong alliances and partnerships — and none is stronger and more needed than today’s NATO. That is why it is so important that all of the alliance’s members invest in and possess the defense capabilities necessary to meet our collective responsibilities. NATO is, as President Obama has said, “the most successful alliance in human history.” During its first 40 years, it won the Cold War. In the next 20, it secured an enduring European peace — not least by welcoming 12 new members through the enlargement process Mr. Wheatcroft so derides.