Oracle Coherence. vs. BlueTalon. Relational online analytical processing (ROLAP) is a form of online analytical processing (OLAP) that performs dynamic multidimensional analysis of data stored in a relational database rather than in a multidimensional database (which is usually considered the OLAP standard). Otherwise, the query is created on the fly from the user request. Microsoft Access's PivotTable is an example of a three-tiered architecture. Since ROLAP uses a relational database, it requires more processing time and/or disk space to perform some of the tasks that multidimensional databases are designed for.
Relational processing. - Relational processing: Relational processing refers to a form of gesture used in conversation to refer to some aspect of the content of a conversation. Glossary / Lexicon. - Relational processing: Relational processing refers to a form of gesture used in conversation to refer to some aspect of the content of a conversation.
Whitehead’s metaphysics are the ones most commonly referred to as “process-relational”; see especially his magnum opus Process and Reality: An Essay in Cosmology (Free Press, 1978) and the more elegant synopsis found in Part Three of Adventures of Ideas (Free Press, 1967). Process-relational theory on this blog. Some posts on this blog that have dealt with process-relational theory include the following, listed in chronological order. Many, though not all, of these refer to the debate between relational and object-oriented ontologies (mentioned above).
These clauses use relational Processes, which “serve to characterize and to identify” (H & M, p.210). These two categories may also be termed attributive, such as Taro characterized as a member of that class of beings called ’12 years olds’, and identifying, such as the identity of the person named ‘Taro’. 
Process-relational thought rejects the Cartesian idea that there are minds, or things that think, and bodies, or matter that only acts according to strict causal laws. Rather, the two are considered one and the same, or two aspects of the same evolving, processual reality. Process-relational theory on this blog. Some posts on this blog that have dealt with process-relational theory include the following, listed in chronological order. Many, though not all, of these refer to the debate between relational and object-oriented ontologies (mentioned above).
A relational database is a digital database whose organization is based on the relational model of data, as proposed by E.F. Codd in 1970. Codd's view of what qualifies as an RDBMS is summarized in Codd's 12 rules. A relational database has become the predominant type of database. Other models besides the relational model include the hierarchical database model and the network model.
At the core of process-relational thought is a focus on the world-making creativity of things: on how things become rather than what they are, on emergence rather than structure. Process-relational theory on this blog. Some posts on this blog that have dealt with process-relational theory include the following, listed in chronological order. Many, though not all, of these refer to the debate between relational and object-oriented ontologies (mentioned above).
Each database is a collection of tables, which are called relations, hence the name relational database. Each table is a metaphorical representation of an entity or object that is in a tabular format consisting of columns and rows. Codd's view of what qualifies as an RDBMS is summarized in Codd's 12 rules. A relational database has become the predominant type of database. Other models besides the relational model include the hierarchical database model and the network model.
“Process-relationalism” is thus intended to highlight the temporal dynamism, emergent relational systematicity, and inherently creative openness of a living universe composed of interactive events characterized by some measure of perception, responsiveness, “mind,” or subjectivity (or subjectivation). Process-relational theory on this blog. Some posts on this blog that have dealt with process-relational theory include the following, listed in chronological order. Many, though not all, of these refer to the debate between relational and object-oriented ontologies (mentioned above).