First Grade. According to the Arizona Education Code 15-821 (C), “a child is eligible for first grade if the child is six years of age. A child is deemed six years of age if the child reaches the age of six before September 1 of the current school year.
Children must be five years old by September 1 to start kindergarten in Georgia. They must be six years old by September 1 to start first grade in Georgia. Some states have later cut-off dates, allowing children to start kindergarten at age four.
Florida law (Section 1003.21(1)(a)2, Florida Statutes) specifies that children who have attained the age of five years on or before September 1 of the school year are eligible for admission to public kindergarten during that school year based on rules prescribed by the school board.
According to EC 48000[a], a child shall be admitted to a kindergarten maintained by the school district at the beginning of a school year, or at a later time in the same year if the child will have his or her fifth birthday on or before September 1 for the 2014-15 school year and thereafter.
You have to be 5 years old when you start kindergarten but some happen to start when they are 4 if there birthday is in the beginning of September if you just turned 5 yea … rs old after the beginning of September you have to wait a whole year to start kindergarten.
A child who was not age-eligible for kindergarten (that is, the child turned five after September 1 in the 2014-15 school year or thereafter) and who attended a California private school kindergarten for a year is viewed by the CDE as not legally enrolled in kindergarten, pursuant to EC Section 48000 requirements.
Most children go to some form of daycare before starting kindergarten at the age of 6. That year is to get the children used to the concept before starting real … school with longer hours and more work in year 1 (at seven years of age).
ARS 15-821C is the source of information for kindergarten entry age. It states that children must be five (5) years of age before September 1 to enter kindergarten. That means that a child must turn five on or before August 31, not on September 1. Kindergarten is not required in the state of Arizona.