Welcome to eBay Classifieds, your free, local classifieds site. eBay Classifieds offers a convenient, fun, and easy way for people in the same city to buy, sell, trade and help each other out. You might even find your next job here. Adopt a pet, and give them a new home where they can be loved. Your options are endless! 
Kijiji was made available to selected cities in the United States on June 29, 2007, but was changed to eBay Classifieds in 2010. Kijiji offers similar services and is seen as a competitor to Craigslist with the biggest differences being that Kijiji gets much less U.S. traffic and has an extensive pets section.
Kijiji, which made its debut in the United States in 2007 after becoming the No. 1 site in Canada, was viewed as eBay's challenger to Craigslist, the privately owned local classifieds site where consumers can find apartments, jobs, or clear out the contents of their garages. It's the difference between having a subsidiary trial brand versus leveraging the big brand.. EBay also said Tuesday it had launched mobile applications for Apple Inc's iPhone for the newly branded classifieds site, as well as an updated version for its global marketplaces site that allows selling.
TORONTO — If Kijiji is remembered at all in the United States, it is probably as one of eBay ’s unsuccessful attempts to challenge Craigslist in online classified ads. But in Canada, Kijiji is now practically synonymous with classifieds. More than 12 million people visit Kijiji’s site in Canada every month, three times the amount drawn to Craigslist in the country. The service is used by 42 percent of Canadians, according to comScore, making it one of country’s 10 most popular site
Kijiji is Canada’s most popular free, local classifieds site. Kijiji offers a convenient, fun, and easy way for people in the same city to buy, sell, trade and help each other out in areas such as goods, cars, services, housing and jobs. Kijiji is an environmentally friendly way to recycle things you no longer use without leaving your neighborhood. 1 Over 5.5 million active ads. 2  There are over 2 million different sellers on Kijiji with an ad on the site right now! 3  Every day, Kijiji ads receive over 375,000 replies (and that’s not counting phone calls or text messages)! 4  A new ad is posted in Buy and Sell every 1.4 seconds.
Intoko Spain merged with LoQUo, Intoko Germany merged with Kijiji Germany. Intoko Canada merged with Kijiji Canada. Intoko Turkey migrated to the Kijiji platform and is operating as Intoko.Kijiji.com.tr. Kijiji offers similar services and is seen as a competitor to Craigslist with the biggest differences being that Kijiji gets much less U.S. traffic and has an extensive pets section.
Kijiji (/kiːˈdʒiːdʒiː/ kee-JEE-jee; [kiˈʄiʄi] , village) is a centralized network of online urban communities for posting local online classified advertisements. It is a subsidiary of eBay launched in March 2005. Kijiji websites are available for more than 300 cities in Canada, Italy, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Kijiji offers similar services and is seen as a competitor to Craigslist with the biggest differences being that Kijiji gets much less U.S. traffic and has an extensive pets section.
Kijiji, a Flop in the U.S., Rules Online Classifieds in Canada. Janet Bannister, a general partner at a seed capital investment fund, founded Kijiji, a Canadian online classified service owned by eBay. Although Kijiji is now used by almost half of all Canadians, eBay continues to advertise it heavily. But in Canada, Kijiji is now practically synonymous with classifieds. More than 12 million people visit Kijiji’s site in Canada every month, three times the amount drawn to Craigslist in the country.
“Kijiji? What does it mean? And how do you pronounce it?” Kijiji (kee-gee-gee) means “village” in Swahili. We are your online village, connecting you with neighbors and offering you a free, easy and fun way to buy and sell and find apartments, jobs and services on a local level.