Scoliosis is a lateral (toward the side) curvature in the normally straight vertical line of the spine. When viewed from the side, the spine should show a mild roundness in the upper back and shows a degree of swayback (inward curvature) in the lower back. 
Dextroconvex scoliosis symptoms characterized by an “S” shape curvature of the spine (unlike the regular scoliosis with a “U” shape), which is in charge of the muscles spasms in thoracic area of the spine and in arms. In kids it may develop into a chronic scoliosis with severe shoulder pain. The dextroconvex thoracolumbar scoliosis describes the spread of muscle spasms over to the lumbar or lower back area. This is a huge region from the chest or upper back to the lower back, and the appropriate treatment should be assigned to avoid serious complications in the spine and the surrounding muscles.
Thoracolumbar scoliosis is an abnormal curvature of the spine that includes the vertebrae of the lower thoracic (mid-back) and upper lumbar (lower back) regions. This type of scoliosis is often congenital, which means that it forms during the third to sixth week in utero and is generally detectable at birth. 
Thoracolumbar scoliosis refers to a type of scoliosis, a disorder that is characterized by the abnormal curvature of the spine, in which the curve resides in the thoracic and lumbar portions of the spine. Thoracolumbar scoliosis occurs more often in females than in males. Thoracolumbar scoliosis may occur in women during pregnancy. Treatment for thoracolumbar scoliosis depends on both the cause and the severity of the curve. Scoliosis is a disorder characterized by an abnormal curvature of the spine.
The dextroconvex scoliosis definition describes the disorder as a unique form of scoliosis which refers to muscles spasms in the chest area; it is also known as dextroconvex thoracic scoliosis, where ‘thoracic’ links to chest region. The dextroconvex thoracolumbar scoliosis describes the spread of muscle spasms over to the lumbar or lower back area. This is a huge region from the chest or upper back to the lower back, and the appropriate treatment should be assigned to avoid serious complications in the spine and the surrounding muscles.
1 The thoracic (rib cage) portion of the spine has a normal forward curvature, called kyphosis, which has a normal range (20 to 50 degrees). 2  This forward curvature is matched by reverse curvatures (called lordosis or sway) in the cervical spine (the neck) and the lumbar spine (the low back). The normal spine, when viewed from the side, is not a straight line as it is when viewed from the front or back. 1 
Answering the question “what is scoliosis” is not difficult. It is simply unnatural curvature of the spine. Answering what its variations are is more complicated. As to types of scoliosis, they are primarily identified by the direction and/or type of the spinal curvature. Levonconvex Scoliosis is a spinal curve to the left, such as in the picture. It can take place in the thoracic or upper back, and the lumbar or lower back region
The standard definition of scoliosis is a curve of the spinal column to the left or right side of the body, dextroscoliosis is a specific term meaning scoliosis of the spine with a curvature of the spine to the right. Dextro is derived from the latin word dexter which means “on the right side”. Since the ribs attach to the thoracic spine the ribcage will deform as compensation from the curvature. In the lumbar spine, a dextroscoliosis can be called a dextroconvex scoliosis, lumbar dextroscoliosis or dextroscoliosis of the lumbar spine.