Coefficients in a chemical equation represent the number of units of the formula immediately following the coefficient that are involved in the balanced equation for the react … ion. 1 person found this useful. Answered. Coefficients are placed in front of the chemical formulas when balancing a chemical equation. Never change the subscripts in a formula in order to balance an equation.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The coefficient is the number that precedes a compound or element in an equation. It represents the number present in the reaction. It can be thought of as similar to a number [coefficient] outside parentheses in an algebra equation [i.e. 4(x+3)] since the coefficient is applied to all elements if it is written as an expansion. [i.e. Coefficients are placed in front of the chemical formulas when balancing a chemical equation. Never change the subscripts in a formula in order to balance
a.masses, in grams, of all reactants and products. b.relative numbers of moles of reactants and products. c.number of atoms in each compound in a reaction. d.number of valence electrons involved in the reaction. Add your answer. Source. 
Coefficients in a chemical equation represent the number of units of the formula immediately following the coefficient that are involved in the balanced equation for the react … ion. 1 person found this useful. Answered. Coefficients are placed in front of the chemical formulas when balancing a chemical equation. Never change the subscripts in a formula in order to balance an equation.
The chemical formulas on the left represent the starting substances, called reactants. The substances produced by the reaction are shown on the right, and are called products. The numbers in front of the formulas are called coefficients (the number '1' is usually omitted). Because atoms are neither created nor destroyed in a reaction, a chemical equation must have an equal number of atoms of each element on each side of the arrow (i.e. the equation is said to be 'balanced').
Step 3: Now calculate the number of atoms of each element on the reactants and products side. H 2 O (g) 2(g) + O 2(g). Step 4: Evaluate the unequal amounts of elements to follow with the law of the conservation of energy. We can see there are unequal amounts of oxygen in the water on the reactants side of the equation. An accurate chemical equation has the correct ratio of reactants and products called Coefficients. These are the numbers in front of the reactant or product. For instance, in the fruit salad analogy if two apples were used with one banana one fruit salad would form. Let A represent the apples B for banana and A 2 2 B.
The Meaning of a Chemical Equation. How to balance a modern chemical equation. The Law of Conservation of Mass. Return to Equations Menu. Chemical equations give information in two major areas. First, they tell us what substances are reacting (those being used up) and what substances are products (those being made). Second, the coefficients of a balanced equation tell us in what ratio the substances react or are produced
(September 2011). A chemical equation is the symbolic representation of a chemical reaction in the form of symbols and formulae, wherein the reactant entities are given on the left-hand side and the product entities on the right-hand side. 
Balancing Equations. Coefficients are used in the process of balancing equations, known as stoichiometry. We add coefficients to compounds in chemical equations to assure that the number of moles of each element is the same on both sides of the equation. 