pacinian corpuscle. An encapsulated nerve ending found in the dermis, subcutaneous tissue, and other connective tissue membranes; it is a sensory receptor for pressure. See also: corpuscle. 
Medical Definition of PACINIAN CORPUSCLE. : a pressure-sensitive mechanoreceptor that is an oval capsule terminating some sensory nerve fibers especially in the skin (as of the hands and feet)—see corpuscle of herbst. These corpuscles, now known as Pacinian corpuscles, had been originally described in 1741, but Pacini was the first to describe their distribution in the body, their microscopic structure, and their nerve connections. He also related the function of the corpuscles to the sensation of touch and deep pressure.
A mechanoreceptor is a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion. Normally there are four main types in glabrous skin: Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's discs, and Ruffini endings. 
1. One of the four major types of mechanoreceptor. They are nerve endings in the skin responsible for sensitivity to vibration and pressure. Vibrational role may be used to detect surface, e.g., rough vs. smooth. Lamellar corpuscles are also found in the pancreas, where they detect vibration and possibly very low frequency sounds. (wikipedia.org). 2.
A mechanoreceptor is a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion. There are four main types in the glabrous skin of humans: Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's discs, and Ruffini corpuscles. A Pacinian corpuscle is an onion-shaped structure of nonneural ... The Pacinian corpuscles, elaborate structures found in the skin of the fingers ... Deep pressure is perceived mainly by the Pacinian corpuscles. ... The Pacinian corpuscles in joints provide the CNS with information on the ... Pacinian corpuscle-Definition of Pacinian corpuscle at Dictionary.com a free ..
Definition of Pacinian corpuscle in the Online Dictionary. Meaning of Pacinian corpuscle. ... Pacinian corpuscle-a specialized bulblike nerve ending located in the ... Definition of Pacinian corpuscles in the Online Dictionary. Meaning of Pacinian corpuscles. ... Pacinian corpuscles. Also found in: Medical, Wikipedia. A Pacinian corpuscle is an onion-shaped structure of nonneural ... The Pacinian corpuscles, elaborate structures found in the skin of the fingers ... Deep pressure is perceived mainly by the Pacinian corpuscles. ... The Pacinian corpuscles in joints provide the CNS with information on the ... Pacinian corpuscle-Definition of Pacinian corpuscle at Dictionary.com a free ..
Two examples are given here to represent the general properties of receptors: the Pacinian corpuscle and the rods and cones in the eye. 1. The Pacinian corpuscle named by its Italian discoverer Filippo Pacini (si splendido uomo!*) is a 1 mm diameter skin receptor which enables us to perceive pressure and vibration. This is the receptor responsible for our awareness off smooth vs rough surfaces, shallow vs intense tactile sensation, etc. The Pacinian corpuscle is a good representative of receptors' specificity i.e. the response only takes place in the presence of specific stimuli such as pressure. Grazie, Filippo!**. 2. Rods and Cones are the two main specialised eye photon receptors and differ in their distribution and sensitivity.
corpuscle. n. 1. (Biology) any cell or similar minute body that is suspended in a fluid, esp any of the red blood corpuscles (erythrocytes) or white blood corpuscles (see leucocytes). 