Bokashi can be purchased as either a liquid starter or inoculated bran. You can make your own liquid Bokashi, and from liquid Bokashi you can make your own bran (see below for a how-to). I recommend purchasing a small batch of Bokashi bran first, then experiment with creating and breeding your own.
Bokashi is Japanese for fermented organic matter.. Bokashi composting is a safe, quick, and convenient way to compost in your kitchen, garage, or apartment, using a specific group of microorganisms to anaerobically ferment all food waste (including meat and dairy).
You can use bokashi bran in the garden directly, but it is more commonly used to inoculate batches of bokashi – kitchen scraps, compost, animal feed, or whatever type of bokashi you are making. Used for Bokashi Composting. To use bokashi bran in your bokashi bin, mix it with the ingredients you will ferment.
From Bokashicomposting.com we have the following description; “Bokashi composting is a safe, convenient, and quick way to compost food waste in your kitchen, garage, or apartment.”. To get started you need a special bokashi bucket that has a tight lid, and a spigot at the bottom to drain off liquids (pictured above).
Make your own free Bokashi starter. Source: http://bokashicomposting.com/. Making your own bokashi starter culture in place of commercially available EM is incredibly easy. My goal from the start was to produce bokashi compost without the use of expensive EM, bran or fancy buckets.
Make Your Own Liquid Bokashi. You can purchase Bokashi as a liquid starter, or you can make your own. All you need is rice, water, cows milk, and a bucket with a lid: 1  Rinse rice in a bowl with water, and collect the starchy water in your bucket.
Bokashi starter, often called Bokashi mix or Bokashi Bran is simply just oat bran or rice, molasses, salt, and ceramic powder, with EM-1® microbes growing on it. You can purchase the starter mix commercially or make it on your own.
Bokashi (also ‘EM Bokashi’) is a culture of micro-organisms (yeasts and bacteria) which ferment kitchen scraps, out-competing bacteria that would otherwise produce bad smells, and preserving the scraps until you’re ready to bury or compost them.