Whether they bill by the hour or by the case, defense lawyers typically want defendants to pay a retainer fee up front, before the attorney begins working on the case. For example, a lawyer who bills at the rate of $100 an hour may want clients to pay up front for 20 hours of the lawyer’s time, or $2,000. 
Axiom Legal Salary. Axiom Legal average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Axiom Legal salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Axiom Legal salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. 
But actually it's 10 times worse than any agency with the bullshit you have to put up with. Axiom was started several years ago by a former Davis Polk associate who claimed to hate the legal business and who thought he could compete against them with a new kind of firm. 
That is $1200 per day, which is an extremely high income for most talented people. Axiom gets $150/ hr. The attorney gets a tiny fraction of that…and no attorney who could get a job in a real firm or legal department would settle for that. I have only had experience with one lawyer who works at Axiom. Though I generally bill flat fees, I have an official hourly rate that is roughly 40 percent lower than a lawyer of comparable ability at a large firm. Even though I can undercut big firms on price and value, that’s not to say that I discount competition from them.
Team leaders are in the trenches calling the day-to-day shots and guiding their teams to do legal work as efficiently and effectively as possible. Team Leaders. Team Leaders. Axiom has a mix of both business and legal talent—alums of the nation’s best law firms and companies. And because we’re the only thing like us, positions with Axiom are hard-won. As Axiom’s in-house Tetris experts, they’re responsible for finding those rare attorneys with the magical mix of legal expertise and business approach to fill the unique demands of our engagements.
Tweet. Virtual law firm Axiom Law is posting some big gains since it opened in Washington, D.C., in January 2009 with just one lawyer. Axiom’s D.C. office now has 30 lawyers, and it projects 100 percent growth in the third quarter compared to the same period last year, the Washington Post reports. At Axiom, the lawyers work from home or at client’s offices, there are no partners, and the typical fees are $150 to $275 an hour. Axiom lawyers handle transactional matters, contracts and regulatory and compliance-related research. The firm has worked with a third of D.C.’s top 25 companies by revenue, the story says.
My guess is that, based on the salaries Axiom pays, that attorney is not an exception to the rule. I find this to be a really weak argument. $150 is a good salary. Even if the attorney is only pocketing $100 of that, it’s a good salary. That’s 200k salary per year at just 40hrs/week. I’m sorry, but law school just isn’t that hard. Though I generally bill flat fees, I have an official hourly rate that is roughly 40 percent lower than a lawyer of comparable ability at a large firm. Even though I can undercut big firms on price and value, that’s not to say that I discount competition from them.
Axiom Legal Solutions Salary. Axiom Legal Solutions average salary is $118,000, median salary is $130,000 with a salary range from $56,000 to $156,000. Axiom Legal Solutions salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Axiom Legal Solutions salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Axiom Legal Solutions salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
And with more than $100 million in revenues last year, that I can’t afford. Axiom isn’t the only model of its ilk. As I said, while I don’t put virtual law firms like VLP in the same category there’s also Clearspire, a shop that opened here in Washington D.C. last year and is described in more detail here. Though I generally bill flat fees, I have an official hourly rate that is roughly 40 percent lower than a lawyer of comparable ability at a large firm. Even though I can undercut big firms on price and value, that’s not to say that I discount competition from them.
First year corporate lawyers can earn as much as $105,000 at a small firm, and as much as $160,000 at a large firm. Competition for the best corporate law jobs is fierce, and the top companies can afford to be very picky. Public service lawyers make considerably less money than those in the corporate sector. In 2012, the average entry-level salary for a public defender was $50,500. An attorney with over 11 years of experience could expect to make $78,600 for the same position.