What should I be aware of? Depending on the age you bring your puppy home, most likely the first developmental stage you pup will go through is the fear imprint stage. During this stage, which begins at 8 weeks, and lasts till approximately 11 weeks old, your puppy will tend to stick close, following at your heels. 
I’ll cut straight to the chase and say you shouldn’t bring your puppy home until it’s at least 7 weeks old, with the recommended age universally agreed to be 8 weeks of age. If a breeder tries to convince you to take the puppy home before 8 weeks, it’s usually for selfish reasons such as financial savings and not wishing to invest time into care and socialization. So be very suspicious of the breeder if this is their wish.
There are some good reasons why you should not bring your new puppy home before he is 8 weeks old, but of course sometimes it just cannot be helped. A breeder may get taken into hospital, or even die, for example, and the distraught relatives need to rehome the puppies early. Resist the temptation. If a breeder asks you to take a puppy home at five to six weeks of age, be very suspicious. Only in the most dire circumstances should a breeder let puppies go this young. Bear in mind that some disreputable breeders will make up excuses to get rid of puppies when they get to this age.
It’s essential for a puppy to stay with their mother and litter-mates for the first 7 weeks MINIMUM of their life, but it’s universally agreed that 8 weeks is best. Therefore, you should never take a puppy before 8 weeks old. The reason you take your puppy to the vet within the first week home is so they can check for any birth defects, any hereditary disorders or abnormalities, and any internal or external parasites. It helps if you take a stool sample along to the first vet visit for this purpose.
Wait until the holiday is over to bring a puppy home. What you can do is take a picture of the puppy and put it in a card and give it to your kids. Write a little note saying in just a few weeks this puppy will be all ours!! A puppy should be at least 8-10 weeks old, no younger they need to learn things from their litter mates and mother. Silver Moon · 8 years ago. 
Bringing a puppy home at 8 weeks gives you just 4 weeks to do this, bringing one home at 10 weeks gives you only 2! Bringing the puppy home at 12 weeks means you’ve missed this critical period and socialization will now be much harder than it ever should have been. If a breeder tries to convince you to take the puppy home before 8 weeks, it’s usually for selfish reasons such as financial savings and not wishing to invest time into care and socialization. So be very suspicious of the breeder if this is their wish.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. Bringing home a new puppy is truly one of life's joys. Thoughtful pre-puppy preparations and a well-planned first 24 hours can give your fuzzy bundle of promise a head start and make your dreams of the perfect family dog come true.
Bringing home a puppy can be a stressful time for your pup. He’ll be in a strange environment away from his littermates and mother for the first time. There’ll be new people and new expectations. That’s why it’s important to take some time to prepare for your puppy. 
Ideally, the age to bring home a puppy is when he’s between seven and twelve weeks old. This is considered the critical socialization period in a puppy’s life, the time when he learns the most about his environment and begins to adjust to his surroundings. While bringing home a puppy during the seven week period is ideal, you shouldn’t worry too much if you’re adopting from a responsible breeder. If the breeder takes the time to properly socialize their puppies, the timing isn’t that important. Regardless of his age, you’ll be sure to find the right puppy for you.