This list includes many of the common large shrubs of Canada, as well as the trees. Many of the trees on this list are introduced as ornamentals or for food and are not common in Canada.
Comments. Submit. According to the United States Department of Agriculture website, homeowners select birch trees as ornamental species for different reasons. The bark of many kinds of birch trees is distinctive, coming in a variety of colors and textures that make the tree unique. The slender form of most birches appeals to landscapers. Paper birch is native to most of the far north in North America, from Alaska through Canada and into many of the northern states, so it is cold hardy. This species does not tolerate warm temperatures well, and in places where the summers are too hot, the tree will not thrive.
Also due to the vast area of Canada, a tree that is common in one area, may be completely absent or unable to grow in another area. In particular many warm-temperate trees can only be grown on the mild Pacific coast (where gardens may contain many additional species not listed here). See also Provincial tree emblems of Canada for the official trees of the Provinces and Territories of Canada. Many of the trees on this list are introduced as ornamentals or for food and are not common in Canada.
Other birches hail from Europe and North America, with some species occurring in the cooler montane regions of Central America and the northern Andes in South America. Birch trees reside in woodlands, moors, mountains and heathlands. Diversity. Worldwide, there are between 50 and 60 different species of birch trees. The birches that attain a more classic tree-like habit (some species are shrubs) range in mature height as short as 15 feet to as tall as 70 feet, according to the American Horticultural Society's A-Z Encyclopedia of Garden Plants..
Other common names: Canoe Birch, Paper Birch French names: Bouleau papier Family: Birch Family (Betulaceae) Group: Birches Distinctive features: Tree Similar species:  European White Birch (Betula pendula) - Branches are weeping (hanging down. Gray Birch (Betula populifolia) - A small tree; only in extreme eastern Ontario. Leaves: Alternate, Simple, Toothed Bark: Papery, white and peeling laterally.
A third species of birch tree growing in Alaska is Kenai birch, Betula kenaica, which grows on the Kenai Peninsula. Kenai birch is smaller in size than the other two species of birch trees in Alaska. Kenai birch’s relationship to other birch trees is not well known. It is thought to be most closely related to paper birch. Kimberley Maher: Birch — growing in the boreal forest. Birch is one of six types of trees that grow in the Alaskan boreal forest, or taiga. The circumpolar boreal forest, named after Boreas, the Greek god of the North Wind, is the largest terrestrial biome on earth and reaches across Canada, Scandinavia, and Siberia.
Betula species such as river birch trees (Betula nigra) can be excellent selections for fall-foliage specimens. Below I introduce several members of this species. The purpose of this article is to suggest to homeowners possible trees to grow to achieve maximum autumn color in the yard. In addition to its white bark and yellow fall foliage, the form of this tree provides landscaping interest. As suggested by its name, the branches of this birch tree droop, or “weep” down towards the ground (you can read about other such weeping trees here). Plant it in full sun to partial shade.
Range map for White Birch (Betula papyrifera). PLEASE NOTE: A coloured Province or State means this species occurs somewhere in that Province/State. The entire Province/State is coloured, regardless of where in that Province/State it occurs. Gray Birch (Betula populifolia) - A small tree; only in extreme eastern Ontario. Leaves: Alternate, Simple, Toothed Bark: Papery, white and peeling laterally.
Geographic Origins. All birches are native to the temperate, boreal or Arctic regions of the Northern Hemisphere. In Asia, the various tree species grow naturally in Afghanistan, China, Japan, Kazakhstan, Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Nepal and Russian Siberia. Diversity. Worldwide, there are between 50 and 60 different species of birch trees. The birches that attain a more classic tree-like habit (some species are shrubs) range in mature height as short as 15 feet to as tall as 70 feet, according to the American Horticultural Society's A-Z Encyclopedia of Garden Plants..