The name of the store is Royal Metals on Etsy. Their silver-filled has a 10% sterling silver layer bonded to a brass core (90/10), which shows as silver colored when cut. I hope I've helped you to understand a little more about what silver-filled jewelry is. This does not happen with silver-filled metals. The bonded layer is thick enough to withstand small nicks, and it will never wear off. If you are allergic to silver-plate but are able to wear sterling silver, you should also be able to wear silver-filled without causing an allergic reaction.
YES! Silver filled wire can be tumbled, just like sterling silver. You can use liver of sulfur to tumble your silver filled wire just like with sterling silver, and you can solder it with silver solder. Anything you could do with sterling silver, you can do with silver fill wire. Silver filled wire is brand-new to the jewelry market! It is made up of an everlasting outer layer of sterling silver and surrounded by a copper alloy core. Silver filled wire is coated with an anti tarnish product so as to safeguard the wire against tarnishing
When solid gold is out of our price range, gold-filled is a more than acceptable substitute. You can think of silver-filled the same way. It is either a 5% or 10% layer of durable sterling silver bonded to (filled with) a copper-alloy or brass-alloy center. This does not happen with silver-filled metals. The bonded layer is thick enough to withstand small nicks, and it will never wear off. If you are allergic to silver-plate but are able to wear sterling silver, you should also be able to wear silver-filled without causing an allergic reaction.
Square Silver Filled Wire. There are many similarities between sterling silver, Argentium® and silver filled wire. Silver filled wire can be use just like sterling silver, and is even non-allergenic like sterling silver. If you're typically allergic to plated jewelry then silver filled wire is ideal for you. Silver filled wire is comparable to Argentium® as they have many of the same qualities. Most silver filled wire has only 5% silver around the red brass alloy core, but ours is 10% silver. When you cut silver filled wire you will be able to see the red brass alloy core, but this will add character and dimension to your wire jewelry projects.
The 0.925/40 designation for sterling silver filled wire means it is 1/40th sterling silver. The name sterling silver filled wire does not imply it is solid sterling silver but refers to the type of silver used to coat the core. Sterling silver is 92.5% silver and 7.5% copper hence the 0.925 designation. It's like what you see for gold filled wire - 10/20, 12/20 and 14/20. Gold filled has to be 1/20th by weight to qualify as gold filled. The numbers 10,12 and 14 refer to the karat value. 
Fine silver is marked .999 = 100% silver. Also called pure silver. Sterling silver is an alloy and is marked .925 = 92.5% silver and 7.5% other metals, usually copper. Argentium® sterling silver is a trademarked brand of sterling silver that resists firestain and tarnish. Not to be confused with Argentium Argentine Plate or Argentum which are nickel alloys containing no silver. Items I have seen marked silver filled are vintage charms as well as religious and military medals. Silver Plate/d is another material, brass/pewter/white metal/plastic etc, that is plated with a layer of pure silver. Vermeil (vermay) is sterling silver that is plated or coated with gold.
The new line of. silver filled items that Rings & Things carries contains 1/10th sterling silver by weight. As with gold fill, the sterling silver layer is hundreds of times thicker than a silver plating. Silver filled wire can be manipulated just like sterling silver wire. The silver is bonded to the core metal and does not flake off the way a plating might. The law, gold filled items must be at least 1/20th gold by weight. Silver filled beads are indistinguishable from. sterling silver beads. Silver filled jewelry findings are created the same way, but as of date, there are no industry standards for silver fill, which can make it hard to tell what you’re getting.
As I keep adding new silver filled items, I get a lot of emails asking what silver filled is. Silver filled is just like gold filled but in silver. There is a thick layer of .925 or better sterling silver mechanically bonded to brass, above we're showing a bead. Silver filled is 1/10 or 10% by weight sterling silver. Silver filled is hundreds of times thicker than regular silver plate and looks just like solid sterling silver. Silver filled also tarnishes less than sterling and if it does tarnish, cleans up easier than sterling silver. 
It does make silver jewelry much more affordable! Silver-filled is a great alternative to sterling silver for the budget-conscious buyer, and it is just as pretty and durable. As of 1/8/2011, sterling silver is more than triple the price of silver-filled. That can make a big difference in the price of the finished jewelry that you buy. This does not happen with silver-filled metals. The bonded layer is thick enough to withstand small nicks, and it will never wear off. If you are allergic to silver-plate but are able to wear sterling silver, you should also be able to wear silver-filled without causing an allergic reaction.