The main causes of chronic atrophic gastritis and gastric atrophy are autoimmune due to pernicious anemia or chronic Helicobacter pylori infection. In the former condition, there is severe atrophy of the corpus (oxyntic mucosa), with the antrum being speared. In contrast, chronic atrophic gastritis consequent to H. pylori infection is a multifocal pangastritis, involving independent foci in the corpus and antrum of the stomach.
Background. Atrophic gastritis is a histopathologic entity characterized by chronic inflammation of the gastric mucosa with loss of gastric glandular cells and replacement by intestinal-type epithelium, pyloric-type glands, and fibrous tissue. The second is multifocal atrophic gastritis. Involvement of the corpus, fundus, and gastric antrum with progressive development of gastric atrophy (ie, loss of gastric glands) and partial replacement of gastric glands by intestinal-type epithelium (intestinal metaplasia) characterize multifocal atrophic gastritis.
Gastric atrophy: A condition in which the stomach muscles shrink and become weak. Gastric atrophy may result in a lack of digestive juices due to accompanying shrinkage of the digestive glands. 
Description of Gastric atrophy. Gastric atrophy: A condition in which the stomach muscles shrink and become weak. The digestive (peptic) glands may also shrink, resulting in a lack of digestive juices. Source: National Institute of Health
Atrophic gastritis (also known as Type A or Type B Gastritis more specifically) is a process of chronic inflammation of the stomach mucosa, leading to loss of gastric glandular cells and their eventual replacement by intestinal and fibrous tissues. Type A gastritis primarily affects the body/fundus of the stomach, and is more common with pernicious anemia. Type B gastritis primarily affects the antrum, and is more common with H. pylori infection.
Stomach atrophy and stomach ulcers are two different pathologic processes, and these terms should not be used interchangeably to describe the appearance of the stomach. A stomach ulcer occurs when there is a localized breakdown in the protective lining of the stomach. Typically ulcers are brought about by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents or a bacterial infection known as Helicobacter pylori in the setting of weakened acid defense system. Stomach atrophy is an often-used term to describe the process of atrophic gastritis. This refers to a chronic state of inflammation of the lining of the stomach, in which the normal cells and glands are eventually replaced by fibrotic tissue and cells typically found in the intestine
A-Atrophic gastritis (atrophy of the stomach) is a common condition in older people and, in most of them, it causes few or no problems. The condition is characterized by inflammation and atrophy (which means. ``to waste away`` or ``fail to grow``) of the lining of the stomach, not the stomach as a whole. The inflammation is accompanied by a shortage in hydrochloric acid, one of the acids the stomach secretes to digest food, as the amount of acid producing tissue is reduced.