Proper Height. A stair rail must be between 34 and 38 inches above the top of the stair tread at all times to meet United States building code requirements. It should also extend a foot before and after the stairs, for added safety. The extension is not required for private stairways. 
Bottom Line. Install stair handrails at the height suggested by national and state building codes, which is 30 to 34 inches. If no codes regulate stair handrail height in your area, you have the freedom to install the rails at a different height, but as suggested, 36 to 40 inches is the best for preventing falls. Building Codes. National and state building codes suggest a handrail height of 30 to 34 inches, which is 2 to 6 inches shorter than the suggested height for safety. If you are installing stairs, however, you must obey building codes and set the handrail height accordingly.
In all buildings, handrail heights should be between 900mm and 1000mm measured from the pitch line to the top of the handrail. Lay a straight edge, long enough to cover several steps, on the stairs. The pitch line will be the underside of the straight edge (assuming no carpets are fitted). See below. Stairs should have a handrail on at least one side if they are less than 1m wide. They should have a handrail on both sides if they are wider. You do not need a handrail on the first two steps up.
3.6 Wall-mounted handrails. The space between the handrail and the wall should be between 40 mm and 50 mm for smooth walls and 60 mm for rough textured walls (fig. 5). Where handrails are fully recessed into walls, a space of at least 0.15 m should be allowed between the top of the rail and the top of the recess (fig. 6). For stairs or ramps more than 3.00 m wide, a continuous intermediate handrail could be provided (see Ramps; Stairs). 3.6 Wall-mounted handrails The space between the handrail and the wall should be between 40 mm and 50 mm for smooth walls and 60 mm for rough textured walls (fig.
Stair handrails are in place so you have something to grasp while using the stairs. It is important to have the rail at a comfortable height to prevent falls. According to Human Cornell, a handrail height of 36 to 40 inches is most effective in preventing falls when descending stairs. Building Codes. National and state building codes suggest a handrail height of 30 to 34 inches, which is 2 to 6 inches shorter than the suggested height for safety. If you are installing stairs, however, you must obey building codes and set the handrail height accordingly.
To meet building code requirements, the rail should be mounted so that the top is 34 to 38 in. above the front edge of the stair nosings. We chose 36 in. Photo 2 shows how to find this point at the top of the stair. Repeat the process on the bottom step. Later you'll align the top of the rail with these marks and locate the rail brackets (Photo 7). Then you'll use the mark at the top to position the rail before you attach it to the brackets (Photo 7, close-up). Since the rail runs parallel to the stairs, you can use the stair noses as a guide for cutting the rail to the right length and figuring the top angle (Photos 3 – 5). Start by cutting a 45-degree angle on one end of the rail.
IMPORTANT! For handrail, mounted to the wall on a staircase, we need to know on which side of the stairs the handrail is to be mounted when you are looking up the stairs. If stair rail is to be fastened to a wall as well as to the steps, we will need precise measurements. Please enlarge this diagram so you can see how to determine the height that you will want your railing to be. ►► Please scroll down for links to the pages on this site.
The next step is to cut the rail and glue on the short horizontal section at the top. Since the rail runs parallel to the stairs, you can use the stair noses as a guide for cutting the rail to the right length and figuring the top angle (Photos 3 – 5). Start by cutting a 45-degree angle on one end of the rail. This cut is for the short return to the wall
Step 1. Gather the following tools: stud finder, tape measure, a few screws, a length of string as long as the stairs, pencil, level, drill, clamp, and screwdriver. Each bracket should be installed in a stud, so start by using the stud finder to locate the first one. 