Skeletal muscles that cramp the most often are the calves, thighs, and arches of the foot, and are sometimes called a  Charley horse  or a corkie. Such cramping is associated with strenuous physical activity and can be intensely painful; however, they can even occur while inactive/relaxed. Skeletal muscle cramps may be caused by any combination of muscle fatigue, a lack of electrolytes (e.g., low sodium, low potassium, or low magnesium) . Cramps of smooth muscle may be due to menstruation or gastroenteritis.
Muscle cramps can also occur as a side effect of some drugs. Medications that can cause muscle cramps include: 1  Lasix (furosemide), Microzide (hydrochlorothiazide), and other diuretics (water pills) used to remove fluid from the body. 2  Aricept (donepezil), used to treat Alzheimer's disease. For a charley horse in the calf or a cramp in the back of the thigh (hamstring), try putting your weight on the affected leg and bending your knee slightly, or sit or lie down with your leg out straight and pull the top of your foot toward your head.
Muscle cramps are sudden, involuntary contractions that occur in various muscles. These contractions are often painful and can affect different muscle groups. Commonly affected muscles include those in the back of your lower leg, the back of your thigh, and the front of your thigh. How to Prevent Muscle Cramps. The simplest way to prevent muscle cramps is to avoid or limit the exercises that strain your muscles and cause cramps. You can take steps to prevent muscle cramps. It is important to stretch or warm up before participating in sports and exercising.
Cramps may occur in a skeletal muscle or smooth muscle. Skeletal muscle cramps may be caused by any combination of muscle fatigue, a lack of electrolytes (e.g., low sodium, low potassium, or low magnesium) . Cramps of smooth muscle may be due to menstruation or gastroenteritis.
Muscle cramps result from an involuntary contraction of the skeletal muscles and are a common symptom of dehydration, fatigue, poor circulation, and nerve compression. Muscle fatigue from improper conditioning or prolonged exercise is a common cause of muscle cramps. Other common causes include sitting in one place for a long period of time and vascular disorders, both of which decrease blood circulation to the muscles. Muscle cramps may be a sign of dehydration and electrolyte imbalances, which can result in shock or coma and may be life threatening. Seek immediate medical care (call 911) if you, or someone you are with, have symptoms of severe dehydration, such as loss of consciousness and no urine production.
Treatment of a Muscle Spasm. When muscle cramps occur, there are several things you can do to help ease them, such as massaging, stretching, or icing the muscle, warming the muscle, or taking a bath with Epsom salt. For a charley horse in the calf or a cramp in the back of the thigh (hamstring), try putting your weight on the affected leg and bending your knee slightly, or sit or lie down with your leg out straight and pull the top of your foot toward your head.
Muscle relaxant medications may be used over the short-term in certain situations to relax muscle cramps due to an injury or other temporary event. These medications include cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril), orphenadrine (Norflex), and baclofen (Lioresal). It is uncommon for muscle cramps to occur as the result of a medical condition without other obvious signs that the medical condition is present. Cramps are inevitable, but if possible, it would be best to prevent them.
A cramp is a sudden, and involuntary muscle contraction or over-shortening; while generally temporary and non-damaging, they can cause mild-to-excruciating pain, and a paralysis-like immobility of the affected muscle(s). Skeletal muscle cramps may be caused by any combination of muscle fatigue, a lack of electrolytes (e.g., low sodium, low potassium, or low magnesium) . Cramps of smooth muscle may be due to menstruation or gastroenteritis.
Causes. Muscle cramps are common and often occur when a muscle is overused or injured. Working out when you have not had enough fluids (dehydration) or when you have low levels of minerals such as potassium or calcium can also make you more likely to have a muscle spasm. 
A spasm is a sudden, involuntary contraction of a muscle, a group of muscles, or a hollow organ such as a heart, or a similarly sudden contraction of an orifice. It most commonly refers to a muscle cramp which is often accompanied by a sudden burst of pain, but is usually harmless and ceases after a few minutes. There are a variety of other causes of involuntary muscle contractions, which may be more serious, depending on the cause.