Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. is the second-largest tax-preparation service in the United States; responsible for preparing over 2.5 million computerized federal, state, and local individual income-tax returns each year. 
I would like to get a breakdown of prices per form, if possible. ... show more I am thinking about starting up my own tax business this spring. In my brochure, I want to list my prices next to those charged by Jackson Hewitt and H&R Block.
$450 at Jackson Hewitt. Whoever did the research for this article didn’t do any research for this article. All you have to do is google tax preparation fees, and you will find several articles that show the average fee is $200. This is the fee many of the companies listed in this article charge. 
Professionals will also look over tax returns from the previous two years to check accuracy. Additionally, if your taxes are prepared by Jackson Hewitt and you are audited, a Jackson Hewitt professional will appear with you at the audit to explain your tax return, free of charge. Professional tax preparation is a common choice, but not one without downfalls. A professional tax preparer charges an average of $129 for basic federal and state returns and $229 for itemized returns. You may be better off financially if you do your own taxes.
Get tax advice from Jackson Hewitt Tax Service professionals who can answer all your federal and state income tax questions. 1 If you do not receive your W-2 mid-February, then contact your employer for more information. 2  Jackson Hewitt may be able to download your W-2, and complete and file your income tax return before it arrives by mail. 3  Contact your neighborhood Jackson Hewitt office at 1-800-234-1040, or use our Office Locator
1 The cost of income tax preparation is based on the complexity of your tax return and the products and services you choose in addition to tax preparation. 2  Call your neighborhood Jackson Hewitt Tax Service office to discuss your tax situation. 3  1-800-234-1040, or use our Office Locator. 1 If you do not receive your W-2 mid-February, then contact your employer for more information. 2  Jackson Hewitt may be able to download your W-2, and complete and file your income tax return before it arrives by mail. 3  Contact your neighborhood Jackson Hewitt office at
Well I can't answer for Jackson Hewitt but I can for H&R Block I work at the 52 Duane Street in lower Manhattan give me a call (212)693-1680 and ask for Miguel. We will setup a meeting free of charge and I will give you an exact price of the return no obligations to complete the return. It depends on what is in your return. They also have a special going that they'll do your return for $50 less than what you paid someone else last year. Most franchises are participating, but you can call your local one to make sure. Source(s): 4 year Jackson Hewitt preparer.
Answers. Best Answer: Jackson Hewitt is franchised, so it varies from location to location. Our Franchise in Utah averages from $80 for a basic 1-W2 return up to $300 for Small Business, Itemized and a few other forms. It depends on what is in your return. They also have a special going that they'll do your return for $50 less than what you paid someone else last year. Most franchises are participating, but you can call your local one to make sure. Source(s): 4 year Jackson Hewitt preparer.