AP. WASHINGTON, Aug. 15— The Environmental Protection Agency today proposed to ban creosote in almost every use except as a wood preservative, because of the cancer risk it is believed to pose. Creosote and related products covered by the proposed ban-coal tar and coal tar neutral oil-are used as herbicides in gardens and on highway rights of way, to control fungus on canvas and rope and as insecticides to control gypsy moths, screwworms and mosquitoes.
Creosote is the name used for a variety of products: wood creosote, coal tar creosote, coal tar, coal tar pitch and coal tar pitch volatiles. These products are mixtures of many chemicals created by burning beech and other woods or coal, or from the resin of creosote bushes. 1 Wood treated with creosote that is in use in this state as of such date may continue to be used in such use. 2  Creosote or products containing creosote from New York State may be used in another state in accordance with that state's laws and regulations.
Creosote. Summary: Creosote is the name used for a variety of products: wood creosote, coal tar creosote, coal tar, coal tar pitch, and coal tar pitch volatiles. These products are mixtures of many chemicals created by high-temperature treatment of beech and other woods, coal, or from the resin of the creosote bush. 
Creosote is the name used for a variety of products that are mixtures of many chemicals. Wood creosotes are derived from the resin from leaves of the creosote bush (Larrea, referred to herein as creosote bush resin) and beechwood (Fagus, referred to herein as beechwood creosote). Creosotes are created by high-temperature treatment of beech and other woods (beechwood creosote) or coal (coal tar creosote), or from the resin of the creosote bush (creosote bush resin). Wood creosote is a colorless to yellowish greasy liquid with a characteristic smoky odor and sharp burned taste.
The European Commission has banned the sale of creosote-treated wood after it was found that there could be a cancer risk. Scientists carrying out a study for the commission have found that creosote is much more hazardous than originally thought. 
Due to its carcinogenic character, the European Union has banned the sale of creosote treated wood in many settings. Coal tar products are also used in medicines to treat diseases such as psoriasis, and as animal and bird repellents, insecticides, animal dips, and fungicides. This is very very unlikely to be the creosote made from coal tar that goes on sleepers and other wood products It is very very likely to be creosote extract from the creosote bush which is a very different and natural product with a long history of medicinal use particularly for inhalation.
The European Union has banned creosote! Despite the fact that it's a well tried and trusted stuff and has been in use as a wood preservative for centuries, it's now been banned. The reason appears to be some sort of perceived health risk. black stuff for preserving wood. Creosote is wood preservative stuff which protects wood from various types of pestilential insects that eat wood. The term Creosote refers to the two main types of creosote: Wood Creosote and Coal Tar Creosote. Wood creosote is derived from trees of a particular type, by a process of distillation
On June 30th 2003, European Union rules banned the sale of creosote to consumers, because of fears that it is carcinogenic. An EU scientific committee has warned that the potential of creosote to cause cancer is greater than previously thought. 