Tibia (Shinbone) Shaft Fractures. The tibia, or shinbone, is the most common fractured long bone in your body. The long bones include the femur, humerus, tibia, and fibula. A tibial shaft fracture occurs along the length of the bone, below the knee and above the ankle. Because it typically takes a major force to break a long bone, other injuries often occur with these types of fractures.
- Rx: w/ a patella tendon bearing cast. - 100 consecutive fractures managed by reduction and long leg cast immobilization for 2 to 4 weeks, then application of the PTB cast; - all fractures united, with closed fractures uniting in an average of 13.6 weeks and open fractures in an average of 16.7 weeks; Effects of tibial malalignment on the knee and ankle. No arthrosis of the ankle 20 years after malaligned tibial-shaft fracture. Cast brace treatment of proximal tibia fractures. A ten-year follow-up study. Tibial fracture stability. Analysis of external fracture immobilization in anatomic specimens in casts and braces.
In adults, it can take several weeks, or even months, for a fracture to heal fully. If a fracture is very slow to heal, this is called a ‘delayed union’. Even after your cast, brace or metal rods have been removed, you may not be able to go back to your usual activity for a few weeks. 
6 wks w/ proper care: Most fractures take approximately 6 weeks to heal assuming proper care. Although a non-weight bearing bone, fibula fractures can be painful with certain motions; be sure to get it properly evaluated and treated. See your doctor (family doctor, internist or orthopedic surgeon) for best results. IF it needs surgery it will take anywhere from 8-12 weeks. If it is a simple non-dispalced fibula fracture at the distal ankle you may be back as early as 6-8 weeks. fractures in general take 8 weeks to heal.
Depends on the: fracture. IF it needs surgery it will take anywhere from 8-12 weeks. If it is a simple non-dispalced fibula fracture at the distal ankle you may be back as early as 6-8 weeks. fractures in general take 8 weeks to heal. ...Read mo
Your child should avoid high-impact, contact sports for a minimum of 4 to 6 weeks after removing the cast. Your child will gradually gain confidence in the leg and will return to regular activities. If you have any concerns, contact your family doctor or the Advanced Practice Nurse (APN) at the fracture clinic. Whether your child needs a cast or not depends on the location and nature of the fracture. Your child may need a partial, complete, or air cast. If your child needs a cast, it may be put on in the Emergency Department.
Casting. Initially, all tibial shaft fractures should be stabilized with a long posterior splint with the knee in 10-15° of flexion and the ankle flexed at 90°. Admission to the hospital may also be necessary to control pain and to monitor closely for compartment syndrome. Infection after internal fixation of an open tibial shaft fracture. A common and frustrating complication of tibial fractures is nonunion, defined as a fracture that has been present for 9 months with no visible signs of healing for the past 3 months.