8 Tips to Building a Low-Cost Cabin. As inexpensive and affordable as a log cabin is, you can make it even cheaper with a little pre-planning. Here are eight tips you should follow to maximize your cabin construction budget. 1. Keep it simple with a small footprint. And stick to the stock floor plan — customizing a cabin can add costs in a hurry.
The average cost to build a log home in the U.S. is approximately *$150.00-$200.00+ per square foot turnkey. The square footage you need to be concerned with is the actual living area on the main and second floor if applicable. 2- Do the work yourself if you have the time and knowledge. 30-40 percent of the final cost of a log home is labor. 3- Serve as your own general contractor, but keep in mind that you will need to hire and schedule all subcontractors.
The money you think you have saved at one phase may cost you at another. 2- Do the work yourself if you have the time and knowledge. 30-40 percent of the final cost of a log home is labor. 3- Serve as your own general contractor, but keep in mind that you will need to hire and schedule all subcontractors.
*** Note: covered decks can cost anywhere from $25.00 to $35.00 per square foot. The term turnkey means that the home has been constructed to a move-in state. Turnkey cost does not include the cost for the land or any site improvements such as installation of utilities, landscaping, road building, etc.. 2- Do the work yourself if you have the time and knowledge. 30-40 percent of the final cost of a log home is labor. 3- Serve as your own general contractor, but keep in mind that you will need to hire and schedule all subcontractors.
1 Estimates of the average cost for labor and materials to have a log home built (either custom or from a kit) range from $90-$150 a square foot, depending on location, quality of materials and the complexity of the project, plus $35-$55 a square foot for basement or garage spaces. 1 For details see How Much Does Wood Flooring Cost, How Much Do Windows Cost, and How Much Do Doors Cost. 2  Log homes require regular maintenance, with a preservative/sealant stain applied every three to five years. 3  The logs should be inspected annually for excessive cracking.
For instance, in some parts of the country log homes can cost $350.00 or higher per square foot. Log Home Cost Savings Suggestions. Here is a list of suggestions that can help you reduce the final cost of a log home. 2- Do the work yourself if you have the time and knowledge. 30-40 percent of the final cost of a log home is labor. 3- Serve as your own general contractor, but keep in mind that you will need to hire and schedule all subcontractors.
As a very rough “Rule of thumb” a fully built and fitted out log cabin should cost approximately twice the basic materials cost, ie if the kit cost is £50,000, then labour and materials to build it should be another £50,000. This estimate does not include the cost of land, groundworks and services. 
1 Costs for a permit range from a few hundred dollars to thousands of dollars. 2  It's possible to build a log home without prior building experience, but training is required. 3  Several companies offer classes, and costs can range from $800-$4,500 or more. 1 For details see How Much Does Wood Flooring Cost, How Much Do Windows Cost, and How Much Do Doors Cost. 2  Log homes require regular maintenance, with a preservative/sealant stain applied every three to five years. 3  The logs should be inspected annually for excessive cracking.
This is not an accurate way to judge the cost of your finished log home. For instance, one package may sell for $30,000 and another of $60,000, but the less expensive package may well have fewer materials furnished. Thus you have a range of $90,000 to 180,000 for a completed home which are both the same size. Thus, where you plan to build is a major consideration when the cost of a log home is analyzed. Other considerations to consider are: 1) The type of log home you intend to build. Will it be a precut package, a custom hand-crafter log home or random length logs from a local sawmill.
1 Many regions require a building permit for a log cabin home. 2  Costs for a permit range from a few hundred dollars to thousands of dollars. 3  It's possible to build a log home without prior building experience, but training is required. 4  Several companies offer classes, and costs can range from $800-$4,500 or more. 1 For details see How Much Does Wood Flooring Cost, How Much Do Windows Cost, and How Much Do Doors Cost. 2  Log homes require regular maintenance, with a preservative/sealant stain applied every three to five years. 3  The logs should be inspected annually for excessive cracking.