The Hanukkah menorah or chanukiah (Hebrew: מנורת חנוכה ‎ menorat ḥanukkah, pl. Many museums have notable collections of Hanukkah menorot, including the Israel Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Jewish Museum, which owns the Lindo lamp. Outside of the Knesset, or Israeli parliament, there is a 5 meter high bronze menorah called the Knesset Menorah.
Petrushkin петрушкин. This patronymic surname is derived from Petrushka, a diminutive form of the men's name Petr. It is also suggested that the name can derive from the term petrushka, meaning parsley. lEnglish spelling variants include: Petrooshkin, Patruskin. This patronymic surname is derived from Sauta, a diminutive form of the men's name Savva. It is also suggested that the name can derive from the dialect term sautka, meaning duck. lEnglish spelling variants include: Sauten, Saootin.
Russian naming conventions for mid to late period are first name, patronymic, and surname (1989: 4). More precisely, Russian names started only as a given name, adding the patronymic around the 10th century, and finally the surname (from the patronymic constructions) only in the late 15th or early 16th century. The result was an apparent double given name. Tupikov (1903: 18) argues that the second given name may in fact have been a nickname and may have been used more commonly in everyday conversation than the first
Klenin кленин. Th is surname is derived from klen, meaning maple tree and may refer to someone who lived near a maple tree. It also suggested that the name can derive from Klenya, a diminutive form of the Old Russian men's name Kleonik. This patronymic surname is derived from Sauta, a diminutive form of the men's name Savva. It is also suggested that the name can derive from the dialect term sautka, meaning duck. lEnglish spelling variants include: Sauten, Saootin.
Sosin сосин. Thi s patronymic surname is derived from Sosa, a diminutive form of the men's name Sosipatr. It is also suggested that the name can derive from the dialect term sosya, meaning a thumb-sucking child. This patronymic surname is derived from Sauta, a diminutive form of the men's name Savva. It is also suggested that the name can derive from the dialect term sautka, meaning duck. lEnglish spelling variants include: Sauten, Saootin.
By Ariela Pelaia. Definition: A hanukkiyah is a candelabrum with eight candleholders in a row and a ninth candleholder set a little above the others. It's different from a menorah, which has seven branches and was used in the Temple before it was destroyed in 70 CE. A hanukkiyah is nevertheless a kind of menorah. In commemoration of this event Hanukkah is celebrated for eight days and a candle is lit on the hanukkiyah on each of those days. One candle is lit the first night, two the second, and so on, until the final night when all the candles are lit.
The lamp is most commonly called a Hanukkah menorah, or simply menorah for short, whereas in Modern Hebrew it is exclusively called a chanukkiyah, and the Hebrew word menorah simply means lamp. Many museums have notable collections of Hanukkah menorot, including the Israel Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Jewish Museum, which owns the Lindo lamp. Outside of the Knesset, or Israeli parliament, there is a 5 meter high bronze menorah called the Knesset Menorah.
Parshin паршин. This patronymic surname is derived from Parsha, a diminutive form of the men's names Parfen, Paramon, Parmen. It is also suggested the name can derive from the dialect term parsha, meaning gudgeon (fish). Among the Molokans, this surname occurred only in Russia. This patronymic surname is derived from Sauta, a diminutive form of the men's name Savva. It is also suggested that the name can derive from the dialect term sautka, meaning duck. lEnglish spelling variants include: Sauten, Saootin.