The following is a list of past and present Chairs of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. There have been a total of 15 Chairs of the Federal Reserve, all of whom have been appointed by the President of the United States. Thus, Marriner Eccles was the first actual Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board. The others prior to 1935 were Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve System, with much more circumscribed power.
As stipulated in the Banking Act of 1935, the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board are two of seven members of the Board of Governors who are appointed by the President from among the sitting Governors. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, commonly known as the Federal Reserve Board, is the main governing body of the Federal Reserve System. It is charged with overseeing the Federal Reserve Banks and with helping implement monetary policy of the United States.
The Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is the head of the central banking system of the United States. Known colloquially as Chair(man) of the Fed, Fed Chair(man) or Fed Chief. The Chairman is the active executive officer of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Thus, Marriner Eccles was the first actual Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board. The others prior to 1935 were Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve System, with much more circumscribed power.
Member, USPS Board of Governors. Louis J. Giuliano retired as Chairman, CEO, and President of ITT Corp in December 2004. He retired to focus on serving his faith priorities. He was named a governor of the U.S. Postal Service by President George W. Bush in November 2004. James H. Bilbray, acting chairman of the Board of Governors, is an attorney and former member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Nevada. He was appointed a governor of the U.S. Postal Service by President George W. Bush on August 17, 2006, for a term that expired December 8, 2006. He was reappointed on December 15, 2006, by President Bush to an additional nine-year term that expires December 8, 2015
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve did not exist prior to the major reorganization of the Fed in 1935 (Banking Act of 1935). Prior to that time, the Federal Reserve Board (created in 1913 under the Federal Reserve Act) had a Board of Directors. Thus, Marriner Eccles was the first actual Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board. The others prior to 1935 were Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve System, with much more circumscribed power.
HARTFORD, Conn. (WTNH) – Governor Malloy’s office says he has been officially appointed by the White House as a co-Chair of the Council of Governors. It’s described as a bi-partisan council of ten state Governors selected by the President for two-year terms
Of the five appointed members, one was designated by the president as governor and one as vice governor. The governor of the Federal Reserve Board, subject to its supervision, was the active executive officer. The Banking Act of 1933 increased the number of appointed members from five to six. The Banking Act of 1935, approved Aug. 23, 1935, changed the name of the Federal Reserve Board to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and created the position of Chairman and Vice Chairman. Previously, the Chairman was the Secretary of the Treasury.