Our Organization. PRA Group Canada is one of the most established organizations within the Debt Acquisition and Collection Industry in Canada. Our Company purchases portfolios from leading financial services organizations, and then recovers the accounts through a customer focused set of strategies and tactics
Our Organization. PRA Group Canada is one of the most established organizations within the Debt Acquisition and Collection Industry in Canada. Our Company purchases portfolios from leading financial services organizations, and then recovers the accounts through a customer focused set of strategies and tactics
BBB AccreditationA BBB Accredited Business since 16/03/2011BBB has determined that PRA Group Canada Inc. meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public. Factors that raised PRA Group Canada Inc.'s rating include:Length of time business has been operating.Complaint volume filed with BBB for business of this size.Response to 59 complaint(s) filed against business.Resolution of
A BBB Accredited Business since 16/03/2011. BBB has determined that PRA Group Canada Inc. meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public. Factors that raised PRA Group Canada Inc.'s rating include:Length of time business has been operating.Complaint volume filed with BBB for business of this size.Response to 59 complaint(s) filed against business.Resolution of
It's free! PRA Group Canada, is one of the most established organizations within the Debt Acquisition and Collection Industry in Canada. Our Company purchases portfolios from leading financial services organizations, and then recovers the accounts through a customer focused set of strategies and tactics. PRA Group Canada supports local charities and participates in many events such as the annual Holiday Charity Drive, the CIBC Run for the Cure, The Sunshine Foundation, and Movember for Prostate Cancer Canada.
PRA Group, Inc. or PRA, is an American debt buyer based in Norfolk, Virginia. Hundreds of companies are debt buyers, but PRA Group is among the few that are publicly traded corporations. In 2014, the company was referred to as a major player in the debt-collection industry
Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. PRA Group Canada, is one of the most established organizations within the Debt Acquisition and Collection Industry in Canada. Our Company purchases portfolios from leading financial services organizations, and then recovers the accounts through a customer focused set of strategies and tactics. PRA Group Canada supports local charities and participates in many events such as the annual Holiday Charity Drive, the CIBC Run for the Cure, The Sunshine Foundation, and Movember for Prostate Cancer Canada.
Aktiv Kapital have rebranded after being acquired by PRA Group in July 2014. All assets/debts/accounts owned by Aktiv Kapital are/have been transferred to the PRA Group Canada as part of the acquisition of the company. This means that any outstanding balances you had with Aktiv Kapital are still due and payable. In other words, the customer has not been able to enter into an acceptable agreement and consequently the account has been sold.Once the account has been sold, PRA Group Canada becomes the new legal owner of your account and there is no further correspondence between the selling financial institution and the customer.
Our Role in the Global Economy. PRA Group (Nasdaq: PRAA), a world leader in acquiring non-performing consumer debt, is an integral part of the financial receivables lifecycle. We return capital to global financial services companies, strengthening their ability to lend and more attractively price credit for consumers