$60,000. Average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings in Arkansas are 2% higher than average Dental Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide.
Home to some of the best pay for Dental Assistants, Seattle offers exceptional salaries, 24 percent above the national average. Dental Assistants can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Charlotte (+17 percent), New York (+10 percent), Atlanta (+6 percent), and Chicago (+2 percent). Dental Assistants do not generally earn higher incomes from more experience in the field. Salaries for the relatively untried average out to around $28K, but survey participants with five to 10 years of experience earn a significantly higher median of $33K.
Salary by Certification. PayScale.com reported in January 2014 that dental assistants with the Certified Dental Assistant (CDA) credential earned salaries ranging from $20,868 to $40,699. Those with the Registered Dental Assistant (RDA) credential made $23,338 to $43,063. Salary Overview. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), dental assistants earned an average hourly salary of $16.86 as of May 2012 (www.bls.gov). This results in an average yearly salary of $35,080.
$65,000. Average Registered Dental Assistant salaries for job postings in Arkansas are 2% higher than average Registered Dental Assistant salaries for job postings nationwide.
The average dental assistant salary in the United States is $35k and is expected to increase depending on how many years of experience. Dental assistants perform a variety of tasks that range from helping the dentist with treatment procedures to taking x-rays and scheduling appointments. The average salary for dental assistants is $36k which is about $17 an hour. The lowest percentile earned $24k a year, while the top percentile earned twice as much. The biggest factor for where you fall in is experience, so expect your starting salary to be closer to the bottom percentiles.
Dental assistants make a decent living in the state of Arkansas. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (www.bls.gov), the average salary of a dental assistant in Arkansas is just over $42,000. The following list is a sampling of average dental assistant salaries in Arkansas. www.indeed.com. 
(United States). A Dental Assistant in Little Rock, Arkansas earns an average wage of $13.82 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 10 years' experience in this field. $10.30 - $17.34
New Search Arkansas dental assistant SalariesNew SearchWithin Arkansas there is a lot of variation in dental assistant Salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Assists with oral surgery and other procedures under the direct supervision of a dentist. Prepares and arranges needed tools and instruments for scheduled procedures. Hands necessary tools and equipment to the dentist and provides assistance during treatment.
Dental Assistant Salary and Wages by State. How much dental assistants make varies from state to state. This is due to differences in cost of living, levels of demand for dental assistants, and other factors. Here are the 10 highest-paying states for dental assistant salary and hourly wage: 