The typical healthy resting heart rate in adults is 60-80 bpm, with rates below 60 bpm referred to as bradycardia, and rates above 100 bpm referred to as tachycardia. Note how … ever that conditioned athletes often have resting heart rates below 60 bpm. 1 person found this useful. Answered. 
The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal. 
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you.
For adults, a normal resting rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. Athletes may have a rate as low as 40 bpm because their hearts are trained to efficiently pump blood. If your heart rate is consistently below 60 or above 100, you may have a heart condition, such as arrhythmia. In some people, the heart rate may be even less than 60 beats per minute (bpm), and this is perfectly safe as long as they feel well, have normal blood pressure and their heart speeds up with exercise. Olympic athletes commonly have heart rates of 30 to 40 bpm.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
A normal resting heart rate -- your heart rate when you're completely at rest -- for the average adult is 60 to 80 beats per minute. People who are very physically fit often have slightly lower resting heart rates. Also, heart rate, much like weight, tends to increase with age. In some people, the heart rate may be even less than 60 beats per minute (bpm), and this is perfectly safe as long as they feel well, have normal blood pressure and their heart speeds up with exercise. Olympic athletes commonly have heart rates of 30 to 40 bpm.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate.
Your Heart Rate Over Time. As you grow older, your normal resting heart rate changes. For children 10 years and younger, and most adults, normal heart rate is 60 to 80 beats per minute (BPM) . Well-trained athletes can have a normal heart rate of 40 to 60 BPM.
THE FACTS. The normal resting heart rate for an adult ranges from 60 to 100 beats per minute. But some researchers believe it may be time to re-examine what’s considered normal. Researchers have found that a resting pulse at the upper end of “normal” may indicate a higher risk of stroke and heart disease. 
Strength of the pulse. The normal pulse for healthy adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats per minute. The pulse rate may fluctuate and increase with exercise, illness, injury, and emotions. Females ages 12 and older, in general, tend to have faster heart rates than do males. 