Double Oven Average Costs. 1  Double ovens start at around $1,250 to $2,500 and can cost as much as $4,000 to $5,000 or more. 2  Professional installation of a double oven might cost $100 to $200 (or more, if cabinet alteration is required). 1 To make installation as easy as possible, look for a double oven that’s the same size as your old oven. 2  Costs can easily double or even triple for installation of a new wall oven, as it must be built directly into the walls and cabinetry. 3  If replacing an old wall oven, installation will be simpler and less expensive.
1 Professional installation of a double oven might cost $100 to $200 (or more, if cabinet alteration is required). 2  To make installation as easy as possible, look for a double oven that’s the same size as your old oven. 1 To make installation as easy as possible, look for a double oven that’s the same size as your old oven. 2  Costs can easily double or even triple for installation of a new wall oven, as it must be built directly into the walls and cabinetry. 3  If replacing an old wall oven, installation will be simpler and less expensive.
Learn how to remove and replace a built-in electric wall oven; includes details on modifying the opening and insuring a proper electrical supply. Built-in wall ovens can look intimidating because they're, well -- built in. The truth is, though, they are not difficult to replace once you undertand how. Wall ovens come in four standard widths: 24, 27, 30 and 36 and slip inside a cabinet. Unless you intend to replace the cabinetry as well, you'll want to choose a new oven that's approximately the same width as the one you're replacing.
Do you need to know the average cost to install Wall Ovens in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Wall Oven job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. Wall Ovens-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors.
Get Inspired. Browse wall ovens on Lowes.com or at your local Lowe's store. Work with a Lowe's sales associate to plan your install project and select the right wall oven for your home and budget. Find wall ovens, double electric wall ovens and microwave / wall oven combinations for your home at Lowe's. Use a Lowe's professional installer to ensure a smooth install for your new appliances
Sears quoted me $460 to install a double oven. Not including an additional $65 for delivery. I already have a 40 amp breaker and proper line size to the oven so no electrical needed. He charged me $250 for the oven install, but it's just a line item on a larger project. I'm pretty sure he's got additional $$s built in to the total cost for his profit, so I'm guessing if he'd only done the oven install it would have been a higher price.
1 Double ovens start at around $1,250 to $2,500 and can cost as much as $4,000 to $5,000 or more. 2  Professional installation of a double oven might cost $100 to $200 (or more, if cabinet alteration is required). 3  To make installation as easy as possible, look for a double oven that’s the same size as your old oven. 1 To make installation as easy as possible, look for a double oven that’s the same size as your old oven. 2  Costs can easily double or even triple for installation of a new wall oven, as it must be built directly into the walls and cabinetry. 3  If replacing an old wall oven, installation will be simpler and less expensive.
Lowe's Wall Oven Install. Find wall ovens, double electric wall ovens and microwave / wall oven combinations for your home at Lowe's. Use a Lowe's professional installer to ensure a smooth install for your new appliances
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Wall Oven! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Wall Oven Installation project. For a basic 1 oven project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Wall Oven ranges between $1,403.93 - $2,941.57 per oven. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2.