If your mobile phone has a broken, scratched or cracked screen, you'll want to get it professionally fixed-fast. We offer phone screen repairs and replacements, and if your device is still under warranty, our repairs service won't void it, unlike high street repairs. 
Basically, I got my iPhone 6 on Tuesday My phone carrier is AT&T. Today, on Thursday, two days later, I dropped it and now the screen is cracked. I called Apple and asked them what could I do to fix it. They said that I could bring it in to the Apple Store and get it replaced with a brand new one for $109. That is the price for replacing the screen, not an out-of-warranty replacement. If they inspect the iPhone and there is no other damage they will repair the screen and AT&T will not be notified. If there is further damage they will replace the entire phone for $299. AT&T will be notified.
1 Third, you will need to ask your cell phone provider if you are paying for insurance on your device. 2  If you break your phone, this allows you to pay a deductible and get a new phone to replace it. 3  After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250. 1 If you break your phone, this allows you to pay a deductible and get a new phone to replace it. 2  After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250. 3  For instance, Best Buy will replace the screen on Samsung Galaxy phones for $229
1 For instance, Best Buy will replace the screen on Samsung Galaxy phones for $229. 2  According to a Yahoo! News story, the average cost of repairing a phone can cost $75 to as much as $200. 1 If you break your phone, this allows you to pay a deductible and get a new phone to replace it. 2  After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250. 3  For instance, Best Buy will replace the screen on Samsung Galaxy phones for $229
1 After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250. 2  For instance, Best Buy will replace the screen on Samsung Galaxy phones for $229. 1 If you break your phone, this allows you to pay a deductible and get a new phone to replace it. 2  After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250. 3
When you do bring in an iPhone for repairs, Apple says you'll likely get it back on the same day, but the prices, well, you be the judge. Apple charges $149 to replace a cracked iPhone 4 screen, $199 for a 4S and a whopping $269 to replace the iPhone 5 screen. Allie Drysten took her phone to an Apple store and paid $200 for a replacement screen. 
Purchasing a New Screen. The cost of a new screen will depend upon several variables, including what type of phone you have and where you purchase the screen from. For instance, at some online parts stores, Nokia LCD replacement screens are about $15 while iPhone replacement screens run closer to $50. Apple for iPhones) or you can choose to go through a professional repair company that isn t associated with the manufacturer. The cost will depend upon your decision. Apple typically charges no less than $200 to repair a cracked screen, but if you have insurance, you may not need to pay that entire amount. Professional repair companies generally charge between $50 and $170 to repair a cracked screen, depending upon which phone you have. In order to determine how to save the most money when trying to repair your phone s cracked screen, you ll want to do a little research and comparison first