Sinus tract from umbilicus and hernia containing preperitoneal fat, not related to the sinus/cyst area. an ellipse of skin including the umbilicus was then incised. A probe was placed into the sinus tract to use as a guide to avoid entering the cyst cavity. The tissues were dissected down the the fascia, well below the end of the probed area, and hernia sac and contents were dissected free from surrounding tissues. Layer closure and pt tolerated procedure well
The urachus is a fibrous remnant of the allantois, a canal that drains the urinary bladder of the fetus that joins and runs within the umbilical cord. The fibrous remnant lies in the space of Retzius, between the transversalis fascia anteriorly and the peritoneum posteriorly. The vesico-urethral portion of the urogenital sinus absorbs the ends of the Wolffian ducts and the associated ends of the renal diverticula, and these give rise to the trigone of the bladder and part of the prostatic urethra.
Surgical principles include identification of all structures of the umbilicus, excision of urachal or omphalomesenteric remnants, closure of the umbilical ring, and preservation of the natural appearance of the umbilicus. Laparoscopy is a valuable adjunct to open umbilical exploration. Care is taken to avoid injury to contents within the hernia sac and to the umbilical skin. Opening the anterior surface of the sac may help to avoid injury to the bowel. The sac is resected down to the level of the fascia.
Most patients with umbilical problems present with a mass or drainage from the umbilicus. An understanding of the anatomy and embryology of the abdominal wall and umbilicus is important for identifying and properly treating these conditions. The umbilicus is on the right and the bladder on the left. The attachments or the urachal cyst to the bladder and the umbilicus have been clipped (not shown) and divided. Note the convergence of the right and left medial umbilical ligaments as they approach the umbilical ring on the right.
Masses of the umbilicus may be related to lesions of the skin, embryologic remnants, or an umbilical hernia. Masses associated with the skin include dermoid cysts, hemangiomas, and inclusion cysts. Umbilical drainage is associated with granulomas and embryologic remnants. The umbilicus is on the right and the bladder on the left. The attachments or the urachal cyst to the bladder and the umbilicus have been clipped (not shown) and divided. Note the convergence of the right and left medial umbilical ligaments as they approach the umbilical ring on the right.
The embryology of the umbilicus and the developmental basis for surgical abnormalities has been well described for more than 100 years. Umbilical hernias, abdominal wall defects, umbilical polyps and drainage, and omphalomesenteric remnants are well described. The umbilicus is on the right and the bladder on the left. The attachments or the urachal cyst to the bladder and the umbilicus have been clipped (not shown) and divided. Note the convergence of the right and left medial umbilical ligaments as they approach the umbilical ring on the right.
Infection of the incision is also rare; however, if infection is present, treatment with antibiotics is indicated. Opening of the incision to drain an abscess may also be needed. Drainage following umbilical exploration and excision may indicate infection or retained embryologic tissue. Care is taken to avoid injury to contents within the hernia sac and to the umbilical skin. Opening the anterior surface of the sac may help to avoid injury to the bowel. The sac is resected down to the level of the fascia.
Hierarchical classifications of Excision or destruction of lesion or tissue of abdominal wall or umbilicus. The following list attempts to classify Excision or destruction of lesion or tissue of abdominal wall or umbilicus into categories where each line is subset of the next. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Excision or destruction of lesion or tissue of abdominal wall or umbilicus: Related Topics. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Excision or destruction of lesion or tissue of abdominal wall or umbilicus: 1  Abdominal wall. 2  Excision. 3  Lesion. 4  Tissue
The sac is then disconnected from its attachment with the umbilicus. Care is taken to avoid injury to contents within the hernia sac and to the umbilical skin. Opening the anterior surface of the sac may help to avoid injury to the bowel. The sac is resected down to the level of the fascia.