A: Baby rabbits need to stay with their mother until they are about 8 weeks old. Baby rabbits start nibbling on hay and pellets at about 2 weeks old. However, just because they start eating on their own does not mean they can be taken away from their mother. They need to continue to feed from their mother until they are about 8 weeks old. Baby rabbits separated from their mother before this time often end up dying. Sexing Rabbits. It is best to have a rabbit-knowledgeable vet or someone at a rabbit rescue group show you how to sex rabbits. An unneutered male rabbit has two pale pink testicles between his back legs
Babies can be separated from the mother between 6-8 weeks. Some people believe it best to take the babies out 2 a day until they are all gone. By about seven to eight weeks old a baby rabbit should be … fully weaned and ready to be separated from its mother. However, do not start this process before at least four weeks of age. Up until then it's vital that they get the nutrition and immunity protection that their mother's milk provides
Report Abuse. rabbits do not cry! leave them all together untill they are 8 weeks.rabbits can breed from 12 weeks of age so seperate by then.the mother will like a break from them for about 30 mins per day, the mum only feeds one-twice in 24 hours.they are very cleaver animals and know what to do so leave them alone. Best Answer: Baby rabbits should be separated from the mother at four to six weeks. Never take them away completely before they are weaned! They will only nurse at night when still in the box, but they should remain in the mother's cage around the clock.
Babies can be separated from the mother between 6-8 weeks. Some people believe it best to take the babies out 2 a day until they are all gone. Most rabbits mature around 3 mon … ths but should not be bred until 6 months. By about seven to eight weeks old a baby rabbit should be … fully weaned and ready to be separated from its mother. However, do not start this process before at least four weeks of age. Up until then it's vital that they get the nutrition and immunity protection that their mother's milk provide
Rabbits will foster another's baby if they are the same of the same size and age. The breeder may charge for this service, if they are willing to do it. The breeder may also ask to keep one or more of the babies as stock.. As soon as the babies are weaned, at eight weeks, the mother rabbit should be spayed. Often times people are concerned that the mother rabbit is not feeding the babies, sometimes because she is never seen with them. This is normal behavior for a domestic (or wild) rabbit and that mother rabbits do not lay with their offspring in the same manner as dogs and cats.
Seperating Baby rabbits. by: Anonymous. Tulsi You should separate your two rabbits, at the very latest, before 5 months, since from that age they will be able to breed. It is very difficult, even for a vet, to tell the sex of a baby rabbit, so you need to wait a little while on that one.