A passport is a document certifying identity and nationality; having the document does not of itself grant any rights, such as protection by the consulate of the issuing country, although it may indicate that the holder has such rights. A passport specifies nationality, but not necessarily citizenship or the place of residence of the passport holder. A passport holder is normally entitled to enter the country that issued the passport, though some people entitled to a passport may not be full citizens with right of abode.
Passport. A passport is required for ALL international travel. If you're traveling anywhere overseas, even to Canada, the Caribbean or Mexico, you need a passport to board an international flight and to enter any country. In general, your passport must be valid for at least six months after the date you enter a foreign country. Visit the U. S. State Department's websiteopens in a new window if you need a new passport or your passport is about to expire. There, you can find information on obtaining first time passports, passport renewals, second passport issuance and extra blank pages for an existing passport.
A passport is a travel document, usually issued by a country 's government, that certifies the identity and nationality of its holder for the purpose of international travel. Standard passports contain the holder's name, place and date of birth, photograph, signature, and other identifying information. A passport specifies nationality, but not necessarily citizenship or the place of residence of the passport holder. A passport holder is normally entitled to enter the country that issued the passport, though some people entitled to a passport may not be full citizens with right of abode.
A passport is merely an identity document that is widely recognised for international travel purposes, and the possession of a passport does not in itself entitle a traveller to enter any country other than the country that issued it, and sometimes not even then. A passport specifies nationality, but not necessarily citizenship or the place of residence of the passport holder. A passport holder is normally entitled to enter the country that issued the passport, though some people entitled to a passport may not be full citizens with right of abode.
The British National (Overseas) passport, commonly referred to as the BN(O) passport, is a British passport for holders of the nationality British National (Overseas) (BN(O)). The passport was first issued in 1987 after the Hong Kong Act 1985, from which this new class of British nationality was created. The cover of British National (Overseas) passport was originally blue, as in all other types of British passport. Early residents of Hong Kong were Citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies and their relevant passports bore the texts 'British Passport' at the top and 'Hong Kong' at the bottom of the cover.
A passport is a government-issued identification which allows the passenger to travel freely outside the home country (subject to regulations of other countries) and, with limited exceptions, is an essential requirement for international travel. 
1. Millions of Hong Kong residents hold British National (Overseas), or BNO, passports. These are issued by the United Kingdom Government to Hong Kong residents who had British nationality by virtue of a connection with Hong Kong before reunification with China in 1997. These passports are also recognised by many other countries for visa-free travel purposes. BNO passports are governed by the Hong Kong (British Nationality) Order 1986, which is an Order-in-Council of the United Kingdom Government.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An international passport is used to travel abroad, although certain nations are excluded of this requirement (e.g. If you live in the US, you need an international passport to travel to for instance Europe, Australia and others). An international passport holder is permitted to travel to any other countries in the world by the passport issuing Government, provided he obtain proper visa or entry permit to the country he propose to visit. John Koruthu · 3 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.