Research your clematis to determine the support that would be appropriate for its mature size. Nelly Moser (Clematis Nelly Moser), for instance, has a large mauve flower and reaches only 6 to 10 feet tall with a spread of 1 to 3 feet in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 through 11. Sweet autumn clematis (Clematis terniflora), on the other hand, has tiny white flowers on aggressive vines that reach 15 feet tall with a spread of up to 6 feet in USDA zones 5 through 11. It requires a sturdy structure such as a fence, wall or pergola.
Shop for Vegetable Supports. Morning glories and clematis use leaf tendrils to climb. Shop for Flower Trellises. Growing up rather than out is a good way to save space in the garden. You also get to enjoy lots of great vine plants such as sugar snap peas, pole beans, moonflowers, bougainvillea, and clematis. Adding a trellis or some other vertical structure to your garden also gives you a whole new dimension of visual interest.
Not clematis. If you want to know how to train a clematis to climb, first understand their climbing mechanism. Advertisement. Clematis manage to climb trees and poles by twining their leaf petiole around appropriately sized support structures. The petioles are not large enough to wrap around thick objects. Experts suggest that support structures with a diameter of ¾ inch or less are ideal for growing clematis on a pole or wall
Answers. Best Answer: Clematis need support to climb. If the wall is concrete, you could drill mortar screws in the mortar of the concrete and attach the vine to the screws with plant tape. The wall bricks should be more than sufficient support. 
Large-flowered clematis tend to have lightweight vines. Clematis (Clematis spp.) is a genus so varied that a gardener could fill every available garden space with creeping, climbing or sprawling vines and not have two alike. Sweet autumn clematis (Clematis terniflora), on the other hand, has tiny white flowers on aggressive vines that reach 15 feet tall with a spread of up to 6 feet in USDA zones 5 through 11. It requires a sturdy structure such as a fence, wall or pergola.
One important thing you need to know: Clematis climb by wrapping their leaf stems around small things. They do not cling, like Boston Ivy or Trumpet Vine do. Thus, they will NOT climb a building-or a rock wall-unless you provide something for them to wrap those leaves around. Don't worry-we'll tell you how! 
The standard clematis flower form is a large blossom with six or seven petals, measuring 5-6 across. There are also cultivars with smaller blossoms, double blossoms, and lovely bell-like flowers. Colors range from white to wine red, lavender to deep purple, and there are even a few yellow ones. When selecting a clematis for your garden, you'll want to think about a couple things, which include its mature height, flower form and color. If you have room for a vigorous 10- or 20-foot clematis vine, there are many wonderful cultivars that will fit the bill.
Clematis is a climbing plant that produces stunning blue, purple, pink, rose, yellow and white flowers all summer and into the fall. Certain cultivars can grow up to 20 feet (6.1 m) tall and live for over 80 years. Clematis require full sun on its blooms and cool shade over the roots in order to thrive. Clematis will not grow unless they have a vertical structure to climb. During the first year, the support that came with the clematis will be sufficient for the plant's needs, but after that you'll need to provide a larger support, like a trellis or arbor, to encourage it to grow bigger.
Make sure you provide it with something to climb on from day one. A clematis vine does not climb by twining around something, as a pole bean or a morning glory does. It climbs by wrapping its leaf stems around something. Because these leaf stems are not very long, anything that's more than about 1/2 inch in diameter is too wide for the leaf stem to twist around. The easiest things for a clematis to grab onto, are twine, fishing line, wire, thin branches, wooden dowels or steel rods. When selecting a clematis for your garden, you'll want to think about a couple things, which include its mature height, flower form and color. If you have room for a vigorous 10- or 20-foot clematis vine, there are many wonderful cultivars that will fit the bill.