Keywords: Classical conditioning (Pavlov), Operant conditioning (Skinner), Stimulus-response (S-R). Behaviorism. Behaviorism is a worldview that assumes a learner is essentially passive, responding to environmental stimuli. The learner starts off as a clean slate (i.e. tabula rasa) and behavior is shaped through positive reinforcement or negative reinforcement. 
Ad. Behaviorism focuses heavily on the use of conditioning, the idea that stimuli can be used to teach organisms to repeat or avoid behavior. In fact, conditioning can be used to manipulate the behavior of an organism to create a desired outcome. I've been studying the behaviorism approach in my psychology courses and from what I understand, to a behaviorist, psychology is the study of behavior. The entire theory is based on the notion that behaviors are based on external factors, not internal.
Behaviorism is primarily concerned with observable and measurable aspects of human behavior. In defining behavior, behaviorist learning theories emphasize changes in behavior that result from stimulus-response associations made by the learner. Behaviorists assert that the only behaviors worthy of study are those that can be directly observed; thus, it is actions, rather than thoughts or emotions, which are the legitimate object of study. Behaviorist theory does not explain abnormal behavior in terms of the brain or its inner workings.
Home › Perspectives › Behaviorism. Behaviorism (also called the behaviorist approach) was the primary paradigm in psychology between 1920 to 1950 and is based on a number of underlying assumptions regarding methodology and behavioral analysis: * Psychology should be seen as a science. 
It has sometimes been said that “behave is what organisms do.” Behaviorism is built on this assumption, and its goal is to promote the scientific study of behavior. The behavior, in particular, of individual organisms. Not of social groups. Not of cultures. The task of psychological behaviorism is to specify types of association, understand how environmental events control behavior, discover and elucidate causal regularities or laws or functional relations which govern the formation of associations, and predict how behavior will change as the environment changes.
Behaviorism (or behaviourism) is an approach to psychology that focuses on an individual's behavior. It combines elements of philosophy, methodology, and psychological theory. The primary tenet of methodological behaviorism, as expressed in the writings of John B. Watson and others, is that psychology should have only concerned itself with observable events. Behaviorist philosophies shifted somewhat during the 1940s and 1950s and again since the 1980s.
Top 10 facts about the world. Behaviorism is a branch of psychology that focuses on the study of observable behavior, with the accompanying belief that all human activities, from feeling an emotion to performing a physical task, are forms of behavior. I've been studying the behaviorism approach in my psychology courses and from what I understand, to a behaviorist, psychology is the study of behavior. The entire theory is based on the notion that behaviors are based on external factors, not internal.
Definition of BEHAVIORISM. : a school of psychology that takes the objective evidence of behavior (as measured responses to stimuli) as the only concern of its research and the only basis of its theory without reference to conscious experience — compare introspectionism. — be·hav·ior·is·tic \-ˌhā-vyə-ˈris-tik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.
Behaviorism is a psychological movement that can be contrasted with philosophy of mind. The basic premise of radical behaviorism is that the study of behavior should be a natural science, such as chemistry or physics, without any reference to hypothetical inner states of organisms as causes for their behavior. The primary tenet of methodological behaviorism, as expressed in the writings of John B. Watson and others, is that psychology should have only concerned itself with observable events. Behaviorist philosophies shifted somewhat during the 1940s and 1950s and again since the 1980s.