If you don't take the actual door size you will be installing and add 2 inches to the width and two and one-half inches to the height, this will give you the correct rough openings. The reason for the extra space is to allow room for the door frame and for space to adjust the door.
1 Cut 2x4s to the height of the door plus 1 1/2 inches (5.1 cm) to allow room for the top of the frame and allowance for leveling the jamb. 2  To make the door header, cut 2x4s to the width of the original opening. 3  A king stud is one that runs continuously from the top plate to the bottom plate.
Measure up along the studs on both sides of the door opening to a point that is 1 inch higher than the vertical dimension of the exterior of the door frame. Install a horizontal metal header at this point between the interior faces of the metal studs on both sides of the rough opening.
Instructions. Position the metal studs that will form the two sides of the rough opening so that the distance between them is 1 inch greater than the exterior dimensions of the door frame. This provides you with space to adjust the door frame and make it perfectly square and level with shims.
4. Determine the size of the door opening. The size of the door opening will vary depending on the size of the door you plan to install. A typical door opening is 2 inches (5.1 cm) wider than the door size being installed to allow for the thickness of the jamb material and shims to plumb the jamb.
Always use two studs on each side of the opening. The first will be continous from the top plate to the bottom plate. This is called a king stud. The next, jack stud will be cut to the height of your door plus 2-1/2 and minus the thickness of the bottom plate 1-1/2 as it will rest on top of this. So your jack stud should be cut at 81 for a 6-8 tall door. Your header size is determined by the load it carries.
Cut metal studs to fill the opening that are 3/8 inch to 1/2 inch shorter than the distance between the top and bottom track. You will need one on each side and every 16 inches in the opening. Screw a stud to the left and right side of the opening with 1/2-inch pan head framing screws.
1 To make the studs, measure the height of the door to be installed. 2  Cut 2x4s to the height of the door plus 1 1/2 inches (5.1 cm) to allow room for the top of the frame and allowance for leveling the jamb. 3  To make the door header, cut 2x4s to the width of the original opening.