Tiger Barb Color Variations Compatability in the Tiger Barb forums, part of the Barbs category. Has anybody had any experience with mixing the various color variations of the Tiger Barb ... my LFS carries the regular gold one and the green ones. I wondered the same thing. They will work fine together. I have 12 Tiger Barbs, 1 Green Barb, 1 Albino Barb and (4) Cherry Barbs in my 39 gallon tank. I had 2 each green and albino, but recently one each passed away. I'm looking at adding a couple Odessa Barb and/or Tinfoil Barbs. I really like the Barb family as they are ALWAYS active
The green tiger barb is the same size and has the same nature as the normal barb, but has a green body. The green tiger barb, often called the moss green tiger barb, can vary considerably in how green it looks; to some people it looks nearly black. Albino barbs are a light yellow with four barely visible stripes.
Tiger barbs do best in soft, slightly acidic water. The tank should be well lit with ample vegetation, about two-thirds of the tank space. These barbs are omnivorous, and will consume processed foods such as flakes and crisps, as well as live foods. The green tiger barb, often called the moss green tiger barb, can vary considerably in how green it looks; to some people it looks nearly black. Albino barbs are a light yellow with four barely visible stripes.
There are many colour variation of the Tiger Barb. These include the Moss Green Tiger Barb, also called the  Green Tiger Barb, and the Moss-banded Barb. This pretty fish is highly melanistic, but does not appear completely black. 
Puntius tetrazona, the tiger barb or Sumatra barb, is a species of tropical cyprinid fish. The natural geographic range reportedly extends throughout the Malay Peninsula, Sumatra and Borneo, with unsubstantiated sightings reported in Cambodia. The green tiger barb, often called the moss green tiger barb, can vary considerably in how green it looks; to some people it looks nearly black. Albino barbs are a light yellow with four barely visible stripes.
aggression, amongst Tigers, lessens as the school get bigger. I was feeding the barbs this morning and I noticed that my biggest Tiger barb is changing colors. She/He (not really sure) was of standard coloring, with the normal black stripes on a copper body and red accents on her dorsal and fins