The languages spoken in Scandinavia are called North Germanic languages, and include Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Icelandic, Faroese. These languages are generally sorted into the East- (Danish, Swedish) and West-Scandinavian (Norwegian, Icelandic) languages. Finnish belongs to the Finno-Ugric language family.
Swedish belongs to the Northern Germanic (or Scandinavian) branch of the Indo-European language family, as do Danish and Norwegian. It is closely related to those languages and is to a certain extent mutually intelligible with them. Gothenburg, Sweden.
How to Speak Swedish. Learning Swedish is not as much of a time commitment (and not as hard) as you might think. With Babbel, learning Swedish online is easy, intuitive and under your control: learn at your own pace, choose the lessons you want, and review and practice vocabulary on the go.
Swedish evolved from Old Norse around the 14th-15th century, and historically, the Swedish dialects were generally much more different than today. Since the 20th century Standard Swedish prevails throughout the country.
Swedish: Swedish is very similar to Danish and Norwegian, other North Germanic languages. There are at least 9 million speakers of Swedish. Swedish is Sweden's national language, and also one of Finland's two national
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Swedish is the official language of Sweden and is spoken by the vast majority of the nine million inhabitants of the country. It is a North Germanic language and quite similar to its sister Scandinavian languages, Danish and Norwegian.
How to ask people whether they speak a particular language, and to say that you do. This is perhaps the kind of question other people might ask you, and it's useful to be able to understand it and to have an answer prepared.
The Kingdom of Sweden is a nation-state for the Swedish people, and as such, their national language is held in very high regard. Of Sweden's roughly nine million people, almost all speak Swedish as at least a second language, and the majority as a first language (7,825,000, according to SIL's Ethnologue).