Hidden Costs and Practices. When calculating the average salary of any cruise ship worker, it is also necessary to factor in the expenses incurred by taking the job. Cruise workers are required to pay for transportation to the ship, any visas or work permits and medical or legal permits. On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring.
Gratuities. Gratuites are a major part of a cruise ship worker's income. They are paid by passengers in addition to ticket fares and other on-board costs and help to supplement worker pay, sometimes even exceeding it altogether. On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring.
As a paid cruise ship employee you will have to pay all the income taxes you would normally pay working at a land-based job. Keep in mind though, that there are some big differences to land based jobs. For example, in most cases, on a cruise ship, your cabin is free. Because work weeks on a cruise ship are typically longer than your typical work week, a cruise ship employee can expect to work over 45 hours in a week on average. Some cruise ship employees will work closer to 60.
Related Reading: The Average Salary of the Animal Care & Service Workers. Sailors and marine oilers on deep draft vessels received a mean wage of $18.05 per hour or $37,550 per year in 2011. Ship Engineers. As of 2011, ship engineers on deep draft vessels averaged $39.72 per hour or $82,630 per year. Engineers maintain the mechanical, electrical, refrigeration and ventilation systems on a ship.
The majority of positions are based on an hourly wage and most employment opportunities on a cruise ship earn $1,200-$1,500 a month. There are though, a large number of positions that can make as much as $2,500 a month equating to $13 an hour. Because work weeks on a cruise ship are typically longer than your typical work week, a cruise ship employee can expect to work over 45 hours in a week on average. Some cruise ship employees will work closer to 60.
Earl. Hey Peggy – There are hundreds of jobs on board cruise ships and it really all depends on your interests and what skills/knowledge you have in order to determine what is really best for you. And in terms of good money, it all depends on the position as salaries range from $500 – $10,000 per month. For more about Earl, life on cruise ships, and how you can work on cruise ships, check out Earl’s phenomenal and detailed definitive book on getting a job on a cruise ship.
Cruise ship workers typically work on six month contracts with a particular cruise line due to the nature of the work and the workplace. Long periods at sea and 7-day work week are a lot for workers to deal with. On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring.
Income Range. Salaries range from around $800 per month up to $8,000 depending on the position you work and the line for which you work. Entry-level positions such as junior waitstaff are at the bottom of the ladder, while the maitre d'hotel will be at the top. On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring.
Captains, mates and pilots on deep draft vessels earned a mean wage of $35.38 per hour or $73,590 per year as of May 2011, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Captains, mates and pilots are the highest-ranking members of the crew. Ship Engineers. As of 2011, ship engineers on deep draft vessels averaged $39.72 per hour or $82,630 per year. Engineers maintain the mechanical, electrical, refrigeration and ventilation systems on a ship.