The format and style of the Building Regulations in England and Wales as they appear today came into effect in 1985 with regular updates being made to improve technical standards. There is now a commitment in England to update the standards on a regular three year cycle with the next changes proposed in 2013. The original ‘Building Regulations’ were introduced in the 1960s, however these developed from a series of Bye-Laws based upon national models, with regional variations. The origins of some of these requirements can be traced back to the redevelopment of London following the Great Fire in 1666.
As of 1 January 2005 it is a legal requirement for all work on fixed electrical installations in dwellings and associated buildings to comply with relevant standards. The relevant UK standard is BS 7671:2008, 'Requirements for electrical installations' (The IEE Wiring Regulations 17th Edition). 
The detailed requirements of Building regulations in England and Wales are scheduled within 14 separate headings, each designated by a letter (Part A to Part Q), and covering aspects such as structure, fire safety, access, electrical, protection from falling, drainage, and so on. The Regulations also specify, that some types of work must be undertaken by an appropriate qualified professional (such as works on gas or certain electrical matters), or must be notified to the relevant local authority 's Building Control department (LABC) for certification or approval.
Scotland was the first country in the United Kingdom to adopt national regulations. The Building (Scotland) Act in 1959 created the power to do so. The first set of Building Regulations was published in 1963 and came into force in 1964. England and Wales followed suit. The Public Health Act of 1961 was the statutory instrument and the first regulations were published in 1965. These issues were tackled in a set of building regulations usually dated to 1189, and certainly earlier than 1216. The greatest hazard was fire. After a major fire in 1212, thatched roofs were banned in London by the city's first mayor, Henry Fitzailwin.
0 R 1 [DETR 1983] STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS 2000 No. 2531BUILDING AND BUILDINGS ENGLAND ANDWALES The Building Regulations 2000 Made----13th September 2000Laid before Parliament 22nd September 2000Coming into force 1st January 2001 ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS PART I General 1. Citation and commencement.2. Interpretation. —(1) In this regulation “relevant use” means a use as a workplace of a kind to which Part IIof the Fire Precautions (Workplace) Regulations 1997 (a) applies or a use designated undersection 1 of the Fire Precautions Act 1971 (b) ;
Coming into force or entry into force (also called commencement) refers to the process by which legislation, regulations, treaties and other legal instruments come to have legal force and effect. The term is closely related to the date of this transition. 3 Commencement of Acts of the Scottish Parliament and Scottish instruments: time (1) Subsection (2) applies where an Act of the Scottish Parliament or a Scottish instrument provides for the Act or instrument to come into force on a particular day. (2) The Act or instrument comes into force at the beginning of the day.
New nationwide regulations have come into force as of 1st October 2010 which legislate that anyone completing re-roofing work, including replacement of flat roofs, must apply for Building Regulations approval. 
Building regulations are statutory instruments that seek to ensure that the policies set out in the relevant legislation are carried out. Building regulations approval is required for most building work in the UK. Building regulations that apply across England and Wales are set out in the Building Act 1984 while those that apply across Scotland are set out in the Building (Scotland) Act 2003. The Regulations also specify, that some types of work must be undertaken by an appropriate qualified professional (such as works on gas or certain electrical matters), or must be notified to the relevant local authority 's Building Control department (LABC) for certification or approval.
Building Control took on the greater role of Health and Safety through the first Public Health Act in 1875. This Act had two major revisions in 1936 and 1961, leading to the first set of national building standards, The Building Regulations 1965. On 11 November 1985, the Building Act 1984 came into force, which introduced Approved Documents with their non-prescriptive requirements. Today’s Building Regulations came into operation in October 2010. The Regulations are constantly reviewed to meet the growing demand for better, safer and more accessible buildings. Any changes necessary are brought into operation after consultation with all interested parties. 
It was this pattern that fueled the Great Fire of London in 1666, which wiped out 80% of the city. That disaster led to the London Building Act of 1667, the first to provide for surveyors to enforce its regulations. It laid down that all houses were to be built in brick or stone. The number of storeys and width of walls were carefully specified. Streets should be wide enough to act as a fire break. These issues were tackled in a set of building regulations usually dated to 1189, and certainly earlier than 1216. The greatest hazard was fire. After a major fire in 1212, thatched roofs were banned in London by the city's first mayor, Henry Fitzailwin.