The theory of the learning curve or experience curve is based on the simple idea that the time required to perform a task decreases as a worker gains experience. The basic concept is that the time, or cost, of performing a task (e.g., producing a unit of output) decreases at a constant rate as cumulative output doubles.
Learning curve shows the rate of improvement in performing a task as a function of time, or the rate of change in average cost (in hours or dollars) as a function of cumulative output.
noun. 1  A graph that depicts rate of learning, especially a graph of progress in the mastery of a skill against the time required for such mastery. 2  The rate at which something can be learned or the degree of difficulty in learning something: a product with a difficult learning curve.
The term learning curve is used in two main ways: where the same task is repeated in a series of trials, or where a body of knowledge is learned over time. The first person to describe the learning curve was Hermann Ebbinghaus in 1885, in the field of the psychology of learning, although the name wasn't used until 1909.
noun. The definition of a learning curve is the time and study that it takes to develop knowledge or skills relating to a particular subject or task. An example of a learning curve is the amount of effort needed to learn to play a new musical instrument.
DEFINITION of 'Learning Curve'. A concept that describes how new skills or knowledge can be quickly acquired initially, but subsequent learning becomes much slower.
The term the learning curve has a popular, well-known meaning in American culture. However, as these things sometimes go, when you start to examine the way that term is used, you find out that the popular meaning of the term really doesn't make any sense.
Learning Curve on Graph. Learning curve demonstrates that over a period time, there is an increase in productivity but with diminishing rate as production increases. Therefore, if the rate of reduction is 20% than the learning curve is referred as 80% learning curve.