Definition: The measure of an angle with a measure between 0° and 90° or with less than 90° radians. Also Known As: A positive angle that measures less than 90°. 
Definition 8. A plane angle is the inclination to one another of two lines in a plane which meet one another and do not lie in a straight line. Definition 9. And when the lines containing the angle are straight, the angle is called rectilinear. Definition 10. When a straight line standing on a straight line makes the adjacent angles equal to one another, each of the equal angles is right, and the straight line standing on the other is called a perpendicular to that on which it stands. Definition 11. An obtuse angle is an angle greater than a right angle.
Definition of RIGHT ANGLE for Kids. : an angle formed by two lines that are perpendicular to each other: an angle of 90 degrees. Examples of RIGHT ANGLE. 1  A square has four right angles. 2  Hold the nail at a right angle to the board. 3  The two boards are joined at right angles to each other.
Definition: An angle whose measure is exactly 90°. Try this Adjust the angle below by dragging an orange dot and see how the angle ∠ ABC behaves. Note that it is a right angle only when its measure is exactly 90°. Right angles are one of the most common and interesting angles in all of geometry. It even has its own angle symbol. In the figure above, set the angle to 90° and see that instead of a small arc, the angle is marked with a small square symbol. If you see this, the angle measure in degrees is usually omitted. Note also that right triangles are those where one interior angle is a right angle.
In Unicode, the symbol for a right angle is U+221F ∟ right angle (HTML &#8735;). In diagrams the fact that an angle is a right angle is usually expressed by adding small right angle that forms a square with the angle in the diagram, as seen the diagram of a right triangle to the right. Euclid uses right angles in definitions 11 and 12 to define acute angles (those smaller than a right angle) and obtuse angles (those greater than a right angle). Two angles are called complementary if their sum is a right angle.
The presence of a right angle in a triangle is the defining factor for right triangles, making the right angles basic to trigonometry.uclid uses right angles in definitions 11 and 12 to define acute angles (those smaller than a right angle) and obtuse angles (those greater than a right angle). Two angles are called complementary if their sum is a right angle.
Definition. A right angle is an angle that measures exactly 90 degrees. It is exactly a quarter of a circle. When you cut a pie into four equal pieces, the tip of each slice will form a right angle. Look at the circle or 'pie' above and notice how the tips of each slice make a corner that is a right angle. Right Triangles. You will see right angles in many places. You will see them in squares and rectangles where each corner is a right angle. One of the most useful places you will see them is in triangles. When a triangle has a right angle, it becomes a special type of triangle called a right triangle.
Right angles are defined as those angles that measure exactly 90 degrees. The most important place you will see them is in triangles. The formula that comes from the right triangle is the Pythagorean Theorem that relates all the sides of the right triangle to each other. Right Triangles. You will see right angles in many places. You will see them in squares and rectangles where each corner is a right angle. One of the most useful places you will see them is in triangles. When a triangle has a right angle, it becomes a special type of triangle called a right triangle.
Noun. 1. right angle-the 90 degree angle between two perpendicular lines. grad, grade-one-hundredth of a right angle. angle-the space between two lines or planes that intersect; the inclination of one line to another; measured in degrees or radians. oblique angle-an angle that is not a right angle or a multiple of a right angle. noun
Full Definition of RIGHT ANGLE. : the angle bounded by two lines perpendicular to each other: an angle of 90° or 1⁄2 π radians. — right–an·gled \ˈrīt-ˈaŋ-gəld\ or right–an·gle \-gəl\ adjective. See right angle defined for English-language learners. Examples of RIGHT ANGLE. 1  A square has four right angles. 2  Hold the nail at a right angle to the board. 3  The two boards are joined at right angles to each other.