Best Answer: &nbsp Phospholipids have a hydrophobic tail, and a hydrophilic head. Hydrophilic means water loving, hydrophobic means water hating. The cell membrane is made up of a phospholipid bilayer (two layers). The hydrophilic tails aggregate together leaving the heads (which are water loving) to stick out. In the fluid mosaic model of a cells membrane, proteins are bobbing through a fluid bilayer of phospholipids. Nonpolar molecules such as hydrocarbons, carbon dioxide, and oxygen, are hydrophobic and can therefore dissolve in the lipid bilayer membrane (the hydrophobic middle) and can pass it easily.
Each of these has a polar head and a non-polar tail part. The polar bits are attracted to water (hydrophilic) , … and the non-polar parts repel water (hydrophobic). In the membrane, they form a double layer-like a sandwich-the polar heads stick out, and the tails form the middle, like the filling inside the sandwich. The cell membrane uses diffusion to allow things in and out of the cell. In certain cases objects are too large and the membrane creates a larger pathway and uses ATP to force … the object through. 1 person found this useful. Answered. In Biology.
Active Transport. Endocytosis and Exocytosis. The Structure of the Cell Membrane The cell membrane (or plasma membrane) surrounds all living cells, and is the cell's most important organelle. It controls how substances can move in and out of the cell and is responsible for many other properties of the cell as well. 
Recall that phospholipids have a hydrophobic end and a hydrophilic end and that when placed in water they will orient themselves accordingly (5.11 pg 79). This is the basis for the plasma membrane of a cell. The cell membrane consists of a phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. We refer to the modern conceptual model of the cell membrane as the fluid mosaic model since the phospholipids are able to move about across the surface of the membrane (fluid) and the proteins are many and varied (mosaic) (5.12).
The cell membrane is semi-permeable, which means that it allows certain substances to go through. For substances that are too large, there are vacuoles and transport protein … s that assist the large substances. There is also facilitated transport, passive transport, and active transport. its is a permeable membrane which allows osmosis and diffusion of small molecules such as glucose, salts and mineral ions. In an animal cell, it cannot hold the cell tur … gid like plant cells can, and so it bursts when too much water has entered it.
The arrangement of hydrophilic heads and hydrophobic tails of the lipid bilayer prevent polar solutes (ex. amino acids, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, proteins, and ions) from diffusing across the membrane, but generally allows for the passive diffusion of hydrophobic molecules. The cell membrane (or plasma membrane or plasmalemma) surrounds the cytoplasm of living cells, physically separating the intracellular components from the extracellular environment.
Nonpolar and small polar molecules can pass through the cell membrane, so they diffuse across it in response to concentration gradients. Carbon dioxide and oxygen are two molecules that undergo this simple diffusion through the membrane. The simple diffusion of water is known as osmosis. 
The cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane or cytoplasmic membrane) is a biological membrane that separates the interior of all cells from the outside environment. The cell membrane is selectively permeable to ions and organic molecules and controls the movement of substances in and out of cells. The basic function of the cell membrane is to protect the cell from its surroundings. It consists of the phospholipid bilayer with embedded proteins. The cell membrane (or plasma membrane or plasmalemma) surrounds the cytoplasm of living cells, physically separating the intracellular components from the extracellular