[more]. ARUNDHATI अरुन्धती, अरुंधती f Indian, Hinduism. The name of a star (also called Alcor), which was named after a type of climbing plant, possibly meaning not restrained in Sanskrit ... [more]. ARYA आरय, आरया m & f Indian. Means honourable, noble in Sanskrit ... From the name of a mountain in the Himalayas which is believed to be the paradise of the Hindu god Shiva ... [more]. KAJAL काजल f Indian. Means kohl, medical lotion in Sanskrit. KALA (1) कला f Indian. Means art form, virtue in Sanskrit.
Add a New Name. The purpose of this list is to help Telugu Parents in choosing names for newborn baby. Most important Task is Giving a name to the Baby that would be parents usually do because the name is for life. The Name will be with the Baby through the rest of their Life. Whether you are the Mother or Father of a New Cute Baby, This List has been created to Help the parents and can be used to suggest from the list. We Have Collected a List of Modern Telugu Baby Names with their Meaning. These Names are Modern as well as Unique.
Add a New Name. The purpose of this list is to help Indian Parents in choosing names for newborn baby. Most important Task is Giving a name to the Baby that would be parents usually do because the name is for life. The Name will be with the Baby through the rest of their Life. Remember! a Name isn't just for a Birth Day-it's for Life! Some People say that Names have a Significant Effect on the Babies Development and Personality.
One month old tomorrow! @Artemis Women's Health. Many have asked the meaning of our name...so here goes -. Artemis was one of the most widely venerated of Ancient Greek deities. She was the Hellenic Goddess of hunt, childbirth, virginity and protector of young girls. In later Hellenistic times, she even assumed the role of Eileithyia in aiding childbirth. ... Many women with endometriosis do not have any symptoms, but ... some may be affected with chronic pelvic pain and difficulty falling pregnant. Learn more about this common condition affecting women in the reproductive age group... https://www.rcog.org.uk/…/pat…/gynaecology/endometriosis.pdf.
Means lord of snakes from Sanskrit नाग (naga) meaning snake (also elephant) combined with the name of the Hindu god INDRA, used here to mean lord ... From the name of a mountain in the Himalayas which is believed to be the paradise of the Hindu god Shiva ... [more]. KAJAL काजल f Indian. Means kohl, medical lotion in Sanskrit. KALA (1) कला f Indian. Means art form, virtue in Sanskrit.
JASWINDER f & m Punjabi. Means Indra of the thunderbolt from the name of the Hindu god INDRA prefixed with Sanskrit jasu, the name of his thunderbolt. JAY (2) जय m Indian. Modern transcription of JAYA. JAYA जया, जय f & m Indian, Hinduism. Derived from Sanskrit जय (jaya) meaning victory ... From the name of a mountain in the Himalayas which is believed to be the paradise of the Hindu god Shiva ... [more]. KAJAL काजल f Indian. Means kohl, medical lotion in Sanskrit. KALA (1) कला f Indian. Means art form, virtue in Sanskrit.
Because Every Name has a Meaning, by taking the Name of a Child for years that will develop their personality traits according to the Meaning for his/her Name. Whether you are the Mother or Father of a New Cute Baby, This List has been created to Help the parents and can be used to suggest from the list. We Have Collected a List of Modern Telugu Baby Names with their Meaning. These Names are Modern as well as Unique.
The baby name Bhaswati is Sanskrit in origin and its meaning is bright, shining, resplendent or luminous. Bhaswati is pronounced bhaa-s-va-ti. 
Whether you are the Mother or Father of a New Cute Baby, This List has been created to Help the parents and can be used to suggest from the list. We Have Collected a List of Modern Indian Baby Names with their Meaning. The Name will be with the Baby through the rest of their Life. Remember! a Name isn't just for a Birth Day-it's for Life! Some People say that Names have a Significant Effect on the Babies Development and Personality.