A jointer may also be used to flatten the face of a board, in which case the sole focus is to produce a flat surface on the face of the board and the fence is not used. This procedure is often performed prior to edge jointing so that the board has a flat reference face for subsequent operations. A jointer that is used for rebating has the outside ends of its blades also sharpened and set with a small clearance from the cutter head. A jointer cannot be used to create a board of even thickness along its length.
How to understand what projects to use a jointer for; get professional tips and advice from an expert carpenter on woodworking tools in this free instructional video. Part of the Video Series: How to Use Basic Woodworking Tools. After you come back from the lumber yard and you've selected the wood that you're going to use, the first things you want to do is come to this machine and get a flat face on the wood. The way that that happens is that there are two beds on this machine and a set of cutter knives in the middle.
Planer is the normal term in the UK and Australia for what is called a jointer in North America, where the former term refers exclusively to a thickness planer. Also some of the older woodworkers use the term joiner. A jointer that is used for rebating has the outside ends of its blades also sharpened and set with a small clearance from the cutter head. A jointer cannot be used to create a board of even thickness along its length.
The jointer can be used in combination with the MARK V tablesaw. Warning: Be sure the upper and lower saw guards are in place. Table 6-1: Jointer Speed ChartOperation Hardwood Softwood Heavy Cuts M (3900 RPM) 0(4550 RPM)Finishing Cuts 0(5300 RPM) S (6200 RPM)NOTE: These speeds are for 60 hz. operations. If you need a smaller component fora project, do your jointer work on a larger piece and cut off what you need.The technique for handling and feeding the stock is similar to edge jointing. However, since the stock liesflat on the table below the top of the fence, always use a push stick or push blocks (Figure 6-12).
While the jointer and planer are similar tools that can be used on the same piece of wood, some people may think that these tools are interchangeable. However, they each have a distinct function, and there are different ways to determine which is the right tool for the job. A jointer is used to create smooth, flat surfaces along the four edges of a piece of wood. A planer cuts wood into the desired thickness, while creating perfectly parallel surfaces. There are many ways to determine if a job requires a planer or jointer.
Jointer. A jointer (also known in the UK and Australia as a planer or surface planer, and sometimes also as a buzzer or flat top) is a woodworking machine used to produce a flat surface along a board's length. A jointer that is used for rebating has the outside ends of its blades also sharpened and set with a small clearance from the cutter head. A jointer cannot be used to create a board of even thickness along its length.
How to understand what projects to use a jointer for; get professional tips and advice from an expert carpenter on woodworking tools in this free instructional video. Expert: Kevin Mouton. 
Most woodworkers know that you need both a planer and a jointer to get the most out of rough lumber (at least for power tool users). The jointer is used to flatten one face and square up one edge and the planer is then used to make the second face flat and parallel to the first. I don’t have a jointer so I can’t say which way is best. I opted for a planer first due to the money issue and space!! I’m just pickier about the wood at the hardwood store since a planer can’t take out bow or twist without shims on MDF. I’ve been happy with the results so far.
Using A Jointer The jointer is designed to quickly and accurately accomplish many operations that would require manyhours of tedious labor if done by hand. It's a rotary cutter that will plane edges smooth and square, readyfor gluing or assembling. If you need a smaller component fora project, do your jointer work on a larger piece and cut off what you need.The technique for handling and feeding the stock is similar to edge jointing. However, since the stock liesflat on the table below the top of the fence, always use a push stick or push blocks (Figure 6-12).