To avoid these shaving problems, again, shave with the grain (that is, in the direction your hair grows). Each person's facial hair has its own growth pattern. If you are unsure of the direction of your beard, let it grow for a day or two and you'll see it. After all, your face is the first thing they notice...... Make Sure Your Beard is Thoroughly Wet. One of the keys to a great close shave without irritation or razor burn is to make sure your beard is thoroughly wet. Facial hair will absorb moisture up to 30% of its volume.
Apply the shaving cream using the brush in a circular motion ending in an upward stroke to help lift the beard up and away from the face. Always use a good quality sharp razor blade. Be sure the blade is sharp. You're not just cutting off hair, you're also scraping off up to two layers of surface skin when you shave. A dull blade is more traumatic to the skin, making your face feel scratchy and look blotchy-a dull razor is one of the contributing factors to razor burn and shaving rash. After all, your face is the first thing they notice...... Make Sure Your Beard is Thoroughly Wet. One of the keys to a great close shave without irritation or razor burn is to make sure your beard is thoroughly wet. Facial hair will absorb moisture up to 30% of its volume.
1 This is called shaving “with the grain.” Shaving “against the grain” can cause a rash or red bumps. 2  After each stroke, rinse off your razor under running water to clean any clogged hair and extra shaving cream. 3  After you’ve finished shaving, rinse your face with water, and then follow up with aftershave. 1 Using your hands, apply shaving cream or gel to the areas on your face (and/or neck) you want to shave. 2  Move slowly, apply a little bit of pressure, and take short, smooth strokes across your face.
1 Shave in the direction that your hair grows. 2  This is called shaving “with the grain.” Shaving “against the grain” can cause a rash or red bumps. 3  After each stroke, rinse off your razor under running water to clean any clogged hair and extra shaving cream. 1 Using your hands, apply shaving cream or gel to the areas on your face (and/or neck) you want to shave. 2  Move slowly, apply a little bit of pressure, and take short, smooth strokes across your face.
4. Wash your face with an exfoliant facial wash. To prepare the skin for shaving, it's a good idea to start with as clean a skin as possible to avoid infections and irritation while you're shaving. Use a good, natural exfoliant face wash and wash your face with warm soapy water. Blot dry. When you finish washing your face, you should start right away before your pores have a chance to tighten up and your skin is still damp. This is the best way to get the closest and most comfortable shave possible. Don't wait around while you do other morning rituals.
1 This softens the hairs and makes them easier to cut. 2  Put a shaving gel or cream -- not soap -- on your face. 3  Squirt the gel onto your fingertips and apply it evenly over the entire area you are shaving. 4  It should make a lather. 5  Start by shaving the sides of your face. 6  Use short, slow strokes. 1 Put a shaving gel or cream -- not soap -- on your face. 2  Squirt the gel onto your fingertips and apply it evenly over the entire area you are shaving. 3  It should make a lather. 4  Start by shaving the sides of your face. 5  Use short, slow strokes. 6  Avoid going back over the area you've already shaved.
1 You should probably avoid a boar bristle shaving brush if your skin is sensitive or oily. 2  There are many shave creams on the market; choose one that you like that's right for your skin type. 3  Badger bristle is the preferred shaving brush bristle. When you finish washing your face, you should start right away before your pores have a chance to tighten up and your skin is still damp. This is the best way to get the closest and most comfortable shave possible. Don't wait around while you do other morning rituals.
1 If you have a lot of whiskers on your face because you haven't shaved in a while, trim your beard before you shave. 2  With a razor, it's easier and quicker to shave a beard that's one or two days old than it is to shave a beard that's one or two months old. 3  Each individual has their own unique facial hair pattern. Let the shaving cream rest on your face for 1-2 minutes. If you can afford to let the shaving cream rest on your face a while before you attack it with a razor blade, you'll notice the difference. The shaving cream will continue moisturizing your whiskers, leaving them soft and wet.
You can get a sense of what direction your beard grows by feeling your face with your fingers. Then follow these steps to a smooth shave: 1  Wet your beard with warm water. 2  This softens the hairs and makes them easier to cut. 3  Put a shaving gel or cream -- not soap -- on your face. 4  Squirt the gel onto your fingertips and apply it evenly over the entire area you are shaving. 5  It should make a lather. 1 Put a shaving gel or cream -- not soap -- on your face. 2  Squirt the gel onto your fingertips and apply it evenly over the entire area you are shaving. 3  It should make a lather. 4  Start by shaving the sides of your face. 5  Use short, slow strokes. 6  Avoid going back over the area you've already shaved.