Construction of the sarcophagus (cover) over the destroyed Chernobyl reactor. On April 26, 1986, a major accident occurred at Unit 4 of the nuclear power station at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in the former USSR. On 22 December 1988, Soviet scientists announced that the sarcophagus now enclosing the reactor was designed for a lifetime of only 20 to 30 years. Three years after the nuclear accident, the Soviet government halted construction of the fifth and sixth reactor units at the Chernobyl nuclear power complex. After prolonged international negotiations, the entire complex was closed on 12 December 2000, 14 years after the accident
Background. On April 26, 1986, a sudden surge of power during a reactor systems test destroyed Unit 4 of the nuclear power station at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in the former Soviet Union. The accident and the fire that followed released massive amounts of radioactive material into the environment. 
Chernobyl was a nuclear power plant in the former Soviet Union. On 26 April 1986, it suffered a massive failure which caused it to spread radioactive waste across large parts … of Europe.    The accident began with a steam explosion that caused a fire, more explosions, and a subsequent nuclear meltdown. The disaster at Chernobyl is considered to be the worst nuclear disaster in history. One of the nuclear reactors at the plant had a meltdown, and spewed toxic, … radioactive fallout all over Chernobyl and the surrounding areas. Practically half of Russia and Europe were affected.
Key Facts. 1  The 1986 accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, then part of the former Soviet Union, is the only accident in the history of commercial nuclear power to cause fatalities from radiation. 2  It was the product of a severely flawed Soviet-era reactor design combined with human error. 
View full size image. In the early morning hours of April 26, 1986, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine (formerly part of the Soviet Union) exploded, creating what has been described as the worst nuclear disaster the world has ever seen. The day before the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, plant operators were preparing for a one-time shutdown to perform routine maintenance on reactor number 4.
At the time of the accident--April 26, 1986--the Chernobyl nuclear power station consisted of four operating 1,000-megawatt power reactors sited along the banks of the Pripyat River, about sixty miles north of Kiev in the Ukraine, the fertile grain-producing region of the southwestern USSR. 
The Chernobyl disaster was the worst nuclear power plant accident in history in terms of cost and casualties. Four hundred times more radioactive material was released from Chernobyl than by the atomic bombing of Hiroshima. The disaster released 1/100 to 1/1000 of the total amount of radioactivity released by nuclear weapons testing during the 1950s and 1960s.
Chernobyl in 1999: Human error was a major factor Reactor Four at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant began to fail in the early hours of 26 April, 1986. Seven seconds after the operators activated the 20-second shut down system, there was a power surge. The chemical explosions that followed were so powerful that they blew the 1,000 ton cover off the top of the reactor. Evacuation Soviet authorities started evacuating people from the area around Chernobyl within 36 hours of the accident. The Chernobyl accident: What happened. Reactor Four at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant began to fail in the early hours of 26 April, 1986.