Life insurance proceeds paid to you because of the death of the insured person are not taxable unless the policy was turned over to you for a price. This is true even if the proceeds were paid under an accident or health insurance policy or an endowment contract. The face amount of the policy is $75,000 and, as beneficiary, you choose to receive 120 monthly installments of $1,000 each. The excluded part of each installment is $625 ($75,000 รท 120), or $7,500 for an entire year. The rest of each payment, $375 a month (or $4,500 for an entire year), is interest income to you.
Interest charged on a policy loan is not generally deductible for income tax purposes. There could be other adjustments as well under the contract; for example, a participating policy may restrict the payment of dividends to you while a loan is outstanding. You are not required to repay a life insurance policy loan. You can borrow against your life insurance policy, and the loan proceeds are generally not taxable to you (unless the policy is a modified endowment contract (MEC), see sidebar). A loan from a MEC is treated as a distribution from the MEC.
If a life insurance policy is owned by the beneficiaries, they won't have to pay an estate tax, he says. The minimum benefit subject to state estate taxes varies. For example, in Maryland, life insurance benefits of more than $1 million are subject to the state's estate tax. However, depending on the amount of the life insurance policy, how it is owned and the state where the deceased person lived, you (the beneficiary) could have to pay estate taxes on a life insurance policy..
If the death benefit face value is $250,000 (for example), and the beneficiary elects to receive monthly payments instead of the lump sum amount, the additional interest received above the $250,000 face amount is taxable. If a policy is combined with a non-refund life annuity contract where a single premium is equal to the face value of the insurance is paid, then the exclusion does not apply.
Estate inclusion can be avoided if the owner of the life insurance policy is someone other than the deceased, however; this assignment must have occurred more than three years prior to the date of death, or the IRS will still consider the deceased as the policy owner for estate tax purposes. If a policy is combined with a non-refund life annuity contract where a single premium is equal to the face value of the insurance is paid, then the exclusion does not apply.
For federal income tax purposes, an insurance contract cannot be considered a life insurance contract--and qualify for favorable tax treatment--unless it meets state law requirements and satisfies the IRS's statutory definitions of what is or is not a life insurance policy. You can't deduct interest you've paid on policy loans. The interest you pay on any loans taken out against the cash value of your life insurance is not tax deductible. Certain loans on business-owned policies are an exception to this rule.
Auto insurance. Benefits: Generally not taxable. Insurance money you receive after a car accident or when your car has been stolen is not reported as income, says Burke. If you are repairing or replacing your personal vehicle, then you don't have to pay taxes on the insurance benefit, he notes. However, depending on the amount of the life insurance policy, how it is owned and the state where the deceased person lived, you (the beneficiary) could have to pay estate taxes on a life insurance policy..
Employer-paid life insurance may have a tax cost. The premium cost for the first $50,000 of life insurance coverage provided under an employer-provided group term life insurance plan does not have to be reported as income and is not taxed to you. You can't deduct interest you've paid on policy loans. The interest you pay on any loans taken out against the cash value of your life insurance is not tax deductible. Certain loans on business-owned policies are an exception to this rule.
Taxation of policy loan. You can borrow against your life insurance policy, and the loan proceeds are generally not taxable to you (unless the policy is a modified endowment contract (MEC), see sidebar). A loan from a MEC is treated as a distribution from the MEC. A distribution from a MEC is subject to the income-out-first rule
However, if you cash in a policy early, you may have taxable income. A life insurance policy is similar to a savings account. You deposit money into the life insurance policy in the form of premiums, the insurer uses a portion of your deposits to pay for the life insurance benefit and the remainder is invested.