Definition. Osteopathy is a system and philosophy of health care that separated from traditional (allopathic) medical practice about a century ago. It places emphasis on the musculoskeletal system, hence the name—osteo refers to bone and path refers to disease. 
In the 21st century, the training of osteopathic medical physicians in the United States is very similar to the training of Doctors of Medicine (M.D.s). Osteopathic medical physicians attend four years of medical school followed by an internship and a minimum two years of residency. Osteopathic physicians (D.O.s) are licensed to practice medicine and surgery in all 50 states and are recognized in sixty five other countries, including all Canadian provinces. Frontier physician Andrew Taylor Still founded the profession as a rejection of the prevailing system of medical thought of the 19th century.
A Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.), more correctly called a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, is very much like a traditional medical doctor (M.D.), but receives additional training in the body's musculoskeletal system. Doctors of osteopathy believe that posture can affect the functionality of systems of the body. A doctor of osteopathy typically practices manipulative medicine treatment in addition to more traditional methods of symptom relief and prevention. A doctor of osteopathy studies the body as a whole. A doctor of osteopathy is less likely to specialize than a medical doctor
Benefits of Osteopathy. Osteopathic treatment in itself is not 'preventative' . Osteopaths respect the body's natural ability as a self-regulating mechanism and only intervene when pain or discomfort is present. The benefits of osteopathy are the general improvement in mobility and structural stability of the body. This therapy is a unique holistic (whole body) approach to health care. Osteopaths do not simply concentrate on treating the problem area, but use manual techniques to balance all the systems of the body, to provide overall good health and wellbeing.
email. Knowledge center. Osteopathy is a form of drug-free non-invasive manual medicine that focuses on total body health by treating and strengthening the musculoskeletal framework, which includes the joints, muscles and spine. Its aim is to positively affect the body's nervous, circulatory and lymphatic systems. This therapy is a unique holistic (whole body) approach to health care. Osteopaths do not simply concentrate on treating the problem area, but use manual techniques to balance all the systems of the body, to provide overall good health and wellbeing.
Page Content. ​ Developed more than 130 years ago by Andrew Taylor Still, MD, DO, osteopathic medicine brings a unique philosophy to traditional medicine. Osteopathic medicine focuses on the whole person, the relationship of the body’s nerves, muscles, bones and organs, and the body’s innate ability to heal itself
For the American Medical practice of osteopathic physicians in the United States, see Osteopathic medicine in the United States. For diseases of the bone, see bone disease and osteology. Osteopathy is a type of alternative medicine that emphasizes the physical manipulation of the body's muscle tissue and bones. Its name derives from Ancient Greek bone (ὀστέον) and disease of (-πάθεια), Analysis of peer-reviewed research yields little evidence that osteopathy is effective for non-musculo-skeletal conditions, and limited evidence that osteopathy is an effective treatment for some types of neck pain, shoulder pain, or limb pain.
Osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT in the U.S. or simply osteopathic treatment elsewhere) is the therapeutic application of manually guided forces by a practitioner, intended to improve physiologic function and/or support homeostasis that has been altered by somatic dysfunction. Analysis of peer-reviewed research yields little evidence that osteopathy is effective for non-musculo-skeletal conditions, and limited evidence that osteopathy is an effective treatment for some types of neck pain, shoulder pain, or limb pain.
Osteopathic medicine is a branch of the medical profession in the United States. Osteopathic physicians (D.O.s) are licensed to practice medicine and surgery in all 50 states and are recognized in sixty five other countries, including all Canadian provinces. Frontier physician Andrew Taylor Still founded the profession as a rejection of the prevailing system of medical thought of the 19th century.