About Iraqi News. Iraqi News is a private English-language online newspaper that covers a range of Iraqi issues, including business, politics, security, social issues, culture, entertainment and sport. It has no link to any political party or interest group. 
Iraq has two official languages: Arabic and Kurdish. Regional languages such as the Aramaic, South Azeri, Armenian, and Persian are also spoken in the country. English is spoken by a few people. 
While literary Arabic and Kurdish are the official languages, Iraqi  Arabic is generally spoken. Other languages used regionally  include:    Assyrian Neo-Aramaic  Ch … aldean Neo-Aramaic  Mandaic  Armenian  South Azeri     Arabic is the language in Iraq. Persia, now Iran, has Farsi as it's  language.
There are a number of languages spoken in Iraq, but Mesopotamian Arabic (Iraqi Arabic) is by far the most widely spoken in the country. Other smaller minority languages include Mandaic, Shabaki, Armenian, Feyli Lurish and Persian. Arabic, Kurdish, Persian, and South Azeri are written with versions of the Arabic script, the Neo-Aramaic languages in the Syriac script and Armenian is written in the Armenian script.
Answer   According to the CIA Factbook, the offical languages of Iraq are Arabic and Kurdish.   The Assyrians there speak Assyrian, which is a dialect of Neo-Aramaic. …   The Iraqi Turkomen, located in cities such as Arbil and Mosul, speak a dialect of South Azerbaijani, and write in Turkish. Other languages used regionally  include:    Assyrian Neo-Aramaic  Ch … aldean Neo-Aramaic  Mandaic  Armenian  South Azeri     Arabic is the language in Iraq. Persia, now Iran, has Farsi as it's  language.
The main forms of Arabic in Iraq are Mesopotamian and North Mesopotamian. These are the languages in the main populated areas of Iraq, North Mesopotamian belongs to the lands north of Baghdad. Both these two variants continue into Syria, where actually Mesopotamian is larger than North Mesopotamian.
From this list only Arabic is an official language of Iraq. Kurdish is also recognized as an official language, although not offered as a choice in this survey. Although 49 percent did choose Arabic, 18.3 percent chose Farsi, 2.2 percent chose Armenian, and 1.3 percent chose Turkish. A very small percentage (0.6%) chose Iroquois, a Native American language. NEW YORK, Jan. 30 /PRNewswire/ -- We've fought one war with Iraq and are inundated with media stories about a second. One would think Americans know some pretty basic facts about the country. But surprisingly, in a recent survey only 49 percent of respondents could name Arabic a
Answer   Most of the Iraqi people speak Arabic, some speak Kurdish (Kurds), maybe there're a few other languages spoken in Iraq, I'm not sure what other languages they sp … eak. 2 people found this useful. Iraqis, including non-Arab Iraqis (some of who identify themselves nationally and ethnically as Kurdish), speak Arabic. The customary greeting in Arabic, regardless of religious affiliation, is Salam Alaikum (peace be upon you)..
Arabic and Kurdish are the official languages, while Assyrian Neo-Aramaic and South Azeri (referred to as respectively Syriac and Turkmen in the constitution) are recognized regional languages. Other smaller minority languages include Mandaic, Shabaki, Armenian, Feyli Lurish and Persian. Arabic, Kurdish, Persian, and South Azeri are written with versions of the Arabic script, the Neo-Aramaic languages in the Syriac script and Armenian is written in the Armenian script.
Arabic is the majority language, Kurdish is spoken by approximately 15-20% of the population, South Azeri (called Turkmen locally), Neo-Aramaic languages and others by 5%. Other smaller minority languages include Mandaic, Shabaki, Armenian, Feyli Lurish and Persian. Arabic, Kurdish, Persian, and South Azeri are written with versions of the Arabic script, the Neo-Aramaic languages in the Syriac script and Armenian is written in the Armenian script.