The first mention of a manor on the land is following the Norman invasion of Ireland. In 1226, King Henry III gave a grant to Justiciary of Ireland Geoffroi de Morreis (de Marisco) to hold an eight-day annual fair following the Feast of St. James at his Manor of Adare.
The Trinitarian Order established their only monastery in Ireland in Adare in 1230. It is believed that the Trinitarian monks who came to Adare may have come from Scotland. The Abbey was restored in 1811 by the first Earl of Dunraven as the Catholic Parish church. 1 Adare was national winner of the Irish Tidy Towns Competition in 1976. 2  Cape Adare (Antarctica) was named in honour of Viscount Adare by his friend Captain Ross in January 1841.
Adare, Limerick. The five star Adare Manor Hotel & Golf Resort is set on a magnificent 840 acre estate in the heart of the picturesque village of Adare County Limerick. They offer unique Castle accommodation, the best of contemporary food and impeccable hospitality. Adare, Limerick. The Dunraven Arms, established in 1792, is one of the Southwest’s premier four-star hotels. Surrounded by the thatched cottages of Adare, the hotel offers the old-world ambiance of a country house combined with first-class service.
Adare Manor is a manor house located on the banks of the River Maigue in the village of Adare, County Limerick, Ireland, the former seat of the Earl of Dunraven and Mount-Earl. The present house was built in the early 19th-century, though retaining some of the walls of the 17th-century structure. In 1226, King Henry III gave a grant to Justiciary of Ireland Geoffroi de Morreis (de Marisco) to hold an eight-day annual fair following the Feast of St. James at his Manor of Adare.
Adare's origin is as a settlement by a crossing point on the river Maigue. It is situated 16 km (10 mi) from Limerick city. Renowned as one of Ireland's prettiest villages, Adare is designated as a Heritage Town by the Irish government. Due to its origin as village of the Dunraven estate (see also Thady Wyndham-Quin, 7th Earl of Dunraven and Mount-Earl), Adare has a more planned appearance than many Irish villages and towns. 1 Adare was national winner of the Irish Tidy Towns Competition in 1976. 2  Cape Adare (Antarctica) was named in honour of Viscount Adare by his friend Captain Ross in January 1841.
History. The Geraldines of Kildare developed Adare in mediaeval times and the present village was largely an early 19th century creation by the Dunravens. The building of the Gothic style Adare manor began in 1831. The Franciscan Friary. Crossing the bridge over the river Maigue to the Adare Manor Golf Club, the friary is a characteristic example of the monasteries erected in Ireland during the 14th and 15th centuries. It was founded in 1464 by Thomas, the 7th Earl of Kildare, for the Franciscan Friars of the Strict Observance.
Adare, Limerick. The River Maigue rises in the Ballyhoura Mountains in north County Cork and flows in a northerly direction through Croom and Adare to join the Shannon Estuary west of Limerick City. This River System is primarily a trout fishery. Adare, Limerick. The Dunraven Arms, established in 1792, is one of the Southwest’s premier four-star hotels. Surrounded by the thatched cottages of Adare, the hotel offers the old-world ambiance of a country house combined with first-class service.