(Redirected from Extensor pollicis brevis). In human anatomy, the extensor pollicis brevis is a skeletal muscle on the dorsal side of the forearm. It lies on the medial side of, and is closely connected with, the abductor pollicis longus. Structure [edit]. The extensor pollicis brevis arises from the radius distal to the abductor pollicis longus, from the interosseous membrane, and from the dorsal surface of the radius.
• MUSCULUS ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (noun). The noun MUSCULUS ABDUCTOR POLLICIS has 1 sense: 1. the abductor muscle of the thumb. Familiarity information: MUSCULUS ABDUCTOR POLLICIS used as a noun is very rare. 
Medical Definition of POLLICIS. —see abductor pollicis brevis, abductor pollicis longus, adductor pollicis, extensor pollicis brevis, extensor pollicis longus, flexor pollicis brevis, flexor pollicis longus, opponens pollicis, princeps pollicis. 10 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  pollicis. 2  abductor pollicis brevis (noun). 3  abductor pollicis longus (noun). 4  adductor pollicis (noun). 5  extensor pollicis brevis (noun). 6  extensor pollicis longus (noun). 7  flexor pollicis brevis (noun). 8  flexor pollicis longus (noun). 9  opponens pollicis (noun). 10  princeps pollicis (noun).
In human anatomy, the extensor indicis [proprius] is a narrow, elongated skeletal muscle in the deep layer of the dorsal forearm, placed medial to, and parallel with, the extensor pollicis longus. Its tendon goes to the index finger, which it extends. 
Abductor pollicis brevis. The abductor pollicis brevis muscle is located in the hand between the wrist and the base of the thumb. It originates from the flexor retinaculum and the tubercles of the scaphoid and trapezium bones. This muscle is also involved in the extension and opposition of the thumb. Opposition refers to the ability of the thumb to rotate and touch the other fingers. The recurrent branch of the median nerve controls the abductor pollicis brevis muscle.
Confidence votes 148. The word pollicis in anatomy makes a reference to anything to do with the thumb. For example, the muscle Flexor pollicus longis refers to the muscle that causes flexion of the thumb, and has a long tendon. Try putting the term together with other anatomical terms and see if they make any sense! :). 
Extensor pollicis longus. The extensor pollicis longus muscle begins at the ulna and the interosseous membrane, a tough fibrous tissue that connects the ulna and the radius in the lower arm. It is a skeletal muscle and is controlled by the motor nervous system. Its fibers are striated, which means they are arranged in parallel. The extensor pollicis longus muscle ends at the distal phalanx (the tip) of the thumb. The muscle serves to extend the thumb. When moving the thumb, the muscle uses the radial tubercle as a pulley.
The word pollicis in anatomy makes a reference to anything to do with the thumb. For example, the muscle Flexor pollicus longis refers to the muscle that causes flexion of the … thumb, and has a long tendon. Try putting the term together with other anatomical terms and see if they make any sense! 
It is flat, thin, elongated, and triangular in shape. The abductor pollicis brevis is the largest muscle of the thenar eminence muscle group, which is comprised of several muscles that control the thumb. The main function of the muscle is to abduct the thumb, or move it away from the palm. This muscle is also involved in the extension and opposition of the thumb. Opposition refers to the ability of the thumb to rotate and touch the other fingers. The recurrent branch of the median nerve controls the abductor pollicis brevis muscle.