The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The other region is called smooth ER because it lacks attached ribosomes. Typically, the smooth ER is a tubule network and the rough ER is a series of flattened sacs. In liver cells the smooth ER produces enzymes that help to detoxify certain compounds. In muscles the smooth ER assists in the contraction of muscle cells, and in brain cells it synthesizes male and female hormones. The endoplasmic reticulum is only one component of a cell.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a type of organelle in the cells of eukaryotic organisms that forms an interconnected network of flattened, membrane-enclosed sacs or tube like structures known as cisternae. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
It can be defined as a eukaryotic organelle, which forms a network of tubules, vesicles and cisternae within the cells. There are two regions of the Endoplasmic reticulum, which differ in both structure and function. The space, which is present in the endoplasmic reticulum, is called as the lumen. A diagram of Endoplasmic Reticulum. In plant cell, the endoplasmic reticulum acts as a port for the entry of proteins into the membrane. It also plays a vital role in the biosynthesis and storage of lipids.
Abstract. Phagocytosis is a key aspect of our innate ability to fight infectious diseases. In this study, we have found that fusion of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) with the macrophage plasmalemma, underneath phagocytic cups, is a source of membrane for phagosome formation in macrophages. Accordingly, we propose that ER-mediated phagocytosis is a general mechanism of entry in macrophages (Figure 7D) . Binding of a particle to the cell surface initiates the formation and elongation of pseudopodia firmly attaching it to the PM.
The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
Abstract. Macrophages show endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress when exposed to lipotoxic signals associated with atherosclerosis, although the pathophysiological importance and the underlying mechanisms of this phenomenon remain unknown.
The endoplasm is the inner core of the cytoplasm and the membranes of the ER are continuous with the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope. Endoplasmic reticulum occurs in most types of eukaryotic cells, including the most primitive Giardia, but is absent from red blood cells and spermatozoa. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
Endoplasmic Reticulum. Endoplasmic reticulum is a continuous membrane, which is present in both plant cells, animal cells and absent in prokaryotic cells. It is the membrane of network tubules and flattened sacs, which serves a variety of functions within the cell. The space, which is present in the endoplasmic reticulum, is called as the lumen. A diagram of Endoplasmic Reticulum. In plant cell, the endoplasmic reticulum acts as a port for the entry of proteins into the membrane. It also plays a vital role in the biosynthesis and storage of lipids.
Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant), and it serves different functions in each. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum also contains the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
The Endoplasmic Reticulum The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a network of flattened sacs and branching tubules that extends throughout the cytoplasm in plant and animal cells. The endoplasmic reticulum manufactures, processes, and transports a wide variety of biochemical compounds for use inside and outside of the cell. Consequently, many of the proteins found in the cisternal space of the endoplasmic reticulum lumen are there only transiently as they pass on their way to other locations.