8. Recaptured neurotransmitter. Exocytosis (/ˌɛksɵsaɪˈtoʊsɨs/) is a form of active transport in which a cell transports molecules (such as proteins) out of the cell (exo- + cytosis) by expelling them in an energy-using process.
Secretory vesicle formation and dynamics. The intracellular vesicle transport. The structural and metabolic stability of a eukaryotic cell depends on the trafficking of material between sub-cellular compartments. 
Vesicles Carry Cargo. Most molecules, including proteins, are too large to pass directly through membranes. Instead, large molecules are loaded into small membrane-wrapped containers called vesicles. Vesicles are constantly forming-especially at the plasma membrane, the ER, and the Golgi. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Docaya. Confidence votes 86. Vesicular transport is an active process in which materials move into or out of the cell. enclosed as vesicles. Vesicles are bubble-like structures surrounded by a membrane
Vesicle-mediated transport | Back to Top. Vesicles and vacuoles that fuse with the cell membrane may be utilized to release or transport chemicals out of the cell or to allow them to enter a cell. Exocytosis is the term applied when transport is out of the cell. 
trans·cy·to·sis. A mechanism for transcellular transport in which a cell encloses extracellular material in an invagination of the cell membrane to form a vesicle (endocytosis), then moves the vesicle across the cell to eject the material through the opposite cell membrane by the reverse process (exocytosis). 
Related phrases: synaptic vesicle, auditory vesicle, optic vesicle, seminal vesicle. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 22 July 2008, at 02:14.This page has been accessed 279,365 times. noun, plural: vesicles. (general) A small sac or cyst containing fluid or gas. (cell biology) A bubble-like membranous structure that stores and transports cellular products, and digests metabolic wastes within the cell; an intracellular membranous sac that is separated from the cytosol by at least one lipid bilayer.
Noun. 1. vesicle-a small anatomically normal sac or bladderlike structure (especially one containing fluid). cyst. dacryocyst, lacrimal sac, tear sac-either of the two dilated ends of the lacrimal ducts at the nasal ends of the eyes that fill with tears secreted by the lacrimal glands. 
transport vesicle s. Small membrane-bounded organelles that carry secretory and membrane proteins in both directions between the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi complex, and from the Golgi to the cell surface or other destination. Many transport vesicle s from the ER travel to the Golgi apparatus for modification of their contents. The Golgi is a center of manufacturing, warehousing, sorting, and shipping.