Teleology pervades Aristotle's philosophy, perhaps like no other notion. Its applications range from elemental theory and chemistry, to psychology, biology, astronomy, ethics and politics. Surveying the uses of teleology throughout his philosophy can thus serve as a good introduction to Aristotle's overall philosophy. Monte Ransome Johnson's study provides such a survey, and in the process gives us an in-depth analysis of Aristotelian teleology, its nature and its limitations. Johnson's own general view of Aristotle's teleology is this: 'Aristotle thinks that the fact that things function well in nature needs a general explanation.
For Aristotle, nature is an inner principle or reality, part of this world, and a goal-directed source of action. This is Aristotle's belief in teleology: all things in nature, and nature herself, has a purpose. . Human nature: inner reality that directs all human behavior towards its goal-which is human excellence. 
The Teleology of Nature. Teleology is the study of the ends or purposes that things serve, and Aristotle’s emphasis on teleology has repercussions throughout his philosophy. Aristotle believed that the best way to understand why things are the way they are is to understand what purpose they were designed to serve. 
Teleology. From Wikiquote. Teleology is the study of the purpose or design of natural occurrences. A teleology is any philosophical account that holds that final causes exist in nature, meaning that, analogous to purposes found in human actions, nature inherently tends toward definite ends. Teleologies may be formulated as natural, human, or in terms of a deity
Aristotle's political philosophy is distinguished by its underlying philosophical doctrines. Of these the following five principles are especially noteworthy: (1) Principle of teleology Aristotle begins the Politics by invoking the concept of nature (see Political Naturalism). In the Physics Aristotle identifies the nature of a thing above all with its end or final cause (Physiscs II.2.194a28–9, 8.199b15–18). The Politics further argues that it is part of the nature of human beings that they are political or adapted for life in the city-state. Thus teleology is crucial for the political naturalism which is at the foundation of Aristotle's political philosophy.
Abstract. Aristotle is commonly considered the inventor of teleology, although the precise term originated in the eighteenth century. But if teleology means the use of ends or goals in natural science, then Aristotle was rather a critical innovator of teleological explanation. Instead, he considers nature itself as an internal principle of change and as an end, and his teleological explanations focus on what is intr ... More. Aristotle is commonly considered the inventor of teleology, although the precise term originated in the eighteenth century.
Aristotle's Concept of Teleology. In his Physics, Aristotle examines the theories and ideas regarding nature of his predecessors and then, based upon his own ideas, theories and experiments, argues against what he believes are incorrect conclusions. One idea that Aristotle argues specifically is teleology. Teleology is the idea that natural phenomena are determined not only by mechanical causes but by an overall design or purpose in nature. In this essay, I will examine what Aristotle's concept of teleology was and look at why he held this conception. First, let's talk about what we mean by teleology. Teleology is the study of ends, purposes, and goals. The word comes from the Greek word telos which means end or purpose
Teleology is a reason or explanation for something in function of its end, purpose, or goal. For example, a teleological explanation of why forks have prongs is that this design helps humans eat certain foods; stabbing food to help humans eat is what forks are for. It is derived from two Greek words: telos (end, goal, purpose) and logos (reason, explanation).
In western philosophy, the term and concept of teleology originated in the writings of Plato and Aristotle. Aristotle's Four Causes give special place to each thing's telos or final cause.. In this, he followed Plato in seeing purpose in both human and sub-human nature. For example, a teleological explanation of why forks have prongs is that this design helps humans eat certain foods; stabbing food to help humans eat is what forks are for. It is derived from two Greek words: telos (end, goal, purpose) and logos (reason, explanation).