Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I have flown into the airport in Ft. Lauderdale and then went to the cruise terminal in Ft Lauderdale to board my cruise ship. I assume that's what you mean as well with your question and not the Miami cruise terminal from the Ft Lauderdale airport. The price that you quote from the cruise line is what you'd pay to go from FLL to the Miami cruise port. I don't believe that $20 is all a taxi will charge. Considering the airport is over 30 miles from Miami cruise terminal. AJ · 5 years ago.
From Fort Lauderdale/Hollywood International Airport (FLL). If you are flying into Fort Lauderdale and want to go straight to your cruise ship there are a few options for you. The airport is very close to the cruise terminal via U.S. 1. The quickest and arguably simplest option is to take a taxi from the airport and have them drive you to the port.
Port Everglades is located in Fort Lauderdale, just 2 miles from the Fort Lauderdale International Airport. The terminals are spread out between the northport and midport areas of Port Everglades. Signs will be posted daily to direct you to your cruise line's dock. 
Free shuttle from the Fort Lauderdale Cruise Terminal. 1  Best Western Fort Lauderdale Inn, 1221 State Road 84. 2  Comfort Suites Airport & Cruise Port in Fort Lauderdale, 1800 South Federal Highway. Free shuttle from with pickups from Port Everglades Cruise Port hourly 5:00-1:00 a.m. For dropoffs sign up at the hotel's front desk. 1  Holiday Inn Fort Lauderdale Airport, 2905 Sheridan Street.
The distance between Fort Lauderdale Airport (FLL) and Port of Miami Cruise Ship Terminal is 24 miles and the estimated drive time from the Fort Lauderdale / Hollywood International Airport to Port of Miami Cruise Ship Terminal is approximately 45 minutes. Notes: We offer transportation from Fort Lauderdale Airport to Port of Miami Cruise Ship Terminal.
Later this year my wife and I will taking a cruise out of Ft Lauderdale. We will take a direct flight from SeaTac to Miami (there are none to Ft. Lauderdale) so we will need to find some mode of transportation to get from the airport to the cruise ship port (which appears to be roughly 25 miles distant). Short of...
Miami Cruise Transportation is pleased to offer private transportation between Fort Lauderdale Airport and Port of Miami Cruise Port Terminal. This service is a perfect way for you and your family or group to get from the airport or hotel to Port of Miami. We also provide service from Fort Lauderdale area hotels to the Port of Miami. The fares below are based on your group size and not per person. Fares are the same in either direction. Round-Trip (Return) Fares are simply double the one-way fares. Our Fares Are 100% All Inclusive! Even Driver Gratuity is INCLUDED! Fort Lauderdale Airport to Port of Miami Transportation Rates. Travel Time From Fort Lauderdale Airport to Port of Miami Cruise Port Is about 45 Minutes to One Hour.
The Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport is just minutes away from Port Everglades on U.S. 1 and is served by most major airlines. Although it's a short distance, we suggest you allow at least 45 minutes between flight arrival and cruise check-in time to claim luggage and fill out forms at the terminal. The Miami International Airport is 30 minutes south of Port Everglades via I-95. The state-of-the art Rental Car Center at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (FLL) house a large number of rental car companies in one location with shared shuttle bus service for Port Everglades.
If you're driving from outside of Fort Lauderdale (elsewhere in Florida or out of state), you can get easily to the main entrance of Port Everglades via U.S.1, I-95, State Road 7 (441), Florida's Turnpike, Sawgrass Expressway and I-75. If you are flying into Fort Lauderdale and want to go straight to your cruise ship there are a few options for you. The airport is very close to the cruise terminal via U.S. 1. The quickest and arguably simplest option is to take a taxi from the airport and have them drive you to the port.