The vagus nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and accessory nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. Cranial nerves related to the innervation of the head muscles include the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens and the hypoglossal nerves. Cranial nerves related to innervation of structures originating from branchial arches include the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves.
The glossopharyngeal nerve, known as the ninth cranial nerve, is a mixed nerve that carries afferent sensory and efferent motor information. Upon emerging from the lateral aspect of the medulla the branchial motor component joins the other components of CN IX to exit the skull via the jugular foramen. The glossopharyngeal fibers travel just anterior to the cranial nerves X and XI, which als
The glossopharyngeal nerve is a paired set of nerves, which is part of the 24 cranial nerves. These nerves are arranged in twelve pairs, of which the glossopharyngeal is the ninth. The glossopharyngeal nerve connects to the brainstem at the upper medulla, travels through the base of the skull at the jugular foramen, and ends in the mouth in the mucous glands, palatine tonsil, and the base of the tongue.
Overview. Embryologically, the glossopharyngeal nerve is associated with the derivatives of the third pharyngeal arch. Sensory: Innervates the oropharynx, carotid body and sinus, posterior 1/3 of the tongue, middle ear cavity and Eustachian tube. Fig 1.2 – Path of the parasympathetic fibres to the parotid gland. The glossopharyngeal nerve provides parasympathetic innervation to the parotid gland. These fibres originate in the inferior salivatory nucleus of CN IX. These fibres travel with the tympanic nerve to the middle ear.
It exits the brainstem out from the sides of the upper medulla, just rostral (closer to the nose) to the vagus nerve. The motor division of the glossopharyngeal nerve is derived from the basal plate of the embryonic medulla oblongata, while the sensory division originates from the cranial neural crest. Upon emerging from the lateral aspect of the medulla the branchial motor component joins the other components of CN IX to exit the skull via the jugular foramen. The glossopharyngeal fibers travel just anterior to the cranial nerves X and XI, which als
Structure [edit]. From the anterior portion of the medulla oblongata, the glossopharyngeal nerve passes laterally across or below the flocculus, and leaves the skull through the central part of the jugular foramen. From the superior and inferior ganglia in jugular foramen, it has its own sheath of dura mater. Upon emerging from the lateral aspect of the medulla the branchial motor component joins the other components of CN IX to exit the skull via the jugular foramen. The glossopharyngeal fibers travel just anterior to the cranial nerves X and XI, which als
The glossopharyngeal nerve supplies sensory innervation to the oropharynx, and thus carries the afferent information for the gag reflex. When a foreign object touches the back of the mouth, this stimulates CNIX, beginning the reflex. The efferent nerve in this process is the vagus nerve, CNX. Fig 1.2 – Path of the parasympathetic fibres to the parotid gland. The glossopharyngeal nerve provides parasympathetic innervation to the parotid gland. These fibres originate in the inferior salivatory nucleus of CN IX. These fibres travel with the tympanic nerve to the middle ear.
The glossopharyngeal nerve is the ninth (IX) of the twelve pairs of cranial nerves. It exits the brainstem out from the sides of the upper medulla, just rostral to the vagus nerve and has sensory, motor, and autonomic components. Supply. There are a number of functions of the glossopharyngeal nerve: 1  receives general sensory fibers from the tonsils, the pharynx, the middle ear and the posterior one third of the tongue. 2  receives special sensory fibers (taste) from the posterior one-
The accessory nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group. Cranial nerves related to the innervation of the head muscles include the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens and the hypoglossal nerves. Cranial nerves related to innervation of structures originating from branchial arches include the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus and accessory nerves.
The glossopharyngeal nerve, along with the vagus nerve, forms part of the pharyngeal plexus, which supplies nerves to the palate and parts of the throat (larynx and pharynx). Back to Neck. The glossopharyngeal nerve connects to the brainstem at the upper medulla, travels through the base of the skull at the jugular foramen, and ends in the mouth in the mucous glands, palatine tonsil, and the base of the tongue.