​Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZA) was established in 1996 within the boundaries of Dubai International Airport, and is considered as one of the fastest growing Free Zones in the region. The DAFZA Free Zone is a strategic gateway for developing Dubai as a successful centre for business, trade and investment. Health. ​ Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZA) was established in 1996 within the boundaries of Dubai International Airport, and is considered as one of the fastest growing Free Zones in the region.
Why DAFZA? As the leading free zone services provider in the Middle East, Dubai Airport Freezone offers integrated business solutions to the global business Read more New Clients We offer a choice of premium offices for rent in Dubai for you to set up your business operation. 1 Dubai Airport Freezone Authority (DAFZA) has announced that its net profit grew 48 per cent in 2014 over the previous year, with total revenues up by 13 per cent.
Education. ​ Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZA) was established in 1996 within the boundaries of Dubai International Airport, and is considered as one of the fastest growing Free Zones in the region. Health. ​ Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZA) was established in 1996 within the boundaries of Dubai International Airport, and is considered as one of the fastest growing Free Zones in the region.
Located adjacent to the busiest international airport in the region, Dubai Airport Freezone is a unique place for electronics, engineering, logistics & cargo, aviation and pharmaceutical firms. Its highly equipped infrastructure which is built in response to the clients requirements and needs is second to none. Home to over 1600 international firms from various parts of the world, the Free zone positions itself as one of the fastest growing economic zones in the region. Since its inception fifteen years back, Dubai Airport Freezone contributed enormously to Dubai’s GDP with 2.27% and AED 52 billion in the total trade volume.
The Dubai Airport Freezone Authority (DAFZA) is an organization that deals with import and export trades and services. Since our launch in 1996 DAFZA remains the governing body that administers trade licenses and visas to international companies wanting to do business from Dubai within the freezone. 
Dubai Airport Free Zone, 03rd East Wing Building, 04th Floor, P.O.Box - 54620, Dubai. The office space in Dubai Airport Free Zone is in the Dubai International Airport buildings just beside Terminal 2. Situated in a business park, the offices are in the East Wing 3 building. Thanks to strong government support, Dubai has developed into the Middle East's most technologically advanced country. 
Dubai Airport Freezone (DAFZA) is ranked 1st globally by the Foreign Direct Investment Magazine’s Global Free Zones & Awards 2012/13, . DAFZA won this rating as a result of its outstanding strategic approach and well-articulated plans to service its investors and partners. Home to over 1600 international firms from various parts of the world, the Free zone positions itself as one of the fastest growing economic zones in the region. Since its inception fifteen years back, Dubai Airport Freezone contributed enormously to Dubai’s GDP with 2.27% and AED 52 billion in the total trade volume.
Dubai Airport Free Zone, 03rd East Wing Building, 04th Floor, P.O.Box - 54620, Dubai. The Dubai Airport Free Zone is in the Dubai International Airport buildings just beside Terminal 2. Situated in a business park, the business centre is in the East Wing 3 building. Thanks to strong government support, Dubai has developed into the Middle East's most technologically advanced country. 
Charity. ​ Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZA) was established in 1996 within the boundaries of Dubai International Airport, and is considered as one of the fastest growing Free Zones in the region. Health. ​ Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZA) was established in 1996 within the boundaries of Dubai International Airport, and is considered as one of the fastest growing Free Zones in the region.