Front View of the Liver. The liver is a large, meaty organ that sits on the right side of the belly. Weighing about 3 pounds, the liver is reddish-brown in color and feels rubbery to the touch. Normally you can't feel the liver, because it's protected by the rib cage. The liver has two large sections, called the right and the left lobes. 
The liver is located on the upper side of your right abdomen below your diaphragm and enclosed by your rib cage. At the back of your liver is where the gallbladder is located and closer to the spleen, stomach, intestines and kidneys. You can actually feel your liver by laying your fingers under your right rib cage. The liver processes everything you ingest into your body, from foods to medicines, even lotions and deodorants. Know where your liver is located. Now that you already have an idea as to the exact location of the liver, check the location of your liver. lie down onto the floor and push the right side of your abdomen below your rib cage and inhale. A healthy liver must be situated along the diaphragm all through your lowest rib
The liver is the largest internal organ of the body and is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and is protected by the lower right ribs. It also extends across the midline toward the left upper quadrant of the abdomen. 
Liver pain is not something to be ignored. It could be a sign of a serious health condition. Therefore it is important to know where it is and what it does in the body. Your liver is located near your abdomen on the right side,actually beneath your ribs and above your diaphragm which separates the chest and the abdomen. 
The liver is one of the most important organs in the body. So, it is natural for you to be curious about the location and functions of the liver. Here we will take a detailed look on the placement of the liver, its functions, and also about the diseases associated with it. Location of the Liver. In simplest terms, it can be said that the liver is located on the right side of the abdominal cavity, just below the diaphragm. In scientific terms, it is said to be located in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity. The gallbladder is located to the exact back side of the liver in the human body
Answers to where is your liver located, what does the liver do and how to keep a healthy liver. The liver is actually one of the most powerful organs in your body (next to the brain and heart, probably), and it serves more functions than most of your organs. Answers to where is your liver located, what does the liver do and how to keep a healthy liver. There are many different things that can cause liver diseases, and this is where the liver information on the various diseases will come in very handy.
Liver. The liver is the body’s largest gland. It is a vital organ that supports nearly every other organ in the body in some facet. Without a healthy liver, a person cannot survive. The liver is the largest glandular organ in the body and performs multiple critical functions to keep the body pure of toxins and harmful substances. An average adult liver weighs about three pounds.
Well, first of all the liver is a nifty little organ that you can find nestled snugly beneath your ribs on the right side of your body. It is immediately beneath your lungs and your heart, and it kind of wraps protectively around the top part of your stomach. Answers to where is your liver located, what does the liver do and how to keep a healthy liver. There are many different things that can cause liver diseases, and this is where the liver information on the various diseases will come in very handy.