In a health sense the benefits are from the richness parsley has in Vitamins A B C plus protein minerals iron and calcium. The roots are a richer source of Vitamin C than oran … ges. It is an antidote to the dreaded garlic breath if chewed and helps digest rich food. 
Parsley is widely used in Middle Eastern, European, and American cooking. Curly leaf parsley is often used as a garnish. In central and eastern Europe and in western Asia, many dishes are served with fresh green chopped parsley sprinkled on top. Parsley grows best in moist, well-drained soil, with full sun. It grows best between 22–30 °C (72–86 °F), and usually is grown from seed. Germination is slow, taking four to six weeks, and it often is difficult because of furanocoumarins in its seed coat.
Where it grows as a biennial, in the first year, it forms a rosette of tripinnate leaves 10–25 cm (3.9–9.8 in) long with numerous 1–3 cm (0.4–1.2 in) leaflets, and a taproot used as a food store over the winter. Parsley grows best in moist, well-drained soil, with full sun. It grows best between 22–30 °C (72–86 °F), and usually is grown from seed. Germination is slow, taking four to six weeks, and it often is difficult because of furanocoumarins in its seed coat.
Flat-Ieaved parsley is found in Moroccan dishes, from spiced tagines with preserved lemons, to dishes flavored by a chermoula blend that includes coriander leaves, onions, cumin and cayenne pepper. With its stronger flavour, it is more frequently used in cooking, particularly since it stands up well to heat. There is a third and much less familiar form of parsley called Hamburg parsley or Soup parsley (var. sativum). In this variety the root that is the star of the show. The leaves can be used but they are a bit too strong for most people’s taste. Its flavor is a pungent cross between celery and parsley — definitely tasty.
Parsley or garden parsley (Petroselinum crispum) is a species of Petroselinum in the family Apiaceae, native to the central Mediterranean region (southern Italy, Algeria, and Tunisia), naturalized elsewhere in Europe, and widely cultivated as a herb, a spice, and a vegetable. Parsley grows best in moist, well-drained soil, with full sun. It grows best between 22–30 °C (72–86 °F), and usually is grown from seed. Germination is slow, taking four to six weeks, and it often is difficult because of furanocoumarins in its seed coat.
Expert Answers. Parsley comes from Italy and Hamburg. It is a herb that comes in three types, flat, broad and parsnip rooted. It is usually added at the last moment for added flavor
1. Choose a type of parsley. Parsley comes in two general varieties: curly leaf and flat leaf (also known as Italian parsley). Flat leaf parsley tends to have a slightly stronger flavor than that of curly-leaf parsley, but both types are relatively mild. Tips. 1  Parsley also grows well indoors in a sunny location. 2  If you grow parsley inside, be sure to use deep pots to allow the plants to develop their long roots. 3  The roots of parsley plants are also edible. 4  Depending on the variety of parsley you grow, the roots may be similar to parsnips or carrots.
Garden parsley is a bright green, biennial, plant in temperate climates, or an annual herb in subtropical and tropical areas. Where it grows as a biennial, in the first year, it forms a rosette of tripinnate leaves 10–25 cm long with numerous 1–3 cm leaflets, and a taproot used as a food store over the winter. Parsley grows best in moist, well-drained soil, with full sun. It grows best between 22–30 °C (72–86 °F), and usually is grown from seed. Germination is slow, taking four to six weeks, and it often is difficult because of furanocoumarins in its seed coat.