Page 1 of 2 fact sheet biodiversity Spinifex grasslands Triodia species, more commonly known as Spinifex, Hummock Grass or Porcupine Grass, are not a common element in the Queensland Murray Darling Basin region and are often overlooked in conservation and research efforts. 
1 Spinifex (genus) , a genus of grass which is indigenous to the coastal areas of Australasia and Indonesia. 2  Triodia (plant) , a hummock grass of arid Australia, covering twenty percent of the Australian continent (although not technically Spinifex, it is commonly referred to as such). 3  Spinifex resin. 1 Triodia (plant) , a hummock grass of arid Australia, covering twenty percent of the Australian continent (although not technically Spinifex, it is commonly referred to as such). 2  Spinifex resin. 3  Spinifex hopping mouse, a mouse native to the central and western Australian arid zones.
Triodia is a large genus of grass endemic to Australia. They are often called spinifex, but they are not a part of the genus Spinifex, which is only found near the coast. There are 64 known species. Triodia is a perennial grass that grows in dry areas. They have spikey, pointed leaves, about 30-40 centimetres long.
1 Stretch, John (1996) Fire management of spinifex pastures in the coastal and west Pilbara South Perth, W.A. 2  Agriculture Western Australia. 3  Miscellaneous publication, 1326-4168; 23/96. 4  Williams. They are one of the most common plants that grow in sand dunes along the coasts of Africa, Middle East, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and New Caledonia, with the ranges of some species extending north and west along the coasts of Asia as far as India and Japan.
Spinifex texture. This komatiite sample displays the characteristic spinifex texture defined by extremely acicular olivine phenocrysts--probably a sign of rapid crystallization from a significantly-undercooled magma.
Spinifex may refer to: 1  Spinifex (genus) , a genus of grass which is indigenous to the coastal areas of Australasia and Indonesia. 2  Triodia (plant) , a hummock grass of arid Australia, covering twenty percent of the Australian continent (although not technically Spinifex, it is commonly referred to as such). 1 Triodia (plant) , a hummock grass of arid Australia, covering twenty percent of the Australian continent (although not technically Spinifex, it is commonly referred to as such). 2  Spinifex resin. 3  Spinifex hopping mouse, a mouse native to the central and western Australian arid zones.
A biography of the Australian continent. Spinifex Grasslands (hummock grasslands). Spinifex country Spinifex grassland fauna Spinifex species. Compared to the grassland ecosystems of the world this is probably the weirdest. Whereas other grasslands have large mammalian grazers and large predators to prey on them the spinifex grassland has termites as herbivores and lizards as the predators of the termites.
Confusingly, the word spinifex is also used as a common name referring to grasses in the related genus Triodia. Triodia however is native to inland Australia and refers to a group of spiny-leaved, tussock-forming grasses. They are one of the most common plants that grow in sand dunes along the coasts of Africa, Middle East, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and New Caledonia, with the ranges of some species extending north and west along the coasts of Asia as far as India and Japan.
Spinifex thrives on the poorest, most arid soils Australia has to offer. It is Spinifex that has prevented our deserts from becoming a Sahara-like world of bare, shifting sand. Spinifex roots go down a long way: approximately 3 metres. Generally the roots develop from the same nodes as the shoots so that each shoot has its own personal water supply. The spiky leaves contain a lot of silica which makes them stiff and rigid. Spinifex is tough and indigestible to most animals except termites. Desert Aboriginal people collect certain species of Spinifex and bash it with a stick on a clean surface to begin the extraction of resin which occurs at the base of the stems. The chaff is heated with a fire stick causing the resin to melt.