Celiac disease is caused by a reaction to gliadin-a gluten protein found in wheat, barley, rye, and sometimes oats. The inflammation and destruction of the inner lining of the small intestine in celiac disease is caused by an allergic reaction to gluten in the diet. 
Yet paradoxically, most of the people who reach for gluten-free products don’t have celiac disease and or even a sensitivity to wheat, Peter H.R. Green, MD, director of the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University, told WebMD. The market for gluten-free products is exploding. Many people may just perceive that a gluten-free diet is healthier.. In fact, it isn’t. For people with celiac disease, a gluten-free diet is essential. But for others, unless people are very careful, a gluten-free diet can lack vitamins, minerals, and fiber, says Green.
If you are experiencing symptoms when eating foods that contain wheat, barley, rye or oats and think you have a sensitivity to gluten, it’s important to first rule out coeliac disease. 
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, and rye. Gluten also shows up in many whole grain foods related to wheat, including bulgur, farro, kamut, spelt, and triticale (a hybrid of wheat and rye). Some celiac disease experts warn patients to steer clear of oats, as well. Many people may just perceive that a gluten-free diet is healthier.. In fact, it isn’t. For people with celiac disease, a gluten-free diet is essential. But for others, unless people are very careful, a gluten-free diet can lack vitamins, minerals, and fiber, says Green.
More than 55 diseases have been linked to gluten, the protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. It's estimated that 99% of the people who have either gluten intolerance or celiac disease are never diagnosed. It is also estimated that as much as 15% of the US population is gluten intolerant. 
A blood test is the most common way to test for gluten allergies. A thorough workup includes four tests. In the vast majority of patients, a strict gluten-free diet will relieve the symptoms. Make sure you really do have a gluten intolerance before you stop eating cakes. Source(s): http://www.foodreactions.org/gluten/ http://www.patsypie.com/celiac_disease_g... 
Gluten-related disorders is the umbrella term for all diseases triggered by gluten. Gluten-related disorders/gliadin-related disorders include celiac disease and non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS). Formerly, also gluten intolerance has been used as umbrella term, and the expression gluten sensitivity has been used either as umbrella term or for NCGS. Autoimmune conditions related to gluten include celiac disease, dermatitis herpetiformis, and gluten ataxia. There is research showing that in certain patients with gluten ataxia early diagnosis and treatment with a gluten-free diet can improve ataxia and prevent its progression.
Definition. A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes the protein gluten. Gluten is found in grains such as wheat, barley, rye, and a cross between wheat and rye called triticale. A gluten-free diet is primarily used to treat celiac disease. Gluten causes inflammation in the small intestines of people with celiac disease. 