In Chemistry, valence electrons are the electrons that are located in the outermost electron shell of an element. Knowing how to find the number of valence electrons in a particular atom is an important skill for chemists because this information determines the kinds of chemical bonds that it can form.
The ground state electronic configuration of carbon is: 6 C (Ground state): 1s 2 2s 2 2p x 1 2p z 0. Carbon atom has 4 electrons in its valence shell and, therefore, it can attain a noble gas configuration either by losing or gaining or sharing 4 electrons.
1 For example purposes, let's find the valence electrons for a very common element: carbon (C). 2  This element has an atomic number of 6. 3  It is located at the top of group 14. 4  In the next step, we'll find its valence electrons.
The valence electrons (VE) are the electrons in the outer shell of an atom. The valence electrons are the ones involved in forming bonds to adjacent atoms. Therefore, the number of VE is important for determining the number of bonds an atom will form, the number of unpaired electrons, and an atom’s formal charge.
The electron configuration of carbon is 1s22s22p2, with 4 electrons in its valence shell (its valence shell consists of 2s22p2 - 2 electrons in the 2s orbital and 2 electrons in the 2p orbital).
How to: For neutral atoms, the number of valence electrons is equal to the atom’s main group number. number of valence electrons = main group number. (neutral atoms). The main group number for an element can be found from its column on the periodic table. For example, carbon is in group 4 and has 4 valence electrons. Oxygen is in group 6 and has 6 valence electrons. For charged atoms, there is a deviation from the normal number of valence electrons. The charge on an atom tells you how much of a deviation there is from an element’s normal valence number.
Valence Electrons and Energy Levels. The electron is one of the most important factors in determining how an atom will react with another atom or molecule. A single electron can make all the difference in the properties of an atom. For example, sodium has one outer electron, located in that 3 s orbital.