Introduction. Most of you may not think of asthma as a killer disease, yet more that 5,000 Americans die of asthma each year. According to the Mayo Clinic web page, asthma also accounts for more that 400,000 hospital discharges annually. As the number of people with asthma increases, the more likely you are to come in contact with a person who has the disease. As far as I can remember, I have had asthma my whole life. In most cases, asthma can result from a combination of allergic and no allergic responses. Some triggers include: -allergens such as pollen and mold. -air pollutants. -smoking and second hand smoke. -physical exertions. -cold air. Asthma can develop at any age, even well into the age of 70.
People with asthma experience symptoms when the airways tighten, inflame, or fill with mucus. Common asthma symptoms include: 1  Coughing, especially at night. 2  Wheezing. 3  Shortness of breath. 4  Chest tightness, pain, or pressure. 
Asthma is a chronic disease that affects the airways of the lungs. During normal breathing, the bands of muscle that surround the airways are relaxed and air moves freely. During an asthma episode or attack, there are three main changes that stop air from moving easily through the airways: Persistent asthma is further described as being mild, moderate, or severe. The severity of asthma is based on how often you have symptoms both during the day and night, as well as by the results of lung function tests and by how well you can perform activities.
-Wheezing=not all people will asthma wheeze, but many do. The wheezing sounds is caused but a high pitched vibration as the steam of air passes through constricted airways-this symptom makes asthma a noticeable symptom. -Coughing=just like the wheezing sound, the symptom of coughing make asthma visible to other people. In most cases, asthma can result from a combination of allergic and no allergic responses. Some triggers include: -allergens such as pollen and mold. -air pollutants. -smoking and second hand smoke. -physical exertions. -cold air. Asthma can develop at any age, even well into the age of 70.
Asthma (AZ-ma) is a chronic (long-term) lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways. Asthma causes recurring periods of wheezing (a whistling sound when you breathe), chest tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing. The coughing often occurs at night or early in the morning. Asthma affects people of all ages, but it most often starts during childhood.
Asthma is a chronic lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways, making it hard to breathe. The disease affects people of all ages, but it most often starts in childhood. People who have asthma may wheeze, cough, feel short of breath, or have chest tightness. Asthma can't be cured, but it can be controlled. Asthma causes recurring periods of wheezing (a whistling sound when you breathe), chest tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing. The coughing often occurs at night or early in the morning. Asthma affects people of all ages, but it most often starts during
Asthma is best described as a chronic disease that involves inflammation of the pulmonary airways and bronchial hyperresponsiveness that results in the clinical expression of a lower airway obstruction that usually is reversible. Microscopically, asthma is characterized by the presence of increased numbers of eosinophils, neutrophils, lymphocytes, and plasma cells in the bronchial tissues, bronchial secretions, and mucus. Initially, there is recruitment of leukocytes from the bloodstream to the airway by activated CD4 T-lymphocytes.
He described asthma as bronchial obstructions and treated it with owl's blood in wine. Moses Maimonides (1135-1204 AD), the rabbi and philosopher who lived in Andalucia (Spain), Morocco and Egypt, was also a physician who practiced medicine in the court of Sultan Saladin of Egypt and Syri. During the 1930s to 1950s, asthma was known as one of the holy seven psychosomatic illnesses. Asthma was described as psychological, with treatment often involving, as its primary component, psychoanalysis and other 'talking cures'. A child's wheeze was seen as a suppressed cry for his or her mother.
A. Asthma is a chronic lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways. Asthma causes recurring periods of wheezing (a whistling sound when you breathe), chest tightness, shortness of breath, and coughing. The coughing often occurs at night or early in the morning. Allergen. A foreign substance, such as mites in house dust or animal dander which, when inhaled, causes the airways to narrow and produces symptoms of asthma. Atopy. A state that makes persons more likely to develop allergic reactions of any type, including the inflammation and airway narrowing typical
Asthma is one of the most common respiratory diseases of the cat. Feline asthma is a disease that is described as involving hyperreactivity, inflammation, and airflow obstruction of the airways. The symptoms will generally spontaneously reverse or respond to treatment. In other words, one of the characteristics of feline asthma is that it comes and goes and is treatable. 