Under the FWS, each employer bases pay on what private industry is paying for comparable levels of work in a given local wage area. Employees are paid the full prevailing rate at step 2 of each grade level. Step 1, the lowest step in the FWS, is 4 percent below the prevailing rate of pay. Steps 3, 4, & 5, are four, eight, & 12 percent above the prevailing rate of pay, respectively. 
A pay grade or salary grade scale is a structured pay format where new employees are placed at a given pay level based on their level of education and work experience related to the position. Purpose. Pay grade schedules have increased in prominence in the early 21st century. The federal government has a system known as the General Schedule in place for all federal jobs. Many private sector employers use them as well.
Most job evaluation systems assign a number of points for a job. It is then simply a matter of constructing a table to assign point ranges to grades. For example: Job Evaluation Points Grade 100-132 1 133-175 2 176-230 3 231-304 4 Again, there are not a lot of rules one must follow. In this case one might split a grade into two smaller grades so that the senior driver could be in a higher grade. The salary range from the top to the bottom of a grade is often narrower for smaller jobs than it is for big jobs. The rationale being that there is more latitude in big jobs.
Information Systems & Technology Positions (Grades 51–60). Annual starting salaries are based on a number of factors, including but not limited to education, experience, and other requirements of the specific position. Salary Ranges. Boston University’s salary structure is based on a grade system. Grades are determined based on a number of factors, including but not limited to education, experience, and other requirements of the specific position. Varying levels of experience and skill sets are represented within each Grade. 
What will make a difference is how you manage the system on an on-going basis. Broad Banding Broad banding isn't really an alternative to grades, rather it simply suggests using very wide grades (e.g. salary ranges +/- 30 to 60% of the salary midpoint). This is meant to be a more flexible system. In this case one might split a grade into two smaller grades so that the senior driver could be in a higher grade. The salary range from the top to the bottom of a grade is often narrower for smaller jobs than it is for big jobs. The rationale being that there is more latitude in big jobs.
United Nations Common System. Pay in the professional and senior positions is made up of two main elements: 1) base salary and 2) post adjustment. UN salaries are based on those of the U.S. Civil Service plus an amount that will vary from 10-20%.
• The salary midpoint of a grade is typically 20-30% higher than the preceding grades salary midpoint. • The maximum of a grade may be higher than the minimum of the next higher grade (but doesn't need to be). In this case one might split a grade into two smaller grades so that the senior driver could be in a higher grade. The salary range from the top to the bottom of a grade is often narrower for smaller jobs than it is for big jobs. The rationale being that there is more latitude in big jobs.
Grades determine the rate of basic pay associated with a specific level of work or range of difficulty, responsibility and qualification requirements. Take a look at the charts below to see what positions meet your qualifications. Pay in the professional and senior positions is made up of two main elements: 1) base salary and 2) post adjustment. UN salaries are based on those of the U.S. Civil Service plus an amount that will vary from 10-20%.
The federal government's General Schedule is a prominent pay grade system. Many federal employees at all levels are paid based on this schedule, called the GS for short. It has 15 pay grade levels and 10 steps at each level to allow for some job level pay variance. Purpose. Pay grade schedules have increased in prominence in the early 21st century. The federal government has a system known as the General Schedule in place for all federal jobs. Many private sector employers use them as well.
The Paterson Job Grading System is method where jobs are evaluated based on predefined criteria, This system is mainly used in South Africa. It analyses decision-making in job tasks, and categorises jobs into six groups that are graded and grouped into two to three sub-grades. 