Definition of SEMINAL VESICLE. : either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract and in the human male secrete a sugar-and protein-containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. 
The accessory glands of the male reproductive system are the seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and the bulbourethral glands. These glands secrete fluids that enter the urethra. 
The seminal vesicles are a pair of glands that are positioned below the urinary bladder and lateral to the vas deferens. Each vesicle consists of a single tube folded and coiled on itself, with occasional diverticula in its wall. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. Both the urethra and vas deferens are derived from the mesonephric ducts, structures that develop from mesoderm.
The seminal vesicles are paired organs of the male genitourinary system. Specifically, they are genital organs. The male genital organs include the penis, testes, excretory genital ducts, ductus deferens, seminal vesicles, prostate, and bulbourethral glands. Of these organs, the seminal vesicles, prostate, and bulbourethral glands are considered accessory glandular structures
There are many functions of the seminal vesicles. The first function of the seminal vesicles is to secrete large amounts of a fluid that turns into semen. Around 65% of the seminal fluid in humans is produced by the seminal vesicles. Next, the seminal fluid is alkaline in nature, that causes the semen to have an alkaline pH. This seminal fluid is produced in the internal organ of the male reproductive system, called the seminal vesicles. The seminal vesicle is also called glandula vesiculosae or vesicular glands. The seminal vesicle function is quite simple, but very important.
The seminal vesicles (Latin: glandulae vesiculosae), vesicular glands, or seminal glands, are a pair of simple tubular glands posteroinferior to the urinary bladder of some male mammals. Seminal vesicles are located within the pelvis. The seminal vesicles develop as one of three structures of the male reproductive system that develops at the junction between the urethra and vas deferens. Both the urethra and vas deferens are derived from the mesonephric ducts, structures that develop from mesoderm.
Introduction. The seminal vesicles are accessory glands of the male reproductive system. They are a pair of contorted or twisted tubes, which are located between the bladder and the rectum. At puberty, the seminal vesicles form sacs and contribute up to 85% of the seminal fluid. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. In male animals, the seminal vesicles are two pouches, each connected to one vas deferens. They produce an additional fluid that combines with the sperm to produce semen. The seminal vesicle is also called seminal gland. In some animals they also store the semen for later release.
Semen is the fluid produced by the male reproductive system to carry sperm. Seminal vesicles play a major role in the production of semen. This article discusses seminal vesicles and their contribution to semen production. Seminal vesicles release up to 60% of the fluid found in semen. The other 40% is produced by the prostate and bulbourethral glands. The fluid produced by seminal vesicles will contain several key components:
Seminal gland. The seminal gland, more commonly referred to as the seminal vesicle, holds the liquid that mixes with sperm to form semen. Semen combines fluid elements from the epididymis, seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and vas deferens. Each body part plays a key role in semen production. The fluids help the sperm swim towards the egg and keep the sperm nourished during the transit process.