A tragic hero is a person of noble birth with heroic or potentially heroic qualities. This person is fated by the Gods or by some supernatural force to doom and destruction or at least to great suffering. But the hero struggles mightly against this fate and this cosmic conflict wins our admiration.
Tragic hero. A tragic hero is the protagonist of a tragedy. Tragic heroes appear in the dramatic works of Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Seneca, Marlowe, Shakespeare, Webster, Marston, Corneille, Racine, Goethe, Schiller, Kleist, Strindberg, Miller and many other writers.
1 Usually of noble birth. 2  Has a tragic flaw that eventually leads to his downfall (known as hamartia). 3  Experiences a reversal of fortune brought about by the hero's tragic flaw (called peripeteia). 4  His actions result in an increase of self-awareness and self-knowledge.
Hamartia – a.k.a. the tragic flaw that eventually leads to his downfall. 3. Peripeteia – a reversal of fortune brought about by the hero’s tragic flaw 4. His actions result in an increase of self-awareness and self-knowledge 5. The audience must feel pity and fear for this character.
Common characteristics of a tragic hero. 1  Usually of noble birth. 2  Has a tragic flaw that eventually leads to his downfall (known as hamartia). 3  Experiences a reversal of fortune brought about by the hero's tragic flaw (called peripeteia). 4  His actions result in an increase of self-awareness and self-knowledge.
An Aristotelian tragic hero must possess specific characteristics, five of which are below[2]: 1) Flaw or error of judgment (hamartia) Note the role of justice and/or revenge in the judgments. 2) A reversal of fortune (peripeteia) brought about because of the hero's error in judgment.
A tragic hero is a person of noble birth with heroic or potentially heroic qualities. Macbeth is a classic example of a Shakespearean tragic hero. He seems fated by the Gods or by some supernatural forces to doom and destruction or at least to great suffering.