Clouds form from water or ice that has evaporated from Earth’s surface, or from plants that give off water and oxygen as a product of photosynthesis. When it evaporates—that is, rises from Earth’s surface into the atmosphere—water is in the form of a gas, water vapor. Water vapor turns into clouds when it cools and condenses—that is, turns back into liquid water or ice. In order to condense, the water vapor must have a solid to glom onto.
It should be close enough to the downspout that you can connect it with the downspout elbow. Mark the downspout one inch below the height of the rain barrel. You'll need to attach the downspout elbow to the downspout so water will pour directly into the barrel. Use a hacksaw to cut the downspout at the mark.
The cold plate causes the moisture in the warm air, which is inside the jar to condense and form water droplets. This is the same thing that happens in the atmosphere. Warm, moist air rises and meets colder air high in the atmosphere. The water vapor condenses and forms precipitation that falls to the ground.
5. Know what to expect. A rain barrel is just a barrel with a hole in the top or side allowing water to enter from the downspout. It can have a filter or closed system to keep out debris and mosquitoes. It always has a spigot and/or drain valve near the bottom to connect a hose to or fill a bucket from.
For most of us, the rain that falls on the roof runs off into the ground or the sewer system. But if you’re motivated to save a little water and re-distribute it on your lawns or plants — or even use it for laundry, dishes or other interior needs — collecting rainwater from your gutters’ downspouts is a no-brainer.
Germs and Other Contaminants. While useful for many things, rainwater is not as pure as you might think, so you can’t assume it’s safe to drink. Rain can wash different types of contaminants into the water you collect (for example, bird poop on your roof could end up in your water barrel or tank).
Most rain water is safe to drink. Actually, rain water is the water supply for much of the world's population. The levels of pollution, pollen, mold, and other contaminants are low -- possibly lower than your public drinking water supply.
Two key steps you can take to improve the quality of rain water are to boil it and filter it. Boiling the water will kill off pathogens. Filtration, such as through a home water filtration pitcher, will remove chemicals, dust, pollen, mold, and other contaminants.
Learn how to make a rain barrel. The water savings from using stored rainwater rather than municipal or well water can be substantial over a period of time. A rain barrel can also help reduce the amount of water that may settle around the foundation of your home.