PET or CAT scans are beneficial to assess specific information, however new technology called the BioMeridian unit has the capacity to non-invasively assess the energy meridians (channels) of the body and determines functionality of organs and tissues of your body accurately. It is enlightening for patients to see their progress on paper. One female patient has been battling rheumatoid arthritis with debilitating changes to her joints over the last 2 years. Her initial BioMeridian check gave her the opportunity to see graphed verification of her improvement.
Natural Health Center PC 8001 Chicago Omaha, NE 402-399-2020 BIOMERIDIAN STRESS TESTING Q: WHAT IS BIOMERIDIAN STRESS TESTING? A: Biomeridian testing is an advanced, noninvasive method used to assess the energy meridians (channels) of the body. 
Biomeridian Testing. Biomeridian testing measures electrical conductivity in meridian points that reflect all of the body’s various systems and tissues. Meridians are the body’s energy pathways on which acupuncture points are found. 
About our High-Tech Testing with BioMeridian. State of the art technology and proven medical science come together in this unique meridian stress assessment tool. It is a safe, non-invasive, and painless system which measures the electrical energy of the body's organ systems.
Biomeridian Testing can give you a clear picture of your internal body, weak, balance or stressed. It also can test which health supplements can help you to improve your health conditions. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Biomeridian Testing. A: Biomeridian testing is a noninvasive method used to assess the energy meridians (channels) of the body, and it can tell you: A: This test would benefit anyone interested in examining and improving the functional energetic status of their own bodies. 
A: Biomeridian testing is a noninvasive method used to assess organ function by an analysis of the energy meridians or channels that correspond to individual organs of the body. 
Biomeridian testing (also called Electro-Dermal Testing) measures the electrical resistance in acupuncture points that exist in multiple pathways over and throughout your body to give us valuable information about your health. Biomeridian testing works by creating a slight potential current between an electrode you hold in your hand and a smaller electrode that we will hold to various acupuncture points.
Biomeridian testing is a Bio-Electrical Impedance Measurement(BIM) that measures the electrical conductivity between specific points on the body. The BIM assessment is a state-of-the-art tool designed to measure 58 different electrical “circuits” in your body related to specific organs and systems. 