As tender legumes, soybeans thrive in warm weather. According to the Soybean Extension Research Project at Iowa State University, the best soil temperature for planting them is 77 degrees Fahrenheit. Soybeans do best in well-drained soil laced with compost. Plant the seeds in full sun, 1 to 2 inches deep and 2 inches apart, eventually thinning the seedlings to every 4 to 6 inches.
Corn requires a soil temperature of 50° F and soybean a soil temperature of 54° F, respectively, to germinate and grow. Temperatures below the optimum can cause seeds to remain dormant and become more vulnerable to diseases, insects, and animal predators. 
The ideal soil temperature for rapid soybean germination and emergence is between 77 to 86ºF. Soil temperatures at a 4-inch depth in Iowa do not reach these levels until mid-to late-June. How-ever, soybean will begin to germinate at soil temperatures around 50ºF, around mid-to late-April. At this temperature it is not unusual that two to three weeks will separate planting and plant emergence. Numerous factors influence the decision on when to plant soybeans. If soil conditions are suitable, soybean should be planted during the last week of April and the first week of May in Iowa. Planting depth should be 1 to 1.5 inches and not deeper than 2 inches.
The ideal soil temperature for soybean germination and emergence is 77ºF. However, soil temperatures at a 2 inch depth in Iowa, do not reach these levels until late May or early June. First of all, soybean responds favorably to early planting dates if soil conditions are ideal for planting. Second, the potential risk of stand reducing, late-spring frost is offset by the opportunity to capture maximum soybean yield potential when early-season growing conditions are favorable.
Soybeans have a harder time sprouting than other beans. Plant your Soybeans outdoors directly in the garden, 14 days after your last frost date, and when night time temperatures are 75 F and soil temperature is 65 F. Use black plastic to warm the soil a few weeks in advance of planting seeds. Soybeans do not like soil that is too moist. Plants can grow 12 to 24 tall
The longer the seed is in the ground at warm soil temperatures before cold temperatures occur, the less likelihood there is of chilling injury. The bottom line is: Plant your soybeans if you think the soil temperatures won’t get cold (less than 40°F) for at least 24 hours. 
The 5-year average for having 50% of the soybeans planted in Ohio is May 22 and Ohio research has shown that a grower can expect 100% of his yield when planting soybeans up to May 10. Rectenwald says if farmers do intend to put the beans in the ground early to plant seeds at the correct depth, 1 to 1 ½ inches deep. 
Many believe that the planting date for soybean is not as important as it is for corn. That is not the case. There is a yield benefit for planting early despite cold soil temperatures that slow plant growth during the seedling phase. The optimum time to plant soybean varies from year to year and from region to region. Numerous factors influence the decision on when to start planting soybea
Both germination and emergence are the most rapid at this temperature. Although you can plant soybeans in soil as cold as 50 degrees, such low temperatures delay seed emergence by up to three weeks. A general guideline is to wait until the soil warms to at least 60 degrees F. Soybeans do best in well-drained soil laced with compost. Plant the seeds in full sun, 1 to 2 inches deep and 2 inches apart, eventually thinning the seedlings to every 4 to 6 inches.