A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed. These rules together make up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is. An example of absolute unmodifiability is found in the German constitution. Articles 1 and 20 protect human dignity, human rights, democracy, rule of law, federal and social state principles, and the people's right of resistance as a last resort against an attempt to abolish the constitutional order.
Within states, a constitution defines the principles upon which the state is based, the procedure in which laws are made and by whom. Some constitutions, especially codified constitutions, also act as limiters of state power, by establishing lines which a state's rulers cannot cross, such as fundamental rights. An example is the constitution of the United States of America. An example of absolute unmodifiability is found in the German constitution. Articles 1 and 20 protect human dignity, human rights, democracy, rule of law, federal and social state principles, and the people's right of resistance as a last resort against an attempt to abolish the constitutional order.
constitutional rights. n. rights given or reserved to the people by the U.S. Constitution, and in particular, the Bill of Rights (first ten amendments).
n. rights given or reserved to the people by the U. S. Constitution, and in particular, the Bill of Rights (first ten amendments). 
Definition. Liberty or right granted under a national constitution. Also called constitutional freedom. 
Full Definition of CONSTITUTIONAL. 1. : relating to, inherent in, or affecting the constitution of body or mind. 2. : of, relating to, or entering into the fundamental makeup of something: essential. 3. 4. 5. 6. : loyal to or supporting an established constitution or form of government. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A constitutional right can be a prerogative or a duty, a power or a restraint of power, recognized and established by a sovereign state or union of states. (August 2008). A constitutional right can be a prerogative or a duty, a power or a restraint of power, recognized and established by a sovereign state or union of states.
The most famous amendments include the Bill of Rights. The Bill of Rights is the first 10 amendments to the Constitution and contains some of the most fundamental individual rights. For example, the First Amendment protects an individual's right to free speech. This doesn't mean that citizens always have the right to free speech. Article VI of the Constitution states that the 'Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof...shall be the Supreme Law of the Land.' This is known as the supremacy clause.