Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) is the bovine (cattle) form of a group of diseases called transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). TSEs are chronic degenerative diseases that affect the central nervous system of the infected animal. They are known to occur in sheep and goats (scrapie), deer and elk (chronic wasting disease), mink (transmissible mink encephalopathy) and domestic cats (feline spongiform encephalopathy). Cattle suffering from BSE are often irritable and can react violently to stimuli that normally do not impact healthy animals.
As BSE is the bovine (beef) form of a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE), there also are several TSEs expressed in humans: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), variant-CJD (vCJD), Gerstmann-Straeussler-Sträussler scheinker (SYNDROME), gss fatal familial (INSOMNIA) ffi And. kuru They are known to occur in sheep and goats (scrapie), deer and elk (chronic wasting disease), mink (transmissible mink encephalopathy) and domestic cats (feline spongiform encephalopathy). Cattle suffering from BSE are often irritable and can react violently to stimuli that normally do not impact healthy animals.
A cow with BSE. Infected animals lose the ability to stand. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), commonly known as mad cow disease, is a fatal neurodegenerative disease (encephalopathy) in cattle that causes a spongy degeneration in the brain and spinal cord. 
Mad cow disease, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), is a transmissible, slowly progressive, degenerative, and fatal disease affecting the central nervous system of adult cattle. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has tested hundreds of thousands of cattle for BSE. 
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), also known as prion diseases, are a group of rare degenerative brain disorders characterized by tiny holes that give the brain a spongy appearance. Research suggests that TSEs are caused by an abnormal version of a protein called a prion (prion is short for proteinaceous infectious particle). Prion proteins occur in both a normal form, which is a harmless protein found in the body's cells, and in an infectious form, which causes disease.
Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are a family of diseases of humans and animals characterized by spongy degeneration of the brain with severe and fatal neurological signs and symptoms. In animals, scrapie is a common disease in sheep and goats. Mink and North American mule deer and elk can contract TSEs. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) is also a TSE, affecting a number of species (cattle, human, cats, some types of animals in 300 settings).
However, BSE has not yet been found in the United States. BSE is one of several transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). Other animal TSEs include scrapie in sheep and goats, and chronic wasting disease (CWD) of deer and elk. Scrapie and CWD are found in the United States. 
Prion diseases or transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are a family of rare progressive neurodegenerative disorders that affect both humans and animals. BSE (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy). BSE also known as Mad Cow Disease is a progressive neurological disorder of cattle that results from infection by an unusual transmissible agent called a prion.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy) is a progressive neurological disorder of cattle that results from infection by an unusual transmissible agent called a prion. The nature of the transmissible agent is not well understood. 
Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) belongs to the unusual group of progressively degenerative neurological diseases known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). 