Like all neotenic Ambystoma species, the axolotl retains its larval features into adulthood. A fully grown axolotl (at age 18–24 months) ranges in length from 150–450mm, although a size close to 230mm is typical and axolotls measuring more than 300mm nose to tail are rarely observed. The name “axolotl” is thought to have originated from the Aztecs, a pre-Columbian civilisation in Mexico in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries. It is derived from two words: atl, meaning “water”, and xolotl meaning “monster”.
Axolotls are members of the Ambystoma tigrinum (Tiger salamander) complex, along with all other Mexican species of Ambystoma. Their habitat is like that of most neotenic species—a high altitude body of water surrounded by a risky terrestrial environment. These conditions are thought to favor neoteny. The axolotl is carnivorous, consuming small prey such as worms, insects, and small fish in the wild. Axolotls locate food by smell, and will snap at any potential meal, sucking the food into their stomachs with vacuum force.
Top facts. 1  The axolotl is an unusual species of salamander which retains its larval features, such as gills, and remains aquatic throughout its life. 2  Most axolotl fail to undergo metamorphosis, but if its habitat dries up this species can metamorphose into an adult form. 1 The axolotl is an unusual species of salamander which retains its larval features, such as gills, and remains aquatic throughout its life.
Classification. Eukarya-The Mexican Axolotl is classified under Eukarya for many reasons, all species under the domain Eukarya posses cells that contain a true nucleus bounded by a nuclear membrane. Organisms that are make up the Eukarya also contain membrane-bound organelles. 
One of the most popular translations of the name “Axolotl” therefore connects this salamander species to the god of deformations and death, Xolotl, while the other most commonly accepted translation is water-dog (from atl for water, and xolotl, which can also mean dog). The name “axolotl” is thought to have originated from the Aztecs, a pre-Columbian civilisation in Mexico in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries. It is derived from two words: atl, meaning “water”, and xolotl meaning “monster”.
Although the axolotl is colloquially known as a  walking fish , it is not a fish, but an amphibian. The species originates from numerous lakes, such as Lake Xochimilco underlying Mexico City. The axolotl is carnivorous, consuming small prey such as worms, insects, and small fish in the wild. Axolotls locate food by smell, and will snap at any potential meal, sucking the food into their stomachs with vacuum force.
The axolotl (/ˈaeksəlɒtəl/ ; ˈæksəlɒtəl. Etymol nāhuatl [āxōlōtl] (aːˈʃoːloːt͡ɬ) singular or [āxōlōmeh] (aːˈʃoːloːmeʔ) plural water), monster also known as A mexican (Salamander ambystoma) mexicanum or A mexican walking, fish is a neotenic, salamander closely related to the tiger. salamander The axolotl is carnivorous, consuming small prey such as worms, insects, and small fish in the wild. Axolotls locate food by smell, and will snap at any potential meal, sucking the food into their stomachs with vacuum force.