How to Make Mini Flatbread Pizzas. Flatbread pizzas are a delicious way to indulge in those cheesy pizza cravings without the unnecessary fat that usually comes with your average pizza. Even better when they're cute little minis! A single-serving flatbread pizza makes for a perfect late-night snack or lunch on the go. 
If you love thin crust pizza, this recipe for flatbread pizza with sundried tomatoes, olives and goat cheese is for you. This flatbread pizza is made with lavash, a type of flatbread that's relatively easy to find in grocery stores. It's usually sold in packages that contain a dozen or so rectangular flatbread pieces. Preparation. Preheat oven to 400 F. If you are using store bought flatbread, brush the flatbread with olive oil and place on cookie sheets. Bake for five minutes, so it gets a little crispy, then remove from the oven and evenly cover with the sundried tomatoes, olives and dollops of the goat cheese. Bake for 5 minutes more, or until the flatbread is crisp around the edges and the cheese is warm and soft
If you don't have a baking stone, bake the pizza right on the baking sheet. Bake for about 5 minutes and then rotate the pizza, removing the parchment from under the pizza as you do so. Bake for another 3 to 5 minutes until the crust is golden-brown and the cheese looks toasty. Remove the pizza from oven and let it cool on a wire rack. Repeat with shaping, topping, and baking the second pizza. Let both pizzas cool for about five minutes before slicing and serving.
This is where my heart is leading me. Then everybody just builds the pizza to their soul’s content. This had a bunch of pesto on the crust as the sauce, then the veggies and cheese on top. Stick ’em back into the oven just long enough for the toppings to bubble up and the flatbread to crisp just a bit. Which, which, which. This is one of those throw-together things you can do when your daughter has a slumber party, your mother-in-law drops by for a glass of wine, or you feel like eating pizza and you don’t want to make pizza dough. Dress ’em up or dress ’em down as required.
Flatbread pizzas make a quick and easy lunch or snack. The average prep time for a pizza is about 15 minutes, including cooking. Making a bunch of different kinds of pizza can be perfect for entertaining, as you can make many flavors in a very short time. Show All Items. Using store-bought flatbread is a quick and easy way to make personal pizzas that taste better than what you can get at most restaurants. It's also easy to innovate-with the small size it's easy to try out new combinations of ingredients without wasting food or waiting hours on pizza dough.
3. Remove from oven and place 3 slices of cheese on top of the flatbread, sprinkle with salt & pepper, then place thinly sliced tomatoes on top and repeat with a sprinkling of salt & pepper. Place back in the oven for another 5 minutes, plus extra 2-3 minutes on broil. As I have later found out, a pizza made with mozzarella, tomatoes, basil & garlic is called Margherita, although a combination of tomato, mozzarella & basil is called caprese. So here’s the easiest flatbread pizza you will ever make.
Cooking Directions. The best case scenario is to have thirty minutes or so to thaw your frozen American Flatbread before you cook it. If you don’t have that much time, just take your American Flatbread out of the freezer, remove it from the box, and let your flatbread rest on the kitchen counter or some other flat […]. 
Leave the oven on after you remove the pan of vegetables. Par-bake the flatbread crust without toppings for about 5 minutes. Par-baking helps crisp the crust, which is vital for thin pizza. Sprinkle shredded mozzarella or another grated, shredded or crumbled cheese on the par-baked crust. Sprinkle thin slices of cooked Italian sausage or other pre-cooked meat on top of the cheese. Add the roasted vegetables to the pizza. Season the flatbread with fresh oregano or other herbs, if desired. Cook the flatbread pizza in a 450 degree F oven until the crust is golden brown, approximately 10 minutes. Cut larger flatbread pizzas into easy-to-handle squares. Serve pizza immediately while it's still ho