Cole /cole/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Cole) is pronounced kohl. It is of Middle English and Old French origin, and the meaning of Cole is swarthy, coal-black, charcoal. Surname derived from a medieval given name. Also used as a short form of Nicholas and names beginning with Cole-. As a given name, it is linked with the songwriter-composer Cole Porter (20th century). Outlaw Cole Younger
Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Cole and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Cole is fascinating, learn more about it. 
COLE: Gender: Male Meaning: From the name NICHOLAS Origin: Celtic/Gaelic Answer Nicholas is greek and means Victory of the People. 
Greek Meaning: The name Cole is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Cole is: People's victory. American Meaning: The name Cole is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cole is: People's victory. English Meaning: The name Cole is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cole is: Of a triumphant people; young boy
Cole is a variant of the name Colby (English). Cole is also a variant (English) of the name Colin (English, Scottish, and French). Cole is also a short form (English) of the name Colman (English and Irish). Cole is also a variant of the name Colter (English). Cole is also a variant of the name Colton (English). Cole is also a short form (English) of the name Nicholas (English and French). Cole has 19 variants
Cole /koʊl/ is a surname of English origin, and is much less frequently a given name. It is of Middle English origin, and its meaning is swarthy, coal-black, charcoal. The Cole family originated in Cornwall, South West England. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Randolphi Cole, appearing in the Winton Rolls of Hampshire in 1148. It is also an Americanized spelling of the German name 'Kohl', and of the Scottish and Irish name 'McCool'
The name Cole is of English origin, and it means Victory of the People . It's a name commonly given to boys. 
Cole is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Cole. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 116 in baby name popularity for boys with 3404 occurrences. It ranked 11080 in popular baby names for girls with 9 occurrences. View the Cole Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Cole has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Cole to other names. Cole is a diminutive (nickname) of Nicholas. Variants of the name Cole include Kole. Some famous bearers of this name include: Cole Porter, Cole Younger
Origin of the name Cole: Transferred use of the surname derived from the Old English col (coal). It originated as a nickname for someone who was coal-black, swarthy, or darkly-complexioned. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Cole : | Edit. From an Old English appellation meaning coal, referring to someone with dark hair or complexion; also a nickname for Nicholas.