Sonia. Sonia means wise!!! I know that, cuz sonia is my name! It means wisdom and you cant make nicknames out of SONIA very well, i know that cause my name is sonia! it means hard to argue with!!!!!!!!!!!!!!and loyal. in punjabi Sonia means sweetheart. Smart, intelligent, pretty, slick and graceful.
Sonya-Meaning of Sonya. Tweet. Variant forms inherit the origin and meaning of Sonya. Sonny (English pet form), Sonia (Armenian, English, and Russian variant spelling), and Sonja (Dutch, English, Russian, Scandinavian, Slavic, and German variant spelling) are other forms of Sonya. 
Sonia /so-nia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SOHN-yah. It is of English origin. Variant of Sophia (Greek) wisdom. Queen of Norway Sonja; skater/actress Sonja Henie; painter Sonia Delaunay. Kreatif forms: Sania, Sinia, Sunnia. How popular is Sonia? Sonia is a very popular first name for females (#284 out of 4276, Top 7%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#51024 out of 150436, Top 34%).
Sonya is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced So-ny-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1436 in baby name popularity for girls with 157 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Sonya Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sonya has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sonya to other names. Sonya is a diminutive (nickname) of Sofya. Variants of the name Sonya include Sonia
it means athletic and wise and pretty andsmart. Sonia is such a rare name and with all the stupid people in the world no wonder there is only a few of us left cause we r smart and gracefull. It means wisdom and you cant make nicknames out of SONIA very well, i know that cause my name is sonia! it means hard to argue with!!!!!!!!!!!!!!and loyal. in punjabi Sonia means sweetheart. Smart, intelligent, pretty, slick and graceful.
Sonya is a very popular first name for women (#339 out of 4276, Top 8%) but a rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Sonya for girls. 
Sonya Name Meaning. The meaning of Sonya is “Wisdom-dim. of Sophia”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. 