An employee who is new to a job in a particular pay grade range starts at pay step one of the pay grade. If he or she continues to work in the same role, the pay grade allows upward movement in salary, usually one pay step per year of service within the pay grade assigned to that job. A pay raise, once an employee reaches the top of their pay grade is dependent on cost of living allowances or increases. The number of pay steps encourages employees to feel as if their career success and compensation are increasing during the time they perform the job-even if they are performing the same job.
Overlaps in the amount of salary available at each pay step of the pay grade are common to pay grades. For example, a beginning worker's job at pay grade 1 might involve 10-15 pay steps from $18,000 to $24,000. A pay raise, once an employee reaches the top of their pay grade is dependent on cost of living allowances or increases. The number of pay steps encourages employees to feel as if their career success and compensation are increasing during the time they perform the job-even if they are performing the same job.
Average Grade 5 Salaries. The average salary for grade 5 jobs is $54,000. Average grade 5 salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term grade 5 anywhere in the job listing
A pay grade is a unit in systems of monetary compensation for employment. It is commonly used in public service, both civil and military, but also for companies of the private sector. Pay grades facilitate the employment process by providing a fixed framework of salary ranges, as opposed to a free negotiation. Typically, pay grades encompass two dimensions: a vertical range where each level corresponds to the responsibility of, and requirements needed for a certain position; and a horizontal range within this scale to allow for monetary incentives rewarding the employee 's quality of performance or length of service.
Pay Structure. Use of a salary grade schedule is common in companies that strive to structure employee compensation as equitably as possible based on a person's position and years of experience. The other popular method for pay is what is called marketing pricing. Salary Grade Purpose. In the article The Basics of Salary Grades, David Creelman, CEO of Creelman Research, notes that salary grade pay schedules evolved to meet requirements of affirmative action for organizations that had to prove equitable hiring practices that promote diversity.
Each stated salary grade amount dictates the lowest pay for an employee in that range. However, employees can make a salary between two grade points. Creelman notes that, in general, each salary grade is 20 to 30 percent higher than the previous one; however, this varies by industry and job. Salary Grade Purpose. In the article The Basics of Salary Grades, David Creelman, CEO of Creelman Research, notes that salary grade pay schedules evolved to meet requirements of affirmative action for organizations that had to prove equitable hiring practices that promote diversity.
Salary grades at Harvard. Every staff position has a grade level. Local human resources offices determine the grade of each position based on the required knowledge, skills and abilities, Harvard benchmarks, and the complexity and scope relative to other University positions. Salary ranges within each pay grade factor in specific qualifications, skills, experience, equity in comparison to similar positions, and the external market. The salary ranges in the table below reflect base salaries paid for all positions at a given grade across the University.
Annual starting salaries are based on a number of factors, including but not limited to education, experience, and other requirements of the specific position. Salary Ranges. Boston University’s salary structure is based on a grade system. Grades are determined based on a number of factors, including but not limited to education, experience, and other requirements of the specific position. Varying levels of experience and skill sets are represented within each Grade. 
A pay grade or salary grade scale is a structured pay format where new employees are placed at a given pay level based on their level of education and work experience related to the position. The federal government's General Schedule is a prominent pay grade system. Many federal employees at all levels are paid based on this schedule, called the GS for short. It has 15 pay grade levels and 10 steps at each level to allow for some job level pay variance.