In most vertebrates, the stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine. It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called proteases and gastric acid to aid in food digestion, through smooth muscular contractions before sending partially digested food (chyme) to the small intestines. The stomach lies between the esophagus and the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine). It is in the left upper part of the abdominal cavity. The top of the stomach lies against the diaphragm. Lying behind the stomach is the pancrea
Stomach. The stomach is a muscular, J-shaped organ in the abdomen. Part of the digestive system, the stomach stores and digests food through gastric juices and a specialized churning action created by folds on its inside. The stomach is located in the upper-left area of the abdomen below the liver and next to the spleen. It’s main function is store and breakdown foods and liquids that we consume before those contents travel to other organs to be further digested. When the stomach is empty, the inside has small folds called ruga
The stomach is a rounded, hollow organ located just inferior to the diaphragm in the left part of the abdominal cavity. Located between the esophagus and the duodenum, the stomach is a roughly crescent-shaped enlargement of the gastrointestinal tract. The stomach produces and secretes several important substances to control the digestion of food. Each of these substances is produced by exocrine or endocrine cells found in the mucosa. 1  The main exocrine product of the stomach is gastric juice – a mixture of mucus, hydrochloric acid, and digestive enzymes.
Overview. People often refer to the entire abdominal region as “the stomach.” In actuality, the stomach is an organ located in the upper left part of your abdomen. It is the first intra-abdominal part of your digestive tract. Your stomach contains several muscles, and can change shape as you eat or change posture. 
The stomach is a muscular, hollow, dilated part of the digestive system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in many animals, including vertebrates, echinoderms, insects (mid-gut), and molluscs. The stomach lies between the esophagus and the duodenum (the first part of the small intestine). It is in the left upper part of the abdominal cavity. The top of the stomach lies against the diaphragm. Lying behind the stomach is the pancrea
What is the stomach. The stomach is a hollow organ in the upper abdomen, under the ribs. It's part of the digestive system. Food moves from the mouth through the esophagus to the stomach. In the stomach, the food becomes liquid. 
All rights reserved. The stomach is a muscular organ located on the left side of the upper abdomen. The stomach receives food from the esophagus. As food reaches the end of the esophagus, it enters the stomach through a muscular valve called the lower esophageal sphincter. The stomach secretes acid and enzymes that digest food. Ridges of muscle tissue called rugae line the stomach. The stomach muscles contract periodically, churning food to enhance digestion. The pyloric sphincter is a muscular valve that opens to allow food to pass from the stomach to the small intestine.
1 Body (corpus): The main part of the stomach, between the upper and lower parts. 2  Antrum: The lower portion (near the intestine), where the food is mixed with gastric juice. 3  Pylorus: The last part of the stomach, which acts as a valve to control emptying of the stomach contents into the small intestine. 