Alprazolam (Xanax) is a drug that relieves anxiety within about half an hour of oral intake. Most people who use Xanax say that a single dose kicks in 15- 30 minutes and its anti-anxiety effects last for a few hours. Taking it with food does not seem to affect its effects. Generally, a 0.25 mg dose is enough, but some variations among individuals may occur.
If you are taking a lower dose with no tolerance 15 min max. Basicially its a fast acting anxiety med but the differance between xanax and other benzos is xanax is awesome for a fast acting relief of a panick attack, but doesnt last long and without tolerance could knock you out for a few good hours. 
RE: How does Xanax work? My doctor prescribed me .25mg xanax pills, Im 23 fem. How exactly does it work, (what does it do to your brain) & how long do the effects of the pills last, is it best for short term treatment of an attack or does it prevent an attack throughtout the day? I had generalized stress/ anxiety/... Dopamine is the stimulant of the brain. Too much dopamine can cause anxiety and panic attacks. Because Xanax is fact acting and short-lived, people can not use it as a long term treatment for anxiety and is best used to treat acute symptoms of anxiety.
Alprazolam. Alprazolam is a fast-acting, short-term drug that belongs to the benzodiazepine class of drugs. It is sold under the names Xanax, Xanor and Niravam. Xanax is used to treat anxiety, from mild cases to full-blown panic attacks. Alprazolam (Xanax) is a type of benzodiazepine. Benzodiazepines bind to a portion of the GABA and modulate it. They also work to stifle the inhibitory receptor in the brain. In short, Xanax works by both lowering inhibitions, and attaching itself to the GABAs and increasing their tranquilizing abilities.
A. Alprazolam (Xanax) is an anxiety-relieving medicine that starts to work within about an hour after taking the pill. The level of drug reaches a peak in the bloodstream after one to two hours, and its felt effects last on average about 5 hours. However, Xanax remains in the bloodstream long after its anti-anxiety effects have worn off. Xanax’s average half-life is 11 hours. This means that it takes an average of 11 hours for the body to eliminate half the Xanax dose. In older or obese people, or those with liver disease, Xanax’s half-life is longer, as long as 40 hours. It takes several half-lives to eliminate a drug completely
How fast does Xanax work. Xanax reaches its peak level in the blood in 1-2 hours. At that point, Xanax has taken full effect. Sometimes people will crush and snort the powder from the tablets to try to get more immediate effects, but this is dangerous. Share. 1. 1. 15. Xanax (alprazolam) is a benzodiazepine prescription drug that’s used to treat anxiety disorders and panic attacks. How much Xanax is safe is between 0.75 – 1.5 mg throughout the day. Here we review how Xanax affects the body and brain, when Xanax starts to act and if you can improve on Xanax effect
Get help from a doctor now ›. Xanax fast action: Xanax, klonopin, valium, serax, Librium are part of what is called the class of benzodiazepines. Some are fast acting and short acting as xanax= it works within 15mn and its effects on last a few hours. Valium is take hours to work and works for days. Addicts prefer fast acting meds (they cannot wait for hours for a med to work) but all benzos can be addictive. Never use any benzo more than 3mo.