A: Although pregnancy is generally 40 weeks long, babies born at 37 weeks are considered full-term (at that point, they're developed enough that they shouldn't have any age-related health issues). 
Definition. A premature birth is a birth that takes place more than three weeks before the baby is due. In other words, a premature birth is one that occurs before the start of the 37th week of pregnancy. Normally, a pregnancy usually lasts about 40 weeks. Premature birth gives the baby less time to develop in the womb. Premature babies, especially those born earliest, often have complicated medical problems
Definition. A premature baby is one born before 37 weeks of gestation time. If a woman goes into labor before 37 weeks, it is referred to as preterm labor. In a typical pregnancy, delivery between 37 and 42 weeks is considered a full term, and anything after 42 weeks gestation is a post-term pregnancy.
Preterm birth, also known as premature birth, is the birth of a baby at less than 37 weeks gestational age. These babies are known as preemies or premmies. Symptoms of preterm labor include uterine contractions which occur more often than every ten minutes or the leaking of fluid from the vagina. In humans the usual definition of preterm birth is birth before a gestational age of 37 complete weeks. In the normal human fetus, several organ systems mature between 34 and 37 weeks, and the fetus reaches adequate maturity by the end of this period.
Pregnancy normally lasts about 40 weeks. A baby born 3 or more weeks early is premature. Babies who are born closer to their due dates tend to have fewer problems than babies born earlier. But even those who are born late preterm (closer to 37 weeks) are at risk for problems. Doctors and nurses often call premature babies preemies.. 
Preemies in the NICU: A visual tour Tour a hospital NICU and see how preemies are cared for. Preemies in the NICU: A visual tour. Tour a hospital NICU and see how preemies are cared for. If you deliver your baby before 37 weeks, it's called a preterm birth and your baby is considered premature. Going into preterm labor does not mean you'll have a premature baby. Up to half of the women who experience preterm labor eventually deliver at 37 weeks or later. About a quarter of preterm births are planned.
The majority of premature babies are born between 34 and 37 weeks. If these late preterm infants have no other health problems, they generally do significantly better than those born earlier, though they still face a higher risk of problems than babies who are born later in pregnancy. Going into preterm labor does not mean you'll have a premature baby. Up to half of the women who experience preterm labor eventually deliver at 37 weeks or later. About a quarter of preterm births are planned.
Premature baby. The normal length for a pregnancy is between 37 and 42 weeks. If a baby is born before the 37th week, or 259 days of gestation, the baby will be considered a premature baby.