In addition, according to USDA's Nutrition Facts data, a 100-gram portion of cooked green lima beans contains 6.2 micrograms of vitamin K, which corresponds to about 8% of the daily value for this bone health boosting vitamin. Mature lima beans, by contrast, provide only 2 micrograms of vitamin K per 100 grams. White and green lima beans have very similar nutrient profiles (see Nutrient Facts Charts at the end of this article); however, there are also a couple of interesting differences between the immature and mature seeds of the Phaseolus lunatus (lima) plant.
Lima as well as thin butter beans are very rich sources of many B-complex vitamins, especially vitamin-B6 (pyridoxine), thiamin (vitamin B-1), pantothenic acid, riboflavin, and niacin. Most of these vitamins functions as co-enzymes in carbohydrate, protein, and fat metabolism. 100 g beans carry 338 calories and provide 21.46 g or 38% of daily recommended intake of protein. In addition, lima are rich source of antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, and plant sterols. They, fresh or dried, contain substantial amounts of dietary fiber (50% per100g RDA).
The Basics. A fourth-cup serving of baby lima beans—about 45 grams of beans—has about 170 calories, including 5 calories from fat. You'll get 32 grams of carbohydrates, including 10 grams of dietary fiber, and 10 grams of fiber from that serving of baby limas. A cup of dried lima beans on a burlap sack. Photo Credit loooby/iStock/Getty Images. Lima beans, also known as butter beans or chad beans, are named for the capital of Peru, where they've been cultivated for more than 6,000 years.
In terms of folate content, however, mature lima beans seem to beat their immature counterparts: A 100-gram serving of mature beans provides a whopping 21% of the daily value for folate, while an equal-sized serving of green lima beans supplies only 6%. White and green lima beans have very similar nutrient profiles (see Nutrient Facts Charts at the end of this article); however, there are also a couple of interesting differences between the immature and mature seeds of the Phaseolus lunatus (lima) plant.
Lima beans are important sources of plant proteins. 100 g beans carry 338 calories and provide 21.46 g or 38% of daily recommended intake of protein. In addition, lima are rich source of antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, and plant sterols. They, fresh or dried, contain substantial amounts of dietary fiber (50% per100g RDA).
Protein and Fiber. A 1/2-cup serving of canned lima beans supplies 5 grams of protein toward your daily goal of 46 grams for women and 56 grams for men. Protein is essential in the formation and regeneration of cells, tissues and muscles. It also supplies your body with energy. 
For example, a 100-gram serving of cooked green lima beans provides about 6% of the daily value (DV) for vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids) and 17% of the daily value for vitamin C. Mature lima beans, by contrast, do not provide significant amounts of carotenoids or vitamin C. White and green lima beans have very similar nutrient profiles (see Nutrient Facts Charts at the end of this article); however, there are also a couple of interesting differences between the immature and mature seeds of the Phaseolus lunatus (lima) plant.
Like most beans, lima beans are a good source of several different nutrients. A fourth-cup serving of baby lima beans—about 45 grams of beans—has about 170 calories, including 5 calories from fat. You'll get 32 grams of carbohydrates, including 10 grams of dietary fiber, and 10 grams of fiber from that serving of baby limas. A cup of dried lima beans on a burlap sack. Photo Credit loooby/iStock/Getty Images. Lima beans, also known as butter beans or chad beans, are named for the capital of Peru, where they've been cultivated for more than 6,000 years.
Nutrition. Lima beans, also known as butter beans, are in the legume family. This healthy bean is great in a variety of dishes, such as succotash. Lima beans also have excellent nutrition and health benefits that your body needs. You’ll find these tasty beans at the grocery store, farmer’s market and produce stand. They come in cans or frozen bags in a variety of product sizes. Cholesterol. Lima beans are naturally low in cholesterol. In fact, they have 0g of cholesterol. High cholesterol is a risk factor for heart disease, heart attacks and stroke. Healthy foods, such as lima beans, help lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
Lima beans nutrition facts. Lima beans are large, flat, off-white, kidney-shaped edible seeds in the bean family. They usually eaten shelled for their delicious beans just as in fava beans. In line with other major beans, lima too is one of the ancient cultivated crops. 100 g beans carry 338 calories and provide 21.46 g or 38% of daily recommended intake of protein. In addition, lima are rich source of antioxidants, vitamins, minerals, and plant sterols. They, fresh or dried, contain substantial amounts of dietary fiber (50% per100g RDA).