BATT Genealogy. WikiTree is a community of genealogists growing The Free Family Tree. This is our current BATT index. If you agree with our 9-Point Honor Code we'd love your help filling in the blanks and fixing mistakes. 
The Olde English Bata is though to derive from the word batt, cudgel, used as a byname for a stout, thickset man. The modern surname from either source can also be found as Battson, Battison, Batts and Batson. Martha, daughter of Richard and Sarah Battson was christened in January 1642 in London. One Thomas Bateson is registered in the Poll Tax Records, in the West Riding of Yorkshire. Bartholomew is derived from the Aramaic patronymic bartalmay, which means having many furrows and therefore rich in land, and was a very popular personal name in the Middle Ages, partly due to the fame of St. Bartholomew, the patron saint of tanners, vintners and butlers.
You can find out where the majority of the Batt families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can see how Batt families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. 1  England (83). 2  Germany (58).
This unsual and interesting name has three possible origns, the first of which is a patronymic form of the medieval personal name Batte, meaning son of Batte, itself a pet form of Bartholomew which means rich in land. The second origin also patronymic is from the Olde English (Anglo\Saxon) personal name Bata, used as a nickname for a stout, thickset person from the word batt, a cudgel.
Anne Batts was christened on the 25th December 1705 at St. Dunstans', Stepney, in London. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Bat, which was dated circa 1170, Early London Personal Names, Ekwall, during the reign of King Henry II, The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. The second origin also patronymic is from the Olde English (Anglo\Saxon) personal name Bata, used as a nickname for a stout, thickset person from the word batt, a cudgel.
This unusual name is one of the patronymic forms of the medieval English personal name Batt, and means son of Batt or Bate, itself either a pet form of Bartholomew or from an olde English pre 7th Century personal name Bata. Bartholomew is derived from the Aramaic patronymic bartalmay, which means having many furrows and therefore rich in land, and was a very popular personal name in the Middle Ages, partly due to the fame of St. Bartholomew, the patron saint of tanners, vintners and butlers.
Web: Free Batt results at FamilySearch.org. Web: Batt family tree results from MyHeritage. Web: Social Security Death Index (1937 - Current). Vital records are essential for family history research because they were typically created at or near the time of the event, making the record more reliable. Origins of the Batt Surname. While some countries have limited historical records for last name assignments, you are most likely to only find general guidance on the origin and meaning of the Batt surname. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country. According to British Family Names: Their Origin and Meaning [page 90], the surname BATT is defined as See Bathy. Web: Countries of Origin for the Batt last nam
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Batts families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.