How many years it takes to complete an accounting degree depends on the level of your degree. While an associate's degree is usually spread over two years, a bachelor's degree needs four years of coursework. A master's degree, on the other hand, can take anywhere between 18 to 24 months for completion. Confidence votes 151. You could get it done in 4 years, but if you want to become a Certified Public Accountant, you have to take a pretty hard test (like the bar exam for accountants) and there is a period of time where you have to learn on the job before you get licensed.
Report Abuse. Usually you would need to do a 4 year Commerce degree in Accounting, and then do the Professional exams to be certified as a chartered accountant. The professional exams can take from 1 to 5 years. I think a certain number of years experience is also required. I'm a chartered accountant and I joined a firm of accountants straight from university and it was a 3 year hard slog with tough exams to get to the qualification. It is possible to do it without a degree by taking a year's foundation course (AAT or something similar) before embraking on the ACA training.
At best, I'd say the minimum amount of time would be two years, on top of your accounting degree. As for a maximum, I believe that each program does have a limit on how long you can take to complete the courses before they ask you to go away and give up. I think that limit is 10 years. Confidence votes 151. You could get it done in 4 years, but if you want to become a Certified Public Accountant, you have to take a pretty hard test (like the bar exam for accountants) and there is a period of time where you have to learn on the job before you get licensed.
Report Abuse. It will take 4 years in an undergraduate university or college to get a bachelors degree, which you will need regardless. To get a masters of accounting would be another two or three years depending on your graduate program. To become an accountant, you only need to do a four-year degree at least. There is quite a bit more that you have to do to become a Certifies Public Accountant (CPA). Joy M · 9 years ago.
You must get 70% and most people do not pass the first time. Finally, you must work/intern for appoximately two years at an accounting firm-this is sort of an apprenticeship. There are many fields in accounting. You can be a general accountant, auditor, tax accountant, or a controller. To become an accountant, you only need to do a four-year degree at least. There is quite a bit more that you have to do to become a Certifies Public Accountant (CPA). Joy M · 9 years ago.
After passing the Uniform CPA Exam, public accountants can expect a salary increase. Studying to sit the Uniform CPA Exam and become a CPA can be a challenge, especially for candidates with the minimum of two years of experience. Each individual will have a different answer to how long it takes to become a CPA. The answer varies slightly from state to state, but in most jurisdictions, a Certified Public Accountant must have two years of experience in public accounting and earn at least 150 hours of college credit before taking the Uniform CPA Exam.
To achieve an Associate Degree, usually it takes 2 years, and 4 years for a Bachelor Degree. It also depends on how many credits you take every semester. To become an accountant, you only need to do a four-year degree at least. There is quite a bit more that you have to do to become a Certifies Public Accountant (CPA). Joy M · 9 years ago.
So how long does it take to become an accountant? Well, you are looking at a time of around 3 years if you carry out work experience whilst at college, but the norm seems to be around 4-5 years. In order to take the Certified Public Accountant Exam, otherwise known as the CPA you will need to take a bachelor’s degree in accounting, although some states do allow you to take it in a similar business field, as long as accounting is included in the course.