Mantle. The next layer beneath the crust is called the mantle. It extends to a depth of approximately 1,800 miles and is made of a thick solid rocky substance that represents about 85% of the total weight and mass of the Earth. The first 50 miles of the mantle are believed to consist of very hard rigid rock.
The Photosphere. The layer of the Sun that we can see from Earth is called the photosphere. Below the photosphere, the Sun becomes opaque to visible light, and astronomers have to use other methods to probe its interior. 
1 The middle layer is the choroid. 2  The front of the choroid is the colored part of the eye called the iris. 3  In the center of the iris is a circular hole or opening called the pupil. 4  The inner layer is the retina, which lines the back two-thirds of the eyeball. 1 The slight bulge in the sclera at the front of the eye is a clear, thin, dome-shaped tissue called the cornea. 2  See a picture of the cornea. 3  The middle layer is the choroid. 4  The front of the choroid is the colored part of the eye called the iris. 5
1 The front of the choroid is the colored part of the eye called the iris. 2  In the center of the iris is a circular hole or opening called the pupil. 3  The inner layer is the retina, which lines the back two-thirds of the eyeball. 1 The slight bulge in the sclera at the front of the eye is a clear, thin, dome-shaped tissue called the cornea. 2  See a picture of the cornea. 3  The middle layer is the choroid. 4  The front of the choroid is the colored part of the eye called the iris. 5
The earth is made up of layers (crust, mantle, outer core, and inner core). Each one has a unique make-up to it. Crust. This is the outer layer of the Earth about 10 miles or so thick. Mostly made up of rock and loose material. The next layer beneath the crust is called the mantle. It extends to a depth of approximately 1,800 miles and is made of a thick solid rocky substance that represents about 85% of the total weight and mass of the Earth. The first 50 miles of the mantle are believed to consist of very hard rigid rock.
The crust and the upper layer of the mantle together make up a zone of rigid, brittle rock called the Lithosphere. The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistancy called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Mantle. The mantle is the layer located directly under the sima. It is the largest layer of the Earth, 1800 miles thick. The mantle is composed of very hot, dense rock. This layer of rock even flows like asphalt under a heavy weight
Earth's middle layer is called the mantle. It lies between the crust and the outer core. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 2  They are responsible for the birth of planets and the evolution of cells to complex organisms. The middle or centre of the whole Earth is the core. However the middle of the layers from the surface to the centre of the Earth is known as
The Outer Eye When looking at the outside of the eye, several structures are readily available for viewing. The white part of the eye is a tough outer layer called the sclera. The sclera protects the inside of the eye and helps the eye keep its structure. The colored part of the eye is called the iris. This portion of the eye is what controls the amount of light that is let into the inner eye. When we look at a cross section of the eye, we can see the interior structures of the eye. The transparent portion at the very front of the eye is called the cornea. The cornea is a thin layer of cells that allows light to pass through the front
1 See a picture of the cornea. 2  The middle layer is the choroid. 3  The front of the choroid is the colored part of the eye called the iris. 4  In the center of the iris is a circular hole or opening called the pupil. 1 The slight bulge in the sclera at the front of the eye is a clear, thin, dome-shaped tissue called the cornea. 2  See a picture of the cornea. 3  The middle layer is the choroid. 4  The front of the choroid is the colored part of the eye called the iris. 5
Because of this the continents ride on the denser oceanic plates. The crust and the upper layer of the mantle together make up a zone of rigid, brittle rock called the Lithosphere. The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistancy called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Mantle. The mantle is the layer located directly under the sima. It is the largest layer of the Earth, 1800 miles thick. The mantle is composed of very hot, dense rock. This layer of rock even flows like asphalt under a heavy weight. 