(February 2009). A loss payee clause (or loss payable clause) is a clause in a contract of insurance which provides that in the event of payment being made under the policy in relation to the insured risk, payment will be made to a third party rather than to the insured beneficiary of the policy. 
Lender's Loss Payable. Lender's Loss Payable-sounds similar but oh so different! Like Loss Payee being designated Lender's Loss Payable also requires a policy endorsement, which requires diligence by the insurance agent and by the insurance company as noted above. 
DEFINITION of 'Loss Payee'. The party to whom the claim from a loss is to be paid. Loss payee can mean several different things; in the insurance industry, the insured or the party entitled to payment is the loss payee. The insured can expect reimbursement from the insurance carrier in the event of a loss. 
Designation. The loss payee will be named as such on the insurance policy taken out by the borrower or debtor. A loss payee will have certain rights pertaining to the insurance policy. Insurance Claim Checks. A check for an insurance claim can be payable to the lienholder or loss payee along with the debtor. Both must endorse the check, which is then presented to the shop or contractor handling the repairs on the collateral.
Definition. The person designated on an insurance policy as the one to be paid in case the property is damaged or destroyed. A secured lender often requires a borrower to carry adequate insurance on property used as security, and requires the borrower to name the lender as the loss payee. 
Loss-Payable Clause Law & Legal Definition. Loss-payable clause refers to an insurance policy provision that authorizes the payment of proceeds to someone other than the named insured. Under loss-payable clause, payment is made to someone who has a security interest in the insured property. 
Loss Payee. The person or company to whom an insurance company makes a payment should the insured event occur. For example, in a health insurance policy, the loss payee will likely be the policyholder if he/she becomes ill. In a life insurance policy, the loss payee is likely the policyholder's survivors. 
5. Cancel. Loss payee is a term that essentially refers to collateral in the world of insurance. Get a definition of loss payee with insurance with help from a full-time insurance professional in this free video clip. Part of the Video Series: Basic Insurance Advice.
Insurance Requirements. Insurance is a crucial requirement on a mortgage loan. When you get approved, contact your insurance company and add the lender as loss payee. This typically appears as the lender's name and address on the policy. Instruct the insurance company to forward the policy declaration page to the lender as proof of insurance. 