Enclosed Screened Patio Rooms. When you want to have the breeze but want the bugs to stay out then our patio screen rooms delivers the best of both worlds. Relax in comfort knowing you just made an improvement to your existing house or vacation home that will return hours of ease and increased property value.
This is one of the cheapest ways to enclose a patio. They are built with metal frames that hold the canvas stretched above the patio. The sides are typically open with optional canvas or screen panels to provide shelter and privacy. The portable awning-style frames fold up, making them more versatile.
Getting creative with your living space can run from a simple enclosed porch to an opulent sunroom. Making improvements on your home is one way to increase the value of your property and make it a more valuable investment for the future.
Porch enclosures turn your porch into a sun room, screen porch, or 3-season room and can be done without breaking the bank. Mary and I love enclosed porches because they allow you to enjoy the outdoors in more comfort.
1 In addition, prefabricated enclosed patios can cost $10,000 to $30,000. 2  This will generally include everything ranging from materials to the labor. 3  PreviewConstruction.com states that the average cost of enclosing a patio can be around $5,000 to $15,000.
The first thing that you have to consider when determining how to screen in a patio, deck or porch, is the style and design you would like for the area. Screened Porch Ideas Before planning a screened in porch, consider what type of room you would like to create. Outdoor rooms come in all shapes and sizes.
Shades. If privacy is the reason you want your patio enclosed, long window shades, such as those made from bamboo, are a good option. Mount the shades side by side along the top of the open sides of the patio, so that when they are extended they cover the sides, enclosing the patio. Keep your blinds up when weather is rough to maintain them. The blinds will keep out the sun and create a more private area for relaxing on your patio.
1 PreviewConstruction.com states that the average cost of enclosing a patio can be around $5,000 to $15,000. 2  This estimation includes the materials and the labor only. 3  A suggested setup by Screen-House.com says the costs can be between $7,000 and $15,000 or beyond.