The Presa Canario, or Canary Dog, was historically a guardian dog who excelled at driving cattle. The breed originated on the Canary Islands, which are a Spanish archipelago prone to volcanic activity located about 100 miles northwest of Africa. The Presa Canario was developed by crossing native dogs with Bulldogs and Mastiffs that were brought in from Britain during the 19th century.
The Perro de Presa Canario is a mastiff breed from the Canary Islands. He is a complex, powerful dog with special needs when it comes to ownership. The Presa is used as a “catch dog,” driving cattle and hogs and running off or killing strange dogs. The History of the Perro de Presa Canario. The Presa Canario is thought to date to the 15 th and 16 th centuries, perhaps descended from mastiff-type dogs brought to the Canary Islands by Spanish conquistadores.
The Presa Canario, or Canary Dog, was historically a guardian and cattle driving dog. The breed originated on the Canary Islands, a group of Spanish volcanic islands that sit about 100 miles northwest of Africa. 
The Perro de Presa Canario is also known as the Canary Dog of Prey because he comes from the Canary Islands, located in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Africa. The Presa Canario is not an appropriate choice for an inexperienced dog owner. The History of the Perro de Presa Canario. The Presa Canario is thought to date to the 15 th and 16 th centuries, perhaps descended from mastiff-type dogs brought to the Canary Islands by Spanish conquistadores.
Origin and History: Perro de Presa Canario, better known as the Canary Island fighting dog, was originally developed in the Spanish Canary Islands in the mid- 1800's. The breed was developed from a cross between indigenous herding dogs on that island and the English mastiff and English bulldog. Three-year old Bane, a reproductively intact male, weighed about 125 pounds and had been with Noel and Knoller in their small San Francisco apartment for about 4 months. Pictured above is a specimen of the breed to which Bane and Hera belonged: the Presa Canario Dog, also know as the Canary Island Fighting Dog. Noel and Knoller during the time they had possession of Bane and Hera never subjected them to any formal obedience trainin
Description: The Canary Dog or Presa Canario ancestry probably includes the now extinct naive and indigenous Bardino Majero, crossed with imported English Mastiffs. It was developed in the Canary Islands in the 1800's specifically for dog fighting. 
About This Breed. Check out photos of the Presa Canario here! A mastiff breed from the Canary Islands, the Presa Canario has a commanding appearance and may even be a potentially dangerous guard dog if raised by an inexperienced owner. Find out everything you need to know about the breed and to handle him properly before making one part of your family. History and Background. Believed to date back to the 15th or 16th century, the Presa Canario is a mastiff breed descended from the Canary Islands by Spanish conquistadores. They were used to guard farms, wrangle cattle and drive off or kill other stray or wild dogs.
The Podenco Canario is still used in the Canary Islands today in packs as a hunting dog, primarily used for rabbit hunting. The word podenco is Spanish for hound. Canario means Canarian or of the Canaries .
Tenerife Dog Breeds-all three of them. Tenerife dog breeds. As anyone who has been to Tenerife will know, the island is full of dogs, so much so that, a few years ago, it was a serious problem, with stray and feral dogs being rife. As far as I can gather, there are three breeds of dog associated with Tenerife or the Canary Islands-and there's a real odd one out! Bichon Tenerife. The bichon frise frisé is quite a famous breed and its name Is french for, small fluffy, dog which it certainly! is