Innate vs Adaptive Immunity. The major function of the immune system is to defend the host against pathogens and toxins, a task which is essential to any organism. Rather than forming into organs, the cells of the immune system are composed primarily of individual cells, and they spread throughout the body. • The response of the innate system is rapid while that of the adaptive immunity is slow (Over 1-2 weeks). • The innate system has limited and lower potency. In contrast, the adaptive system has high potency. • The innate system recognizes a broad range of pathogens, but it cannot make fine distinctions.
The cells of the innate system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system (which is found only in vertebrates), it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host. The innate immune system is an evolutionarily older defense strategy, and is the dominant immune system found in plants, fungi, insects, and primitive multicellular organisms.
First, its response is not as nimbly specific as that of the adaptive immune response. Although, as a group, pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs) can recognize many pathogens, the innate immune system mounts a generalized defense effective for some invaders but less effective for others. The innate immune system is designed to provide a kind of shock and awe protection against bacteria, viruses and other invaders. When cells in the innate immune system see an invader, they rush in to destroy it, often by releasing inflammatory chemicals such as histamines and leukotrienes.
The immune system can be classified into two subsystems: the innate and adaptive immune systems. In general, innate immunity is considered a nonspecific response, whereas the adaptive immune system is thought of as being very specific. In addition, the antigen receptors of the adaptive immune response are commonly viewed as 'master sensors' whose engagement dictates lymphocyte function. The beauty of the somatic mechanisms used to generate antigen-receptor diversity has led to rather 'TCR-and BCR-centric' views of the immune system. As a consequence, the specificity of these receptors is often presented as being unique in the immune system, especially compared with that of innate immune sensors.
Features of an Immune Response. An immune response is generally divided into innate and adaptive immunity. Innate immunity occurs immediately, when circulating innate cells recognize a problem. Adaptive immunity occurs later, as it relies on the coordination and expansion of specific adaptive immune cells. 
This process of acquired immunity is the basis of vaccination. Like the innate system, the adaptive system includes both humoral immunity components and cell-mediated immunity components. Unlike the innate immune system, the adaptive immune system is highly specific to a specific pathogen. Sometimes the adaptive system is unable to distinguish foreign molecules, the effects of this may be hayfever, asthma or any other allergies. Antigens are any substances that elicit the adaptive immune response. The cells that carry out the adaptive immune response are white blood cells known as lymphocytes.
The adaptive immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system). Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, leads to an enhanced response to subsequent encounters with that pathogen. Sometimes the adaptive system is unable to distinguish foreign molecules, the effects of this may be hayfever, asthma or any other allergies. Antigens are any substances that elicit the adaptive immune response. The cells that carry out the adaptive immune response are white blood cells known as lymphocytes.
Innate Immunity. The innate immune system is also known as the nonspecific immune system, which provides the first line of immunological defense against infection. The molecules and the receptors of the immune system provide a broad range of protection, so that it is also referred to as ‘natural immunity’. It generates a diverse set of molecules that can recognize virtually any invading pathogen. Basically, the first response is slow and highly specific to invading pathogens. • The response of the innate system is rapid while that of the adaptive immunity is slow (Over 1-2 weeks). • The innate system has limited and lower potency. In contrast, the adaptive system has high potency. • The innate system recognizes a broad range of pathogens, but it cannot make fine distinctions.
3/20/20101 Antigen recognition in innate and adaptive immunity Diversity in antigen recognition receptors Immune system The ability toThe ability to distinguish self from non-self Innate immunity • Very old. Every organism has some form of innate defence system.• Does not adapt. 
Adaptive immunity refers to antigen-specific immune response. The adaptive immune response is more complex than the innate. The antigen first must be processed and recognized. Once an antigen has been recognized, the adaptive immune system creates an army of immune cells specifically designed to attack that antigen.