JScript .NET is a .NET programming language developed by Microsoft. The primary differences between JScript and JScript .NET can be summarized as follows: 1 JScript .NET also does not require explicit type casts on variable use in the program. 2  Code used to retrieve a string of characters, but only used for integer numbers can be cast implicitly; the vice versa can be done without error at compile time, but there is a chance of loss of precision or data.
In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of JSCRIPT file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information. 
JScript is Microsoft's dialect of the ECMAScript standard that is used in Microsoft 's Internet Explorer. JScript is implemented as an Active Scripting engine. JScript was first supported in the Internet Explorer 3.0 browser released in August 1996. Its most recent version is JScript 9.0, included in Internet Explorer 9. JScript 10.0 is a separate dialect, also known as JScript .NET, which adds several new features from the abandoned fourth edition of the ECMAScript standard. It must be compiled for .NET Framework version 2 or version 4, but static type annotations are optional
JScript 8.0 is a modern scripting language with a wide variety of applications. It is a true object-oriented language, and yet it still keeps its scripting feel. JScript 8.0 maintains full backwards compatibility with previous versions of JScript, while incorporating great new features and providing access to the common language runtime and .NET Framework.
JScript is a script language from Microsoft that is expressly designed for use within Web pages. It adheres to the ECMAScript standard and is basically Microsoft's equivalent to Netscape's earlier and more widely used JavaScript. 
Microsoft JScript is an open implementation of Netscape's JavaScript. JScript is a high-performance scripting language designed to create active online content for the World Wide Web. JScript allows developers to link and automate a wide variety of objects in Web pages, including ActiveX controls and Java programs.
JScript 8.0 represents a major advance of the JScript language in several ways. With tighter integration into the Visual Studio development environment, multiple new features, and access to the .NET Framework classes, moving from JScript to JScript 8.0 may appear at first to be a daunting task. 
JScript .NET is a separate product. Even though JScript .NET is not supported within the Visual Studio IDE, its versions are in sync with other .NET languages versions (C# , VB.NET, VC++) that follows their corresponding Visual Studio versions. JScript was first supported in the Internet Explorer 3.0 browser released in August 1996. Its most recent version is JScript 9.0, included in Internet Explorer 9. JScript 10.0 is a separate dialect, also known as JScript .NET, which adds several new features from the abandoned fourth edition of the ECMAScript standard. It must be compiled for .NET Framework version 2 or version 4, but static type annotations are optional
JScript is Microsoft 's extended implementation of ECMAScript (ECMA262), an international standard based on Netscape's JavaScript and Microsoft's JScript languages. JScript is implemented as a Windows Script engine. This means that it can be plugged in to any application that supports Windows Script, such as Internet Explorer, Active Server Pages, and Windows Script Host. 