St. Thomas is an island in the Caribbean Sea and with the islands of Saint John, Saint Croix, and Water Island the newest of the four Islands to comprise the U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI), an unincorporated territory of the United States. St. Thomas is in the U.S. Virgin Islands and is just east of Puerto Rico and Haiti. St. Thomas is located just off the south eastern coast of Florida. St. Thomas of the U.S. Virgin Islands is located in the eastern Caribbean, just a mere 1100 miles southeast of Miami. You heard me…it’s not far at all from South Florida
St. Croix, and Water Island, forms a county and constituent district of the United States Virgin Islands (USVI), an unincorporated territory of the United States. Located on the island is the territorial capital and port of Charlotte Amalie. As of the 2010 census, the population of Saint Thomas was 51,634 about 48.5% of the US Virgin Islands total. The district has a land area of 31.24 square miles (80.9 km 2). The first congregation was the St. Thomas Reformed Church, which was established in 1660 and was associated with the Dutch Reformed Church. The Danish conquered the island in 1666, and by 1672 had established control over the entire island through the Danish West India and Guinea Company.
St. Thomas Map-Charlotte Amalie-Havensight-Red Hook-Sapphire. .. St. Thomas is the busiest of the three US Virgin Islands devoting most of its industry to tourism and duty free shopping. You will find a variety of stores, watersports, great dining, and entertainment in St. Thomas. 
USVI & BVI. The Virgin Islands are divided between the United States and the United Kingdom; so you have the United States Virgin Islands (USVI) and the British Virgin Islands (BVI). The USVI consist of 4 larger islands: St. Croix, St. Thomas, St. John and Water Island, and some 50 smaller islets and cays. The total area of the USVI is 133 square miles. The British Virgin Islands (BVI) are made up of 4 larger islands; Tortola, Virgin Gorda, Jost Van Dyke and Anegada, and 32 smaller islands. St. Thomas. St. Thomas is known for having one long ridge of hills running east and west through the center of the island with smaller ridges branching off from the center. St. Thomas, thirteen miles long by four miles wide, encompasses a little over 31 square miles. The highest point is Crown Mountain at 1,556 feet.
St. John. Sitting approximately 4 miles east of St. Thomas, St. John is the smallest (only 20 square miles) and least populated of the U.S. Virgin Islands. In fact, a large portion of the island is dedicated to the U.S. Virgin Islands National Park. Sapphire is not far from the tourist-centric Red Hook neighborhood of St. Thomas, located on the island's east side. You can frequently enjoy live music while you snorkel in this beach's water or lounge on its bone-white sand.
The U.S. Virgin Islands are part of the Virgin Islands archipelago, an eastern island group of the Leeward Islands of the Caribbean's Lesser Antilles region. The U.S. Virgin Islands include St. Thomas, St. John and St. Croix. Sapphire is not far from the tourist-centric Red Hook neighborhood of St. Thomas, located on the island's east side. You can frequently enjoy live music while you snorkel in this beach's water or lounge on its bone-white sand.
St. John is located about 4 miles from St. Thomas’ east end. It has hills and valleys and relatively few flat areas. St. John encompasses 20 square miles of beautiful scenery. The island is 7 miles long by 3 miles wide. St. Thomas. St. Thomas is known for having one long ridge of hills running east and west through the center of the island with smaller ridges branching off from the center. St. Thomas, thirteen miles long by four miles wide, encompasses a little over 31 square miles. The highest point is Crown Mountain at 1,556 feet.
The Elgin County Railway Museum is located in central St. Thomas. St. Thomas is also home to the North America Railway Hall of Fame, which is located in the CASO train station. The station was built in the 1870s and was a centre of travel between New York City and Chicago. It is located on Talbot Street downtown
St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. St. Thomas is home to the capital of the U.S. Virgin Islands, Charlotte Amalie. It has been the heart of St. Thomas’ activities from colonial times to present. The Cyril E. King Airport serves travelers coming to St. Thomas. Visitors staying on St. John and Water Island can easily day trip to St. Thomas; daily ferry service is available. St. Thomas is connected to St. Croix by regular inter-island air service and a ferry.