1 The properties of rocks and minerals reflect the processes that formed them. 2  As a basis for understanding this concept, students know: 3  how to differentiate among igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary rocks by their properties and methods of formation (the rock cycle). III. Sedimentary Rocks 1  -. Definition-layered rocks that form at the surface of the earth either: 2  by deposition of sediment particles from air, water, or ice environments (clastic or detrital rocks) or. 3  by precipitation of minerals from solution in water (nonclastic or chemical rocks).
They are clastic and chemical. Clastic sedimentary rock is formed as bits of weathered rock become cemented together. Because all kinds of rock are subject to weathering many different minerals can make up this group of rocks. Clays and quartz are the most common. Classification of clastic sedimentary rocks is done according to the size of the sediments that make up the rock. The following table contains the major groups of clastic sedimentary rocks with their characteristics:
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Clastic sediment, and thus clastic sedimentary rocks, are subdivided according to the dominant particle size (diameter). Most geologists use the Udden-Wentworth grain size scale and divide unconsolidated sediment into three fractions: gravel sand (1/16 to 2 mm diameter), and mud (clay silt is between 1/16 and 1/256 mm).
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution. Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Clastic sediment, and thus clastic sedimentary rocks, are subdivided according to the dominant particle size (diameter). Most geologists use the Udden-Wentworth grain size scale and divide unconsolidated sediment into three fractions: gravel sand (1/16 to 2 mm diameter), and mud (clay silt is between 1/16 and 1/256 mm).
Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together. The most common clastic sedimentary rocks are breccia and conglomerate (formed from gravel), sandstone (from sand), siltstone (from silt), and shale (from clay). B. CHEMICAL SEDIMENTARY ROCKS. Chemical sedimentary rocks are crystalline, that is made of crystals interlocked with each other.
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Clastic sediment, and thus clastic sedimentary rocks, are subdivided according to the dominant particle size (diameter). Most geologists use the Udden-Wentworth grain size scale and divide unconsolidated sediment into three fractions: gravel sand (1/16 to 2 mm diameter), and mud (clay silt is between 1/16 and 1/256 mm).
Clastic and nonclastic sedimentary rocks are the only members of the rock family that contain fossils as well as indicators of the climate (ripple marks, mudcracks and raindrops) that was present when the rock was formed. Clastic sedimentary rocks are named according to the grain size of the sediment particles. 
Nonclastic Sedimentary Rocks. Nonclastic sedimentary rocks form from chemical reactions, chiefly in the ocean. Nonclastic and clastic sedimentary rocks are the only members of the rock family that contain fossils as well as indicators of the climate that was present when the rock was formed. 
Such material, called detritus, consists of fragments of rocks and minerals. When the energy of the transporting current is not strong enough to carry these particles, the particles drop out in the process of sedimentation. This type of sedimentary deposition is referred to as clastic sedimentation. The formation of a clastic sediment and sedimentary rocks involves five processes: 1  Weathering-The first step is transforming solid rock into smaller fragments or dissolved ions by physical and chemical weathering as discussed in the last lecture.