Bay St. Louis actually got it's name from the French explorer Pierre LeMoyne D'Iberville and his brother, John Baptiste. When they first arrived at the area now known as Bay S … t. Louis, it was on the feast day of the patron saint, King Louis IX. Baptiste named the area Bay St. Louis to honor him. 
Louie /louie/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name has the meaning famous warrior. Louie is an alternate form of Louis (French, Old German). Compare last name Loui. Kreatif forms: Lalouie, Louiech, Louiela. 
Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia britannica Article. Louis (LOUIS /uk/ ˈluːi OR /us/ ; [ˈluːɪs]) lwi is The french form of The Old frankish given Name (Chlodowig Modern: German) ludwig and one of Two english, forms the other Being (/lewis/). ˈluːɪs 1 Louis XVII of France, the son of King Louis XVI of France and Marie Antoinette. 2  Louis XVIII of France, King of France and Navarre from 1815 to 1824. 3  Louis XIX of France, King of France and Navarre for twenty minutes in 1830 before his abdication.
Louis (UK /ˈluːi/ or US /ˈluːɪs/ ; [lwi]) is the French form of the Old Frankish given name Chlodowig (Modern German: Ludwig) and one of two English forms, the other being Lewis (/ˈluːɪs/). The Frankish name is composed of the words for fame (hlōd) and warrior (wīg) which may be translated to famous warrior or famous in battle. 1 Louis XVII of France, the son of King Louis XVI of France and Marie Antoinette. 2  Louis XVIII of France, King of France and Navarre from 1815 to 1824. 3  Louis XIX of France, King of France and Navarre for twenty minutes in 1830 before his abdication.
Teutonic Meaning: The name Louise is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Louise is: Famous in war. American Meaning: The name Louise is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Louise is: Famous in war. German Meaning: The name Louise is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Louise is: Renowned warrior. French Meaning: The name Louise is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Louise is: Famous warrior. Renowned fighter. 
Louis is a form of the name Ludwig. Louis is the French form of the German name Ludwig. Ludwig is derived from the elements Hlud meaning fame and wig meaning warrior. The name was borne by sixteen French Kings and was frequently used in noble families. It is also used as the Anglicized form of the Gaelic names Laoiseach and
The name Louis is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Louis is: Form of Lawrence. French Meaning: The name Louis is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Louis is: Famous warrior, from the Old German 'Chlodovech'. Eighteen kings of France have borne this name, and Louis was used by the French royal family for hundreds of years. Famous Bearer: Jazz musician Louis Armstrong. The name Louis is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Louis is: Famous in war. American Meaning: The name Louis is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Louis is: Famous in war.
Louise /loui-se/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced loo-EEZ. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Louise is famous warrior. Feminine of Louis; French version of Ludwig. Louisa was more common in the 18th and 19th centuries. Saint Louise (16th century) was co-founder with Saint Vincent de Paul of the nursing order Daughters of Charity. Author Louisa May Alcott; actresses Louise Brooks, Louise Lasser.