A Knot is defined as nautical-miles per hour, in the UK a nautical mile is defined as 6080 feet whereas it is defined as 1.852Km (or 6076.12 feet) internationally which means that 0.0639% should be added to UK knots to get International Knots. The small difference is generally not significant. 
Also, the units of knots were invented over a water surface to help with navigation. Being able to convert miles per hour to knots and vice versa is important. The surface wind speed in knots is multiplied by 1.15 to get the speed in miles per hour. A 100 knot wind is equal to 115 miles per hour while a 10 knot wind is equal to 11.5 miles per hour. Therefore, the stronger the wind the greater the difference between the numerical value of miles per hour and knots. Here are some of the answers to the questions posed above. 
This script creates a wind speed converter that can convert six different speed units at one time. Type the wind velocity you want to convert into the know speed value box. Click on the corresponding Convert button and read the results in the other fields. Use the Clear Values button to start over. The Beaufort unit is given for a range of wind velocities, which are measured at an altitude of 10 m above plain ground in open surroundings. It is a calculated value and other values cannot be calculated from it. Generally, all wind speeds faster than 11 Beaufort are grouped together to 12 Beaufort.
We assume you are converting between mile/hour and knot. You can view more details on each measurement unit: mph or knots. The SI derived unit for speed is the meter/second. 1 meter/second is equal to 2.23693629205 mph, or 1.94384449244 knots. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between miles/hour and knots. Miles per hour is a unit of speed, expressing the number of international miles covered per hour. It is commonly abbreviated in everyday use in the United States, the United Kingdom, and elsewhere to mph or MPH, although mi/h is sometimes used in technical publications.
Wind speed, or wind flow velocity, is a fundamental atmospheric rate. Wind speed is caused by air moving from high pressure to low pressure, usually due to changes in temperature. It is vital to wind speed, because the greater the difference in pressure, the faster the wind flows (from the high to low pressure) to balance out the variation. The pressure gradient, when combined with the Coriolis effect and friction, also influences wind direction.
A Knot is defined as nautical-miles per hour, in the UK a nautical mile is defined as 6080 feet whereas it is defined as 1.852Km (or 6076.12 feet) internationally which means that 0.0639% should be added to UK knots to get International Knots. The small difference is generally not significant. 
By Rachelle Oblack. Definition: A knot is a unit of measurement for wind speed. In a station model diagram, the knot is generally the standard unit used to indicate wind speed. Mathematically, one knot is equal to approximately 1.1508 statute miles. Formula to convert knots to mph. Formula to convert mph to knots. x mph X .8689762 = knots. If you do not feel like completing the math for the conversion of knots to miles per hour (mph) or kilometers per hour (kph), you can use a free online wind speed calculator to convert the results.