flickr/jennifer kirkland. Abandoned asylums don't need ghosts to make them creepy -- cages for humans, vestiges of dubious treatments, and ice-pick lobotomies do the job just fine. Any mental institution is bound to be emanating bad vibes. 
Hysteria. Tags: insanity. After viewing this list of what could have gotten you admitted to West Virginia’s Hospital for the Insane (Weston) aka Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum back in the late-1800s, I’ve swiftly concluded that the criteria was rather all-encompassing.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mental hospital, psychiatric hospital, mental institution, institution, mental home, insane asylum, asylum (noun). a hospital for mentally incompetent or unbalanced person. 
Noun. 1. insane asylum-a hospital for mentally incompetent or unbalanced person. mental home, mental hospital, mental institution, psychiatric hospital, asylum, institution. 
Asylum Filing Times. Applicants have one year from their time of arrival in the United States to file for asylum. Failure to file within one-year may preclude asylum as a form of relief. Two Tracks for Gaining Asylum. People generally refer to the two tracks for gaining asylum as affirmative and defensive. The distinction comes from having to defend oneself in immigration court. Affirmative asylum seekers have not yet begun the deportation process in court.
asylum noun (HOSPITAL). › [C] dated a ​mental ​hospital, or any other institution giving ​shelter and other ​help to ​poor or ​suffering ​people: He was ​committed to an ​insane asylum in 1899. (Definition of asylum from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). asylum noun (PROTECTION). › [U] ​protection or ​safety, or a ​protected and ​safe ​place, given esp. to someone who has ​left a ​country or ​place for ​political ​reasons: The ​refugees have ​asked for ​political asylum.
n. 1. a safe or inviolable place of refuge, esp as formerly offered by the Christian Church to criminals, outlaws, etc; sanctuary (often in the phrase give asylum to). 2. shelter; refuge. 3. (Law) international law refuge afforded to a person whose extradition is sought by a foreign government: political asylum. a·sy·lum. n. 1. Protection and immunity from extradition granted by a government to a political refugee from another country. 2. a. A place offering protection and safety; a shelter. See Synonyms at shelter. b. Protection or shelter; refuge: viewed her friend's apartment as a place of