This study reports on the antifungal effects of phenylmercuric nitrate and benzalkonium chloride in comparison with those of natamycin and ketoconazole against ocular pathogenic filamentous fungi in vitro. The activity of benzalkonium chloride against other filamentous fungi is poor basis of our study. Phenylmercuric nitrate is one of the main preservatives used worldwide in topical ophthalmic preparations in concentrations ranging from 0.001% to 0.002%.
Benzalkonium chloride is a frequently used preservative in eye drops; typical concentrations range from 0.004% to 0.01%. Stronger concentrations can be caustic and cause irreversible damage to the corneal endothelium. Benzalkonium chloride is readily soluble in ethanol and acetone. Although dissolution in water is slow, aqueous solutions are easier to handle and are preferred. Aqueous solutions should be neutral to slightly alkaline,. Solutions foam when shaken.
Phenylmercuric nitrate (Taixing Chemical, Jiangsu, China), benzalkonium chloride (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA), natamycin (Yinxiang Biotechnology, Zhejiang, China), and ketoconazole (Nanjing Second Pharmaceutical Factory, Nanjing, China) were studied. The activity of benzalkonium chloride against other filamentous fungi is poor basis of our study. Phenylmercuric nitrate is one of the main preservatives used worldwide in topical ophthalmic preparations in concentrations ranging from 0.001% to 0.002%.
Mycelial growth and spore germination of fungal isolates were inhibited with different concentrations of antifungal agents. The oil of O. vulgare and biocide benzalkonium chloride displayed the strongest antifungal activities followed by R. officinalis and L. angustifolia essential oils. An aqueous solution of the biocide benzalkonium chloride (BAC) (50% (vol/vol)) was obtained from the Institute for Protection of Cultural Monuments in Serbia. Prior to experiment biocide was diluted in sterile distilled water to make a stock solution of final concentration 10% (vol/vol).
Depending on purity, benzalkonium chloride ranges from colourless to a pale yellow (impure). Benzalkonium chloride is readily soluble in ethanol and acetone. Although dissolution in water is slow, aqueous solutions are easier to handle and are preferred. Aqueous solutions should be neutral to slightly alkaline,. Solutions foam when shaken.
Benzalkonium chloride is also used as a preservative in eye, ear, and nasal products, and as a disinfectant in household cleaners for floors and hard surfaces. You may find it in mouthwashes, hand and face washes, and spermicidal creams as well. 
The objectives of this research were to evaluate in vitro effectiveness of the biocide benzalkonium chloride (BAC) and selected essential oils (EOs) as antifungal agents against fungi isolated from cultural heritage. An aqueous solution of the biocide benzalkonium chloride (BAC) (50% (vol/vol)) was obtained from the Institute for Protection of Cultural Monuments in Serbia. Prior to experiment biocide was diluted in sterile distilled water to make a stock solution of final concentration 10% (vol/vol).
Benzalkonium chloride, also known as BZK, BKC, BAC, alkyldimethylbenzylammonium chloride and ADBAC, is a class of cationic surfactants. They are organic salts, called quaternary ammonium compounds. Benzalkonium chloride is readily soluble in ethanol and acetone. Although dissolution in water is slow, aqueous solutions are easier to handle and are preferred. Aqueous solutions should be neutral to slightly alkaline,. Solutions foam when shaken.
Abstract. In the present study, the antifungal effects of phenylmercuric nitrate and benzalkonium chloride versus those of natamycin and ketoconazole were assessed against 216 filamentous fungi isolates from cases of fungal keratitis. The activity of benzalkonium chloride against other filamentous fungi is poor basis of our study. Phenylmercuric nitrate is one of the main preservatives used worldwide in topical ophthalmic preparations in concentrations ranging from 0.001% to 0.002%.