Place the sirloin tip roast into the hot oil and brown each side of the roast for two to three minutes. Diane Shear/Demand Media. Remove the roast from the frying pan and place it into the slow cooker. Cover the slow cooker and allow the sirloin tip roast to cook on high for one hour. Diane Shear/Demand Media. Reduce the slow cooker temperature to low and continue to cook the roast for two hours. Open the slow cooker and flip the roast over. Cover the slow cooker again and cook for two more hours
Save. Make sirloin tip roast in the slow cooker for a mouth-watering meal that will tempt and tantalize you with its aroma. Prepare an herb rub and apply the rub to the outside surfaces of the sirloin tip roast approximately ten hours prior to cooking the roast. This will enhance the flavors of the roast. By cooking the sirloin tip roast in the slow cooker, it will cook slowly for full flavor and tender meat. Cover the slow cooker and allow the sirloin tip roast to cook on high for one hour. Diane Shear/Demand Media. Reduce the slow cooker temperature to low and continue to cook the roast for two hours. Open the slow cooker and flip the roast over.
Try to maintain a grill temperature of 250°F to 300°F. 4 Cover the grill and cook until the temperature of the interior of the tri-tip reaches 120°F for a rare roast, 130°F for medium-rare and 140°F for medium. At this point the meat will take anywhere from 20 to 40 minutes to cook, depending on how hot your grill is, how well done you want it, and the size of the cut. 
Sirloin is a better cut beef, so you should receive excellent results as well. Cook's Illustrated considers Sirloin Top Butt/Tip Roast to be the poor man's Prime Rib. Slow roasting is how companies like Boar's Head and Thumann's prepare their deli meats ....usually for 8-10 hours @215-225*. To roast beef slowly, preheat the oven to 250+ degrees F. After it is preheated, wait an additional 20 minutes before putting the roast in. Then put the roast in the oven and/or lower the temp to 200-225 F. Cook the meat until it gets to 120 degrees F (2.5–5 hours).
1 Speed cooking time by setting your Crock-Pot to high and cooking a sirloin tip roast for four to five hours. 2  This may result in a less-tender roast, however, because the combination of low cooking temperatures and time produces a more tender roast. A sirloin tip roast – also called a round or round tip roast – is a good choice for Crock-Pot cooking. Its location at the rear of the cow means a sirloin tip roast is a lean, weight-bearing muscle composed of tough muscle fibers and large amounts of connective tissue.
Shoulder or sirloin tip roast is done in a slow cooker with onions and tomato sauce for a total of 6 to 9 hours. The sauce is then thickened with flour. 
.. Restaurants and meat purveyors that specialize in medium-rare cuts of Top Sirloin slow roast at temperatures of 170-215* for up to 20 hours. The general rule is about 20-25 minutes per pound @ 225 for rare to medium-rare, but I find you usually have a little more leeway without fear of over-cooking. To roast beef slowly, preheat the oven to 250+ degrees F. After it is preheated, wait an additional 20 minutes before putting the roast in. Then put the roast in the oven and/or lower the temp to 200-225 F. Cook the meat until it gets to 120 degrees F (2.5–5 hours).
3. Oven-roasting the tri-tip roast Place roast in the oven and roast, uncovered, for 30 to 35 minutes or until the thermometer registers 135 degrees F. Remove from the oven and cover with foil. Let the meat stand for 15 minutes, which will bring the temperature up to 145 degrees F (medium rare) after standing. 
Place the meat on the grill. Transfer the seasoned roast to the unlit portion of the grill. Cover the grill and cook for 1 hour. 1  Stick a meat thermometer into the center of the sirloin tip roast to test its internal temperature. 2  Monitor the temperature of the grill as the meat cooks to make sure it stays relatively consistent.
Heat the oven to 325°. Line a roasting pan with foil. Put the roast in the prepared pan and rub all over with the olive oil. Combine the garlic and remaining ingredients in a small bowl then rub over the roast. Roast for 15 minutes, reduce heat to 225°, and continue roasting for about 3 hours longer, or until done as desired. 