In 1849, Theron Pond, Alexander Hart, and Edmund Munson formed the T. T. Pond Company to make and sell Golden Treasure which was renamed as Pond’s Extract. In 1904, Pond’s began selling Pond’s Extract Cold Cream and Pond’s Extract Vanishing Cream that had been developed by William Wallbridge, a chemist who worked in the Pond’s factory.
By the twentieth century, the company's main emphasis was selling cosmetics products. The Pond's Vanishing Cream  and the Pond's Cold Cream  were created, marking the entrance of Pond's products into the facial care industry. Today Ponds is sold around the world. With this merger, Pond's Creams became sisters with the Cutex nail polish brand and the Matchabelli perfumes. With the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company in command, Pond's Creams became available at many supermarkets across the United States.
By the twentieth century, the company's main strategy was geared towards selling cosmetics products, and so the Pond's Vanishing Cream  and the Pond's Cold Cream  were created, marking the entrance of Pond's products into the facial care industry. Today Ponds is sold around the world. By 1914, mentions of Pond's Healing were taken off the ads, and the Pond's company began to advertise Pond's Vanishing Cream and Pond's Cold Cream together, making sure to explain each cream's different purposes on the new ads.
The first Pond's product was created in 1846, since then the brand has flourished in Unilever's fifth most profitable Personal care property globally. In 1886, Pond's was relaunched as Pond's Extract and in 1914 Pond's Cold Cream and Vanishing Cream marked the brand's evolution to a beauty icon. By 1914, mentions of Pond's Healing were taken off the ads, and the Pond's company began to advertise Pond's Vanishing Cream and Pond's Cold Cream together, making sure to explain each cream's different purposes on the new ads.
In 1849 Pond and several partners formed the T. T. Pond Company. Mr. Pond soon sold out and died in 1852. The company moved its manufacturing facilities to Connecticut, then moved its sales offices to New York City. The company incorporated in 1914 with the name Pond's Extract Company. Around that time, owing the broader availability of witch hazel at a lower price, it became clear that Pond's Extract had no future. Among the products the company developed early in the new century were Pond's Vanishing Cream and Pond's Cold Cream.
Pond's print advertisement for vanishing cream, 1910. Pond's is a brand of beauty and health care products, currently owned by parent company the multinational corporation Unilever. With this merger, Pond's Creams became sisters with the Cutex nail polish brand and the Matchabelli perfumes. With the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company in command, Pond's Creams became available at many supermarkets across the United States.
Part of a brochure for the Pond’s Extract Company showing products made. 1911 Pond’s Extract and Pond’s Vanishing Cream. Four products from a Pond’s brochure titled ‘Creams for the Skin’ probably dated 1916. The products mentioned are Pond’s Extract Face Powder, Talcum Powder, Complexion Soap and Toothpaste. In 1904, Pond’s began selling Pond’s Extract Cold Cream and Pond’s Extract Vanishing Cream that had been developed by William Wallbridge, a chemist who worked in the Pond’s factory.
Pond's Cream is a brand of beauty and health care products that is produced by the Ponds Institute which is owned by the multinational company Unilever. By 1914, mentions of Pond's Healing were taken off the ads, and the Pond's company began to advertise Pond's Vanishing Cream and Pond's Cold Cream together, making sure to explain each cream's different purposes on the new ads.
Pond's Company was merged in 1955 with the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company, which had a good percentage of brands in the facial care field. With this merger, Pond's Creams became sisters with the Cutex nail polish brand and the Matchabelli perfumes. With the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company in command, Pond's Creams became available at many supermarkets across the United States.
By 1910, Pond's was a well established brand among Americans. Concentrating mostly on their vanishing cream, the Pond's company began an ad campaign that would become notorious because of the celebrities involved in it. With this merger, Pond's Creams became sisters with the Cutex nail polish brand and the Matchabelli perfumes. With the Chesebrough Manufacturing Company in command, Pond's Creams became available at many supermarkets across the United States.