Plankton are organisms drifting in oceans, seas, and bodies of fresh water. The word zooplankton is derived from the Greek zoon (ζῴον), meaning animal, and planktos (πλαγκτός), meaning wanderer or drifter. Individual zooplankton are usually microscopic, but some (such as jellyfish) are larger and visible with the naked eye. As a result, zooplankton are primarily found in surface waters where food resources (phytoplankton or other zooplankton) are abundant. Just as any species can be limited within a geographical region, so is zooplankton. However, species of zooplankton are not dispersed uniformly or randomly within a region of the ocean.
Noun. 1. zooplankton-animal constituent of plankton; mainly small crustaceans and fish larvae. animal, animate being, beast, creature, fauna, brute-a living organism characterized by voluntary movement. plankton-the aggregate of small plant and animal organisms that float or drift in great numbers in fresh or salt water. Plankton that consists of animals, including copepods, rotifers, jellyfish, and the larvae of sessile animals such as coral and sea anemones. zo′o·plank·ton′ic (-tŏn′ĭk) adj.
Plankton is the mass of microscopic plants and animals that float near the surface of large lakes and oceans. Phytoplankton is the plant matter while zooplankton is the animal component. Zooplankton feeds on phytoplankton and acts as a link in the food chain between plants and larger animals. Without these tiny creatures to graze on the phytoplankton, there would be a catastrophic collapse of the entire marine ecosystem and bioweb.
What are Zooplankton. The name plankton is derived from the Greek word planktos meaning to wander, and refers to the weak swimming movements of organisms in this category. Plankton can be subdivided into animals, or zooplankton, and plants, or phytoplankton. There are advantages in being small in aquatic environments: in the first place the base of the food chain, i.e. the phytoplankton, consist of microscopic plants from 1/1000 of a mm to 2 mm in size
Zooplankton Fact Sheet. Zooplankton are microscopic invertebrate animals that swim or drift in water. They are at the base of the food chain, feeding on microscopic plants and being fed upon by aquatic insects, fish and salamanders. 
Zooplankton. Animals that inhabit the water column of oceans and lakes and lack the means to counteract transport currents. Zooplankton inhabit all layers of these water bodies to the greatest depths sampled, and constitute a major link between primary production and higher trophic levels in aquatic ecosystems. 
Plankton is composed of the phytoplankton (the plants of the sea) and zooplankton (zoh-plankton) which are typically the tiny animals found near the surface in aquatic environments. Like phytoplankton, zooplankton are usually weak swimmers and usually just drift along with the currents. Specific species of zooplankton occupy particular marine habitats. Each species is uniquely adapted to factors like light, temperature, turbulence, and salinity in its environment. Zooplankton on one side of the Gulf Stream are different species from those on the other side.
Plankton (singular plankter) are a diverse group of organisms that live in the water column of large bodies of water and that cannot swim against a current. They provide a crucial source of food to many large aquatic organisms, such as fish and whales. 
Zooplankton is a categorization spanning a range of organism sizes including small protozoans and large metazoans. As a result, zooplankton are primarily found in surface waters where food resources (phytoplankton or other zooplankton) are abundant. Just as any species can be limited within a geographical region, so is zooplankton. However, species of zooplankton are not dispersed uniformly or randomly within a region of the ocean.