Upon ingestion, regardless of the route of administration, estradiol valerate behaves as a prodrug, being cleaved by esterases in blood plasma and the liver into 17β-estradiol and valeric acid. As a result, it can be administered less frequently. A single intramuscular injection of 4 mg estradiol valerate results in maximal plasma levels of estradiol of about 390 pg/ml within three days of administration, with levels declining to 100 pg/mL by 12–13 days.
Specifically, estradiol valerate is approved to treat menopausal symptoms and hormone deficiencies, and can also help relieve the symptoms of advanced prostate cancer. Advertisement. Estradiol valerate (Delestrogen ®) is a prescription medication that contains an estrogen hormone. This may include medications, natural menopause relief remedies, or non-medical ways to deal with the symptoms. Estradiol valerate is approved to treat moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms, which include hot flashes and night sweats. It is also used to treat vaginal symptoms, such as irritation and dryness.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Estradiol valerate (INN, USAN; brand names Altadiol, Deladiol, Delestrogen, Estraval, Progynova, Valergen, many others), or oestradiol valerate (BAN), is a synthetic ester, specifically the 17- pentanoyl ester, of the natural estrogen, 17β-estradiol. As a result, it can be administered less frequently. A single intramuscular injection of 4 mg estradiol valerate results in maximal plasma levels of estradiol of about 390 pg/ml within three days of administration, with levels declining to 100 pg/mL by 12–13 days.
What are the ingredients in DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate) ? DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate) is supplied in three 5 mL multiple dose vials; 10 mg/mL, 20 mg/mL, and 40 mg/mL strengths. The 10 mg/mL strength contains 10 mg estradiol valerate in a solution of chlorobutanol and sesame oil. Do not give DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate) to other people, even if they have the same symptoms you have. It may harm them. Keep DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate) out of the reach of children. This leaflet provides a summary of the most important information about DELESTROGEN (estradiol valerate) .
ESTRADIOL (es tra DYE ole) is an estrogen. It is used to treat the symptoms of low hormone levels in menopausal women. It is used to treat women who have had their ovaries removed or who have ovaries that do not work well. It helps to treat hot flashes and vaginal problems. It is also used to treat men with some kinds of prostate cancer
Changing the combination™. Qlaira ® (estradiol valerate and dienogest) is a novel combined oral contraceptive (COC) containing estradiol valerate (E2V)* and dienogest (DNG) administered in a 26/2 dosing regimen that ensures estrogen dominance early in the cycle, and progestogen dominance in the mid-to-late stages. 2,3. Estradiol valerate is the esterified form of 17β-estradiol. Estradiol valerate is rapidly absorbed and converted to estradiol. 1,2,4 It combines E 2 V with DNG, a progestogen with a pronounced endometrial effect and more than 10 million woman-years of experience in Europe with drugs such as Valette ® . 1,5-9.
Estradiol valerate is a hormone replacement medication often used for treating menopausal symptoms, hormone deficiencies, and prostate cancer. Estradiol valerate (Delestrogen ®) is a prescription hormone replacement medication that contains estrogen. It comes in the form of a long-acting injection that is injected into a muscle, usually once a month. Estradiol valerate is approved for the following uses:
Estradiol, or more precisely, 17β-estradiol, is a steroid and estrogen sex hormone, and the primary female sex hormone. It is named for and is important in the regulation of the estrous and menstrual female reproductive cycles. Estradiol is produced especially within the follicles of the female ovaries, but also in other endocrine (i.e., hormone-producing) and non-endocrine tissues (e.g., including fat, liver, adrenal, breast, and neural tissues).
This combination hormone medication is used to prevent pregnancy. It contains 2 hormones: dienogest (a progestin) and estradiol valerate (an estrogen). It works mainly by preventing the release of an egg (ovulation) during your menstrual cycle. 