In human mitochondrial genetics, Haplogroup H is a human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroup that likely originated in Southwest Asia 20,000-25,000 years Before Present. Mitochondrial haplogroup H is a predominantly European haplogroup that originated outside of Europe before the last glacial maximum (LGM). It first expanded in the northern Near East and southern Caucasus between 33,000 and 26,000 years ago, and later migrations from Iberia suggest it reached Europe before the LGM. Haplogroup H is the most common mtDNA haplogroup in Europe. Haplogroup H is found in approximately 41% of native Europeans. The haplogroup is also common in North Africa and the Middle East.
Haplogroup. In molecular evolution, a haplogroup is a group of similar haplotypes that share a common ancestor having the same single nucleotide polymorphism mutation in all haplotypes. Because a haplogroup consists of similar haplotypes, it is possible to predict a haplogroup from haplotypes. An SNP test confirms a haplogroup. Haplogroups are assigned letters of the alphabet, and refinements consist of additional number and letter combinations, for example R1b1. Y-chromosome and mitochondrial DNA haplogroups have different haplogroup designations.
Subclade. In genetics, a subclade is a subgroup of a haplogroup. Subclades are often referred to in genealogical DNA tests of human mitochondrial DNA haplogroups and human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups, where they represent subbranches of major branches on the human family tree. 
NO: This is like asking:If you are part of haplogroup F does that mean that you have white ancestry? This means that certain subclades of E have become white, and certain subclades of E have become black. Just like certain subclades of F have become white and certain subclades of F have become oriental. In other words certain subclades of E (esp. E1b1b) are white while certain subclades (esp.
Report Abuse. dna testing normally is limited to showing what haplogroups are in your genes, and a broad area. When it is used in a surname project, the intent is to MATCH against other persons, and define if there is a biological relationship. This won't have anything to do with the haplogroup origins. The following as your scroll down you will find your specific Haplogroup http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haplogroup_... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User%3ASwid... Now understand, no way does this represent your father's total ancestry.
Haplogroup is the term scientists use to describe individual branches, or closely related groups of branches, on the genetic family tree of all humans. When you first reach the Paternal or Maternal Line page, you will see a map and a brief history of your haplogroup. Click on the Haplogroup Tree tab to see yourself highlighted on the haplogroup tree: At the left edge of the tree is the common ancestor of all living people.
Future work will better resolve the distribution and historical characteristics of this haplogroup. H1 – H1 is the most common branch of haplogroup H. It represents 30% of people in haplogroup H, and 46% of the maternal lineages in Iberia. 13-14% of all Europeans belong to this branch, and H1 is about 13,000 years old. H1a – H1a is a branch of H1. 
Mtdna is much more useful for defining race then Y-dna (mainly due to the fact that mtdna haplogroups are much older then y-dna haplogroups) y-dna haplogroups can still be used to define race you just have to be a bit more careful. This means that certain subclades of E have become white, and certain subclades of E have become black. Just like certain subclades of F have become white and certain subclades of F have become oriental. In other words certain subclades of E (esp. E1b1b) are white while certain subclades (esp.
More about Haplogroups. Haplogroup is the term scientists use to describe individual branches, or closely related groups of branches, on the genetic family tree of all humans. All members of a haplogroup trace their ancestry back to a single individual. When you first reach the Paternal or Maternal Line page, you will see a map and a brief history of your haplogroup. Click on the Haplogroup Tree tab to see yourself highlighted on the haplogroup tree: At the left edge of the tree is the common ancestor of all living people.
Maternal haplogroups are of greatest interest if (a) they have a known history or (b) they enable people to discover others who are related to them. Scientists are continually revising the tree that indicates which mutations define each maternal haplogroup, and how all the haplogroups are related. The more up-to-date the tree used for haplogroup assignments is, the more accurate and more meaningful those assignments are. In general the higher resolution the haplogroup, the more meaningful the sharing of a haplogroup. For example, if your haplogroup is H2, you share that haplogroup with over 600 23andMe customers; on the other hand, if your assignment is H2a2b, you share that with just over 60 customers.