1. unrealistically. Pronunciation: /ˌʌnrɪəˈlɪstɪkli/. Example sentences. 1  But it strikes me as hypocrisy that the market is allowed to become unrealistically overbought, but has to be slapped back into line when it is, reputedly, critically oversold. 1 It can, admittedly, be hard to distinguish between being idealistic and being unrealistic. 2  He said it was unrealistic to expect tempers not to flare, given the sporting history between the two schools.
1 in a manner that is not realistic ⇒ ■ 'He'll probably be able to make his own lunch when he's about 7,' she replied, unrealistically. adverb. 1  in a manner that is not realistic ⇒ ■ 'He'll probably be able to make his own lunch when he's about 7,' she replied, unrealistically.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. Contribute to our Open Dictionary. based on hopes or wishes, and not on what is likely or possible. Many people in the workplace are set completely unrealistic targets. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of unrealistic from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
(October 2008). Positive illusions are unrealistically favorable attitudes that people have towards themselves or to people that are close to them. Positive illusions are a form of self-deception or self-enhancement that feel good, maintain self-esteem or stave off discomfort at least in the short term. Positive illusions can have advantages and disadvantages for the individual, and there is a controversy over whether they are evolutionarily adaptive. The illusions may have direct health benefits by helping the person cope with stress, or by promoting work towards success.
Definitions. 1  in a manner that is not realistic ⇒ ■ 'He'll probably be able to make his own lunch when he's about 7,' she replied, unrealistically. , ⇒ ■ 2  People often unrealistically describe ideal relationships as completely free from conflict or difference. adverb. 1  in a manner that is not realistic ⇒ ■ 'He'll probably be able to make his own lunch when he's about 7,' she replied, unrealistically.
: not able to see things as they really are. : based on what is wanted or hoped for rather than on what is possible or likely: not sensible and appropriate. : not showing people and things as they are in real life. Full Definition of UNREALISTIC. : not realistic: inappropriate to reality or fact. — un·re·al·is·ti·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See unrealistic defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT
unrealistically (ˌʌnrɪəˈlɪstɪkəlɪ). 1  in a manner that is not realistic ⇒ ■ 'He'll probably be able to make his own lunch when he's about 7,' she replied, unrealistically. , ⇒ ■ 2  People often unrealistically describe ideal relationships as completely free from conflict or difference. adverb. 1  in a manner that is not realistic ⇒ ■ 'He'll probably be able to make his own lunch when he's about 7,' she replied, unrealistically.
low; otherwise, Bolton taxpayers will continue paying rates that exceed what is really needed to fund the town's government. Urges additional spending cuts by Telegram & Gazette (Worcester, MA). The commentaries about the budget 2012, the biggest ever in Macedonia's history, range from criticisms that it is. 