Answer   Tangrams are ancient Chinese puzzle patterns that consist of seven pieces. The seven pieces include: a small square, a parallelogram, two small congruent … triangles, one medium triangle, and two large congruent triangles. The origin of Tangram puzzles is debatable. You are allowed to rotate the Tangrams as necessary.     Tangrams test your spatial ability with the different size of the pieces. For example, there are triangles of various sizes to choose from. It is important to place them in the correct position and at the correct angle to produce the picture.
Definition of TANGRAM. : a Chinese puzzle made by cutting a square of thin material into five triangles, a square, and a rhomboid which are capable of being recombined in many different figures. See tangram defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The tangram is among the most popular of all dissection puzzles that exist today. A tangram is an ancient, unique, Chinese puzzle that consists of seven (geometric) pieces: one square, five triangles and one parallelogram. When all pieces are put together, they form one big square, when they are sperated, they form what is called a tan. When it comes to tangrams, the challenge is to arrange the pieces to form additional shapes. The seven pieces can be arranged to make anything form a rabbit, to the alphabet, to a person. The tangram is the opposite of a jigsaw puzzle.
The noun TANGRAM has 1 sense: 1. a Chinese puzzle consisting of a square divided into seven pieces that must be arranged to match particular designs. Familiarity information: TANGRAM used as a noun is very rare. 
The tangram (Chinese: 七巧板; pinyin: qīqiǎobǎn; literally: seven boards of skill) is a dissection puzzle consisting of seven flat shapes, called tans, which are put together to form shapes. The first Tangram book to be published in America was based on the pair brought by Donnaldson. The puzzle was originally popularized by The Eighth Book Of Tan, a fictitious history of Tangram, which claimed that the game was invented 4,000 years prior by a god named Tan.
Choosing a unit of measurement so that the seven pieces can be assembled to form a square of side one unit and having area one square unit, the seven pieces are: 1  2 large right triangles (hypotenuse, sides, area). 2  1 medium right triangle (hypotenuse, sides, area). 3  2 small right triangles (hypotenuse, sides, area). The first Tangram book to be published in America was based on the pair brought by Donnaldson. The puzzle was originally popularized by The Eighth Book Of Tan, a fictitious history of Tangram, which claimed that the game was invented 4,000 years prior by a god named Tan.
Tangram. The tangram is a dissection puzzle consisting of seven flat shapes, called tans, which are put together to form shapes. The objective of the puzzle is to form a specific shape using all seven pieces, which may not overlap. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tangram (Noun). A Chinese puzzle made of a square that is cut up into different triangular pieces which can then be reassembled to make designs.
A traditional Chinese puzzle made of a square divided into seven pieces (one parallelogram, one square and five triangles) that can be arranged to match particular designs. more ... A traditional Chinese puzzle made of a square divided into seven pieces (one parallelogram, one square and five triangles) that can be arranged to match particular designs. Tangrams. Search :: Index :: About :: Contact :: Contribute :: Cite This Page :: Privacy.