2 In a large bowl, vigorously whisk together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, and ground nutmeg. 3 In another large bowl, whisk together the sugar, eggs, vanilla extract, and salt (omit salt if using salted butter). Stir in the drained grated zucchini and then the melted butter. 4 Add the flour mixture, a third at a time, to the sugar egg zucchini mixture, stirring after each incorporation. Fold in the nuts and dried cranberries or raisins if using. 5 Divide the batter equally between the loaf pans. Bake for 50 minutes at 350°F (175°C) or until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean. 
1 loaf pans. 2  In a large bowl, beat sugar, oil, eggs and vanilla until well blended. 3  In another bowl, whisk flour, salt, baking soda, lemon peel, cinnamon and baking powder; gradually beat into sugar mixture, mixing just until moistened. 4  Stir in zucchini and walnuts. 5  Transfer to prepared pans. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350°. 2  Grease two 8x4-in. 3  loaf pans. 4  In a large bowl, beat sugar, oil, eggs and vanilla until well blended. 5  In another bowl, whisk flour, salt, baking soda, lemon peel, cinnamon and baking powder; gradually beat into sugar mixture, mixing just until moistened. 6  Stir in zucchini and walnuts.
Gradually add 2 cups sugar. Stir in 1 cup vegetable oil and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Beat until thick and lemon colored. Stir in zucchini. In a medium bowl, whisk together to combine 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon baking soda, 1/4 teaspoon baking powder and 1 teaspoon salt. Stir dry mixture into wet mixture, stirring to combine. Add chopped walnuts or pecans, if desired
1 Grease two 9x5 inch loaf pans. 2  In a large bowl, mix together the spelt flour, sesame seeds, salt, molasses, baking soda and milk until well blended. 3  Divide the batter evenly between the prepared pans. 4  Bake for 1 hour and 10 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden. 
Instructions. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 2  Butter two loaf pans and set aside. 3  Beat together the eggs, butter, mashed banana, honey, brown sugar and vanilla. 4  Once integrated, stir shredded zucchini into the wet ingredients. 5  In another bowl, combine flour, cocoa powder, salt, cinnamon and baking powder. 1 Once integrated, stir shredded zucchini into the wet ingredients. 2  In another bowl, combine flour, cocoa powder, salt, cinnamon and baking powder. 3  Gently whisk until fully integrated. 4  Add the dry ingredient to the wet in three batches, stirring well to integrate before adding more.
1 Preheat oven to 350°. 2  Grease two 8x4-in. 3  loaf pans. 4  In a large bowl, beat sugar, oil, eggs and vanilla until well blended. 5  In another bowl, whisk flour, salt, baking soda, lemon peel, cinnamon and baking powder; gradually beat into sugar mixture, mixing just until moistened. 6  Stir in zucchini and walnuts. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350°. 2  Grease two 8x4-in. 3  loaf pans. 4  In a large bowl, beat sugar, oil, eggs and vanilla until well blended. 5  In another bowl, whisk flour, salt, baking soda, lemon peel, cinnamon and baking powder; gradually beat into sugar mixture, mixing just until moistened. 6  Stir in zucchini and walnuts.
Directions. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. In a large bowl, combine flour, salt, nutmeg, baking soda, cinnamon and sugar. In a separate bowl, combine oil, eggs, water, zucchini and lemon juice. Mix wet ingredients into dry, add nuts and fold in. Bake in 2 standard loaf pans, sprayed with nonstick spray, for 1 hour, or until a tester comes out clean. Alternately, bake in 5 mini loaf pans for about 45 minutes.
Common misspellings of the word zucchini are: 1  ucchini. 2  uzcchini. 3  zcchini. 4  zcuchini. 5  zucchii. 6  zucchiin. 7  zucchin. 8  zucchni. 9  zucchnii. 10  zuccihni. 11  zuccini. 12  zuchcini. 13  zuchini. 14  zucchini in french. 15  zucchini in spanish. 16  zucchini in german. 17  zucchini in italian. 18  zucchini in portuguese. It is not ucchini or uzcchini or zcchini or zcuchini or zucchii or zucchiin or zucchin or zucchni or zucchnii or zuccihni or zuccini or zuchcini or even zuchini for that matter! 1  n. , pl. 2  zucchini or-nis.
Mix together the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a bowl and set aside. In a larger bowl, mix together the zucchini, yogurt, eggs, melted butter and sugar. When combined, add the flour mixture and mix well. Pour into the prepared loaf pan and place in the oven for 55-60 minutes or until a toothpick or wooden skewer comes out clean. Notes: First up, one of my favorite things to do with zucchini – chocolate zucchini bread! This bread is moist and dense but still light and of course delicious. It’s not too sweet so feel free to add a little more sugar. Be aware that sucanat has a drying effect so if you add much more you may need to add a splash of milk.