Cat-scratch disease is a bacterial disease that people may get after being bitten or scratched by a cat. About 40% of cats carry the bacteria at some time in their lives, although kittens younger than 1 year of age are more likely to have it. Most cats with this infection show no signs of illness. Sporotrichosis is a fungal disease that can affect both animals and people. It is usually acquired from the environment through a cut or scrape in the skin but can be acquired from contact with animals as well. Infection with sporotrichosis in cats can range from no signs of illness to very serious disease.
Toxoplasmosis (Toxoplasma gondii). Toxoplasmosis is a parasitic disease that can spread to people and animals through contaminated soil, water, or meat, and contact with stool from an infected cat. Cats are the main source of infection to other animals but rarely appear sick. Sporotrichosis is a fungal disease that can affect both animals and people. It is usually acquired from the environment through a cut or scrape in the skin but can be acquired from contact with animals as well. Infection with sporotrichosis in cats can range from no signs of illness to very serious disease.
Known as cat scratch fever or cat scratch disease, bartonellis is a bacterial disease that can be transmitted between animals and humans. Cats usually get it from ingesting flea feces while grooming, or from infected ticks. Humans get it from ticks or when scratched or bitten by an infected cat. There are very few diseases that can be passed from cats to humans. Dr. Ken Greer/Visuals Unlimited/Corbis. You're at greater risk of contracting an illness from the person in the next cubicle than of getting a disease from a cat.
Zoonotic illnesses are diseases humans can get from animals. Many infectious diseases can spread from animals to people, and some of these can come from your pet. 
Salmonellosis is another bacterial infection that may be transmitted from cats to humans. The transmission method is through feces. Cats may get contaminated by eating raw meat, wild animals that are carriers of the bacteria or by eating feces from contaminated felines. The infection occurs if you are scratched or bitten by a cat that is infected with the bacteria. Fleas may also transmit this infection. The cat scratch disease is manifested through symptoms such as inflamed lymph nodes, fever, muscle pain and headaches.
Cat Scratch Fever. Cat scratch fever is a bacterial disease that cats get from flea bites or when flea droppings get into a wound. In most cases, cats show no symptoms of the disease. When symptoms appear, they are usually severe. They include inflammation of the heart and labored breathing. 
Cat scratch disease (bartonellosis). This bacterial disease is spread from cat to cat by fleas, but people usually become infected from a cat scratch or bite. If you develop cat scratch disease, you may develop a mild infection and flu-like symptoms or more serious problems such as damage to the valves in the heart. Reduce the risk of cat scratch disease:
There are a minimum of 39 important diseases that people catch directly from animals, 42 important diseases that people get by eating or touching food or water contaminated with animal feces, and at least 48 important diseases that humans can get from the bite of bugs that feasted on an infected animal. 
Bacterial Infections from Cats. The most common zoonotic disease that is transmitted from cats to humans is the cat scratch disease, also known as the bartonellosis. The infection occurs if you are scratched or bitten by a cat that is infected with the bacteria. Fleas may also transmit this infection. The cat scratch disease is manifested through symptoms such as inflamed lymph nodes, fever, muscle pain and headaches.