2. One of the key variables in consultative sales is your knowledge of the customer’s business process. You must learn everything you can about the customer’s business before you even dare to suggest a solution or course of action. In selling to businesses, you must learn how sales are generated. In consultative selling it is important that you know exactly who your customer is and how to identify their needs and wants. It requires that you think of yourself differently and that you position yourself differently in the account.
The Consultative Selling Process is the success model professional car salespeople employ. Yes, during the initial few minutes you need to let the prospect know you are professional, knowledgeable, competent. The consultative selling process is leading the prospect to a vehicle that fits. The fit means finding out exactly what it is the prospect wants changed or corrected. Specifically, what need or needs exist.
Consultative sales is a selling method where the sales person spends time with the company to understand the problem it is trying to solve, and then recommends a solution that will specifically address their problem. Techniques used in consultative selling would include the following: 1  Asking questions: The sales person doesn't assume he or she knows what the customer needs, or even that the customer knows initially. 2  Instead he or she takes time to fully understand the problem the customer hopes to solve with the purchase.
The job of any consultative selling approach is to help make your customer realize their own problems AND how much they want this problem solved. Every salesperson I've coached wants a process that's easy to understand, implement, and help them make more sales. If there is one secret to sales success, it lies in your ability see things from your customers point of view -- as well as your own. And because of this simple secret, we have an endless array of consultative selling models to choose from.
With inbound sales, the goal of sales is to sell what you create. Sales is not an end in itself. This is often known as the consultative sales process, and it can make all the difference in the world to you, your business, and your customers. The consultative sales process is primarily focused on the experience that the potential customer (the lead) feels and sees during their interactions with you. It’s about the how you find ways to provide your leads with value and make it all about them. Not your product, your business, your numbers. The consultative sales process is most especially not about you. Sometimes this is also referred to as solution-based selling. Solution selling is a sales methodology. 
Solution selling is a sales methodology. Rather than just promoting an existing product, the salesperson focuses on the customer's pain(s) and addresses the issue with his or her offerings (product and services). The resolution of the pain is what constitutes a solution. 
A sales process is consultative when the stages and actions align with the customer’s buying experience and are defined in terms of the customer relationship. However, it is successful only when sales leadership and the sales force execute with dedication and competence. 
Consultative selling is an approach to personal selling that places heavy emphasis on the salesperson's role as a consultant, as opposed to a peddler or pusher of products. This process emerged in the 1960s and 1970s as companies began to distance themselves from the negative stigmas associated with salespeople. Need Recognition and Problem-Solving. Just as need recognition is the first step in the consumer decision-making process, it's also a critical early step in the consultative selling process. Often, prospects approach businesses and salespeople without a full understanding of their need or how to fill it.