Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) were introduced in the late 1950s. They were the first class of antidepressants shown to be effective in well-controlled studies. TCAs are called tricyclic because their chemical structure traditionally contained three rings. Today, TCAs are often called cyclic antidepressants because some of the newer drugs in this category actually have four rings.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are a class of antidepressant medications that share a similar chemical structure and biological effects. Scientists believe that patients with depression may have an imbalance in neurotransmitters, chemicals that nerves make and use to communicate with other nerves. In addition, they are used for several off-label (non-FDA approved) uses such as: 1  panic disorder, 2  bulimia, 3  chronic pain (for example, migraine, tension headaches, diabetic neuropathy, and post herpetic neuralgia), 4  phantom limb pain, 5  chronic itching, and. 6  premenstrual symptoms.
Side effects that are commonly reported can include drowsiness, nausea, and headaches. As with any type of medicine, there are possible side effects with tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). However, not everyone who takes a tricyclic antidepressant will experience side effects. In fact, most people tolerate the medication well. 
Developed in the 1950s, tricyclic antidepressants, or TCAs, have a strong history of anxiety and depression treatment. The name tricyclic comes from the atomic structure of these medications, which consists of three molecular ring shapes. Until 1988, TCAs were commonly prescribed by physicians. However, with the discovery of many SSRIs, TCAs lost their significance due to a harsher profile of side effects. Today, many TCAs are used when other prescription antidepressant medications fail to produce positive treatment results.
Tricyclic antidepressants differ in their relative effects on serotonin, norepinephrine, and acetylcholine. The differences are reflected in how the tricyclic antidepressants are used and, most importantly, their propensity to cause certain side effects. For instance, amitriptyline (Elavil) causes more sedation, dry mouth, and constipation than other tricyclic antidepressants.
Tricyclic antidepressant overdose is caused by excessive use or overdose of a tricyclic antidepressant drug. It is a significant cause of fatal drug poisoning. The severe morbidity and mortality associated with these drugs is well documented due to their cardiovascular and neurological toxicity. 
How tricyclic and tetracyclic antidepressants work. Tricyclic and tetracyclic antidepressants ease depression by affecting naturally occurring chemical messengers (neurotransmitters), which are used to communicate between brain cells. Cyclic antidepressants are designated as tricyclic or tetracyclic, depending on the number of rings in their chemical structure — three (tri) or four (tetra). Those approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat depression are listed below. Tricyclic antidepressants: 1  Amitriptyline.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are chemical compounds used primarily as antidepressants. TCAs were first discovered in the early 1950s and marketed later in the decade. They are named after their chemical structure, which contains three rings of atoms. Tetracyclic antidepressants (TeCAs), which contain four rings of atoms, are a closely related group of antidepressant compounds.
Tricyclic antidepressants are generally used to treat depression. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are prescription medications typically used to treat depression. A few of the tricyclic antidepressants are approved to treat other conditions, such as bedwetting, anxiety, insomnia, or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Some potential side effects of these medications include dizziness, drowsiness, and headaches
Tricyclic and tetracyclic antidepressants, also called cyclic antidepressants, were among the earliest antidepressants developed. They're effective, but they've generally been replaced by antidepressants that cause fewer side effects. Cyclic antidepressants are designated as tricyclic or tetracyclic, depending on the number of rings in their chemical structure — three (tri) or four (tetra). Those approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat depression are listed below. Tricyclic antidepressants: 1  Amitriptyline.