What is an interface. Interface looks like class but it is not a class. An interface can have methods and variables just like the class but the methods declared in interface are by default abstract (only method signature, no body). Also, the variables declared in an interface are public, static & final by default. 
Trail: Creating a GUI With JFC/Swing. Also known as The Swing Tutorial. This trail tells you how to create graphical user interfaces (GUIs) for applications and applets, using the Swing components. If you would like to incorporate JavaFX into your Swing application, please see Integrating JavaFX into Swing Applications. Getting Started with Swing is a quick start lesson
Swing is a GUI widget toolkit for Java. It is part of Oracle 's Java Foundation Classes (JFC) — an API for providing a graphical user interface (GUI) for Java programs. Swing was developed to provide a more sophisticated set of GUI components than the earlier Abstract Window Toolkit (AWT) 
GUI stands for Graphical User Interface. The web browser in which you are viewing this website too can be considered a GUI to know more abt java i found out this amazing chan … nel on youtube. its called as SLIDENEARD. Its a channel dedicated to java programming issues. JRE is used to run web applets, desktop applications, class applications, and any other kind of file that is coded in Java. Without … JRE, you with not be able to use java. Java JDK is the Java Developers Kit.
Java GUI programming involves two packages: the original abstract windows kit (AWT) and the newer Swing toolkit. Swing components have the prefix J to distinguish them from the original AWT ones (e.g. JFrame instead of Frame). A Java source code file is compiled into byte code wherein a class file is generated that functions as a blueprint for the runtime execution. Here is an example: This is a string passed to the print line method of the System class. Here is code that show a GUI with a button.
Definition: GUI stands for Graphical User Interface. A program's graphical user interface presents an easy-to-use visual display to the user. It is made up of graphical components (e.g., buttons, labels, windows). To make graphical user interfaces in Java either Swing (older applications) or JavaFX is used. 
A Java GUI application uses the standard Java components GUI component set, Swing, and is deployed to the desktop. The Swing GUI Builder in NetBeans IDE simplifies the GUI development process and enables you to visually create Java GUI applications using pre-installed Swing and AWT components.
Java JRE is the Java Runtime Environment. JRE is used to run web applets, desktop applications, class applications, and any other kind of file that is coded in Java. Without … JRE, you with not be able to use java. Java JDK is the Java Developers Kit. The Java Development Kit is used when developing Java applications
An interface in Java programming language is an abstract type that is used to specify an interface (in the generic sense of the term) that classes must implement. Interfaces are defined with the following syntax (compare to Java's class definition): Example: public interface I1 extends I2; The body of the interface contains abstract methods, but since all methods in an interface are, by definition, abstract, the abstract keyword is not required.
Java includes a concept called interfaces. A Java interface is a bit like a class, except a Java interface can only contain method signatures and fields. An Java interface cannot contain an implementation of the methods, only the signature (name, parameters and exceptions) of the method. Here is a simple Java interface example: As you can see, an interface is declared using the Java interface keyword. Just like with classes, a Java interface can be declared public or package scope (no access modifier). The interface example above contains one variable and one method.