The ER doctor diagnosed mr w/ gastroenteritis and sent mr home e w/ a zofran script. Next day I had most of the same symptoms + general feeling of being tired/lethargic. Day three I started to improve, except the nausea and burning has been persistent. Go see the doctor. I just got over gastroenteritis and the doctor gave me Zofran. It's safe in pregnancy and really knocks out nausea so you can eat and drink. Staying hydrated is important to prevent contractions.
Ondansetron appears cost-effective in the ED setting. An evidence-based review of ondansetron for gastroenteritis by the Canadian Paediatric Society recommended. -a single oral dose of ondansetron for children (aged 6 months to 12 years). —with mild to moderate dehydration or failed oral rehydration and. —not predominantly moderate to severe diarrhea. Ondansetron can be administered by IV or orally (dissolving formulations are available). A non-randomized Canadian study suggested that standardized pathways for managing dehydration due to gastroenteritis in the ED might reduce IV use and length of stay with no effect on revisit rates. Adding ondansetron to such standardized gastroenteritis treatment pathways might benefit patients further.
While most cases of pediatric gastroenteritis are self-limiting, studies from the emergency setting show that a single dose of oral ondansetron can help reduce vomiting, the need for IV fluids, and hospital admission. A non-randomized Canadian study suggested that standardized pathways for managing dehydration due to gastroenteritis in the ED might reduce IV use and length of stay with no effect on revisit rates. Adding ondansetron to such standardized gastroenteritis treatment pathways might benefit patients further.
MedPage Today Senior Writer. TORONTO, April 20 - A single oral dose of the antiemetic Zofran (ondansetron) can reduce vomiting by more than half and facilitate oral rehydration in children with gastroenteritis, according to pediatric emergency researchers. Therefore it may be useful therapy in an emergency department for children with vomiting and mild-to-moderate dehydration as a result of gastroenteritis, they concluded. This study was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health and GlaxoSmithKline, Zofran's maker.
Zofran can't help with what doesn't exist. Flu is a respiratory infection, never forget that. You're asking about gastroenteritis. I have a very very serious phobia of vomit and vomiting which causes me to feel sick very often. 
We conducted a double-blind trial to determine whether a single oral dose of ondansetron, an antiemetic, would improve outcomes in children with gastroenteritis. We enrolled 215 children 6 months through 10 years of age who were treated in a pediatric emergency department for gastroenteritis and dehydration. Study #1: In subjects with acute gastritis/acute gastroenteritis and mild to moderate dehydration who failed initial oral rehydration therapy, the proportion of children who received intravenous hydration was smaller in the ondansetron group than in the placebo group. Citation Roslund G, Hepps TS, McQuillen KK.
In children with gastroenteritis and dehydration, a single dose of oral ondansetron reduces vomiting and facilitates oral rehydration and may thus be well suited for use in the emergency department. Vomiting limits the success of oral rehydration in children with gastroenteritis. We conducted a double-blind trial to determine whether a single oral dose of ondansetron, an antiemetic, would improve outcomes
Read More. I am sure I mentioned being in the hospital with the gastroenteritis and the ER doc being impressed enough to give me Zofran, Oxycontin and some other stuff. Took all of it the next day and the day after that because headache and nausea ....bad....continued. They wanted to monitor my husband so he was admitted in the hospital. First diagnosis is Gastroenteritis. My husband is constantly feeling nausea and stomach pain so he was having IV shots of Zofran and morphine every 4 hours. Sunday morning, he was able to eat clear diet (jello, sorbet, soda).