DESCRIPTION The autonomic nervous system (ANS) regulates physiologic processes, such as blood pressure, heart rate, body temperature, digestion, metabolism, fluid and electrolyte balance, sweating, urination, defecation, sexual response, and other processes. Gastrointestinal secretions and motility (including evacuation) are stimulated, heart rate is slowed, and blood pressure decreases. Disorders of the ANS can affect any system of the body; they can originate in the peripheral or central nervous system and may be primary or secondary to other disorders.
Autonomic neuropathy is a possible complication of a number of diseases, and the tests you'll need often depend on your symptoms and risk factors for autonomic neuropathy. When you have known risk factors for autonomic neuropathy. If you have conditions that increase your risk of autonomic neuropathy (such as diabetes) and have symptoms of the condition, extensive testing may not be necessary. Your doctor may perform a physical exam and ask about your symptoms.
The autonomic nervous system (ANS or visceral nervous system) is the part of the peripheral nervous system that acts as a control system functioning largely below the level of consciousness, and controls visceral functions. The sympathetic nervous system is another part of the autonomic nervous system. The action of the SNS regulates the “housekeeping” processes, such as tightening blood vessels when you stand up and increasing heart rate and force of the heartbeat when you exercise.
Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) Testing. Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) testing is a powerful diagnostic tool to assess communication from the brain to various organs such as the heart & vascular system, lungs, kidneys, stomach, liver, intestines & digestive system. Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) testing has a standardized and specific protocol established for acquiring reliable and accurate results. Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) testing can be tolerated by most patients as there are specific maneuvers required to be performed throughout the test.
To see if a disease is affecting the autonomic nervous system, several tests are done to monitor blood pressure, blood flow, heart rate, skin temperature, and sweating. By measuring these functions, it is possible to discover whether or not the autonomic nervous system is functioning normally. Tests to measure blood pressure and heart rate include the tilt table test, a deep breathing test and the Valsalva maneuver. Autonomic Testing. Autonomic tests measure how the systems in the body that are controlled by the autonomic nerves respond to stimulation. The data collected during testing will indicate if the autonomic nervous system is functioning as it should, or if nerve damage has occurred.
Autonomic testing can help determine if a patient is suffering from certain diseases that attack the autonomic nervous system, or as a way to diagnose an illness, or source of pain. Autonomic Testing. Autonomic tests measure how the systems in the body that are controlled by the autonomic nerves respond to stimulation. The data collected during testing will indicate if the autonomic nervous system is functioning as it should, or if nerve damage has occurred.
Within the brain, the autonomic nervous system is regulated by the hypothalamus. Autonomic functions include control of respiration, cardiac regulation (the cardiac control center), vasomotor activity (the vasomotor center), and certain reflex actions such as coughing, sneezing, swallowing and vomiting. 
Clinical autonomic disease and the role of autonomic testing. The autonomic nervous system (ANS) is responsible for the homeostatic control of numerous bodily functions such as blood pressure and body temperature regulation, urinary function, pupil size, sweating, sexual function, and digestion.
The autonomic nervous system (ANS) is an extensive neural network whose main role is to regulate the body's internal environment and functions by controlling homeostasis, hemodynamics, blood pressure, heart rate, blood glucose levels, sweating, and visceral functions such as digestion, bladder, and sexual organs. ANS dysfunction could be related to reduced autonomic nervous system activity or imbalance between sympathetic and parasympathetic systems and it is assessed by the heart rate variability analysis. ANS Dysfunction is the earliest stage of the autonomic neuropathy.