Calcite is a carbonate mineral and the most stable polymorph of calcium carbonate (Ca C O 3). Calcite is transparent to opaque and may occasionally show phosphorescence or fluorescence. A transparent variety called Iceland spar is used for optical purposes. Acute scalenohedral crystals are sometimes referred to as dogtooth spar while the rhombohedral form is sometimes referred to as nailhead spar. Single calcite crystals display an optical property called birefringence (double refraction
Cobaltocalcite. - Cobaltocalcite refers to an intermediary mineral between Calcite and Sphaerocobaltite in a solid solution series. It is most often perceived as a cobalt-rich variety of Calcite with a rich pink color. (Cobaltocalcite may also be mistakenly used as a synonym for Sphaerocobaltite). A microcrystalline type of Calcite in globular form is common in certain regions. This Calcite forms from precipitating calcium-rich water inside cavern s or on limestone cliffs. It exists in the form of stalagmite s, stalactite s, flowstone, and strange globular growths.
1 The primary use for calcite is in the construction industry. 2  The products containing calcite, limestone and marble, are commonly used on building projects. 3  These are commonly used to create cement or concrete. 4  Calcite is also used in commercial acid neutralization. Uses Of Calcite. 1  The primary use for calcite is in the construction industry. 2  The products containing calcite, limestone and marble, are commonly used on building projects. 3  These are commonly used to create cement or concrete. 4  Calcite is also used in commercial acid neutralization.
Calcite is the one of the most common minerals on earth. It occurs in a seemingly unlimited variety of shapes and colors. It constitutes a major portion of many of the earth's rocks. Calcite belongs to the calcite group of minerals, a group of related carbonates that are isomorphous with one another. A microcrystalline type of Calcite in globular form is common in certain regions. This Calcite forms from precipitating calcium-rich water inside cavern s or on limestone cliffs. It exists in the form of stalagmite s, stalactite s, flowstone, and strange globular growths.
Answer by Paul Jones. Confidence votes 68.1K. Rockhound. The mineral calcite is used in medicines (such as antacids), as a soil conditioner, as roadbed material and building stone (in the form of limestone and marble), in a variety of cosmetics and in toothpaste, and in the production of steel and cement. 
Calcite is a rock-forming mineral with a chemical formula of CaCO 3. It is extremely common and found throughout the world in sedimentary, metamorphic and igneous rocks. Some geologists consider it to be a ubiquitous mineral - one that is found everywhere. The Acid Test for Carbonate Minerals. Limestone is a sedimentary rock that is composed primarily of calcite. It forms from both the chemical precipitation of calcium carbonate and the transformation of shell, coral, fecal and algal debris into calcite during diagenesis. Limestone also forms as a deposit in caves from the precipitation of calcium carbonat
Calcite is an important mineral for many industrial purposes. It is commonly used in the construction industry, especially for cementation. Other industrial purposes include the production of various metals, glass and rubber. There are also many important chemicals made with calcite, including paints and fertilizers. About Calcite-History and Introduction. Calcite is the most stable form of calcium carbonate and a primary ore of calcium. Calcium carbonates are a very abundant group of minerals and in their purest form, they are completely colorless with excellent transparency.