For an evenly cooked roast, place the roast on the middle rack of the preheated oven. 6. Calculate the cooking time for your roast at 7 minutes per 1 lb. of meat (7 minutes per 453g). When you have cooked your roast to these specifications, turn the oven off but do not open the door or remove the roast. Three Methods: Cooking the Roast in the Oven Cooking the Roast on the Stove-Top Cooking the Roast in a Slow Cooker. Eye of round roast is a cheap, lean cut of beef with a tendency to be tough if cooked improperly. However, when cooked the right way, this cut of meat transforms into a delicious, juicy roast.
Transfer the roast to a rack in a shallow baking pan. Put the baking pan into a preheated oven. After 60 to 90 minutes of cooking, add the vegetables to the pan. Cook uncovered for a total of 2 1/2 to 3 hours, or until an instant-read meat thermometer reaches 135 degrees for medium rare.
Place two teaspoons of oil (olive or salad) into the pot and add the roast. Heat it to a medium-high temperature. 4. Add the other ingredients to the pot. Once the meat has browned, add 2 1/2 cups (567ml) of water, two beef bouillon cubes and a bay leaf to the Dutch oven until it boils. When the pot reaches a boil, cover the Dutch oven with a lid and simmer the eye round roast for 50 minutes over a low flame. Three Methods: Cooking the Roast in the Oven Cooking the Roast on the Stove-Top Cooking the Roast in a Slow Cooker. Eye of round roast is a cheap, lean cut of beef with a tendency to be tough if cooked improperly. However, when cooked the right way, this cut of meat transforms into a delicious, juicy roast.
Place the seasoned roast in your roasting pan with the fat side up. It will drip down and improve the flavor of the lean meat. 3. Multiply the weight of the roast by 30 minutes to find your cooking time. For example, a two and a half pound (1.1kg) roast will need 75 minutes or 1.25 hours. A five pound roast (2.3kg) will need 150 minutes or 2.5 hours. Remove the roast and test it with a meat thermometer when there are 30 minutes remaining in your cook time. Insert the thermometer into the thickest part of the meat. Follow these guidelines to achieve the right doneness: 1  A rare roast should read 125 to 130 degrees Fahrenheit (52 to 54 Celsius) when it is done.
The secret to tender, moist top round roast is to cook it slowly in a small amount of liquid. Spray the bottom of a pan that has a tight lid with vegetable spray. Add two tablespoons of oil. Season the roast and brown the top round, on all sides, over moderately high heat. Add the braising liquid to the meat in the pan. You will need one fourth of a cup of liquid for a four pound roast. Use beef broth, leftover wine, dark beer or water. Choose from A, B or C below for the cooking method
3. Place top round roast, fat side up, on rack in shallow roasting pan. Do not add water or cover roast. 4. Cook in in the oven for about 2 1/2 hours or until the internal temperature reaches 140°F for medium-rare or 155°F for medium. 5. Remove top round roast from oven and tent loosely with aluminum foil. 6. Let stand 15 minutes prior to carving into slices.
1 Remove from the oven and allow it to rest for 15 minutes before carving. 2  After the roast has been removed, place the roaster or dutch oven on top of the stove over medium heat. 3  Add two cups of broth, stir to combine with the drippings. 4  Simmer for 5 minutes. 5  Pour through a strainer and serve warm with the meat. 