Feeling sick after eating is a sign that your intestines or digestive system are suffering from distress. Feeling sick after eating is typically an indication that you may vomit, though this is not always the case. This is a sign that your intestines or digestive system are suffering from distress. 1 This can make your nausea worse over time and can do damage to the body. 2  Control nausea-Some foods can help you manage your nausea so it does not interfere with your digestion. 3  Sipping chamomile or peppermint tea can help soothe the digestive system after a meal.
You need to take the full course of antibiotics. Pneumonia can make you feel very sick. But after you take antibiotics, you should start to feel much better. Call your doctor if you do not start to feel better after 2 to 3 days of antibiotics. Call your doctor right away if you feel worse. There are things you can do to feel better during your treatment. 
This is because it can take several weeks after infection for your immune system to react to the TB skin test. If your reaction to the second test is negative, you probably do not have TB infection. TB blood tests TB blood tests use a blood sample to ind out if you are infected with TB bacteria. BCG vaccine does not always protect people from getting TB. If you were vaccinated with BCG, you may have a positive reaction to a TB skin test. This reaction may be due to infection with the TB bacteria. However, in some people, BCG may cause a positive skin test when they are not
The stress from anxiety can cause feelings of very genuine sickness. These feelings often mimic the way illnesses make you feel. Your stomach can feel like it's rumbling and you may even feel nauseated. Feeling sick may be a sign that you've fallen ill, but it can also be a clear sign of anxiety. While feeling sick can be the only physical symptom of anxiety, there are often others. Take my 7 minute anxiety test to get an idea of what symptoms you have are the result of anxiety and what you can do to stop it. 
If you are frequently feeling sick or nauseous after eating and/or you are vomiting, it is time to go see your health care practitioner to ensure that something grave is not going on with your health. If you are feeling sick after eating, here are some things that may be the root cause: 1  Food Poisoning – for acute feelings of nausea after eating, which may occur with vomiting and diarrhea may be due to ingesting contaminated food. If you are feeling sick after eating, this is just your body’s simple way of saying that there is something that needs to be paid attention to. Feeling sick after eating does not need to be seen as a negative signal. Feeling sick after eating is a sign that our body wants to be taken care of and listened to.
For many mums-to-be a dash to the bathroom to be sick is one of the first signs of pregnancy. During early pregnancy, up to nine out of 10 women will feel sick or be sick, at some point (Einarson et al 2013, NICE 2013) . So if you spend your early weeks of pregnancy feeling anything but blooming, you’re not alone. 
I have just taken X-ray yesterday, after that i felt really sick and want to throw up, then whatever food i ate i start a little stomach ache, not too much just a little, and everyday i feel really sick. Ive had hundreds of x-rays and never felt sick. call the place you got it done or the GP than sent you. I asked them once if all the xrays i have had is dangerous and they ensured me its like standing in front of a microwave. feel better!
Instead, sit up for a while. Avoid some foods. ■■ Don’t eat greasy, fried, or spicy foods if you feel sick after eating them. ■■ Don’t eat foods that are too hot or too cold if they make you sick to your stomach. ■■ If the smell of food bothers you, ask others to cook for you. 
Also—some birth control pills may not work as well when you take them. with medicines for TB. Both men and women: Make sure you tell your doctor if you. have HIV/AIDS or any other health problem. Sometimes taking certain. medicines together can make you have a reaction. 7Treatment for TB infectionTreatment for TB infection: TB infection and TB disease are not treated the same way. If you have TB infection, you will probably just take INH (Isoniazid) for 6 to 9 months, or you may take INH and Rifapentine (RPT) for 3 months.