Mononucleosis, often referred to as mono, is a very common viral illness. About 90% of people over 35 have been infected with it, probably during early childhood, and have antibodies to the virus in their blood. When mono strikes young children, the illness is usually so mild that it's not noticed or passes as a common cold.
Usually mono is a mild illness that goes away without treatment after several weeks. When you have mono, your symptoms may come and go, and your symptoms may change with time. 1  A sore throat is worst during the first 3 to 5 days and gradually improves over the next 7 to 10 days. 2  Fever may last 10 to 14 days. 3  Usually it is mild during the last 5 to 7 days. Usually only self-care is needed for mono. 1  Get plenty of rest. 2  Gargle with salt water or use throat lozenges to soothe your sore throat. 3  Take acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) or ibuprofen (such as Advil) to reduce fever and relieve a sore throat and headaches. 4  Avoid contact sports and heavy lifting.
Introduction. Infectious mononucleosis, or mono, is often called the kissing disease because that's one of the ways you can get it. It's caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), spread through saliva. Symptoms include: 1  Fever. 2  Sore throat. 3  Swollen glands. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) causes mono. Direct contact with saliva that's infected with the virus, mainly through kissing, can pass the virus on. You can also get mono through transfusions with infected blood products.
And, if they are exposed to the virus later in life, mono usually develops. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, mono occurs 35 to 50 percent of the time when an adolescent or young adult is infected with EBV (CDC). This infection is infamous for its symptoms of fatigue and the length of time it can last. According to the Physician’s Desk Reference, 90 to 95 percent of adults everywhere have signs of EBV in their blood because the virus is so common (PDR). This means almost every adult has had an EBV infection.
The most common symptoms of mono are a high fever, a severe sore throat, swollen lymph nodes (sometimes called swollen glands) and tonsils, and weakness and fatigue. Symptoms usually start 4 to 6 weeks after you are exposed to the virus. Usually only self-care is needed for mono. 1  Get plenty of rest. 2  Gargle with salt water or use throat lozenges to soothe your sore throat. 3  Take acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) or ibuprofen (such as Advil) to reduce fever and relieve a sore throat and headaches. 4  Avoid contact sports and heavy lifting.
Symptoms. The virus has a long incubation period and sometimes won't show symptoms until 30 to 60 days after infection. Most often symptoms appear two weeks to 60 days after you've been infected. The most common symptom is constant fatigue, a constant state of feeling tired. Overview. Mononucleosis is a respiratory virus that affects the blood cells and salivary glands (glands responsible for producing saliva). Even though anyone can get mononucleosis, most people who get the illness are between the ages of 15 and 25. Mono can keep you out of work or school for several weeks or months. Mononucleosis, sometimes called mono, is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, a member of the herpes family