If you used an OPK you probably Ovulated about 24 hours after a positive test.)After Ovulation, if the sperm were available and conception took place, then it takes about 4 - 12 days for the fertilized egg to make the journey down the fallopian tube and find a prime place to burrow into the rich lining of the uterus. Then it takes 2 to 3 days for the HCG to start being released in your urine and that takes us up to the 21st of the month. That is 7 days after you ovulated. This is the very soonest that you might be able to get a positive result.
The optimal timing would be when you see the positive ovulation test result and the next couple of days, but it is important to understand that sperm can survive for up to five days after ejaculation, so timing sex a few days before ovulation occurs can also result in pregnancy. So having sex the day of a positive ovulation test result and again for the next two days will help by allowing the sperm to travel through the appropriate channels to await the egg’s release. It’s not a precise formula though. There is a bit of leeway in when you have sex.
The majority of the pregnancy tests on the market today are able to detect an hCG range between 20 mIU and 50 mIU. The hCG in your urine, if you are pregnant, will typically be 25 mIU around 4 days prior to your period start date, which is roughly 11 days after your positive ovulation test. However, this is all dependent on when your fertilized egg actually implanted. To test at this time, the pregnancy test will need to be sensitive to at least 25 mIU. If money is no concern, then starting 8 days after your positive ovulation test, you could start taking a daily pregnancy test.
Ovulation Predictor Kit Frequently Asked Questions. Ovulation predictor kits can be purchased online at Early Pregnancy Tests. Pricing ranges from $1.10/test to $.55/test based on the number of tests you purchase, and shipping is free for orders of $15 or more. 
Hope this helps Q: How soon after ovulation can I test? A: The earliest you can get a positive result on the most sensitive pregnancy tests is seven days after ovulation. Implantation needs to occur before hCG is produced, and that generally happens between 6-12 days post ovulation, usually by 10 days after. I got a positive pregnancy test 16 days after ovulation, 8 days after ovulation i had implantation and 8 days after implantation i had a positive test.
Identification. The first key to finding out how long after ovulation you can test for pregnancy is to identify the exact date of ovulation. While the general rule is that for a typical 28-day cycle ovulation occurs on day 14, few women have this typical cycle. How long after ovulation you can test for pregnancy depends on what type of home pregnancy test is being used: the traditional tests or the higher-sensitivity early pregnancy tests.
You are fertile for up to 4 days before ovulation, because sperm can live in your fertile cervical mucus waiting for you to ovulate. It is possible, in a normal ovulation, to have a positive OPK for several days in a row. This is because LH peaks (surges) about 12-36 hours before ovulation occurs, and then dissipates. 
Positive OPK. When you have a successful ovulation test, it means you are ovulating or getting ready to ovulate right away! That means that you need to have intercourse somewhere within around 24 hours after getting that positive test to make sure that you don’t miss the time frame where you are ovulating. After you get a successful ovulation test, you are probably ready to get busy and take a pregnancy test as soon as possible. Read on for everything you need to know about how soon you can take a pregnancy test after you have a successful ovulation test! Claim Your 20 Free Pregnancy Tests – Click Here. .
Ovulation can begin as early as 12 hours after a positive ovulation test and if you were to test only every 24 hours you could be missing out on roughly 12 hours of ovulation to increase your chances of success. So testing twice daily beginning on Cycle Day 10 could help you catch the egg. 
Most women who are trying to get pregnant know that as soon as they have had a positive ovulation test they will need to have intercourse within 24 hours in order to increase their chances of becoming pregnant. To test at this time, the pregnancy test will need to be sensitive to at least 25 mIU. If money is no concern, then starting 8 days after your positive ovulation test, you could start taking a daily pregnancy test.