Neuron Structure. Your brain is made of approximately 100 billion nerve cells, called neurons. Neurons have the amazing ability to gather and transmit electrochemical signals -- think of them like the gates and wires in a computer.
Neuron Anatomy. Neurons are specialized cells of the nervous system that transmit signals throughout the body. You may already know that neurons can do many different things from sensing external and internal stimuli, to processing information and also directing muscle actions. There are two types of extensions: dendrites and axons. Dendrites are extensions of neurons that receive signals and conduct them toward the cell body. Axons are extensions of neurons that conduct signals away from the cell body to other cells.
A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another. There are, however, many exceptions to these rules: neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
Neuron have following structures Dendrites are treelike extensions at the beginning of a neuron that help increase the surface area of the cell body and are covered with synapses. These tiny protrusions receive information from other neurons and transmit electrical stimulation to the soma. The axon hillock is located and the end of the soma and controls the firing of the neuron. If the total strength of the signal exceeds the threshold limit of the axon hillock, the structure will fire a signal down the axon.
17 CHAPTER 4 STRUCTURE AND CELL BIOLOGY OF THE NEURON 4.1. THE STRUCTURE OF NEURONS A neuron is a specialized cell, found in the brain, ganglia (groups of neurons located outside the central nervous system), and some sensory organs. Neurons come in many different shapes and sizes, but they all have some common features. 4.1.1. 
A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells. At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another. There are, however, many exceptions to these rules: neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
The nervous system is made up of cells called neurons and it is through these neurons that your body communicates. Read about each of the parts that make up a neuron because this will help you better understand how neurons communicate information throughout your body. Structure. 
The soma is where the signals from the dendrites are joined and passed on. The soma and the nucleus do not play an active role in the transmission of the neural signal. Instead, these two structures serve to maintain the cell and keep the neuron functional. The axon hillock is located and the end of the soma and controls the firing of the neuron. If the total strength of the signal exceeds the threshold limit of the axon hillock, the structure will fire a signal down the axon.
Basically, dendrites, cell body (soma), and axon. In addition, the part of the soma leading to the axon is called the axon hillock, and the first part of the axon is called th … e initial segment (where the action potential or spike or firing of the neuron occurs). Of course, all the rest of the normal parts and organelles of a cell are present too. The axon hillock is located and the end of the soma and controls the firing of the neuron. If the total strength of the signal exceeds the threshold limit of the axon hillock, the structure will fire a signal down the axon.
Types of Neurons (Nerve Cells). The human body is made up of trillions of cells. Cells of the nervous system, called nerve cells or neurons, are specialized to carry messages through an electrochemical process. The human brain has approximately 100 billion neurons. To learn how neurons carry messages, read about the action potential.