They are called skeletal muscles because they are almost always found attached to the skeleton and produce movements in different parts of the skeleton. Smooth Muscles: Smooth muscles form the soft body organs like stomach, intestine, blood vessels etc. 
Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated. The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction.
Skeletal muscles are usually attached to bone by tendons composed of connective tissue. This connective tissue also ensheaths the entire muscle & is called epimysium. Skeletal muscles consist of numerous subunits or bundles called fasicles (or fascicles). 
Skeletal muscle is an example of muscle tissue, one of the four types of basic tissue. The essential characteristic of muscle tissue is that it shortens or contracts. There are three kinds of muscle tissue, skeletal, cardiac and smooth. At the attachment points of the muscle all the connective tissue elements combine to form the connective tissue attachment of the muscle to bone or other tissue. If this attachment is round and cord-like it is called a tendon. If the attachment is broad and sheet-like it is called an aponeurosis.
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction.
Some skeletal muscles are broad in shape and some narrow. In some muscles the fibers are parallel to the long axis of the muscle; in some they converge to a narrow attachment; and in some they are oblique. Each skeletal muscle fiber is a single cylindrical muscle cell. An individual skeletal muscle may be made up of hundreds, or even thousands, of muscle fibers bundled together and wrapped in a connective tissue covering. Each muscle is surrounded by a connective tissue sheath called the epimysium. Fascia, connective tissue outside the epimysium, surrounds and separates the muscles. 
Skeletal-muscle Basics. Skeletal muscle is also called striated muscle, because when it is viewed under polarized light or stained with an indicator, you can see alternating stripes of light and dark. Skeletal muscle has a complex structure that is essential to how it contracts. 
Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. It is composed of fibers that look like a mixture of dark and light bands bundled together that run along the bone. There are three different types of muscle tissue within the body. Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. Skeletal muscle attaches to the bones. At the macroscopic level, the skeletal muscles are composed of a variety of layers. Working out strengthens skeletal muscles, making them more visibl