Porosity. Porosity of a rock is a measure of its ability to hold a fluid. Mathematically, porosity is the open space in a rock divided by the total rock volume (solid + space or holes). Porosity is normally expressed as a pecentage of the total rock which is taken up by pore space. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Porosity or void fraction is a measure of the void (i.e., empty) spaces in a material, and is a fraction of the volume of voids over the total volume, between 0 and 1, or as a percentage between 0 and 100%. There are many ways to test porosity in a substance or part, such as industrial CT scanning. 
Sandstone pore systems. Four basic porosity types can be recognized in sandstones: (1) intergranular (primary), (2) microporosity, (3) dissolution (secondary), and (4) fracture (Figure 2). Intergranular porosity exists as space between detrital grains. 
secondary porosity. (geology). The interstices that appear in a rock formation after it has formed, because of dissolution or stress distortion taking place naturally or artificially as a result of the effect of acid treatment or the injection of coarse sand. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Porosity. From SubSurfWiki. Porosity is a measure of the volume of void space in a rock as a fraction of the total volume of the rock. In geology, this void space is always filled with a fluid such as water or hydrocarbon
Microscopic structure of shale, sandstone, and limestone with water in pore spaces. Note differences in scale among views of each rock type. 4. Describe how the shape and number of pore spaces affect permeability of these three rock types. 
Re: What's the difference between secondary & primary porosi. Thu Feb 24, 2011 5:49 pm. Well, to understand that you must know that there are three types of morphologies to the pore spaces: Caternary, Cul-de-sac and Closed pore. 
primary porosity. (geology). Natural porosity in petroleum reservoir sands or rocks. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Diagenesis /ˌdaɪəˈdʒɛnəsɪs/ is the change of sediments or existing sedimentary rocks into a different sedimentary rock during and after rock formation (lithification), at temperatures and pressures less than that required for the formation of metamorphic rocks. It does not include changes from weathering. 
secondary porosity The forms of porosity which develop in a rock during and after consolidation, by the selective dissolution or alteration of mineral grains and cements, or by the fracturing of the rock by tectonic processes (see TECTONISM). See CHOQUETTE AND PRAY CLASSIFICATION. Cite this article. 