1 Human Uses of Tropical Rainforests. 2  Aim: To discover how humans exploit this resource and the reasons behind it. 3  2. 4  3. 1 1. 2  Human Uses of Tropical Rainforests. 3  Aim: To discover how humans exploit this resource and the reasons behind it. 4  2. 5  3. 6  4. 7  5. 8  How it is being destroyed. 9  Traditional Farming ~ DOES NOT destroy the forest unless the population grows
A tropical rainforest is a biome type that occurs roughly within the latitudes 28 degrees north or south of the equator (in the equatorial zone between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn). 
Rainforest Plantlife savetherainforest,org. Animal Species: In the biome of a tropical rainforest, there is a great diversity of animal species in the groups of reptiles, mammals, invertebrates,and birds. Some of them are most commonly known as jaguars, toucans, parrots, gorillas, and tarantulas.
Tropical forests encompass not only mist enshrouded rainforests but also remote cloud forests, endangered dry forests and pine savannas. Tropical forests are not a single ecosystem, but millions of unique ecosystems that are home to over half of the world's plant and animal species. Exotic orchids, stealthy jaguars, giant armadillos, colorful songbirds, noisy monkeys and reclusive snakes are but some of the creatures that inhabit tropical forests -- along with millions of human beings who have relied on forest fruits, fibers, grains, medicines, cloths, resins and pigments for millennia.
Background - 3 February, 2011. Greenpeace is campaigning for an end to all deforestation of tropical rainforests by 2020 - a step that is critical to protecting the global climate, biodiversity and forest dependent communities. Greenpeace activists expose a forest crime scene in the Amazon, Brazil, in 2005. To end deforestation globally, the international community must urgently agree on a mechanism to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation in developing countries-where most of the world's remaining ancient forests are found.
People of the Tropical Rain Forests. Tropical rain forests are home to millions of people. Some inhabitants are descendants of people who have lived in the forest for hundreds or even thousands of years. Others are very recent arrivals.
Conservation and sustainable use of tropical rainforests of Latin America and the Caribbean This document was prepared by the Inter-Agency Technical Committee on the basis of the mandates of the Eleventh Meeting of the Forum of Ministers of the Environment of Latin America and the Caribbean (Lima, Peru, March 1998). 
The tropical rainforest biome is a biome where it is wet and warm and it contains a variety of plants and other organisms. Almost all Tropical rainforess fall between the tropic of cancer and the tropic of capricorn. Animal Species: In the biome of a tropical rainforest, there is a great diversity of animal species in the groups of reptiles, mammals, invertebrates,and birds. Some of them are most commonly known as jaguars, toucans, parrots, gorillas, and tarantulas.