The goal is to completely eliminate it by 2015. So when you see PFOA free in the marketing message of a piece of cookware, it simply means that the chemical PFOA was not used in the manufacturing process of the non-stick coating, which is usually PTFE or a related plastic compound. According to T-Fal, PFOA is burned off during the process and only and insignificant amount remains in the finished product. Previously, all non-stick coating manufacturers used PFOA in the manufacture of non-stick.
PFOA is an important chemical, crucial to the manufacture of materials used to make products that span the entire U.S. economy, and, in this case, fluoropolymers. PFOA, also known as APFO and C-8, stands for “perfluorooctanoic acid”. It is a surfactant and is a polymerization aid used in very small quantities to help make fluoropolymer dispersions. In the past, all nonstick-coating manufacturers used water-based fluoropolymer (nonstick) dispersions that contained some level of PFOA. Today, most reputable nonstick-coating manufacturers are producing coatings made without PFOA. Some formulations are upon request, so check with your coating supplier for accuracy.
Most people are familiar with it as a non-stick coating surface for pans and other cookware. It is also used in many other products, such as fabric protectors. Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), also known as C8, is another man-made chemical. It is used in the process of making Teflon and similar chemicals (known as fluorotelomers), although it is burned off during the process and is not present in significant amounts in the final products. While PFOA is used in making Teflon, it is not present (or is present in extremely small amounts) in Teflon-coated products. Because the routes by which people may be exposed to PFOA are not known, it is unclear what steps people might take to reduce their exposure. Currently, the EPA states: Consumer products made with fluoropolymers and fluorinated telomers, such as Teflon and other trademark products, are not PFOA
PFOA has widespread applications. In 1976, PFOA was reported as a water and oil repellent in fabrics and leather and in the production of floor waxes and waxed papers ; however, it is believed that paper is no longer treated with perfluorinated compounds, but with fluorotelomers with less than 0.1% PFOA. To yield PFOA, the perfluorinated acid fluoride is hydrolyzed. The PFOA formed by this method is a mixture of straight chain (78%), terminally branched (13%), and internally branched (9%) molecules, as ECF rearranges the carbon tail of the acid chloride. ECF also results in production wastes.
It is NOT the same as PTFE. According to T-Fal, PFOA is burned off during the process and only and insignificant amount remains in the finished product. Previously, all non-stick coating manufacturers used PFOA in the manufacture of non-stick.
PFOA persists indefinitely in the environment. It is a toxicant and carcinogen in animals. PFOA has been detected in the blood of more than 98% of the general US population in the low and sub-parts per billion range, and levels are higher in chemical plant employees and surrounding subpopulations. How general populations are exposed to PFOA is not completely understood. To yield PFOA, the perfluorinated acid fluoride is hydrolyzed. The PFOA formed by this method is a mixture of straight chain (78%), terminally branched (13%), and internally branched (9%) molecules, as ECF rearranges the carbon tail of the acid chloride. ECF also results in production wastes.
1 1 PFOA Introduction There have been a lot of confusing reports in the media regarding PFOA, an ingredient used in the manufacture of various fluoropolymers, which are ultimately used in many products, including nonstick coatings. The result: confusion, concern, and distortion of the facts. PFOA is not the same as PTFE.  The small amounts of PFOA used in the manufacturing process are destroyed in the curing process of the nonstick coating.  All studies of nonstick coatings for housewares conducted under normal cooking conditions to date have had the same results: there is no detectable PFOA.
PFOA is short for perfluorooctanoic acid (also called C8), a synthetic chemical compound that is used, along with PTFE, to manufacture certain fluoropolymer-and telomer-based consumer products, including nonstick pan coatings like Teflon. If your'e still concerned about PFOA, seek out some of the many nonstick cookware brands made without the use of PFOA, including Bialetti Aeternum, Swiss Diamond, GreenPan and Cuisinart GreenGourmet. (Learn more about eco-friendly nonstick cookware). Read more information from the EPA on PFOA.