Both the muon and the tau, like the electron, have accompanying neutrinos, which are called the muon-neutrino and tau-neutrino. The three neutrino types appear to be distinct: For instance, when muon-neutrinos interact with a target, they will always produce muons, and never taus or electrons. In particle interactions, although electrons and electron-neutrinos can be created and destroyed, the sum of the number of electrons and electron-neutrinos is conserved. This fact leads to dividing the leptons into three families, each with a charged lepton and its accompanying neutrino.
A neutrino is a very small piece of matter. It's so small that is wasn't even discovered until 1956. There are three 'flavors' of neutrinos: electron, muon and tau. Most people are familiar with three particles of matter: electron, neutron and proton. Back in 4th grade science class you learned all about what makes up an atom. There are many more parts than just those three, however
A neutrino is a sub atom ic particle with no electric charge. Neutrinos are known for their ability to propagate over considerable distances through solid matter almost unaffected. Neutrinos were originally thought to have no mass. Today they are believed to have mass, but it is exceedingly small, only a tiny fraction of the mass of a proton.
Neutrino oscillation is a quantum mechanical phenomenon whereby a neutrino created with a specific lepton flavour (electron, muon, or tau) can later be measured to have a different flavour. The probability of measuring a particular flavour for a neutrino varies periodically as it propagates through space. 
Neutrinos oscillate between different flavors in flight. That is, an electron neutrino produced in a beta decay reaction may arrive in a detector as a muon or tau neutrino. This oscillation requires that the different neutrino flavors have different masses, although these masses have been shown to be tiny. The neutrino (meaning little neutral one in Italian) is denoted by the Greek letter ν (nu). Neutrinos have mass, but tiny even compared to other subatomic particles.
The neutrino and its friends Neutrinos are one of the fundamental particles which make up the universe. They are also one of the least understood. Neutrinos are similar to the more familiar electron, with one crucial difference: neutrinos do not carry electric charge.
A neutrino (/nuːˈtriːnoʊ/ or /njuːˈtriːnoʊ/ , in Italian [nɛuˈtrino]) is an electrically neutral elementary particle with half-integer spin. The neutrino (meaning little neutral one in Italian) is denoted by the Greek letter ν (nu). Neutrinos have mass, but tiny even compared to other subatomic particles.
A neutrino is a subatomic particle that is very similar to an electron, but has no electrical charge and a very small mass, which might even be zero. Neutrinos are one of the most abundant particles in the universe. Because they have very little interaction with matter, however, they are incredibly difficult to detect. In particle interactions, although electrons and electron-neutrinos can be created and destroyed, the sum of the number of electrons and electron-neutrinos is conserved. This fact leads to dividing the leptons into three families, each with a charged lepton and its accompanying neutrino.
Scientists represent neutrinos with the Greek letter nu, or v. Neutrinos are among the most abundant particles in the universe, a billion times more abundant than the particles that make up stars, planets and people. Unimaginably large numbers of neutrinos from the first moments of the universe are still present today. Though a trillion naturally occurring neutrinos from the sun and other bodies in the galaxy pass through us each second, they interact so rarely with other particles that they are very difficult to detect.
Neutrinos. Our universe is permeated with neutrinos — nearly massless, neutral particles that interact so rarely with other matter that trillions of them pass through our bodies each second without leaving a trace. 