Malin Akerman Actress, Watchmen Malin was born in Stockholm, Sweden and raised in Toronto, Canada. Her mother, Pia (Sundstroem), sundström is a model and aerobics, instructor and her, Father Åkerman, akerman åkerman is an. Insurance broker they Moved to toronto when she was. Age 2 at, age 5 she began APPEARING in. tv commercials Mara Wilson Actress, Matilda Mara Elizabeth Wilson was born on Friday, July 24th, 1987 in Los Angeles, California. She is the oldest daughter of Michael and Suzie Wilson with three elder brothers-Danny (b. 1979), Jon (b. 1981) and Joel (b.1983) - and a younger sister Anna (b. 1993).
Melanie Deanne Paxson (nee Née; moore Born september, 26) 1972 is An american. Actress she is known for her roles As jaclyn In, Cupid Sara brennan In Happy family and As julie In notes from The. Underbelly paxson also appeared in a number Of gladware television commercials in the early. 2000s Melanie Deanne Paxson (nee Née; moore Born september, 26) 1972 is An american. Actress she is known for her roles As jaclyn In, Cupid Sara brennan In Happy family and As julie In notes from The. underbelly
Nadia is an L.A.-based actress, who has appeared on several TV shows. See more info on Nadia’s IMDb profile, Facebook, and Instagram pages. You can see Nadia at 0:40 in the commercial. Tags: hot girl ad advert advertising advertisement commercial who is that hot ad girl? withag name brianne howey sprint too rich to care layover cut your bill omg why?!?
Here is Jennifer DeFilippo, one of the actresses in the ad. She has an IMDB page and a blog: http://jenniferdefilippo.blogspot.com/ Check it out! Here is the other actress, Katherine Von Till. He has an IMDB page and a few comedy reels on YouTube, check him out! Here is a hilarious, new ad by Oikos. Two gals are eating yogurt, one of the husbands walks in, but when the girls keeping eating the yogurt they start seeing John Stamos.
Elisabeth Shue Actress, Back to the Future Part II Elisabeth Shue was born in Wilmington, Delaware, to Anne Brewster (Wells), who worked for the Chemical Banking Corporation, and James William Shue, a lawyer and real estate developer. Mara Wilson Actress, Matilda Mara Elizabeth Wilson was born on Friday, July 24th, 1987 in Los Angeles, California. She is the oldest daughter of Michael and Suzie Wilson with three elder brothers-Danny (b. 1979), Jon (b. 1981) and Joel (b.1983) - and a younger sister Anna (b. 1993).
Keira Knightley Actress, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl Keira Christina Knightley was born in the South West Greater London suburb of Richmond on March 26th 1985. She is the daughter of actor Will Knightley and actress turned playwright Sharman Macdonald. Mara Wilson Actress, Matilda Mara Elizabeth Wilson was born on Friday, July 24th, 1987 in Los Angeles, California. She is the oldest daughter of Michael and Suzie Wilson with three elder brothers-Danny (b. 1979), Jon (b. 1981) and Joel (b.1983) - and a younger sister Anna (b. 1993).
But the actress -- who's appeared on TV shows including Chuck and The Big Bang Theory -- has been popping up in enough ads for other marketers that folks at home might start to get that weird Hey, I've see her before feeling. She's the woman behind the AT&T counter in Sprint's recent ad starring David Beckham. Screen shot for the ad. The actor at the table is the same actor in the Drive Time Commercial, see below. If you who this is, let me know. DriveTime “Episode IV: Next Stop Freedom” Here is the Moonshine BBQ ad:
Vanessa Hudgens Actress, Spring Breakers Vanessa was born in Salinas, California. Her family moved to San Diego whilst she was still a toddler. She has a younger sister, Stella Hudgens, who is also an actress. Her mother, Gina (Guangco), an officer worker, is from the Philippines. Mara Wilson Actress, Matilda Mara Elizabeth Wilson was born on Friday, July 24th, 1987 in Los Angeles, California. She is the oldest daughter of Michael and Suzie Wilson with three elder brothers-Danny (b. 1979), Jon (b. 1981) and Joel (b.1983) - and a younger sister Anna (b. 1993).
Rebecca is an LA actress, who has appeared in many commercials. She can be also seen in current commercials for Cascade and for Diet Dr. Pepper. A2: Ingrid Haas (Heinz Mustard). Ingrid is a comedic actress, that has been on WITHAG several times before. Here is Ingrid’s IMDb profile, Instagram page, and her commercial work. Check out more of this funny ad campaign at Heinz’s YouTube page. Tags: hot girl ad advert advertising advertisement commercial who is that hot ad girl? withag name kelly frye buick encore wrong car i don't see a buick wow! redhead buicks are nice now deal with it.
Jessica is a Los Angeles actress, who has appeared on several TV shows and commercials. Here are Jessica’s IMDb profile, Twtter, and Instagram pages. Tags: hot girl ad advert advertising advertisement commercial who is that hot ad girl? withag name kelly frye buick encore wrong car i don't see a buick wow! redhead buicks are nice now deal with it.