Foramina are openings. Neural foramina patent bilaterally just means that the openings in the spine are open, and allow the nerves to pass through normally... Answer Foramina is the plural form of foramen, and a foramen is just a hole. 
Re: neural foramina. It is good-the neural foramins are where the nerve roots pass through and it means they are in good condition and wide enough. 
By Michael Perry, M.D. Foraminal encroachment means that degeneration in the spinal column has caused an obstruction of the foramina, which are the open spaces on either side of the vertebrae through which spinal nerves pass on their way to other parts of the body. 
Foramina are openings. Neural foramina patent bilaterally just means that the openings in the spine are open, and allow the nerves to pass through normally... Making the world better, one answer at a time. iT MEANS THAT THE OPENINGS WHERE THE NERVES COME THROUGH THE VERTIFRAL SPACES ORE OPEN.....THERE IS NO COMPRESSION OF THOSE NERVES CAUSED AT THAT POINT....
What does capacious neural foramina mean? The Neural Formaina are holes that are formed between each joint of  the spinal column through which the spinal nerves that branch off  the spinal cord pass. These nerves go … to your arms, legs, torso and  various organs, carrying messages to and from the brain and body. 1 The USPTO has put in place a number of Resource 2  …. What Patents Pending Means There are many inventors today who are in the process of inventing a product-like a new game or gadget. 3  Creating an invention is exciting.
Neural Foraminal Stenosis Definition. Neural foraminal stenosis refers to compression of a spinal nerve as it leaves the spinal canal through the foramen (the opening between the vertebrae through which spinal nerve roots travel and exit to other parts of the body). 
The neural foramen is the hole on the side of the spine where the nerve root exits off of the sp … inal cord. These foramen are on both sides and exist at each level. Some kind of neck injury, strain, or poor posture could have led to this one level having built up degeneration and have narrowed it. Making the world better, one answer at a time. iT MEANS THAT THE OPENINGS WHERE THE NERVES COME THROUGH THE VERTIFRAL SPACES ORE OPEN.....THERE IS NO COMPRESSION OF THOSE NERVES CAUSED AT THAT POINT....
The neural foramen is the opening between every two vertebrae where the nerve roots exit the spine. The nerve roots travel through the foramen to reach the rest of your body. There are two neural foramina between each pair of vertebrae-one on each side. Without the foramen, nerve signals could not travel to and from the brain to the rest of your body. Without nerve signals, your body would not be able to function. If they are widely patent, that means that there is no impingement, collapse, bulging, etc. where the nerve roots exit the spine
1 56% - Cervical spine oblique view shows the neural foramina are widely patent bilaterally. what does this mean? 2  22% - Can a cervical spine go from a herniated disc to those discs collapse and the spine lose its natural curve in 6-8 months?this is from a mva over 2yrs? 
Foramina are openings. Neural foramina patent bilaterally just means that the openings in the spine are open, and allow the nerves to pass through normally... 1 The USPTO has put in place a number of Resource 2  …. What Patents Pending Means There are many inventors today who are in the process of inventing a product-like a new game or gadget. 3  Creating an invention is exciting.