Abel Tasman is important to Australia because he was the first European to discover Tasmania. Abel Janszoon Tasman was a Dutch seafarer and explorer born in 1603 in the villag … e of Lutjegast, Netherlands. Abel Janszoon Tasman was a Dutch seafarer and explorer. He joined the Dutch East India Company in 1634, and soon after this, he was ordered to explore the south-east waters i … n order to find a new sea trade route to Chile in South America.
Abel Jans Tasman was born in 1603 in Lutjegast in what is now the province of Groningen, the Netherlands. The oldest available source mentioning him dates 27 December 1631 when, as a widower living in Amsterdam, he became engaged to marry 21-year-old Jannetje Tjaers from the Jordaan district of the city. The original Tasman Map is held in the collection of the State Library of New South Wales. The map shows a general outline of parts of the coastline of Australia. In the foyer of the Mitchell wing at the State Library, the map is reproduced in a marble floor.
Executive summary: Discovered Tasmania and New Zealand. The greatest of Dutch navigators, the discoverer of Tasmania, New Zealand, the Tonga and the Fiji Islands, and the first circumnavigator of Australia, was born at Lutjegast in Groningen, about 1603. In 1634 we first meet with him in the East Indies, sailing from Batavia (February 18) to Amboyna. From there Tasman steered north and west, reaching on the 6th of February the eastern part of the Fiji archipelago, which he called Prince William's Islands and Heemskerk's Shoals; on the 22nd of March he sighted the islands of Ontong Java.
Abel Tasman was a sea explorer who made several significant discoveries. Tasman was an employee of the Dutch East India Company. He is most famous for discovering the island … s of Tasmania (which he named Van Diemen's Land) and New Zealand. Abel Janszoon Tasman was a Dutch seafarer and explorer. He joined the Dutch East India Company in 1634, and soon after this, he was ordered to explore the south-east waters i … n order to find a new sea trade route to Chile in South America.
First Pacific voyage. Abel Tasman was born in 1603 in Lutjegast in what is now the province of Groningen, the Netherlands. In 1633, Tasman went to Batavia in service of the VOC; four years later he was back in Amsterdam. Tasman signed on for another ten years and took his wife along to Batavia. In 1639 Tasman was sent as second in command of an exploring expedition in the north Pacific under Matthijs Quast. His fleet included the ships Engel and Gracht and reached Fort Zeelandia (Dutch Formosa) and Deshima.
Some facts on Abel Tasman include that he was born in Lutjegast,  Netherlands. He was an explorer and a merchant, and he spent a lot  of time out at sea. He was also the fir … st person from Europe to  discover New Zealand. 2 people found this useful. Abel Janszoon Tasman was a Dutch seafarer and explorer. He joined the Dutch East India Company in 1634, and soon after this, he was ordered to explore the south-east waters i … n order to find a new sea trade route to Chile in South America.
The name of the country. New Zealand was named, probably by a Dutch cartographer, some time after the Dutch explorer Abel Tasman made the first recorded European landfall in 1642. Australia was then known as New Holland, and so New Zealand was named after Zeeland, the other main Netherlands province. 
Abel Janszoon Tasman (. [ˈɑbəl ˈjɑnsoːn ˈtɑsmɑn] ; 1603 – 10 October 1659) was a Dutch seafarer, explorer, and merchant, best known for his voyages of 1642 and 1644 in the service of the Dutch East India Company (VOC). The original Tasman Map is held in the collection of the State Library of New South Wales. The map shows a general outline of parts of the coastline of Australia. In the foyer of the Mitchell wing at the State Library, the map is reproduced in a marble floor.