Facts, figures, conversions and physics are my interests on Answers.com. The closest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is about 29 driving miles from the center of Ocean City. The closest major airport to Panama City, Florida is Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport (ECP / KECP). This airport is in Panama City Beach, Florida and is about 1 … 5 miles from the center of Panama City, FL.
Nearest major airport to West Ocean City, Maryland: The closest major airport to West Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is 28 miles from the center of West Ocean City, MD. If you're looking for domestic flights to SBY, check the airlines that fly to SBY. 
Nearest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland: The closest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is 29 miles from the center of Ocean City, MD. If you're looking for domestic flights to SBY, check the airlines that fly to SBY. Local airports near Ocean City, MD. 5 miles: Ocean City, MD (OCE / KOXB / OXB) Ocean City Municipal Airport. 30 miles: Rehoboth, DE (REH) Rehoboth Aircrafters. 35 miles: Georgetown, DE (GED / KGED) Sussex County Airport.
The Salisbury-Ocean City: Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY) is the only Federal Aviation Administration certificated air carrier airport on the entire Delmarva (Delaware-Maryland-Virginia) Peninsula. 
Facts, figures, conversions and physics are my interests on Answers.com. The closest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is about 29 driving miles from the center of Ocean City, MD. The closest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is about 29 drivin … g miles from the center of Ocean City. + 12 others found this useful. Silvia Romans.
410-548-4827 | 5485 Airport Terminal Road Unit A, Salisbury, Maryland. The Salisbury-Ocean City: Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY) is the only Federal Aviation Administration certificated air carrier airport on the entire Delmarva (Delaware-Maryland-Virginia) Peninsula. 
The closest airport is Salisbury Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY). Distance from Salisbury Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport to Ocean City is 37,1 kilometers (23,1 miles). Salisbury Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport is located approximately 8,1 kilometers (5,0 miles) east of Salisbury and about 69,0 kilometers (42,9 miles) southeast of Easton.
The closest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is about 29 drivin … g miles from the center of Ocean City, MD. The closest major airport to Panama City, Florida is Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport (ECP / KECP). This airport is in Panama City Beach, Florida and is about 1 … 5 miles from the center of Panama City, FL.