Flashback or flashbacks may refer to: 1  Flashback (narrative) , in literature and dramatic media, an interjected scene or point that takes the narrative back in time from the current point. 2  Flashback episode, an episode of a television series that consists primarily of excerpts from previous episodes. 
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: flashback (noun). a transition (in literary or theatrical works or films) to an earlier event or scene that interrupts the normal chronological development of the story. flashback (noun). an unexpected but vivid recurrence of a past experience (especially a recurrence of the effects of an hallucinogenic drug taken much earlier).
Definition of a Flashback. In literature, a flashback is an occurrence in which a character remembers an earlier event that happened before the current point of the story.
Flashback. Definition: Flashback is a literary device wherein the author depicts the occurrence of specific events to the reader, which have taken place before the present time the narration is following, or events that have happened before the events that are currently unfolding in the story. A flashback is a way of showing a character's vivid memory in literature or film. Sometimes when people have vivid memories, they call them flashbacks, but flashback technically refers to a way a writer can show the reader or watcher that a character is having a vivid memory.
If so, this is what you call a flashback. A flashback is defined as an interruption in the present of a vivid memory set in the past. There are a variety of things that can cause a flashback to occur, which include songs, food, people, places, or similar events to those in the past. 
(April 2014). A flashback, or involuntary recurrent memory, is a psychological phenomenon in which an individual has a sudden, usually powerful, re-experiencing of a past experience or elements of a past experience. These experiences can be happy, sad, exciting, or any other emotion one can consider. 
Full Definition of FLASHBACK. 1. : a recession of flame to an unwanted position (as into a blowpipe). 2. a: interruption of chronological sequence (as in a film or literary work) by interjection of events of earlier occurrence; also: an instance of flashback b: a past incident recurring vividly in the mind. : a part of a story or movie that describes or shows something that happened in the past. : a strong memory of a past event that comes suddenly into a person's mind.
Defining flashback, Merriam Webster says that it is: “an interruption of the chronological sequence (as of a film or literary work) of an event of earlier occurrence”. Flashbacks are interruptions that writers do to insert past events in order to provide background or context to the current events of a narrative. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a flashback is when an earlier moment is portrayed in a story or when a past experience is remembered. An example of a flashback is suddenly remembering a scene from the war