Habitual users (everyday smokers) will have it stay in their system for up to 30 days (or sometimes longer) But one hit it should be gone in a couple of days. 1-2 I'd say. It also depends on how fast your metabolism is and how sensitive the test is on whether or not the levels of THC in your system are detectable. It also depends on how long and how frequently you've smoked. If it was one hit, one time only and ever, should be out of your system for a urine test within a couple weeks, if not days. If you're asking how long you stay high off one hit...depends on the weed and how often you smoke. But, usually not very long
Best Answer: If that was your only time you should pass and here is why. Marijuana has a half-life in your system. How long it takes to leave your system depends on how much you smoke. But the time maxes out at around 45 days. One smoking session for someone with a clean system takes about 3-4 days to be clean. 
Best Answer: Marijuana can stay in your system anywhere from 3 days to 90 days, depending on a variety of factors, the main one being how much THC – the drug component in marijuana – your body stores. THC is fat-soluble, meaning a heavier person will store more of it than a thin person. It also depends on how long and how frequently you've smoked. If it was one hit, one time only and ever, should be out of your system for a urine test within a couple weeks, if not days. If you're asking how long you stay high off one hit...depends on the weed and how often you smoke. But, usually not very long
http://boards.cannabis.com/cannabis-com-lounge/30861-how-long-does-one-hit-weed-stay-your-system.html. No it doesn't. the Cannabinoids stay in your body for up to a month. If you took a single hit a week ago it may still be in your body but might not even be detectable. Marijuana can stay in the system for as little as 36 hours, but as long as 3 months depending on your body's metabolism. ChaCha! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-one-hit-of-weed-stay-in-your-system ].
One hit of weed isn't going to stay in your system for more then 24-48 hours if your not smoking anything else at all. I've have many many drug test and passed several wondering how i did when i had smoked. but i also drank a gallon of water a day after that. 
So, we call this approximate calculation as half life. If you have smoked marijuana then the drug will stay for 3 to 30 days. This is normal for the common drugs. But in the case of marijuana, this can be detected even after a month in Urine drug test marijuana. Marijuana will stay in your system for 10 days if you have been smoking occasionally. If it is smoked on regular basis it will be there up to 45 days and if you smoke constant pace then it will be in the system for as long as 90 days. http://clnk.me/1yc0I. 
• and the Frequency of Use. The most popular drug test is a urine test. THC will test positive in a urine drug test within 2-5 hours of use. If you are a one time user or no more than a couple of times per month, you may test positive for 1-6 days after your last use. A moderate or weekly user may test positive for 7-13 days after their last use. 
Best Answer: If it was a one time toke then 3-4 days and here is why. Marijuana has a half-life in your system. How long it takes to leave your system depends on how much you smoke. But the time maxes out at around 45 days. One smoking session for someone with a clean system takes about 3-4 days to be clean. Smoke 2 days later and then have to wait about a week, and so on. 