Symbolic Ethnicity. No Works Cited. Length: 1011 words (2.9 double-spaced pages). Rating: Purple. Price: $19.95. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -. Symbolic ethnicity is a term coined by Herbert Gans. It refers to ethnicity that is individualistic in nature and without real social cost for the individual. These symbolic identifications are essentially leisure time activities, rooted in nuclear family traditions reinforced by voluntary enjoyable aspects of being ethnic (Gans 424-429). 
The phenomenon of symbolic ethnicity is largely attributed to European Americans, because Black, Hispanic, Asian and Indian Americans do not have the option of a symbolic ethnicity at present in the United States and for them in which ethnicity does not matter for white Americans, it does matter for non-whites.. The definition of ethnicity, as formed by cinema, follows this symbolic pattern. In fact, in mos cinema that deal with ethnic integration, ethnic lifestyle is inseparable from its symbolic codes. Ethnic lifestyle is not an associative or collective means of existence, but a symbolic code-an icon.
1 Ethnicity is a socially defined category based on common language, religion, nationality, history, or another cultural factor. 2  Sociologists see race and ethnicity as social constructions because they are not rooted in biological differences, they change over time, and they never have firm boundaries. 1 Race is a socially defined category, based on real or perceived biological differences between groups of people. 2 
Symbolic ethnicity is celebrating a culture of your ancestors. For example, Irish-Americans celebrate St. Patrick's Day. I think it is appealing to all cultures. Most people just celebrate St. Patrick's Day just cause its out of the norm. Symbolic ethnicity is appealing to white ethnics because it provides a sense of individuality and community. Celebrating St. Patricks Day lets us step outside of our culture and also wear green!
VOLUNTARY VERSUS INVOLUNTARY ETHNICITY. BIBLIOGRAPHY. The concept of symbolic ethnicity is most closely associated with the pioneering work of the sociologist Herbert Gans, who attempted to account for the simultaneous decline and resurgence of ethnic identification in the United States after World War II. Gans defined symbolic ethnicity as “a nostalgic allegiance to the culture of the immigrant generation, or that of the old country; a love for and a pride in a tradition that can be felt without having to be incorporated in everyday behavior” (1979, p. 9).
Ethnicity then becomes a symbolic identity more than a lifestyle. The definition of ethnicity, as formed by cinema, follows this symbolic pattern. In fact, in mos cinema that deal with ethnic integration, ethnic lifestyle is inseparable from its symbolic codes. Ethnic lifestyle is not an associative or collective means of existence, but a symbolic code-an icon.
This celebration is an example of symbolic ethnicity, characterized by a need to hold on to the culture of the immigrant generation, coupled with a pragmatic desire not to let this culture interfere with everyday life. Symbolic ethnicity is appealing to white ethnics because it provides a sense of individuality and community. Celebrating St. Patricks Day lets us step outside of our culture and also wear green!
And every culture has a holiday they celebrate! Symbolic ethnicity, in essence, is people, specifically white Americans, who feel that they can be a part of something special and feel different. Irish Americans display pride for their ancestry on St. Patrick's Day. Symbolic ethnicity is appealing to white ethnics because it provides a sense of individuality and community. Celebrating St. Patricks Day lets us step outside of our culture and also wear green!
Symbolic ethnicity is a term coined by German-born American sociologist Herbert J. Gans in 1979. The definition of ethnicity, as formed by cinema, follows this symbolic pattern. In fact, in mos cinema that deal with ethnic integration, ethnic lifestyle is inseparable from its symbolic codes. Ethnic lifestyle is not an associative or collective means of existence, but a symbolic code-an icon.
Situational and symbolic ethnicity provide two ways for people to participate in their ethnic heritage while still maintaining membership in the broader, mainstream culture. To say that ethnicity is subjective is not to say that it is unaffected by what others say or do. Indeed, outsiders' conceptions of us may be a major influence on us leading to our own self-consciousness as an ethnic population. Others may assign to us an ethnic identity, but what they establish is an ethnic category.