What Is An Albatraoz. As a pest control company that specialise in mouse removal and mice eradication we felt that we had to inform you, as a matter of duty, that sadly that little mouse will not give the *#!* whether you are an Albatraoz or not and regardless if you know what an Albatraoz is or not. Rodents such as mice and rats will directly the attack the albatross, it’s eggs or it’s chicks while some albatross chicks will even be attacked and eaten alive by the common house mice. So when it comes to *#!*ing that little mouse it’s more of a case of the little mouse *#!*ing the albatross.
Report Abuse. You are wrong. The swedish hip hop group was indeed founded in 2012. But in the tv series Maried with children season 2, episode 10 or something like that, All Bundy says to his wife You're an albatraoz.This tv series is very old, i first watched it in the early 2000's. They are a Swedish Electro-Pop band and the lines “I’m an Albatraoz” refer to being part of the band/the fanbase/movement around the band rather than to a large sea bird.
Albatraoz is a Swedish electro-hip hop group from Boras, borås formed in. 2012 The group went professional when they signed with Sony Music. On August 2, 2013, their debut single was released, the self-titled Albatraoz. The song reached thirty-six in Swedish Singles Chart and remained nineteen weeks on the chart.
In 2012 they formed the group as a hobby and recorded a demo produced by Aron. The group went professional when they signed with Sony Music. On August 2, 2013, their debut single was released, the self-titled Albatraoz. The song reached thirty-six in Swedish Singles Chart and remained nineteen weeks on the chart.
In January 2014 the song reached 8.5 million plays on Spotify and the group toured to promote the song. On April 18, 2014 the group released their second single, Arriba, but the song didn't peak in the charts. The group went professional when they signed with Sony Music. On August 2, 2013, their debut single was released, the self-titled Albatraoz. The song reached thirty-six in Swedish Singles Chart and remained nineteen weeks on the chart.
Kolla in Boraskillarna boråskillarna som under sommaren gjort succe succé med den Sjaelvbetitlade, självbetitlade hitlaten hitlåten albatraoz daer därDu ser dem goera göra #. Albakaoz Av en helg i boras borås besoek. besök://facebooksidan.foer.för/AlbatraozOff... Fa: få://de.senaste.uppdateringarna/https/5wOlRs... facebook com albatraozoff spotify http open spotify com artist 5wolrs Kolla in Boraskillarna boråskillarna som under sommaren gjort succe succé med den Sjaelvbetitlade, självbetitlade hitlaten hitlåten albatraoz daer därDu ser dem goera göra #. albakaoz a
I'm an Albatraoz  is a 2014 single by Swedish DJ and record producer AronChupa featuring uncredited vocals from Nora Ekberg, his sister. The song has been certified double platinum in Sweden and platinum in New Zealand, Italy and Denmark. I'm an Albatraoz is featured on the video game series Just Dance 2016. Saxophone players are also shown. Ekberg raps about a woman who she calls a mouse and refers to in a vulgar way. The word albatraoz is a made up word, created to reference an albatross and the group itself. Mouse is also a play on words, as the Swedish for mouse is 'mus', which also means vagina, or pussy.
° Any of various large seabirds of the family Diomedeidae ranging widely in the Southern Ocean and the North Pacific and having a hooked beak and long narrow wings. ° A double eagle, or three under par on any one hole. 