Famous real-life people named Loretta: | Edit. Loretta Lynn, country music singer. Loretta Young, Hollywood actress. Loretta Swit, American television actress (MASH). One of the twin daughters of Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick is called Loretta. Her full name is Marion Loretta Elwell Broderick. Personal experiences with the name Loretta: | Edit. My name is Loretta. I have always loved the sound and uniqueness of it. I get many comments about it, mostly about it being a very beautiful name. My parents took some time to decide what to call me as they were not for some reason I 1976 expecting a girl.
Loretta is a widely used name; it has 25 variant transcriptions. Variation transcriptions include Laret, Laretta, Larette, Larretta, Larrette, Lauret, Laureta, Lauretta, Laurette, Lawrete, Leretta, Loret, Loretah, Lorete, Lorett, Lorette, Lorit, Lorita, Lorite, Lorreta, Lorretta, Lorrette, Lorrita, and Lowretta. Out of the group of girl names directly related to Loretta, Laura was the most commonly used in 2012. Baby names that sound like Loretta include Lacrita, Lacryta, Lucrezia, and Lacreta.
Loretta is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Lo-re-tta. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1322 in baby name popularity for girls with 177 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Spanish Meaning: The name Loretta is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Loretta is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Loretta is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Loretta is: Pure. English Meaning: The name Loretta is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Loretta is: The laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory. Old name with many variants.
Loretta /lo-ret-ta/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced lor-RET-ah. It is of Italian and Latin origin, and the meaning of Loretta is laurel. Diminutive of Laura or Lora. This elaborated form of the name was created in the 19th century. Loreta is a saint's name. Actresses Loretta Young, Loretta Swit; country singer Loretta Lynn.
[ 3 syll. lo-ret-ta, lor-e- tta ] The baby girl name Loretta is pronounced Lah-R EH T-ah (English) †. Loretta is of Latin and Spanish origin, and it is used mainly in English and Italian. From Spanish roots, its meaning is 'pure'. In addition, Loretta is an English and Italian pet form of Laura. Out of the group of girl names directly related to Loretta, Laura was the most commonly used in 2012. Baby names that sound like Loretta include Lacrita, Lacryta, Lucrezia, and Lacreta.
Latin Meaning: The name Loretta is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Loretta is: or Lora referring to the laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory. A saint's name. The name Loretta is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Loretta is: The laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory. Old name with many variants.
The name Loretta is of Italian origin, and it means Laurel . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
Loretta is a very popular first name for females (#189 out of 4276, Top 4%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#63450 out of 150436, Top 42%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Loretta for girls. Diminutive of Laura or Lora. This elaborated form of the name was created in the 19th century. Loreta is a saint's name. Actresses Loretta Young, Loretta Swit; country singer Loretta Lynn.