There is a good response in 40–50% of patients, a partial response in 30–40%, and treatment resistance (failure of symptoms to respond satisfactorily after six weeks to two of three different antipsychotics) in the remaining 20%. The choice of which antipsychotic to use for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. It is debatable whether, as a class, typical or atypical antipsychotics are better. Both have equal drop-out and symptom relapse rates when typicals are used at low to moderate dosages.
The history of antipsychotic medications. Introduction: The first drugs that were effective for the treatment of schizophrenia were developed during the 1950s. They are referred to as conventional or first generation antipsychotics. There are many different ‘conventional’ antipsychotic drugs, such as haloperidol, chlorpromazine, fluphenazine, droperidol, pimozide, sulpiride, perphenazine, flupenthixol, zuclopenthixol and trifluoperazine. Their main benefit is in treating the positive symptoms of schizophrenia
The history of antipsychotic drug development has had a long and torturous course, often based on chance findings that bear little relationship to the intellectual background driving observations. Later, the phenothiazines were developed for their antihistaminergic properties. In 1951, Laborit and Huguenard administered the aliphatic phenothiazine, chlorpromazine, to patients for its potential anesthetic effects during surgery. Shortly thereafter, Hamon et al. and Delay et al. extended the use of this treatment in psychiatric patients and serendipitously uncovered its antipsychotic activity. Between 1954 and 1975, about 15 antipsychotic drugs were introduced in the United States and about 40 throughout the world
First-generation antipsychotics, known as typical antipsychotics, were discovered in the 1950s. Most second-generation drugs, known as atypical antipsychotics, have been developed more recently, although the first atypical antipsychotic, clozapine, was discovered in the 1950s and introduced clinically in the 1970s. Withdrawal effects may also occur when switching a person from one antipsychotic to another, (it is presumed due to variations of potency and receptor activity). Such withdrawal effects can include cholinergic rebound, an activation syndrome, and motor syndromes including dyskinesias.
The first antipsychotic medications were introduced in the 1950s. Antipsychotic medications have helped many patients with psychosis lead a more normal and fulfilling life by alleviating such symptoms as hallucinations, both visual and auditory, and paranoid thoughts. These kinds of behaviors are symptoms of a psychotic illness such as schizophrenia. Antipsychotic medications act against these symptoms. These medications cannot “cure” the illness, but they can take away many of the symptoms or make them milder.
The 1990s saw the development of several new drugs for schizophrenia, called atypical antipsychotics.. Because they have fewer side effects than the older drugs, today they are often used as a first-line treatment. The first atypical antipsychotic, clozapine (Clozaril), was introduced in the United States in 1990. Antipsychotic medications act against these symptoms. These medications cannot cure the illness, but they can take away many of the symptoms or make them milder. In some cases, they can shorten the course of an episode of the illness as well. There are a number of antipsychotic (neuroleptic) medications available.
The first antipsychotic medications were introduced in the 1950s. Antipsychotic medications have helped many patients with psychosis lead a more normal and fulfilling life by alleviating such symptoms as hallucinations, both visual and auditory, and paranoid thoughts. Antipsychotic medications act against these symptoms. These medications cannot cure the illness, but they can take away many of the symptoms or make them milder. In some cases, they can shorten the course of an episode of the illness as well. There are a number of antipsychotic (neuroleptic) medications available.
Although atypical antipsychotics are thought to be safer than typical antipsychotics, they still have severe side effects, including tardive dyskinesia (a serious movement disorder), neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and increased risk of stroke, sudden cardiac death, blood clots, and diabetes. The choice of which antipsychotic to use for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. It is debatable whether, as a class, typical or atypical antipsychotics are better. Both have equal drop-out and symptom relapse rates when typicals are used at low to moderate dosages.
Atypical antipsychotics are typically used to treat schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. They are also frequently used to treat agitation associated with dementia, anxiety disorder, Autism Spectrum Disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (an off-label use). The choice of which antipsychotic to use for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. It is debatable whether, as a class, typical or atypical antipsychotics are better. Both have equal drop-out and symptom relapse rates when typicals are used at low to moderate dosages.