Grains can be purchased from bins or prepackaged. There are also foods that are made from grains that you can buy. As a general rule, brown grain food products are whole grains and white grains have been bleached and processed. But always check the food label and look for the 100% whole grains. This has the most fiber.
If you are going to eat grain foods, pick the ones that are the most nutritious. Choose whole grains. Whole grains are rich in vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals and fiber. Reading labels is essential for this food group to make sure you are making the best choices. A whole grain is the entire grain—which includes the bran, germ and endosperm (starchy part). The most popular grain in the US is wheat so that will be our example. To make 100% whole wheat flour, the entire wheat grain is ground up. Refined flours like white and enriched wheat flour include only part of the grain – the starchy part, and are not whole grain
Some whole grains (like quinoa) are considered complete proteins (containing all 8 essential amino acids), once thought to only come from animal proteins or a combination of plant-based foods. Fiber swells. Because whole grains include the bran and germ of the grain, they must be stored a bit more carefully than their refined counterparts. Store grains covered, in a cool, dry spot out of direct sunlight for no more than 3 months for flours and meals and 6 months for intact grains.
Some foods only contain a small amount of whole grain but will say it contains whole grain on the front of the package. For all cereals and grains, read the ingredient list and look for the following sources of whole grains as the first ingredient: 1  Bulgur (cracked wheat). 2  Whole wheat flour. 3  Whole oats/oatmeal. A whole grain is the entire grain—which includes the bran, germ and endosperm (starchy part). The most popular grain in the US is wheat so that will be our example. To make 100% whole wheat flour, the entire wheat grain is ground up. Refined flours like white and enriched wheat flour include only part of the grain – the starchy part, and are not whole grain
Foods that are made or derived from barley, cornmeal, oats, rice, wheat, or another cereal grain are considered a grain product. The foodstuffs most readily identified, as grain products are grits, cereals, tortillas, bread, pasta, and oatmeal and breakfast cereals. Refined grains have their germ and bran removed during milling. What constitutes a refined grain is the fact that it has been through a mechanical process referred to as milling. Milling removes the germ and bran to give grains a texture that is finer than found naturally.
Most refined grains are enriched. This means certain B vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, folic acid) and iron are added back after processing. Fiber is not added back to enriched grains. Check the ingredient list on refined grain products to make sure that the word enriched is included in the grain name. Some food products are made from mixtures of whole grains and refined grains. Any food made from wheat, rice, oats, cornmeal, barley or another cereal grain is a grain product. Bread, pasta, oatmeal, breakfast cereals, tortillas, and grits are examples of grain products. Grains are divided into 2 subgroups, Whole Grains and Refined Grains. Whole grains contain the entire grain kernel ― the bran, germ, and endosperm
Anatomy of a whole grain. Also called cereals, grains and whole grains are the seeds of grasses cultivated for food. Grains and whole grains come in many shapes and sizes, from large kernels of popcorn to small quinoa seeds. 1 Whole grains are better sources of fiber and other important nutrients, such as selenium, potassium and magnesium. 2  Whole grains are either single foods, such as brown rice and popcorn, or ingredients in products, such as buckwheat in pancakes or whole wheat in bread. 3  Refined grains.