Viral diseases: Introduction. A viral infection is any type of illness or disease caused by a virus, a type of microbe. Microbes are tiny organisms that cannot be seen without a microscope and include bacteria, fungi, and some parasites, as well as viruses. There are many types of viruses that cause a wide variety of viral infections or viral diseases. For example, there are over 200 different viruses that can cause a cold or an upper respiratory infection. Other common viruses include the influenza virus, which causes influenza or the flu.
Viruses are often very difficult to fight because they cannot be killed by antibiotics. Here are some of the viruses that can cause illness or disease: 1  Human Immunodeficiency Virus -- this is HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. 2  Flu viruses. 3  There are lots of different strains of flu virus, which is why new vaccines have to be made every year. 4  Cold virus. 5  The common cold is caused by a viru
Examples of common human diseases caused by viruses include the common cold,influenza, chickenpox and cold sores. Many serious diseases such as ebola, AIDS, avian influenza an … d SARS are caused by viruses. Diseases that are caused by a virus include :MeaslesFlu (influenza)HerpesCommon coldHIV/AIDSChickenpoxSmallpoxHepatitisPolioMononucleosisEbola AIDS, the common cold, and influ … enza. Johnellishartford.
There are many diseases caused by viruses. Some are-chickenpox, measles, influenza, rabies, AIDS, colds, the flu or polio. Rhinovirus (the common cold), Influenza A & B, R … otavirus, HIV, and so many, many more. Diseases that are caused by a virus include :MeaslesFlu (influenza)HerpesCommon coldHIV/AIDSChickenpoxSmallpoxHepatitisPolioMononucleosisEbola AIDS, the common cold, and influ … enza. Johnellishartford.
The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis. 
Bacterial diseases include any type of illness caused by bacteria. Bacteria are a type of microorganism, which are tiny forms of life that can only be seen with a microscope. Other types of microorganisms include viruses, some fungi, and some parasites. 
That is one of the primary reasons why they are present almost everywhere. Most infectious diseases are caused by viruses, or a combination of viruses and bacteria. Many of them are curable, but some are really dangerous, and can prove to be fatal too. Hence, it is important to know about these diseases and take the necessary precautions against them. 
Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. 
Gastrointestinal Infections. Viruses cause viral gastroenteritis, commonly called the stomach flu.. This common illness, characterized by diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, is caused by many different viruses, but not the influenza virus. According to a 2012 article in the journal American Family Physician, viruses cause between 75 and 90 percent of acute gastrointestinal disease in children. 
Influenza, more commonly known as “the flu,” is caused by a contagious virus. Symptoms include body aches, sore throat, headache, fever, coughing, and chills. Perhaps because influenza is so common, misconceptions about the disease abound. 1 Smallpox: Smallpox is a serious, contagious, and sometimes fatal infectious disease caused by the variola virus. 2  Historically, smallpox had a mortality rate of as much as 30 percent. 3  In the Americas, it killed as much as 90 percent of the indigenous population after contact with Europeans introduced the disease.