In a typical sleep cycle, we initially enter the early stages of sleep followed by deeper sleep stages and ultimately (after about 90 minutes) rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. For people suffering from narcolepsy, REM sleep occurs almost immediately in the sleep cycle, as well as periodically during the waking hours. It is in REM sleep that we can experience dreams and muscle paralysis -- which explains some of the symptoms of narcolepsy. Although there is no cure for narcolepsy, the most disabling symptoms of the disorder (EDS and symptoms of abnormal REM sleep, such as cataplexy) can be controlled in most people with drug treatment.
Cataplexy. Cataplexy is a sudden loss of muscle tone while the person is awake that leads to feelings of weakness and a loss of voluntary muscle control. Attacks can occur at any time during the waking period, with individuals usually experiencing their first episodes several weeks or months after the onset of EDS. The most common major symptom, other than excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), is cataplexy, which occurs in about 70 percent of all people with narcolepsy. Sleep paralysis and hallucinations are somewhat less common.
Narcolepsy is a chronic neurological disorder of excessivedaytime sleepiness. It may occur with other symptomssuch as cataplexy, sleep paralysis and hallucinations.• All people with narcolepsy have excessive drowsiness.You may have a lack of energy. Strong urges to napcan happen at any time of the day. Naps might last forminutes or up to an hour or more. 
During sleep, we usually pass through five phases of sleep: stages 1, 2, 3, 4, and REM (rapid eye movement) sleep. These stages progress in a cycle from stage 1 to REM sleep, then the cycle starts over again with stage 1 (see figure 1). Narcolepsy affects an estimated 250,000 Americans. People with narcolepsy have frequent sleep attacks at various times of the day, even if they have had a normal amount of night-time sleep. These attacks last from several seconds to more than 30 minutes.
Narcolepsy is a neurological disorder that affects the control of sleep and wakefulness. People with narcolepsy experience excessive daytime sleepiness and intermittent, uncontrollable episodes of falling asleep during the daytime. These sudden sleep attacks may occur during any type of activity at any time of the day. Although there is no cure for narcolepsy, the most disabling symptoms of the disorder (EDS and symptoms of abnormal REM sleep, such as cataplexy) can be controlled in most people with drug treatment.
Cataplexy, sleep paralysis, and hypnagogic hallucinations are similar to the loss of muscle tone that accompanies normal dreaming in a stage of sleep called REM. In narcolepsy the lack of muscle tone and the dream experiences occur at inappropriate times. Narcolepsy. Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder that causes symptoms such as excessive daytime sleepiness and, in some cases, sleep attacks.. These attacks cause people with narcolepsy to fall asleep at very unusual and sometimes dangerous times (while in the middle of a conversation or driving a car)..
People with narcolepsy experience periods of extreme daytime sleepiness and sudden, irresistible bouts of sleep that can strike at any time. These “sleep attacks” usually last a few seconds to several minutes. The most common major symptom, other than excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), is cataplexy, which occurs in about 70 percent of all people with narcolepsy. Sleep paralysis and hallucinations are somewhat less common.
Narcolepsy is a neurological disorder caused by the brain's inability to regulate sleep-wake cycles normally. The main features of narcolepsy are fatigue and cataplexy. The disease is also often associated with sudden sleep attacks, insomnia, dream-like hallucinations, and a condition called sleep paralysis. In order to understand the basics of narcolepsy, it is important to first review the features of normal sleep.. Sleep happens in cycles. When we fall asleep, we initially enter a light stage of sleep and then progress into increasingly deeper stages.
The classic symptoms of the disorder, often referred to as the tetrad of narcolepsy, are cataplexy, sleep paralysis, hypnagogic hallucinations, and excessive daytime sleepiness. Other symptoms may include automatic behaviors and night-time wakefulness. These symptoms may not occur in all patients. 1 It is estimated that up to 40 percent of people with narcolepsy experience automatic behavior during sleep episodes. 2  Sleep paralysis and hypnagogic hallucinations also occur in people who do not have narcolepsy, but more frequently in people who are suffering from extreme lack of sleep.