Downton Abbey's Lady Mary Crawley, played by Michelle Dockery, and her on screen love interest Lord Gillingham were spotted getting close as they filmed scenes for the ITV1 drama.
Ever since both Lady Sybil and Matthew Crawley died in “Downton Abbey” Season 3, fans have wondered if widows and single parents Tom Branson and Lady Mary will fall in love.
The eldest of the Crawley daughters, the icily beautiful Mary has mellowed somewhat in the aftermath of a terrible secret and the heartbreak of her broken engagement with Downton Abbey's heir, Matthew Crawley. As war brings change, so too does her new suitor, the powerful self-made newspaperman, Sir Richard Carlisle.
The eldest daughter of Lord Grantham, Mary, was less than pleased with Matthew's arrival; as a woman, she could not inherit the estate and title, so originally it had been planned for her to marry the previous heir, Patrick Crawley, but he drowned on the Titanic.
17 SEPTEMBER 2012 Their on-off romance kept Downton Abbey viewers on the edge of their seats for the first two seasons. But Lady Mary Crawley and Matthew Crawley finally get their fairytale ending at the start of the third series. The couple make it down the aisle at last during a joyous celebration that will secure Mary's place in the future of Downton.
'Downton Abbey 's Lady Mary Crawley may have been left reeling from the sudden death of her husband Matthew Crawley, but actress Michelle Dockery admits she was far more agreeable to the changes it brought to her character. We all had that choice to stay or go for Series four and five, she tells HuffPostUK.
Lady Mary hasn’t exactly been the luckiest in love. In fact, for all three Crawley sisters, love has had dire consequences. But at least it appears that new mother Lady Mary won’t be left in the depths of depression for too long after the death of the love of her life, Matthew Crawley in the season finale.
He and Lady Mary Crawley entered a tumultuous eight-year relationship ending with Matthew's second proposal in early January 1920. Mary finally accepts, five and a half years after the first. They get married in May 1920 and lived together in Downton Abbey.