Sale! Deficiency of vitamin E in your body can be realised through the dullness and dryness of your skin. You can obtain vitamin E from food items like almonds, olives, raw seeds, Swiss chard, mustard greens, spinach, turnip greens, kale, plant oils, hazelnuts, pine nuts, avocadoes, broccoli, parsley and papaya.
Dry skin is also caused by deficiency of Vitamin E. This vitamin for dry skin can be used in the form of lotions, creams and moisturizers to produce youthful and glowing skin. The richest sources of Vitamin E are olive oil and almond oil.
Vitamins For Dry Skin. It is rarely a vitamin deficiency alone which causes dry skin, but if you get optimum levels from food or from taking vitamin supplements, you are are doing everything possible to treat and cure your dry skin.
The best vitamins for dry skin are :-. Vitamin A: one of the symptoms of deficiency of this vitamin is dry, rough, scaly skin. Unfortunately high doses can be toxic and too much leads to the same kind of skin problems you get with a deficiency.
Vitamins for dry skin prevent the drying of skin or simply revitalize it and make it more supple and radiant. Vitamin B, Vitamin C and Vitamin D are responsible for causing dry skin. Sufficient amounts of these vitamins help in rejuvenating the skin and make the skin look younger, healthier and lustrous.
Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin and can serve as a good moisturizer for dry skin as well as dry hair. As vitamin E has antioxidant properties, it protects the skin from the harmful effects and damage caused by free radicals. Applying vitamin E oil prevents breakouts and lubricates dry skin as well.
Good sources of vitamin E are: nuts, oils, vegetables, sunflower seeds, whole grains, spinach, oils, seeds, wheat oils, asparagus, avocado, beef, seafood. In addition to vitamins for dry skin, don’t forget to supplement with effective moisturizers.
Dry skin and vitamins always go hand in hand. If you have dry skin, then the major cause is vitamin deficiency and if you consume good amount of skin vitamins, then you will never face the problem of dryness. The best antidote for dry skin is a well balanced and nutritious diet.
Dry skin vitamins mainly include Vitamin A, Vitamin B, Vitamin C and Vitamin D. The skin looks dry if the body has low levels of Vitamin A and Vitamin B. Leafy vegetables, and fortified vitamins help in reloading these vitamins in the body.