Sand Sifting Gobies. Gobies are among the most beautiful and entertaining fish found in saltwater aquariums. Some (not all) Gobies process the sand substrate in an aquarium in search for food (algae and detritus). Sand sifting Gobies literally eat sand, removing the algae and detritus, then either spit the sand out of their mouths, or eject it through their gills. Not all Gobies sift sand. 
Sand Sifting Gobies plow through the tank substrate, sifting/straining algae, detritus and uneaten food from the sand. This not only removes unwanted nitrate producing substances, it also stirs and aerates the sand (very important for Deep Sand Beds), releasing toxic gases. Diamond Sleeper Goby. The Sleeper Striped Goby (Valenciennea longipinnis) stirs the sand as it sifts through it, straining out food. This Goby is a carnovore, therefore its diet should include a variety of live and frozen brine shrimp, mysis shrimp, live black worms, and prepared foods for carnivores. More ».
They feed in a similar manner as the hover gobies, taking in mouthfuls of sand and sifting it through their gill-rakers. These fish move by hopping along the substrate. They frequently flick the two dorsal fins forward, exposing the large ocelli present on these fins. 
The sand goby has two dorsal fins with a wider gap between them than the common goby (Pomatoschistus microps), the anterior one consisting of six soft spines and the posterior one eight to eleven soft rays. The pelvic fins are fused with the anal fins. This species can reach a length of 11 centimetres (4.3 in) TL. This species is sometimes kept in public aquariums. The sand goby is of a sandy colour, with darker markings on the sides and a creamy-white underside. In the breeding season the male fish has blue spot at the rear of the first dorsal fin, ringed with white. The fish has a slender body, and the head is about a quarter of the total length
Description: These are one of the larger sized sand sifting gobies. They have a cream white color body with a bright golden yellow head. Recommended Tank: To be successfully cared for, it should be housed in a 30 gallon or larger aquarium with live sand as the substrate, and an attached populated refugium. Tisbe adult copepods live on bottom substrate such as live rock or sand and will eat detritus and microalage in the aquarium. They produce a small nauplii which is an excellent food for aquarium filter feeders and fish larvae. The adults are eaten by small bottom feeding fish such as gobies, dragonettes and blennies.
My problem with gobies is they seem to just waste away after several weeks!. It is usually very difficult to get sand sifting gobies to eat prepared or frozen foods. These fish need a lot of food to sustain their body weight and it amazes me that they even survive in the wild. It just goes to show how much there really is living in the sand on the sea floor. What I begin with in training my gobies is frozen brine shrimp. These tend to settle to the bottom when added to the tank and sit on top of the sand. If you can get them to fall somewhere near where your gobies are sand sifting, they will eventually pick one up in a mouthful of sand.
The sand goby normally lives at greater depths than the common goby. It feeds on small invertebrates living on the seabed especially amphipods. It is well camouflaged and lies motionless on the bottom waiting for its prey to approach. This species can reach a length of 11 centimetres (4.3 in) TL. This species is sometimes kept in public aquariums. The sand goby is of a sandy colour, with darker markings on the sides and a creamy-white underside. In the breeding season the male fish has blue spot at the rear of the first dorsal fin, ringed with white. The fish has a slender body, and the head is about a quarter of the total lengt
Gobies are relatively small fish, usually reaching three inches in captivity. Goby fish species adjust well to aquarium life. A well-sealed lid is a requirement for keeping gobies, as they will jump out of an open aquarium. Plenty of rockwork and the proper substrate of coral sand should be provided to enable burrowing or sand sifting Gobies the proper environment. 