Production for seasons one, two and three of Game of Thrones was based in Belfast with filming in the Titanic Studios and at locations across Northern Ireland including the North Coast, Tollymore Forest Park, Castle Ward and the banks of the Quoile in Downpatrick.
This HBO production is based in Northern Ireland and most of the locations for the first two seasons have been filmed around Belfast, but we are not visiting these ones. You can find a map including the filming locations of Game of Thrones for all the series up to now at the end of the post.
Northern Ireland Edit. The home base for the production team working on the Game of Thrones TV adaptation is in Belfast, Northern Ireland. Many of the large interior sets are located at their studios in Belfast, including the massive Paint Hall studio.
Image caption Martin McGuinness and Peter Robinson with actress Michelle Fairley from Northern Ireland who appears in Game of Thrones. A fourth series of the TV fantasy drama Game of Thrones will be filmed in Northern Ireland, it has been confirmed. The show is produced by the American film company, HBO.
Most of the filming takes place in a studio in Belfast, and elsewhere on location in Northern Ireland, with the Northern Irish economy reportedly seeing a boost thanks to Game of Thrones fans wanting to visit the real-life places where the show is filmed.
T he forests, mountains and moorlands around Northern Ireland transformed into the scenic backdrops for Game of Thrones most memorable moments. It was here that Brienne clashed with the Hound, Baelish and Sansa passed the Bloody Gate and Jamie made his one-handed escape.
Follow the three-eyed raven through Northern Ireland, where crumbling castles and ancient landscapes become key Seven Kingdoms filming locations in Game of Thrones.
Visit the Shooting Locations in Northern Ireland. June 4, 2013 in Ireland, Irish Film & Television | 23 comments. Regular readers will know that I can’t watch anything Irish without wondering where it was made. Lately, I’ve been watching Game of Thrones, and learned that a lot of the show is filmed in Northern Ireland. Game of Thrones features many Irish actors and is filmed all over
The Game of Thrones filming franchise selected Northern Ireland as one of its three main filming locations for, among other reasons, the beauty of the locations. (The 1m grant received presumably helped.).