The bronchi deliver oxygen-rich air to the lungs, where gas exchange occurs in tiny air sacs called alveoli. Exhaled air (oxygen-poor and carbon dioxide–rich) go the reverse way—from the ends of the bronchioles and back up.
1 Bronchial tube-the trachea breaks up into these smaller tubes to enter the right and left lungs. 2  Bronchioles-within the lungs the bronchi split into these even smaller tubes which attach to the alveoli. 3  Alveoli-these are the small sac-like structures where gas exchange occurs with the blood.
Gas exchange is the delivery of oxygen from the lungs to the bloodstream, and the elimination of carbon dioxide from the bloodstream to the lungs. It occurs in the lungs between the alveoli and a network of tiny blood vessels called capillaries, which are located in the walls of the alveoli. The walls of the alveoli actually share a membrane with the capillaries in which oxygen and carbon dioxide move freely between the respiratory system and the bloodstream.
gaseous exchange in the lungs takes place in the walls of the alveoli which are provided with a rich supply of blood vessels .the partial pressures of the gases .i.e. CO2 and … oxygen in the atmosphere and the blood vessel is naturally perfect for the diffusion of gases. 3 people found this useful.
Gas exchange occurs in the capillaries which are the smallest blood vessels in the body. Each artery that comes from the heart is surrounded by capillaries so that they can ta … ke it to the various parts of the body.
Gas exchange is the process by which oxygen and carbon dioxide (the respiratory gases) move in opposite directions across an organism's respiratory membranes, between the air or water of the external environment and the body fluids of the internal environment.
Gas exchange between the air within the alveoli and the pulmonary capillaries occurs by diffusion. The oxygen must first dissolve before passing through the respiratory epithelium. Gas moves from a region of high partial pressure to a region of low partial pressure, down a partial pressure gradient.
Gas exchange occurs in the lungs. The lungs consist of sacs called alveolus which exchanges oxygen and carbon dioxide to allow for respiration to occur.