Its suppose to mean that they're the same quality as OEM parts but they are not. Fit and appearance is always a problem and the sheet metal is usually thinner than OEM. If we have to use aftermarket parts because an insurance co. mandates it, we do not gaurentee the fit, finish or durability of the parts. Detail can be lost, body lines can be slightly changed, etc. CAPA certified parts are those which exhibit the best fit/finish/corrosion resistance of the aftermarket parts, but the non-CAPA certified stuff can be pretty embarassing.
CAPA certified aftermarket parts are verified by the Certified Automotive Parts Association to be as good as OEM parts. These have been built under license with the original manufacturer and made to match their specifications. CAPA-certified parts have undergone a testing process in order to receive certification. Visit CAPAcertified.org for more information. NON-CAPA CERTIFIED AFTERMARKET PARTS Non-CAPA certified aftermarket parts have not been approved by the Certified Automotive Parts Association. Sometimes these parts are still okay to use, but in many instances they are not.
The Certified Automotive Parts Association (CAPA) is a non-profit organization established in 1987 and based in Washington, DC, USA, to develop and oversee a test program guaranteeing the suitability and quality of automotive parts. CAPA quality standards apply to various types of parts made from different materials. CAPA is constantly expanding the certification program to include more parts and new materials. Currently, three specifications that set quality standards for metal (CAPA 101), plastic (CAPA 201) and lighting (CAPA 301) are in place.
Answers. Best Answer: The CAPA certified aftermarket fender is certified for fit and finish and has a manufacturers warranty. Still does not mean it will fit perfectly and since they do not package aftermarket parts like dealer parts expect some damage. ok got in a acident and i am looking at parts online and there are 2 fenders one is capa certified what is that the other is not do i need a capa certified. Add your answer. Source.
Being certified means it meets the quality standards set by the CAPA. However, not being certified doesn't mean it is lower quality, it simply means that the company didn't ask CAPA to come in and perform their certification process. They may have their own QA (quality assurance) checks and tests that are even more stringent than CAPA, but they may not. I am going to warn you now: DO NOT GET A CAPA part. It's an aftermarket part that is dangerous, doesn't fit right, and does not absorb damage like a OEM part should. Let me give you an example: A volvo had an aftermarket, capa certified hood.
Advertisements. I need to replace a fender for my car but I'm not sure what the difference in quality is with CAPA certified and non-CAPA certified parts. As long as the parts are properly prepped and painted this shouldn't be a big concern. Keep in mind that being non-CAPA certified doesn't necessarily mean lower quality. In many cases the parts are just as good but the manufacturer chooses not to pursue CAPA certification in order to cut costs.
The Certified Automotive Parts Association is a non-profit organization that certifies the quality of automotive parts used for collision repairs. CAPA oversees a testing and inspection program that certifies the quality of automotive parts used for collision repairs. As long as the parts are properly prepped and painted this shouldn't be a big concern. Keep in mind that being non-CAPA certified doesn't necessarily mean lower quality. In many cases the parts are just as good but the manufacturer chooses not to pursue CAPA certification in order to cut costs.
Aftermarket car parts that are not CAPA certified does not necessarily mean they do not hold the same superior quality and standards as their CAPA certified contenders. And, oftentimes, these other aftermarket parts undergo some other type of certification process they will list on their site. Unless it’s been explicitly stated that they used a CAPA certified or OEM part, body shops usually use non-CAPA certified parts for various reasons: (1) they’re cheaper, (2) they know the quality of the parts since they usually stick to one supplier.