The parotid gland is the largest of the major salivary glands and the most likely to develop cancer. It is located in the cheek in front of the ear. 
You have three major salivary glands: the parotid, submandibular, and sublingual glands. They are responsible for producing saliva. The most common cause of salivary gland problems is blocked glands, which can cause painful symptoms. Sialolithiasis and sialadenitis are problems that can occur in the salivary glands. 
The parotid gland is a salivary gland, responsible for making saliva. There are two parotid glands, one on each side of the face. They are located in front of the ears and extend to the lower borders of the jawbones. The glands secrete thin saliva which travels into the mouth to aid in chewing and digesting food. 
Salivary gland cancer starts in one of the salivary glands. It’s not just a single disease. There are actually several different salivary glands found inside and near your mouth. Many types of cancer and benign (non-cancerous) tumors can develop in these glands. The 2 main types of salivary glands are the major salivary glands and minor salivary glands. There are 3 sets of major salivary glands on each side of the face: 1  The parotid glands, the largest salivary glands, are just in front of the ears. 2  About 7 out of 10 salivary gland tumors start here.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. A salivary gland stone -- also called salivary duct stone -- is a calcified structure that may form inside a salivary gland or duct. It can block the flow of saliva into the mouth. The majority of stones affect the submandibular glands located at the floor of the mouth. 
Your salivary glands make as much as a quart of saliva each day. Saliva is important to lubricate your mouth, help with swallowing, protect your teeth against bacteria, and aid in the digestion of food. The three major pairs of salivary glands are: 1  parotid glands on the insides of the cheeks. When there is a problem with the salivary glands or ducts, you may have symptoms such as salivary gland swelling, dry mouth, pain, fever, and foul-tasting drainage into the mouth.
Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. When there is a problem with the salivary glands or ducts, you may have symptoms such as salivary gland swelling, dry mouth, pain, fever, and foul-tasting drainage into the mouth.
The parotid gland (often simply parotid) is a major salivary gland in many animals. In humans, the two parotid glands occur under the mouth and in front of both ears. They are the largest of the salivary glands. Each parotid is wrapped around the mandibular ramus, and secretes saliva through the Stensen duct (or parotid duct) into the mouth, to facilitate mastication and swallowing and to begin the digestion of starches. The word parotid (paraotic) literally means beside the ear. About 80% of tumors of the parotid gland are benign. The most common of these include pleomorphic adenoma (70% of tumors, affecting predominantly females (60%)) and Warthin tumor (i.e. adenolymphoma) more in males than in females.
The three major salivary glands are the parotid gland, submandibular gland (also called the submaxillary gland), and sublingual glands. Saliva drains into the mouth through small tubes called ducts. 1  The parotid gland makes 25% of the saliva and drains into the mouth near the upper teeth. Most salivary tumors are benign (non-cancerous), but they can also be cancerous. The parotid is the most common gland for salivary tumors to grow. Pleomorphic adenomas are the most common parotid tumor.
We call the major salivary glands the parotid, submandibular, and sublingual glands. They all secrete saliva into your mouth, the parotid through tubes that drain saliva, called salivary ducts, near your upper teeth, submandibular under your tongue, and the sublingual through many ducts in the floor of your mouth. When these lymph nodes enlarge through infection, you may have a red, painful swelling in the area of the parotid or submandibular glands. Lymph nodes also enlarge due to tumors and inflammation. Tumors: Primary benign and malignant salivary gland tumors usually show up as painless enlargements of these glands.