There's more to farming than dirt, cows, and a pair of bib overalls. It depends on breed: some breeds, like Nigerians, have a longer gestation period than others. The average, however, is 145-155 days in length. What is the gestation period of goat sheep pig and horse? Goat and sheep are both 6 months, pigs are 3 months 3 weeks and 3 days, and Horses are 11-12 months.
Gestation Table. Based on average gestation period of 150 days. Most goats follow a schedule of an average of 150 days. Pygmy goats seem to be the exception with reports of 155 days. The table below follows the average and indicates the date to expect kidding, and the date for which they would be considered marketable. Please note, some breeders consider kid goats marketable at 8 weeks of age, but it is of this authors opinion that 12 weeks is a better age for weaning kids. By 12 weeks, a kid goat has had a good solid diet and will do much better than the kid weaned at 8 weeks.
Female goats, or does, reach sexual maturity between the ages of 8 to 10 months, so they can produce their first offspring about the age of 13 to 15 months. Much depends on the type of goat, nutrition levels and the time at which they're born. It's possible for a goat to give birth twice a year. A Goat's Gestation and Weaning. It's spring -- time for new kids and plenty of food. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Your goat's gestation period lasts five months from mating to kidding. Watch her right side when she's heavily pregnant-all that movement is the kid. The movement stops about a day and a half before the birth
The time from mating to kidding of a goat is called her gestation period. Usually gestation period of a goat lasts for about 150 days. They need extra care, feeding and other management during this period. Female goats gain sexual maturity within their 8 to 10 months of age, although some goats gain maturity earlier. And most of the goats can produce their first kids at their 13 to 15 months of age. The time from mating to kidding of a goat is usually called
After breeding: 1  The gestation period (the length of time it takes for the kid to develop inside the doe) is 150 days. 2  However, the actual birth usually comes between 145 to 155 days (5 months). 3  It is important that the doe has a balanced nutritional diet during her pregnancy. 1 The gestation period (the length of time it takes for the kid to develop inside the doe) is 150 days. 2  However, the actual birth usually comes between 145 to 155 days (5 months). 3  It is important that the doe has a balanced nutritional diet during her pregnancy. 4  However, do not over feed her.
The Goat Gestation Period Calculator above attempts to generalize the estimation of the due date without any additional factors using a 150 day gestation period for a goat. Did you know goats are among the earliest animals to be domesticated. There are nearly 1 billion goats on the planet today. 
Gestation. Female goats gain sexual maturity within their 8 to 10 months of age, although some goats gain maturity earlier. And most of the goats can produce their first kids at their 13 to 15 months of age. The time from mating to kidding of a goat is usually called gestation period. In case of goats, gestation period lasts for about 150 days. Although it much depends on the goat’s type, nutrition levels, the time when they were born and some other factors. There are some goat breeds available which can produce babies twice a year
Report Abuse. The Gestation Period for goats varies with the species: According to Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goat domestic goat: “Gestation length is approximately 150 days. The following animals are Ungulates (hooved animals) and related to goats: According to Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pronghorn pronghorn antelope: “Pronghorns have a longer gestation period than is typical for North American ungulates.