A ferritin blood test checks the amount of ferritin in the blood. Ferritin is a protein in the body that binds to iron; most of the iron stored in the body is bound to ferritin. The amount of ferritin found in the blood is the same amount that is in the body.
Even if your ferritin levels are on the lower side of the normal range, they may mean that you have low iron levels. The cause of low levels in women may be excessive menstrual bleeding or a diet that is low in iron.
A ferritin blood test checks the amount of ferritin in the blood. Ferritin is a protein in the body that binds to iron; most of the iron stored in the body is bound to ferritin. Ferritin is found in the liver, spleen, skeletal muscles, and bone marrow. Only a small amount of ferritin is found
Results. A ferritin blood test checks the amount of ferritin in the blood. Ferritin is a protein in the body that binds to iron; most of the iron stored in the body is bound to ferritin. The amount of ferritin found in the blood is the same amount that is in the body.
The amount of ferritin in the blood (serum ferritin level) is directly related to the amount of iron stored in your body. Iron is important for red blood cell production. Your doctor may order this test if you have signs or symptoms of anemia due to low iron.
A serum ferritin test determines how much iron is in the body. Normal ferritin levels for men range from 24 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) to 336 ng/mL. The normal levels for women is slightly less, ranging from 11 ng/mL to 307 ng/mL.
My iron level is normal, but my ferritin level is low. The development of iron deficiency anemia is a gradual process. If your body is not taking in enough iron, your body first uses the iron that is stored in tissues (i.e., ferritin) and blood levels of ferritin will begin to decrease.
If a ferritin test reveals that your blood ferritin level is lower than normal, it indicates your body's iron stores are low and you have iron deficiency. If a ferritin test shows higher than normal levels, it could indicate that you have a condition that causes your body to store too much iron.