Your hot stone massage set should provide enough stones for a full body hot stone massage therapy session, always including large, medium, and small stones. Different types of massage stones can be used to deliver heat during a stone treatment, but basalt is the most common. It is perfect for therapeutic treatments as it releases heat slowly, making it ideal for hot stone massage sessions. Essential Guide To Choosing Stones for Hot and Cold Stone Massage.
Basalt massage stones are the most popular stone used in the massage therapy industry. Giving a full body massage with basalt ensures they will retain their heat, and provide the deepest relaxation possible. Different types of massage stones can be used to deliver heat during a stone treatment, but basalt is the most common. It is perfect for therapeutic treatments as it releases heat slowly, making it ideal for hot stone massage sessions. Essential Guide To Choosing Stones for Hot and Cold Stone Massage.
Types of Stones and Equipment Needed: Basalt stones: The stones that are used in hot stone massage are usually basalt, a type of rock that has been smoothed by natural forces in the river or sea and also is rich in iron so that they absorb and retain heat well (Brown). Heater: Hot stone Massage is a type of massage where a therapist uses smooth and heated stones, either as an extension of their own hands, or by placing them on the body while they massage other parts of the body (Brown).
Some therapists use river rocks for massage instead of basalt. While river rocks may heat up faster than basalt, they also lose their heat faster and their temperature can be somewhat unpredictable. As a result, the stones need to be replaced by hot stones from the heater more often than with basalt stones. Because of their characteristics, river rocks are better suited for short massage sessions and supplementary use (such as a 15 minute add-on at the end of a Swedish massage). 
There are two types of applications for hot stone therapy, one of this is placement stones. We start with a large stone which we place on the sacrum, this triangular section and it provides heat to the entire lumbar area. Hot stone therapy is a massage technique. This short video describes the various techniques used in hot stone therapy, and ... gives information about people who should avoid this therapy.
Using a different type of stone may mean that you have to switch stones in and out of the warmer quite often or they will become too cool for treatment. Cold stone massage: Marble stones. Marble stones are considered the best option for cold stone therapy. 
In general, the types of rocks most desired for hot stone massage are igneous or metamorphic. This is because igneous and metamorphic rocks are generally rich in iron ore, allowing them to absorb and retain heat for a longer period of time than stones with little iron. A variation of bodywork, hot stone massage involves the use of warm, smooth, flat stones during a session. There are two primary uses for the stones: 1  When carefully positioned on top of or underneath a client, stones exert pressure while transmitting heat for an extended period of time.
The stones used for a hot stone massage are usually basalt stones which are chalky grey in color but turn dark once oil is applied to them. Stones of marble are used for the cold stones. The stones are heated to 130 degrees F. and placed strategically along the spine and/or between the toes. 
Types of Massage Stones..... and the conditions they help treat ! The massage stones used in hot stone therapy are usually either oceanic or quarried basalt stone. Most therapists in massage use basalt stones. Types of stones used in massage therapy! Massage therapists often purchase complete stone sets, facial stones, deep tissue stones, or shaped stones designed for specific work in the massage session. Stones for facial massage are small, but still easy to use on the face. They are often cold to decrease inflammation or puffiness, but some facial massage techniques use warm stones for relaxation of facial muscles.
The premise behind hot stone massage therapy is that the direct heat of the stones relaxes muscles, allowing the therapist access to their deeper muscle layers. Combining hot stone protocols with a full body massage provides a very healing and effective experience. Hot stone massage therapy melts away tension, eases muscle stiffness and increases circulation and metabolism. Each 1 ½ -hour hot stone massage therapy session promotes deeper muscle relaxation through the placement of smooth, water-heated stones at key points on the body.