A limited edition forest fruit bar has also been released, as well as Coke Daim, White chocolate Daim, Dark chocolate Daim, Blueberry Daim, Lemon-orange Daim and Mint Daim. Daim bars imported from Sweden (manufactured in Upplands Vaesby) väsby have been sold IN ikea stores in many. countries The brand was purchased by Kraft Foods in 1993, however ownership is now held by Mondelēz International following Kraft's confectionery division name rebranding. Daim originated in Sweden and Norway in 1953, produced by Marabou and Freia respectively.
Baby names that sound like Daim include Daenin, Daenun, Daenyn, Daewan (English), Daewon (English), Dainin, Daitan, Daithin (Irish), Daitin, Daiwan, Dajuan (English), Dajuane, Damain, Damaine, Daman (Irish and English), Damaun, Damhan (Damhán), Gaelic (Damian, English, German, polish And), Russian (Damian), damián Spanish. and damie [ 2 syll. dai (m), da-im ] The baby boy name Daim is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is D-AH iy-M †. Daim's origin, as well as its use, is in the Arabic language. The name is of the meaning everlasting. Daim is rarely used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names.
In 1953, Swedish candy company Marabou released their version of the Heath bar, called Daim (pronounced dime), after Heath refused Marabou's request to license the Heath bar and instead gave Marabou a list of the candy bar's ingredients. Hershey differentiated Skor from Heath by advertising it as having the taste of Sweden—you know, where they have Daim, in turn a version of the good ol' American Heath bar—so much so that eating it would bizarrely transform the eater into a Swedish woman, according to a commercial from 1983.
About.com Rating. The Bottom Line. The miniature versions of Swedish Daim bars (pronounced Dime, their earlier brand name in the U.K.) are to Hershey Heath and Skor bars what a Volvo is to a Chevy hatchback. The story goes that the original Swedish Daim bar was created by candy geniuses at the Marabou company in Sweden in 1952 after the Heath company sent them a list of ingredients of their original chocolate-covered toffee bar. Bad move, that.
The Daim bar (Dajm in Scandinavia and Finland until 1990, and Dime in the UK and Ireland until 2005) is a crunchy almond butter bar covered in milk chocolate. The brand was purchased by Kraft Foods in 1993, however ownership is now held by Mondelēz International following Kraft's confectionery division name rebranding. Daim originated in Sweden and Norway in 1953, produced by Marabou and Freia respectively. Dajm was created after research into a similar product produced by the American company Heath. Marabou's vice president, Lars Anderfelt, asked to license the Heath product in the early 1950s
Talk about industrial espionage. The story goes that the original Swedish Daim bar was created by candy geniuses at the Marabou company in Sweden in 1952 after the Heath company sent them a list of ingredients of their original chocolate-covered toffee bar. Bad move, that.
Daim is a Swedish traditional product with a delicious and crunchy combination of caramel and chocolate. Whether the delicious Daim dragees, the crunchy Daim bars or the classics: all have an irresistible, crunchy core of butter and almond caramel coated with fine milk chocolate. 
Daim is a traditonal candy from Sweden. The inventor and manufacturer of this chocolate is the famous Swedish company called “Marabou”. Daim came on the Swedish market under the name of “Dajm” in 1953. It took some more years when Daim found its way to the Central European market. 1978 Germany, 1983 Austria, and 1988 France and many other European countries. Since 1989 Daim is also sold in Japan. Daim Chocolate is a hard and thin bar of chocolate. The coating consists of a delicious milk chocolate. This coating has a very full flavour, and is probably the best of the whole thing. The filling is a hard and crispy plate of cocoa butter, cocoa, butter, almonds, sugar and caramel.