1. An antigen is defined as a substance that reacts with antibody molecules and antigen receptors on lymphocytes. 2. An immunogen is an antigen that is recognized by the body as non-self and stimulates an adaptive immune response. 3. Chemically, antigens are large molecular weight proteins and polysaccharides. 4
An antigen is defined as a substance that reacts with antibody molecules and antigen receptors on lymphocytes. An immunogen is an antigen that is recognized by the body as non-self and stimulates an adaptive immune response. For simplicity, both antigens and immunogens are usually referred to as antigens. An antigen is defined as a substance that reacts with antibody molecules and antigen receptors on lymphocytes. 2
endogenous antigens. an example of these are: viral proteins produced during viral replication proteins produced by intracellular bacteria proteins that have escaped into the cytosol from the phagosome of phagocytes tumor antigens produced by cancer cells self peptides from human cell proteins. Examples of ____ - ____ _______: allergens (cause allergic reactions) foreign tissues and cells (from transplants and transfusions) cells that the body fails to recognize as normal self (autoimmune or cancer).
In immunology, an antigen (Ag) is any structural substance that serves as a target for the receptors of an adaptive immune response, TCR or BCR or its secreted form antibody. In summary an antigen is a molecule that binds to Ag-specific receptors, but cannot induce an immune response in the body by itself.
an example of a self antigen can be a Autoantigen: antigen that despite being a normal tissue constituent is the target of a humoral or cell mediated immune response, as in autoimmune disease.Autoantigen: Endogenous tissue constituents that have the ability to interact with AUTOANTIBODIES and cause an immune response. Self antigens are antigens present on SELF tissue that would normally not provoke an immune response unless in a diseased state. Autoimmune diseases happen when the body attacks its self antigens with antibodies made against it.
Best Answer: An antigen is any substance(usually proteins or polysaccharides) that can provoke antibody production by the immune system. Self antigens are antigens present on SELF tissue that would normally not provoke an immune response unless in a diseased state. Autoimmune diseases happen when the body attacks its self antigens with antibodies made against it.
• Active phagocytosis is required to take up exogenous antigens, unlike endogenous antigens. • An endogenous antigen can be a tumor-or virus-derived product. In contrast, exogenous antigen can be a product of viruses or bacterial cells that are processed by antigen presenting cells. The vast majority of antigens are exogenous antigens. They are introduced into the body from outside via various infections agents such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, protozoa, helminthes etc., or environmental substances such as dust mites, foodstuff, pollen etc. by inhalation, ingestion, or injection.
Endogenous antigen. Definition. noun. Antigen that is produced from within the cell as part of normal cell metabolism or when the cell is infected by bacteria or viruses. Supplement. For instance, when the virus infects the cell, antigens are formed and presented on the surface of the cell. 
by admin. Endogenous vs Exogenous Antigens. Any molecule or substance that reacts to a product of a specific immune response and stimulates antibody generation is considered as an antigen. The antibody generation by an antigen is called antigenicity of that particular molecule. Antigens can be either a protein or a polysaccharide. The vast majority of antigens are exogenous antigens. They are introduced into the body from outside via various infections agents such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, protozoa, helminthes etc., or environmental substances such as dust mites, foodstuff, pollen etc. by inhalation, ingestion, or injection.
A foreign antigen is an antigen that is present on nonself/foreign tissue. Examples of foreign antigens are components of microorganisms, foreign proteins and toxins. Self antigens are antigens present on SELF tissue that would normally not provoke an immune response unless in a diseased state. Autoimmune diseases happen when the body attacks its self antigens with antibodies made against it.