Starting salary. £16,000 + per year. As a recruitment consultant, you would help employers to find suitable staff, and match people to permanent and temporary jobs. If you are a confident person, have sales skills and can communicate well with people, this could be a career you would enjoy. Basic starting salaries for trainees are usually between £16,000 and £20,000 a year. With experience, this can rise to between £20,000 and £40,000 plus commission. Highly experienced recruitment consultants or recruitment managers can earn £40,000 or more.
A Recruitment Consultant earns an average salary of AU$52,193 per year. People in this job generally don't have more than 10 years' experience. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Attaining these very high total salaries often means putting in a lot of hard work to get promoted from consultant to manager, with the latter group earning far more. As shown in this chart, the majority of consultants are on a total salary of less than £30,000, while 52% of managers earn more than £50,000 a year. Hard work is also needed to earn bonuses and commissions – some of the extras that contribute to the total salary. In early 2013, the Recruitment & Employment Confederation (REC) conducted a survey of the salaries and benefits that consultants and managers working in recruitment agencies are receiving across the industry.
(South Africa). The average pay for a Recruitment Consultant is R128,608 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Human Resources and Client Interaction. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 10 years in this career.
Bonus is usually paid quarterly and depends on how many people they find work for, but generally speaking its about $15-20k per year for a junior consultant and $30-50k for more experienced or just plain good consultants... So really if you are looking for someone to get you a job... go to the one that makes the most money because they are the ones who find the most jobs people... I hear all the $170-200 rubbish all the time and YES there is people in recrutment that make that kind of money they are the BDM's..
http://www.philroskams.net-How Do Recruitment Consultants Make Money. If your thinking of starting a career in recruitment one question you may have is how do recruitment consultants make money. Typically a recruitment consultants salary will be a basic salary with the majority made up in commission. The commission comes from a percentage of the profit the agency makes from the client, so if they make £4000 from the placement and your commission is 10% you will be paid £400 commission. If it's a temporary placement you will usually be paid a percentage of your agency's profit for as long as the candidate works. Hopefully this has answered your question how do recruitment consultants make money
Income. Most recruitment consultants earn a basic salary plus commission. Basic starting salaries for trainees are usually between £16,000 and £20,000 a year. With experience, this can rise to between £20,000 and £40,000 plus commission. Highly experienced recruitment consultants or recruitment managers can earn £40,000 or more.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. Total Pay (?X