Burkitt are highly aggressive lymphomas. As such, the goal of treatment is usually to cure the disease with aggressive therapy. From OncologyChannel: Small noncleaved cell lymphoma (SNCL) is a classification that, in general, has been replaced by the terms Burkitt lymphoma and Burkitt-like (or non-Burkitt) lymphoma. In children, most SNCLs are Burkitt lymphomas, whereas most adult SNCLs are Burkitt-like lymphomas
The Revised European-American Lymphoma classification gives Burkitt-like lymphoma (BLL) provisional status, leaving unresolved the differential diagnosis with Burkitt lymphoma (BL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The category of high-grade Burkitt-like lymphoma (BLL) was proposed as a provisional entity by the International Lymphoma Study Group (ILSG) in the Revised European-American Lymphoma (REAL) classification published in 1994.
Overview. Burkitt’s lymphoma is a relatively rare and aggressive form of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma is a type of cancer of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system helps your body to fight infections
Burkitt's lymphoma is a high-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that is rapidly growing and aggressive. There are three main types of Burkitt's lymphoma: 1  Endemic: mainly occurs in equatorial Africa. 2  It is the most common malignancy of children in this area. 
Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is a highly aggressive B-cell lymphoma. All the symptoms are caused by rapid turnover of the mature B lymphocytes and the involvement of extranodal sites and invasion of contiguous organs. Patients with Burkitt-like lymphoma (BLL) may have a variable presentation compared with those with classic Burkitt lymphoma (BL). Patients with BLL usually present in their fourth or fifth decade of life.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is a cancer that starts in white blood cells called lymphocytes. It is also called DLBCL. It usually grows in lymph nodes -- the pea-sized glands in your neck, groin, armpits, and elsewhere that are part of your immune system. It can also show up in other areas of your body. 1 Immunodeficiency-associated. 2  This variant of Burkitt lymphoma is most common in people with HIV/AIDS. 3  It accounts for 30% to 40% of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in HIV patients and may be an AIDS-defining disease.
Burkitt lymphoma (Burkitt's tumor, Burkitt's lymphoma, or malignant lymphoma, Burkitt's type) is a cancer of the lymphatic system, particularly B lymphocytes found in the germinal center. It is named after Denis Parsons Burkitt, a surgeon who first described the disease in 1958 while working in equatorial Africa. 
Overview. Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is a rare, aggressive form of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a type of cancer that affects the organs of the immune system. It is more common in males than females. 