The Holocaust was a period of time from 1933 to 1945. It was the extermination of gypsies, homosexuals, Jews, communists, and other groups. Adolf Hitler was the leader of it a … ll, and committed suicide in 1945. From late 1942 on the Holocaust was reported in the media in Britain, the US and other countries. Pamplets appeared on the subject, even a book by Jan Karski which sold 400,000 copies in the US by the end of the war.
One final thing to consider about why the holocaust was allowed to take place is a sad fact of human nature. The Nazis had been denigrating and dehumanizing the Jews of Germany for nearly a decade before the holocaust began in earnest. This period of dehumanization likely had a dramatic effect on what people actually thought of the Jews. Many Germans considered the Jews to be a sub-race of humans, or barely human at all.
Because Hitler and the Nazi Party ruled Germany and wanted it to happen. He didn't broadcast the Holocaust to the world. He kept it a secret. He didn't start his Holocaust until World War II started. it was not allowed to happen. It was deliberately planned by one bunch of socialists, copied by a second bunch of socialists and denied by socialists in the western mass media-till the war reached their homes.
the fact that the people were afraid of Hitler was one reason why the Holocaust was allowed to happen. Also due to the fact that not many citizens knew or understood what was … going on. It was mostly ignorance. --- However, the ignorance was wilful-on all sides. From late 1942 on the Holocaust was reported in the media in Britain, the US and other countries. Pamplets appeared on the subject, even a book by Jan Karski which sold 400,000 copies in the US by the end of the war.
Best Answer: For two major reasons. 1. No one could believe that any civilized country would allow the wholesale slaughter of one race of people. In 1943 as the first reports of the Holocaust were filtering out to the Allies the men being told refused to report it up for that reason. Henry Mogul (sic) told a pole that he couldn't tell FDR because it was unimaginable that it was happening. it was not allowed to happen. It was deliberately planned by one bunch of socialists, copied by a second bunch of socialists and denied by socialists in the western mass media-till the war reached their homes.
The first thing to point out when examining the reasoning for why the holocaust happened is that Germany in the 1920's and 1930's was in a state of economic disrepair. This allowed a charismatic leader – Adolf Hitler – to rise to power and impose his will upon the German populace. The Nazis had been denigrating and dehumanizing the Jews of Germany for nearly a decade before the holocaust began in earnest. This period of dehumanization likely had a dramatic effect on what people actually thought of the Jews. Many Germans considered the Jews to be a sub-race of humans, or barely human at all.
Propaganda, ignorance, dehumanization, and the willingness to blindly follow a charismatic leader are all strong factors for why the Holocaust took place. This is not an exclusive list of factors, however it is a good starting point for understanding why this tragic historic event was allowed to happen. The Nazis had been denigrating and dehumanizing the Jews of Germany for nearly a decade before the holocaust began in earnest. This period of dehumanization likely had a dramatic effect on what people actually thought of the Jews. Many Germans considered the Jews to be a sub-race of humans, or barely human at all.
When the Nazis began their anti-Semitic outbursts, many people in the civilized world did not take them seriously...Hitler's ravings were just more political claptrap, and after a few heads were broken, there would be no more rowdyism. Many other people either publicly or privately applauded the anti-Semitic acts. I don't think it had much to do with the world being more 'uncaring' in the 1930s and 1940s than now. Once the Holocaust proper (the systematic mass murders) had started in 1941, there was the severely practical problem of how the Holocaust could realistically have been stopped by the Allies ...
Another thing to consider about how the holocaust was allowed to happen is that the Nazi party was not actively advertising what it was actually doing to the Jews. Many people thought the Jews were being deported or taken away to work. The Nazis had been denigrating and dehumanizing the Jews of Germany for nearly a decade before the holocaust began in earnest. This period of dehumanization likely had a dramatic effect on what people actually thought of the Jews. Many Germans considered the Jews to be a sub-race of humans, or barely human at all.
The Holocaust did not happen suddenly, it was the end of a long process of anti-Semitism. The Nazis had come to power in 1933, and used propaganda and terror to enforce their anti-Semitic policies. Laws were passed by the Nazis called the Nuremburg Laws. These laws took away all the human rights of Jews. Anti-Semitism was a large part of the Nazis ideas. Hitler wanted to exterminate all Jews. Many people in Germany supported the Nazis and their racist ideas. In history, we call those who do wrong or commit a crime, perpetrators.