A: With a few exceptions, early withdrawals from traditional or Roth IRAs generally incur a tax penalty equal to 10% of the taxable amount. To calculate the penalty on an early withdrawal, simply multiply the taxable distribution amount by 10%.
Early Withdrawal Penalty. The penalty equals 10 percent of the taxable portion of your early withdrawal. For example, if you take a fully taxable traditional IRA distribution of $5,000, you'll owe a $500 penalty. If only a portion of your withdrawal is taxable, the penalty only applies to that part of your distribution. 
Search: Withdrawing money from a qualified retirement plan, such as a Traditional IRA, 401(k) or 403(b) plan, among others, can create a sizable tax obligation. If you are under 59 1/2 you may also be subject to a 10% early withdrawal penalty. Unless you are have reached age 59-1/2, you will generally be required to pay a 10% early withdrawal penalty. In addition, your withdrawal is subject to income taxes in the year it was withdrawn*. After taxes and the 10% penalty**, it is not uncommon be left with less than 50% of your actual withdrawal.
Although the IRS imposes the 10% early withdrawal penalty to dissuade IRA participants from using their savings before retirement, this penalty is only applied to the withdrawal of taxable funds. If you withdraw funds that are not subject to income tax, there is no penalty for distributions taken at any time. With a few exceptions, early withdrawals from traditional or Roth IRAs generally incur a tax penalty equal to 10% of the taxable amount. To calculate the penalty on an early withdrawal, simply multiply the taxable distribution amount by 10%
But there are a variety of ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty if you meet specific criteria: Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2.
If you withdraw funds before age 59.5, the 10% penalty likely applies to the full amount of the distribution. After accounting for the impact of taxes and penalties, an early distribution from a traditional IRA is rarely an efficient use of funds. With a few exceptions, early withdrawals from traditional or Roth IRAs generally incur a tax penalty equal to 10% of the taxable amount. To calculate the penalty on an early withdrawal, simply multiply the taxable distribution amount by 10%
In 2010, the annual contribution limit to an IRA is $5,000, plus an additional $1,000 for those 50 or older. At age 59 1/2 you can take distributions from your IRA with no penalties, and the amount withdrawn is treated as ordinary income that year for income tax purposes. If you choose to take a distribution from your IRA prior to age 59 1/2, you will be assessed a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty. 
Multiply the taxable portion of your distribution by your federal marginal tax rate to calculate your federal income taxes on your early IRA withdrawal. For example, if you fall squarely in the middle of the 25 percent tax bracket, and $8,000 of your distribution is taxable, you'll pay $2,000 in federal income taxes. Step 3. Multiply the taxable portion of your distribution by your state marginal tax rate to figure your state income taxes on your early IRA withdrawal. For example, if you fall squarely in the middle of the 5 percent tax bracket and $8,000 of your distribution is taxable, you'll pay $400 in state
You cannot invest directly in an index. *Withdrawals from your qualified plan are taxed as ordinary income and may be subject to a 10% Federal tax penalty if taken prior to age 59 1/2. If you left your employer in or after the year in which you turned 55, you may not be subject to the 10% early withdrawal penalty. 