Report Abuse. You can join weight watchers for free for one week online. It will give you access to all the tools and information. After the free week you will be billed for 90 days which is $65.00. I found this to be a very good offer. You can also win a free 90 day membership on the site listed below. 
Report Abuse. If you live in Canada Weight Watchers costs $21.95/month plus a $39.95 starter/sign up fee (totaling $61.90 for the 1st month). If you use the coupon link below (3 Month Savings Plan-Save over 25%) you will pay $79.00 for 3 months (a savings of $26.80)! Good luck! http://www.canbuy.ca/weightwatchers.asp. Best Answer: I am currently paying $16.95 per month for weight watchers online. I joined via a free trial offer, which is available again if you are interested. Go to www.weightwatchers.com, scroll down, click on the free trial offer to the right in red
Weight Watchers is Expensive. We like nearly everything about the Weightwatchers program EXCEPT the cost. The least the program will set you back at promotional rates is around $60 a month. We understand that people might say, yes you have to pay, but this is for your health. Many weight loss diets and gimmicks come and go but with more than 45 years under their belt, weight watchers is one program to stand the test of time. In the fickle world of diets and weight management, a program does not survive without some proven results
Hi everyone! I looked online to see what it costs to go to a weight watchers meeting, but all it said was the $12 weekly fee. Can anyone tell me what to expect to pay aside from that if I want the calculator, and the dining out and food guides, and also the 3 month tracker? I just want to know what to expect when I go. To find out the cost of meetings go to www.weightwatchers.com/util/mtf/index.aspx The monthly pass is the cheapest way to attend meetings plus you get free eTools with it. In corporate areas, it is $39.95 per month.
Weight Watchers. Cost: Choose the 39.95 monthly pass, which includes unlimited meetings and online support. If you won’t go to meetings, try three months of online-only services for $53.85 (with automatic renewal at $17.95 a month thereafter), plus a $30 sign-up fee. 
The Weight Watchers program. Weight Watchers estimates that up to 2 pounds can be lost per week. Following the program, it would take between 13 and 25 weeks to lose 25 pounds. That will cost between $65 and $440 total, depending on how actively you wish to participate in the program. In addition to the online-only subscription, you can attend weekly meetings at a cost of between $10 and $15. Members are taught to manage food choices through the point system, says Liz Josefsberg, director of brand advocacy for Weight Watchers. Maybe an apple is zero points, but a candy bar is 10 points.
Offline or traditional Weight Watchers is a bit expensive than its online version due to involvement of infrastructure, manpower etc. Cost of traditional Weight Watchers is about $10 a week. However, this cost is likely to differ as per your state of residence. However, the difference is within the range of a couple of dollars. On an average, the cost of offline program is about $39.95. However, the members have to pay an additional one time sign up fee. Members can then get an access to various online and offline services by Weight Watchers. After attaining your weight loss goal and maintaining it for 6 weeks, you can become a life member for free. Online Weight Watchers is much cheaper with a monthly fee of $17.95. You are also charged $29.95 towards one time sign up fee. Thus, during the first month, you are expected to pay $47.90, whereas after that you are charged $17.95 each month, for three month