You usually get food poisoning from eating food contaminated with bacteria, viruses, or parasites. However, if you have food poisoning it is possible to pass those germs to someone else. Some of the most common types that are contagious are salmonella, E. coli, and norovirus. When you have food poisoning, your vomit and feces is full of these germs. That’s why it’s so important to disinfect areas that may be contaminated. 
Most people carry harmless strains of E. coli in their intestine. Both these and the strains that cause diarrhoea come from contaminated food or water. It can also be passed from animals to people and person-to-person through hand to mouth. Escherichia coli is a type of bacterium found in the intestines of many animals. Some strains can cause illness in people. Usually people suffer from diarrhoea which settles within a week.
Escherichia Coli (Definition). Escherichia coli is a type of bacteria that normally lives in the intestines of humans and animals. Most forms of the bacteria are harmless, but some strains may cause severe abdominal cramps, bloody diarrhea, and vomiting. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: E coli is a bacteria that is normally found in the gastrointestinal system. In the G I system it is considered good bacteria because it helps our system function properly. It is naturally eliminated in the stool. Anywhere else is can be deadly. 
People who are infected with E. coli are very contagious. Children shouldn't go to a day care center until they have 2 negative stool cultures (proof that the infection is gone). Older people in nursing homes should stay in bed until 2 stool cultures are negative. 
E. coli is the abbreviated version of Escherichia coli, a bacterium found in the lower intestines of mammals and birds. Although it is necessary intestinal bacteria that helps with the digestion of food, it can be very dangerous if ingested. 
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. Escherichia coli (abbreviated as E. coli) are a large and diverse group of bacteria. Although most strains of E. coli are harmless, others can make you sick. Some kinds of E. coli can cause diarrhea, while others cause urinary tract infections, respiratory illness and pneumonia, and other illnesses.
Some E. coli bacteria are contagious while others are not, depending on the E. coli strain and/or the infection type. Some strains that cause gastrointestinal problems (enteropathogenic E. coli) can be transmitted person-to-person, usually by the oral/fecal route, and even indirectly by contaminated food or water. Casual contact (shaking hands, kissing) will not usually transmit E. coli person to person. However, some strains of E. coli, including the diarrhea-causing enteropathogenic strains, can be contagious. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 6/29/2015.
There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals. Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Raw fruits and vegetables, such as lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, or unpasteurized apple cider or other unpasteurized juices that have come in contact with infected animal feces.
E. coli 0157:H7 is a type of E. coli bacteria that causes a serious infection involving the gastrointestinal tract. E. coli are bacteria found in the digestive tracts of humans and many animals. Usually, these bacteria are harmless and may even be beneficial. Not all of the E. coli bacteria are alike and, a few may produce infection, such as E. coli 0157:H7.