The moon is seen over Dresden, Germany, last week. Researchers say they filmed video of a meteorite impact that sets a new record as the brightest ever recorded. Arno Burgi/DPA /LANDOV hide caption. A meteorite that smashed into the moon last September caused a bright flash that persisted for 8 seconds, setting a new record for lunar impacts. The high-speed collision was recorded on video and would have been clearly visible to anyone on Earth who happened to look at the moon at the right time, scientists say.
Kaye Ballard made the first recording of the song in 1954. Since then it has become a frequently recorded jazz standard often featured in popular culture. Frank Sinatra 's 1964 version was closely associated with the Apollo missions to the Moon. In 1954, when writing the song which would become famous as Fly Me to the Moon, Bart Howard had been pursuing a career in music for more than 20 years.
Arno Burgi/DPA /LANDOV. The moon is seen over Dresden, Germany, last week. Researchers say they filmed video of a meteorite impact that sets a new record as the brightest ever recorded. Madiedo and his fellow scientists say the impact left a new crater on the moon that likely measures more than 130 feet in diameter. A meteorite that smashed into the moon last September caused a bright flash that persisted for 8 seconds, setting a new record for lunar impacts. The high-speed collision was recorded on video and would have been clearly visible to anyone on Earth who happened to look at the moon at the right time, scientists say.
Lunar Landing Mission. Apollo 11 was the first manned mission to land on the Moon. The first steps by humans on another planetary body were taken by Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin on July 20, 1969. The astronauts also returned to Earth the first samples from another planetary body. Astronaut Armstrong emerged from the spacecraft first. While descending, he released the Modularized Equipment Stowage Assembly (MESA) on which the surface television camera was stowed, and the camera recorded humankind's first step on the Moon at 109:24:19 GET (pictured at left).
Fly Me to the Moon [edit]. In 1960 Peggy Lee recorded the song then made it more popular when she performed it in front of a large television audience on The Ed Sullivan Show. As the song's popularity increased, it became better known as Fly Me to the Moon and in 1963 Peggy Lee convinced Bart Howard to make the name change official. In 1954, when writing the song which would become famous as Fly Me to the Moon, Bart Howard had been pursuing a career in music for more than 20 years.
In 1979, The Dark Side of the Moon was released as a remastered LP by Mobile Fidelity Sound Lab, and in April 1988 on their Ultradisc gold CD format. The album was released by EMI on the then-new compact disc format in 1984, and in 1992 it was re-released as a remastered CD in the box set Shine On. The group Voices on the Dark Side released the album Dark Side of the Moon a Cappella, a complete a cappella version of the album. The bluegrass band Poor Man's Whiskey frequently play the album in bluegrass style, calling the suite Dark Side of the Moonshine.
The Dark Side of the Moon was released first in the US on 1 March 1973, and then in the UK on 16 March. It became an instant chart success in Britain and throughout Western Europe; by the following month, it had gained a gold certification in the UK and US. The group Voices on the Dark Side released the album Dark Side of the Moon a Cappella, a complete a cappella version of the album. The bluegrass band Poor Man's Whiskey frequently play the album in bluegrass style, calling the suite Dark Side of the Moonshine.
The Dark Side of the Moon is the eighth studio album by the English progressive rock band Pink Floyd, released on 1 March 1973. The group Voices on the Dark Side released the album Dark Side of the Moon a Cappella, a complete a cappella version of the album. The bluegrass band Poor Man's Whiskey frequently play the album in bluegrass style, calling the suite Dark Side of the Moonshine.
Fly Me to the Moon , originally titled  In Other Words , is a popular song written in 1954 by Bart Howard. In 1954, when writing the song which would become famous as Fly Me to the Moon, Bart Howard had been pursuing a career in music for more than 20 years.