The gestation period of the animal is the time it takes between  conception and giving birth. The length of time this takes can have  great variety between the species but i … s usually associated with  the size of the animal. Elephants have one of the longest gestation period among mammals. They are pregnant for a period of around 22 months. After the 22 month gestation, they giver birth to a calf … that is approximately 250 pounds heavy and stands at around 2.5 feet tall. 1 person found this useful.
Tapirs have pregnancies of 440 days, while the African rhinoceros has a 480-day gestation. Large animals with much shorter gestation periods include tigers (103 days), reindeer (225 days), moose (240 days), and bison (270 days). Those with considerably longer pregnancies are camels (410 days) and giraffes (425 days)
Duration [edit]. For most species, the amount a fetus grows before birth determines the length of the gestation period. Smaller species normally have a shorter gestation period than larger animals. For example, a cat's gestation normally takes 58–65 days while an elephant's takes nearly 2 years (21 months). However, growth does not necessarily determine the length of gestation for all species, especially for those with a breeding season. 
Within similar animals, there is some variation as well: grizzly bears have an average gestation period of 225 days, but black bears have an average of 210 days, and polar bears have an average of 240 days. Larger animals, which require more time to develop before being born, often stay in the womb longer than humans. 
And the gestation periods of chimpanzees (237 days), gorilla (257 days) and orangutan (260 days) indicate that the approximate nine-month gestation period predates the emergence of human beings as a species. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats. Even within the species of apes and monkeys gestation period seem to be a matter of size.
The gestation periods of other animal reveals that the length of the gestation period is largely a matter of the animal specie's size. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats. Even within the species of apes and monkeys gestation period seem to be a matter of size. For Rhesus monkeys it is 164 days and baboons 187 days. For small animals such as rabbits the period is about 33 days and for mice about 20 days
The gestation period of humans is 266 days, 8 days short of nine months. Many such biological characteristics have an explanation in terms evolutionary survival value. Even some seemingly cultural characteristics of human society have such a biological explanation. Asian elephants have a gestation period of 645 days and African elephants 640 days. Dogs and other canines have a gestation period of about 60, which is also the period for cats. Even within the species of apes and monkeys gestation period seem to be a matter of size.
The gestation period of the animal is the time it takes between  conception and giving birth. The length of time this takes can have  great variety between the species but i … s usually associated with  the size of the animal. Elephants have one of the longest gestation period among mammals. They are pregnant for a period of around 22 months. After the 22 month gestation, they giver birth to a calf … that is approximately 250 pounds heavy and stands at around 2.5 feet tall. 1 person found this useful.