Gymnosperms (naked-seeds) include plants that usually bear their seeds in cone-like structures as opposed to the angiosperms (flowering plants) that have seeds enclosed in an ovary. Modern gymnosperms include the following extant divisions: Pinophyta, Ginkgophyta, Cycadophyta, and Gnetopyta. 
Gymnosperms, like all vascular plants, have a sporophyte-dominant life cycle. The gametophyte (gamete-bearing phase) is relatively short-lived. Two spore types, microspores and megaspores, are typically produced in pollen cones or ovulate cones, respectively. Gymnosperm seeds develop either on the surface of scales or leaves, often modified to form cones, or at the end of short stalks as in Ginkgo.
An Overview of the Conifers. The division Pinophyta (sometimes refered to in older texts as the Coniferophyta or the Coniferae) are gymnosperms that are commonly called conifers. All conifers are woody plants that have cones, and have vascular tissue. Phylum Pinophyta-Conifers. The division Pinophyta (sometimes refered to in older texts as the Coniferophyta or the Coniferae) are gymnosperms that are commonly called conifers.
Modern gymnosperms are classified into four phyla. Coniferophyta, Cycadophyta, and Ginkgophyta are similar in their production of secondary cambium (cells that generate the vascular system of the trunk or stem and are partially specialized for water transportation) and their pattern of seed development. The layer of sporophyte tissue that surrounds the megasporangium, and later, the embryo, is called the integument. Gymnosperms were the dominant phylum in Mesozoic era. They are adapted to live where fresh water is scarce during part of the year, or in the nitrogen-poor soil of a bog.
Conifers (Coniferophyta). Conifers are the dominant phylum of gymnosperms, with the most variety of species ([link]). Most are typically tall trees that usually bear scale-like or needle-like leaves. Water evaporation from leaves is reduced by their thin shape and the thick cuticle. The layer of sporophyte tissue that surrounds the megasporangium, and later, the embryo, is called the integument. Gymnosperms were the dominant phylum in Mesozoic era. They are adapted to live where fresh water is scarce during part of the year, or in the nitrogen-poor soil of a bog.
THE GYMNOSPERMS. Gymnosperms include all seed-bearing plants whose ovules are exposed such that the pollen goes through the micropyle during pollination. The seed, one of the most marvelous products of evolution, is so complex that all seed plants must be monophyletic. (2006 & 2007) show the flowering plants as sisters to the gymnosperms. Further, they show that the cycads and ginkgophytes are basal in the gymnosperm line. An interesting outcome of their molecular analyses is the monophyletic clade, Pinaceae + Gnetophyta (called the Gne-Pine Hypothesis, Figure 2-A).
Their naked condition stands in contrast to the seeds and ovules of flowering plants (angiosperms), which are enclosed within an ovary. Gymnosperm seeds develop either on the surface of scales or leaves, often modified to form cones, or at the end of short stalks as in Ginkgo. The gymnosperms and angiosperms together compose the spermatophytes or seed plants. By far the largest group of living gymnosperms are the conifers (pines, cypresses, and relatives), followed by cycads, gnetophytes (Gnetum, Ephedra and Welwitschia), and Ginkgo (a single living species)
The conifers, division Pinophyta, also known as division Coniferophyta or Coniferae, are one of 12 extant division-level taxa within the Kingdom Plantae (Viridiplantae) and 10 within the extant land plants. Pinophytes are gymnosperms, cone-bearing seed plants with vascular tissue. All extant conifers are woody plants with secondary growth, the great majority being trees with just a few being shrubs. Typical examples of conifers include cedars, Douglas-firs, cypresses, firs, junipers, kauri, larches, pines, hemlocks, redwoods, spruces, and yews.