An example of a balloon payment mortgage is the 7-year Fannie Mae Balloon, which features monthly payments based on a 30-year amortization. In the United States, the amount of the balloon payment must be stated in the contract if Truth-in-Lending provisions apply to the loan. A balloon payment mortgage is a mortgage which does not fully amortize over the term of the note, thus leaving a balance due at maturity.
For example, if a buyer obtains a seven-year balloon mortgage to purchase a home, he has seven years of equal monthly payments at a fixed interest rate. This rate is often lower than what the buyer would otherwise be able to secure under a traditional mortgage loan. Most borrowers use the balloon mortgage when they intend to sell the home before the balloon payment is due. For example, homebuyers who know that their employer will relocate them to another city or state within a few years often opt for a balloon mortgage.
A mortgage with a balloon payment requires monthly mortgage payments for a period of five or seven years, then a balloon payment of the remainder of the mortgage balance. The monthly payments for the period before the balloon is due are usually calculated based on a 30-year amortization schedule. A balloon mortgage is used to achieve a low monthly payment on an investment property for a limited amount of time. The monthly payment with a 30-year amortization will be lower than if the property is financed with a 15 or 20-year mortgage.
In a balloon mortgage, the payment is due within a specified period of time that is usually no less than one year and no more than five years. Make monthly payments on a balloon mortgage with tips from a licensed mortgage broker in this free video on personal finance and real estate. Balloon mortgage is just like a regular mortgage except the main difference is that a balloon mortgage is all do, that's the amount of the loan the principle all due within a specified period of time usually no less than a year and no more than five years. The payment on your balloon mortgage is the same.
A balloon mortgage can be an excellent option for many homebuyers. A balloon mortgage is usually rather short, with a term of 5 years to 7 years, but the payment is based on a term of 30 years. They often have a lower interest rate, and it can be easier to qualify for than a traditional 30-year-fixed mortgage. There is, however, a risk to consider
A balloon mortgage is a short-term, fixed rate home loan with fixed monthly payments for a set number of years (usually 5-10) followed by a final payment of the principal. Payments are usually lower with a balloon mortgage because only the interest is paid each month. For example, borrowing $10,000 in a balloon mortgage means that a large payment is due in one lump sum at the end of the term. Note that if you cannot make the final payment or refinance the amount, you can lose your home
In a balloon mortgage, the payment is due within a specified period of time that is usually no less than one year and no more than five years. Make monthly payments on a balloon mortgage with tips from a licensed mortgage broker in this free video on personal finance and real estate. Expert: Adriel Torres. 
Watch Related Videos. comments. A 15 year balloon mortgage is a type of loan in which you will make principal and interest payments for 15 years. Then at the end of the 15 year term, you will have to pay a balloon payment that is equal to the amount of money that you still owe. Amortization schedules. 