Cost loading a schedule using a single material resource that is set up to auto calculate $ from Units. Each unit is equal to 1 $. You may substitute multiple resources if desired and follow the same steps. 1  Financial Periods need to be defined by your P6 Admin. 1 Resources Created with $ Associated. 2  In the Activities Window, select the activities to be cost loaded and assign the resource adjusting the budgeted units to the desired $ amount. 3  As the resources are assigned the $ are also assigned on a flat curve by default.
2004 AACEI Annual Meeting Sheafer / page 15 Challenges to Cost-Loading a Project Schedule  Parties involved  Owner  Wants to stay within budget  Construction Manager  Wants to monitor costs  General Contractor / Sub-Contractors  Wants control over how “costs” are entered. 2004 AACEI Annual Meeting Sheafer / page 14 Challenges to Cost-Loading a Project Schedule  Parties involved  Owner  Designer (not typically involved)  Construction Manager  General Contractor / Sub-Contractors.
2004 AACEI Annual Meeting Sheafer / page 13 Challenges to Cost-Loading a Project Schedule  Parties involved  Each party has the intent to fulfill the contract requirements  Each party may have a different concept as to what “cost-loaded” infers. 2004 AACEI Annual Meeting Sheafer / page 14 Challenges to Cost-Loading a Project Schedule  Parties involved  Owner  Designer (not typically involved)  Construction Manager  General Contractor / Sub-Contractors.
Cost Loading with Stored Period Actuals, Scenario 3. Cost loading a schedule using resources that are set up to auto calculate $ from Units. Each unit is equal to $ value. The resources are assigned to multiple Activities and we will store period performance. 1  Financial Periods need to be defined by your P6 Admin
2004 AACEI Annual Meeting Sheafer / page 18 Challenges to Cost-Loading a Project Schedule  Cost definitions  Sample 3 (see note 3)  Level 8: Cost Code-The cost code of the Project will be defined by the Contractor. However, the cost code needs to follow the guidelines of WBS herein. 2004 AACEI Annual Meeting Sheafer / page 14 Challenges to Cost-Loading a Project Schedule  Parties involved  Owner  Designer (not typically involved)  Construction Manager  General Contractor / Sub-Contractors.
Cost load is to apply Budgeted Cost to the required activities with necessary cost account and resource. It is another version of BQ and used for progress payment. 
Re: Cost Loaded schedule ! Cost loaded schedules are ideal to get your cash-outflow however you never have enough & accurate info to support it. Theoretically, you can load cost (different types) to each activity in P6 in the similar fashion you load resources to it. This helps in analysing the cash expenditure over the period of time and thus help in preparing project cashflow.
Cost Loading into Primavera P6 with Legare. Loading profiled cost data into Primavera P6 is a time-consuming and expensive process – which typically involves typing in the values in cell-by-cell. Typically known as bucket loading , this task is frequently open to error and can be a considerable drain on planners' time. Legare has the capability to transfer key project data from Excel direct into P6. The cost loader is a simple to use and very effective application gives you the ability to load cost schedules into Primavera
Task Executing Software for multiple users. Free Trial. Schedule Cost Loading (creating a cost loaded schedule) is a process of depiction of the budgeting matters on a graph, along with a time scale, such as the project-or business-related costs, fringes, overheads and profits.