Enteric fermentation occurs when methane (CH 4) is produced in the rumen as microbial fermentation takes place. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Enteric fermentation is a digestive process by which carbohydrates are broken down by microorganisms into simple molecules for absorption into the bloodstream of an animal. It is one of the factors in increased methane emissions
Some carbon dioxide is used by the intestinal microbes and by the cow to maintain bicarbonate levels in saliva. Methane cannot be used by the cow’s body systems as a source of energy. 5.3 Digestion of protein Protein, when digested, is broken down into peptides, which are short chains of amino acids. 5.2 Carbohydrate digestion in the rumen When food is eaten by the cow, the nutrients are initially in the form of carbohydrates, proteins and fats (or lipids). These are digested to products, which can be used directly by the cow or by the microbes in the rumen.Plant tissue dry matter is about 75% carbohydrate.
The process of fermentation takes place in the rumen and the reticulum. Fermentation is when microorganisms convert carbohydrates into volatile fatty acids and gases. This process allows the cow to convert cellulosic fiber into energy. The rumen is the largest, with a volume of 150–200 litres (40-50 gallons). In the digestion system there are billions of microorganisms. They help the cow to digest and utilize nutrients in the feed. To achieve efficient feed utilization and high milk yield, the bacteria must have optimal conditions.
Share to: Lactic acid fermentation occurs in the absence of oxygen (it's anaerobic). Basically, it's glycolysis (the breakdown of a sugar-most of the time glucose is used as an exampl … e) to produce 2 ATP and 2NADH (NAD+ and 2 electrons) and 2 pyruvate molecules in the end. 
1. Rumen & Reticulum (also called the “Reticulo-rumen” or simply the “Rumen”): The capacity of an adult dairy cow’s rumen is about 184 liters (49 gallons) and the reticulum is about 16 liters (4.25 gallons). It is one of the most dense microbial habitats in the world. Microscopic organisms called rumen microbes break down (or digest) ingested feed by a fermentation process. The rumen is the major site of fermentation in the cow. There are1,000,000,000 to 10,000,000,000 bacteria per ml, 1,000,000 protozoa per ml, and a variable amount of fungi. 
Over 200 species of microorganisms are present in the rumen, although only about 10% of these play an important role in digestion. Most of the CH 4 byproduct is belched by the animal, however, a small percentage of CH 4 is also produced in the large intestine and passed out as flatulence. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Enteric fermentation is a digestive process by which carbohydrates are broken down by microorganisms into simple molecules for absorption into the bloodstream of an animal. It is one of the factors in increased methane emissions
Most nutrient absorption occurs in the small intestine. 5.1.7 Large intestine The large intestine, mainly the caecum and colon, is the site of secondary fermentation, particularly of fibre. About 10% to 15% of the energy used by the cow is absorbed from the large intestine. Absorption of water, minerals and ammonia also occurs here. 5.2 Carbohydrate digestion in the rumen When food is eaten by the cow, the nutrients are initially in the form of carbohydrates, proteins and fats (or lipids). These are digested to products, which can be used directly by the cow or by the microbes in the rumen.Plant tissue dry matter is about 75% carbohydrate.
It is not the cow that digests the feed but the bacteria in the rumen, which does the most of this work. The rumen contains billion bacteria and more specially, 1 mL of rumen fluid contains 10-50 billion microbes and over 1 million protozoa. These bacteria attach to the feed particles to digest the feed. RUMEN (picture 1) : This is the first compartment of the cattle’s stomach and where fermentation occurs, which allows for the digestion of fiber and other feeds. This is the largest compartment of the stomach and can hold up to 50 gallons of digested feed.
The rumen, also known as a paunch, forms the larger part of the reticulorumen, which is the first chamber in the alimentary canal of ruminant animals. It serves as the primary site for microbial fermentation of ingested feed. The uppermost area of the rumen, the headspace, is filled with gases (such as methane, carbon dioxide, and, to a much lower degree, hydrogen) released from fermentation and anaerobic respiration of food.