Your have external obliques and internal obliques. The external oblique is the largest muscle closest to the surface on your side. Its main job is to pull the chest downwards and compress the abdominal cavity. The internal obliques, on the other hand, have two main jobs. A Todd Townes-Sharecare Fitness Expert, Fitness, answered on behalf of Sharecare Fitness. Your oblique muscles help you bend from side to side and twist your torso. If you obliques are strong the support the lower back and improve posture.
Your oblique muscles are a key component of the abdomen as they let you bend sideways and twist your trunk. They also help somewhat with breathing. The top of the obliques connects with the ribs while the lower end connects with the hip bone. Oblique Muscle Strain. The obliques are one of the muscle groups within the abdominal muscles. Abdominal strain, including oblique muscle strain, is common among active people and athletes since the muscles are constantly engaged.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The external oblique muscle (of the abdomen) (also external abdominal oblique muscle) is the largest and the most superficial (outermost) of the three flat muscles of the lateral anterior abdomen. The external oblique is situated on the lateral and anterior parts of the abdomen. It is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeurosis the anterior wall
External oblique. The external oblique muscle is one of the largest parts of the trunk area. Each side of the body has an external oblique muscle. The external oblique muscle is one of the outermost abdominal muscles, extending from the lower half of the ribs around and down to the pelvis. Together, the external oblique muscles cover the sides of the abdominal area. The intercostal and subcostal nerves connect the external oblique muscles to the brain. The external obliques on either side not only help rotate the trunk, but they perform a few other vital functions. These muscles help pull the chest, as a whole, downwards, which compresses the abdominal cavity. Although relatively minor in scope, the external oblique muscle also supports the rotation of the spine
Many people confuse Obliques muscles and thus the obliques exercises with love handles, muffin top or Adonis belt, but in reality it is a completely different story. Without getting into technical details, Obliques are of two type and both of them basically laterally surround your upper abdominal muscles. #1 Dumbbell Side Bends. To max-out the benefits from Dumbbell Side bends, that is one of the best oblique muscle exercise you essentially have to maximize the extent of bend. You have to completely stretch your way down and relax when you move back. 1  Hold a dumbbell in each hand.
External Abdominal Oblique Muscle. The external abdominal obliques are a pair of broad, thin, superficial muscles that lie on the lateral sides of the abdominal region of the body. Contraction of these muscles may result in several different actions, but they are best known for their lateral flexion and rotation of the trunk known as a side bend. Muscle fibers in the external obliques run medially and inferiorly from the origins to the insertions across the lateral sides of the abdomen and end just lateral to the rectus abdominis muscles. The location and structure of the external abdominal obliques gives them many different possible actions.
Your oblique muscles (side abdominals) help you to bend from the side or twist your torso. Strong obliques support the lower back, warding off back pain and posture problems. The abs include the Rectus abdominis, the Transversus abdominis, and a pair of muscles called the obliques. The oblique muscles actually include the following pair of muscles on each of your sides: 1  The external obliques form the top muscle. 2  The internal obliques lie underneath the external obliques.
Oblique muscle strain can occur for a variety of reasons, but it is more likely to occur during certain activities that require the use of these muscles. Keep in mind that your obliques connect your lower back, abdominal fascia, top portion of your hip bone, and ribs. Oblique Muscle Strain. The obliques are one of the muscle groups within the abdominal muscles. Abdominal strain, including oblique muscle strain, is common among active people and athletes since the muscles are constantly engaged.
1 Worsening pain. 2  When muscle fibers in the oblique muscles constrict, there is insufficient blood flow to the damaged area. 3  This can sometimes lead to a buildup of lactic acid, which disrupts your body’s natural pH balance and causes sharp, stinging pain that feels like knots in your muscles. 1 When an oblique muscle is strained or pulled, the muscle fibers contract at the same time and become tight and stiff. 2  This results in insufficient blood flow to the affected area and the sensation of muscle spasms and general muscle stiffness.