Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Inherited metabolic disorders refer to different types of medical conditions caused by genetic defects — most commonly inherited from both parents — that interfere with the body's metabolism. These conditions may also be called inborn errors of metabolism
Your risk for heart disease, diabetes, and stroke increases with the number of metabolic risk factors you have. In general, a person who has metabolic syndrome is twice as likely to develop heart disease and five times as likely to develop diabetes as someone who doesn't have metabolic syndrome. The risk of having metabolic syndrome is closely linked to overweight and obesity and a lack of physical activity. Insulin resistance also may increase your risk for metabolic syndrome. Insulin resistance is a condition in which the body can't use its insulin properly.
IDF Worldwide Definition of the Metabolic Syndrome. The metabolic syndrome is a cluster of the most dangerous heart attack risk factors: diabetes and prediabetes, abdominal obesity, high cholesterol and high blood pressure. 1 A quarter of the world’s adults have metabolic syndrome. 2  People with metabolic syndrome are twice as likely to die from, and three times as likely to have a heart attack or stroke compared with people without the syndrome. 3  People with metabolic syndrome have a five-fold greater risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
Metabolic syndrome is associated with the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Some studies have shown the prevalence in the USA to be an estimated 34% of the adult population, and the prevalence increases with age. Metabolic syndrome and prediabetes may be the same disorder, just diagnosed by a different set of biomarkers. The syndrome is thought to be caused by an underlying disorder of energy utilization and storage.
Definition of Metabolic diseases, inherited. Metabolic diseases, inherited: Also called inborn errors of metabolism, these are heritable (genetic) disorders of biochemistry. Examples include albinism, cystinuria (a cause of kidney stones), phenylketonuria (PKU), and some forms of gout, sun sensitivity, and thyroid disease
metabolic. pertaining to or of the nature of metabolism. metabolic disease a disease caused by some defect in the chemical reactions of the cells of the body. metabolic syndrome a combination including at least three of the following: abdominal obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, low level of high-density lipoproteins, hypertension, and high fasting plasma glucose level. see metabolic diseases. molecular disease. any disease in which the pathogenesis can be traced to a single, precise chemical alteration, usually of a protein, which is either abnormal in structure or present in reduced amounts. The corresponding defect in the DNA coding for the protein may also be known.
Metabolic syndrome is also known as metabolic syndrome X, cardiometabolic syndrome, syndrome X, insulin resistance syndrome, Reaven's syndrome (named for Gerald Reaven), and CHAOS (in Australia). Metabolic syndrome and prediabetes may be the same disorder, just diagnosed by a different set of biomarkers. The syndrome is thought to be caused by an underlying disorder of energy utilization and storage.