The basic process of viral infection and virus replication occurs in 6 main steps. 1  Adsorption-virus binds to the host cell. 2  Penetration-virus injects its genome into host cell. 3  Viral Genome Replication-viral genome replicates using the host's cellular machinery. Viruses may infect any type of cell including animal cells, plant cells and bacterial cells. To view an example of the process of viral infection and virus replication, see Virus Replication: Bacteriophage.
The main idea behind viral processing is to stop the viruses in a given sample from infecting the desired product. The two most widely used methods of viral processing are viral removal and viral inactivation. The former is a method in which all viruses are simply removed from the sample completely. The latter method is one in which the viruses may remain in the final product, but in a non-infective form. These techniques are used widely in the food and blood plasma industries, as those products can be harmed by the presence of viral particles.
1 Uncoating is the step in which viral enzymes degrade the virus capsid; sometimes host enzymes also play a role in this dissolution, that then exposes the viral genome to the interior of the host cell's chemical factory. A virus is a microscopic organism that can replicate only inside the cells of a host organism. Most viruses are so tiny they are only observable with at least a conventional optical microscope.
In order to produce new copies of itself, a virus must use the host cell's reproductive machinery.. The newly made viruses then leave the host cell, sometimes killing it in the process, and proceed to infect other cells within the organism. The second pathway available to viruses is called the lytic cycle. In the lytic cycle, the virus first attaches itself to the surface of the host cell. It then makes a hole in the cell membrane and injects its genetic material (DNA or RNA).
A viral video is a video that becomes popular through a viral process of Internet sharing, typically through video sharing websites, social media and email. More recently, the Kony 2012 video by Invisible Children, Inc. became the most viral video in history with over 34,000,000 views on the first day of its upload on 5 March 2012 and as of late 2013 has over 100,000,000 views. Another recent example is Gangnam Style by PSY.
A viral infection is any type of illness or disease caused by a virus, a type of microbe. Microbes are tiny organisms that cannot be seen without a microscope and include bacteria, fungi, and some parasites, as well as viruses. A viral infection occurs when a virus enters the body through such processes as breathing air contaminated with a virus, eating contaminated food, or by having sexual contact with a person who is infected with a virus. A viral infection may also be caused by an insect bite. In a viral infection, the virus invades the inside of the body's cells in order to reproduce. A virus then spreads to other cells and repeats the process. This process of viral infection results in a variety of symptoms that vary in character and severity depending on the type of viral infection and individual factor
Single-stranded RNA viruses however, replicate mainly in the host cell's cytoplasm. Once a virus infects its host and the viral progeny components are produced by the host's cellular machinery, the assembly of the viral capsid is a non-enzymatic process. It is usually spontaneous. Viruses may infect any type of cell including animal cells, plant cells and bacterial cells. To view an example of the process of viral infection and virus replication, see Virus Replication: Bacteriophage.
The virus obtains the lipid molecules from the cell membrane during the viral budding process. However, the virus replaces the proteins in the cell membrane with its own proteins, creating a hybrid structure of cell-derived lipids and virus-derived proteins. 
Knowledge center. A virus (from the Latin virus meaning toxin or poison) is a microscopic organism consisting of genetic material (RNA or DNA) surrounded by a protein, lipid (fat), or glycoprotein coat. 