Deflation is an economic term used to describe a period of declining prices for goods and services. Decreases in the money supply, government spending, consumer demand and business investment ... Deflation, or negative inflation, happens when prices fall because the supply of goods is higher than the demand for those ...
In economics, inflation is a sustained increase in the general price level of goods and services in an economy over a period of time. However, most economists today use the term inflation to refer to a rise in the price level. An increase in the money supply may be called monetary inflation, to distinguish it from rising prices, which may also for clarity be called price inflation.
DEFINITION of 'Deflation'. A general decline in prices, often caused by a reduction in the supply of money or credit. Deflation can be caused also by a decrease in government, personal or investment spending. The opposite of inflation, deflation has the side effect of increased unemployment since there is a lower level of demand in the economy, which can lead to an economic depression. Deflation, or negative inflation, happens when prices fall because the supply of goods is higher than the demand for those ...
Definition of 'Deflation'. Tweet. When the overall price level decreases so that inflation rate becomes negative, it is called deflation. It is the opposite of inflation. Definition: When the overall price level decreases so that inflation rate becomes negative, it is called deflation. It is the opposite of the often-encountered inflation. Description: A reduction in money supply or credit availability is the reason for deflation in most cases.
1 Inflation is an increase in the price of a basket of goods and services that is representative of the economy as a whole. 2  Inflation is an upward movement in the average level of prices. 3  Its opposite is deflation, a downward movement in the average level of prices. Because inflation is a rise in the general level of prices, it is intrinsically linked to money, as captured by the often heard refrain  Inflation is too many dollars chasing too few goods.
Not to be confused with Deflation. Disinflation is a decrease in the rate of inflation – a slowdown in the rate of increase of the general price level of goods and services in a nation's gross domestic product over time. It is the opposite of reflation. 
Deflation has often had the side effect of increasing unemployment in an economy, since the process often leads to a lower level of demand in the economy. opposite of inflation. “ You should try and figure out a way to be prepared for any deflation and make the correct adjustments on time. 
Answer: To understand inflation, we first must understand what the word means. The Economics Glossary defines Inflation as: 1  Inflation is an increase in the price of a basket of goods and services that is representative of the economy as a whole. 2  Inflation is an upward movement in the average level of prices. 3  Its opposite is deflation, a downward movement in the average level of prices. Because inflation is a rise in the general level of prices, it is intrinsically linked to money, as captured by the often heard refrain  Inflation is too many dollars chasing too few goods.
In the most general sense, inflation is a rise in the average price of goods over a period of time. The rate that prices increase is known as the inflation rate. Inflation happens either when prices go up or when it takes more money to buy the same items. 
In economics, deflation is a decrease in the general price level of goods and services. Deflation occurs when the inflation rate falls below 0% (a negative inflation rate). This should not be confused with disinflation, a slow-down in the inflation rate (i.e., when inflation declines to lower levels). Inflation reduces the real value of money over time; conversely, deflation increases the real value of money — the currency of a national or regional economy. 1 Growth deflation: an enduring decrease in the real cost of goods and services as the result of technological progress, accompanied by competitive price cuts, resulting in an increase in aggregate demand.