Change the style of chart elements manually. Click the chart. Tip This displays the Chart Tools, adding the Design, Layout, and Format tabs. On the Format tab, in the Current Selection group, click the arrow in the Chart Elements box, and then select the chart element that you want to format. Click the chart, or do the following to select the chart element for which you want to change the layout from a list of chart elements: Click a
Note. When you change a formatting element on a tab in the Format Cells dialog box that was not selected on the Style dialog box, Excel automatically checks that element for you; it becomes part of that style. Select any format options you want for the new style and then click OK to return to the Style dialog box. To create a new style. Select the cell and do one of the following: In Excel 97 through 2003: Click the Format menu and then click Style. In Excel 2007: Click the Home tab and in the Styles group, click the Cell Styles button. In the Style Name box, type a name for the new style. By default, all formatting elements are checked. Clear the checkboxes for the formatting elements you want to omit from the style you are creating
You can add and delete sheets, but you can also change the number of default sheets, as follows: 1  Click the File tab and then click Options (under Help). 2  In Excel 2007, click the Office button and then click Excel Options. 3  In Excel 2003, choose Options from the Tools menu. 4  Click General in the left pane. Make the changes you want to implement at the template level and then save the workbook as a template: 1  Click the File tab and choose Save As. 2  Choose Excel Template (.xltx) from the Save As Type drop-down, as shown in Figure E. 3  Locate the XLStart folder using the Save In control. 4  Click Save.
Select a predefined chart style. Click the chart that you want to format. Tip This displays the Chart Tools, adding the Design, Layout, and Format tabs. On the Design tab, in the Chart Styles group, click the chart style that you want to use. Tip To see all predefined chart styles, click More. Note When the Excel window is reduced in size, chart styles will be available in the Chart Quick Styles gallery in the Chart Styles group. Click the chart, or do the following to select the chart element for which you want to change the layout from a list of chart elements: Click a char
You can quickly change this default and save workbooks where you want automatically, as follows: 1  Click the File tab and choose Options (under Help). 2  In Excel 2007, click the Office button and then click Excel Options. 3  In Excel 2003, choose Options from the Tools menu. 4  In the left pane, choose Save. Make the changes you want to implement at the template level and then save the workbook as a template: 1  Click the File tab and choose Save As. 2  Choose Excel Template (.xltx) from the Save As Type drop-down, as shown in Figure E. 3  Locate the XLStart folder using the Save In control. 4  Click Save.
1 Select the cells to which you want to apply shading. 2  On the Format menu, click Cells, and then click the Patterns tab. 3  To include a background color with the pattern, click a color in the Cell shading box. 4  Click the arrow next to the Pattern box, and then click the pattern style and color that you want. Patterns Tab. 1 
To change the default font, do the following: 1  Click the File tab and then click Options (under Help). 2  Choose General (if necessary) from the left pane. 3  In the When Creating New Workbooks section, change the Use This Font (Standard Font in Excel 2003) and Font Size options, as shown in Figure D. 4  Click OK. Make the changes you want to implement at the template level and then save the workbook as a template: 1  Click the File tab and choose Save As. 2  Choose Excel Template (.xltx) from the Save As Type drop-down, as shown in Figure E. 3  Locate the XLStart folder using the Save In control. 4  Click Save.
How styles work. A style is just a set of cell formatting settings which has been given a name. All cells to which a style has been applied look the same formatting-wise. 
No worries. It’s easy to change it back. To change from the R1C1 cell reference style back to to the A1 style, we will change a setting in the options. Click the “File” tab. On the backstage screen, click “Options” in the list of items on the left. On the “Excel Options” dialog box, click “Formulas” in the list of items on the left. In the “Working with formulas” section, select the “R1C1 reference style” check box so there is NO check mark in the box. Click “OK” to accept the change and close the “Excel Options” dialog box