Your body can digest most food in less time it takes hotshot celebrities to get engaged: about 4-12 hours. Fruits are the fastest travelers on the intestinal interstate, with meats driving like an oversized load in the right lane (they can take 2-3 days to be excreted or even longer as it rots inside your intestine). A steak dinner can take you two, maybe three days to get out of your intestine. What that means is the way you digest it is basically to rot it in your intestines. On the other hand, if you eat vegetables and fruits, they're out of your system in less than 12 hours..
Change text size for the story. Print. Report an error. Digestion time varies depending on the individual. For most healthy adults, it's usually between 24 and 72 hours. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion and absorption of water. Elimination of undigested food residue through the large intestine usually begins after a total of 24 hours. 
The colon also is where some water in your stool is absorbed. Digestion through the large intestine typically takes longer than the stomach and small intestines -- about 24 hours, according to MayoClinic.com. From the colon, the digestive material is moved to the rectum, where it remains until you have a bowel movement. 
Digestion can take anywhere from 24 to 72 hours, during which time the food you’ve eaten travels down your esophagus to your stomach, then to your small intestine, your large intestine, and out through the anus. 
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. In the 1980s, Mayo Clinic researchers measured digestion time in 21 healthy people. Total transit time, from eating to elimination in stool, averaged 53 hours (although that figure is a little overstated, because the markers used by the researchers passed more slowly through the stomach than actual food).
It takes about 24-72 hours for most people’s digestive tract to do its job on the food eaten…depends on the person, the food, the person’s state of health, medications they might be on, their emotions, etc…but, on the whole 1-3 days will completely digest, or break apart, the food. Dear Kandice: Rest assured, it does not take the stomach one hundred years to digest a cherry. It takes about four hours for most of the food from a meal to leave the stomach and be absorbed by the intestine. The hard, round pit, or seed of a cherry, would be more difficult for the stomach to digest
However for clear understanding, digestion time will solely depend on the type of food consumed by an individual. For example fruit and veggies take 30 minutes to digest, liquids take about 20 minutes, carbohydrates take 3 hours and meat takes 24 hours. This is why it is advisable to drink lots of water, eat lots of fruit and veg, but limit your consumption of meat. Food digestion rates also depend on the gut transit. 
After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion and absorption of water. Elimination of undigested food residue through the large intestine usually begins after 24 hours. Dear Kandice: Rest assured, it does not take the stomach one hundred years to digest a cherry. It takes about four hours for most of the food from a meal to leave the stomach and be absorbed by the intestine. The hard, round pit, or seed of a cherry, would be more difficult for the stomach to digest
When it comes to our digestive system, it can take hours or even longer for food to pass through. That's what it takes for the body to get the nutrients and energy it needs from what you ingest. It usually takes from 24 to 72 hours for healthy people to completely digest food and eliminate waste products. The first stop for food is the esophagus, which moves food from the back of the throat to the stomach. About six to eight hours after eating, food passes through the stomach and small intestine. It then moves on to the large intestine for further digestion and absorption of water. The actual amount of time that this process takes depends on the food you're eating. Meat can take two days to fully digest, while vegetables and fruits take a day or less.