Saris for women and Dhotis for men are the part of Vedic culture in India. This type of dressing is to make the people comfortable in those clothes. Saris are easy to be made and are an apt choice for proper social appearance as per the religious norms. Most of the Indian women feel comfortable in Saris. Basically, India is a tropical country. Almost all the places in India are hot all through the year except for 2-3 months in a year. So, the clothes people wear should allow them to be comfortable while they are doing their activities. The Saris worn by women are open at the bottom and allows the air to pass through and keep the body cool. This will prevent intense sweat. The Sari is worn in two parts. The first part is wrapped around the legs from the hip along with some frills.
Sari is comfortable to be worn during pregnancy and is convenient to even cover the head. Covering the head is important for women when they are in public. Woman wearing Sari looks beautiful. It need not be Indian women; it can be any woman in the world. The Saris worn by women are open at the bottom and allows the air to pass through and keep the body cool. This will prevent intense sweat. The Sari is worn in two parts. The first part is wrapped around the legs from the hip along with some frills.
Saree is also one of the most versatile clothes. There is a type of saree for every occasion. Different types of sarees are worn on different occasions. For example, you can wear a saree to your friend's wedding and you can also wear a saree for an important business meeting. There will be a lot of difference between these two types of sarees. Every occasion is marked certain special rules of propriety
Here’s how to wear the sari. Indian women wearing the sari. Though sari is popularly believed to be the traditional dress for Indian women, there are other dresses that are either region specific or culture specific which are also considered to be part of Indian traditional dresses. Traditionally the dress for Indian women devoid of caste, creed and culture is sari. Sari (saree) is a four to nine yard unstitched garment draped in different styles and worn on an upper stitched garment called choli/blouse.
Report Abuse. Not only hindu woman wear saris, but many women who reside in India wear saris, and they are of different faiths. To answer your question, Hindu women wear saris because it represents the gracefulness and richness of the culture. People have worn Saris in India since a long long time. If you go to India, it is common to see a lot of ladies wear Sari's. It is considered traditonal clothing. There are different style sari's depending on the event, or if you are just at home
Confidence votes 15. Sari is a traditionally worn garment by Indian women. It is known that Hindu Goddess' (viz. Durga Devi, Lakshmi Devi,etc.) used to wear only sarees. So, women have been wearing sarees since that era. However, nowadays it is usually worn by elderly or rural women. 
The sari is the most commonly worn women's costume in Nepal. In Nepal, a special style of sari draping is called haku patasihh. The sari is draped around the waist and a shawl is worn covering the upper half of the sari, which is used in place of a pallu. The most common style is for the sari to be wrapped around the waist, with the loose end of the drape to be worn over the shoulder, baring the midriff. However, the sari can be draped in several different styles, though some styles do require a sari of a particular length or form.
1 There is a reason why there are so many pleats to a Saree. 2  Not only does it look pretty but when you walk, the pleats provide enough cloth that flexes-accordion like-to make room for your legs! 3  Poise and Grace: All said and done, it is easier to wear a pair of jeans or a party dress. 
The tightly fitted, short blouse worn under a sari is a choli. Choli evolved as a form of clothing in the 10th century AD, and the first cholis were only front covering; the back was always bare but covered with end of saris pallu. The most common style is for the sari to be wrapped around the waist, with the loose end of the drape to be worn over the shoulder, baring the midriff. However, the sari can be draped in several different styles, though some styles do require a sari of a particular length or form.
Granted, a great many Indian women in the west love the sari and find it a glorious expression of one’s unique and ancient culture – but even they wear it only once in a blue moon. As for Western women, they have no pressing need to wear a sari. A blogger calling herself “Gori Girl” (which translates into “white girl) would strongly disagree with me. She once wrote: “When I read that a Westerner in a sari is committing the sin of cultural appropriation, I got more than a little offended.