Main Dish — 1 cup (cooked) per person. If rice is part of the main dish, as with Spanish Rice, Jambalaya, as a base for Beef Stroganoff or if a rice salad is the main dish, allow 1 cup per person. Side Dish — 1/2 cup (cooked) per person. If that same rice salad is being served as an accompaniment to another main dish, or if rice is being served as a stand-alone side dish or otherwise as a side dish, generally allow 1/2 cup
Carbohydrates. Each cup of white rice provides 53 grams of total carbohydrates, or 18 percent of the recommended daily intake for carbohydrates for a healthy person on a 2,000-calorie diet. White rice provides less than 1 gram of dietary fiber per serving. Calories, Fat and Protein. The nutrient content is similar for short-grain, medium-grain and long-grain white rice. Each cup of steamed or boiled rice has 242 calories and less than 0.5 gram of fat. It has 4 grams of protein.
When it comes to rice the norm seems to be about ½ cup (90g) per person, although some people prefer to use a bit less – about 1 / 3 cup (60g) per person. And remember we are talking about uncooked rice here, which means that when it’s cooked it’s usually about a cup per person, as rice doubles in size. Pasta. As a general guide, you should allow 75g dried pasta, 115g-150g fresh pasta or 175g-200g filled pasta (such as ravioli) per person. The same rule applies to all types of pasta – whether it’s spaghetti, penne, rigatoni or elbows. 70-80 grams of dry pasta turns into a satisfyingly deep-dish plateful.
up vote 2 down vote. I usually cook 1/2 cup (measuring cup 8oz) rice per person...in the rice cooker or on the stove you want to double the water....ie 1/2 cup rice to 1 cup water....1/3 cup rice to 2/3 water...2cup rice to 4cup water...etc... share | improve this answer. answered Jan 30 '13 at 21:03. user15530. 21 1.
Couscous. Couscous is perhaps less popular than rice and pasta, but is slowly but surely becoming more widely used. A general rule is that 100g couscous per person is sufficient. But of course this also depends on what you are serving it with. 1 cup dry couscous makes 2 – 2 ½ cups cooked couscous. As a side dish, plan on ½ to ¾ cup cooked couscous per person. Pasta. As a general guide, you should allow 75g dried pasta, 115g-150g fresh pasta or 175g-200g filled pasta (such as ravioli) per person. The same rule applies to all types of pasta – whether it’s spaghetti, penne, rigatoni or elbows. 70-80 grams of dry pasta turns into a satisfyingly deep-dish plateful.
A portion is the amount of food that you choose to eat for a meal or snack. It can be big or small, you decide. A serving is a measured amount of food or drink, such as one slice of bread or one cup (eight ounces) of milk. 
That's 2 servings of grains. Rice is low in fat and calories. Serve it with a rainbow of healthy vegetables -- like red peppers, bok choy, onion, and carrots -- stir-fried in a little peanut or canola oil. 1  Steam rice instead of frying it to keep calories down. 2  Try brown rice, which has more fiber than white rice. 
The servings on a food package relate only to the contents of the package and very rarely to real servings. A normal serving of cooked rice is somewhere between 1/2 and 1 full cup. I also think the 1/4 cup you mention is uncooked. Best Answer: 1/4 cup of DRY rice is one recommended serving. When cooked, this equates to 1 cup of rice (rice grows four times its size when cooked). 1 cup of rice equates to two servings of grains.
A portion is the amount of food you choose to eat for meals or snacks (like a plateful of pasta or a handful of raisins). In comparison a serving is the amount of food that experts recommend you eat (like 1 cup of milk or 1 ounce of bread). Servings are listed on a food's nutrition facts label too. When choosing your portion, try to make it as close as possible to these recommended serving sizes. Grains: Aim for 6-11 servings each day.