Raccoons are noted for their intelligence, with studies showing that they are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years. The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40% invertebrates, 33% plant foods, and 27% vertebrates. The word raccoon was adopted into English from the native Powhatan term, as used in the Virginia Colony. It was recorded on Captain John Smith 's list of Powhatan words as aroughcun, and on that of William Strachey as arathkone.
Raccoons, the scourge of suburbs across North America, are now wreaking havoc overseas. The furry creatures were introduced to Europe as exotic pets and have exploded in population since the 1970s. Over the last several years, 142 cases of rabies in raccoons have been reported in Europe, mostly in Ukraine, Estonia, Germany and Lithuania, according to FECYT.
That altercation is symptomatic of a nuisance that's spreading through the country. Procyon lotor, the common raccoon, is not native to Germany, but its range is increasing. The population will soon number over a million, according to forest biologist Ulf Hohmann. These predatory mammals originally from North America can weigh over 10 kilograms (22 pounds). Both the real-life trapper Daniel Boone and the fictional hero of the Leatherstocking Tales novels wore fur caps made from raccoon pelts, easily identifiable by their bushy black and white tails. The first raccoons were brought to Germany in around 1920 to be bred in captivity for their pelts. Their controlled introduction into the wild occurred on April 12, 1934, when Prussian hunting and game authorities released two pairs of raccoons near the Edersee, a reservoir near Kassel
The raccoon (/rəˈkuːn/ or US /raeˈkuːn/ , Ræˈkuːn procyon), lotor sometimes spelled, racoon also known as the common, Raccoon North american, raccoon northern raccoon and colloquially as, coon is a-medium sized mammal native To North. america The word raccoon was adopted into English from the native Powhatan term, as used in the Virginia Colony. It was recorded on Captain John Smith 's list of Powhatan words as aroughcun, and on that of William Strachey as arathkone.
Introduced Range Edit. The raccoon is present throughout much of Germany and centers around this country, as it is also present in north-east France, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Belgium, Hungary, Poland, Belarus, parts of former Yugoslavia and European Russia. [2/3].
1 Raccoons have often been introduced into areas in the United States where they are not native to create a ' hunting population ', as pets, and as animals farmed for fur. ( 2 B402 .5.w4). 3  The presence of raccoons in the Great Salt Lake Valley of Utah is due to residents importing familiar fauna within the last 40 years. Source Information. 1  Opinions differ as to whether the island raccoons (Procyon lotor minor (Guadeloupe), Procyon lotor bayardi (Bahamas), Procyon pygmaeus (Cozumel Island), and Procyon insularis (Tr s Mar as Islands)) are different species (B402 .3.w2), or merely subspecies of the common raccoon (Procyon lotor).
The raccoon dog (subspecies ussuriensis) was introduced into the former Soviet Union, mainly the European part, in 1929-55 because it was considered a valuable fur animal. Many of the introductions were successful, and populations increased. Introduced to Europe in the late 1800's-early 1900's for fur farming and subsequent escapes have become established in most of Europe inc France, Germany, Poland, Denmark, Italy, Bulgaria, Georgia. Eradicated from the UK and died out in Ireland and Scandanavia.
Raccoons were originally introduced to Germany from the United States as a supposedly clever idea. Their furs were in demand and expensive, explains Frank-Uwe Michler, a raccoon specialist in M ritz national park in the north-eastern German state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. In the state of Brandenburg, which surrounds Berlin, hunters killed 41 raccoons in 1990. In the last hunting season, it was 5,712. A total of 30,000 were killed across Germany in the last year, more than three times the number killed six years ago.