Since psychiatrists are medical doctors, they can make clinical judgments as to whether you may have a non-psychiatric medical condition. For example, sleep apnea, thyroid problems, or anemia may all cause fatigue and low energy they are also two common symptoms of depression. Psychiatrists treat a vast array of mental health issues ranging from depression to marital problems, panic disorders to more serious psychological conditions such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.
To become a psychiatrist, you first must earn medical degree, after which you can enter a residency program in psychiatry. Post-graduate education in psychiatry consists of four years of residency training, of which at least three are in psychiatry. While many people associate psychiatry with psychoanalysis, most psychiatrists today provide a wide range of biological, psychotherapeutic and psychosocial treatments tailored to the specific needs of the patient. Psychiatrists also serve as the medical experts for the mind/brain/body interface.
A psychiatrist is a physician who specializes in psychiatry. A psychiatrist specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders. Psychiatrists are medical doctors, unlike psychologists, and must evaluate patients to determine whether their symptoms are the result of a physical illness, a combination of physical and mental, or a strictly psychiatric one.
A psychiatrist is a medically-qualified practitioner who will have spent 5-6 years training to be a doctor. He or she will then have worked as a doctor in general medicine and surgery for at least a year. He or she will then have had at least 6 years of further training in helping people with psychological problems. 
Overview. Psychiatrists are physicians who specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of mental illnesses. While many people associate psychiatry with psychoanalysis, most psychiatrists today provide a wide range of biological, psychotherapeutic and psychosocial treatments tailored to the specific needs of the patient. Psychiatrists also serve as the medical experts for the mind/brain/body interface.
A psychiatrist, similar to a psychologist, deals with mental disorders and treating them. However, they have a distinct difference -- psychiatrists are more affiliated with medicine. 
The first thing a psychiatrist will do is an evaluation in which you’ll answer questions regarding your symptoms. From the evaluation, the Pro should be able to determine the severity of your symptoms and how much they are interfering with your goals, relationships, work, school, and quality of life. Psychiatrists treat a vast array of mental health issues ranging from depression to marital problems, panic disorders to more serious psychological conditions such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.
Psychiatrist. A psychiatrist is a medical doctor who specializes in preventing, diagnosing, and treating mental illness. A psychiatrist's training starts with four years of medical school and is followed by a one-year internship and at least three years of specialized training as a psychiatric resident. Practitioners in both -- psychiatrists and psychologists -- are mental health professionals. Their area of expertise is the mind -- and the way it affects behavior and well-being. They often work together to prevent, diagnose, and treat mental illness. And both are committed to helping people stay mentally well.
Psychiatry and psychology are overlapping professions. Practitioners in both -- psychiatrists and psychologists -- are mental health professionals. Their area of expertise is the mind -- and the way it affects behavior and well-being. They often work together to prevent, diagnose, and treat mental illness. And both are committed to helping people stay mentally well.
Best Answer: Psychiatrists used to do therapy a lot. However now most psychiatrists do not provide any therapy and strictly do medication management. Most psychiatrists will refer a patient to a therapist (not always a psychologist) and many psychiatric practices will have a few medical doctors and a few psychologists. Having said that some psychiatrists still do therapy, typically talk therapy but they can do anything. There are two primary reasons why psychiatrists do not do therapy as often. 1) There is a HUGE shortage of psychiatrists (especially child and adolescent psychiatrists)