Bat flu refers to influenza A viruses found in bats. Bat flu was first discovered in “little yellow-shouldered bats” in Guatemala during a study conducted in 2009 and 2010 by experts from CDC and the Universidad del Valle (University of the Valley) in Guatemala (1). Bat flu viruses have since been detected in some other species of bats in Central and South America (2). The bat flu viruses discovered in Central and South America are very different from other flu viruses in humans and animals. All flu A viruses have hemagglutinin (HA) surface proteins, and until the discovery of these viruses, there were only 16 different classes (or “subtypes”) of HA proteins known to exist in nature.
Swine influenza, also called pig influenza, swine flu, hog flu and pig flu, is an infection caused by any one of several types of swine influenza viruses. Swine influenza virus (SIV) or swine-origin influenza virus (S-OIV) is any strain of the influenza family of viruses that is endemic in pigs. As of 2009, the known SIV strains include influenza C and the subtypes of influenza A known as H1N1, H1N2, H2N1, H3N1, H3N2, and H2N3. In pigs, four influenza A virus subtypes (H1N1, H1N2,H3N2 and H7N9) are the most common strains worldwide. In the United States, the H1N1 subtype was exclusively prevalent among swine populations before 1998; however, since late August 1998, H3N2 subtypes have been isolated from pigs.
History and Development of Flu Vaccines. In 1933, researchers discovered that viruses (influenza virus types A, B, and rarely C) cause influenza (flu). Prior to 1933, a bacterium named Haemophilus was thought to cause the flu. In 1938, Jonas Salk and Thomas Francis developed the first vaccine against flu viruses. This first flu vaccine was used to protect the U.S. military forces against the flu during World War II.
The influenza virus was discovered in the early 1930s, and scientists developed a working vaccine by the 1940s, when it was first used on soldiers during World War II. In 1947, Jonas Salk, one of the vaccine's creators, began to develop a polio vaccine, which was perfected and approved in 1955. 
[7] A new swine flu virus was discovered on that factory farm, a human-pig hybrid virus that had picked up three human flu genes. By the end of that year, a never-before-described triple species reassortment virus—a hybrid of a human virus, a pig virus, and a bird virus—triggered outbreaks in Texas, Minnesota, and Iowa. 
No one person is credited with discovering this new flu virus in 2009. It was a joint effort by scientists and doctors in Mexico, the US and the World Health Organization. Swine flu is caused by a new influenza virus that has genetic material from several different flu viruses that combined to form the new H1N1/09. The different types of flu inv … olved in the development of the new virus are three types of swine flu (Asian, European, and American), avian bird flu, and human flu.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. There are two main types of influenza (flu) virus: Types A and B. The influenza A and B viruses that routinely spread in people (human influenza viruses) are responsible for seasonal flu epidemics each year. Influenza A viruses can be broken down into sub-types depending on the genes that make up the surface proteins. 
The Influenza Virus: Influenza is caused by RNA viruses of the Orthomyxoviridae family. Here are some of characteristics of the influenza viron-. 1  Size of the influenza viron is around 80 to 120 nanometers in diameter. 2  Spherical shape usually, but also occurs in filamentous forms. 3  Outer surface has a lipid covering with projecting glycoprotein spikes. In 1944, Thomas Francis Jr. and his team of researchers at the University of Michigan, with the assistance of the U.S. Army, developed a killed-virus vaccine for influenza.
The discovery of bat flu has shed light on the evolution of flu A, B and C viruses. It is possible that many of the internal genes of bat influenza viruses are descendants of families of flu viruses that once circulated more widely in previous centuries and that are now extinct – or yet to be discovered. The bat flu viruses discovered in Central and South America are very different from other flu viruses in humans and animals. All flu A viruses have hemagglutinin (HA) surface proteins, and until the discovery of these viruses, there were only 16 different classes (or “subtypes”) of HA proteins known to exist in nature.