A catgirl is a female character with cat traits, such as cat ears, a cat tail, or other feline characteristics on an otherwise human body. The first anime titled The King’s Tail (Osama no Shippo) involving cat-girls was made in 1949 by Mitsuyo Seo. Cat-girls in Japanese media were further made popular when in 1978 the series The Star of Cottonland (Wata no Kuni Hoshi) started.
It can also be a female given name, but it's not as common. -chan (ちゃん) is an honorific, probably best explained by the following entry on http://anime.mikomi.org/wiki/HonorificsExplained. -chanThis is a more intimate honorific and has a more feminine aspect to it. The-chan honorific is used by adults addressing young children, girls addressing girls, boys addressing girls, & girls (and sometimes boys) addressing pets. Sometimes a girl may address a guy with the-chan honorific as a sign of affection. So neko-chan is something one might use to address a cat when unsure of it's name. Anyway, this is also why the current banner character has nekomimi (猫耳) (cat's ears). -chan. 
Nekomimi and Inumimi are some more accurate designation for such designed characters. But there is one essential difference. The word Nekomimi (猫耳) means  cat-ears  in english. On the other hand you have the word Inumimi (犬耳) what means  dog-ears . And this is pretty much the difference... Nekomimi are styled like cats and Inumimi are styled like dogs. 
(May 2015). An example of a moe character that might appear in an anime or manga series that can elicit feelings of moe. Moe (萌え, pronounced [mo.e]) is a Japanese slang word, and loanword that refers to feelings of strong affection mainly towards characters in anime, manga, and video games. 
This article is about the catgirl in popular culture. For information of on the mythical creature, see Bakeneko. For the sidekick Catgirl in Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again, see Carrie Kelly. For a similarly named comic book character, see Catwoman. The first anime titled The King’s Tail (Osama no Shippo) involving cat-girls was made in 1949 by Mitsuyo Seo. Cat-girls in Japanese media were further made popular when in 1978 the series The Star of Cottonland (Wata no Kuni Hoshi) started.
The reason for its name is because it is japanese. But if your talking about 'neko' as in an anime type of person then a 'neko' would be considered as a human with cat ears and a cat tail. Basically its a human with cat parts and etc. Nekos can be found in your house or on an anime show
Otaku (Heavy fans of Japanese cartoons) slang for a cat girl. Literally meaning Cat-ear in Japanese. Usually a girl in cosplay (costume) wearing homemade cat ears and tail of their favorate character from an anime series (Japanese cartoon). Note: Can also be someone of a cat-humanoid race, as in a mithra from Final Fantasy XI. A more literal meaning of Nekomimi in Japanese is Nekomusume (cat daughter or cat girl)
The reason for its name is because it is japanese. But if your talking about 'neko' as in an anime type of person then a 'neko' would be considered as a human with cat ears and a cat tail. Basically its a human with cat parts and etc. Nekos can be found in your house or on an anime show. 7 people found this useful
Step 1: Neurons firing in the brain give off electrical impulses, which are picked up by the forehead sensor. Step 2: The Necomimi headset captures brainwave data, filters out electrical noise from the environment, and interprets it with NeuroSky’s Attention and Meditation algorithms. Step 3: Your mental state is translated into ear movements and shared with those around you!
Only two light-touch sensors on your forehead and ear. Show the world what’s really on your mind and impress your friends with some of the most advanced brainwave technology available! Necomimi’s cat-like reactive movements show how interested or relaxed you are in real-time