File Form 9465, Installment Agreement Request, to set up installment payments with the IRS. The IRS must allow you to make payments on your overdue taxes if you owe $25,000 or less, you can show that you cannot pay the amount you owe now, you can pay off the tax in three years or less. The IRS charges a far lower interest rate, which means you can spend more of your money paying off the balance, not just keeping up with interest. Don’t take money out of your retirement accounts to pay a tax bill. You may owe a penalty, in addition to income taxes, on the amount you withdraw.
1 User fees If an installment agreement is approved, a one-time user fee will be charged. 2  The user fee for a new agreement is $105 or $52 for agreements where payments are deducted directly from your bank account. 3  For eligible individuals with lower incomes, the fee can be reduced to $43. Ten Tips for Taxpayers Who Owe Money to the IRS. IRS Summertime Tax Tip 2011-14, August 5, 2011. While the majority of Americans get a tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service each year, there are many taxpayers who owe and some who can’t pay the tax all at once.
You may qualify for an online installment payment agreement with the IRS as long as you owe $50,000 or less. The IRS states that a direct debit payment plan is the best option because this plan is a lower-cost, hassle-free way to pay, and the set-up fee is less than other payment plans. 
IRS Tax Tip 2011-68, April 6, 2011. If you owe taxes but can’t pay the full amount by the April 18 deadline you should still file your return on time and pay as much as you can to avoid penalties and interest. You should also contact the IRS to ask about alternative payment options. For more information about filing and paying your taxes, visit the 1040 Central page on the IRS.gov website or refer to the Form 1040 Instructions or IRS Publication 17, Your Federal Income Tax.
If you pay less than the required amount in estimated taxes, or if you pay taxes late, you may also owe a Failure to Pay Penalty. This penalty may be .5% per month. For example, if you owe $1,000 in back taxes, you may owe a penalty of $5 for every month your payment is late. This is in addition to interest. The IRS sometimes forgives or abates a penalty if you can show good cause for paying less than the required amount or paying late. 
IRS will grant taxpayers a 60 month installment agreement. The minimum IRS will accept is $25 per month for balances up to $1,499, and $50 for balances up to $2,999. Visit IRS website www.irs.gov and download form 9465 Installment Agreement Request. Best Answer: If you owe less than $25,000, all you have to do is ask and IRS will set you up on an installment agreement that will pay the liability over five years. This requires a payment of about 2% of your original balance each month. Source(s): Max Hoopla · 5 years ago
Negotiating a Monthly Payment. If you owe more than $50,000 or can't pay the amount you owe in six years or less, your request for an IA begins with an IRS collector's analyzing your Collection Information Statement on Form 433-A. The collector uses the information on the form to determine the amount you can pay. The most widely used method for paying an old IRS debt is the monthly installment agreement, or IA. If you owe $50,000 or less, you should be able to get an installment payment plan for 72 months just by asking for it.
If you owe the IRS money, they expect to be paid and they make it easy for you to pay them, even if you do not have the funds in full. Not paying the IRS its due can lead to long legal battles, tax liens, tax levies, and the freezing of your assets. 1 This penalty is charged between 0.25% and 1% of the unpaid or outstanding taxes owed to a maximum of 25% of the amount owed. 2  If you do not have funds readily available, it may make sense to secure a loan rather than wait and pay it off. 3  IRS accepts payments through credit cards.
Set up an installment agreement. This program allows you to pay your debt to the IRS in monthly installments. If you owe less than $25,000 and agree to pay off the balance in five years or less, you can use the Online Payment Agreement application at www.irs.gov to set up a payment plan.