5. Standard diagnostic mammography takes between 10-15 minutes. Sometimes extra views are performed which take longer. If you have breast implants, the mammography will take longer (approximately 30 minutes) because it takes more time to make sure clear images are taken. 
These were some factors affecting the outcome of mammography and also gives the answer of how long does a mammogram take. This article also discusses the methods and purpose of mammogram in detail which will help you to get a perfect picture of mammography and its affects. Let’s discuss what the procedure of digital mammography is and how long does a mammogram take. Mammogram is not very painful; it just provides little discomfort to the person. It uses very less radiation which can result into cancer. If you are planning for mammography then you should know the answer of these questions.
Category 3. Probably benign. The mammogram shows an area that is probably benign, but a follow-up mammogram needs to be done in 6 months to watch for any changes to the area. Mammograms in this category mean that the abnormality has a less than 2% risk of being cancer. Category 4. Suspicious abnormality. The mammogram shows an area of concern. Diagnostic mammography is more thorough and takes a little longer than a screening mammography. It provides more detailed images and views of the breast taken from different angles. Diagnostic mammography is usually done on both breasts so that doctors can compare the breast tissue of both breasts.
A mammogram is an X-ray picture of the breast. Doctors use a mammogram to look for early signs of breast cancer. Regular mammograms are the best tests doctors have to find breast cancer early, sometimes up to three years before it can be felt. When their breast cancer is found early, many women go on to live long and healthy lives. A mammogram takes only a few moments, though, and the discomfort is over soon. What you feel depends on the skill of the technologist, the size of your breasts, and how much they need to be pressed. Your breasts may be more sensitive if you are about to get or have your period.
On the day of your mammogram, do not use any deodorant, perfume, powders or ointments on your breasts. The residue left on your skin by these substances may interfere with the X-rays. If you are still having menstrual periods, you may want to have your mammogram done within two weeks after your menstrual period ends. The procedure will be more comfortable, especially if your breasts become tender during this time. You will be asked to wait; usually about 5 minutes; until the X-rays are developed, in the event repeat pictures need to be taken. In some clinics and hospitals, X-ray pictures can be viewed immediately on a computer screen (digitally).
For screening mammogram patients, our goal is that their exams will be perfomed and completed in 15 minutes. These exams will be interpreted by the radiologist within 1-2 working days, and letters will be mailed to the patient's home address upon interpretation. Diagnostic mammography often is a longer exam, because additional images and possibly ultrasound are performed. These patients are given their results at the time of their exam, both verbally and in writing.
A: If there is a suspicious finding on your mammogram, you will typically need to have additional views and/or ultrasound performed. The radiologist will consult with you in person and will recommend additional evaluation to make a diagnosis. Diagnostic mammography often is a longer exam, because additional images and possibly ultrasound are performed. These patients are given their results at the time of their exam, both verbally and in writing.
After the mammogram. Two specialists look at your mammogram to see if there are any signs of cancer. Around 96 out of 100 women (96%) in the UK screening programme have a normal result. Some women have an unclear result and may need to have the mammogram again. 
Mammogram is an x-ray picture of women breast which indicate the breast cancer. The other name of mammogram is digital mammography. It is used to identify the breast cancer sign in the early stages so we can find out even before it gets prominent. Let’s discuss what the procedure of digital mammography is and how long does a mammogram take. Mammogram is not very painful; it just provides little discomfort to the person. It uses very less radiation which can result into cancer. If you are planning for mammography then you should know the answer of these questions.
In normal cases, mammogram take around 15 to 30 minutes but for the better results, and clarity pictures from different angles are taken which take around 30 to 45 minutes. You will the results of your mammography within few days; it depends upon the facility and your doctor. Let’s discuss what the procedure of digital mammography is and how long does a mammogram take. Mammogram is not very painful; it just provides little discomfort to the person. It uses very less radiation which can result into cancer. If you are planning for mammography then you should know the answer of these questions.