Newquay (/ˈnjuːki/ , Cornish: Tewynblustri) is a town, civil parish, seaside resort and fishing port in Cornwall, England. It is situated on the North Atlantic coast of Cornwall approximately 20 miles (32 km) west of Bodmin and 12 miles (19 km) north of Truro. The town is bounded to the west by the River Gannel and its associated salt marsh, and to the east by the Porth Valley. Newquay has been expanding inland (south) since it was founded. As with the rest of the British Isles and South West England, Newquay experiences a maritime climate with cool summers and mild winters. The nearest Met Office weather station is St. Mawgan/Newquay Airport, about 3.5 miles to the north east of the town centre.
Newquay Cornwall. Slightly out of Newquay Cornwall (about a fifteen minute drive or hard walk of an hour) Watergate Bay Cornwall is a two mile stretch of golden Cornish sands. Popular with surfers, kite surfers, beachgoers and dogs as it is a dog friendly beach all year. North Cornwall. Treyarnon Bay lies between Padstow and Newquay and is a sandy cove which is popular with families and surfers. The beach is edged by cliffs and sand dunes and has rock pools to investigate. There is access to the Coast Path for those who fancy a walk or to simply take in the stunning views.
The Lappa Valley Steam Railway runs along one of Cornwall's oldest stretches of rail, built in 1849 to carry ore from the mine at East Wheal Rose to Newquay Harbour. Much later it was part of the Great Western Railway. Newquay. map. The old harbour in Newquay around which the town grew. Newquay was originally the fishing port of Towan Blistra before the new quay was built in the fifteenth century. Among other things, the quay was used for the import of coal and the export of mined ore during the heyday of the tin and copper mining industries
Located off the A30 and often described as the gateway to West Cornwall, it is an excellent destination for touring. St Ives, St Michaels Mount at Marazion and Land's End are all within a 30 minute drive and the town offers a wide range of facilities with a shopping centre, numerous eateries, old inns and wine bars. 
Amy and John would like to welcome you to Geckos Rest Guest House in Newquay Cornwall. The Guest House is located on Mount Wise only a 3 minute walk to the town centre and a 5 minute walk to the beach. St Christopher's Newquay is the hot spot for sun worshippers in England. With 11 beaches stretching over seven miles of sand, it's a challenge for anyone to tear themselves from their towel.
Cornwall and Scilly Urban Survey Newquay April 2003 Summary 1 Summary Cornwall & Scilly Urban Survey The Cornwall & Scilly Urban Survey is a pioneering initiative aimed at harnessing the quality and distinctive character of the historic environment to successful and sustainable regeneration. Cornwall and Scilly Urban Survey Newquay April 2003 3: Historical and topographical development 17 The most prosperous period of the harbour was the 25 years following its purchase in the 1860s by the Cornwall Mineral Company. In 1872 the middle jetty was added to expand capacity.
Situated on the north coast of mid-Cornwall (Fig 1), within the bounds of Restormel Borough Council (RBC), it plays a significant role as the authority’s second largest town with a population of 18,750. It is located approximately 12 km from the A30, 23 km west of St Austell and 17 km north of Truro. It is the closest major town to Newquay (Cornwall International) Airport which offers daily low-cost flights to Stansted and other domestic links. Cornwall and Scilly Urban Survey Newquay April 2003 3: Historical and topographical development 17 The most prosperous period of the harbour was the 25 years following its purchase in the 1860s by the Cornwall Mineral Company. In 1872 the middle jetty was added to expand capacity.
And the South West of Cornwall. Towan Cottage is a 3-storey, 3 Bedroomed beach house holiday accommodation based at Porthtowan in Cornwall, including Kitchen, Lounge and separate Conservatory area. There are 3 bedrooms sleeping 6 in total, including one room with bunk beds