While Apple moved forward with their iTunes and iOS, we found out that the Restrictions Passcode is no longer stored in the com.apple.springboard.plist file. And we have created for you a helpful guide on how to recover Restrictions PIN without factory reset your iPhone or iPad on iOS 5 and iOS 6 iTunes backups. For not so techy users we have offered the option of resetting the restriction pin with the help of our iPhone Backup Extractor software. Access your restrictions code for older iOS iTunes backups. For backups lower than iOS 5 we have a complete guide on How to recover an iPhone Restrictions Passcode from an iTunes backup in a couple of easy steps! All you need is the com.apple.springboard.plist file and our guide.
Turn on Restrictions. 1  Tap Restrictions. 2  Tap Enable Restrictions and enter a passcode. 3  If you lose or forget your Restrictions passcode, you'll need to erase your device and then set it up as a new device to remove the passcode. You can turn on Restrictions, also known as parental controls, on your iOS device to prevent access to specific apps and features. Learn about the types of Restrictions and how to turn them on and off on your device.
Level 10 (94,020 points). The restrictions passcode is stored with the iPhone backup, the only way to get rid of it, if you can't remember it, is to restore as a new phone and not from your iPhone backup. You will lose ALL data on your phone. Level 4 (2,910 points). Ask your kids-they will have hacked their way around it already.
This is the way i got rid of that annoying restriction code without jailbreaking or downloading any weird software. i did all that with itunes. note: Before you do this process i suggest you to back your contacts, music, photos or other information in icloud. 
Download the iPhone Backup Extractor to see this work in action! All you need to do is to load your iOS 7 or 8 iTunes backup in the iPhone Backup Extractor and click on top left side 'Utilities' button and choose 'Recover Restrictions PIN' . Then press the Start button and start recovering your restrictions code. Access your restrictions code for older iOS iTunes backups. For backups lower than iOS 5 we have a complete guide on How to recover an iPhone Restrictions Passcode from an iTunes backup in a couple of easy steps! All you need is the com.apple.springboard.plist file and our guide.
Easy way to reset Restrictions PIN with 2 clicks! If the above method is too complicated and you want to complete all these steps in just a few clicks, try the latest iPhone Backup Extractor with a brand new Restriction Passcode reset feature. How to reset restrictions PIN from an iOS 5, 6 or 7 iTunes backup in 17 steps. The process of resetting the SBParentalControlsPIN only applies to a non-encrypted iTunes backup. Use the instructions below to reset the Restrictions PIN to '1234' on either an iPad or an iPhone running iOS 5, 6 or 7.
1 Click the Settings... 2  button to open your proxy settings. 3  Select Manual proxy configuration, and then enter in the proxy information that you found. 4  Check the Use this proxy server for all protocols box, and ensure that the right Port has been entered. 1 Click the Advanced menu, and then click the Network tab. 2  Click the Settings... 3  button to open your proxy settings. 4  Select Manual proxy configuration, and then enter in the proxy information that you found. 5