Chrissie Hynde was born on September 7, 1951 in Akron, Ohio, USA as Christine Ellen Hynde. She was previously married to Lucho Brieva and Jim Kerr. See full bio ». 
$12 Million. Chrissie Hynde net worth: Chrissie Hynde is an American singer who has a net worth of $12 million dollars. Born in Akron, Ohio, Chrissie Hynde, also known as Christine Ellen Hynde, grew up traveling to Cleveland to see her favorite bands. Chrissie Hynde net worth: Chrissie Hynde is an American singer who has a net worth of $12 million dollars
Synopsis. Singer, songwriter, and guitarist Chrissie Hynde was born September 7, 1951, in Akron, Ohio. Her band, The Pretenders, got together in the late 1970s and released a self-titled album in 1980. She and bandmate James Honeyman-Scott penned the group's first hit, Brass in Pocket.. Chrissie Hynde-Mini Biography (TV-14; 3:07) A short biography of Chrissie Hynde who was influenced by the 1970s punk revolution and went on to become one of the first powerful female leaders of rock, famously with the band the Pretenders.
Ray Davies net worth: $2.6 Million. Ray Davies Net Worth: Ray Davies is an English rock musician who was the lead singer and songwriter for the rock band The Kinks. Ray Davies has a net worth of $2.6 million dollars.
It is trivialised a lot, but in its pure sense, it is really folk music: music to people, about people. If we use it for its entertainment value only, we are only using 60% to 70% of its potential.. Singer with rock band Simple Minds. Daughter, Yasmin Kerr(b.1985), with Chrissie Hynde. Born as James Jim Kerr has an estimated net worth of $45 million. This singer-songwriter is one of the members that began the punk rock band named Johnny and the self abusers.
Chrissie Hynde is defiant. That has been a consistent trait of the Rock and Roll Hall of Famer for the past 30 plus years, as the Pretenders frontwoman kept her band alive through ever-changing lineups, nine studio albums and the drug-related deaths of two founding members. 
Born on: 9th Jul 59 Born in: Scotland Marital status: Divorced Occupation: Singer-songwriter. Born as James Jim Kerr has an estimated net worth of $45 million. This singer-songwriter is one of the members that began the punk rock band named Johnny and the self abusers. Eventually, it was changed to Simple Minds. This gentleman played keyboard and sang along together with another member John Milarky
$12 Million. Chrissie Hynde net worth: Chrissie Hynde is an American singer who has a net worth of $12 million dollars. Born in Akron, Ohio, Chrissie Hynde, also known as Christine Ellen Hynde, grew up traveling to Cleveland to see her favorite bands. While attending Kent State University, where she was majoring in Art, she performed with a band that also featured future Devo frontman, Mark Mothersbaugh.
Early Life and Career. Singer, songwriter and guitarist Christine Ellen Hynde was born on September 7, 1951, in Akron, Ohio. Hynde was one of the leading women in rock in the 1980s and '90s as the lead singer of the Pretenders. Chrissie Hynde-Mini Biography (TV-14; 3:07) A short biography of Chrissie Hynde who was influenced by the 1970s punk revolution and went on to become one of the first powerful female leaders of rock, famously with the band