A Brief History of Empanadas. These pastries, filled with seafood, meat, cheese, vegetables or fruit are wildly popular throughout Latin and South America. Thought to have originated in Spain, where the Empanada Festival is part of Galician culture, the name comes from empanar, or to coat with bread. Empanadas are the traditional Latin version of the hot pocket (an American version). When I was growing up, my mom who is from Spain, and was living in South America, used to make a version with meat, raisins and olives.
Essentially, an empanada is a crescent-shaped pastry with a filling. Empanadas can be fried or baked, and may use various fillings from cheese to seafood. While this recipe uses the traditional Argentine filling, you can fill an empanada with almost anything, so you are welcome to experiment. Ad. Empanadas are a very popular street food in South America (in Brazil they're called 'pasteis' pastéis 'or' pastel in) singular And. Spain, essentially an empanada is a-crescent shaped pastry with a. filling
The Perfect Pastry for All Meals Empanadas, or beef turnovers, are discs of pastry packed with meat. Some turnover recipes call for all manner of fillings, but this GOYA Empanada recipe features a delicious tomato, onion, garlic and beef mixture. 
Philippine fried empanadas, with ground beef, potatoes, carrots, cheese, and raisins in a thin, crisp crust. Filipino empanadas usually contain ground beef, pork or chicken, potatoes, chopped onions, and raisins (somewhat similar to the Cuban picadillo) in a somewhat sweet, wheat flour bread. The name comes from the Galician, Portuguese, and Spanish verb empanar, meaning to wrap or coat in bread. Empanadas are made by folding dough or bread with stuffing consisting of a variety of meat, cheese, huitlacoche, vegetables, fruits, and others.
Empanadas are one of my favorite foods to make and also to eat. Empanadas can be eaten for breakfast, lunch and dinner. They can be served as appetizers or snacks, but they can also easily make a full and satisfying meal. Asparagus empanadas with fava beans, peas and goat cheese: These vegetarian empanadas are filled with asparagus, fava beans, fresh peas, goat cheese and thyme. Serve them with a balsamic chimichurri sauce. Choriqueso empanadas: Mouthwatering empanadas filled with chorizo and cheese, can be fried or baked. Served with a creamy avocado sauce. Chicken or turkey empanadas: Recipe for homemade chicken or turkey empanadas filled with chicken/turkey, onions, garlic, peppers, tomatoes, cumin, oregano and balsamic vinegar
Empanadas are a very popular street food in South America (in Brazil they're called 'pasteis' pastéis 'or' pastel in) singular And. Spain, essentially an empanada is a-crescent shaped pastry with a. Filling empanadas can be fried or, baked and may use various fillings from cheese to. seafood Empanadas are a very popular street food in South America (in Brazil they're called 'pasteis' pastéis 'or' pastel in) singular And. Spain, essentially an empanada is a-crescent shaped pastry with a. filling
Empanada. © 2006 Hector Rodriguez. Definition: Empanadas are fried or baked pastries stuffed with sweet or savory fillings. These pastries are known throughout Portugal, the Caribbean, Latin America, and the Philippines. Empanada comes from the Spanish verb empanar, which means to wrap in bread. An empanada is made by folding a disc of thinly rolled dough over a filling into a semicircle and then sealing the edge.
Origin: Galicia. Empanadas are a classic example of Spanish food, hailing from the region of Galicia in the North-West of Spain. These bread pies are filled with various fillings including meat, fish, cheese and vegetables, and even fruit to create a dessert version of the dish. 
Cook. Empanadas are very popular as a street food in South America. Essentially, it is a crescent-shaped pastry with a filling, which may vary greatly by region or preference. Empanadas can be fried or baked, and may use a variety of fillings from meat or seafood to fruit or cheese. 