The best way to experience Heathwood Hall is to visit our beautiful 122-acre campus. Just a quarter mile from the wide banks of the Congaree River, our expansive campus serves as a perfect symbol of the kind of in-depth, immersive, and wide-ranging learning that happens here every day. 
Location. Heathwood Inn is located 2 miles from the head of Mount Desert Island on Route 3, the Island proudly hosts Acadia National Park, who's entry is only 4 miles from us & the quaint well visited town of Bar Harbor, Maine only a 7 mile ride. Call ​.
Street Map of Heathwood (Queensland), Australia. Below map you can see Heathwood street list. If you click on street name, you can see position on the map.
Heathwood is an outer suburb of Brisbane, Australia. It is 21 kilometres (13 mi) south of the Brisbane central business district. The suburb was declared a suburb in 1975. Heathwood was named after an early settler in the district. The western boundary of Heathwood is marked by Oxley Creek. In the 2011 Census the population of Heathwood is 1,820, 50.3% female and 49.7% male. The median/average age of the Heathwood population is 32 years of age, 5 years below the Australian average. 54.2% of people living in Heathwood were born in Australia. The other top responses for country of birth were New Zealand 7.6%, Vietnam 5.5%, England 4.7%, India 3.2%, South Africa 2.5%.
For everyone who lives here, Heathwood is home … but with wonderful extra benefits. Our caring professional staff takes care of all the necessities, while you’re free to relax with hobbies and activities. You’ll enjoy an atmosphere of comfort and serenity … with a whole community of friends right outside your door. 
Heathwood is a downtown Columbia SC neighborhood. It was annexed into the City of Columbia in 1925. It covers 1.975 square miles. The homes range in value from a one bedroom condo for 65K to 1.9 million for a 9000 sq ft brick home. Heathwood is bordered by Beltline Blvd, Devine Street, Gervais Street, Sunnyside Drive and Forest Drive. Heathwood is a very desirable downtown Columbia SC neighborhood. Heathwood is a very short drive to great shopping on Devine Street or Forest Drive. Heathwood also has several beautiful parks and green spaces. It is also very convenient to all downtown Columbia, SC and interstate I-77. Heathwood has some of the most sought after real estate in downtown Columbia SC. The average listing price per sq ft ranges from $120 - $200. Heathwood offers high end condominiums, and single family residences.
Welcome to the Heathwood Hall Sandbox! Welcome to the Heathwood Hall Sandbox! This sandbox is completely devoid of all design-elements-we promise the new site will not be styled in the austere white and grey you see here! Headers and other typographical elements, for example, will be styled according to the final website design (once confirmed). Heathwood to resume regular start time Tues., Oct. 13. Dear Heathwood Families, After assessing how everything went with this morning’s commute to school, we have decided to resume our regular 8:20 a.m. start time as of tomorrow, Tuesday, Oct. 13. Bus pick-ups and carpool drop-offs will run at their usual times.
Just the right amount of care. Very often, all an older adult needs is a little extra help with the details of everyday living. At Heathwood, we handle all of the cooking and housekeeping while you relax and enjoy life with the security of 24-hour supervision. It’s a perfect blend of independence and care, private life and social life.
Heathwood Helping Hands was formed to help with flood relief for Heathwood families and others in the Columbia community. On this page, we will list what’s needed, volunteer opportunities, and other ways to help. Heathwood to resume regular start time Tues., Oct. 13. Dear Heathwood Families, After assessing how everything went with this morning’s commute to school, we have decided to resume our regular 8:20 a.m. start time as of tomorrow, Tuesday, Oct. 13. Bus pick-ups and carpool drop-offs will run at their usual times.