dragon tongue bean~pole or bush. I am getting ready to plant the dragon tongue beans I got on one of the trains this spring. I was thinking it was a pole bean, but now I'm not sure if it is or if it is a bush. I have room regardless and have a trellis made for them, if they are a pole. Posts: 20,356. Re: dragon tongue bean~pole or bush. Dragon tongue are listed as being used for both fresh green beans and for dried beans.
Posts: n/a. Re: dragon tongue bean~pole or bush. No, not a dried bean as you found out. And I wouldn't compare them to Lima's either, which I also love, rather, they taste like fresh beans although I personally think they have one of the better tastes when it comes to fresh beans. Posts: 20,356. Re: dragon tongue bean~pole or bush. Dragon tongue are listed as being used for both fresh green beans and for dried beans.
We’re harvesting beans, baskets of beautiful yellow and purple striped beans. unassuming row of dragon tongue bush beans. These heirloom dragon tongue beans are a bush bean, meaning they do not need to be trellised. They grow down towards the soil hiding under wide umbrella leaves. The beans can be cooked fresh. Sadly they lose their beautiful coloration, cooking to a light yellow color. 
Dragon Tongue beans, AKA Dragon Langerie, maintain their designation as a fresh picking bean simply through the Germanic translation of bean: a legume picked when young. Bean also refers to the entire fruit: the pod and the seed. Dragon Tongue beans are a Dutch wax type bush bean. They are a member of the Fabaceae family along with peas and pulses. They should not be confused as a shelling bean variety, such as fava beans and lima beans, as these varieties are beans whose pods cannot be eaten. The tender pod of this bean is entirely edible. No shelling required. Best raw, Dragon Tongue beans are also excellent steamed, but the color fades during cooking.
And with beans, sometimes it can feel like a neverending Easter egg hunt when you’re harvesting those long green pods camouflaged among long green vines. Dragon Tongue bush beans, on the other hand, dangle like disco Christmas ornaments on compact bushes about 2 feet tall. The tender pods grow 6 to 7 inches long, with lavender to deep purple mottling on their pale yellow shells. 
Dragon Tongue Bush Bean Seeds. This beautiful, old HEIRLOOM variety is good for fresh use or for dried beans. When the flat, string-less 15-18cm (6-7″) beans turn from a lime green to yellow with bright purple stripes, they’re ready to use for cooking or freezing. They can also be grown to the dry stage for winter use in soups and stews. You should mark some plants for regular picking and leave other plants unpicked to mature for dry beans. Dragon tongue bush bean seeds are brown with dark markings. Also known as Merveille de Piemonte. Bush and pole beans can be eaten fresh, frozen, canned, or pickled. Beans (like peas and lettuces) are also extremely self-fruitful, meaning that they have a genetic tendency to breed true to their parents. This is why all beans (and peas, and lettuces) are open pollinated.
Getting to know Dragon Tongue beans. I’m not going to lie. It was the purple flecks. That’s what got me to buy these beans, known as Dragon Tongue or Dragon Langerie. The beans’ beautiful dappled exterior makes them hard to ignore as they sit among monochromatic green and yellow beans on the market stand.
With a name like Dragon Tongue, what is there not to like? Dragon Tongue beans, also known as dragon langerie beans, are an open-pollinated heirloom French bean with a creamy white flesh and violet purple striped, fiery, variegations. The Dragon Tongue bean is, on average, a six-inch long, wax type bush bean that arguably is the best multipurpose bean available. It is fantastically suited as a fresh snap bean, but also works well as a shelled bean when fully mature. One word of wisdom is that the bean turns solid white upon cooking.
• 15 Spots. The Dragon Tongue bean is a dual purpose bean, qualifying as a fresh pod bean as well as a dried legume. When harvested fresh, the entire bean, shell and seeds are edible. The bean has a warm cream color with vivid violet variegations throughout its stringless pod. They should not be confused as a shelling bean variety, such as fava beans and lima beans, as these varieties are beans whose pods cannot be eaten. The tender pod of this bean is entirely edible. No shelling required. Best raw, Dragon Tongue beans are also excellent steamed, but the color fades during cooking.