Tesco wages vary from store to store depending on location. Tesco of course offer the minimum wage, but in most instances even the store colleagues are offered a more competitive salary. 
My average pay per hour came out as around about £5.94, as a 17 year old working on the checkouts at Tesco. However i get location pay in my area as jobs are hard to come by and also Sundays (i work the whole day) are time & a half. The pay is good. I am 19 years old and I am working on the customer service desk for Tesco. The store I was working in was a Somerfield but then co-op bought all of somerfield and sold our particular store to Tesco. My hourly rate is £7.10 per hour and I get time and a half on sundays. The minimum wage for an 18 yr old is £4.83/hr.
The average Tesco salary ranges from approximately £8,000 per year for Catering Assistant to £117,000 per year for Director of Finance. Average Tesco hourly pay ranges from approximately £4.77 per hour for Cashier/Sales to £12 per hour for Team Leader/Supervisor. 
1.1 The Tesco Mobile Pay as you go Triple Credit tariff is an offer that rewards you when you Top-up with additional free credit you can use on certain types of calling minutes, texts and/or data ('Free Credit'). 1.2 The Free Credit value awarded will depend on the Top-up value you place on your Account each month. 
7,196. I also work for Tesco's its not a bad company to work for, you also get employee share's from the company and you can also buy shares.. Christmas they give you 20 in vouchers which you have to spend so much to get so much off.. We have just had a few days where our discount card was 20% instead of 10%. Working for tesco. Hiya I currently work as a house keeper but the job is such hard work and you are under so much pressure and the hours are not good so I been looking for other work. I have two interviews one at tesco and one at sainsburys. I know the pay rate for sainsburys but not
How much do Tesco employees make? Glassdoor has salaries, tips, bonuses and hourly wages submitted anonymously by 803 Tesco employees. See Tesco Hourly Wages, Tesco Bonuses, or check out salaries for Tesco Internship or Tesco Contractor.
Tesco's is so inefficient its ridculous! I'm 17 though and I get paid more than most my friends who get about £5 an hour. I get paid about £6.70 an hour. but after you work there a year you go up to £7.50 something an hour. You get a 10% discount after 6 months. its £7 an hour. Of course, I don't work at Tesco. One of my friend works at Tesco, he gets paid £6.52 per hour, part time. Near enough the minimum wage, depending upon age.
How much do Tesco employees make? Glassdoor has salaries, tips, bonuses and hourly wages submitted anonymously by 420 Tesco employees. 1  Salaries by Job. 2  Salaries by Company. 3  Salaries by City. 4  Reviews by Company. 5  Interview Questions by Job. 6  Interviews by Company. 7  Benefits by Company. 8  Jobs by Title. 9  Jobs by Company. 10  Jobs by City.