The largest game reserve in South Africa, the Kruger National Park is larger than Israel. Nearly 2 million hectares of land that stretch for 352 kilometres (20 000 square kilometres) from north to south along the Mozambique border, is given over to an almost indescribable wildlife experience.
To the west and south of the Kruger National Park are the two South African provinces of Limpopo and Mpumalanga. In the north is Zimbabwe, and to the east is Mozambique. It is one of the largest national parks in the world, with an area of 19,485 square kilometres (7,523 sq mi) The park is approximately 360 kilometres (220 mi) long, and has an average width of 65 kilometres (40 mi). At its widest point, the park is 90 kilometres (56 mi) wide from east to west
Mopani Camp is situated on a rocky rise in the Kruger National Park in South Africa, with a magnificent view over the Pioneer Dam. The nearest entrance is Phalaborwa Gate, which is 74km (46 miles) away. The Airport is 4km (2.5 miles) from Phalaborwa Gate. The nearest gate is the Phalaborwa Gate which is 74 kilometres (46 miles) away. Car hire facilities are available at the airport. There are regular domestic flights to and from the Phalaborwa Kruger Park Gateway Airport which lies just 4 kilometres (2.5 miles) from the Phalaborwa entrance gate.
Kruger National Park is one of the largest game reserves in Africa. It covers an area of 19,485 square kilometres (7,523 sq mi) in the provinces of Limpopo and Mpumalanga in northeastern South Africa, and extends 360 kilometres (220 mi) from north to south and 65 kilometres (40 mi) from east to west. It is one of the largest national parks in the world, with an area of 19,485 square kilometres (7,523 sq mi) The park is approximately 360 kilometres (220 mi) long, and has an average width of 65 kilometres (40 mi). At its widest point, the park is 90 kilometres (56 mi) wide
1 Crocodile Bridge, +27 (0)13 735-6012 - The third smallest camp of KNP and located close to Crocodile River, Crocodile Bridge is in the most southern part of KNP and it is a camp and as well a gate site. Private Game Reserves and Lodges [edit]. Mainly located in the north east of the Mpumalanga Province and often share a border with the south-western part of the KNP. In recent years, most fences between the KNP and private game parks have been dismantled and animals can freely choose were to go.
Currently, the park is run by the South African National Parks (SANP) and is probably the best managed African National Park. Wildlife conservation, education and tourism are the main objectives of the KNP. Private Game Reserves and Lodges [edit]. Mainly located in the north east of the Mpumalanga Province and often share a border with the south-western part of the KNP. In recent years, most fences between the KNP and private game parks have been dismantled and animals can freely choose were to go.
The largest game reserve in South Africa, the Kruger National Park is nearly 2 million hectares of land that stretch for 352 kilometres. 1  About Kruger National Park. Nearly 2 million hectares of land that stretch for 352 kilometres (20 000 square kilometres) from north to south along the Mozambique border, is given over to an almost indescribable wildlife experience.
Korup National Park is in the Southwest Province of Cameroon and extends over 1,260 km 2 of mostly undisturbed primary forest. It is reputedly one of Africa’s oldest and richest rainforests in terms of floral and faunal diversity. There are 23 additional villages within 3 km from the KNP boundary, an area often referred to as KNP’s Peripheral Zone (PZ). The combined population of KNP and PZ villages is approximately 2,700 with a population density of approximately 2 persons/km 2.
The Kruger National Park (KNP) [1] lies in the north-east of South Africa and runs along the border of Mozambique in the east, Zimbabwe in the north, and the southern border is the Crocodile River. The park covers 20,000 square kilometers and is divided in 14 different ecozones, each supporting different wildlife. Private Game Reserves and Lodges [edit]. Mainly located in the north east of the Mpumalanga Province and often share a border with the south-western part of the KNP. In recent years, most fences between the KNP and private game parks have been dismantled and animals can freely choose were to go.