The first practical radar system was produced in 1935 by the British physicist Sir Robert Watson-Watt, and by 1939 England had established a chain of radar stations along its south and east coasts to detect aggressors in the air or on the sea. 
They also discovered that its axis of rotation is almost zero. The first spacecraft to actually visit Venus was NASA’s Mariner 2, which flew past Venus in 1962. More recently, NASA’s Magellan spacecraft visited Venus and extensively mapped it surface with radar. ESA’s Venus Express arrived at Venus in May, 2006. 
1 Synthetic-aperture radar (SAR), was invented in the early 1950s at Goodyear Aircraft Corporation. 2  Using a single, relatively small antenna carried on an aircraft, a SAR combines the returns from each pulse to produce a high-resolution image of the terrain comparable to that obtained by a much larger antenna. The most widespread radar device today is undoubtedly the radar gun. This is a small, usually hand-held, Doppler radar that is used to detect the speed of objects, especially trucks and automobiles in regulating traffic, as well as pitched baseballs, runners, or other moving objects in sports.
The history of radar will show that it began in 1904. German engineer Christian Hulsmeyer created an apparatus capable of detecting an object’s presence some distance away. However, no single scientist invented the modern radar; scientists from several nations worked on it, especially during the 1930s and 40s. Hulsmeyer received a patent for his invention in 1904. However it was Nikola Tesla who discovered that frequency could be used to detect the presence of vehicles as well as their course. The succeeding years saw American and European scientists develop various radar devices.
One of the pioneers in the history of radar development was the Frenchman Emile Girardeau in 1934. He got a patent for his work. In 1935 it was put in the Normandie liner. Also that year, America had its first monopulse radar courtesy of Dr. Robert Page. The Russian engineer P.K. Oschepkov invented the RAPID. Hulsmeyer received a patent for his invention in 1904. However it was Nikola Tesla who discovered that frequency could be used to detect the presence of vehicles as well as their course. The succeeding years saw American and European scientists develop various radar devices.
Sir Robert Watson-Watt in the year 1935 invented the first practical radar in the United Kingdom. A Handley Page Heyford bomber was detected by his radar from a distance of 12 km. 
It is a system based on electromagnetic waves that are used to identify altitude, direction, and range of moving and stationary objects. It can also be used to identify the speed of moving objects like aircraft, ships, and motor vehicles. Sir Robert Watson-Watt is credited with creating the first practical RADAR system. In early 1935, he proposed a system that could detect and locate aircraft with the use of radio technology. On February 26, 1935, he successfully demonstrated the reflection of radio waves by aircraft. Zoltan Bay, a Hungarian physicist, created a working model of radar in 1936. The British were the first to use the radar system for defense purposes. Radar technology is widely used for air traffic control and navigation.
Pioneers in Radar Research. Hulsmeyer received a patent for his invention in 1904. However it was Nikola Tesla who discovered that frequency could be used to detect the presence of vehicles as well as their course. The succeeding years saw American and European scientists develop various radar devices.
When was the radio invented and by whom? We use this word on daily basis; everyone knows what the radio is and what it is used for. What do we actually know about the radio history and invention? Radio can be defined as a device that transmits signals, using electromagnetic waves. Thomas Edison contributed to the first radio invention in 1885. He was working on an electrostatic coupling system. Edison applied for a patent and in 1891 the patent was finally granted.
The history of radar starts with experiments by Heinrich Hertz in the late 19th century that showed that radio waves were reflected by metallic objects. This possibility was suggested in James Clerk Maxwell 's seminal work on electromagnetism. The most widespread radar device today is undoubtedly the radar gun. This is a small, usually hand-held, Doppler radar that is used to detect the speed of objects, especially trucks and automobiles in regulating traffic, as well as pitched baseballs, runners, or other moving objects in sports.