Myth: Any big surge of water from the oceans is called a tidal wave; the terms “Tsunami” and “Tidal Waves” mean the same and are interchangeable. Tsunamis are mistakenly called tidal waves because, when approaching land, they look as a tide which suddenly rushes away and crashes back in a form of a huge wave. Although, the impact of a tsunami could be influenced by the tidal level at the time it strikes. Bonus Facts: 1  The highest tidal waves are found in the Bay of Fundy, in the Canadian province of New Brunswick, where the water level can rise with the tide by 50 feet.
A tsunami (plural: tsunamis or tsunami; from Japanese: 津波, lit. harbor wave; English pronunciation: /tsuːˈnɑːmi/) , also known as a seismic sea wave, is a series of waves in a water body caused by the displacement of a large volume of water, generally in an ocean or a large lake. Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and other underwater explosions (including detonations of underwater nuclear devices), landslides, glacier calvings, meteorite impacts and other disturbances above or below water all have the potential to generate a tsunami.
It is true that both of these types of waves may be very destructive. However, there is a significant difference between tsunamis and tidal waves based on their origins and characteristics. A tidal wave is quite a predictable event impacted by the atmosphere. It is a result of the daily tides caused by the imbalanced, gravitational influences of the Moon, Sun, and planets (hence the name). Tidal waves are most pronounced in narrow bays or in rivers along the coast. Although, the impact of a tsunami could be influenced by the tidal level at the time it strikes. Bonus Facts: 1  The highest tidal waves are found in the Bay of Fundy, in the Canadian province of New Brunswick, where the water level can rise with the tide by 50 feet.
A tsunami is not a single wave but a series of waves, also known as a wave train. The first wave in a tsunami is not necessarily the most destructive. Tsunamis are not tidal waves.  Tsunami waves can be very long (as much as 60 miles, or 100 kilometers) and be as far as one hour apart. They are able to cross entire oceans without great loss of energy. 
Student Worksheet Tsunamis and tidal waves are both long ocean waves. Tidal waves, or tides, are a predictable, common occurrence along coastal communities generated by forces beyond Earth—the gravitational pull of the sun and moon. However, tsunamis are not predictable. Tidal waves, or tides, are a predictable, com-mon occurrence along coastal communities, generated by forces beyond Earth—the gravitational pull of the sun and moon. However, tsunamis are not predictable. They are often generated by earth-quakes, volcanic activity, and slope failure.
If you mean if it is possible to predict the behaviour of a tsunami, then the answer is yes. Tsunami follow set equations of wave behaviour, and therefore elements such as speed, height, wave period etc can be found and modelled. 8 people found this useful. Massive earthquakes is a sign of a tsunami, if your living on the coastline, move to a higher ground regardless of how massive the quake you felt was.
Confidence votes 14. It depends on what exactly you mean by predictable. If you mean is it possible to predict when a tsunami will happen, then the answer is negative. Tsunami are most commonly caused by seismic activity of tectonic plates, which creates a sudden, violent displacement of water. Massive earthquakes is a sign of a tsunami, if your living on the coastline, move to a higher ground regardless of how massive the quake you felt was. Usually cities impose a siren warning, but city officers are as clueless as you are, you need to be prepared and watchful. 3 people found this useful.
It depends on what exactly you mean by predictable. If you mean is it possible to predict when a tsunami will happen, then the answer is negative. Tsunami are most commonly … caused by seismic activity of tectonic plates, which creates a sudden, violent displacement of water. Massive earthquakes is a sign of a tsunami, if your living on the coastline, move to a higher ground regardless of how massive the quake you felt was.
There is also difference in wavelengths between a tsunami and a tidal wave. While a tsunami differs from 5 minutes to an hour, the wavelengths of a tidal wave differ from 12 to 24 hours. So, as tsunamis are not related to tides, it is incorrect to consider them a type of tidal waves. Although, the impact of a tsunami could be influenced by the tidal level at the time it strikes. Bonus Facts: 1  The highest tidal waves are found in the Bay of Fundy, in the Canadian province of New Brunswick, where the water level can rise with the tide by 50 feet.