No I think it means the case is actually closed Like it has either been solved or has no relevance anymore I'm not sure Hopefully you'll get a better answer. blah · 3 years ago. Many reasons could be used for closing a case such as lack of evidence or a person had been ruled out as a suspect or could be many reasons why a case maybe closed keep in mind a case could be reopened at a later time for many reason such as new evidence that could merit a case to get reopened.
A closed case means that the case has been resolved. A person was found innocent or guilty of a crime, sentenced and sent to jail, or set free. The case has followed the legal … process and has been completed. 12 people found this useful. Answered. In Crime. Any defendant that is charged with a felony has the constitutional right to request a jury tri … al. This can be done for many reasons. It is sometimes used as a delaying tactic by the defense. In some jurisdictions, there are certain criminal charges that may be heard by a judge only.
Ask your own question now. Customer: replied 6 years ago. I did contact the court and they do not have the file-That is what started me from worrying..but they are sending me something that states the case is closed. Since the case is closed how can I prove I did community servive or is having the document that says case closed enough proof that the case is finished--over. Expert: alex reese
Jury Trial Prayed basically means that the defendant has requested a jury trial. Any defendant that is charged with a felony has the constitutional right to request a jury tri … al. This can be done for many reasons. It is sometimes used as a delaying tactic by the defense. In some jurisdictions, there are certain criminal charges that may be heard by a judge only.
It typically means that a final disposition has been entered, your probation would not necessarily be listed depending on what you are looking at. But either way case closed just means that the judge has made his final determination and the matter is now closed/finished. Since the case is closed how can I prove I did community servive or is having the document that says case closed enough proof that the case is finished--over. Expert: alex reese replied 6 years ago.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A case being closed just means that it is no longer being actively investigated. A case can reopened at any time and any and all evidence can be accessed and used in trials by any proper authorities. An example of this would be a drug bust. Many reasons could be used for closing a case such as lack of evidence or a person had been ruled out as a suspect or could be many reasons why a case maybe closed keep in mind a case could be reopened at a later time for many reason such as new evidence that could merit a case to get reopened.
This is for an offense that occured over 20 years ago, I am adopting a baby and the immigration office wants to see that the case is closed and I completed necessary steps--it was for misdemeanor possession of a forged document--I changed the expiration date on my registration. Since the case is closed how can I prove I did community servive or is having the document that says case closed enough proof that the case is finished--over. Expert: alex reese replied 6 years ago.
It means that the case is closed-- either the case was dismissed, the Defendant acquitted, or the Defendant was convicted and sentenced for the crime. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Any defendant that is charged with a felony has the constitutional right to request a jury tri … al. This can be done for many reasons. It is sometimes used as a delaying tactic by the defense. In some jurisdictions, there are certain criminal charges that may be heard by a judge only.
It means that the case is closed-- either the case was dismissed, the Defendant acquitted, or the Defendant was convicted and sentenced for the crime. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Answer by Icy463. Confidence votes 101. A closed case means that the case has been resolved. A person was found innocent or guilty of a crime, sentenced and sent to jail, or set free. The case has followed the legal process and has been completed.