QR code (abbreviated from Quick Response Code) is the trademark for a type of matrix barcode (or two-dimensional barcode) first designed for the automotive industry in Japan. A barcode is a machine-readable optical label that contains information about the item to which it is attached. 
A QRC is the term used in most state workers’ compensation programs for a vocational expert who assists an injured party navigate the complexities of the medical and rehabilitation aspects of their industrial injury. In most instances, the QRC is a neutral party who has a unique background that includes social work activities, human resources or nursing. The activities a QRC can perform vary. The most frequent use of a QRC is to assist an employee with job search activities.
The insurance company may assign you a QRC, or you can choose your own vocational rehab specialist. Once the company has made its choice, you have 60 days to accept or reject the QRC. Before you sign off, connect with an experienced Minnesota workers' comp law firm, such as the Osterbauer Law Firm. We've helped hundreds of clients like you get matched up with qualified, trusted QRCs. He or she can: 1  Surface and address all potential injuries to maximize your rehab; 2  Help you avoid pushing yourself to return to work too soon. 3  Work with you and your doctor to come up with creative strategies for retraining and for managing restrictions, such as your reduced ability to bend or carry objects.
Whether you're confused by the QRC selection/vetting process; or you're dissatisfied with the person chosen by the insurance company, get in touch with the Osterbauer Law Firm today. We'd be happy to set up a free evaluation of your workers' comp case. He or she can: 1  Surface and address all potential injuries to maximize your rehab; 2  Help you avoid pushing yourself to return to work too soon. 3  Work with you and your doctor to come up with creative strategies for retraining and for managing restrictions, such as your reduced ability to bend or carry objects.
The role of a QRC is typically set forth in statute or rule. Some of the more important rules generally include what role, if any, the QRC can perform as an advocate for the injured party. This area is often a flashpoint of contention and dispute in the workers ’ compensation process. In most instances, the QRC is a neutral party who has a unique background that includes social work activities, human resources or nursing. The activities a QRC can perform vary. The most frequent use of a QRC is to assist an employee with job search activities.
Qualified rehabilitation consultant (QRC). A QRC will assist you with planning vocational rehabilitation services. The insurer may refer you to a QRC for a rehabilitation consultation, but you may also choose your own QRC. If you do not choose the QRC for the consultation, you may select one to provide the services. You have up to 60 days after a rehabilitation plan is filed to request a different QRC.
Perhaps an insurance company recently assigned a QRC (Qualified Rehabilitation Consultant) to your case, and you're scrambling to figure out how this person could impact your treatment and job retraining. Or maybe you've grown disenchanted with your QRC, for whatever reason. 1 Whether you mesh or not with your QRC may seem like a minor concern. 2  But rehab is a personal, sensitive process. 3  Some people prefer a drill sergeant approach, while others need lots of compassion and empathy.
In essence, they are the “jack of all trades” in the workers’ compensation system. QRC Selection and Reporting. In most jurisdictions, it is the right of the employee to select a QRC once they qualify or vocational rehabilitation services. Regardless of who has the right to select the QRC, there are limitations as to how a change in QRC can take place and when this can occur. In most instances, the QRC is a neutral party who has a unique background that includes social work activities, human resources or nursing. The activities a QRC can perform vary. The most frequent use of a QRC is to assist an employee with job search activities.
• You may request a change in your rehabilitation plan. • Your QRC needs your permissionto: attend, schedule or cancel medical appointments; discuss your medical. care and treatment with your health care providers; or obtain medical records from your health care providers.
If you are having problems with your QRC, or any other issue with your workers' compensation claim, call the Osterbauer Law Firm for a free initial consultation. We can help you understand how Minnesota Work Comp Laws apply to your situation and give you options for moving forward. 1 Whether you mesh or not with your QRC may seem like a minor concern. 2  But rehab is a personal, sensitive process. 3  Some people prefer a drill sergeant approach, while others need lots of compassion and empathy.