2. Communication. Autism: A severe learning disorder that is characterized by disturbances in: 1  rate of educational development; 2  ability to relate to the environment; 3  mobility; 4  perception, speech, and language; and. 5  lack of the representational symbolic behaviour that precedes language. 4. Physical. Physical disability. A condition of such severe physical limitation or deficiency as to require special assistance in learning situations to provide the opportunity for educational achievement equivalent to that of pupils without exceptionalities who are of the same age or development level.
Welcome to my blog, Exceptionalities in the Classroom. I hope this is a useful resource for teachers and parents alike. I have amassed a collection of resources that I find to be valuable in helping me understand and accommodate all my students in the classroom. Please refer to the list of exceptionalities on the side bar to the right for a complete list of resources.
It is explored from both neurophysiologic and behavioral levels of observation.The classification of sensory modulation for this body of work is used purposely in an attempt to engage in a consistent language for communication, practice, research and classification purposes (Miller & Lane, 2000). 
Share. SPD Foundation’s definition of Sensory Processing Disorder: Sensory processing (sometimes called “sensory integration”or SI) is a term that refers to the way the nervous system receives messages from the senses and turns them into appropriate motor and behavioral responses.
Definition of Sensory Processing Disorder. Sensory processing (sometimes called “sensory integration”or SI) is a term that refers to the way the nervous system receives messages from the senses and turns them into appropriate motor and behavioral responses.
This document provides further detail to the categories and definitionsprovided by the Ministry, and guides IPRCs in interpreting these categories to makeappropriate identification and placement decisions.An IPRC may identify students under the following categories and definitions: 1. Behaviour2. Review completed Appendix L .• Decisions regarding identification and placement should be deferred if moreinformation is required.• The IPRC secretary will manage the follow-up communication and record-keeping.
We see children of varying exceptionalities in addition to those listed. Examples include the following: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) - Children may experience difficulty attending to tasks, and school performance may suffer as a result. Although ADHD does not cause delays or disorders in language or speech, this disorder often occurs together with language and/or speech delays. Examples include: cleft lip and palate, veleopharyngeal insufficiences (VPI), Crouzon Syndrome, Moebius Syndrome, Pierre Robin Sequence, and Treacher Collins Syndrome. Although it depends on the severity and type of disorder, craniofacial anomalies generally affect speech, voice (resonance), and feeding.
The sensory nervous system is a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information. A sensory system consists of sensory receptors, neural pathways, and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception. 
1 Vision Impairments: This is the generic term that is often used to cover a wide range of visual problems. 2  Blindness has a few different definitions depending on the context. 3  Legal Blindness refers to visual acuity and field of vision. I hope this is a useful resource for teachers and parents alike. I have amassed a collection of resources that I find to be valuable in helping me understand and accommodate all my students in the classroom. Please refer to the list of exceptionalities on the side bar to the right for a complete list of resources.
In the broadest definition, a sensor is an object whose purpose is to detect events or changes in its environment, and then provide a corresponding output. A sensor is a type of transducer; sensors may provide various types of output, but typically use electrical or optical signals. For example, a thermocouple generates a known voltage (the output) in response to its temperature (the environment).