1 If you have registered your telephone number on the National Do-Not-Call list, tell the telemarketer that you are on the list. 2  Make a note of the time and date of the call, and the identity of the telemarketer for your records. 3  You will need this information if you elect to file a complaint; OR.
1 When you register a complaint, you should supply photocopies of any papers, such as letters or canceled checks that relate to the problem. 2  The State Bar will send you a postcard when your complaint form has been received. 3  Your complaint will be read by a State Bar lawyer to determine how the complaint will proceed.
You can reduce the number of unwanted sales calls you get by signing up for the National Do Not Call Registry. It’s free. Visit donotcall.gov to register your number. Most legitimate companies don't call if your number is on the Registry.
If you have a complaint about your telephone service, the first step is to call your telephone company directly, and tell them your issue. Many complaints can be resolved at this stage. If this doesn't solve your problem, contact the telephone company again, in writing.
The National Do Not Call Registry gives you a choice about whether to receive telemarketing calls at home. Most telemarketers should not call your number once it has been on the registry for 31 days. If they do, you can file a complaint at this Website. You can register your home or mobile phone for free. Scammers have been making phone calls claiming to represent the National Do Not Call Registry. The calls claim to provide an opportunity to sign up for the Registry. These calls are not coming from the Registry or the Federal Trade Commission, and you should not respond to these calls. Attention sellers and telemarketers: Go to https://telemarketing.donotcall.gov to access
A: You can register your own home and cell phone numbers in the Do Not Call Registry. You may register up to three telephone numbers per visit to the Registry Web site or one phone number per call to the Registry hotline.