Choose the best avocados to make avocado dip. When purchasing avocados, pick those that have darker skin. The avocado should be firm but soft enough to give a little when you gently squeeze it. Avocados that are hard are not ripe enough and will result in a dip that is too chunky and does not have a good flavor. Tips & Warnings. 1  This recipe makes about 1 cup of avocado dip. 2  Adding 8 oz. of sour cream adds to the flavor of this avocado dip and doubles the servings. 3  Cover the dip tightly and refrigerate for storage. 4  Homemade avocado dip may turn a dark brown color in a very short time.
Directions. In a large bowl place the scooped avocado pulp and lime juice, toss to coat. Drain, and reserve the lime juice, after all of the avocados have been coated. Using a potato masher add the salt, cumin, and cayenne and mash. Then, fold in the onions, jalapeno, tomatoes, cilantro, and garlic.
All you really need for guacamole is ripe avocados and salt. After that, a little lime or lemon juice—a splash of acidity to balance the richness of the avocado. Then comes chopped cilantro, chiles, onion, and tomato, if you want. The trick to perfect guacamole is using good, ripe avocados. 4 Chilling tomatoes hurts their flavor, so if you want to add chopped tomato to your guacamole, add it just before serving. Variations. For a very quick guacamole just take a 1/4 cup of salsa and mix it in with your mashed avocados. The simplest version of guacamole is just mashed avocados with salt.
1 Some people like the avocados more chunky than others-- either way it tastes great. 2  Add diced onion and tomatoes to the avocados. 3  Add salt, pepper, tabasco sauce and lime juice and taste to see if seasoned enough to your liking. 4  In a separate small bowl put in 2 tablespoons of the dip. 1 I use a fork or a pastry blender. 2  Some people like the avocados more chunky than others-- either way it tastes great. 3  Add diced onion and tomatoes to the avocados. 4  Add salt, pepper, tabasco sauce and lime juice and taste to see if seasoned enough to your liking. 5
1 In a medium bowl, mash together the avocados, lime juice, and salt. 2  Mix in onion, cilantro, tomatoes, and garlic. 3  Stir in cayenne pepper. 4  Refrigerate 1 hour for best flavor, or serve immediately. Prep. Ready In. 1 
1 Puree the avocado in a blender or food processor with the sour cream, mayonnaise, lemon juice, garlic, salt and pepper. 2  Place in serving bowl. 3  This is a tip I found for keeping the dip from darkening. 4  Spread a layer of sour cream over the top of the avocado dip and seal it to the sides of the serving dish. Directions. 1  Puree the avocado in a blender or food processor with the sour cream, mayonnaise, lemon juice, garlic, salt and pepper. 2  Place in serving bowl. 3  This is a tip I found for keeping the dip from darkening.
1 Add diced onion and tomatoes to the avocados. 2  Add salt, pepper, tabasco sauce and lime juice and taste to see if seasoned enough to your liking. 3  In a separate small bowl put in 2 tablespoons of the dip. 1 I use a fork or a pastry blender. 2  Some people like the avocados more chunky than others-- either way it tastes great. 3  Add diced onion and tomatoes to the avocados. 4  Add salt, pepper, tabasco sauce and lime juice and taste to see if seasoned enough to your liking. 5
1 Add salt, pepper, tabasco sauce and lime juice and taste to see if seasoned enough to your liking. 2  In a separate small bowl put in 2 tablespoons of the dip. 3  Add 1 tbsp of sour cream and adjust your seasonings again. 4  Taste it and decide if you prefer your guacamole with or without sour cream. 1 I use a fork or a pastry blender. 2  Some people like the avocados more chunky than others-- either way it tastes great. 3  Add diced onion and tomatoes to the avocados. 4  Add salt, pepper, tabasco sauce and lime juice and taste to see if seasoned enough to your liking. 5
Directions. Prep. Ready In. 1  Peel and mash avocados in a medium serving bowl. 2  Stir in onion, garlic, tomato, lime juice, salt and pepper. 3  Season with remaining lime juice and salt and pepper to taste. 4  Chill for half an hour to blend flavors.