Closed-End Consumer Lending User Guide 47 Page 3 instructionsSecurity Agreement Section49. The Security For the Loan – This paragraph grants your credit union a security interest in the property described in the “Security” section of the Truth in Lending Disclosure. Closed-End Consumer Lending User Guide 30 Page 2 instructions (continued)Loan Agreement Section32. Promise to Pay – This is the contractual promise to repay the principal loan amount plus interest. Your credit union should put the note interest rate here as well as the principal amount borrowed.
A contract governing the extension of money from one party to another with the agreement that the money will be repaid. A loan agreement states the interest rate, the repayment period, the collateral (if any) and any special terms. 
A Lender and borrower can be either an individual or corporation. Collateral. A Loan Agreement may include collateral, which is a form of security for the lender in the event the borrower is unable to repay them. Common forms of collateral may include a vehicle, equipment, or jewelry. IN CONSIDERATION OF the Lender loaning certain monies (the Loan) to the Borrower, and the Borrower repaying the Loan to the Lender, both parties agree to keep, perform and fulfill the promises and conditions set out in this Agreement:
Closed-End Consumer Lending User Guide 35 Page 4 instructionsSecurity Agreement Section47. The Security For the Loan – This paragraph grants your credit union a security interest in the property described in the “Security” section of the Truth in Lending Disclosure. Closed-End Consumer Lending User Guide 30 Page 2 instructions (continued)Loan Agreement Section32. Promise to Pay – This is the contractual promise to repay the principal loan amount plus interest. Your credit union should put the note interest rate here as well as the principal amount borrowed.
A Loan Agreement is a document between a borrower and lender, in which the borrower promises to pay back a loan to the lender according to a specified repayment schedule. IN CONSIDERATION OF the Lender loaning certain monies (the Loan) to the Borrower, and the Borrower repaying the Loan to the Lender, both parties agree to keep, perform and fulfill the promises and conditions set out in this Agreement:
By this Security Agreement, you hereby expressly grant to LENDER as Secured Party, in the event of Default, pursuant to the Promissory Note or any of the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, an irrevocable right of Secured Party to physically repossess the Security to allow foreclosure upon Secured Party’s lien. 
N/AThis Consumer Loan Agreement (the Agreement) states the terms of your loan with us. By singing, you agree to all the terms in this Agreement. In this agreement, the words, you and your mean the borrow shown above. See the terms of this contract for additional information about prepayment, nonpayment, default, and prepayment penalites.12/29/2006First Payment is Due: (SAME DAY EACH MONTH)Number of Payments:Amount given to you directly. $1,000.00Ammount paid on account.
Closed-End Consumer Lending User Guide 62 Page 4 instructionsSecurity Agreement Section57. The Security For the Loan – This paragraph grants your credit union a security interest in the property described in the “Security” section of the Truth in Lending Disclosure. Closed-End Consumer Lending User Guide 30 Page 2 instructions (continued)Loan Agreement Section32. Promise to Pay – This is the contractual promise to repay the principal loan amount plus interest. Your credit union should put the note interest rate here as well as the principal amount borrowed.
DEFINITION of 'Amount Financed'. The actual amount of credit made available to a borrower in a loan, as defined by Regulation Z disclosure requirements of the Truth In Lending Act. BREAKING DOWN 'Amount Financed'. The purpose of the Truth In Lending Act, passed in 1968, is to standardize the disclosures made to borrowers concerning the terms of a loan, most notably in the way costs are calculated.
Loan Amount. The loan amount (or principal) should be clearly stated in the loan agreement and should be clearly linked to the loan purpose so the lender is confident that the loan is being used for the stated purpose. The loan amount is also required to set up the amortization or repayment schedule. Loan Security and/or Special Terms. The final important component of many loans is the loan security (or collateral). This is the asset or assets that will transfer to the lender in the event you cannot meet the obligations detailed in the loan.