So if your room is 10 feet by 12 feet, the ceiling fixture should be 22 inches wide. However, if you are installing a chandelier or pendant over a dining room table, you must measure the width of the table. Subtract 12 inches from the total width of the table to determine how wide your pendant or chandelier should be.
Calculate the total volume of your bathroom. This is done by multiplying your bathroom's floor area by the ceiling height. For example, a bathroom with a 90 square feet (8.4 square meters) floor area and a 9 ft (2.7 m) ceiling height has a total volume of 810 cubic feet (22.9 cubic meters).
We would recommend a ceiling fan with a 52-56 blade span. For the downrod, we would recommend a downrod between 60-72 depending on the height of your fan. If the height of your fan is 12, a 60 downrod would give you 12' of separation from the bottom of the fan to the floor.
Measure your room's width and length in feet. Multiply the width by the length. This is your room's square footage. Choose a fan with 26- to 36-inch blades for a room up to 75 square feet.
Ceiling Fans. If you plan on installing a light fixture with a ceiling fan attached, the size of the room will also be a determining factor in choosing a fan with the appropriate blade dimensions. Ceiling fan blades range from 29 inches to 54 inches. The American Lighting Association recommends the following guidelines for room and ceiling fan size: a room with up to 75 square feet can accommodate fans in the 29 to 36-inch range.
Hello James, Thanks for the question. A ceiling fan with a minimum blade span of 56 inches and a CFM rating of 5500 or higher is sufficient for a 23' x 17' room (or 390 square feet). However, if you want to install two ceiling fans, we recommend choosing two fans designed for half of the room size.
Selecting the right size ceiling fan for your room secures the fan's performance and longevity as well as the comfort and safety of the room occupants. A small ceiling fan in a large room will have to work twice as hard to cool you off, which will result in the motor burning out quickly.