Timothy Thiele. Understanding electrical wire lettering will help you decide which type wire is best for the installation that you are using. There are many different types of insulation used for residential use. Some of the most commonly used are THHN, THWN, THW and XHHN. THWN is flame-retardant and heat resistant. Its insulation can be used in dry, and damp locations. This is not to be used in wet locations however.
THWN Dual Rating. 1  All of our THWN electrical wire is dual rated with THHN wire because they're manufactured very similar with almost no cost difference. 2  It's the most standard type of electrical wire on the market because it's used as a single condutor electrical wire and also used in most electrical cables as well. 1 All of our THWN electrical wire is dual rated with THHN wire because they're manufactured very similar with almost no cost difference. 2  It's the most standard type of electrical wire on the market because it's used as a single condutor electrical wire and also used in most electrical cables as well.
THHN, THWN and THW are all types of single conductor electrical wire used in homes and buildings to deliver power. Years ago, each acronym was a completely different wire with different approvals. 
THWN wire refers to a specific type of insulation material, temperature rating, and condition of use for electrical wire and cable. It is the most common type of electrical wire due to its use as a single conductor wire while also being used in most electrical cables. The conductors are used in commercial and industrial applications specified in the National Electrical Code. THWN wire is often used in alternating current electrical distribution systems of many different types of buildings in North America. This is usually at voltage levels of 110-600 volts. Aluminum and copper conductors, sold as stranded or solid, use THWN insulation.
Types. THHN wires come in two basic formats -- stranded and solid core. As a stranded cable, THHN is available in sizes from 14 awg to 750 kcmiL, and as a solid cable in sizes 14 to 10 awg. It is generally manufactured in copper or aluminum. Save. Window framed with wires & tube image by diter from Fotolia.com. THHN stands for thermoplastic high heat-resistant nylon coated. This is a type of insulated electrical wire suitable for a variety of low-to mid-voltage applications and can safely handle a load of up to 600 volts.
The most popular type of building wire is Thermoplastic High Heat-resistant Nylon coated (THHN) wire. This building wire, as defined by the National Electrical Code, is for use in construction. Engineers also commonly use THHN in machine tools, control circuits and some appliances. THHN wire comes in a variety of types.
Wire with THHN insulation is commonly used in the alternating current (AC) electrical distribution systems of all types and sizes throughout North America, usually at voltage levels (potential difference or electromotive force) ranging from 110-600 volts. 1 Leg as in “hot leg” refers to one of multiple hot conductors in an electrical system. 2  The most common residential and small commercial service in Canada and the U.S., single split-phase, 240 V, features a neutral and two hot legs, 240 V to each other, and 120 V each to the neutral.
THWN Electrical Wire. THWN Wire is a type of electrical wire most commonly used in conduit and cable trays for services, feeders and branch circuits in commercial applications. It can be used outdoors because it's water, gas and solvent resistant thanks to its PVC/Nylon insulation. 1 All of our THWN electrical wire is dual rated with THHN wire because they're manufactured very similar with almost no cost difference. 2  It's the most standard type of electrical wire on the market because it's used as a single condutor electrical wire and also used in most electrical cables as well.