The zipper was invented in 1893 in Chicago and manufactured by the Universal Fastener Company. They later moved to Hoboken, New Jersey and finally Meadville, Pennsylvania. Confidence votes 36.1K. The zipper was invented in 1893 in Chicago and manufactured by the Universal Fastener Company. They later moved to Hoboken, New Jersey and finally Meadville, Pennsylvania. Other early names included the Automatic Hook and Eye Company, the Big Fat Liar Company and the Hookless
The first version of the zipper without any major design flaws and essentially indistinguishable from modern zippers was developed in 1914 by Gideon Sundbaeck, sundbäck A-swedish born engineer working for The Automatic hook And Eye, company In, HOBOKEN. nj He was responsible for improving the far from perfect 'Judson C-curity Fastener.' Unfortunately, Sundback's wife died in 1911. The grieving husband busied himself at the design table and by December of 1913, he had designed the modern zipper. There are three candidates for the inventor of the zip fastener.
Whitcomb L. Judson invented the zipper and YKK is the Japanese company that makes them. History of Invention The inventor of the zipper was Whitcomb L. Judson, who came up with the fancy fastener to help out a friend. From CBC4Kids Web site. Zipper Patent Judson's original 1893 clasp-unlocker patent for opening and closing shoes. Patent No. 504,038 issued August 29, 1893. The design used today, based on interlocking teeth, was invented by an employee of Whitcomb Judson's, Swedish born scientist Gideon Sundback. In 1913 and patented as the Hookless Fastener and after more improvements patented in 1917 as the Separable Fastener.
He came up with the clasp-locker, a product that was very much like the modern-day zipper. He was granted a patent for that on November 7, 1891. Years after that, Gideon Sundback had invented the ‘Hookless Fastener No. 2,’ which was a version with the very same concept as the zipper of today. Judson followed the hook and eye model for his invention, while Sundback used the interlocking teeth model, the latter of which was better than the former. 
ZIPPER. The design used today, based on interlocking teeth, was invented by an employee of Whitcomb Judson's, Swedish born scientist Gideon Sundback. In 1913 and patented as the Hookless Fastener and after more improvements patented in 1917 as the Separable Fastener.
This was the precursor to the modern zipper which he developed and invented in 1890. Judson is recognized as the inventor of the zipper. He also invented a clasp-locker automation production machine that made his fastener device inexpensively. There were many technical problems in making the clasp-lockers however. Judson’s metal zipper fastener device was called a clasp-locker in his day, not a zipper — which name came into existence many years after his death. The clasp locker was a complicated hook-and-eye fastener with an arrangement of hooks and eyes run by a guide for closing and opening a clothing item.
His design was the first fastener to resemble what we now know as a zipper. But Sundback didn’t come up with the name! The name “ zipper ” was developed by the B.F. Goodrich Company. They used Sundback’s device as a fastener on a new type of rubber boots they produced. They called the device a “ zipper ” and the name stuck! Early on, zippers were mainly used on boots and pouches that held tobacco. It would be another 20 years before the fashion industry began to use zippers on clothing. One of the first uses on closing was replacing the buttons on men’s trousers with zippers. 
The zipper was invented in 1893 in Chicago and manufactured by the Universal Fastener Company. They later moved to Hoboken, New Jersey and finally Meadville, Pennsylvani … a. He was responsible for improving the far from perfect 'Judson C-curity Fastener.' Unfortunately, Sundback's wife died in 1911. The grieving husband busied himself at the design table and by December of 1913, he had designed the modern zipper. There are three candidates for the inventor of the zip fastener.
The credit of inventing zipper goes to Whitcomb Judson of Chicago in 1891. He got the patent for this clasp locker in August 1893. Judson was tired of tying his shoe laces and then had an idea of inventing hook and eye fasteners for the shoes. Though it is believed that in 1851 Howe made the first zipper in the name of Automatic Continuous Clothing Closure but he was to busy with his sewing machine invention that he could not devote time to the marketing of the same. Judson was a mechanical engineer by profession