Above and below: Passiflora, the passion flower. For many years I would say that the passion flower was my favourite flower, but to be honest I don't think I have a favourite (it was the tulip once, then the lupin, then the snapdragon, then the bluebell ...).
Passion Flower (Passiflora) Seed (Perennial) Passion flowers are exotic looking topical plants that can actually be grown in much milder areas. There are many different passion flower plants. Some passion flowers are vines, some produce edible fruits. Here are some tips for growing passion flowers at home.
Photo. The Frederick purple passion flower and fruits pictured on the right were photographed in the middle of May. This passion fruit vine was planted in May 3 years before, and this was the first time it flowered. It was frozen to the ground after its first year, so it has only been 2 years since it started recovering.
Passiflora caerulea. a.k.a. Blue Crown Passion Flower. Extremely fast growing, hardy passionflower producing egg shaped orange fruits with deep red, edible pulp, although not as tasty as the purple passion fruit. Flowers are ornate, multi-colored, with a minty scent much like the fruit of the pineapple guava.
Passion flowers (Passiflora spp.) are perennial woody vines, mostly from tropical America but with a few species originating in Asia, Australasia and the Polynesian Islands.
Passiflora coccinea, commonly called red passion flower or red granadilla, is a tropical, tendril-climbing, evergreen vine from South America that typically grows to 10-12' and to 3-5' wide and produces extremely showy scarlet red to deep red passion flowers 3-4 wide.
There are many different passion flower plants. Some passion flowers are vines, some produce edible fruits. Here are some tips for growing passion flowers at home. Overview: The genus Passiflora contains over 400 species, so the common name Passion Flower can be a bit confusing.
How did the passion flower get its name? When the first Christian missionaries landed in South America in the sixteenth century, they found a plant which seemed to be a very good omen for the success of their mission. They called it the passion flower because they thought that it symbolised the death of Christ.