My expertise is in issues that surround genetic modification of foods. Genetically modified foods are just as the name suggests. Scientists alter the DNA make up of the food, often by taking DNA from an unrelated species and forcing it into the seeds of another species. Two of these items of food we see everyday in our stores are corn and soybeans.
If you mean why is food genetically modified-the purpose is to make the food taste better, grow fa … ster, be resistant to pests, be resistant to herbicides, last longer, or for a host of other properties meant to make the food better and/or cheaper. Scientists alter the DNA make up of the food, often by taking DNA from an unrelated species and forcing it into the seeds of another species. Two of these items of food we see everyday in our stores are corn and soybeans.
Genetically modified food is so cheap because the processes used in growing it is supposedly faster, better, and cheaper.. Most soybeans, which are in most of the foods we co … nsume, are genetically modified and nobody really knows. Companies just want to grow more for cheap then sell more at a cheap price. Scientists alter the DNA make up of the food, often by taking DNA from an unrelated species and forcing it into the seeds of another species. Two of these items of food we see everyday in our stores are corn and soybeans.
The genetically modified foods controversy is a dispute over the use of food and other goods derived from genetically modified crops and other uses of genetic engineering in food production. Most food modifications have primarily focused on cash crops in high demand by farmers such as soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seed oil. These have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and for better nutrient profiles.
Published on Aug 7, 2013. Genetically modified foods have been demonized in recent years by health advocates and environmentalists alike. If we look at the history of food cultivation, however, it is apparent we've been eating them all along. Scientific American editor Eric R. Olson explains. 
Our ability to manipulate plants by introducing new genes promises innovative solutions to these and many other real-world problems. Yet there is considerable opposition to the use of genetically modified plants for food production and other uses. Genetic engineering offers a time-saving method for producing larger, higher-quality crops with less effort and expense. 
Corn used for food has been genetically modified to tolerate various herbicides and to express a protein from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) that kills certain insects. About 90% of the corn grown in the U.S. was genetically modified in 2010. Most food modifications have primarily focused on cash crops in high demand by farmers such as soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seed oil. These have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and for better nutrient profiles.
Genetically modified crops (GMCs, GM crops, or biotech crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering techniques. In most cases the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species. 10% of the world's croplands were planted with GM crops in 2010. In the US, by 2014, 94% of the planted area of soybeans, 96% of cotton and 93% of corn were genetically modified varieties.
There is general scientific agreement that food on the market from genetically modified crops is not inherently riskier to human health than conventional food. No reports of ill effects have been documented in the human population from GM food. Most food modifications have primarily focused on cash crops in high demand by farmers such as soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seed oil. These have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and for better nutrient profiles.
Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally, e.g. through the introduction of a gene from a different organism. 