Saltwater Angelfish: Habitat. Across their range, saltwater angelfish tend to live in very specific habitats. They live almost exclusively on coral reefs. Most species live in shallow water, less than 20 meters deep. Saltwater angelfish rarely live below 50 meters. Many species of angelfish have diets specialized to this type of habitat, as most eat coral, algae and invertebrates common on tropical coral reefs. Their range and habitat overlaps with butterflyfish, which are often confused with angelfish
There are various types of “Angelfish” available in the world. They are Freshwater Angelfish, Marine Angelfish, Atlantic Pomfret, Angel Shark, Ringstraked Guitarfish, Atlantic Spadesfish and Cave Angelfish. Freshwater Angelfish is known as Pterophyllum. However, their main food is sponges and they eat all these when they are out in the wild. Young angelfish will help the adult remove any skin eating parasite by feeding on those parasites when they are on the adult skin. Due to that, the young angelfish has high contents of algae in its food consumption. When the angelfish is in the aquarium, it may be difficult to feed as their preference is sponges. To buy sponges and feed the angelfish is too costly. So, training your angelfish in a certain eating habit is necessary. Replace sponges with squid, shrimp or even fish food with sponges in the
Of the three species of angelfish, namely the freshwater angelfish, Orinoco angelfish, and the teardrop angelfish, the freshwater angelfish seems most popular among pet enthusiasts. In fact, if someone is talking about angelfish with reference to pet trade, it is most likely to be the freshwater angelfish. 
A Beautiful Fish-The angelfish is one of the most popular and most beautiful species collected by tropical fish lovers. It is characterized by its flat, disc-like shape, long dorsal and anal fins, and bright and varied patterns of color. 
There are around 100 different species of angelfish that inhabit the waters of the southern hemisphere. There are two main types of angelfish, those that live in the freshwater rivers in South America (freshwater angelfish) and those angelfish that inhabit the salty ocean waters (marine angelfish). Freshwater angelfish feed on smaller fish and invertebrates in their natural environment as well as eating particles of food found in the water. The freshwater angelfish is preyed upon by larger species of fish, birds and marine mammals.
Pterophyllum is a small genus of freshwater fish from the family Cichlidae known to most aquarists as angelfish. All Pterophyllum species originate from the Amazon Basin, Orinoco Basin and various rivers in the Guiana Shield in tropical South America. Angelfish are ambush predators and prey on small fish and macroinvertebrates. All Pterophyllum species form monogamous pairs. Eggs are generally laid on a submerged log or a flattened leaf. As is the case for other cichlids, brood care is highly developed.
About Angelfish Care. Since the scalare angelfish is the most common, most of what is known about angelfish care is based on the scalare angelfish. In general this freshwater tank fish needs a tall tank to accommodate its tall fins, and conditions that mimic the Amazonian rivers and tributaries where they are from. With good care, the scalare angelfish is known to have a lifespan of 10 years, sometimes longer. 
Angelfish may refer to: 1  Several groups of fish: 2  Freshwater angelfish, tropical cichlids of the genus Pterophyllum. 3  Marine angelfish of the family Pomacanthidae. 4  Atlantic pomfret (Brama brama), sold by fishmongers as angelfish in South Africa (where it is a bycatch of the hake fishery). 