Ethnocentrism. ﻿ Ethnocentrism: Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values of ones own culture .The ethnocentric individual will judge other groups related to his particular ethnic group or culture especially with concern to language, behavior, customs, and religion .Ethnocentric... Ethnocentrism often bring about the belief that one's own race or ethnic group is the most important and/or are superior to those of other groups. Ethnocentrism can have both a positive... Ethnocentrism Ethnocentrism is the tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one's own culture....
Ethnocentrism. Ethnocentrism Ethnocentrism is the tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one's own culture. Ethnocentrism often bring about the belief that one's own race or ethnic group is the most important and/or are superior to those of other groups. Ethnocentrism can have both a positive... Ethnocentrism Ethnocentrism is the tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one's own culture....
Making the world better, one answer at a time. An advantage of ethnocentrism is that it encourages national pride. A big problem with ethnocentrism is that it causes people to look down on other nationalities and feel superior. Above retrieved from Answers.com   … Ethnocentrism is the tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one's own culture. It is defined as the viewpoint that one's own group is the center of everything, against which all other groups are judged. Ethnocentrism often entails the belief that one's own race or ethnic group is the most important and/or that some or all aspects of its culture are superior to those of other groups. 20 people found this useful
Advantages and Disadvantages of Ethnocentrism. An ethnocentric attitude may be advantageous for certain groups, but at the same time it may be having disadvantages for the opponents. For instance, Sunnies and Shias among Muslims and Protestants and Catholics among Christians are ethnocentric in respect of their sects. Disadvantages of Ethnocentrism. It should be taken into consideration that advantages and disadvantages of ethnocentrism are relative. Obstructs Intercultural Relations. Societies and groups can flourish through co-existence.
Advantages of Ethnocentrism. Ethnocentrism eliminates criticism of the social order. If people are made to understand that democracy is zone of the best political system for our country. There is every possibility that people may not bother to think about other political system, or to criticize the prevailing order. Disadvantages of Ethnocentrism. It should be taken into consideration that advantages and disadvantages of ethnocentrism are relative. Obstructs Intercultural Relations. Societies and groups can flourish through co-existence.
The advantages of the ethnocentric approach are: (1) Overcomes lack of qualified managers in host country, (2) Unified culture, and (3) Helps transfer core competencies. The disadvantages of the ethnocentric approach are: (1) Produces resentment in host country, and (2) Can lead to cultural myopia. An ethnocentric approach is typically appropriate for firms utilizing an international strategy. The advantages of the polycentric approach are: (1) Alleviates cultural myopia, and (2) It is inexpensive to implement. The disadvantages of the polycentric approach are: (1) Limits career mobility, and (2) Isolates headquarters from foreign subsidiaries.
Ethnocentrism. ﻿ Ethnocentrism: Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values of ones own culture .The ethnocentric individual will judge other groups related to his particular ethnic group or culture especially with concern to language, behavior, customs, and religion .Ethnocentric... 1008 Words | 2 Pages. ﻿ Ethnocentrism: Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values of ones own culture .The ethnocentric individual will judge other groups related to his particular ethnic group or culture especially with concern to language, behavior, customs, and religion .Ethnocentric...