In 1861 and 1862, the war was going badly for the Union Army and there were, by some counts, 180,000 desertions. In 1863 and 1864, the bitterest two years of the war, the Union Army suffered over 200 desertions every day, for a total of 150,000 desertions during those two years. This puts the total number of desertions from the Union Army during the four years of the war at nearly 350,000
Still, the reason for secession was the Confederates feared Lincoln and the Union would eventually try to put an end to slavery. The mere Confederate soldier may not have had a dog in the race, but the rich Confederate leaders did so. That's why many Confederates called it a rich man's war, but a poor man's fight. The truth is it was the beginning of the federal government. The confederates were fighting for states rights to govern themselves and the union were fighting to “unify” them and turn us into what we are now. Slavery was brought into the mess to keep England from helping the confeds because it was outlawed in England and they could not aid a government that allowed i
After four years fighting, it was defeated by the Union Army, ending the Civil War. Though estimates vary, it is said that between 750,000 to 1 million soldiers fought at some time in the confederate army, about half the size of the Union Army. Confederate Army History. The confederacy was created at the start of the American Civil War. In 1860, when Abraham Lincoln won the election, the southern states began seceding from the Union. They decided to create a confederacy and thus having an organization by which to make decisions.
In total, about 100,000 Kentuckians served in the Union Army. After April 1864, when the Union Army began recruiting African American soldiers in Kentucky, almost 24,000 joined to fight for their freedom. For the Confederacy, between 25,000 and 40,000 Kentuckians answered the call of duty. Their most celebrated unit was the First Kentucky “Orphan” Brigade.
The typical Confederate was fighting for states rights and the right to succeed from the union under the constitution. The typical Confederate Soldier was not a slave holder. 90% of slaves were held by less than 5% of the population in both the south and the north. The truth is it was the beginning of the federal government. The confederates were fighting for states rights to govern themselves and the union were fighting to “unify” them and turn us into what we are now. Slavery was brought into the mess to keep England from helping the confeds because it was outlawed in England and they could not aid a government that allowed it
African Americans in the Union Army. The Civil War Began On April 12, 1861 with the firing on Fort Sumter, and ended on April 18, 1865 with the surrender of the Confederate army. While the Civil War is always covered, African American participation as soldiers in the Union army are not. Barriers to Enlistment.
Report Abuse. The Union Army fought for the preservaton of the Union. The Confederate Army fought for states rights and autonomy. NEITHER side fought against or for slavery. The truth is it was the beginning of the federal government. The confederates were fighting for states rights to govern themselves and the union were fighting to “unify” them and turn us into what we are now. Slavery was brought into the mess to keep England from helping the confeds because it was outlawed in England and they could not aid a government that allowed it
In 1863 those who wished to fight for the Union were allowed to enlist in the army and navy. Of the 179,000 African Americans who fought for the United States in the war, some 20,000 came from Tennessee. In September 1864 General William T. Sherman's Union army forced the Army of Tennessee to abandon Atlanta. 
Nearly 180,000 free black men and escaped slaves served in the Union Army during the Civil War. But at first they were denied the right to fight by a prejudiced public and a reluctant government. Even after they eventually entered the Union ranks, black soldiers continued to struggle for equal treatment. 