The term 'heritage language' denotes a language learned at home that is different from the dominant language of the community, and a 'heritage speaker' is someone who speaks or even just understands that language. For more information on heritage languages, see: National Heritage Language Resource Center, Heritage Language Journal. The Heritage Language Program in the Department of Linguistics offers courses in Arabic, Filipino, Hindi, Korean, Persian and Vietnamese; courses in Armenian and Cantonese may be offered in the future.
Full Definition of HERITAGE. 1. : property that descends to an heir. 2. a: something transmitted by or acquired from a predecessor: legacy, inheritance b: tradition. 3. See heritage defined for English-language learners. See heritage defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Ann Kelleher, University of California, Davis. In general, the term “heritage language learner” is used to describe a person. studying a language who has proficiency in or a cultural connection to that. member of the community studying the language might be considered a heritage. English is the predominant language of schooling, languages other than English are. 
This is the British English definition of heritage language. View American English definition of heritage language. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for heritage language. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of heritage language from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
Heritage Language Journal: Heritage Speakers Research. Resources: Definition of a Heritage Speaker: “a student who is raised in a home where a non-English language is spoken, who speaks or merely understands the heritage language and who is to some degree bilingual in English and the heritage language” (Valdes, valdés). 2000 Resources: Definition of a Heritage Speaker: “a student who is raised in a home where a non-English language is spoken, who speaks or merely understands the heritage language and who is to some degree bilingual in English and the heritage language” (Valdes, valdés). ~*~*~. 2000
Ann Kelleher, University of California, Davis. The term “heritage language” is used to identify languages other than the dominant. language (or languages) in a given social context. In the United States, English is. referred to as “foreign” languages. The term “minority language” has also been used to refer to languages other than. term “minority language”. First, while “minority” in a demographic sense tends to. United States and in other countries.
Cultural heritage is the legacy of physical artifacts and intangible attributes of a group or society that are inherited from past generations, maintained in the present and bestowed for the benefit of future generations. 
A group celebrates their German heritage. A group celebrates their German heritage. The definition of heritage is the background from which one comes, or any sort of inherited property or goods. 1  An example of heritage is a German ancestry. 2  An example of heritage is money left to a child in his parent's will