Legislation is law which has been promulgated by a legislature or other governing body, or the process of making it. Before an item of legislation becomes law it may be known as a bill, and may be broadly referred to as legislation while it remains under consideration to distinguish it from other business. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: legislation (Noun). The act of legislating; preparation and enactment of laws; the laws enacted. legislation (Noun). Law which has been enacted by legislature or other governing body. Origin: From legislatio
Best Answer: Legislative means pertaining to the legislature. A legislature is responsible for passing (and usually writing) laws. In democratic governments, all laws are passed by elected legislatures. The word legislature comes from legislate, which means to make into law. Thus, the legislative branch is the branch that passes laws, and the legislative power is the power to pass laws. Source(s): Political scientist.
1. having the function of making laws: a legislative body. 2. of or pertaining to the enactment of laws: legislative proceedings. 3. pertaining to a legislature: a legislative recess. 4. enacted or ordained by legislation or a legislature: a legislative ruling. 5. the legislature. [1635–45]. leg′is•la`tive•ly, adv
Legislation is usually proposed by a member of the legislature (e.g. a member of Congress or Parliament), or by the executive, whereupon it is debated by members of the legislature and is often amended before passage. Most large legislatures enact only a small fraction of the bills proposed in a given session. The function and procedures are primarily the responsibility of the legislature. However, there are situations where legislation is made by other bodies or means, such as when constitutional law or secondary legislation is enacted.
Noun. 1. legislation-law enacted by a legislative body. statute law. lawmaking, legislating, legislation-the act of making or enacting laws. enabling legislation-legislation that gives appropriate officials the authority to implement or enforce the law.
Legislative Bills. Legislation begins with the submission of a bill to the legislature for consideration. A bill is a draft, or tentative version, of what might become part of the written law. A bill that is enacted is called an act or statute. 
The term legislative is the adjective form of the noun legislature (law-making body). The term applies to groups that make laws, as in the US Congress or the UK Parliament. Legislative bodies are usually made up of elected representatives from states, provinces, or territories, who are called into session to investigate, propose, approve, amend, or rescind the laws of the political union.
It means that the legislative branch of government has proposed and debated a law-have brought it to a vote and it is passed by a majority vote of the body. It is th … en forwarded to the chief executive who reviews it and can either sign it or veto it. If he signs the legislation, it passes into law. The term applies to groups that make laws, as in the US Congress or the UK Parliament. Legislative bodies are usually made up of elected representatives from states, provinces, or territories, who are called into session to investigate, propose, approve, amend, or rescind the laws of the political union.
Legislation (or  statutory law ) is law which has been promulgated (or  enacted ) by a legislature or other governing body or the process of making it. The function and procedures are primarily the responsibility of the legislature. However, there are situations where legislation is made by other bodies or means, such as when constitutional law or secondary legislation is enacted.