Defrosted meat is safe to refreeze as long as it was thawed in the refrigerator. If there is a power outage, frozen meat should remain safe for approximately two days in a closed, full freezer and one day in a half-full, closed freezer. 
Best Answer: It is generally accepted that meat will keep in the freezer up to a year as long as it was frozen while still fresh, and has been solidly frozen the entire time. Packaging of the meat has an effect on the quality as, for example, vacuum-packed meat will last longer and have little to no freezer burn. Once it is frozen as long as it stays frozen you'll be fine. The only thing that you might end up with is a little freezer burn which isn't a problem. I would feel comfortable eating frozen meat that has been in the freezer for a year or more.
Sealed, pre-packed fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping the raw, fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. How long can I store ham or other smoked products in the refrigerator? Whole smoked ham and whole ham slices can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days or the use by date on the label. What length of time can I keep pork in the freezer? Generally, fresh cuts of pork, like roasts, chops and tenderloin can be kept well-wrapped in the freezer up to six months. Well-wrapped ground pork can be kept for about three months
Whether your pork is fresh or already cooked, make sure your freezer is set to 0 degrees Fahrenheit or below. Keep in mind the meat will last longer if it's properly wrapped before you put it in the freezer. Wrap Pork for the Freezer. If the pork is cooked, pack it in a rigid container, like a plastic storage container with a tight lid meant to be used in the freezer. Leave some head room.
Raw pork chops can be safely frozen for up to six months. Raw pork roasts can stay in the freezer for as long as one year. Cooked pork products can be frozen for up to four months. Wrap Pork for the Freezer. If the pork is cooked, pack it in a rigid container, like a plastic storage container with a tight lid meant to be used in the freezer. Leave some head room.
Red meat and pork can remain in the refrigerator up to 5 days and can be frozen for 4-12 months. Leftover cooked meat will last 3-4 days in the refrigerator and 2-6 months in the freezer. Ground meats (beef, veal, pork, or poultry) can be refrigerated for 1-2 days and frozen for 3-4 months. Lunchmeats and hot dogs will last two weeks in the refrigerator unopened and should be eaten within 3-5 days of opening (hot dogs can go a couple of days longer). In the freezer they’ll last 1-2 months. Bacon is safe to eat for up to a week in the fridge—but raw sausage should be eaten within two days. Both can be frozen for a month, and some sausage will freeze for twice as long. Eggs can be refrigerated for up to a month raw but no more than a week hard-boiled
And with the use of a zip-seal bag and a permanent marker, you can avoid wasting your good food. Before you put meat in the freezer, you should always write the date on it -- that way you don't have to question how long it's been frozen. And, believe it or not, some meats can last in the freezer for up to one year. 1  Cooked poultry -- 4 months. 2  Uncooked poultry parts -- 9 months. How many times have you thrown out a frozen piece of meat because, well, you're not sure how long it's been in there -- or how long the freezer can keep things fresh? You might be surprised to find that frozen meat can last in the freezer for a long amount of time.
Frozen Pork Storage. Raw pork chops can be safely frozen for up to six months. Raw pork roasts can stay in the freezer for as long as one year. Cooked pork products can be frozen for up to four months. After this time, the meat might be dry and it will have less flavor, although it will still be safe to eat. Wrap Pork for the Freezer. If the pork is cooked, pack it in a rigid container, like a plastic storage container with a tight lid meant to be used in the freezer. Leave some head room.
I keep Mammoth in my freezer for about 6 months tops, then I chuck it. Oops, that was years ago when I was in the Ice Age. According to every source I have seen: chicken, beef, pork etc., if frozen and sealed in a regular refrigerator freezer, should last about 6 months. Once it is frozen as long as it stays frozen you'll be fine. The only thing that you might end up with is a little freezer burn which isn't a problem. I would feel comfortable eating frozen meat that has been in the freezer for a year or more.