Directions: Preheat your oven to 350. In your mixer, cream together the butter with the white and brown sugar. Slowly add one egg at a time to this mixture, followed by the vanilla and the almond extract. In a large separate bowl, whisk together all the dry ingredients: the flour, vanilla pudding, baking soda, and salt.
How to Cook Lobster – Boiling. Put 6 inches of water in a 12-14 quart pot. When cooking lobster, it is important to bring water to a full boil. Add 1/4 cup of salt and drop lobster in head-first. Bring water to a boil again, continue cooking lobster and then reduce heat to medium. Cooking lobster by size: 1  1 lb. lobster-cook lobster for 12 minutes. 
Place ramekins on a baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes, or until golden-brown on the edges and still a little golden and soft in the middle. Remove from oven and let cool for at least 5 minutes before serving, with or without a scoop of ice cream on top. Add the vanilla extract and egg, and beat for 1 minute. Add half the flour mixture and mix on low speed just until dry ingredients are fully incorporated. Repeat with the remaining flour mixture. Using a wooden spoon, mix chocolate chips into batter.
Preheat the oven to 375°F. In a small bowl, whisk together the flour, salt, and baking soda. In a stand mixer or a large bowl with a handheld electric mixer, beat the butter until creamy, about 1 minute. Add the vanilla extract and egg, and beat for 1 minute. Add half the flour mixture and mix on low speed just until dry ingredients are fully incorporated. Repeat with the remaining flour mixture. Using a wooden spoon, mix chocolate chips into batter.
1 Bake the Pizookie at 375 degrees F for 10 -12 minutes or until lightly golden brown around the edges but a bit under baked in the center. 2  Top with vanilla icecream and a nice drizzle of melted chocolate and enjoy! 
It was a long time before I realized that pizookie was a hybrid term for pizza-cookie. The zoooo-kie part was too distracting to actually sit down and think through the semantics. 1. Preheat oven to 475°F. Indeed, this seems hot for a cookie-related endeavor, but remember that BJ's is a pizza joint so these puppies usually bake in a cranked-up pizza oven. 2. Squeeze out all the goodness.
4. Immediately turn the stove down to simmer and turn the timer on. The rule is simple: you can tell its done cooking if all the water is absorbed (assuming you have put in the correct proportions of rice and water.). White rice usually takes about 15 to 20 minutes to cook. Check the rice about 4 minutes before the timer is due to go off. When you take the cover off, the top of the rice may look like it is totally cooked
A 1/2 pound of Chocolate Chip, White Chocolate Macadamia Nut, or Peanut Butter Chocolate cookie dough, slightly baked in a 6-inch pizza pan then topped with 3 scoops of vanilla bean ice cream. This baby serves 2-4. 1. Preheat oven to 475°F. Indeed, this seems hot for a cookie-related endeavor, but remember that BJ's is a pizza joint so these puppies usually bake in a cranked-up pizza oven. 2. Squeeze out all the goodness.
This factored in enough time for the cookie dough in six-inch pans (the same ones were used for the pizza) to bake just long enough for the outer ring to crispify while the central nucleus remained fluffy and doughy, arguably still in the salmonella-risk zone. Chocolate chunk ($5.95) is the classic pizookie flavor. As long as every table ordered at least one of those, you could start branching out into the crazies ($5.50). The original pizza cookie from Oregano's in Arizona. Photograph by Robyn Lee. 1. Preheat oven to 475°F. Indeed, this seems hot for a cookie-related endeavor, but remember that BJ's is a pizza joint so these puppies usually bake in a cranked-up pizza oven. 2. Squeeze out all the goodness.
Space the chocolate chips apart, using as many chocolate chips as you’d like, I think less is more with this amazing recipe. Bake between 10 – 15 minutes depending on how cooked you prefer your cookie. We were able to cook three mini skillets at once. Preheat your oven to 350. In your mixer, cream together the butter with the white and brown sugar. Slowly add one egg at a time to this mixture, followed by the vanilla and the almond extract.