Carotid artery disease is a serious condition that occurs when the blood vessels in the neck that carry oxygen-rich blood to the brain (carotid arteries) become narrowed a fatty, waxy substance called plaque. Carotid artery disease is one of the primary causes of a stroke. These blockages caused by carotid artery disease can restrict blood flow to brain tissue or promote a blood clot that cuts off blood flow entirely, causing an ischemic stroke ,the most common type of stroke. Identifying and treating carotid artery disease is critical in reducing the risk of a first or recurrent
1 Stroke: A sudden blood clot in the carotid artery can interrupt blood flow to the brain, causing a stroke. 2  Fragments of cholesterol plaque in the carotid artery may also travel into the brain to cause a stroke. 1 Temporal arteritis: An autoimmune condition in which branches of the carotid artery become inflamed, known as vasculitis. 2  Fever, a severe headache on one side of the head, and jaw pain when chewing can be symptoms.
The main potential complication of CAD is a stroke. A stroke occurs when the blood flow to the brain is interrupted. This can lead to loss of brain function or even death. There are several ways that CAD can cause a stroke: 1  narrowed carotid arteries may not supply enough blood to the brain. 2  a piece of plaque can break off and lodge in one of the smaller arteries of the brain, blocking blood flow. 3  blood clots can form in the carotid artery, blocking blood flow. 
Like the arteries that supply blood to the heart -- the coronary arteries -- the carotid arteries can also develop atherosclerosis or “hardening of the arteries” on the inside of the vessels. Over time, the buildup of fatty substances and cholesterol narrows the carotid arteries. Strokes can occur as a result of other conditions besides carotid artery disease. For example, sudden bleeding in the brain, called intracerebral hemorrhage, can cause a stroke. Other possible causes include: 1  Sudden bleeding in the spinal fluid space -- subarachnoid hemorrhage. 2  Atrial fibrillation.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Pain in Carotids: Inflammation in the carotid arteries may cause pain. More importantly, it is critical that you see a vascular surgeon to have your carotid arteries evaluated. You will need a carotid duplex to assess the amount of stenosis in the arteries, if any. 
1 Carotid artery vasculitis: Inflammation of the carotid artery, due to an autoimmune condition or an infection. 2  Stroke: A sudden blood clot in the carotid artery can interrupt blood flow to the brain, causing a stroke. 3  Fragments of cholesterol plaque in the carotid artery may also travel into the brain to cause a stroke. 1 Temporal arteritis: An autoimmune condition in which branches of the carotid artery become inflamed, known as vasculitis. 2  Fever, a severe headache on one side of the head, and jaw pain when chewing can be symptoms.
The carotid arteries are two large blood vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the large, front part of the brain. This is where thinking, speech, personality, and sensory and motor functions reside. You can feel your pulse in the carotid arteries on each side of your neck, right below the angle of the jaw line. Strokes can occur as a result of other conditions besides carotid artery disease. For example, sudden bleeding in the brain, called intracerebral hemorrhage, can cause a stroke. Other possible causes include: 1  Sudden bleeding in the spinal fluid space -- subarachnoid hemorrhage. 2  Atrial fibrillation.
The carotid arteries are major blood vessels in the neck that supply blood to the brain, neck, and face. There are two carotid arteries, one on the right and one on the left. In the neck, each carotid artery branches into two divisions: 1  The internal carotid artery supplies blood to the brain. 1 Temporal arteritis: An autoimmune condition in which branches of the carotid artery become inflamed, known as vasculitis. 2  Fever, a severe headache on one side of the head, and jaw pain when chewing can be symptoms.
Carotid artery disease is serious because it can cause a stroke, also called a “brain attack.” A stroke occurs if blood flow to your brain is cut off. If blood flow is cut off for more than a few minutes, the cells in your brain start to die. This impairs the parts of the body that the brain cells control. Carotid (ka-ROT-id) artery disease is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up inside the carotid arteries. You have two common carotid arteries, one on each side of your neck. They each divide into internal and external