Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!)
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time. An egg that is at room temperature at the start of the cooking process will require about 1 minute less cooking time than eggs taken directly from the refrigerator. 4. Technique for hard-cooking (boiled) eggs: Choose the right size pot to cook your eggs in: The eggs must not be stacked but be in one (1) layer only.
Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. Once cooked, plunge the hard-boiled egg into plenty of cold water for one minute.
1 Remove the boiled eggs from the water and transfer them to a bowl of cold water for 15 minutes to stop the cooking process. 2  Then either peel and serve or refrigerate. 1 Place the eggs in a heavy-bottomed saucepan and cover them with cold water. 2  Make sure the tops of the eggs are covered by at least an inch of water. 3  How much water will depend on the size of the pot, but in general, a bigger pot is better. 4  Crowding the eggs risks cracking them. 5  Bring the water to a full boil, uncovered.
Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool
Different stovetops will produce more heat (and thus boil water faster) than others, so how long you need to cook your eggs might vary. Also, not all pots are the same size or hold the same amount of water. Thus, your cooking time could end up being more than 15 minutes, or it could be less. 1 Place the eggs in a heavy-bottomed saucepan and cover them with cold water. 2  Make sure the tops of the eggs are covered by at least an inch of water. 3  How much water will depend on the size of the pot, but in general, a bigger pot is better. 4  Crowding the eggs risks cracking them. 5  Bring the water to a full boil, uncovered.
Directions. Place eggs in a large saucepan. Cover them with cool water by 1 inch. Slowly bring water to a boil over medium heat; when the water has reached a boil, cover and remove from heat. Let sit 12 minutes. Transfer eggs to a colander; place under cool running water to stop the cooking. Eggs can be peeled and served immediately. Get a perfect hard-boiled egg every time with these simple tips on how to hard-boil an egg. Boiled eggs are a convenient and affordable source of protein. With hard-boiled eggs on hand, you have the components of a satisfying breakfast, lunch, snack, appetizer, or dinner.
Hard-cooked (boiled) eggs: A hard-cooked egg has both a firm white and yolk. Hard-cooked eggs should never be boiled-always simmer them in water. If cooked too long, the protein toughens (becomes rubbery) and a greenish or purplish ring forms around the yolk. An egg that is at room temperature at the start of the cooking process will require about 1 minute less cooking time than eggs taken directly from the refrigerator. 4. Technique for hard-cooking (boiled) eggs: Choose the right size pot to cook your eggs in: The eggs must not be stacked but be in one (1) layer only.