6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. 7. Turn the eggs at least three times daily.
Since duck eggs are larger than chicken eggs, setting trays must be designed to accommodate their larger size. Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. 
Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime. In 24 to 28 days for wild mallard ducks (28 to 32 days for muscovies), all the eggs in the nest will hatch within a twenty-four to 48 hour period.
Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. 
Best Answer: From Ducks Unlimited, Canada: I found a nest in my yard with mallard duck eggs. How long will it take the eggs to hatch? On average, a mallard hen (female) lays one egg per day for about nine days. She will incubate the eggs for about 26-28 days before they hatch. Once hatched, it will be about 50 days before the ducklings can fly.
Muscovy will lay up to 180 eggs a year and hatch about four sets of ducklings if they get lots of high protein feed. Muscovy ducks are great mothers and do a good job raising their young. Muscovy take longer to hatch than other poultry... an egg takes 33 to 35 days to hatch. A chicken, for example, hatches in 21 days. Muscovy meat is one of the healthiest meats on the market today, being 98% or greater fat free. Since Muscovy are genetically disimilar to other domestic waterfowl, many folks believe that they're more of a goose than a duck. For instance, they eat grass, as do geese, have a similarly long egg incubation period of 35 days (compared with 28 days for ducks), and they don't quack.
Get ready for hatching. The eggs should begin to hatch at day 28. After hatching the chicks will need to dry off at least 75% of the way in the incubator before you move them to the brooder. Your brooder should be an area large enough to accommodate your ducklings, giving them at least 6 sq. in. per duckling. 
Report Abuse. Duck eggs hatch in a period of 28-33 days after they are laid, if they are fertile. The ducklings will hatch over a period of several hours, maybe even over a day or so. If there is no Jack in Jill's life, the eggs are not fertile and will never hatch
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Duck eggs need to be incubated for 28 days. That is 28 days from the time she starts sitting on them. It may take her a couple of weeks to lay enough eggs for her to start sitting. When she feels that her clutch (group of eggs) is the right size, she will start sitting. Wait for 28 days. Duck eggs hatch in a period of 28-33 days after they are laid, if they are fertile. The ducklings will hatch over a period of several hours, maybe even over a day or so.
The incubation period varies by species and generally takes about a month. When the ducklings begin to crack through their shells at the end of the incubation period, they should all hatch within 24 to 48 hours. Some eggs may fail to hatch. In an incubator, a duck egg loses 14 percent of its weight from water loss. The air cell in the egg enlarges to take up a third of the shell. The egg's weight and the size of its air cell are the main ways to tell if the egg is near the end of its incubation period.