Many farmers keep beehives on their farms to ensure the pollination of their crops because there are very few honey bees left in the wild. Of course, farmers also keep bees to produce beeswax and honey! Spiders, ladybugs, wasps, dragonflies, and praying mantises are also helpful because they eat harmful insects. The corn earworm is a harmful insect to the farmer's crop. Other insects such as corn rootworms, aphids, grasshoppers, cutworms, and spider mites can damage crops and reduce the farmer's yield. Insects may eat grains, roots or leaves and weaken plants. Insects can also land on livestock and bite them.
A bumble bee is a bee -- just a different sort of bee. Bumble bees do collect nectar and make honey, but not in large enough quantities to make it worth harvesting. However … bumble bees are excellent Pollinators, so bumble Bees can be worth keeping. Farmers will pay you money to lend them your hives for the season so that the bumble bees pollinate their crops. the honey bee makes honey the bumble bee does not. 13 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  A Biological Overview of the Life Cycle of a Bumble Bee Bees of all kinds have a fascinating and complex life cycle. 2  The life cycle of the bumble bee is typical of the hive-based reproductive cycle of these species.
They are neither helpful or harmful. Carpenter bees do not harm humans as they have no stings. They eat and bore holes into wood which may be a problem not any help. To most people, a bee isn't very harmful, but they have a slightly painful sting, which might cause a bump or minor swelling. However, to some peopl … e, a bee sting can be very harmful, as some people have an allergy to bee stings. + 4 others found this useful. Shaina Arnoux.
It depends on who you are. To most people, a bee isn't very harmful, but they have a slightly painful sting, which might cause a bump or minor swelling. However, to some peopl … e, a bee sting can be very harmful, as some people have an allergy to bee stings. + 4 others found this useful. Shaina Arnoux.
Most carpenter bees are large and robust, usually one inch long. They have some yellow hair, but not on the abdomen like bumblebees. Bees are helpful to DeKalb County farmers and gardeners. They pollinate many different kinds of crops and home gardens, resulting in a good harvest. However, some types of bees, especially the carpenter bee, can be helpful and also cause damage to wooden structures. They resemble bumblebees, but their abdomens are blue-black, shiny and smooth while the bumblebees are yellow and black or black with fine hair
Best Answer: honey bees are helpful in a way that they provide almost all the consumer goods that we eat. people can make or carry out pollenation artificially but there are more than just that the bees do. but if the honey bees are keep on disappearing like this then the farmgoods and all the organic goods will be under the effect. and other than stinging honey bees are not harmful at all... honey bees are not the only bees that sting so i wouldnt make such a fuss about it...
USEFUL INSECTS OR PRODUCTIVE INSECTS • Insects can be classified into 2 types based on the economic importance • Useful / beneficial / productive insects. • This type includes silkworm, honeybee and lac insect. • Harmful insects: Housefly, Mosquito, bedbug and Head louse. 
There are thousands of insects living on a farm. They can be both helpful and harmful to the farm and the farmer. The honey bee is a helpful insect because it pollinates the farmer's crops while gathering its food. Pollination allows the plant to create its seeds, such as grains of wheat or kernels of corn. The corn earworm is a harmful insect to the farmer's crop. Other insects such as corn rootworms, aphids, grasshoppers, cutworms, and spider mites can damage crops and reduce the farmer's yield. Insects may eat grains, roots or leaves and weaken plants. Insects can also land on livestock and bite them.