Given below are some of the common medical conditions that affect the digestive system. There are many other diseases and disorders that can affect the digestive system. If you go through the list of common infectious diseases, you can come across numerous conditions related to this system. They include cholera, typhoid fever, staphylococcal food poisoning, bacillary dysentery, and salmonellosis.
Many symptoms can signal problems with the GI tract, including: abdominal pain, blood in the stool, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, heartburn, incontinence, nausea and vomiting and difficulty swallowing, according to the NIH. Among the most widely known diseases of the digestive system is colon cancer.
Here is a list of diseases of the digestive system. Advertisement. The human digestive system consists of esophagus, stomach, liver, pancreas, large intestine, small intestine, bowel, and colon. Disorders or malfunctioning in any of these organs can lead to diseases and disorders. Stomach pain, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, constipation, etc., are the common symptoms of diseases related to the digestive system. Esophagus. The esophagus is a tube like organ that extends from the back of the throat to the stomach.
some diseases associated withe the digestive system are: Colon and Rectal CancerColon and Rectal cancer is also referred to as colorectal cancer. This type of cancer is a malignant cell that is found in the colon or rectum region of the body.
1 Celiac disease symptoms include diarrhea, pain, bloating, pain and anemia. 2  Common diseases of the digestive system include Crohn's disease, which is characterized by inflammation of the walls of the digestive tract.
In this article. These are common terms and definitions associated with the gastrointestinal system and digestive problems or diseases: Amylase: Enzyme produced in the pancreas and salivary glands that helps in the digestion of starches from the diet.
Some examples include duodenal ulcer, esophageal achalasia, fecal incontinence, Whipple disease and dysentery. The digestive system involves the tube from the mouth to the rectum (esophagus, stomach, intestines) as well as various organs the are connected to this tube such as the liver and pancreas. ...