Devyn /de-vyn/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used as boys' name Devyn) is of Old English origin, and Devyn means poet. Devyn is a version of Devin (Irish, Gaelic): also an alternative spelling for Devon. Daven is a popular surname. Kreatif forms: Davyn, Deovyn, Dovyn. Charted below is the baby name popularity of Devyn for girls. Devyn entered the list in 1991 and reached its peak rank of #699 in the U.S. in the year 2000, but is not ranked at the moment. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). Devon, Devin and Devan are the popular variation forms of Devyn.
Meaning of Devyn. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Devyn means-Servant.. Other origins for the name Devyn include-Gaelic, English, Celtic, English, French, Irish, English.The name Devyn is most often used as a boy name or male name. Gaelic Name Meaning-Servant. Origin-Gaelic
The name Devyn is of English origin, and it means Divine . It's a name commonly given to girls. 
American Meaning: The name Devyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Devyn is: Servant. Celtic Meaning: The name Devyn is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Devyn is: Poet. Irish Meaning: The name Devyn is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Devyn is: Poet. In English the meaning of the name Devyn is: English county name Devon. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Devyn is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Devyn is: From Devon.
Devyn /de-vyn/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used as girls' name Devyn) is of Irish, Gaelic and English origin, and the name Devyn means bard, poet. Devyn is a version of Devin (Irish, Gaelic): May also possibly mean young deer. Devyn is also a form of Devon (English). Kreatif forms: Divyn, Dovyn. Devyn is an equivalently uncommon last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Devyn for boys. Devyn entered the list in 1993 and reached its highest position of #585 in the U.S. in the year 1999, but is not found in the list currently.
Meanings and history of the name Devyn: | Edit. Devyn is of Irish, Gaelic and English origin meaning bard or poet. Also a place name for an English countryside known for its beauty. 
The name Devyn is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Devyn is: English county name Devon. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Devyn is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Devyn is: From Devon.
English name. In English, the name Devyn means-divine. Other origins for the name Devyn include-English, Celtic, French, Gaelic, Irish.The name Devyn is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-divine. Origin-England. 