1 Movable: A movable pulley has an axle in a movable block. 2  A single movable pulley is supported by two parts of the same rope and has a mechanical advantage of two. 3  Compound: A combination of fixed and a movable pulleys forms a block and tackle. Thus, the mechanical advantage is three. By adding a pulley to the fixed block of a gun tackle the direction of the pulling force is reversed though the mechanical advantage remains the same, Diagram 3a. This is an example of the Luff tackle.
Mechanical advantage is a measure of the force amplification achieved by using a tool, mechanical device or machine system. Ideally, the device preserves the input power and simply trades off forces against movement to obtain a desired amplification in the output force. The model for this is the law of the lever. The ideal mechanical advantage (IMA), or theoretical mechanical advantage, is the mechanical advantage of a device with the assumption that its components do not flex, there is no friction, and there is no wear.
This is a fixed pulley and will not add any mechanical advantage, but will only redirect the force applied to the system. If we add another pulley to the load we will then have added mechanical advantage. When calculating the advantage added, you must observe the movable pulleys and their relationship to the load. If the pulley is fixed to the ceiling and the rope passes over it, then the. ideal MA is 1, but there's some friction loss in it. If one end of the rope is fixed to the ceiling and the load hangs from the pulley, then the ideal MA is 2.
1 Mechanical advantage is gained by combining a fixed pulley with a movable pulley or another fixed pulley of a different diameter. 2  Movable: A movable pulley has an axle in a movable block. 3  A single movable pulley is supported by two parts of the same rope and has a mechanical advantage of two. Thus, the mechanical advantage is three. By adding a pulley to the fixed block of a gun tackle the direction of the pulling force is reversed though the mechanical advantage remains the same, Diagram 3a. This is an example of the Luff tackle.
A fixed pulley has a mechanical advantage of one, however, it is able to change the direction of force on an object. A movable pulley has a mechanical advantage of two and is connected to the object being moved. A block and tackle pulley provides a mechanical advantage of three and is made up of fixed and movable pulleys. Calculating the mechanical advantage of a pulley: With a pulley, the user pulls one end of the rope and the other end of the rope pulls up on the object you want to move. The force produced by the user of the pulley is called the input force and the force pulling up on the object is called the output force.
A simple way to determine the ideal mechanical advantage to a pulley system is to count the number of lengths of rope between pulleys that support the load. In Figure 1(a), only one segment of rope supports the load. Th erefore, the mechanical advantage is 1. In this Investigation, you will be testing factors that might infl uence the actual mechanical advantage of pulley systems. A single fi xed pulley, like the one in Figure 1(a), has an ideal mechanical advantage of 1 since the eff ort force (120 N) is equal to the load force (120 N).
The rope is threaded through the pulleys to provide mechanical advantage that amplifies that force applied to the rope. In order to determine the mechanical advantage of a block and tackle system consider the simple case of a gun tackle, which has a single mounted, or fixed, pulley and a single movable pulley. The ideal mechanical advantage (IMA), or theoretical mechanical advantage, is the mechanical advantage of a device with the assumption that its components do not flex, there is no friction, and there is no wear.
If the output force is bigger than the input force, a machine has a mechanical advantage greater than one. If a machine increases an input force of 10 pounds to an output force of 100 pounds, the machine has a mechanical advantage (MA) of 10. In machines that increase distance instead of force, the MA is the ratio of the output distance and input distance.