The average life expectancy of people with kidney failure on dialysis. Generally, if patients can be provided sufficient dialysis every time and don’t miss any dialysis, they can live with dialysis for approximately 5 years. This value changes for individuals in different environment and different healthy conditions.
Time Frame. Those undergoing kidney dialysis treatment possess a very general, average life expectancy of four years. But many scenarios come into play with some patients enjoying a bountiful life for as long as 25 years. We do not yet know how long patients on dialysis will live, says the National Kidney Foundation. We think that some dialysis patients may live as long as people without kidney failure..
Two things to know-you can live a long time on dialysis; do not max out your credit cards. Remember when looking at statistics that averages are made of extremes. If five patients live two years and one patient lives twenty years, the average life span would be five years. 
The life expectancy of a person receiving a dialysis treatment is anywhere between 5 to 7 years; however cases have emerged where a person lives a long lifetime while receiving dialysis treatment. Someone with a kidney disorder should highly consider being placed on a list for a transplant. When a person's kidneys stop working on their own, hemodialysis may be required. How long can someone live on dialysis? Although this is a scary time in a person's life, it is still possible to live a long and fulfilling life before a kidney transplant is needed.
How long you can live on dialysis, and how well you do, will depend on a number of things, including how healthy you are, your attitude, your quality of healthcare and how much you take an active role in your care. Sign up for no-cost Kidney Smart® education class to learn more about kidney disease. 
The data show that 70- to 74-year-olds on dialysis can expect to live 3.6 years on average, compared with 12.2 years for all Americans of that age. For 75- to 79-year-olds, the figures dropped to 3.1 years versus 9.2 years. 
Age. Younger people with diabetes and ESRD on dialysis can live longer than older patients. For example, 88 percent of those under the age of 20 will live through five years of dialysis. Just 21 percent of dialysis patients between 65 and 74 years of age will survive through five years. Treatments. Some statistics show that the survival rate of diabetes on dialysis is 71 percent through one year, 29 percent through five years and 11 percent after 10 years. How long can people on dialysis with ESRD and diabetes live is affected by the following factors. Other health issues.
And usually the longer time that patients on dialysis, the more likely they die from these problems. Therefore, how long can a person live on dialysis becomes a hot topic among kidney failure patients. Actually, how long can a person live on dialysis depends on many factors. In clinic, life span of dialysis patients varies greatly from case to case. And it may range from several days to decades. 