Short for Cyan-Magenta-Yellow-Black, and pronounced as separate letters. CMYK is a color model in which all colors are described as a mixture of these four process colors. CMYK is the standard color model used in offset printing for full-color documents. Because such printing uses inks of these four basic colors, it is often called four-color printing
CMYK is a subtractive color model that is used in color printing, and it refers to cyan, magenta, yellow, and black for the inks used in color printing. The “K” in CMYK is understood to be the key since in four-color printing cyan, magenta, and yellow printing plates are aligned with the black plate which is the key. In other words the other colors are setup in relation to the black which is thus the key to the process. The fact that it is subtractive means that in the CMYK process the color results are achieved by masking colors on a lighter background. Often this background is white and the color may be masked either partially or completely, depending on the color desired. CMYK is often used for printing in four color process.
CMYK refers to the primary colors of pigment: Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and Black. These are the inks used on the press in 4-color process printing, commonly referred to as full color printing or four color printing. The combination of RGB light creates white, while the combination of CMYK inks creates black. About RGB-CMYK. 1  Scanners, digital cameras and computer monitors use red, green and blue (RGB) light to display color. 2  Commercial printing presses print with cyan, magenta, yellow and black (CMYK) ink, called process printing, instead of RGB light, and therefore produce a different range of color.
The K in CMYK stands for key because in four-color printing, cyan, magenta, and yellow printing plates are carefully keyed, or aligned, with the key of the black key plate. Some sources suggest that the K in CMYK comes from the last letter in blac k  and was chosen because B already means blue. The CMYK model works by partially or entirely masking colors on a lighter, usually white, background. The ink reduces the light that would otherwise be reflected. Such a model is called subtractive because inks subtract brightness from white.
RGB colors are additive. While in return, subtract cyan – magenta – yellow – black and you will get the RGB colors. CMYK colors are subtractive for this very reason that it starts with all colors and when colors are subtracted the outcome is white (see below color swatch, the inside color is black). On the other end, computer monitors give off colored light known as RGB (CMYK is colored ink). Computer monitors have a larger color gamut than printing, which is why a computer can display a million more colors than what can be achieved with printing.
In additive color models such as RGB, white is the additive combination of all primary colored lights, while black is the absence of light. In the CMYK model, it is the opposite: white is the natural color of the paper or other background, while black results from a full combination of colored inks. The CMYK model works by partially or entirely masking colors on a lighter, usually white, background. The ink reduces the light that would otherwise be reflected. Such a model is called subtractive because inks subtract brightness from white.
Answer by Eric Layne. Confidence votes 12. CMY-KeyThe black plate is called the key plate because in modern four-color printing (also called process printing) the cyan, magenta and yellow colors are keyed, or aligned, with the black key plate. When printing is done using metal plates, the black plate is called the Key plate. 
The CMYK color model (process color, four color) is a subtractive color model, used in color printing, and is also used to describe the printing process itself. The CMYK model works by partially or entirely masking colors on a lighter, usually white, background. The ink reduces the light that would otherwise be reflected. Such a model is called subtractive because inks subtract brightness from white.
CMYK (Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, Key or blacK) is subtractive because the paper where its printed on is white and the ink subtracts from the brightness of the white paper. CMYK also uses secondary colors that are much lighter than those used in RGB because to reproduce the darker colors, you would only need to add more ink. 
CMYK refers to the four inks used in some color printing: cyan, magenta, yellow, and key (black). Though it varies by print house, press operator, press manufacturer, and press run, ink is typically applied in the order of the abbreviation. The CMYK model works by partially or entirely masking colors on a lighter, usually white, background. The ink reduces the light that would otherwise be reflected. Such a model is called subtractive because inks subtract brightness from white.