Political economy is a study of philosophy and ideology that studies the evolution of political and economic ideas. Political economy is a mixture of politics, economics, sociology, philosophy, and history, which all bring together evidence to the study of how humans exist within societies. Political economists study political ideology, economic structure, human interaction, human nature, and theories in philosophical thought. Political economy is the study of the relationships between individuals and society, and more specifically, the relationships between citizens and states.
Political economy originated in moral philosophy. It was developed in the 18th century as the study of the economies of states, or polities, hence the term political economy. In the late 19th century, the term economics came to replace political economy, coinciding with the publication of an influential textbook by Alfred Marshall in 1890. In that way, political economy expanded the emphasis of economics, which comes from the Greek oikos (meaning home) and nomos (meaning law or order). Thus, political economy was meant to express the laws of production of wealth at the state level, just as economics was the ordering of the home.
BREAKING DOWN 'Political Economy'. Because various individuals and groups have different interests in how a country or economy is to develop, political economy as a discipline is a complex field, covering a broad array of potentially competing interests. Political economy is the interplay between economics, law and politics, and how institutions develop in different social and economic systems, such as capitalism, socialism and communism.
In order to allocate these resources, politics are used within a state to provide for the people. Political economy is the study of the relationships between individuals and society, and more specifically, the relationships between citizens and states.
The Political Economy of Discretionary Spending: Evidence from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. By: Christopher Boone, Arindrajit Dube and Ethan Kaplan. “Parties did not appear to act in their own collective interest by targeting marginal districts. 
DEFINITION of 'Political Economy'. The study and use of how economic theory and methods influences political ideology. Political economy is the interplay between economics, law and politics, and how institutions develop in different social and economic systems, such as capitalism, socialism and communism. Political economy analyzes how public policy is created and implemented
Political economy was a term used for studying production and trade, and their relations with law, custom, and government, as well as with the distribution of national income and wealth. In that way, political economy expanded the emphasis of economics, which comes from the Greek oikos (meaning home) and nomos (meaning law or order). Thus, political economy was meant to express the laws of production of wealth at the state level, just as economics was the ordering of the home.
The study of Political Economy is the study of how individuals relate to the state, and in turn, how the states in the world relate to each other. In order to allocate these resources, politics are used within a state to provide for the people. Political economy is the study of the relationships between individuals and society, and more specifically, the relationships between citizens and states.
Political economy is a study of philosophy and ideology that studies the evolution of political and economic ideas. Political economy profits from the interdisciplinary application of approaches and concepts that originated in the study of politics, economics, sociology, philosophy, and history. In order to allocate these resources, politics are used within a state to provide for the people. Political economy is the study of the relationships between individuals and society, and more specifically, the relationships between citizens and states.