Buy whole salmon fillets when preparing baked salmon. The flesh can range in color from a pale pink to a deep red, depending on the salmon species available. A salmon fillet is cut in half lengthwise down the middle of the fish. The pink flesh is exposed on one side, and the skin (typically scaled) on the opposite side. Cook the salmon fillet in a covered, oven-proof baking dish. Keep the fish covered during the process, as it helps the fish retain its moisture and speeds up the cooking time.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl. 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. Before seasoning your salmon, figure out the estimated cooking time. For fillets and steaks, use a ruler to measure the thickness. For a whole dressed fish (ready-to-cook salmon with the organs, scales, gills, and fins removed), weigh the fish instead.
What To Do: 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat a baking sheet with cooking spray. 2  In a medium bowl, combine all ingredients except salmon; mix well and set aside. 3  Cut a slit lengthwise 3/4 of way through each salmon fillet. 4  Bake 15 to 20 minutes, or until fish flakes easily. 1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat a baking sheet with cooking spray. 2  In a medium bowl, combine all ingredients except salmon; mix well and set aside. 3  Cut a slit lengthwise 3/4 of way through each salmon fillet. 4  Evenly divide stuffing into each slit and place on prepared baking sheet.
1 Place salmon on a lightly oiled sheet pan or in a shallow baking dish, folding under thin outer edges of fillets for even cooking. 2  Top salmon with chopped tomatoes and green onions, and season with salt and pepper. 3  Cook salmon in the preheated oven, uncovered, for approximately 20 minutes. 
1 In a medium bowl, combine all ingredients except salmon; mix well and set aside. 2  Cut a slit lengthwise 3/4 of way through each salmon fillet. 3  Evenly divide stuffing into each slit and place on prepared baking sheet. 4  Bake 15 to 20 minutes, or until fish flakes easily. 1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat a baking sheet with cooking spray. 2  In a medium bowl, combine all ingredients except salmon; mix well and set aside. 3  Cut a slit lengthwise 3/4 of way through each salmon fillet. 4
Cut larger pieces of salmon into serving-size pieces. Before seasoning your salmon, figure out the estimated cooking time. For fillets and steaks, use a ruler to measure the thickness. For a whole dressed fish (ready-to-cook salmon with the organs, scales, gills, and fins removed), weigh the fish instead.
1 Place salmon skin-side down on foil. 2  Spread a thin layer of mustard on the top of each fillet, and season with salt and pepper. 3  Top with bread crumbs, then drizzle with melted butter. 4  Bake in a preheated oven for 15 minutes, or until salmon flakes easily with a fork. 1 Line a shallow baking pan with aluminum foil. 2  Place salmon skin-side down on foil. 3  Spread a thin layer of mustard on the top of each fillet, and season with salt and pepper. 4
Report Abuse. I bake salmon all the time. I line my pan with aluminum foil, place the salmon fillet in the pan, put on my favorite seasonings/toppings, seal it up, and bake it in a preheated 400º oven. If the topping is thick, like a mayonnaise topping with onion powder and dill sprinkled over it, my 8 oz piece of salmon takes about 30 minutes to cook. 