Diffusion of molecules through a semipermeable membrane from a place of higher concentration to a place of lower concentration until the concentration on both sides is equal. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural processes. Hypernyms (osmosis is a kind of...): 1. diffusion of molecules through a semipermeable membrane from a place of higher concentration to a place of lower concentration until the concentration on both sides is equal. Familiarity information: OSMOSIS used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. • OSMOSIS (noun).
Osmosis is the movement of water through a membrane. A solvent, which is often water, from a higher water concentration to a lower water concentration across a selectively-pe … rmeable membrane. =) [my answer is better. Confidence votes 87. It means the diffusion of fluids through a membrane. Oxygen is diffused into your blood through the alveoli walls by osmosis. The difference between diffusion generally and osmosis is the permeable membrane. osmosis is a type of diffusion.
Medical Definition of OSMOSIS. : movement of a solvent through a semipermeable membrane (as of a living cell) into a solution of higher solute concentration that tends to equalize the concentrations of solute on the two sides of the membrane. Full Definition of OSMOSIS. 1. : movement of a solvent (as water) through a semipermeable membrane (as of a living cell) into a solution of higher solute concentration that tends to equalize the concentrations of solute on the two sides of the membrane. 2. See osmosis defined for English-language learners.
The noun OSMOSIS has 1 sense: 1. diffusion of molecules through a semipermeable membrane from a place of higher concentration to a place of lower concentration until the concentration on both sides is equal. Familiarity information: OSMOSIS used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. • OSMOSIS (noun).
Formally, reverse osmosis is the process of forcing a solvent from a region of high solute concentration through a semipermeable membrane to a region of low solute concentration by applying a pressure in excess of the osmotic pressure. 
Osmosis is the spontaneous net movement of solvent molecules through a semi-permeable membrane into a region of higher solute concentration, in the direction that tends to equalize the solute concentrations on the two sides. When a cell is submerged in water, the water molecules pass through the cell membrane from an area of low solute concentration to high solute concentration. For example, if the cell is submerged in saltwater, water molecules move out of the cell.
Osmosis. Osmosis is the spontaneous net movement of solvent molecules through a partially permeable membrane into a region of higher solute concentration, in the direction that tends to equalize the solute concentrations on the two sides. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: osmosis (noun). (biology, chemistry) diffusion of molecules through a semipermeable membrane from a place of higher concentration to a place of lower concentration until the concentration on both sides is equal.
Osmosis is the movement of a solvent across a semipermeable membrane toward a higher concentration of solute. In biological systems, the solvent is typically water, but osmosis can occur in other liquids, supercritical liquids, and even gases. When a cell is submerged in water, the water molecules pass through the cell membrane from an area of low solute concentration to high solute concentration. For example, if the cell is submerged in saltwater, water molecules move out of the cell.