Country. A staunch adherent of old-style honky tonk and Bakersfield country, Dale Watson has positioned himself as a tattooed, stubbornly independent outsider only interested in recording authentic country music. The Truckin' Sessions, Vol. 2 appeared in 2009 from Hyena Records; a box set, 2014's The Truckin' Sessions Trilogy, featured the first two Truckin' albums along with a third disc, which received a stand-alone release as The Truckin' Sessions, Vol. 3 in 2015.
Dale Watson (born October 7, 1962 in Birmingham, Alabama) is an American country / Texas Country singer, guitarist, songwriter, and self-published author based in Austin, Texas. The singer is also featured in the Zalman King documentary Crazy Again, chronicling his (Watson's) breakdown after his girlfriend Terri Herbert died in a car accident in September 2000. Every Song I Write is for You was released in 2001 as a tribute album.
Dale Watson (born 1962, Birmingham, Alabama) is an American alternative country singer, guitarist and songwriter based in Austin, Texas. He's positioned himself as a tattooed, stubbornly independent outsider who is interested in recording authentic country music. Country music today is painted up quasi-pop in country clothes. How sad that the real deal has now become the alternative! Dale Watson his a breath of fresh country air! He's got a voice deep and strong like country's founding fathers...and that rebel attitude to match!
Dale Watson-South Of RoundRock TexasAn early Dale Watson video (dig the silver suit) that was directed by Brent Carpenter and features the cream of Austin music including The Derailers, Don Wal...youtube.com. Official: Dale Watson added 3 new photos. 19 hrs ·. Yesterday, Dale & His Lone Stars played a private house concert in the Great Falls, MT area. We don't do many house events, but do do lots of other private things (weddings, parties, etc.) - but this one routed and filled what would have otherwise been a day off.
Dale L. Watson is the former Assistant Director for the Counterterrorism Division of the FBI, as such he headed the FBI investigation into the September 11, 2001 attacks and the 2001 anthrax attacks. Watson is a native of Central Florida. He graduated from Florida State University with a Bachelor of Science Degree in 1972. After college, Watson was commissioned as a regular U.S. Army Infantry Officer where he served five and one-half year
Watson grew up in poverty outside of Pasadena, Texas as one of four boys. Watson's father (after whom he is named) and his brother, Jim, were both musically inclined and guided what have become his longstanding musical influences. Watson began writing his own songs at age 12, making his first recording two years later. The singer is also featured in the Zalman King documentary Crazy Again, chronicling his (Watson's) breakdown after his girlfriend Terri Herbert died in a car accident in September 2000. Every Song I Write is for You was released in 2001 as a tribute album.
About Dale Watson. A staunch adherent of old-style honky tonk and Bakersfield country, Dale Watson has positioned himself as a tattooed, stubbornly independent outsider only interested in recording authentic country music. It was greeted with enormous acclaim for the vitality Watson brought to his vintage-style material and performances and also featured a witty dig at mainstream country in Nashville Rash.. Follow-up Blessed or Damned appeared in 1996 and continued in a similar vein, as did 1997's I Hate These Songs.
Dale Watson peforming I LIE WHEN I DRINK at KVET FREE TEXAS MUSIC SERIES-WEEK 12. 1  Entertainment. 2  Standard YouTube License. Dale Watson peforming I LIE WHEN I DRINK at KVET FREE TEXAS MUSIC SERIES-WEEK 12. Category. License.