This summer I had an opportunity to visit the fossil site at Mistaken Point in Newfoundland, a bit south of the capital St-Johns. Fossils were first discovered at this site in 1967, by Shiva Balak Misra, an Indian graduate student (1966 - 69) at Newfoundland's Memorial University. Well this is interesting, but it doesn't tell us how many different strata at Mistaken Point contain these Precambrian fossils. One could reasonably guess that in 175 feet (about 58m.) of rock there must be at least a dozen strata with fossils in them.
The fossil terrane of Mistaken Point is the named Avalonian terrane that is found in Western Europe. It formed in the early Cambrian when Pannotia broke from Gondwana -(now South America, Africa, Antarctica, and Australia). The site became quickly recognized in the mid-1980s as an important find containing probably the oldest metazoan fossils in North America and the most ancient deep-water marine fossils in the world. In 1987, a 5 kilometer stretch of coastline was declared an ecological reserve.
The Mistaken Point assemblage of eastern Newfoundland is the oldest diverse assemblage of complex multicellular organisms yet described anywhere in the world. Fossils are spectacularly preserved on tennis court-sized bedding surfaces along the sea-cliffs of the Avalon Peninsula. Remains of soft-bodied animals were discovered at Mistaken Point during the summer of 1967 during the M.Sc. thesis research of S.B. Misra of Memorial University of Newfoundland. Queen's University is currently studying the Mistaken Point assemblage, with several professors and graduate students engaged in studies of the taxonomy and ecology of these ancient organisms.
Today, Mistaken Point is known world-wide for its remarkably preserved fossils, unique in several ways. The Mistaken Point fossils were preserved by being blanketed with layers of fine volcanic ash. Typical of the Mistaken Point biota were large frondlike, leafy forms  some with stalks, others with a bush-like or cabbage-like appearance, others with a branching, tree-like or network-like shapes, and still others spindle-shaped, long and pointed at both ends.
Mistaken Point, Newfoundland is part of the Avalon Peninsula, an ancient landmass from Africa that smashed into eastern North America. This rugged outcrop carried petrified remains of the oldest animal fossils in the world. Evidence of life appeared just before the Cambrian period, over a half billion years ago. This remote place was once a thriving sea floor and home to a community of large, boneless marine creatures who lived and died at the same location.
Frondlike fossils are also common at Mistaken Point. These have a bulb-shaped or disc-shaped holdfast which was attached to the sea floor, and a leaf-shaped main body that probably was held up in the water column. At left, the top two are specimens of Charniodiscus: the holdfasts and stalks are very prominent. Typical of the Mistaken Point biota were large frondlike, leafy forms  some with stalks, others with a bush-like or cabbage-like appearance, others with a branching, tree-like or network-like shapes, and still others spindle-shaped, long and pointed at both ends.
This close-up of a bedding surface at Mistaken Point shows spindle-like fossils preserved beneath a thick bed of volcanic ash. This ash formed from a volcanic eruption that covered the living community and preserved the organisms as impressions on the top of the underlying bed. Queen's University is currently studying the Mistaken Point assemblage, with several professors and graduate students engaged in studies of the taxonomy and ecology of these ancient organisms.
Known to scientists as the Ediacara biota, they are creatures that lived 575 to 542 million years ago, when all life was in the sea. The oldest and most spectacular assemblage of these fossils—the Mistaken Point assemblage (575 to 560 million years old)—is preserved in the 5.7-km 2 Mistaken Point Ecological Reserve. Removal of fossils is strictly prohibited. Mistaken Point Ecological Reserve was established as a Provisional Reserve in 1984 and received permanent designation in 1987. An extension to the west was first added as an Emergency Ecological Reserve in 2003 to encompass newly discovered fossils.
Embedded in Mistaken Point's tilted and cleaved landscape, trapped in ancient volcanic ash, you will find the world's oldest complex multi-cellular fossils, which date as far back as 565 million years. These extraordinary impressions are the missing link that Darwin was looking for to perfect his theory of evolution. On the west coast of Newfoundland, along the path of the Vikings, Table Point Ecological Reserve protects fossils and rocks that have set the standard by which other rock sequences of its age are compared.
Study of the surrounding sedimentary rocks has shown that the Mistaken Point organisms lived in a deep-water environment, far below the depth to which sunlight or surface waves could have reached. This contrasts strongly with most Ediacaran fossil assemblages, which were laid down in relatively shallow water. Typical of the Mistaken Point biota were large frondlike, leafy forms  some with stalks, others with a bush-like or cabbage-like appearance, others with a branching, tree-like or network-like shapes, and still others spindle-shaped, long and pointed at both ends.