The Daikin VRV system is a multi-zone air conditioner with variable refrigerant flow control. VRV systems provide fresh air at the right temperature, with the correct humidity level and at minimum sound level. Including Variable Refrigerant Temperature technology and continuous heating to prevent cold draft.
VRV Multi-Split Type Air Conditioners. The Daikin VRV system is a multi-split type air conditioner for commercial buildings that uses variable refrigerant flow control developed by Daikin to provide customers with the ability to maintain individual zone control in each room and floor of a building. Single Outdoor Unit Series. This outdoor unit allows VRV indoor units and residential indoor units to be used together in one system. This combined system is suitable for use in homes, offices, shops and mid-sized buildings.
Our complete range of control systems. VRV, the original. VRV is the world’s first individual air conditioning system with variable refrigerant flow control. First marketed by Daikin in 1982, the VRV name is derived from technology that we call ‘Variable Refrigerant Volume’. VRV systems provide fresh air at the right temperature, with the correct humidity level and at minimum sound level. Including Variable Refrigerant Temperature technology and continuous heating to prevent cold draft.
When Daikin launched the VRV air conditioning system in 1982, it introduced the world’s first use of variable refrigerant flow control. This technology circulates only the minimum amount of refrigerant needed at any one time and enables individual climate control of air conditioning zones. Single Outdoor Unit Series. This outdoor unit allows VRV indoor units and residential indoor units to be used together in one system. This combined system is suitable for use in homes, offices, shops and mid-sized buildings.
VRV is a system developed and designed by Daikin Industries and means “variable refrigerant volume”. Daikin protected the term VRV so other manufacturers use the term VRF “variable refrigerant flow”. In principle they both work the same and are extremely efficient, reliable, energy saving ways to heat and cool all types of buildings with minimum installation time or disruption.
VRV/VRF Variable refrigerant volume (or flow) technology April 2010 Introduction to VRV / VRF The cooling only and heat pump models are basically Variable Refrigerant Volume or Variable Refrigerant Flow (depending on manufacturer) has been around for about a quarter of a century. System types VRV/VRF systems can be used for cooling only, heat pumping and heat recovery. On heat pump models indoor units can be in either mode but all must be in the same mode if served by the same out door unit. large, sophisticated, efficient multi-splits.
VRV integrated climate control. The Daikin VRV system is a multi-zone air conditioner with variable refrigerant flow control. It gives you the ability to maintain individual zone control in each room and floor of a commercial building. VRV systems provide fresh air at the right temperature, with the correct humidity level and at minimum sound level. Including Variable Refrigerant Temperature technology and continuous heating to prevent cold draft.
Individual Control. Conventional systems air condition a building as a whole, whereas the VRV system air conditions each room individually. Hence it is ideal for the constantly changing occupancy of a typical building. Even further, precise level control is possible that reacts to the exact conditions in each room. VRV II-is a compilation of cutting-edge technologies derived from a Customer First policy. Daikin has put comprehensive cutting-edge technologies into the VRV II, derived fro, its Customer First Policy and 20 years of experience with the VRV System.
Well, the world-famed VRV® (Variable Refrigerant Volume) is a technology pioneered by Daikin. It is rapidly growing acceptance in large size applications, due to its waterless operation, absolute flexibility and energy saving features. The VRV system thus maintains comfortable room temperature at a virtually constant level without temperature variations typical of conventional on/off control systems. Highly sophisticated PID controls provide room temperature within 0.5 deg c from set point.
Variable refrigerant flow (VRF) is an HVAC technology invented in Japan by Daikin company in 1982. Like ductless minisplits VRFs use refrigerant as the cooling and heating medium. 