Our number plate search helps you to find the ideal personalised number plate for your budget. Once chosen we handle all the administration and transfer with the DVLA to assign your private number plate onto your chosen vehicle and can get your number plates delivered direct to your door if required. We offer a first class professional service making the purchase of your cherished number plate easy and hassle free. Our search facility gives you instant access to over 39 million available number plates for sale with prices starting at just £49 so there is something available for every budget.
It is simple and free to transfer your license plates to your new vehicle. The TxDMV encourages you to transfer your plates because it protects you. Your local county tax assessor-collector's office will assist with the transfer and issue you a new registration sticker for your vehicle. The plates are good for seven years, and then you are required to obtain a new set of plates from your local county tax office. Mandatory replacement is necessary because at seven years the reflectivity of the license plate sheeting begins to diminish.
We have been unable to find any listings for Number Plates in Medway. As an alternative maybe you would be interested in our listings for Car Accessories & Parts. Kwik Fit 1 Gun Lane Rochester Kent ME2 4UD. 
3. Getting number plates made up. You can only get a number plate made up from a registered number plate supplier. The supplier will need to see original documents that: 1  prove your name and address. 2  show you’re allowed to use the registration number. 
Remember, it is important you enter registration numbers if you own them already, we do not sell registration numbers, we only make show plates for off road uses such as signs or car motorshows. It is illegal for you to simply make a registration number for any country and use it on public roads. STYLE. Unlike many other number plate and show plate websites, our site allows you to change the font style, change the font colour and even add a coloured shadow to your font styles. All this just to make your custom number plates more customised than ever.
Show plates are not road legal number plates. Show plates sold on this website are for sign use and other off road text uses, such as name, car clubs, garage signs, parking signs etc. We do not sell registration numbers or road legal number plates. We only make show plates. STYLE. Unlike many other number plate and show plate websites, our site allows you to change the font style, change the font colour and even add a coloured shadow to your font styles. All this just to make your custom number plates more customised than ever.
You can get theft-resistant number plates-these make it harder for someone to remove them from your vehicle quickly and reuse them. Ask your local car dealer or registered number plate supplier for more information. You can’t rearrange letters or numbers, or alter them so that they’re hard to read. You could be fined up to £1,000 and your car will fail its MOT test if you drive with incorrectly displayed number plates. The current vehicle registration number format was introduced in 2001.
As part of your vehicle registration you are issued a set of general-issue license plates. The plate number is assigned to you by the TxDMV, cannot be personalized. The plates are good for seven years, and then you are required to obtain a new set of plates from your local county tax office. Mandatory replacement is necessary because at seven years the reflectivity of the license plate sheeting begins to diminish.
Luckily Halfords is here to help-we can make you some shiny new or replacement number plates* for your car or bike while you wait. We can also help out by making you an extra set of number plates if you're towing, or using a rear-mount cycle carrier. And that's not all-you can design your plates online too! (UK only). Most importantly you'll need to bring the right documents with you to your local store to get your new plates. The law states that you must provide current proof of identity and proof of entitlement to the registration mark quoted in order to get replacement number plates.
We offer a huge range of Number Plates, including Replacement Car and Bike Number plates, Novelty Plates, Aluminium, 3d gel and even plates for Trailers and Caravans, Combine Harvesters, Absolutely anything you name it. 