An SAP MaxDB database is a set of data with a regular structure. The data in a database is comprised of the application data (data records in tables) and the database catalog (meta data). Every database has a unique name. When installing you have the following two options: This is useful if, for example, you only need some database tools to manage databases on other computers. To install the database software with a database. In a standard installation of SAP MaxDB with SAP MaxDB Installation Manager, the entire database software is installed with a database. When you install the software, you can also load the demo data. More information: Demo Database. Property. Restrictions. Modifiable.
This chapter is from the book . All enterprise applications like SAP are essentially made up of programs along with the data that are both used by and created by those programs. In the case of an SAP component or product like ECC, the programs and data reside together in the same database. Given its fundamental station in the life of an SAP system, it is important to therefore understand the overall role of the database. In the simplest form, a database is composed of tables, columns (called fields), and rows (called records or data). A classic example of a database is a telephone book, which is organized alphabetically so as to make it possible to quickly find a desired piece of data.
Turn vast amounts of data into meaningful insights that your organization can act on. Data management products from SAP allow you to collect and manage data, store and retrieve data from one or more sources, and distribute that information to one or more audiences quickly and accurately. Note: To expand a navigation entry, click on the gray triangle left to the navigation entry
Loading... The SAP database community is for those members solving challenges with big data, real-time analytics, or extreme transaction processing with SAP’s comprehensive portfolio of database technologies and solutions. 
Relational Database Management System (RDBMS). The SAP database contains literally thousands of tables that store information. Some products like ECC and R/3 have more than 30,000 tables in fact, whereas other products like CRM might have fewer than 10,000. Regardless of the number, these tables are tied to each other through established relationships
SAP HANA is an in-memory, column-oriented, relational database management system developed and marketed by SAP SE. SAP HANA was previously called SAP High-Performance Analytic Appliance. 
The database plays a key role in each SAP system, as it houses all the data that are used by that particular SAP component or product. Many brands of databases exist, making it easy for an IT shop to select a database vendor with which they are probably already familiar. In the simplest form, a database is composed of tables, columns (called fields), and rows (called records or data). A classic example of a database is a telephone book, which is organized alphabetically so as to make it possible to quickly find a desired piece of data.
SAP, started in 1972 by five former IBM employees in Mannheim, Germany, states that it is the world's largest inter-enterprise software company and the world's fourth-largest independent software supplier, overall. You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. The original name for SAP was German: Systeme, Anwendungen, Produkte, German for Systems Applications and Products.. The original SAP idea was to provide customers with the ability to interact with a common corporate database for a comprehensive range of applications