You can go by yourself at 18 You will have to provide your own gun, or rent one. You need to be 21 to buy a handgun from a dealer, but you can own one and possess one at 18, so ranges differ on if they let 18 year olds rent them. Ask if they do, and ask what they have that an 18 year old can rent. Some ranges require you to use their own ammo, but I suspect it is going to be easiest for you to buy gun range ammo anyways. As above, they cannot sell handgun ammo to a minor. Maybe bringing along a 21 year old would be easiest. where to go http://bizdirectory.shootingtimes.com/st...
Report Abuse. Your old enough to go to the range. However, I dont know if you have to be 21 to rent or not. To find a range go to Yahoo Local and search for shooting ranges near your area. If they have a website look it over to see if they rent, if not give em a call. Some ranges require you to use their own ammo, but I suspect it is going to be easiest for you to buy gun range ammo anyways. As above, they cannot sell handgun ammo to a minor. Maybe bringing along a 21 year old would be easiest. where to go http://bizdirectory.shootingtimes.com/st...
Accompanied by an adult, a person of any age can go to a shooting range to … shoot. An individual of any age, in some states, can hunt with a firearm by themselves. My state(nh) allows this. 4 people found this useful. 
Shooting range near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In most states in the United States, there are numerous public-access shooting ranges, ranging for example from 144 in Florida with a population in excess of 18.2 million to 9 in Hawaii with a population of 1.3 million (numbers taken as of October 2008). If one brings one's own firearms, ear and eye protection, it is often possible to buy a 50-round box of 9 mm ammunition and target, rent an indoor lane for an hour, and enjoy shooting for under $50 in the United States. Fees for outdoor ranges are often even less, often running $6.50 for 3 hours of range time.
Answer: You must be at least 18 to own a long gun in New Jersey and 21 to own a pistol. If you are bringing firearms to the range, we ask that you comply with New Jersey State Law. We will check ID of all non-members and verify your age. 
Report Abuse. You will need a parent or guardian to accompany you to a shooting range and supervise you responsibly. Depending upon the particular shooting range and local laws, you will need to be at least 18 years old or 21 years old to use a shooting range without a parent or guardian. gentlewolfspaws · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. If you are shooting a long-gun, you need to be 18 years old. If you plan on shooting a handgun, you need to be at least 21 at most ranges, due to insurance issues. Ranges will sometimes allow children younger than 18 to shoot long-guns if they are accompanied by an experienced shooter. Corvo · 8 years ago.
Q13. How old must you be to buy ammunition? 1  You must always present a valid government-issued photo ID and be at least 18 years of age to purchase rifle ammunition, and at least 21 years of age to purchase rifle and or handgun ammunition. 1
Assuming that you mean shoot, most gun ranges require their members to be a minumum of 18 years old. Accompanied by an adult, a person of any age can go to a shooting range to … shoot. An individual of any age, in some states, can hunt with a firearm by themselves. My state(nh) allows this. 4 people found this useful. It depends on where you are, and what a range's policy is. Some ranges only allow 12 years or older, some will let anyone that is with an adult shoot.