The Addicks Reservoir spillway is located at, , and releases the remainder of Bear Creek just north of Buffalo Bayou. Addicks Reservoir and Dam get their name from the former town of Addicks, TX. Addicks Reservoir is formed by a rolled earthen dam 61,666 feet long and above the streambed. A 12-foot wide gravel road extends along the top of the dam. The top of the dam has a maximum elevation of 122.7 feet above the N.G.V.D. It is estimated the Addicks and Barker Reservoirs, along with other federal construction projects on Buffalo Bayou and its tributaries, will prevent average annual flood damages of $16,372,000 to the city of Houston.
GALVESTON, Texas-Q. Where are the dams located? A. The Addicks and Barker Dams and Reservoirs are located in southeast Texas in the San Jacinto River basin approximately 17 miles west of downtown Houston. The reservoirs are strategically located above the confluence of Buffalo Bayou and South Mayde Creek. Any dam safety issues at Addicks and Barker could have a far greater impact due to the magnitude of people and property downstream, as opposed to other dams around the country located in rural or low-population density areas.
Addicks, a railroad stop for the Bear Creek community, was named after its original postmaster, Henry Addicks, in 1884. The original town site was located just south of the intersection of Patterson Road and Highway 6. The Addicks Bear Creek Cemetery contains the graves of many of the original German settlers. By 1947 the community was forced to move several miles south near the current intersection of I-10 and Highway 6 since the old location became the site for the Addicks Reservoir. Many of the old buildings can still be found.
There are 159 miles of open waterways in the Addicks Reservoir watershed, including Langham Creek and its major tributaries, such as South Mayde Creek (U101-00-00), Bear Creek (U102-00-00) and Horsepen Creek (U106-00-00). 1 When this effort is complete, revised FIRMs for the Addicks Reservoir watershed will be produced based on 1-foot contour interval (rather than on 2-foot contour interval topographic maps) and based on 2008 Land Use data (rather than on 2001 Land Use data). 2  The draft revised FIRMs are under review by FEMA.
ADDICKS, TX. ADDICKS, TEXAS. Addicks, known at various times as Letitia, Bear Hill, and Bear Creek, is just north of Interstate Highway 10 on the outskirts of Houston in western Harris County. The town was named after its first postmaster, Henry Addicks, in 1884. In 1891, when the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad was built, the town became a commercial center for local farmers and ranchers. Both the Bear Creek community and the town of Addicks were destroyed in the Galveston hurricane of 1900.
Welcome to Addicks and Barker reservoirs, a place where visitors can find peace and quiet in the middle of a throbbing metropolitan area. Located about 17 miles from downtown Houston, both Addicks and Barker reservoirs lie entirely within the boundaries of this growing city. 
Any dam safety issues at Addicks and Barker could have a far greater impact due to the magnitude of people and property downstream as opposed to other dams around the country located in rural or low-population density areas.. North of Interstate 10, Barker's younger sibling, Addicks Dam, has also been wiped out by an unstoppable current that starts to overwhelm Buffalo Bayou. Behind the swell, suitcases — left behind by evacuated guests of the Omni Hotel — thud against upper-floor windows of an Energy Corridor office tower.
The town and surrounding community were destroyed by the Hurricane of 1900 but were quickly rebuilt. By 1947 the community was forced to move several miles south near the current intersection of I-10 and Highway 6 since the old location became the site for the Addicks Reservoir. Many of the old buildings can still be found.
Addicks Reservoir is situated on the north side of Interstate 10, it extends slightly north of Clay Rd., and between Barker-Cypress Rd. to the west and Sam Houston Tollway to the east. It is estimated the Addicks and Barker Reservoirs, along with other federal construction projects on Buffalo Bayou and its tributaries, will prevent average annual flood damages of $16,372,000 to the city of Houston.
WATERSHED OVERVIEW. The Addicks Reservoir watershed is located in western Harris County with a small portion crossing into eastern Waller County. Rainfall within the 138 square miles of the Addicks Reservoir watershed drains to the watershed’s primary waterway, Langham Creek (U100-00-00). 1 When this effort is complete, revised FIRMs for the Addicks Reservoir watershed will be produced based on 1-foot contour interval (rather than on 2-foot contour interval topographic maps) and based on 2008 Land Use data (rather than on 2001 Land Use data). 2  The draft revised FIRMs are under review by FEMA.