Your ASVAB scores determine what jobs you will qualify for in the military. Before you embarrass yourself though, you should know that a job in the Army and the Marine Corps is called an MOS - short for Military Occupational Specialty.. 
ASVAB Score-Air Force recruits must score at least 36 points the 99-point ASVAB (Note: The Overall ASVAB Score is known as the  AFQT Score , or Armed Forces Qualification Test Score). Exceptions are made, however, for a handful of high school graduates who can score as low as 31. Army. ASVAB Score-The Army requires a minimum AFQT Score of 31 to qualify for enlistment. However, in recent months, the Army has been approving more and more waivers for those with scores as low as 26 (Category IVA).
Service Branch Required AFQT Score* Army 31 Navy 35 Marines 31 Air Force 36 Coast Guard 45 * These scores are subject to change without notice. In addition, your scores on the other ASVAB composite tests will determine your career field or military occupation eligibili ty. The AFQT score determines whether you’re qualified to enlist in the U.S. military. When the ASVAB is taken in high school, the scores are good for two years. If a student wishes to retake the ASVAB, they must wait 30 days.
Jobs in the Navy are called Ratings. To find the rating you qualify for, the Navy looks at your ASVAB subtest scores-different subtests for different ratings. 
Navy. ASVAB Score-Navy recruits must score at least 35 on the AFQT. The Navy raised this requirement from 31 in 2003 for active duty accessions. Reserve enlistment programs still only require a score of 31. Education-Like the Air Force, the Navy accepts very, very few recruits who don't have a high school diploma. Army. ASVAB Score-The Army requires a minimum AFQT Score of 31 to qualify for enlistment. However, in recent months, the Army has been approving more and more waivers for those with scores as low as 26 (Category IVA).
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, or ASVAB, scores are a part of what determines your ability to enlist in the Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps or Coast Guard. Your ASVAB score includes your Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT) score. For high school graduates, the required score is usually in the lower 30s, while those with a GED are usually required to score at least a 50. A good score for those who have graduated high school is considered to be a 35. The Marine Corps requires a minimum AFQT score of 32 for those with a high school diploma and a minimum score of 50 for applicants with a GED. As with the Navy, only 5 to 10 percent of each year's Marine Corps recruitment class has a GED.
If you score a 90 you scored higher than 90% of those who took the test. So, the average ASVAB score would be the percentile value that puts you right in the middle of everyone who has taken the test or a score of 50. That score of 50 is also important because it’s the minimum score necessary to qualify for most enlistment bonuses like student load repayment and enlistment bonuses. 
Best Answer: The AFQT score is a percentile score, so by definition a 50 is average. I believe that it is designed to be an averagescore for all Americans of military age. 65 might be an average score of people who actually enlist. As far as qualifying for a specific job, the AFQT score won't help you there. show more I have been told that average overall score on the ASVAB is 50 but ive also heard its around 65 so I'm not too sure about this. I am in high school & I took the student version of the ASVAB, although its good to get into the military. I overall scored a 59 on the test, I was wondering if that is enough to get..
The minimum AFQT score for enlistment in the Navy is 31 if you have a high school diploma, and 50 if you have a GED. In addition to scoring a 50, those with a GED must be at least 19 years old and must be able to prove their work history. The Marine Corps requires a minimum AFQT score of 32 for those with a high school diploma and a minimum score of 50 for applicants with a GED. As with the Navy, only 5 to 10 percent of each year's Marine Corps recruitment class has a GED.