1 On average, the overall cost would be around $80 to $135 to have a full power steering flush by a professional mechanic.. 2  On the other hand, if you want to do the job yourself, the cost of the fluid shouldn’t cost no more than $20. 1 Typically, an added cost that you would expect to get from the power steering flush is the repairs for any parts that have been damaged or any other parts that need to be replaced. 2  Fluid leakages to the power steering mechanism needs immediate and quick repair.
It's not necessary to have your power steering fluid flushed. If the fluid level is dropping, you have a leak you need to address. Other than than, old fluid is fine. Brake lines only need to be bled if the fluid has absorbed a lot of moisture, and/or if there is air in the lines. 
If you opt for a dealer to fix the pump problem, power steering pump replacement may cost around $200 - $220. However, if your choose to approach a car mechanic, then it can be done in around $100 - $120. Now, as far as the power steering pump cost is concerned, you may have to shell out somewhere around $100 - $150. It is therefore important to know about these problems, and the cost of their repair. A major overhaul of the entire power steering fluid system can cost around $500-$650, mostly because of the fluid pump's cost and labor charges. Individual problems linked to the fluid hose, valves, etc. can cost much less.
Parts: $120 - $229. The average cost for a power steering pump replacement is between $297 to $454. Labor costs are estimated between $177 to $225 while parts are priced between $120 to $229. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
The service person recommended that we flush both the power steering fluid & brake fluid because he saw some discoloring in both fluid. Each flush would cost about $130 and total would... show more I am driving a 2001 RAV4 which has 30,000 miles on it. The service person recommended that we flush both the power steering fluid & brake fluid because he saw some discoloring in both fluid. Each flush would cost about $130 and total would be $260.
When you turn your steering wheel, the power steering pump pulls fluid from the reservoir, and sends it to the rack and pinion steering gear, where the pressure from the fluid is used to help the wheels turn. Without this fluid, your steering is not power-assisted. The power steering system includes: power steering pump, fluid, belt, hoses and steering gear (rack and pinion). The steering gear connects the steering wheel to the stub axles.
I recently had a few things done on my car, and was told I had no power steering fluid in my car. They charged me $69.99 to replace the power steering fluid. I didn't notice this until I got home because I had a number of things done. It's hard being a woman and not really knowing what's needed and the reasonable rate. ANSWER by Visitor on July 10, 2010. well...power steering fluid costs about $4.99 per bottle and a bottle is enough to fill it up..but a flush costs about $30 plus labor so yea.. Upvote (2).
Power steering problems aren't too rare, so don't be surprised if it happens to you. It is therefore important to know about these problems, and the cost of their repair. A major overhaul of the entire power steering fluid system can cost around $500-$650, mostly because of the fluid pump's cost and labor charges. Individual problems linked to the fluid hose, valves, etc. can cost much less. Advertisement. The problem, if nothing minor, is almost always a fluid leak