Jupiter's moons. Jupiter has at least 63 moons, which are often named after the Roman god's many lovers. The four largest moons of Jupiter, now called Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto, were discovered by Galileo Galilei himself, and are appropriately known today as the Galilean satellites. Ganymede is the largest moon in our solar system, larger even than Mercury and Pluto
The Galilean Moons. Outward from Jupiter: Each of the Jovian planets has a number of moons, although Jupiter has the most with more than 60 catalogued to date. Jupiter's 4 largest moons exhibit some of the most interesting geology in the solar system. They were discovered by Galileo Galilei and are known as the Galilean moons. Jupiter's largest moon, Ganymede, is larger than Mercury while the other three are larger than Pluto. 1  Io. 2  Europa. 3  Ganymede. 4  Callisto. 
Io is the innermost of the four Galilean moons of Jupiter and, with a diameter of 3,642 kilometers, the fourth-largest moon in the Solar System. It was named after Io, a priestess of Hera who became one of the lovers of Zeus. The Galilean moons are the four largest moons of Jupiter — Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto. They were discovered by Galileo Galilei around January 1610 and were the first group of objects found to orbit another planet
Explanation: Ganymede, one of the four Galilean moons of Jupiter, is the largest moon in the Solar System. With a diameter of 5,260 kilometers it is even larger than planets Mercury and Pluto and just over three quarters the size of Mars. Ganymede is locked in synchronous rotation with Jupiter. 
Newly erupted lava roils on the surface of Jupiter's moon Io in this false-color image taken on February 22, 2000, by NASA's Galileo spacecraft. The orange-and-yellow ribbon is a cooling lava flow more than 37 miles (60 kilometers) long. Photograph courtesy NASA/JPL. Two sulfurous eruptions are visible on the surface of Jupiter's volcanic moon Io in this color composite image from the robotic Galileo spacecraft, which orbited Jupiter from 1995 to 2003. Io, one of Jupiter's 62 known moons, is the most volcanically active body in the solar system.
The iconic images of Jupiter show that it reflects many shades of white, red, orange, brown, and yellow. The color of Jupiter changes with storms and wind in the planet’s atmosphere. The colors of Jupiter’s atmosphere are created when different chemicals reflect the Sun’s light. Most of Jupiter is hydrogen and helium, but the top of its clouds are composed of ammonia crystals, with trace amounts of water ice and droplets, and possibly ammonium hydrosulfide.
Galilean moons compared with other Solar System bodies, although pixel scale is not accurate at this resolution. Montage of Jupiter 's four Galilean moons, in a composite image comparing their sizes and the size of Jupiter. From top to bottom: Io, Europa, Ganymede, Callisto. The Galilean moons are the four largest moons of Jupiter — Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto. They were discovered by Galileo Galilei around January 1610 and were the first group of objects found to orbit another planet
The Jovian System. The best of the Jupiter system is pictured in this collage of images acquired by the Voyager and Galileo spacecraft. Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system. The four largest moons of Jupiter are known as the Galilean moons and are named Callisto, Ganymede, Europa, and Io. Inside the orbits of the Galilean moons are Thebe, Amalthea, Adrastea, and Metis. At the lower right is shown the Valhalla region of Callisto