1 You can also start okra directly in your garden 3 to 4 weeks before the last spring frost date as long as you cover the plants with a cold frame or grow tunnel until the weather warms up. Make sure that the covering is 2 to 3 feet tall so that the plants have room to grow. 1 If you do not start your okra plants early, wait until there is stable warm weather. 2  You can plant okra in the garden when the soil has warmed to 65° to 70°F. 3  Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart.
1 You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 2  If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to give them ample room to grow. 3  Okra plants are tall, so be sure to space out the rows 3 to 4 feet apart. 1 If you do not start your okra plants early, wait until there is stable warm weather. 2  You can plant okra in the garden when the soil has warmed to 65° to 70°F. 3  Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart.
Common questions at this point include “How long should seeds be soaked?” and “Can you over soak seeds?” Yes, you can over soak seeds. Too much soaking in water and a seed will drown. It is recommended that you only soak most seeds for 12 to 24 hours and no more than 48 hours. The seeds of some species of plants can survive longer soakings, but you should only do this if the specific instructions for this species recommend so. Soaking seeds before planting is an old-time gardener’s trick that many new gardeners are not aware of. When you soak seeds before planting, you can significantly decrease the amount of time it takes for a seed to germinate.
Sow the seeds or plant the seedlings. When the weather is warm, it's time to plant the okra in your garden. Sow your seeds 4 inches (10.2 cm) apart at a depth of 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm). If you started your seeds indoors, handle the seedlings very carefully and plant them 1 foot (0.3 m) apart in rows 3 feet (0.9 m) apart. 
1 Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart. 2  You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 3  If you are planting okra transplants, be sure to space them 1 to 2 feet apart to give them ample room to grow. 1 If you do not start your okra plants early, wait until there is stable warm weather. 2  You can plant okra in the garden when the soil has warmed to 65° to 70°F. 3  Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart.
1 You can plant okra in the garden when the soil has warmed to 65° to 70°F. 2  Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart. 3  You can soak the seeds overnight in tepid water to help speed up germination. 1 If you do not start your okra plants early, wait until there is stable warm weather. 2  You can plant okra in the garden when the soil has warmed to 65° to 70°F. 3  Plant okra in fertile, well-drained soil in full light about ½ to 1 inch deep and 12 to 18 inches apart.
Prior to planting, soak the okra seeds in water for 12 to 18 hours to soften its hard seed coat. Soaking aids moisture absorption and germination. Plant okra in the spring or early summer once the threat of frost has passed. Choose a garden spot where its shade will not harm other sun loving plants. Sow the seeds one inch deep in rows that are three feet apart. The seeds generally germinate in two to 12 days. Okra will grow in many soil types, so mulch and fertilize as needed.
Plant okra in late spring or early summer, two weeks or more after your last frost has passed. Soak hard okra seeds in plain water overnight before planting, and discard any seeds that float to the top. Plant okra seeds 1 inch deep and 4 inches apart, spacing rows at least 30 inches apart. When okra seedlings are 4 inches tall, thin them to at least 18 inches apart. 
Okra can be established by sowing seeds directly into the garden or by setting out transplants. To enhance germination, soak okra seeds in water for several hours or overnight before sowing. Sow okra seeds outdoors about 2 weeks after the danger of frost is past. In central Iowa, mid to late May would be an appropriate planting date. Sow seeds 1 inch deep. Space seeds 4 to 6 inches apart within the row. Harvest pods when 2 to 4 inches long. (This is usually 5 to 6 days after flowering.) Use a sharp knife or hand shears. Handle the pods carefully as they bruise easily. Since the pods develop rapidly, it's often necessary to harvest pods every other day in July and August.