Zoloft, generically known as sertraline, belongs to a category of antidepressants known as Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors, or SSRIs. Doctors prescribe Zoloft for treatment of depressive disorders, anxiety and other mental health conditions. Weight loss is often preceded by appetite loss, nausea upon eating, and disinterest in food preparation and consumption. Reduced caloric intake and occasionally an increase in physical activity because of reduced depressive symptoms are usually the primary causes of weight loss in patients taking Zoloft.
While Zoloft has a tendency to induce weight loss in many patients, the effect is slight; in initial studies, no more than a couple of pounds. Someone who is getting a good response from Zoloft should not give it up lightly, even with a risk of weight gain down the line. Weight gain is still a minor consideration and most concerns people on long-term maintenance treatment. Other antidepressants have their problems, too.
Weight gain is a possible side effect of Zoloft ® (sertraline hydrochloride), although it is not very common. Based on clinical studies, weight gain occurs in around 1 percent of people who take Zoloft (although the exact percentage was not reported in these studies). Some people experience side effects when taking Zoloft, and weight gain is a possible side effect of the drug.
Common side effects of Zoloft include sleepiness, nervousness, insomnia, dizziness, nausea, skin rash, headache, diarrhea, constipation, upset stomach, stomach pain, changes in appetite, abnormal ejaculation, impotence, decreased sex drive, difficulty having an orgasm, dry mouth, and weight loss. Less serious side effects may include: 1  drowsiness, dizziness, tired feeling; 2  mild nausea, stomach pain, upset stomach, constipation; 3  dry mouth; 4  changes in appetite or weight; 5  sleep problems (insomnia); or. 6  decreased sex drive, impotence, or difficulty having an orgasm
Prevalence. Weight loss is a common side effect of Zoloft, affecting children and adolescents more frequently than adults, who need close monitoring when taking this drug. According to eMedTV, 7 percent of children taking Zoloft experienced weight loss of greater than 7 percent of their body weight. Around 2 percent of adolescents lost more than 7 percent. Most adults lose just a pound of two. Weight loss is often preceded by appetite loss, nausea upon eating, and disinterest in food preparation and consumption. Reduced caloric intake and occasionally an increase in physical activity because of reduced depressive symptoms are usually the primary causes of weight loss in patients taking Zoloft.
I want to know does sertraline cause weight gain or weight loss. She said any time I can stop it and I am due to see her next month. I know it takes 2-6 weeks to see the benefit. Please give me your experience especially those who are slim before starting the medication. 
Not all patients taking Zoloft experience weight changes or other side effects. Weight gain and loss are generally most pronounced at the beginning of treatment and often level off after a few months. If weight changes are persistent or severe, your doctor may adjust the dose of medication or prescribe other treatments. Weight loss is often preceded by appetite loss, nausea upon eating, and disinterest in food preparation and consumption. Reduced caloric intake and occasionally an increase in physical activity because of reduced depressive symptoms are usually the primary causes of weight loss in patients taking Zoloft.
Continue taking Zoloft as prescribed. Photo Credit George Doyle/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Sertraline, or Zoloft, is typically a weight-neutral medication, meaning it does not cause any weight gain or loss, according to an article published in Psychology Today. However, in some people it can lead to weight changes. 
Experts say that for up to 25% of people, most antidepressant medications -- including the popular SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) drugs like Lexapro, Paxil, Prozac, and Zoloft -- can cause a weight gain of 10 pounds or more. 