People with bulimia may be highly attached to their illness for a variety of reasons, but it is less valued than anorexia; also it is usually hidden due to shame about the behaviours of binge eating and purging. Like anorexia and binge eating disorder, it tends to arise in the context of dieting to lose weight. The term has been used to describe the eating patterns of people who are overweight, and also to describe episodes of binge eating in patients with anorexia. Whilst bulimia nervosa was first believed to be a rare disorder, recent studies show that it is strikingly common among younger women. In the 1980s, famous personalities such as Jane Fonda and the Princess of Wales admitted to having this illness and this encouraged others to come forward for help
A person with bulimia may be thin, overweight, or have a normal weight. Also, bulimic behavior, such as throwing up, is often done in private because the person with bulimia feels shame or disgust. This makes it hard to know if someone has bulimia. But there are warning signs to look out for. Also, bulimics might exercise a lot, eat very little or not at all, or take pills to pass urine often to prevent weight gain. Unlike anorexia, people with bulimia can fall within the normal range for their age and weight.
Of course, like with most things the effect that bulimia has on weight can differ from person to person and it’s only right to acknowledge that in some rare cases bulimia does allow people to maintain lower than healthy body weights – but again for the majority of people this is not the case. Of course it’s not hard to understand where the misconception comes from in the first place. After all if you’re purging everything you eat then logically you’d expect to lose weight this way, but the true relationship between bulimia and weight is so much more complex.
1 Recurrent episodes of binge eating. 2  Recurrent inappropriate compensatory behaviors (such as self-induced vomiting, misuse of laxatives, fasting, or excessive exercise) in order to prevent weight gain. 3  The binge eating and inappropriate compensatory behaviors both occur, on average, at least 1x/week for 3 months. Bulimia Nervosa. Bulimia nervosa is a serious disorder that involves a recurring pattern of binge eating followed by dangerous compensatory behaviors in an effort to counteract or “undo” the calories consumed during the binge.
1 Low self-esteem: People with anorexia and bulimia often don’t think much of themselves, and compare themselves unfavourably to other people. 2  Losing weight can be a way of trying to get a sense of respect and self-worth. You find that you: 1  worry more and more about your weight. 2  binge eat (see below). 3  make yourself vomit and/or use laxatives or other ways to get rid of calories. 4  have irregular menstrual periods. 5  feel tired. 6  feel guilty. 7  stay a normal weight, in spite of your efforts to diet.
Many bulimics believe that they “need” to purge in order to lose weight, or to maintain their current weight, but this just isn’t true. In fact more and more research studies are proving that purging actually leads to weight gain in the long run! Of course it’s not hard to understand where the misconception comes from in the first place. After all if you’re purging everything you eat then logically you’d expect to lose weight this way, but the true relationship between bulimia and weight is so much more complex.
A person with bulimia feels he or she cannot control the amount of food eaten. Also, bulimics might exercise a lot, eat very little or not at all, or take pills to pass urine often to prevent weight gain. Unlike anorexia, people with bulimia can fall within the normal range for their age and weight. But like people with anorexia, bulimics: 1  Fear gaining weight
Some people with bulimia are overweight or obese. They attempt to use purging to manage their weight or prevent additional weight gain. Bulimia nervosa is a serious mental illness that requires intensive treatment. Getting help for your bulimia gives you the best chance to overcome this eating disorder. Chronic gastric reflux is a common problem for people with bulimia. Inflammation of the esophagus is also typical. Bulimia may cause gastroparesis, a partial paralyzation of your stomach muscles. It is important to note that chronic health issues do not disappear once you overcome bulimia.
A binge can be triggered by dieting, stress, or uncomfortable emo-tions, such as anger or sadness. Purging and other actions to prevent weight gain are ways for people with bulimia to feel more in control of their lives and ease stress and anxiety. Therapy for a person with bulimia may be one-on-one with a therapist or group-based.Some antidepressants, such as fluox-. etine (Prozac), which is the only medi-cation approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treating bulimia, may help patients who also have depression and/or anxiety.