Bolivia has actively sought to foster economic connections in South America after long relying on the United States as its primary trade partner. Balance of trade and currency Bolivia had an estimated trade surplus of more than US$340 million in 2004. The mining industry, especially the extraction of natural gas and zinc, currently dominates Bolivia’s export economy. Bolivia's 2002 gross domestic product (GDP) totaled $7.9 billion. Economic growth is about 2.5% a year and inflation expected to be between 3% and 4% in 2002 (it was under 1% in 2001).
The South-American country of Bolivia has struggled as on the poorest countries in South America. Wealth inequality is a critical issue for the country of 10 million. 65 percent of the population resides in poverty, with “nearly 40 percent” of the population in extreme poverty. 
Bolivia: Introduction. Bolivia is a landlocked country in South America that borders the countries of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Peru. Bolivia is located in the rugged Andes Mountain with highland plateau and lowland plains of the Amazon basin. Bolivia shares control of Lago Titicaca, the world’s highest navigable lake.
Follow The Money. Bolivia is a landlocked country in South America. It is bordered by Brazil to the north and east, Paraguay and Argentina to the south, and Chile and Peru to the west. Bolivia has a population of 9 million.
The economy of Bolivia is the 95th largest economy in the world in nominal terms and the 87th economy in terms of purchasing power parity. It is classified by the World Bank to be a lower middle income country. With a Human Development Index of 0,675, it is ranked 108th (medium human development). At one time in 1985, Bolivia experienced an inflation rate of more than 20,000 percent. Fiscal and monetary reform reduced the inflation rate to single digits by the 1990s, and in 2004 Bolivia experienced a manageable 4.9 percent rate of inflation.
U.S.-BOLIVIA RELATIONS. The United States established diplomatic relations with Bolivia in 1849 following its independence from Spain. Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, with much of the population living in poverty, and it faces serious economic and social challenges. 
Bolivia has a mixed economic system in which the economy includes a variety of private freedom, combined with centralized economic planning and government regulation. Bolivia is a member of the Andean Community (CAN) and the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Bolivia is located in the rugged Andes Mountain with highland plateau and lowland plains of the Amazon basin. Bolivia shares control of Lago Titicaca, the world’s highest navigable lake.
The Bolivian economy has had a historic pattern of a single-commodity focus. From silver to tin to coca, Bolivia has enjoyed only occasional periods of economic diversification. Political instability and difficult topography have constrained efforts to modernize the agricultural sector. At one time in 1985, Bolivia experienced an inflation rate of more than 20,000 percent. Fiscal and monetary reform reduced the inflation rate to single digits by the 1990s, and in 2004 Bolivia experienced a manageable 4.9 percent rate of inflation.