Labor Contractions. Labor contractions are the periodic tightening and relaxing of the uterine muscle, the largest muscle in a woman's body. Something triggers the pituitary gland to release a hormone called oxytocin that stimulates the uterine tightening. Contractions are often described as a cramping or tightening sensation that starts in the back and moves around to the front in a wave-like manner. Others say the contraction feels like pressure in the back. During a contraction, the abdomen becomes hard to the touch.
(May 2015). A contraction is a shortened version of the written and spoken forms of a word, syllable, or word group, created by omission of internal letters (actually, sounds). This article is about contraction in the grammar of modern languages, which involves elision. For contraction in Ancient Greek and the coalescence of two vowels into one, see crasis. For the linguistic function of pronouncing vowels together, see Synaeresis.
shortening contraction a muscle contraction in which the ends of the muscle move closer together, as when a flexed limb is extended. tetanic contraction sustained muscular contraction without intervals of relaxation. tonic contraction tetanic c. twitch contraction twitch. hourglass contraction contraction of an organ, as the stomach or uterus, at or near the middle. isometric contraction muscle contraction without appreciable shortening or change in distance between its origin and insertion. Isotonic (A) and isometric (B) contraction.
Muscle contraction is the activation of tension-generating sites within muscle fibers. In physiology, muscle contraction does not mean muscle shortening because muscle tension can be produced without changes in muscle length such as holding a heavy book or a dumbbell at the same position. Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric. But if the muscle length lengthens, then the contraction is eccentric. In natural movements that underlie locomotor activity, muscle contractions are multifaceted as they are able to produce changes in length and tension in a time-varying manner.
isotonic contraction muscle contraction without appreciable change in the force of contraction; the distance between the muscle's origin and insertion becomes lessened. lengthening contraction a muscle contraction in which the ends of the muscle move farther apart, as when the muscle is forcibly flexed. hourglass contraction contraction of an organ, as the stomach or uterus, at or near the middle. isometric contraction muscle contraction without appreciable shortening or change in distance between its origin and insertion. Isotonic (A) and isometric (B) contraction.
Contractions. A contraction is a shortened form of two words written as one word in which an apostrophe takes the place of the missing letter or letters. Often the word not is added to a helping verb to form a contraction. NGfL Cymru- Apostrophes for contraction and possession 1.
noun. The definition of contraction is the lengthening or shortening of a muscle fiber or a word formed by combining the sounds of two longer words. 1  An example of a contraction is the action of the uterus during the birth process. 2  An example of a contraction is the word doesn't from does not. contraction-Computer Definition. The shortening of a word or phrase by omitting letters or syllables. In the English language, a contraction generally, but not always, marks the omitted letters or syllables with an apostrophe or a period. Telco, for example, is a contraction of telephone company.