Any junction of dissimilar metals will produce an electric potential related to temperature. Thermocouples for practical measurement of temperature are junctions of specific alloys which have a predictable and repeatable relationship between temperature and voltage. The wires that make up the thermocouple must be insulated from each other everywhere, except at the sensing junction. Any additional electrical contact between the wires, or contact of a wire to other conductive objects, can modify the voltage and give a false reading of
1 You measure the voltage the thermocouple produces, and convert that voltage to a temperature reading. 2  It may be best to do the conversion digitally because the conversion can be fairly nonlinear. 3  Things You Need To Know About Thermocouples. 4  A junction between two dissimilar metals produces a voltage. 1 Type K (Ni-Cr/Ni-Al) thermocouples are also widely used in the industry. 2  It has high thermopower and good resistance to oxidation. 3  The operating temperature range of a Type K thermocouple is from -269 oC to +1260 oC.
The thermocouple is a probe that sits directly in the flame of the pilot light of your gas fired boiler or furnace or water heater or unit heater. That has a copper wire that goes from the probe to your gas valve. 
A thermocouple produces a voltage when the temperature of one of the contact points differs from the temperature of another, in a process known as the thermoelectric effect. The wires that make up the thermocouple must be insulated from each other everywhere, except at the sensing junction. Any additional electrical contact between the wires, or contact of a wire to other conductive objects, can modify the voltage and give a false reading of temperature.
A Thermocouple is a sensor used to measure temperature. Thermocouples consist of two wire legs made from different metals. The wires legs are welded together at one end, creating a junction. This junction is where the temperature is measured. Before discussing the various types of thermocouples, it should be noted that a thermocouple is often enclosed in a protective sheath to isolate it from the local atmosphere. This protective sheath drastically reduces the effects of corrosion.
Purpose of the Thermocouple. A thermocouple is a device for measuring temperature. In a furnace, it is an important safety device. When a furnace turns on, it ignites the gas in one of two ways. Either an igniter creates a spark to light the gas, or else a pilot light which is always left on lights it. 
Thermocouples produce a voltage output that can be correlated to the temperature that the thermocouple is measuring. The documents in the table below provide the thermoelectric voltage and corresponding temperature for a given thermocouple type. Known for their versatility as a temperature sensors, thermocouples can be found in a variaty of styles, such as thermocouple probes, thermocouple probes with connectors, transition joint thermocouple probes, infrared thermocouples, bare wire thermocouple or even just thermocouple wire.
In contrast to most other methods of temperature measurement, thermocouples are self powered and require no external form of excitation. The main limitation with thermocouples is accuracy; system errors of less than one degree Celsius (°C) can be difficult to achieve. The wires that make up the thermocouple must be insulated from each other everywhere, except at the sensing junction. Any additional electrical contact between the wires, or contact of a wire to other conductive objects, can modify the voltage and give a false reading of temperature.
Using Thermocouples to Measure Temperature. A thermocouple is a sensor for measuring temperature. It consists of two dissimilar metal wires, joined at one end and connected to a thermocouple thermometer or other thermocouple-capable device at the other end. When properly configured, thermocouples can provide temperature measurements over wide range of temperatures. Known for their versatility as a temperature sensors, thermocouples can be found in a variaty of styles, such as thermocouple probes, thermocouple probes with connectors, transition joint thermocouple probes, infrared thermocouples, bare wire thermocouple or even just thermocouple wire.
Thermocouples are a widely used type of temperature sensor for measurement and control, and can also convert a temperature gradient into electricity. Commercial thermocouples are inexpensive, interchangeable, are supplied with standard connectors, and can measure a wide range of temperatures. The wires that make up the thermocouple must be insulated from each other everywhere, except at the sensing junction. Any additional electrical contact between the wires, or contact of a wire to other conductive objects, can modify the voltage and give a false reading of temperature.