Well, WAS the healthiest because the Egg White Delight is being marketed as a healthier-for-you Egg McMuffin. A regular Egg McMuffin has 300 calories 12 grams of fat, 5 grams of saturated fat, 260 milligrams of cholesterol, 780 milligrams of sodium, 4 grams of fiber, and 18 grams of protein. There’s a noticeable flavor difference between the two breakfast sandwiches. With the Egg McMuffin, the egg and cheese stand out more, but with the Egg White Delight, I thought the Canadian bacon and cheese were front and center.
1 Egg McMuffin - 300 calories per serving with 12 grams of fat. 2  McMuffin Chicken & Bacon: A breaded chicken patty, egg, bacon, ketchup, a special sauce and a slice of Cheddar cheese in an English muffin. 3  Available in Germany. 1 Sausage McMuffin with Egg-A sausage patty is substituted for the ham and the cheese side of the muffin is switched. 2  Introduced in 1984. 3  In India, chicken is used for the sausage patty. 4  Chicken McMuffin-A breaded chicken patty, lettuce, tomato, mayo
At 250 calories, the new breakfast sandwich is prepared fresh on the grill with 100% egg whites, extra lean Canadian bacon and white cheddar* served on a new muffin made with eight grams of whole grain. 
A McDonalds egg mcmuffin's price can vary depending on whether  you're looking to get a single mcmuffin or get the meal option. A  single mcmuffin costs $2.79 while the meal … option is $3.99 with a  drink of your choice. These prices also apply to egg white delight  mcmuffins. 
T he McDonald's Breakfast Menu is a full meal which includes your choice of entree and the addition of Hash Browns & a Small Coffee. At McDonalds, when you order a meal you get a break in the pricing compared to ordering the same items a la carte. 
Here's the Delight-ful blueprint: the same thin slice of Canadian bacon, white cheddar cheese and fried egg whites on a toasted English muffin. The price of an Egg White Delight McMuffin is the same as that of a regular Egg McMuffin, but you're saving 50 calories and 5 fat grams. The Egg McMuffin, fast food's first hit breakfast sandwich, was introduced in 1972. From the start, it was so simple, so elegant, so insanely popular. The Egg McMuffin consisted of a thin slice of Canadian bacon, American cheese and a slightly scrambled fried egg on a toasted English muffin...
Ask me anything! A McDonalds egg mcmuffin's price can vary depending on whether you're looking to get a single mcmuffin or get the meal option. A single mcmuffin costs $2.79 while the meal option is $3.99 with a drink of your choice. These prices also apply to egg white delight mcmuffins
Not to mention cheaper. In my neighborhood, they are $2.65/each, which is way too much for them. I realize they occasionally have 2 for $3 specials, which in my opinion should be the everyday price. I can’t imagine the cost to make an Egg McMuffin is anywhere close to $2.65. Eggs are one of the cheapest things to buy these days. The fact that they use small eggs makes it even worse. I also like the Bacon, Egg, and Cheese Biscuit, but those are even smaller, but are the same price
At only 300 calories and 12 grams of fat, the Egg McMuffin is also not as deadly as most fast food breakfast sandwiches. It would be nice to find a local deal in your area because the $2.79 regular price is steep for something this small. In my neighborhood, they are $2.65/each, which is way too much for them. I realize they occasionally have 2 for $3 specials, which in my opinion should be the everyday price. I can’t imagine the cost to make an Egg McMuffin is anywhere close to $2.65. Eggs are one of the cheapest things to buy these days.