Vaginal itching can be caused by something as simple as your period products—but in other cases, it can actually be a symptom of a more serious issue. This guide will help you figure out exactly what’s making you feel like you have ants in your pants—and what your treatment options are. RELATED: Anytime your hormones levels change or fluctuate (like during your period, pregnancy, menopause, or while you're taking birth control), you may experience vaginal itching. Dryness is another indicator that hormones could be to to blame for your pain. When it comes to your period, the products you use during that time of the month (like pads and panty liners) often contain fragrances or colors that can add to the discomfort
Itching can be a sign of a yeast infection. Yeast infections can be caused by some medicine you take (like antibiotics), stress, hormonal changes (like right around your period), and even wearing tight clothes. Infections are usually easy to treat. Just see your doctor to make sure you know what's causing your itch. 
During your period you are more likely to get thrush (itchy yeast infection) (or if you had it already without really noticing, at these times symptoms become worse) go to your doctor, or buy canesten cream from a pharmacist. I think it's cause of wearing pads and tampons, so you're keeping you vagina all moist (I know gross lol) Just shower every night, change your pad/tampon every 3 hours and you should be fine. You shouldn't use harsh soaps on the vagina, mild soapy warm water should be fine aswell.
Dealing with a vaginal itch can be very frustrating, but there is no need to panic if this happens a few days before your period. This itching is often accompanied with vaginal dryness. You may also experience burning around the vaginal wall, which might worsen with walking or physical activities. There are two types of vaginal itch: 1  Normal vaginal itch: This occurs in most women around the time of their period. 2  This usually happens due to a drop in estrogen levels, which leads to the thinning and inflammation of the vaginal wall.
1 Normal vaginal itch: This occurs in most women around the time of their period. 2  This usually happens due to a drop in estrogen levels, which leads to the thinning and inflammation of the vaginal wall. 3  It is normal for this to be accompanied by a stinging sensation around the vaginal opening and lower third of vagina. There are two types of vaginal itch: 1 
Yes, it is normal to have diarrhea during your period because I get it sometimes also. I agree with whoever said that, but let me explain why just so that you might feel bette … r. I am 27, so I've had periods for a long time, but the diarrhea didn't start until semi-recently. your vagina contracts, along with your uterus, which makes it sore. It's normal and nothing to worry about. It helps me when i squat with my legs apart-it kind of stretches y … ou out. Or take some motrin.
Within days itching should go away. If it doesn't, the cause of itch may be some kinds of infection or inflammation. Around the time of menstruation, many women are prone to yeast infections. Women’s internal parts have yeast which is normal and healthy. But sometimes there is an over growth of yeast. 1 To prevent a yeast infection during period, use a detachable shower head and spray down there in the shower to keep the area clean. 2  Be careful with douching as it can worsen vaginal dryness. 3  In addition, it is important to resist itching to prevent the infection from spreading.
One day, you'll begin to bleed from your vagina, and that's your period. It means that your body is healthy and normal. Most girls have their first period when they're between 9 and 15 years old. Your period may start around the time it started for other people in your family, like your mom or sisters. The menstrual cycle is the time from the first day of one period to the first day of the next. A normal menstrual cycle can be as short as 21 days or longer than 35 days. For most women, it lasts 25 - 30 days. But it's common for your cycle to vary from month to month. Here are the basics: 1  You have two ovaries.
Menstruation is what most people call having your period.. The menstrual cycle is the time from the first day of one period to the first day of the next. A normal menstrual cycle can be as short as 21 days or longer than 35 days. For most women, it lasts 25 - 30 days. But it's common for your cycle to vary from month to month. Here are the basics: 1  You have two ovaries.