2. High Installation Costs: To get geothermal energy, requires installation of power plants, to get steam from deep within the earth and this require huge one time investment and require to hire a certified installer and skilled staff needs to be recruited and relocated to plant location. Energy created from geothermal power is safe, clean, simple, reliable and environment friendly as it is extracted from deep within the earths surface. But despite these advantages, geothermal energy is not being used widely.
The Disadvantages. 1  Availability – The availability of geothermal energy that is capable of feeding geothermal power stations is limited. 2  This intense energy source is often only available in countries where geothermal activity is at its peak, mainly tectonic/volcanic regions such as Iceland. 1
Geothermal Energy. Geothermal energy represents the energy that comes from the inside Earth in the form of heat. It is the result of transfer of features of water makes its way to the surface and how heat interacts with the Earth’s interior areas. What results in the end, are steam and hot water. Disadvantages of geothermal energy. As a brief history, geothermal hot springs have been used in past centuries for washing and heating homes, in 1904 the first recorded use in the production of electricity (a generator to power four light bulbs). From 1911 to 1958 there was only one geothermal power plant.
While there are many perks, there are also many disadvantages about geothermal energy. This energy comes directly from the Earth, therefore geothermal heat sources can sometimes be dangerous. There are also other disadvantages about geothermal energy. 
As our reliance on fossil fuels have started to increase, geothermal energy is seen as the new source of power generation by digging out the heat stored inside the earth. Advantages of Geothermal Energy: 1. Significant Cost Saving: Geothermal energy generally involves low running costs since it saves 80% costs over fossil fuels and no fuel is used to generate the power. Since, no fuel is require so costs for purchasing, transporting and cleaning up plants is quite low. 2.
Disadvantages Of Geothermal Energy. Energy created from geothermal power is safe, clean, simple, reliable and environment friendly as it is extracted from deep within the earths surface. But despite these advantages, geothermal energy is not being used widely.
by Penna Sparrow. Geothermal energy is the energy obtained from the earth(geo) from the hot rocks present inside the earth. It is produced due to the fission of radioactive materials in the earth’s core and some places inside the earth become very hot. These are called hot spots. They cause water deep inside the earth to form steam. 
Geothermal Energy Disadvantages. Even though there are many advantages, there are also some disadvantages to geothermal energy. There is an initial cost barrier that comes with researching appropriate areas, building the power plant and drilling into the earth. Geothermal energy is renewable energy because once water or steam is used, it can be pumped back into the ground. It is also clean energy. Geothermal power plants, unlike plants that burn fossil fuels, do not produce greenhouse gases that can be harmful to the atmosphere.
Geothermal energy suffers from its disadvantages as described below. 1. Not Widespread Source of Energy: Since this type of energy is not widely used therefore the unavailability of equipment, staff, infrastructure, training pose hindrance to the installation of geothermal plants across the globe. Energy created from geothermal power is safe, clean, simple, reliable and environment friendly as it is extracted from deep within the earths surface. But despite these advantages, geothermal energy is not being used widely.