1 A leasehold property extension is something you really need to think about if your lease has between 70 and 90 years remaining. 2  In particular once the remaining lease term slips under 80 years, the cost of any lease extension increases significantly. 1 Many tenants have the right to extend their lease by an additional 90 years under the 1993 Leasehold Reform Act. 2  A leasehold property extension is something you really need to think about if your lease has between 70 and 90 years remaining.
Lease Renewal Fee. The fee you pay your property manager for a lease renewal is typically pretty minimal. Often, there is a fee of between $75 and $85, which covers the cost of renewing a lease. Your property manager will need to make some time to work with the tenants and get them into the office to sign a lease for an additional period of time. We will focus on the property management fee, the leasing commission or the lease up fee and the lease renewal fee. These are all fairly standard in the property management industry.
Other property management expenses include; Leasing commission of 75% of 1 full month’s rent (we do offer a reduced plan as well, call us to inquire), and $175.00 lease renewal fee. No management fees are incurred while the property is vacant based on the above fee structure. 
The lower the interest rate the higher the lump sum will be. If the existing lease were to run to the end of its term, the property would revert to the landlord. If we say that a flat is worth £250,000 and has an unexpired lease of 75 years we can say that the landlord could expect to receive £250,000 in 75 years time. 
Extending short leases is pricey we're talking tens of thousands. If your lease is shorter than 60 years, talk to a solicitor about how much it will cost to extend (the leasehold calculators won't work below 60 years). Excellent legal advice is a must.
A 99-year lease granted in 1980 will by now have only 67 years left to run. The cost of extending leases on flats and maisonettes built or converted in the Fifties and Sixties meanwhile soars, as the prospect of the property returning to the freeholder gets nearer. If the lease has 70 years left, the cost is £18,000, rising to £30,000 if it has only 60 years left, and £50,000 where there are only 50 years left. Finding this sort of money may not be easy, but burying your head in the sand is likely to work out a costly option as your lease gets shorter.
It's usually then easy and cheap to extend the lease to 999 years at the same time. As a rough rule of thumb, the cost of a share of the freehold for one flat (excluding legal fees) is similar to extending a lease by 90 years (use our calculator). Alternatively, you may still have a legal right to manage your building. If your lease is shorter than 60 years, talk to a solicitor about how much it will cost to extend (the leasehold calculators won't work below 60 years). Excellent legal advice is a must.
Freeholders sit around praying you let your lease drop to 80 years or less, as then they rake in the cash. This is because after that you will pay 50% of the flat's 'marriage value' on top of the the usual lease extension price. Marriage value is the amount of extra value a lease extension would add to your property. If your lease is shorter than 60 years, talk to a solicitor about how much it will cost to extend (the leasehold calculators won't work below 60 years). Excellent legal advice is a must.
The rent in the lease renewal paperwork is a 13.2% increase from what I am paying now, which is quite large and I believe unfair. My monthly payment would jump from $1,325 to $1,500 (and would then increase again the following year). This increase would cost me over $2,000 in the first year alone. 