1 For example, if you have a 10 a.m. flight, and would like to leave at 7 a.m. -- and there is room on the flight -- you can change to the earlier flight any time after 4 a.m. for the $50 fee. 2  If you change your flight more than three hours before departure, the standard rules and fees apply. 1 Delta allows you to cancel any flight without penalty within 24 hours of purchase. 2  If you need to make a change within the first 24 hours of purchasing a ticket, cancel the first itinerary and book a new, separate ticket to avoid the change fee.
At the time you made the change, a flight for the new dates was selling for $500. To switch to that flight, United would charge a $200 change fee, plus another $200 for the fare difference ($500 minus $300). So the change would cost $400 overall—or more than the original ticket cost! And that’s on top of the $300 spent on the initial booking. 
For travel outside the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the change fee for Delta-marketed flights is typically $200 to $500, but can vary based on location and type of fare. Changes are usually permitted only to the return portion of an international itinerary. EXTERNAL TICKETS. You may change your ticket without paying a change fee provided all fare and ticket rules are met and seats are available. If you do not wish to reschedule your travel, you can apply for a refund. NONREFUNDABLE TICKETS. The policies regarding ticket changes for nonrefundable tickets vary.
Click on the flight option that you would like to book. The Delta system will automatically calculate the new cost of the flight, adding the change fees and any increase in fare. If the fare for your new flight is less than what you originally paid, the difference will apply to the change fees. Step 5. Pay for the new flight with a credit card. 1 Delta allows you to cancel any flight without penalty within 24 hours of purchase. 2  If you need to make a change within the first 24 hours of purchasing a ticket, cancel the first itinerary and book a new, separate ticket to avoid the change fee.
Change Fees. Based on the fare rules, you may have to pay a service fee and/or a difference in fare. For travel within the 50 United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the fee is $200 for Delta-marketed flights. You may change your ticket without paying a change fee provided all fare and ticket rules are met and seats are available. If you do not wish to reschedule your travel, you can apply for a refund. NONREFUNDABLE TICKETS. The policies regarding ticket changes for nonrefundable tickets vary.
1 You can make changes to your flight time within three hours of departure for a $50 fee. 2  For example, if you have a 10 a.m. flight, and would like to leave at 7 a.m. -- and there is room on the flight -- you can change to the earlier flight any time after 4 a.m. for the $50 fee. 1 Delta allows you to cancel any flight without penalty within 24 hours of purchase. 2  If you need to make a change within the first 24 hours of purchasing a ticket, cancel the first itinerary and book a new, separate ticket to avoid the change fee.