We are all familiar with misogyny: the hatred of women. This has been well-researched for decades. We are less familiar with misandry: the hatred of men, or more broadly, the hatred, fear, anger and contempt of men. It is worth some consideration, especially since misandry is by no means restricted to women.
This video describes the distinctions between the terms 'misogyny' (hatred of women) and 'misandry' (hatred of men) -- and what language reveals about the nature of a society. Material comes from Chapter 1 of Domination is Abomination: Man's Oppression of Woman by Dr. Catherine Mann. 
Origins [edit]. Misandry, a word which appeared in the nineteenth century, is parallel in form to ' misogyny '. The form misandrist was first used in The Spectator magazine in April 1871. It appeared in Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary (11th ed.) in 1952. Anthropologist David D. Gilmore argues that while misogyny is a near-universal phenomenon there is no male equivalent to misogyny. Gilmore also states that misandry refers not to the hatred of men as men, but to the hatred of men's traditional male role and a culture of machismo. Therefore, he argues, misandry is different from the intensely ad feminam aspect of misogyny that targets women no matter what they believe or do
Misandry, a word which appeared in the nineteenth century, is parallel in form to ' misogyny '. The form misandrist was first used in The Spectator magazine in April 1871. Anthropologist David D. Gilmore argues that while misogyny is a near-universal phenomenon there is no male equivalent to misogyny. Gilmore also states that misandry refers not to the hatred of men as men, but to the hatred of men's traditional male role and a culture of machismo. Therefore, he argues, misandry is different from the intensely ad feminam aspect of misogyny that targets women no matter what they believe or do
Misandry can be manifested in numerous ways, including sexual discrimination, denigration of men, violence against men, or sexual objectification of men. The term misandrist was first used in 1871. Anthropologist David D. Gilmore argues that while misogyny is a near-universal phenomenon there is no male equivalent to misogyny. Gilmore also states that misandry refers not to the hatred of men as men, but to the hatred of men's traditional male role and a culture of machismo. Therefore, he argues, misandry is different from the intensely ad feminam aspect of misogyny that targets women no matter what they believe or do
1. Reality: First we must acknowledge that misandry is partly reality-based to the degree that it is in part a reaction to misogyny, and to the real or perceived oppression of women by men. It's Newtonian physics and the Marxist dialectic: the harder you hit your head against the wall, the harder it hits you back. This has been well-researched for decades. We are less familiar with misandry: the hatred of men, or more broadly, the hatred, fear, anger and contempt of men. It is worth some consideration, especially since misandry is by no means restricted to women.
Misandry is a term referring to hatred or contempt for men. A neologism formed analogous to misogyny (hatred or contempt for women), it was first used widely in the 1970s in response to perceived hatreds within the feminist movement. 
Misogyny (/mɪˈsɒdʒɪni/) is the hatred or dislike of women or girls. Misogyny can be manifested in numerous ways, including sexual discrimination, belittling of women, violence against women, and sexual objectification of women. Misogyny can be found occasionally within ancient texts relating to various mythologies. Misogyny .... is a central part of sexist prejudice and ideology and, as such, is an important basis for the oppression of females in male-dominated societies. Misogyny is manifested in many different ways, from jokes to pornography to violence to the self-contempt women may be taught to feel toward their own bod