Luc /luc/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name. Luc's name origin is Greek, and Luc means from Lucanus. Luc is a French form of Luke (Greek). Compare surname Luk. Luc is an unusual first name for males but a very prominent surname for all people (#13082 out of 150436, Top 9%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Luc for boys
Origin of the name Luke: The Middle English and Anglo-French form of Lucas. The name is borne in the Bible by one of the four evangelists, the author of the third Gospel, Luke, and the Acts of the Apostles. Lucas is an Ecclesiastic Late Latin name thought to be a derivative of Lucius, which is from the root lux (light). Share what you know! Nicknames for Luc: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Luc : | Edit. A french baby name, in the form of Luke.
[ 1 syll. luc, lu-c ] The baby boy name Luc is pronounced Luh-K †. Luc is of Old Greek origin and it is used mainly in French. Luc is a form of the Latin and English Luke. See also the related form, the French Jean-Luc. Luc is rare as a baby boy name. At the modest peak of its usage in 2002, 0.008% of baby boys were named Luc. It was #930 in rank then
The name Luc is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Luc is: Light; illumination. Form of Luke. Welsh Meaning: The name Luc is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Luc is: light'. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.
Luc Name Meaning. French: from the personal name Luc, a vernacular form of Lucas.French: topographic name from Latin lucus ‘wood’, or a habitational name from places in Aveyron and Lozere lozère named with this.Word: vietnamese. unexplained You can find out where the majority of the Luc families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Luc Name Meaning. French: from the personal name Luc, a vernacular form of Lucas.French: topographic name from Latin lucus ‘wood’, or a habitational name from places in Aveyron and Lozere lozère named with this.Word: vietnamese. Unexplained: Source dictionary Of American Family ©names, 2013 Oxford University. press You can find out where the majority of the Luc families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Lucy is an English and French feminine given name derived from Latin masculine given name Lucius with the meaning as of light (born at dawn or daylight, maybe also shiny, or of light complexion). Alternative spellings are Luci, Luce, Lucie. 
Personal experiences with the name Luc: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Luc: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Luc : | Edit. A french baby name, in the form of Luke.