To envy . Its origin is  Latin . Another meaning of Livia is  Elf army  and  olive tree . Its origin is  Nickname of the English name Olivia . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 749th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Meaning of Livia: This is a feminine form of Livius, which is a Roman family name that is derived from either the Latin liveo (to envy) or lividus (envious).
The name Olivia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Olivia is: Olive. Latin Meaning: The name Olivia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Olivia is: Olive: symbol of peace. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Olivia is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Olivia is: Twelfth Night', also called 'What You Will' A rich countess. 
Meaning of Livia. English name. In English, the name Livia means-life ancient roman name abbreviation of olivia.The name Livia originated as an English name. The name Livia is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-life ancient roman name abbreviation of olivia. Origin-England. 
Livia is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#2752 out of 4276, Top 64%) and also a somewhat prominent surname for both adults and children (#107038 out of 150436, Top 71%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Livia for girls. Shown below is an analysis of the usage of the girl name Livia and affiliated names. Prominent related forms of Livia (#666 a year ago) rated in the Top 1000 are Olivia (#2 a year ago) , Alivia (#214) , Olive (#282) , Liv (#780) , Alyvia (#922) , Ollie and Olevia.
In addition, Livia is a form of the German, Latin, Scandinavian, and English Liv. Livia is also a Hebrew form of the English and Hebrew Liviya. Livia is also an English and Hebrew familiar form of the English, German, and Italian Olivia. Livia is the feminine equivalent of the German Livius. Forms of Livia include the Hebrew Levia, the name Livi, the name Livie, the name Livya, the name Lyvi, and the name Lyvia. Livia is somewhat popular as a baby girl name. The name has been growing in popularity since the 2000s. Its usage peaked modestly in 2012 with 0.019% of baby girls being named Livia
Livia was a literary favorite from the sixteenth century, appearing in the plays of John Fletcher and Thomas Middleton, and playing a minor role in Romeo and Juliet. Anna Livia Plurabelle is the name of a character in James Joyce 's Finnegans Wake. Though it sounds like a chopped-off variation of Olivia, the distinctively attractive Livia has been an independent name since the days of the ancient Romans, when it belonged to Livia Drusilla, the powerful wife of the Emperor Augustus ., and is still commonly heard in modern Italy.
Livia /li-via/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Livia is  olive . Usually used as a short form of Olivia. Shown below is an analysis of the usage of the girl name Livia and affiliated names. Prominent related forms of Livia (#666 a year ago) rated in the Top 1000 are Olivia (#2 a year ago) , Alivia (#214) , Olive (#282) , Liv (#780) , Alyvia (#922) , Ollie and Olevia.
[ 3 syll. li-via, liv-ia ] The baby girl name Livia is pronounced as L IH V-iy-aa- †. Livia is of Old Norse, Latin, and Hebrew origin. It is used mainly in English, German, Hebrew, and Italian. Latin origin: It is derived from the word lividus which is of the meaning 'bluish, lead-colored'. Forms of Livia include the Hebrew Levia, the name Livi, the name Livie, the name Livya, the name Lyvi, and the name Lyvia. Livia is somewhat popular as a baby girl name. The name has been growing in popularity since the 2000s. Its usage peaked modestly in 2012 with 0.019% of baby girls being named Livia