The question is not which protein is better, but which one is better absorbed. Whey is the fastest digesting, whereas casein is slower digesting so your body gets the protein slowly and evenly throughout roughly 8 hours. Egg or Albumin protein is also slower digested to spread out absorption.
Casein protein and whey protein supplements have distinct yet complementary effects on your body. The two proteins may be taken separately or in combination, depending on the results you are seeking. One of the three main food groups required by your body, proteins are made up of amino acids.
On the other hand, whey protein is considered the highest quality natural protein. It has all nine essential amino acids that help prevent the breakdown of muscle tissue. Whey protein is also a rich source of naturally occurring branched chain amino acids such as leucine, isoleucine and valine.
Casein protein is the predominant protein found in mammal milk. It makes up about 80% of the protein in cow's milk and between 60% to 65% of human milk. When milk curdles, casein is found in the solidified part of the milk, which is also known as curds.
In one study, researchers gave healthy subjects 30 grams of either whey protein or casein protein and made several measures of the anabolic and catabolic effect for 7 hours after the meal. [2] Whey protein resulted in a rapid increase in blood amino acids and protein synthesis, but it was short-lived.
Whey is best for post workout, when you want a faster absorbing protein to repair and rebuild muscles. Casein is better when you won't be getting protein for over 4 hours, like before bed or as a meal replacement. The best proteins in my opinion are the blended ones that have fast and slower releasing proteins.
Whey and casein are dairy proteins found in milk – casein is the “curds” in “curds and whey” (think: cottage cheese). Whey is considered a “fast” protein, because it is rapidly digested in as little as an hour, whereas casein is a “slow” protein that is digested over several hours.
Casein is considered a slow protein. When you consume casein, you will reach a peak in blood amino acids and protein synthesis between 3 to 4 hours. 5,12. This peak, however, does not even come close to that of whey. On a scale of 1-10 (with 10 being the highest or fastest), whey would be a 10.
Whey protein is a lot better if you want bigger and stronger muscles. It's also healthier too. research shows higher cancer rates from Casein protein, because it's derived from animals. Your muscles also absorb Whey protein than Casein protein after working out.