The skin is so fragile in people with epidermolysis bullosa that even minor rubbing may cause blistering. At times, the person with epidermolysis bullosa may not be aware of rubbing or injuring the skin even though blisters develop. In severe epidermolysis bullosa, blisters are not confined to the outer skin. Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (EBA) is a rare autoimmune disorder in which the body attacks its own anchoring fibrils with antibodies, the special proteins that help fight and destroy foreign substances that invade the body.
Epidermolysis bullosa simplex is one of a group of genetic conditions called epidermolysis bullosa that cause the skin to be very fragile and to blister easily. Blisters and areas of skin loss (erosions) occur in response to minor injury or friction, such as rubbing or scratching. 
About Epidermolysis Bullosa. Epidermolysis bullosa is a group of blistering skin conditions. The skin is so fragile in people with epidermolysis bullosa that even minor rubbing may cause blistering. At times, the person with epidermolysis bullosa may not be aware of rubbing or injuring the skin even though blisters develop. In severe epidermolysis bullosa, blisters are not confined to the outer skin. 
Fast Facts: An Easy-to-Read Series of Publications for the Public. Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) is an illness that causes the skin to be fragile. Because the skin is so fragile, it can be easily injured, causing painful blisters to form. These blisters can cause serious problems if they become infected. Some people with EB have a mild form of the disease with few blisters. For others, there may be many blisters on the skin. Some people develop blisters inside the body—in places such as the mouth, stomach, esophagus (the tube that allows food to move between the throat and stomach), bladder, and elsewhere. 
Introduction. Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is a general term used to describe a group of rare inherited skin disorders that cause the skin to become very fragile. In people with EB, any trauma or friction to the skin can cause painful blisters. 
Junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB) is one of the major forms of epidermolysis bullosa, a group of genetic conditions that cause the skin to be very fragile and to blister easily. 
Knowledge center. Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is a rare group of inherited conditions of connective tissue that cause blisters in the skin and mucosal membranes in response to heat, friction, rubbing, scratching or minor injury. EB is caused by a fault (mutation) in the keratin or collagen gene. 
Junctional epidermolysis bullosa. Epidermolysis bullosa (ep-ih-dur-MOL-uh-sis buhl-LOE-sah) is a group of rare diseases that cause the skin to blister. The blisters may appear in response to minor injury, heat, or friction from rubbing, scratching or adhesive tape. 