The Test. The tacrolimus test is used to measure the amount of the drug in the blood to determine whether the concentration has reached a therapeutic level and is below the toxic level. It is important to monitor levels of tacrolimus for several reasons: Signs and symptoms of tacrolimus toxicity vary according to the type of organ transplant and may include: 1  Kidney damage (nephrotoxicity). 2  Tremors, headache (neurotoxicity). 3  High blood pressure. 4  Nausea and vomiting. 5  Electrolyte disturbances, such as hyperkalemia.
Tacrolimus (also FK-506 or fujimycin, trade names Prograf, Advagraf, Protopic) is an immunosuppressive drug used mainly after allogeneic organ transplant to lower the risk of organ rejection. Tacrolimus was first approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1994 for use in liver transplantation; this has been extended to include kidney, heart, small bowel, pancreas, lung, trachea, skin, cornea, bone marrow, and limb transplants.
Tacrolimus lowers your body's immune system. The immune system helps your body fight infections. The immune system can also fight or reject a transplanted organ such as a liver or kidney. This is because the immune system treats the new organ as an invader. Tacrolimus is used together with other medicines to prevent your body from rejecting a heart, liver, or kidney transplant.
The immune system can also fight or reject a transplanted organ such as a liver or kidney. This is because the immune system treats the new organ as an invader. Tacrolimus is used together with other medicines to prevent your body from rejecting a heart, liver, or kidney transplant. Tacrolimus may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Uses. Tacrolimus is used with other medications to prevent rejection of a kidney, heart, or liver transplant. This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as immunosuppressants. It works by weakening your body's defense system (immune system) to help your body accept the new organ as if it were your own. Dosage is based on your weight, medical condition, blood test results (e.g., tacrolimus trough levels), and response to therapy. Do not increase your dose or take this medication more often without your doctor's approval. Your condition will not improve any faster and the risk of serious side effects may be increased.
Tacrolimus is an immunosuppressive drug that is given orally or intravenously to people who have had a kidney, liver, heart, or other organ transplant. It is a potent drug that helps to prevent rejection of the transplanted organ by the body. This test measures the amount of tacrolimus in the blood. Normally, a person's immune system recognizes a new, transplanted organ as foreign and begin to attack it. Tacrolimus limits this response and helps to prevent organ rejection by inhibiting the activation of certain immune cells called T-lymphocytes.
It works by decreasing your body's immune system. Tacrolimus topical (for the skin) is used to treat severe atopic dermatitis (eczema). Tacrolimus may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use tacrolimus topical if you are allergic to it. To make sure you can safely use tacrolimus topical, tell your doctor if you have any of these other conditions: 1  skin cancer or a skin infection (including herpes or chickenpox); 2  any genetic skin disorder (such as Netherton's syndrome);
History [edit]. Tacrolimus was discovered in 1987; it was among the first macrolide immunosuppressants discovered, preceded by the discovery of rapamycin (sirolimus) on Rapa Nui (Easter Island) in 1975. Tacrolimus was first approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1994 for use in liver transplantation; this has been extended to include kidney, heart, small bowel, pancreas, lung, trachea, skin, cornea, bone marrow, and limb transplants.
To make sure tacrolimus is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  kidney or liver disease; 2  heart disease, high blood pressure, high cholesterol or triglycerides (a type of fat in the blood); 3  a heart rhythm disorder or history of long QT syndrome; 4  if you take heart rhythm medication; or. The immune system can also fight or reject a transplanted organ such as a liver or kidney. This is because the immune system treats the new organ as an invader. Tacrolimus is used together with other medicines to prevent your body from rejecting a heart, liver, or kidney transplant.