PRIMROSE Postal Code (GP). Primrose is a suburb of Ekurhuleni, Gauteng with a postal code. It is about 13 kms north of GP's capital city of Johannesburg. 
The postal code of Germiston which is listed in our database is B-1401. Our records often include geographical coordinates of Germiston and it's corresponding postal code. In the result box below, you can find the postal code of Germiston and it's location on the map if we have the location information available. Every postal code is also located in a region or a district, in case we know the district or region of the city it will too be listed in the results. 
GERMISTON SOUTH Postal Code (GP). Germiston South is a suburb of Ekurhuleni, Gauteng with a postal code. It is about 14 kms north of GP's capital city of Johannesburg. 
LAMBTON Postal Code (GP). Lambton is a suburb of Ekurhuleni, Gauteng with a postal code. It is about 15 kms north-northwest of GP's capital city of Johannesburg. 
Please type in the city or suburb's name for the postal code that you are looking for. 
Germiston is a city in the East Rand of Gauteng in South Africa. Germiston is now the seat of the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality which includes much of the East Rand, and is also considered part of Greater Johannesburg. Lambton is the closest residential suburb to Rand Airport. In 1921 the world's largest gold refinery, the Rand Refinery, was established at Germiston. Seventy percent of the Western World's gold passes through this refinery. Gold mining gradually wound down and, by the end of the 20th century, no longer existed.
Germiston is a suburb of Ekurhuleni, Gauteng with a postal code. It is about 15 kms north of GP's capital city of Johannesburg. 
WADEVILLE Postal Code (GP). Wadeville is a suburb of Ekurhuleni, Gauteng with a postal code. It is about 16 kms north-northwest of GP's capital city of Johannesburg. 
These postal code details have been gathered from the Postal Code booklet published by the SA Post Office. Blaauwberg Online™ accepts no responsibility for errors that may be as a result of the SA Post Office. 
LEONDALE Postal Code (GP). Leondale is a suburb of Ekurhuleni, Gauteng with a postal code. It is about 18 kms north-northwest of GP's capital city of Johannesburg. 