Basic Types of Grasslands based on Climatic Dryness. 1. Tropical Grasslands-Tropical Grasslands are located near the equator, between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. Most of the Tropical Grasslands are found in the interior part of continents between the Tropical Rain Forests and Tropical Deserts. Natural Grasslands primarily occur in regions that receive between 500 and 900 mm (20 and 35 in) of rain per year. Grasslands can exist naturally in areas with higher rainfall when other factors prevent the growth of Forests, such as in serpentine barrens, where minerals in the soil inhibit most Plants from growing.
The Kans Grasslands among the Terai-Duar savanna and grasslands in India are dominated by the tall grass species that is the first to colonise the exposed silt plains after the retreat of monsoon floods. This is the keystone habitat for Rhinoceroses and other large mammal species. There are also several other National Parks that are situated within the premises of the ecoregion formed by the Terai-Duar savanna and grasslands in India. The parks include the Royal Chitwan National Park the Royal Bardia National Park, the Royal Shukla Phanta Wildlife Reserve, and the Dudwa National Park.
BIOGEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS OF INDIA Biogeography deals with the geographical distribution of plants and animals. Communities of plants and animals in different geographical areas of the world differ widely from each other. Biogeography is divided into branches: i] Phyto-geography and ii] Zoo-geography. Phyto-geography (plant geography) deals with origin, distribution and environmental interrelationships of plants. Vegetation types of India—Forests and Grasslands. Depending upon rainfall, temperature and biotic influences, the vegetation of India is represented by 2 types i.e. forest and the grass land types. Forests occupy about 75 million hectares (23% of land surface).
Shadows on the Grass. India has different types of grasslands. There are the terai grasslands along the Ganga and Brahmaputra floodplains which hosts the highest large mammal concentrations in the country, comparable to the savannah in plains of Africa. There is one group of plants, which supports the largest masses of wildlife in the world and also supports most of our human populations: grasses. This remarkable plant group covers a fourth of all the land on the earth. Grasslands flourish where there is just enough rain, but not enough to support forests.
The Terai-Duar savanna and grasslands in India cover a wide range of habitat types like the savanna grasslands, evergreen and deciduous forests, thorn forest, and steppe. The forests in this ecoregion are low in elevation and are hot and humid in the summer. There are also several other National Parks that are situated within the premises of the ecoregion formed by the Terai-Duar savanna and grasslands in India. The parks include the Royal Chitwan National Park the Royal Bardia National Park, the Royal Shukla Phanta Wildlife Reserve, and the Dudwa National Park.
A Grassland is a is a type of Habitat or Biome which is dominated by Grasses and other Herbaceous (non-woody) Flowering Plants and a variety of scattered Trees and Bushes. Grasslands occur in areas where there is not enough regular rainfall to support the growth of a Forest, but not so little as to form a Desert. Natural Grasslands primarily occur in regions that receive between 500 and 900 mm (20 and 35 in) of rain per year. Grasslands can exist naturally in areas with higher rainfall when other factors prevent the growth of Forests, such as in serpentine barrens, where minerals in the soil inhibit most Plants from growing.
Grassland Adapted Animals-The Animals that live in Grasslands have adapted themselves to dry, windy conditions. Most of the Animals found in Grasslands are grazers which eat a variety of Grasses and other Plants. Natural Grasslands primarily occur in regions that receive between 500 and 900 mm (20 and 35 in) of rain per year. Grasslands can exist naturally in areas with higher rainfall when other factors prevent the growth of Forests, such as in serpentine barrens, where minerals in the soil inhibit most Plants from growing.
The most widespread grassland in India are Imperata grasslands. The majority of the grass species found in India belong to the tribes Andropogoneae (30%), Paniceae (15%), and Eragrosteae (9%) . Grasslands of India are home to some of the most endangered species of animals some of which are endemic. Grassland Ecosystem in India. Grassland Ecosystem in India varies as per the type of grasslands. These grasslands have varying ecosystems because of various factors like climate, soil, rain and geographical location. These factors encourage a variety of ecosystems each having its own features.
Grasslands are characterized as lands dominated by grasses rather than large shrubs or trees. In the Miocene and Pliocene Epochs, which spanned a period of about 25 million years, mountains rose in western North America and created a continental climate favorable to grasslands. Savannas of one sort or another cover almost half the surface of Africa (about five million square miles, generally central Africa) and large areas of Australia, South America, and India. Climate is the most important factor in creating a savanna.
Grasslands in India. Grasslands in India are lands dominated by grasses with certain number of other plants like trees, shrubs and herbs. Indian grasslands are found at various altitudes and in various geographical regions under various climatic conditions. Grassland Ecosystem in India. Grassland Ecosystem in India varies as per the type of grasslands. These grasslands have varying ecosystems because of various factors like climate, soil, rain and geographical location. These factors encourage a variety of ecosystems each having its own features.