A Jaguar is much a larger, muscular and heavier cat than the mountain lion. Large adult male Jaguars can reach 350 lbs while large adult mountain lions can reach upto 19 … 0 lbs, which is approximately half the size of the jaguar. Jaguars have yellow coats with black rosettes which has black spots in the center. puma and mountain lion are the same;pumas are also known as panther,cougar etc.jaguar is as slightly different animal but from the cat family.it is said to be the only o … ne to be able to kill it's prey in one bite even thoght the tiger is regarded to be more fierce.
The cougar is known by many names, such as the puma, mountain lion, catamount or panther. Despite their large size, the cougar is not a true “big cat”. The cougar is a member of the felidae family, as opposed to the panthera family as of the tiger and lion. The major difference between the two families is the panthera family’s ability to roar. Felidae cats can not roar, instead make noises such as purrs, hisses, chirps and screams.
Lions and tigers are among the most ferocious animals but there are important differences between them. They are both among the five big cats (the other three being the jaguar, leopard, and snow leopard) and are apex predators — i.e., they have no predators of their own and reside at the top of their food chain. 
by Naveen. Cougar vs Mountain Lion. Cougar and mountain lion could be confusing, especially in referring to them. Therefore, a proper understanding is necessary about these names and the differences between them would be important to be aware of if there are any. 
puma and mountain lion are the same;pumas are also known as panther,cougar etc.jaguar is as slightly different animal but from the cat family.it is said to be the only o … ne to be able to kill it's prey in one bite even thoght the tiger is regarded to be more fierce. Confidence votes 84. A Jaguar is much a larger, muscular and heavier cat than the mountain lion. Large adult male Jaguars can reach 350 lbs while large adult mountain lions can reach upto 190 lbs, which is approximately half the size of the jaguar.
The cheetah in this pic is below.[7]. Cougars are also members of the Felidae family and they are also a distinct species. They belong to the puma genus. Alternative terms for cougar include puma, mountain lion, mountain cat, catamount. Unlike leopards, cougars typically don't have spots, and they are also smaller than leopards. Genetically, they're also more related to domestic cats than the four big cats. [3]. Panther is a versatile word that can refer to different leopards, jaguars, or mountain lions. It can refer to a melanistic or black cat. That's why the phrase black panther is common. In Africa and Asia, panther refers to leopards
Mountain Lion. Mountain lion, Puma concolor, aka Puma or cougar, is a hugely built native cat to the Americas. Mountain lions prefer to live around mountains more often than not. Mountain lions are important animals, being the fourth largest among all the felines. 
The cougar (Puma concolor), also puma, mountain lion, cool cat or panther depending on region, is a mammal of the Felidae family, native to the Americas. tiger, lion, cat and kitten u already must be noeing. Source(s): Vaibhhav · 7 years ago. 
Lions vs Tigers. Although both lions and tigers are wild animals that belong to the cat family, there are many differences between these two big cats. Their appearance is the most obvious difference between a lion and a tiger. Tigers have bold, black stripes across their bodies, whereas lions do not have any stripes. Tigers also do not have manes like the male lions. Male lions have a large mane around their faces. 