But a curved phone, much like a curved TV, reduces the open angle of the screen, which blocks out some side light while reflecting another portion away from the viewer's eyes. And, more importantly, the concave shape of the phone (when held in portrait mode) causes a slight magnification effect. And then there's the cost; the cheapest you can get a curved Sony right now is $3,000; Samsung's will set you back $9,000. Which seems like a heavy premium for not much perceptible gain. As gimmicky as recent curved smartphones might seem, a curved display benefits mobile devices in many of the same ways it does a TV.
After years of pushing ever-flatter, thinner TVs, manufacturers are throwing buyers a curve—literally, with curved-screen sets. This year Samsung has curved Ultra HD TVs (the HU9000 series) and curved 1080p sets (H8000 series), and you can still buy the curved 1080p TV (S990A) Sony launched last year. 
The eyes have it. If you believe LG, Panasonic, Samsung, and Sony, curved TVs aren’t just pleasing to the eye, they are what the eye craves. The crux of the “more immersive” argument has to do with the shape and structure of the human eyeball. Though TVs have evolved to employ a flat screen, your eye is round. 
Depth – Due to the nature of the screen, curved monitors produce an almost 3D-like picture without the annoyances and headaches of actual 3D viewing. Although the image is not technically 3D, the curvature of the screen enhances your perception of depth. Immersion – By slightly bending the edges of the screen toward you, curved monitors and TVs try to replicate the sense of ‘real world’ vision. This wrap effect attempts to fill your peripheral vision as well as focusing the image in front of your eyes.
Well, curved displays are “in” again — at least, TV and computer monitor manufacturers want you to think so. Remember, though — these are the same manufacturers who were pushing 3D TV just a few years ago, and they’ve now given up on those 3D TVs. Curved TVs and computer monitors are exactly what they sound like. Remember with CRTs when they were round, then curved rectangles(like a chunk out of a sphere), then vertically flat (like a chunk out of a cylinder), and finally flat. Then came the thin flat monitors (Plasma/LCD).
Here’s a quick guide to the pros and cons of curved monitors. Pros. Immersion – By slightly bending the edges of the screen toward you, curved monitors and TVs try to replicate the sense of ‘real world’ vision. This wrap effect attempts to fill your peripheral vision as well as focusing the image in front of your eyes.
The problem with curved LCD screens is that the form factor provides no tangible benefit for off-axis viewers, and UHD/4K content offers no significant benefits to viewers who sit 10 or 12 feet away from a 55- or 65-inch screen. 
10. Since their launch in 2013, curved monitors and TVs have been seeping into the market to something of a mixed reception. Although curved screens offer a number of benefits, their hefty price tags and unusual format have dissuaded a number of would-be buyers. Immersion – By slightly bending the edges of the screen toward you, curved monitors and TVs try to replicate the sense of ‘real world’ vision. This wrap effect attempts to fill your peripheral vision as well as focusing the image in front of your eyes.
The problem is not with the idea of curved screens, but a curved screen TV. To get the benefit of a wraparound image, or even the benefit of a more natural image that has every part equidistant from your eye, you need to be sitting in a pretty specific place. Bottom line. Look, the fact that a flat-screen TV can be curved at all is pretty amazing. But since OLED is barely off the ground (arguably, not off the ground at all), it's disappointing to see finite resources going into something of little value beyond hey, neato which, also arguably, OLED inherently has already.
LG's 55-inch EA9800 OLED for example, is just slightly curved, with a radius of curvature of 16.4 feet (5.0 meters), so the corners of the screen are only 1.4 inches (3.6 cm) forward of the rear (center) of the screen, Dr. Soneira writes. That little bit of bend can make a big difference: And then there's the cost; the cheapest you can get a curved Sony right now is $3,000; Samsung's will set you back $9,000. Which seems like a heavy premium for not much perceptible gain. As gimmicky as recent curved smartphones might seem, a curved display benefits mobile devices in many of the same ways it does a TV.