Medical Definition of SARCOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : the endoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle and skeletal striated muscle that functions especially as a storage and release area for calcium. Definition of SARCOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : the specialized endoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle and skeletal striated muscle that functions especially as a storage and release area for calcium. ADVERTISEMENT. noun.
granular reticulum rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum. sarcoplasmic reticulum a form of agranular reticulum in the sarcoplasm of striated muscle, comprising a system of smooth-surfaced tubules surrounding each myofibril. stellate reticulum the soft, middle part of the enamel organ of a developing tooth. endoplasmic reticulum an ultramicroscopic organelle of nearly all higher plant and animal cells, consisting of a system of membrane-bound cavities in the cytoplasm; occurring in two types, rough-surfaced (granular r.), bearing large numbers of ribosomes on its outer surface, and smooth-surfaced (agranular r.) .
: the specialized endoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle and skeletal striated muscle that functions especially as a storage and release area for calcium. Definition of SARCOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : the specialized endoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle and skeletal striated muscle that functions especially as a storage and release area for calcium. ADVERTISEMENT. noun.
Sarcoplasmic reticulum. Definition. noun. The special type of smooth endoplasmic reticulum found in smooth and striated muscle fibers whose function is to store and release calcium ions. Supplement. The sarcoplasmic reticulum releases calcium ions during muscle contraction and absorb them during relaxation. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 18 September 2008, at 09:28.This page has been accessed 284,989 times.
sarcoplasmic reticulum. noun. : the endoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle and skeletal striated muscle that functions especially as a storage and release area for calcium. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about sarcoplasmic reticulum. Definition of SARCOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : the specialized endoplasmic reticulum of cardiac muscle and skeletal striated muscle that functions especially as a storage and release area for calcium. ADVERTISEMENT. noun.
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a type of organelle in the cells of eukaryotic organisms that forms an interconnected network of flattened, membrane-enclosed sacs or tube like structures known as cisternae. The endoplasmic reticulum serves many general functions, including the folding of protein molecules in sacs called cisternae and the transport of synthesized proteins in vesicles to the Golgi apparatus.
granular reticulum rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum. sarcoplasmic reticulum a form of agranular reticulum in the sarcoplasm of striated muscle, comprising a system of smooth-surfaced tubules surrounding each myofibril. a network of tubules and sacs in skeletal muscle fibers that plays an important role in muscle contraction and relaxation by releasing and storing calcium ions. This network is analogous, but not identical, to the endoplasmic reticulum of other cells.
the agranular endoplasmic reticulum of skeletal and cardiac muscle; the complex of vesicles, tubules, and cisternae forming a continuous structure around striated myofibrils, with a repetition of structure within each sarcomere. a network of tubules and sacs in skeletal muscle fibers that plays an important role in muscle contraction and relaxation by releasing and storing calcium ions. This network is analogous, but not identical, to the endoplasmic reticulum of other cells.