Report Abuse. DIFFRACTION-diffraction is bending of light at the corner of an obstacle. eg: DIFFRACTION OF LIGHT REFRACTION-Refraction is the bending of a wave when it enters a medium where it's speed is different. Refraction-is the change in direction of waves which occurs when waves travel from one medium to another Diffraction-is the bending of waves around obstacles and opening.
Reflection is the rebounding of light from the surface of an object. Refraction is the passing of light through a medium (may be liquid or a transparent solid) with some change in the velocity of light during the process. Reflection: When light beam is in contact with a reflective polished surface than it traces its path according to laws of reflection. Diffraction: Its a phenomenon by which light bends around the corner of small obstacles and it spreads out. (You can imagine this obstacle as a very sharp corner of a lab plane mirror).
1.7k Views. DIFFRACTION: The phenomenon of bending of light around the corners of an obstacle or aperture into region of geometrical shadow. The diffraction of light more pronounced when the dimension of the obstacle or aperture is comparable to the wavelength of the wave. Reflection: When light beam is in contact with a reflective polished surface than it traces its path according to laws of reflection. Diffraction: Its a phenomenon by which light bends around the corner of small obstacles and it spreads out. (You can imagine this obstacle as a very sharp corner of a lab plane mirror).
Both diffraction and refraction involve change of direction of waves. When a wave encounters an obstacle, bending or spreading occurs, which we call diffraction. On the other hand, waves refract when they travel from one medium to another. Intensity of the fringes decreases as we move along either side of the central maxima. Refraction. When a wave passes from one medium to another at any angle except 90° and 0°, its line of travel changes at the interface due to the change in velocity of the wave. This is what we call refraction. Although light waves provide most of the examples for refraction, any other wave can also refract
Answer by Physics-nerd. Confidence votes 414. in reflection occurs when a wave bounces off a reflective surface, refraction is when a wave enters a new median, changing its speed, direction, and wavelength, and diffraction is when a wave bends due to a boundary. 
Diffraction is the bending of waves around an obstacle, while interference is the meeting of two waves. For instance, diffraction is what results from a pinhole blocking a wav … e source, the wave spreads out from that one point. 
Difference Between Diffraction and Refraction. • Diffraction is bending or spreading of waves around an obstacle, while refraction is bending of waves due to change of speed. • Both diffraction and refraction are wavelength dependant. Hence, both can split white light in to its component wavelengths. Intensity of the fringes decreases as we move along either side of the central maxima. Refraction. When a wave passes from one medium to another at any angle except 90° and 0°, its line of travel changes at the interface due to the change in velocity of the wave. This is what we call refraction. Although light waves provide most of the examples for refraction, any other wave can also refract
Surfline forecaster Katie Jackson discusses the difference between refraction and diffraction of swell.. A Physic's definition of refraction involves a change in the direction of waves as they pass from one medium to another. 
Best Answer: Refraction is the change in direction of waves which occurs when waves travel from one medium to another. Refraction is always accompanied by a wavelength and speed change. Diffraction is the bending of waves around obstacles and openings. The amount of diffraction increases with increasing wavelength. Refraction-is the change in direction of waves which occurs when waves travel from one medium to another Diffraction-is the bending of waves around obstacles and opening.