9 people found this useful. If you smoke it occasionally it will remain in your system for up to 10 days.If you smoke marijuana on a regular basis it will stay in your system for as long as 45 days, and … if you smoke marijuana at a constant pace, it can stay in the body for 90 days. Marijuana is fat soluble. 
1 Decide how much tincture you would like to make. 2  A ratio of 1 gram of weed to 35 mL (1 fluid ounce) of alcohol is the minimum, although some people use up to 6 grams per 35 mL. 3  Pick a moderate ratio for your first time, and see how it works for you. Instructions: 1  Decide how much tincture you would like to make. 2  A ratio of 1 gram of weed to 35 mL (1 fluid ounce) of alcohol is the minimum, although some people use up to 6 grams per 35 mL. 3  Pick a moderate ratio for your first time, and see how it works for you. 4  There are about 20-25 drops in 1 fluid ounce
Vegetable glycerine is also used to make non-alcohol tinctures – these tinctures are known as glycerites. They have a much longer shelf life than the apple cider vinegar - 3 to 5 years if stored in a cool, dark cupboard. For children under 12, please see our Children’s Dosage Guide for recommendations. With this standard dosing suggestion (for adults) of two droppersful three times a day, tincture bottles typically last this long: 1  1oz. tincture bottle will last about one week. 2  2oz. tincture bottle will last two weeks. 3  4oz. tincture bottle will typically last about a month
How to Make a Tincture. Also called an extract (in fact, the same process is used to make real vanilla extract), alcohol tinctures are the most common type and the easiest to make. First, pick which herbs you plan to use. Store the tincture in colored dropper bottles or clean glass jars. NOTE: The alcohol can be evaporated before use (see below) or a tincture can be made in the same way using apple cider vinegar, though it will need to be stored in the fridge and will only last 3-6 months.
8. Store and use. A tincture can have a shelf life of up to 5 years owing to the fact that alcohol is a preservative. However, know the properties of the particular herbs you've used, and follow the guidance of the recipe from which you're making the tincture in terms of how long to keep the tincture for. 1 Tinctures last longer than dried herbs, usually up to 2-5 years. 2  You can make combinations of herbs if you have instructions to follow from a reputable source. 3  You can burn off the alcohol by putting the dose into a cup of boiling water and drinking as a tea
I make most tinctures in an alcohol base as this makes them the most long lasting, but tinctures can also be made with glycerine, vinegar or even with honey to make a syrup! To make a tincture, you will need the following supplies: 1  A clean glass jar (at least pint size) with lid. Store the tincture in colored dropper bottles or clean glass jars. NOTE: The alcohol can be evaporated before use (see below) or a tincture can be made in the same way using apple cider vinegar, though it will need to be stored in the fridge and will only last 3-6 months.