Gantry Cranes. Hoosier Crane offers a full range of Gantry Cranes for any budget, capacity or size. Gantries are a great solution for mobile applications within a facility. We offer gantry crane solution small enough to be set up with 1 to 2 people and moved easily throughout a building on the small capacity. 
The terms gantry crane and overhead crane (or bridge crane) are often used interchangeably, as both types of crane straddle their workload. The usual distinction drawn between the two is that with gantry cranes, the entire structure (including gantry) is usually wheeled (often on rails). By contrast, the supporting structure of an overhead crane is fixed in location, often in the form of the walls or ceiling of a building, to which is attached a movable hoist running overhead along a rail or beam (which may itself move).
7-5 Chapter 7 Overhead and Gantry Cranes operating ropes if manual controllers are used, or near the pendant push-button station if magnetic controls are used. 2. An under-voltage trip for a main circuit breaker, operated by an emergency stop button in the pendant push-button station or the pulpit. DOE-STD-1090-2007 7-9 Chapter 7 Overhead and Gantry Cranes person in evaluating remaining strength in a used rope, after allowance for deterioration disclosed by inspection. Safety of rope operation depends on this remaining strength. Table 7-1. Maximum allowable rope reductions.
Adjustable Height Steel Gantry Cranes provide an economical way to lift materials anywhere within a facility. The casters enable you to move the gantry around your work area. This is a more cost-effective lifting solution for areas of infrequent lifts than a more expensive permanent structure. 
Overhead cranes of the Hainaut carries in Soignies (Belgium). An overhead crane, commonly called a bridge crane, is a type of crane found in industrial environments. An overhead crane consists of parallel runways with a traveling bridge spanning the gap. A hoist, the lifting component of a crane, travels along the bridge. This is most common type of overhead crane, found in most factories. As obvious from name, these cranes are electrically operated by a control pendant, radio/IR remote pendant or from an operator cabin attached with the crane itself.
Definition of GANTRY CRANE. : a bridge crane in which the beam or bridge is carried at each end by a trestle that travels on tracks on the ground. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis
Gantry cranes are a type of crane built atop a gantry, which is a structure used to straddle an object or workspace. They are also called portal cranes, the portal being the empty space straddled by the gantry. By contrast, the supporting structure of an overhead crane is fixed in location, often in the form of the walls or ceiling of a building, to which is attached a movable hoist running overhead along a rail or beam (which may itself move).
A gantry crane is a type of overhead crane with supports that hold it up that are fixed in location. This means that the crane cannot move, so everything that it is going to lift must be brought to the crane. The supports form a large rectangular frame upon which the crane can move forward and back, and left and right. 
Gorbel's Fixed and Adjustable Height Steel Gantry Cranes provide an economical way to lift materials anywhere in a facility. The wheels enable you to move the gantry around your facility. This is more cost-effective lifting solution for areas of infrequent lifts than a more expensive permanent structure. 