A diversity audit should begin with ensuring that everyone – from upper management down – has a thorough understanding of laws governing diversity recruitment, including affirmative action planning and equal employment opportunity hiring. And it’s not uncommon for employers to factor diversity at work in both their hiring schematic as well as their overall organizational and inclusion programs. Conducting periodic diversity audits will ensure that each of these goals is met.
See the potential within Sample Diversity Audit You may wish to review certain aspects of your organisation to implement diversity, or you may find it helpful to use this Diversity Audit to give you a complete overview of the key areas you should take into consideration. 
Diversity Audit. Today, as a result of external trends within the labour market as well as organisations realising the business case for valuing a diverse workforce, diversity has evolved, and indeed continues to do so. A diversity audit will involve meticulous analysis of policies and procedures, observations of behaviours, attitudes and management methods. Our consultants will conduct diagnostic interviews, and use procedures that encourage all employees to communicate their views and issues both openly and anonymously.
Diversity Audit. diversity Audit Question Number Four Take one good organization of your convenience and make diversity audit, develop a business case for diversity initiative. Diversity Audit. well as employees to conduct a diversity audit as well as determine a well suited diversity initiative.
In conducting a full diversity audit your organisation will see the following benefits: 1  Uncover sources of potential bias and ways in which the organisation’s culture can overtly and covertly discriminate against certain individuals. A diversity audit will involve meticulous analysis of policies and procedures, observations of behaviours, attitudes and management methods. Our consultants will conduct diagnostic interviews, and use procedures that encourage all employees to communicate their views and issues both openly and anonymously.
Hence in case of Diversity, such an audit is important to understand where the organization stands and the distance it needs to cover with respect to its goals in this area. If one is conducting a comparative survey, then this helps to assess one’s situation against the market practice. Planning and implementing a diversity audit is an essential process. Since it is in the nascent stages as yet in India, here are a few key pointers on what to bear in mind when conducting this. Hence, an audit or survey, is not only introspective but also a critical buy-in tool to have the top management aligned to the thought process. Diversity interventions and approaches will need the support of the leadership, which will typically come when they see the business connect.
A cultural audit is an examination of an organization’s cultural characteristics (its assumptions, norms, values and practices) to find out to what extent they hinder or support its mission. The focus of Stockton’s cultural audit will be diversity and inclusion. A cultural audit will enhance Stockton’s current culture. We intend to discover issues that inhibit inclusion and equity for all members, in order to engage diversity more effectively. This is also an opportunity to say who we are as a community, what we value, and whether we are living what we say.
A diversity audit is a thorough review of an organization's employment practices related to the makeup of its workers. Audits examine the workplace to ensure the organization is meeting legal requirements and fulfilling any mission that relates to diversity initiatives among its workers. Organizations either use an internal team or an external contractor to conduct the audit. Audits are conducted with different methods, utilizing tools such as surveys, data review, focus groups and individual interviews. An audit should reveal both the level of awareness of an organization's policies and how successfully they're being implemented, according to Global Excellence.
What is a diversity audit? A diversity audit is an examination of an organization’s diversity characteristics (its assumptions, norms, values, and practices) to find out to what extent they hinder or support the company’s mission. How is the diversity audit conducted?The key components of a diversity audit are focus groups, interviews, or survey. How is “diversity” being defined?In using the word “diversity”, we intend to respond to the concerns and desires of all constituents in the department.