If the protruding tissue of a hernia can be manually pushed back through the defect in the body wall (which usually but not always is in the abdominal wall), then the hernia may be considered to be reducible. This is most commonly possible with umbilical and inguinal hernias, but it is not often reliably accomplished. If the bulging tissue cannot be pushed back into its correct anatomical position, the hernia is considered to be incarcerated. When the tissue of an incarcerated hernia loses its blood supply, it becomes a strangulated hernia. Strangulated hernias can become true medical emergencies.
Signs and Symptoms of Dog Hernias. The signs of a perineal hernia in dogs are typically very recognizable. A perineal hernia will appear as a well-rounded lump in the pelvic, abdominal, or rectal area. It will be soft and actually feel somewhat squishy to the touch. Surgery is usually the best way to correct perineal hernias in dogs. If the hernia does not appear to be severe, however, less invasive methods of treatment may be tried first. Stool softeners and laxatives may be given to help reduce the need to strain during urination and defecation.
The hiatus is an opening in the diaphragm -- the muscular wall separating the chest cavity from the abdomen. Normally, the esophagus (food pipe) goes through the hiatus and attaches to the stomach. In a hiatal hernia (also called hiatus hernia) the stomach bulges up into the chest through that opening. 
Inguinal Hernia in Dogs. Much like humans, dogs can suffer from hernias. An inguinal hernia is a condition in which the abdominal contents protrude through the inguinal canal or inguinal ring, an opening which occurs in the muscle wall in the groin area. Inguinal hernia can occur in both dogs and cat
Some hernias are reducible, meaning that the protrusion can be pushed back into the abdomen.. An umbilical hernia can vary in size from less than a quarter-inch (1-cm) to more than an inch (2.5-cm) in diameter. Small (less than ¼ inch or 1-cm) hernias may close spontaneously (without treatment) by age 3 to 4 months. In rare cases, a portion of the intestines or other tissues can be trapped and become strangulated.. An umbilical hernia is a protrusion (outward bulging) of the abdominal lining, abdominal fat or a portion of abdominal organ(s) through the area around the umbilicus (navel or belly button). The umbilicus in dogs and cats is located on their underside just below the ribcage
Dogs can be born with them, or they can be the result of an injury. A hernia is a tear in the wall of a muscle that allows the internal organs or fatty tissue normally found behind the muscles in the abdomen to push through. There is good news and bad news when it comes to hernias. The bad news is, depending on the type, they can be life-threatening. There are five common types of hernias seen in dogs. 1  Umbilical: This is the most common type of hernia. 2  These are congenital and most commonly seen in puppies. 3  If your pooch has an umbilical hernia, you will notice that her belly button has been replaced by a squishy protrusion.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Perineal hernias can only be treated with surgery. Because the hernia sac bulges through the bottom of the pelvis wall, surgery is needed to reduce the hernia (push the abdominal organ back behind the abdomen wall) and to close the opening in the abdomen. 
Do inclined leg lifts. As stated above, a weakened area such as the abdominal wall can result in a protrusion of an organ or intestines. So as a solution, do exercises to help strengthen the body part in which a hernia occurs. Inclined leg lifts are a good place to start. Incisional hernias occur when the intestines push through the incision scar or weakened tissue after abdominal surgery. 1  A bulge or swelling at the surgical site in the abdomen is the only symptom.. 2  The intestines push through the incision scar or weakened tissue resulting in bulging or swelling.