Average Daily temperature:temperature taken each day for a number of days added together and divided by the number of days Average monthly temperature: Temperature taken each month for a number of months added together and divided by the number of months. Source(s): Editing the Best Answer. Sowad · 9 months ago. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Temperature range: the numerical difference between the minimum and maximum values of temperature observed in a system, such as atmospheric temperature in a given location.
Report Abuse. An edit to the Best Answer Temperature range: the numerical difference between the minimum and maximum values of temperature observed in a system, such as atmospheric temperature in a given location. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Temperature range: the numerical difference between the minimum and maximum values of temperature observed in a system, such as atmospheric temperature in a given location.
The device will operate effectively within a specified temperature range which varies based on the device function and application context, and ranges from the minimum operating temperature to the maximum operating temperature (or peak operating temperature). Outside this range of safe operating temperatures the device may fail. Aerospace and military-grade devices generally operate over a broader temperature range than industrial devices; commercial-grade devices generally have the narrowest operating temperature range. It is one component of reliability engineering.
Average Daily temperature:temperature taken each day for a number of days added together and divided by the number of months Average monthly temperature: Temperature taken each month for a number of months added together and divided by the number of months. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Temperature range: the numerical difference between the minimum and maximum values of temperature observed in a system, such as atmospheric temperature in a given location.
Normal body temperature can range from 97.8 degrees F (or Fahrenheit, equivalent to 36.5 degrees C, or Celsius) to 99 degrees F (37.2 degrees C) for a healthy adult. A person's body temperature can be taken in any of the following ways: Orally. Temperature can be taken by mouth using either the classic glass thermometer, or the more modern digital thermometers that use an electronic probe to measure body temperature.
temperature range Extent of diurnal or seasonal (annual) temperature variation. Generally the highest annual range of temperature is experienced in higher latitudes, especially over 65° N, which reflects the continental influences of N. America and Asia. Tropical land masses tend to have the highest diurnal temperature ranges, which in the equatorial zone are much higher than the annual variations. Normal temperature was based on the average temperature of hundreds of people using...in the armpit, where the temperature is a little lower than in...place the thermometer, body temperature varies over the course of...different normal baseline ... For more facts and information, see all results.
Temperature is a measurement of the relative heat energy in an object or system. This reflects the average kinetic energy of its molecules. Temperature is the warmth or cold … ness of an object or substance with reference to some standard value. What is the definition of range in math? For a Function   The range is the set of all possible values of a function for the  values of the variable.    For Statistical Data   The range is the differ … ence between the greatest data value and the  least data value of a set
The definition of temperature range is the dirrefernce between the highest and lowest temperature that is occurring over an area in a certain amount of time. What is the definition of range in math? For a Function   The range is the set of all possible values of a function for the  values of the variable.    For Statistical Data   The range is the differ … ence between the greatest data value and the  least data value of a set