The endoplasmic reticulum is a clear, tubular system of tunnels throughout the cell. It transports materials like proteins around the cell and is found in both plant and animals cells. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle that appears in all eukaryotic cells, usually surrounding the nucleus. The ER is made of a series of membranes that extend throu … ghout the jelly-like cytoplasm and kind of form a maze.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The other region is called smooth ER because it lacks attached ribosomes. Typically, the smooth ER is a tubule network and the rough ER is a series of flattened sacs. The space inside of the ER is called the lumen.
The Endoplasmic Reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a network of membrane-enclosed tubules and sacs (cisternae) that extends from the nuclear membrane throughout the cytoplasm (Figure 9.1). The entire endoplasmic reticulum is enclosed by a continuous membrane and is the largest organelle of most eukaryotic cells. Its membrane may account for about half of all cell membranes, and the space enclosed by the ER (the lumen, or cisternal space) may represent about 10% of the total cell volume.
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis.
Endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules, vesicles and sacs that are interconnected. They may serve specialized functions in the cell including protein synthesis, sequestration of calcium, production of steroids, storage and production of glycogen, and insertion of membrane proteins. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle that appears in all eukaryotic cells, usually surrounding the nucleus. The ER is made of a series of membranes that extend throu … ghout the jelly-like cytoplasm and kind of form a maze.
Two types of Endoplasmic Reticuli exists, the rough endoplasmic reticulum and the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is involved in the synthesis of … proteins -{from through}- VIA the ribosomes embedded within its structure. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum is involved in the synthesis of lipids and steroids. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle that appears in all eukaryotic cells, usually surrounding the nucleus. The ER is made of a series of membranes that extend throu … ghout the jelly-like cytoplasm and kind of form a maze.
Ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum are called ‘membrane bound’ and are responsible for the assembly of many proteins. This process is called translation. Certain cells of the pancreas and digestive tract produce a high volume of protein as enzymes. 
Another organelle in the cell is the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). While the function of the nucleus is to act as the cell brain, the ER functions as a manufacturing and packaging system. It works closely with the Golgi apparatus, ribososmes, mRNA, and tRNA. 
What is the endoplasmic reticulum? The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membrane-enclosed tubules and sacs, called cisternae. This network extends from the nuclear envelope throughout the cytoplasm (remember that the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope is continuous with the rough endoplasmic reticulum). 
All eucaryotic cells have an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) . Its membrane typically constitutes more than half of the total membrane of an average animal cell (see Table 12-2). The ER is organized into a netlike labyrinth of branching tubules and flattened sacs extending throughout the cytosol (Figure 12-35). 