Subterranean termites cause more damage to homes in U.S. than storms and fire combined; colonies can contain up to 1,000,000 members. Subterranean termites nest in the soil to obtain moisture, but they also nest in wood that is often wet. They easily attack any wood in contact with the ground. If the wood does not contact the soil, termites can build mud tunnels or tubes to reach wood several feet above the ground. They can also enter a structure through expansion joints in concrete slabs or where utilities enter the house. Winged termites emerging from the ground out-of-doors near the house do not necessarily mean the house is infested, but it is a good reason to check further. Termites in the wood of homes or other buildings usually come from colonies already established in the soil.
Ants are social insects-they live in colonies that contain three castes or groups: workers, queens, and males. Most of the ants you find in a colony are the workers, which are sterile females. They are responsible for gathering food, feeding the brood and queen(s), and defending the nest. Immature ants or “brood” are usually a whitish color and somewhat resemble fly maggots. They are found inside the nest where they are tended by adult workers. Adult ants do not grow. Some ant species have may have individuals of different sizes.
Termite colonies need four conditions to survive: food, water, shelter and the optimal temperature. If these conditions are met, termite colonies can mature in two to four years. Termite Colony Size. Termite colony size varies based on the termite species and the colony’s maturity. 
Carpenter ants can forage great distances from their nest for food and shelter (200 to 300 feet). When adequate food or shelter is found, these “scout ants” will provide a scent trail (pheromone trail) back to the main colony, recruit other ants, and follow the provided scent trail back to the source of food or shelter. 
1 Termites may excavate the wood so that only a very thin layer of wood is left on the surface of the cavity and the outside. 2  Then this layer is broken; they will cover the holes with mud like material, used to make the tubes. 3  This is a mixture of soil, feces, and saliva. The following list indicates common signs of a subterranean termite infestation. It is recommended that you have your house thoroughly inspected by a pest control professional trained to detect the sometimes subtle signs of termites. 1  The presence of mud-like material that lines the galleries in an irregular pattern.
Carpenter ants must go outside the nest to find food. In the woods, carpenter ants prefer a traditional diet of aphid honeydew and other insects. But carpenter ants are omnivorous and can eat a variety of animal and plant foods. Carpenter ant damage is different from termite damage. The ant tunnels across the wood’s grain whereas termite tunnels follow the wood’s grain. Ant tunnels are clean; termite tunnels are covered with mud.
Although these insects are often called white ants, they are not ants. Like ants and some bees and wasps, which are in a separate order, Hymenoptera, termites divide labour among castes that consist of sterile male and female workers and soldiers. All termite colonies have fertile males called kings and one or more fertile females called queens. Termites mostly feed on dead plant material and cellulose, generally in the form of wood, leaf litter, soil, or animal dung. Among all predators, ants are the greatest enemy to termites. Some ant genera are specialist predators of termites. For example, Megaponera is a strictly termite-eating (termitophagous) genus that perform raiding activities, some lasting several hours.
It is a tell-tail sign of a carpenter ant infestation. Carpenter ant damage is different from termite damage. The ant tunnels across the wood’s grain whereas termite tunnels follow the wood’s grain. Ant tunnels are clean; termite tunnels are covered with mud. Piles of dust are often seen near the ant nest site
When ants leave the nest in search of food, they walk randomly, leaving trails of home-finding pheromone as they go. When an ant finds food, it picks up a piece and follows its home-finding trail back to the nest, leaving a trail of food-finding pheromone as it goes. If a pheromone trail leads an ant back to the nest with empty jaws, it turns around and follows the trail in the opposite direction. Once an ant reaches the food, it grabs a piece and turns around, following the same trail back to the nest. On the way back, an ant reinforces the trail by laying down more pheromone.
1 The presence of mud-like material that lines the galleries in an irregular pattern. 2  Termites may excavate the wood so that only a very thin layer of wood is left on the surface of the cavity and the outside. 3  Then this layer is broken; they will cover the holes with mud like material, used to make the tubes. The following list indicates common signs of a subterranean termite infestation. It is recommended that you have your house thoroughly inspected by a pest control professional trained to detect the sometimes subtle signs of termites. 1 