A company adopts some human resource strategies to address particular skills deficits so the lack of workers with particular expertise does not place the business at a competitive disadvantage. Policies, including flexible work-force policies, require careful planning and implementation to accomplish their intended objectives, according to Kent Weaver of the Brookings Institute.
A major benefit of job specialization is that it allows for a. a flexible work force. b. enrichment of virtually all jobs. c. excellent coordination of contributors to a total job. d. the development of expertise at all occupational levels. 
Training Issues. Your firm's new employees typically receive initial on-site training before switching to flexible work hours. But when a department manager must familiarize workers with new procedures or equipment, the manager might have to conduct multiple training sessions to reach all flexible workforce employees. Your company's success depends on its ability to satisfy its customers and interact with its vendors. To provide exemplary customer service, your front office, retail store, purchasing department or other service-focused entity must always have capable employees on hand. Operating with a flexible workforce can result in reduced or nonexistent coverage at certain tim
The Advantages of a Core Workforce. Core employees are not identified until the company's vision and goals are defined. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Companies may divide their workforce into two major groups, peripheral or flexible and core. A peripheral or flexible workforce includes employees that are only temporary or that do not contribute to the most essential tasks the business must complete. A core workforce includes employees who perform the vital activities of the company. This is much harder to do with a flexible workforce because the number of employees, and thus the skill and knowledge set available, is not reliable. With a concrete plan in place, managers can measure what the employees are doing and provide specific information to investors and others interested in the company.
Manufacturing and warehouse facilities need consistent employee coverage to operate smoothly. Jupiterimages/Creatas/Getty Images. Your company's flexible workforce structure can accommodate employees with transportation or personal issues that keep them from working a standard schedule. Your company's success depends on its ability to satisfy its customers and interact with its vendors. To provide exemplary customer service, your front office, retail store, purchasing department or other service-focused entity must always have capable employees on hand. Operating with a flexible workforce can result in reduced or nonexistent coverage at certain times
Women in the workforce earning wages or a salary are part of a modern phenomenon, one that developed at the same time as the growth of paid employment for men, but women have been challenged by inequality in the workforce. 
Decline in Productivity. A flexible work-force policy intended to improve productivity may have the opposite effect depending on the individual employees selected to fill particular positions and affected by the policy. Policies, including flexible work-force policies, require careful planning and implementation to accomplish their intended objectives, according to Kent Weaver of the Brookings Institute.
Increased Support of Strategic Objectives. Positive and negative work-force changes affect a company’s ability to achieve strategic objectives. Consequently, to successfully compete in its chosen markets, a company must anticipate those changes and the effects of the changes on the way it conducts its business. Policies, including flexible work-force policies, require careful planning and implementation to accomplish their intended objectives, according to Kent Weaver of the Brookings Institute.