From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A computer worm is a kind of malware that is able to copy itself, and spread. Unlike a computer virus, this is done without changing files on a computer, and without affecting the boot sector of media. Worms spread over networks, or on removable media like USB flash drives. 
1 Worms: Worms are very similar to viruses in that they are computer programs that replicate functional copies of themselves (usually to other computer systems via network connections) and often, but not always, contain some functionality that will interfere with the normal use of a computer or a program. 
Worms. A worm is a computer program that has the ability to copy itself from machine to machine. Worms use up computer processing time and network bandwidth when they replicate, and often carry payloads that do considerable damage. A worm called Code Red made huge headlines in 2001. Experts predicted that this worm could clog the Internet so effectively that things would completely grind to a halt.
1 Scan the computer with antivirus software. 2  If the scan detects a computer worm or other malware, use the software to remove malware and clean or delete infected files. 3  A scan that detects no malware is usually indicative that symptoms are being caused by hardware or software problems. 1 If the scan detects a computer worm or other malware, use the software to remove malware and clean or delete infected files. 2
Computer worms are among the most common types of malware. They spread over computer networks by exploiting operating system vulnerabilities. Worms typically cause harm to their host networks by consuming bandwidth and overloading web servers. Computer worms can also contain “payloads” that damage host computers. 1 If the scan detects a computer worm or other malware, use the software to remove malware and clean or delete infected files. 2  A scan that detects no malware is usually indicative that symptoms are being caused by hardware or software problems.
A computer worm is a self-replicating computer program that penetrates an operating system with the intent of spreading malicious code. Worms utilize networks to send copies of the original code to other computers, causing harm by consuming bandwidth or possibly deleting files or sending documents via email. Worms can also install backdoors on computers. Worms are often confused with computer viruses; the difference lies in how they spread. Computer worms self-replicate and spread across networks, exploiting vulnerabilities, automatically; that is, they don’t need a cybercriminal’s guidance, nor do they need to latch onto another computer program
The security threat from worms is equivalent to that of viruses. Computer worms are skilled enough to do serious damage such as destroying crucial files in a system, slowing a system down to a large degree, or even causing some critical programs to stop working. A virus is dependent upon the host file or boot sector and the transfer of files between computers to spread, whereas a computer worm can execute completely independently and spread on its own accord through network connections.
Computer Worms. Computer worms are programs that reproduce, execute independently, and travel across network connections. The key difference between a virus and worm is the manner in which each reproduces and spreads. A virus is dependent upon the host file or boot sector and the transfer of files between computers to spread, whereas a computer worm can execute completely independently and spread on its own accord through
Spread of Conficker worm. A computer worm is a standalone malware computer program that replicates itself in order to spread to other computers. Often, it uses a computer network to spread itself, relying on security failures on the target computer to access it. Unlike a computer virus, it does not need to attach itself to an existing program. 