1 Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 4  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 1 It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 2  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 3  Ins
Fiber is commonly classified as soluble, which dissolves in water, or insoluble, which doesn't dissolve. 1  Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 1 It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 2  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 3  Ins
We gain no nutrients or energy from fibre, it holds no calories as it is not digested, but passes through our digestive systems. Fibre or ‘roughage’ does, however, provide an important function in the body; it is essential to a well-tuned digestive system and can help the body remove potentially harmful waste. Nutritionists usually recommend that people increase their intake of high fibre foods. 1 Fibre is useful for maintaining healthy colon function and high fibre diets may help prevent colon cancer. 2  People who eat a lot of fibre are more likely to be slimmer and less likely to put weight on than those who eat less fibre.
Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. Consistent intake of fermentable fiber through foods like berries and other fresh fruit, vegetables, whole grains, seeds, and nuts is now known to reduce risk of some of the world’s most prevalent diseases — obesity, diabetes, high blood cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, and numerous gastrointestinal disorders.
Good sources of soluble fiber include beans, lentils, oatmeal, peas, citrus fruits, blueberries, apples and barley. Good sources of insoluble fiber include foods with whole-wheat flour, wheat bran, brown rice, cauliflower, potatoes, tomatoes and cucumbers. Dietary fiber is a plant-based nutrient that is sometimes called roughage or bulk. It is a type of carbohydrate but, unlike other carbs, it cannot be broken down into digestible sugar molecules. Therefore, fiber passes through the intestinal tract relatively intact. However, on its journey, fiber does a lot of work.
Fiber or fibre (from the Latin fibra) is a natural or synthetic string used as a component of composite materials, or, when matted into sheets, used to make products such as paper, papyrus, or felt. Fibers are often used in the manufacture of other materials. 
The main function of fibre is to keep the digestive system healthy and functioning properly. Fibre aids and speeds up the excretion of waste and toxins from the body, preventing them from sitting in the intestine or bowel for too long, which could cause a build-up and lead to several diseases. 
Fibre is an important part of a healthy balanced diet. It can help prevent heart disease, diabetes, weight gain and some cancers, and can also improve digestive health. However, many people don't get enough fibre. On average, most people in the UK get about 18g of fibre a day. Soluble fibre can be digested by your body. It may help to reduce the amount of cholesterol in your blood. If you have constipation, gradually increasing sources of soluble fibre – such as fruit and vegetables, oats and golden linseeds – can help soften your stools and make them easier to pass.
1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  Insoluble fiber. 1 It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 2  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 3
Soluble fibre is the soft fibre that helps control blood glucose (sugar) and reduces cholesterol. It also helps in managing diarrhea. Soluble fibre is present in oat bran, oatmeal, legumes (dried beans and lentils) and fruits such as apples and strawberries. Insoluble fibre is the bulky fibre that helps to prevent constipation. It also helps to prevent some types of cancers. It is present in wheat bran, whole grain breads and cereals, fruits and vegetables. 