Cordarone (amiodarone HCl) is a member of a class of antiarrhythmic drugs with predominantly Class III (Vaughan Williams' classification) effects, available for oral administration as pink, scored tablets containing 200 mg of amiodarone hydrochloride. Cordarone is a benzofuran derivative: 2-butyl-3 benzofuranyl 4-[2-(diethylamino)-ethoxy]-3,5-diiodophenyl ketone hydrochloride. The structural formula is as follows: Amiodarone HCl is a white to cream-colored crystalline powder. It is slightly soluble in water, soluble in alcohol, and freely soluble in chloroform.
3 Reviews. Amiodarone, sold under the brand names Cordarone, Nexterone or Pacerone, is a medication used-sometimes in emergency situations-to treat irregular heartbeats or arrhythmias. Heart arrhythmias can occur in conditions such as ventricular arrhythmias, atrial fibrillation (AF), or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (thickening of the walls of the heart). Amiodarone may also be prescribed off-label for children to help treat irregular heartbeat.
Uses of This Medicine. Amiodarone is used to treat life-threatening heart rhythm problems called ventricular arrhythmias. This medicine is used in patients who have already been treated with other medicines that did not work. Amiodarone belongs to the group of medicines known as antiarrhythmics
Cordarone is a medicine used in adults to treat life-threatening heartbeat problems called. ventricular arrhythmias, for which other treatment did not work or was not tolerated. Cordarone. Tablets have not been shown to help people with life-threatening heartbeat problems live longer. The dose of Cordarone Tablets you take has been specially chosen for you by your doctor. and may change during treatment. Keep taking your medicine until your doctor tells you. to stop. Do not stop taking it because you feel better. Your condition may get worse. Talk. with your doctor if you have side effects.
Amiodarone is a class III antiarrhythmic agent used for various types of cardiac dysrhythmias, both ventricular and atrial. It was discovered in 1961. Despite relatively common side-effects, it is used in arrhythmias that are otherwise difficult to treat with medication. The original observation that amiodarone's progenitor molecule, khellin, had cardioactive properties, was made by the Russian physiologist Gleb von Anrep while working in Cairo. Khellin is obtained from a plant extract of Khella or Ammi visnaga, a common plant in north Africa.
Uses. This medication is used to treat certain types of serious (possibly fatal) irregular heartbeat (such as persistent ventricular fibrillation/ tachycardia). It is used to restore normal heart rhythm and maintain a regular, steady heartbeat. Amiodarone is known as an anti-arrhythmic drug. A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Cordarone sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. Cordarone is a benzofuran derivative: 2-butyl-3 benzofuranyl 4-[2-(diethylamino)-ethoxy]-3,5-diiodophenyl ketone hydrochloride. The structural formula is as follows: Amiodarone HCl is a white to cream-colored crystalline powder. It is slightly soluble in water, soluble in alcohol, and freely soluble in chloroform.
A: Amiodarone (Cordarone) is an antiarrhythmic drug used to keep the heart beating normally in patients with life-threatening heart rhythm disorders of the ventricles (lower chambers of the heart). Heart arrhythmias can occur in conditions such as ventricular arrhythmias, atrial fibrillation (AF), or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (thickening of the walls of the heart). Amiodarone may also be prescribed off-label for children to help treat irregular heartbeat.