Register To Vote. To vote in Texas, you must be registered. Simply pick up a voter registration application, fill it out, and mail it at least 30 days before the election date. Get your application here. To confirm your voter registration status, you may select one of three methods to perform a search: 1  Your Texas driver’s license number, if you provided it when you applied for voter registration; 2  Your Voter Unique Identifier (VUID), which appears on your voter registration certificate; 3  Your first and last name.
- Mike Sullivan, Tax Assessor-Collector. To vote in a Harris County election, you must be registered to vote at least 30 days before the election date. To change your name or address, a completed and signed application is also required. If you are currently living in Harris County but are registered to vote in another county, you must be registered to vote in Harris County at least 30 days prior to Election Day in order to vote in Harris County.
Informal Online Application. You may fill out a voter registration application online, print it and mail it to the voter registrar in your county of residence. You are not registered until you have filled out the online application, printed it, and mailed it to your local County Voter Registrar. Other Voter Registration Application Methods. 1  You may request a postage-paid application by filling out this form so that a voter registration application can be mailed to you. 2  You must mail the voter registration application
Voter Registration Check. To find out if you are registered to vote in Bexar County, enter the information above using the tips listed below to assist you. Date of Birth (mm/dd/yyyy) House Number. 1  Enter date of birth and only your house number. 1 If you are a registered voter, but the combination of birth date and house number didn't find a match, try using the house number of a previous address. 2  It may be that you need to update your voter registration record with more current information.
Some county elections officials allow you to check the status of your voter registration through their website, by telephone, or both. To find out if you are currently registered to vote in your county, click on the appropriate link below or call the phone number listed for the county elections office. For further information about the elections services provided in your county, visit our County Elections offices page.
1 Contact the Voter Registrar in your new Texas county or request an application from the Texas Secretary of State. 2  Your voter registration will automatically be cancelled when you register in another county in Texas. 3  Cancel your voter registration in Travis County if you are moving outside of Texas. 
Voter Registration Check. To find out if you are registered to vote in Bexar County, enter the information above using the tips listed below to assist you. Date of Birth (mm/dd/yyyy) House Number. 1  Enter date of birth and only your house number. Where Do I Vote. To find out where to vote on Election Da
Find Your Polling Place. Many states offer online services that can help you look up your local voting site. Others list contact information for local election officials, who are trained to help you find your polling place. Select your place of residence in the drop down menu. You may be eligible to vote prior to the election as an absentee or early voter. State laws vary greatly, so be sure to pay attention to the information provided by your election officials, or contact your local election office for help.