By Eric Reuter. Tags: white snakeroot, goats, dairy goats, toxic substances, livestock, Eric Reuter, Missouri. Homestead dairy herds can encounter a wide variety of poisonous plants, but few have the potential to be as troublesome or frightening as white snakeroot (Ageratina altissima, formerly Eupatorium rugosum).
White snakeroot poisoning: White snakeroot is a herbaceous plant which is found mainly growing in the wild in the US and has round clusters of small white flowers.
Later the flowers are replaced in the heads by small black seeds each with a crown of soft white hairs. Because the leaves of white snakeroot resemble those of the nettle, other plants with nettle-like leaves are often mistaken for it. Two such plants are the nettle-leaved sage and the nettle-leaved vervain. Even without flowers or fruit, these plants can be easily distinguished from white snakeroot.
White snakeroot contains the toxin tremetol, which can be poisonous if consumed directly or second-hand. When snakeroot is consumed by cattle, the animals' beef and milk become contaminated with the toxin, and ingesting those substances can lead to a condition called milk sickness. Abraham Lincoln's mother, Nancy Hanks, reportedly died after swallowing snakeroot-contaminated milk.
1 The apparent toxic principle in white snakeroot has been given the trivial name tremetol. 2  It has been described as a fat-soluble, high molecular weight alcohol. 3  Crude tremetol, was later shown to be separable into a toxic ketone fraction (61%) (tested in goldfish) and a nontoxic sterol fraction (39%).
All grazing animals can be affected by white snakeroot, and the toxin passes in the milk, so nursing animals and humans are also at risk. CLASS OF SIGNS: Trembling, sweating, depression, stiff gait, heart failure, jaundice, toxic milk, death (may be sudden).
Toxic principle. 1  The apparent toxic principle in white snakeroot has been given the trivial name tremetol. 2  It has been described as a fat-soluble, high molecular weight alcohol. 3  Crude tremetol, was later shown to be separable into a toxic ketone fraction (61%) (tested in goldfish) and a nontoxic sterol fraction (39%).
Cyanogenetic Containing Plant-White snakeroot grows from fibrous, matted roots as a smooth, erect, perennial herb 1 to 3 feet high with opposite, oval, pointed-tipped leaves with sharply-toothed edges. The upper surfaces of the leaves are dull, the lower surfaces shiny with three prominent main veins.