Term life insurance. Term life insurance is designed to provide financial protection for a specific period of time, such as 10 or 20 years. Typically, premiums are level and guaranteed for that time. After that period, policies may offer continued coverage, usually at a substantially higher premium rate. A life insurance policy is a contract with an insurance company. In exchange for premiums (payments), the insurance company provides a lump-sum payment, known as a death benefit, to beneficiaries in the event of the insured's death.
Term life insurance or term assurance is life insurance that provides coverage at a fixed rate of payments for a limited period of time, the relevant term. The simplest form of term life insurance is for a term of one year. The death benefit would be paid by the insurance company if the insured died during the one year term, while no benefit is paid if the insured dies one day after the last day of the one year term.
By Barry Higgins AAA |. A: Term insurance is a type of life insurance policy that provides coverage for a certain period of time, or a specified term of years. If the insured dies during the time period specified in the policy and the policy is active-or in force-then a death benefit will be paid. Term insurance is initially much less expensive when compared to permanent life insurance. Unlike most types of permanent insurance, term insurance has no cash value.
Term life insurance is often the most affordable coverage because it offers protection for a specific number of years. You may want to purchase a term life insurance policy to: 1  Get valuable coverage at an affordable price. 2  Help cover specific financial responsibilities like a mortgage or college expenses. 3  Supplement a permanent policy or work policy
It gives you all the coverage you need and none that you don't. That's why it's the best choice for almost everyone. As the name implies, a term insurance policy is good for a specific period of time; that can be one year, 10 years, 20 years or even up to 30 years. Given that you generally need life insurance only until you've managed to save up money elsewhere, just pick the term that dovetails with the time you need coverage. 
If the life insured dies during the term, the death benefit will be paid to the beneficiary. Term insurance is the least expensive way to purchase a substantial death benefit on a coverage amount per premium dollar basis over a specific period of time. The simplest form of term life insurance is for a term of one year. The death benefit would be paid by the insurance company if the insured died during the one year term, while no benefit is paid if the insured dies one day after the last day of the one year term.
Term life insurance is coverage that lasts for a limited period of time, anywhere from 10 to 30 years (Opens Pop-up Layer) . During this term your payments and coverage are guaranteed to remain the same. Typically, a term policy will only pay out if you die during the term. Our term life insurance policies offer 10, 15, 
Term insurance is a type of life insurance policy that provides coverage for a certain period of time, or a specified term ... Once the policy is expired, it is up to the policy owner to decide whether to renew the term life insurance policy or to let the coverage end. This type of insurance policy contrasts with permanent life insurance, in which duration extends until the policy owner reaches 100 years of age (i.e. death). Next Up.
DEFINITION of 'Term Life Insurance'. A policy with a set duration limit on the coverage period. Once the policy is expired, it is up to the policy owner to decide whether to renew the term life insurance policy or to let the coverage end. This type of insurance policy contrasts with permanent life insurance, in which duration extends until the policy owner reaches 100 years of age (i.e. death). Next Up.