1 The group of alligators is called congregation. 2  The largest American alligator ever observed was measured at 19.8 feet (6 meters) but there is little evidence to support this argument. 3  Alligators are generally solitary and territorial species. Here are some of the most informative American alligator facts such as American alligator diet, habitat, reproduction, and behavior. The American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) , also known as common alligator, is a large crocodilian reptile that is native to the Southeastern United States.
A male alligator is known as a bull, a female alligator is called a cow, and baby alligators are referred to as hatchlings. Large male alligators prefer to live alone and are very defensive over their territories. 
An alligator is a crocodilian in the genus Alligator of the family Alligatoridae. The two living species are the American alligator (A. mississippiensis) and the Chinese alligator (A. sinensis). In addition, several extinct species of alligator are known from fossil remains. The largest ever recorded, found in Louisiana, measured 5.84 m (19.2 ft). The Chinese alligator is smaller, rarely exceeding 2.1 m (6.9 ft) in length. In addition, it weighs considerably less, with males rarely over 45 kg. No average lifespan for an alligator has been measured.
1 The average lifespan of American alligators is 35 to 50 years. 2  The group of alligators is called congregation. 3  The largest American alligator ever observed was measured at 19.8 feet (6 meters) but there is little evidence to support this argument. 4  Alligators are generally solitary and territorial species. Here are some of the most informative American alligator facts such as American alligator diet, habitat, reproduction, and behavior. The American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) , also known as common alligator, is a large crocodilian reptile that is native to the Southeastern United States.
An average adult American alligator's weight and length is 360 kg (790 lb) and 4.0 m (13.1 ft), but they sometimes grow to 4.4 m (14 ft) long and weigh over 450 kg (990 lb). The largest ever recorded, found in Louisiana, measured 5.84 m (19.2 ft). The Chinese alligator is smaller, rarely exceeding 2.1 m (6.9 ft) in length. In addition, it weighs considerably less, with males rarely over 45 kg. No average lifespan for an alligator has been measured.
The American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), sometimes referred to colloquially as a gator or common alligator, is a large crocodilian reptile endemic to the southeastern United States. American alligators are less vulnerable to cold than American crocodiles. Unlike a crocodile, which would immediately succumb to the cold and drown in water of 45 °F (7.2 °C), an alligator can survive in such temperatures for some time without displaying any signs of discomfort.
At the Zoo, the American alligator is fed rats and occasionally chickens and rabbits. American alligators may live to about 50 years in the wild. After it is four feet long, an alligator is safe from predators except humans and occasionally other alligators. All or part of this information was provided by the Animal Diversity Web and Museum of Zoology of the University of Michigan. After two to three years, they leave that area in search of food, or are driven out by larger alligators. One interesting aspect of alligator biology is that they undergo periods of dormancy when the weather is cold. They excavate a depression called a “gator hole” along a waterway and use it during dormancy.
It is one of two living species in the genus Alligator within the family Alligatoridae; it is larger than the other extant alligator species, the Chinese alligator. Adult male American alligators measure up to 3.4 to 4.6 m (11 to 15 ft) in length, and can weigh up to 453 kg (999 lb). American alligators are less vulnerable to cold than American crocodiles. Unlike a crocodile, which would immediately succumb to the cold and drown in water of 45 °F (7.2 °C), an alligator can survive in such temperatures for some time without displaying any signs of discomfort.
Taxonomy. The average size for an adult female American alligator is 8.2 feet (2.6 m), and the average size for a male is 11.2 feet (3.4 m). Exceptionally large males can reach a weight of nearly half a ton or 1,000 pounds. After two to three years, they leave that area in search of food, or are driven out by larger alligators. One interesting aspect of alligator biology is that they undergo periods of dormancy when the weather is cold. They excavate a depression called a “gator hole” along a waterway and use it during dormancy.
The largest American alligator ever reported was supposedly 19.8 ft (6 m) long, although there are doubts about the claim. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The American alligator is a rare success story of an endangered animal not only saved from extinction but now thriving. 