Overview. Because carrots need cool weather, you must get the seeds into the ground as soon as the soil warms to 50 degrees F. At this temperature the carrot seeds will germinate within 10 days, according to the World Carrot Museum. At higher soil temperatures they may take up to 30 days or longer to sprout. An additional crop can be planted in late summer or early fall in cooler regions of the country
Learn When to Plant Carrots. In the spring, sow carrot seeds in fertile, well-worked soil about two weeks before your last frost date. In cool climates, continue planting every three weeks until midsummer. In summer, begin sowing seeds for fall and winter carrots 10 to 12 weeks before your average first fall frost.
They require consistently moist soil and sometimes two weeks or more for germination. Dry or windy weather can mean slow or no germination for carrots. Carrots, parsnips, and parsley take 14 to 21 days to germinate; that means you must keep the seed bed evenly moist for up to three weeks or longer. The sprouts will grow uniform in height and produce a crop two weeks earlier than if you had sown seed directly in the planting bed. Most carrot varieties take 70 to 80 days from sowing to harvest. The best time to grow carrots is in the cool times of the year—spring or fall.
The one thing that seemed to make a lot of sense was getting your carrot seeds to germinate PRIOR to planting them. I sussed out a few methods and decided on this one. You need squares of cardboard, carrot seeds, and paper towels. Place a very damp paper towel on a piece of cardboard (or anything else sturdy). Place your carrot seeds 2 inches apart across the whole paper towel until it’s covered. You’ll plant about 20-25 seeds per paper towel. Since I plant a lot of carrot varieties, I label each board to know what’s what. Cover with another wet paper towel. As soon as the seeds have germinated and have a tiny root on them you can take the piece of cardboard and paper towel outside. Carefully slip the paper towel off of the cardboard and onto your (very well dug) garden soil. Cover with a 1/4 or less of compost or vermiculite.
Carrot seeds can take up to 15 days to germinate. Keep the soil moist until seedlings appear. To prevent the soil from crusting over and making it difficult for the seeds to sprout, you can plant the carrot seeds with radish seeds, which will sprout first and loosen the soil. 
Two Ways to Pre-Sprout Carrot Seeds. 1. Boiling water method. Sprinkle seed across a tray of sterile potting soil or seed starting mix (you can also use peat moss, peat moss and sand or vermiculite). Pour very warm or just boiling water over the seed. The sprouts will grow uniform in height and produce a crop two weeks earlier than if you had sown seed directly in the planting bed. Most carrot varieties take 70 to 80 days from sowing to harvest. The best time to grow carrots is in the cool times of the year—spring or fall.
Once seeds germinate, tiny carrots grow quickly, producing slender, pale roots that thicken and deepen in color as they mature. Some varieties mature in as few as 50 days, but many require 75 to 90 days to reach maturity. Young carrots can be harvested and eaten fresh, as soon as the roots swell. Step 5. Plant carrot seeds to a depth of 1/4 inch, spaced 2 inches apart. Cover lightly with soil and firm down with your hands. Water with the mist attachment to your garden hose to moisten the soil. Keep the soil moist until seedlings emerge in seven to 21 days, depending on the soil temperature and weather conditions
Carrot seeds take a while to germinate and they like even moisture during the process. This can be a bit of a chore since they are very small and are sowed very close to the surface where the soil dries out quicker. You can water your carrots twice a day to keep the top of the soil damp. 