By ruptured bowels, I assume you are referring to perforation of the bowel, a catastrophic event which can complicate many different illnesses. Interestingly, irritable bowel syndrome is probably one of the few conditions which does not lead to perforation of the bowel. 
Gastrointestinal perforation (GP) occurs when a hole forms all the way through the stomach, large bowel, or small intestine. It might be caused by a number of different diseases, including appendicitis, diverticulitis, or by trauma from a knife wound. A perforation may also occur in the gallbladder. The contents of these organs are then able to spill over into the abdominal cavity. A hole in your gastrointestinal system can lead to peritonitis. Peritonitis is inflammation of the membrane that lines the abdominal cavity.
Intestinal Rupture. Intestinal Rupture is a medical emergency that may lead to sepsis, a severe response to bacteria or other germs that is life threatening and may be life quality compromising, particularly when left untreated or if the individual is not responsive to timely treatment.
Perforation. A perforation is a hole in the wall of the digestive tract. A perforation may occur anywhere in the digestive tract and may occur when: 1  A crater-shaped sore (ulcer) erodes through the wall of the stomach or a section of intestine. 2  An infection in the appendix erodes through the wall of the appendix.
Definition. Colon perforation is a hole in the wall of the colon. The colon is the end of the intestines also known as the large intestine. A perforation may be a puncture, cut, or tear. The opening allows air and intestinal material to leak into the abdominal cavity. The material can lead to a serious infecti
Symptoms of a ruptured bowel include:-. * Extreme abdominal pain; * Distention (swelling of the stomach); * Fever; * Nausea; * Bowel changes (such as constipation, diahorrea, or blood in the stool.) . Diagnosis and Treatment Of A Ruptured Bowel. A ruptured bowel is usually diagnosed by an X-Ray or a CT scan which shows the air that has escaped into the peritoneal cavity. Once diagnosis has been confirmed, the rupture must be treated immediately. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gastrointestinal perforation is a complete penetration of any part of the wall of the gastrointestinal tract, which lines the stomach, small intestine or large bowel, resulting in intestinal contents flowing into the abdominal cavity. Perforation of the stomach can lead to a chemical peritonitis due to leaked gastric acid. Perforation anywhere along the gastrointestinal tract is a surgical emergency.
A person with a perforated bowel has a hole in the wall of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine. The perforated bowel allows food or stool to leak into the abdomen. The food or stool causes severe inflammation of the inside of the abdomen, called peritonitis. Causes of perforated bowel include abdominal injury, inflammatory bowel disease, peptic ulcer disease, colorectal cancer, and diverticulitis.
Causes of A Ruptured Bowel. The most common causes of a bowel rupture is a penatration injury, such as during surgery or through a knife wound. However, crushing injuries which can occur during car accidents or other accidents can also cause a bowel to rupture. All of this is caused because when the bowel is ruptured it allows food or faeces to leak from the bowel into the abdomen or for air to seep into the abdominal cavity. This can lead to severe inflammation and infection of the abdomen which rapidly can spread and become serious or even fatal if not diagnosed and treated.