The simple answer is that it is worm poop. Also called worm manure, worm humus or worm compost, this amazingly rich soil amendment and fertilizer is becoming more popular than ever, and for good reason. 
Composting with worms It's simple. The worms are kept in a bin with shredded paper or other biodegradable bedding. You feed them food waste. They digest the waste and bedding then excrete nutrient-rich castings. After a few months, the castings combined with the well-decomposed bedding, become vermicompost -- one of the richest soil improvements around. The best worms for vermicomposting are redworms. The redworm (Eisenia foetida or Lumbricus rubellus) also known as: red wiggler, manure worm, red hybrid, striped worm, fish worm. Whatever it's called, the redworm is the worm capable of reproducing quickly in captivity, while chomping copious quantities of
Worm composting is using worms to recycle food scraps and other organic material into a valuable soil amendment called vermicompost, or worm compost. Worms eat food scraps, which become compost as they pass through the worm's body. Compost exits the worm through its' tail end. Worms can live for about one year in the worm bin. If a worm dies in your bin, you probably will not notice it. Since the worm's body is about 90% water, it will shrivel up and become part of the compost rather quickly.
Earthworms produce waste called Castings. Castings are excellent fertilizer.   These castings are also known as worm humus or worm manure or, more correctly, vermicast. T … hey are particularly rich in nitrogen, phosphate, calcium, and magnesium. 10 people found this useful. 
Rotary screen harvested vermicompost, composed of worm castings. Vermicompost is the product or process of composting using various worms, usually red wigglers, white worms, and other earthworms to create a heterogeneous mixture of decomposing vegetable or food waste, bedding materials, and vermicast. 
Using red worms for composting, also called vermiculture composting, is the process of using red worms to decompose organic yard and food waste, turning the waste into a natural fertilizer called wormpoop or wormpoop castings. Worm composting to gardening composting is a very small jump and, in fact, you will get much faster results with red worms helping to bring you sustainable soil structure management and rich nutrient soil. We have red worms for sale that will make household waste composting easy.
Composting with worms (also called vermicomposting) is usually done with the common red wiggler worm (Eisenia fetida). This worm’s specialized digestive system converts food waste and other organic materials to a nutrient-rich compost called vermicast or worm castings. It thrives in an aerobic (with air) environment. The Worms Worm biology and other important facts The most effective worm for vermicomposting in a bin is the red wiggler worm (Eisenia fetida), also known as manure worm, red worm, or tiger worm. In nature, red wiggler worms are specialized surface dwellers (epigeic).
Worms are necessary to help produce top soil. Worms help the environment by decomposing organic material (food and yard waste) turning it into a natural rich organic soil amendment. The end result is called vermicompost, wormpoop,or worm castings. Red Worms or (Eisenia fetida) are the best type of worm for eating food waste. These worms are surface worms and stay in the top 18 inches of the soil. It is usually best to keep them in a closed container so you can keep the process going. Every three months the worms should be harvested separated from the
Containers. When choosing a container in which to compost with worms, you should keep in mind the amount of food scraps you wish to compost, and where the bin will be located. A good size bin for the classroom is a 5- to 10- gallon box or approximately 24 X 18 X 8. Worms can live for about one year in the worm bin. If a worm dies in your bin, you probably will not notice it. Since the worm's body is about 90% water, it will shrivel up and become part of the compost rather quickly.