Spinal stenosis is a degenerative back disorder resulting from the normal wear and tear on the spine that usually occurs with age. One of the most common back conditions, spinal stenosis affects about five of every 1,000 Americans by the time they are in their mid-fifties. The result is pain, numbness, and weakness in the lower half of the body. While some patients have a constant degree of back pain, spinal stenosis mainly results in aching of the buttocks, back of the thighs, calves and shins, and sometimes the feet.
Spinal stenosis is an abnormal narrowing (stenosis) of the spinal canal that may occur in any of the regions of the spine. This narrowing causes a restriction to the spinal canal, resulting in a neurological deficit. Symptoms include pain, numbness, paraesthesia, and loss of motor control. In lumbar stenosis, the spinal nerve roots in the lower back are compressed which can lead to symptoms of sciatica (tingling, weakness, or numbness that radiates from the low back and into the buttocks and legs). Cervical spinal stenosis can be far more dangerous by compressing the spinal cord.
This causes the lumbar spinal canal and nerve exit sites to narrow. The result is pain, numbness, and weakness in the lower half of the body. While some patients have a constant degree of back pain, spinal stenosis mainly results in aching of the buttocks, back of the thighs, calves and shins, and sometimes the feet. Patients usually develop pain or aching first, and eventually experience numbness and weakness in these areas
Neuromuscular Disease. A neuromuscular disease is a disorder that affects the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system includes muscles, the nerve-muscle (neuromuscular) junction, peripheral nerves in the limbs, and the motor-nerve cells in the spinal cord. Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a genetic neuromuscular disease that attacks nerve cells, called motor neurons, in the spinal cord. These cells communicate with your voluntary muscles – the ones you can control, like in your arms and legs. As the neurons die, the muscles weaken.
Spinal Stenosis. A narrowing of the open spaces within the spine is called spinal stenosis. It can put pressure on the spinal cord and the nerves that travel through the spine. Spinal stenosis occurs most often in the neck and lower back. The narrowing may involve a small or large area of the spine. Spinal stenosis is most commonly caused by wear-and-tear changes in the spine related to aging.
With spinal stenosis, the spinal canal is narrowed at the vertebral canal, which is a foramen between the vertebrae where the spinal cord (in the cervical or thoracic spine) or nerve roots (in the lumbar spine) pass through. In lumbar stenosis, the spinal nerve roots in the lower back are compressed which can lead to symptoms of sciatica (tingling, weakness, or numbness that radiates from the low back and into the buttocks and legs). Cervical spinal stenosis can be far more dangerous by compressing the spinal cord.
Neuromuscular Scoliosis. Neuromuscular Scoliosis is the curvature of the spine with a disorder of the neurological system such as cerebral palsy, spina bifida, or muscular dystrophy or spinal cord injuries. Most of these patients have a weakness of the trunk. The curvature of the spine is progressive, and worsens during growth spurts. Your Diagnosis. Neuromuscular Scoliosis is the curvature of the spine with a disorder of the neurological system such as cerebral palsy, spina bifida, or muscular dystrophy or spinal cord injuries.
Other spinal cord or brain diseases are not considered “neuromuscular” diseases. Patients with neuromuscular diseases can have weakness, loss of muscle bulk, muscle twitching, cramping, numbness, tingling, and a host of other symptoms. Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a genetic neuromuscular disease that attacks nerve cells, called motor neurons, in the spinal cord. These cells communicate with your voluntary muscles – the ones you can control, like in your arms and legs. As the neurons die, the muscles weaken.
Other Information. Neuromuscular Scoliosis is the curvature of the spine with a disorder of the neurological system such as cerebral palsy, spina bifida, or muscular dystrophy or spinal cord injuries. Most of these patients have a weakness of the trunk. The curvature of the spine is progressive, and worsens during growth spurts. Your Diagnosis. Neuromuscular Scoliosis is the curvature of the spine with a disorder of the neurological system such as cerebral palsy, spina bifida, or muscular dystrophy or spinal cord injuries.