Classifying wood as either a hardwood or softwood comes down to its physical structure and makeup, and so it is overly simple to think of hardwoods as being hard and durable compared to soft and workable softwoods.
Softwood is also used in the production of paper, and for various types of board such as MDF (medium-density fiberboard). The finer softwoods have many special uses. they are used for making window frames,doors,frames,t.v. stands,flooring and beds.
Softwood is just normal wood from a tree, but it's only wood from certain types of trees. All the pine and fir trees are softwood trees (conifers) and the leafy trees like oak … s and maples (deciduous) are hardwood trees.
When comparing hardwood vs softwood it's important to understand that all firewood is not equal. Specific burning characteristics like heat generation, coaling qualities and lighting ability should all play a role in deciding which type of firewood will work best for you.
Softwood timber, which is used for softwood decking comes from faster growing, evergreen or coniferous trees. Commonly used hardwoods for decking are: ipe, teak, iroko and cumaru. The most commonly used softwood for decking is pine.
As it turns out, a hardwood is not necessarily a harder material (more dense) and a softwood is not necessarily a softer material (less dense). For example, balsa wood is one of the lightest, least dense woods there is, and it's considered a hardwood.
Examples are Pine, Fir, Spruce, Larch, Cedar and the Giant Redwood. Remember, the terms softwoods and hardwoods are used to describe the leaves, seeds and structure of the trees. It is NOT used to describe the type of wood produced. For example, balsa is light and very soft to use.
Softwood is just normal wood from a tree, but it's only wood from certain types of trees. All the pine and fir trees are softwood trees (conifers) and the leafy trees like oak … s and maples (deciduous) are hardwood trees.
used for making stuff like childrens toys etc Softwood has a huge range of applications: it is the primary material used for building components, and is also found in furnitu … re and other products such as millwork (mouldings, doors, windows).