A: Ideally, the temperature should be in the suggested range and above the dew point for at least 48 hours after application. Colder temperatures and moisture on the surface will not allow a paint film to form properly. A common mistake is to paint when the daytime high temperature gets above 60° F and the nighttime temperatures get much cooler because dew forms on almost everything as soon as the sun goes down. Even though the temperature was OK at the time of application, the paint can stop coalescing.
A: If you need to paint outside with latex paint when temperatures are moving up and down like a yo-yo, I suggest you use one of the latex like Duration, Resilience, or SuperPaint. A common mistake is to paint when the daytime high temperature gets above 60° F and the nighttime temperatures get much cooler because dew forms on almost everything as soon as the sun goes down. Even though the temperature was OK at the time of application, the paint can stop coalescing.
Take Your Home's Temperature. Before painting, check the weather report for the day's temperature and rain forecast. Ideally, you should only paint on a rain-free day when temperatures are likely to remain steady throughout your paint's expected drying time. But you aren't applying paint to the air, you're painting a home's walls.
When considering the expense to have the exterior painted, it is better to be safe than sorry. If you know the temp is going to be hovering in the below-40-degree mark for several days, and not much sun peaking through, think twice about having that project started. It is always recommended to do your own research depending on how extensive the job is, what type of paint your contractor is using, and the color change, if there is one. Be careful not to let the painting contractor rush you into painting your exterior based on his/her timeline.
Painting in Cold Weather. When using low-temp acrylics, one of the biggest challenges is being careful about temperature drops. It’s important that the acrylic paint is cured before being exposed to poor conditions. Low-temp paint can be used in temperatures from 35 to 50 degrees. Temperatures need to remain within the manufacturer’s defined range of acceptable temperatures for two to three hours after the exterior house paint has been applied
Painting when the weather is too cold is a mistake that will leave you with unsightly consequences. Most manufacturers instruct homeowners to apply solvent-based paint when ambient and surface temperatures are above 45 degrees F and latex paints when ambient and surface temperatures are at least 50 degrees. As the days grow shorter and the nights grow cooler, you may suddenly realize that you only have a few weeks left to finish your exterior painting projects. However, beware of painting outdoors when the weather turns nippy.
1 Try to do your exterior painting on days when the temperature is between 60° and 85°F. (l5.56°C and 29.4°C) with low or moderate humidity and little or no wind. Vinyl siding is one of the best exterior surfaces to paint. ..and one of the easiest. All you need to do is to clean the siding thoroughly and remove any mildew with a bleach solution, then rinse the surface clean. Be sure that you don't skimp on the quality of paint you use when painting vinyl siding.
It's just too cold for the paint to cure. And if you do try, you may find that the paint flakes off. Instead, this is the time for interior painting. Pro painters in Ohio and Illinois conservatively block off the entire mid-October to end-of-March period as verboten for exterior painting. Paint isn't happy when temps during the day are 105 degrees and then suddenly drop down to 43 degrees in the evening and night. For that reason, early Fall can be a good time of the year in your location to paint. Daytime and nighttime temperatures are often closer than during other times of the year.
The paint has to have a surface temp to enable it to cure properly. That being said, if there is rain in the forecast, make sure to cease the painting if there is not ample time to allow each coat to dry at least 4-6 hours. It is always recommended to do your own research depending on how extensive the job is, what type of paint your contractor is using, and the color change, if there is one. Be careful not to let the painting contractor rush you into painting your exterior based on his/her timeline.