noun. 1  the condition or quality of being resonant. 2  sound produced by a body vibrating in sympathy with a neighbouring source of sound. 3  the condition of a body or system when it is subjected to a periodic disturbance of the same frequency as the natural frequency of the body or system. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3  the condition or quality of being resonant. 4  sound produced by a body vibrating in sympathy with a neighbouring source of sound. 5  the condition of a body or system when it is subjected to a periodic disturbance of the same frequency as the natural frequency of the body or system.
When resonance occurs, the frequency is often called a resonant frequency. This is just saying that resonance occurs when the driving force has the same value as one of the natural frequencies.A beam can have more than one natural frequency, and therefore can be made to resonate at more than one frequency. It breaks. So, the resonance frequency is the frequency with which some external source must exert a force (swinging legs, sound wave, wind pushing a bridge, etc.) so that each application of the force adds constructively.
This is known as resonance-when one object vibrating at the same natural frequency of a second object forces that second object into vibrational motion. The word resonance comes from Latin and means to resound - to sound out together with a loud sound. When the match is achieved, the tuning fork forces the air column inside of the resonance tube to vibrate at its own natural frequency and resonance is achieved. The result of resonance is always a big vibration-that is,
That swing has a resonance frequency (which is given by the equation for a pendulum). Same thing with a wine glass. If you strike it, you can detect its resonance frequency. If you play a loud noise just like when the opera singers break the glass in the cartoon, the glass will vibrate because of the sound waves. It breaks. So, the resonance frequency is the frequency with which some external source must exert a force (swinging legs, sound wave, wind pushing a bridge, etc.) so that each application of the force adds constructively.
Resonance is a condition in which a vibrating system responds with maximum amplitude to a periodic driving force.Mechanical systems will have a number of possible frequencies at which this occurs. These are the system's natural frequencies of vibration. It breaks. So, the resonance frequency is the frequency with which some external source must exert a force (swinging legs, sound wave, wind pushing a bridge, etc.) so that each application of the force adds constructively.
When damping is small, the resonant frequency is approximately equal to the natural frequency of the system, which is a frequency of unforced vibrations. Some systems have multiple, distinct, resonant frequencies. The exact response of a resonance, especially for frequencies far from the resonant frequency, depends on the details of the physical system, and is usually not exactly symmetric about the resonant frequency, as illustrated for the simple harmonic oscillator above.
1 the condition or quality of being resonant. 2  sound produced by a body vibrating in sympathy with a neighbouring source of sound. 3  the condition of a body or system when it is subjected to a periodic disturbance of the same frequency as the natural frequency of the body or system. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3  the condition or quality of being resonant. 4  sound produced by a body vibrating in sympathy with a neighbouring source of sound. 5  the condition of a body or system when it is subjected to a periodic disturbance of the same frequency as the natural frequency of the body or system.
1 Trends. 2  the condition or quality of being resonant. 3  sound produced by a body vibrating in sympathy with a neighbouring source of sound. 4  the condition of a body or system when it is subjected to a periodic disturbance of the same frequency as the natural frequency of the body or system. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3  the condition or quality of being resonant. 4  sound produced by a body vibrating in sympathy with a neighbouring source of sound. 5  the condition of a body or system when it is subjected to a periodic disturbance of the same frequency as the natural frequency of the body or system.
Frequencies at which the response amplitude is a relative maximum are known as the system's resonant frequencies, or resonance frequencies. At resonant frequencies, small periodic driving forces have the ability to produce large amplitude oscillations. This is because the system stores vibrational energy. The exact response of a resonance, especially for frequencies far from the resonant frequency, depends on the details of the physical system, and is usually not exactly symmetric about the resonant frequency, as illustrated for the simple harmonic oscillator above.