Attention U.S. Expats! Your foreign dividends may be qualified to be taxed at a special lower tax rate. Here’s how you can know if they are: When you receive dividends from a US corporation, your Form 1099 will specify whether they are qualified dividends or not. Qualified dividends are eligible for a much lower tax rate that of ordinary dividends. In order to be considered “qualified”, dividends received must meet three conditions: 1  The dividends must have been paid by a U.S. corporation or a qualified foreign corporation. 2  The dividends are not of those listed under “Dividends that are not qualified dividends”. 3  The holding period requirement is met.
Qualified dividends are the ordinary dividends subject to the same 0%, 15%, or 20% maximum tax rate that applies to net capital gain. They should be shown in box 1b of the Form 1099-DIV you receive. Exempt-interest dividends you receive from a mutual fund or other regulated investment company, including those received from a qualified fund of funds in any tax year beginning after December 22, 2010, are not included in your taxable income. Exempt-interest dividends should be shown in box 10 of Form 1099-DIV.
To be qualified, your dividends must be paid by a U.S. corporation or, if a foreign corporation, a tax treaty must exist between the U.S. and the country of incorporation, or the shares must trade on a U.S. stock exchange. 
The maximum rate of tax on qualified dividends is: 0% on any amount that otherwise would be taxed at a 10% or 15% rate. 15% on any amount that otherwise would be taxed at rates greater than 15% but less than 39.6%. Exempt-interest dividends you receive from a mutual fund or other regulated investment company, including those received from a qualified fund of funds in any tax year beginning after December 22, 2010, are not included in your taxable income. Exempt-interest dividends should be shown in box 10 of Form 1099-DIV.
Dividends received from a corporation are allocations of stock, money or other assets paid to you when you own stock in that corporation. Dividends can also be received from mutual fund investments, an estate, a trust or partnership, or a real estate investment trust (REIT). If there is enough profit left over to pay out dividends to shareholders, the distributions are taxed again to the individual stockholders at their regular tax rates. A C corporation can be taxed at rates as high as 39 percent, as of 2011.
And that dividend (because it's paid out of the C corporation's old profits) is taxed to the shareholders. Under current tax law, the dividend is taxed at a preferential qualified dividends rate, which is 15% or less. 
The Big Difference. A qualified dividend is a type of dividend that is taxed at the capital gains tax rate. Generally speaking, most regular dividends from U.S. companies with normal company structures (corporations) are qualified. For individuals, estates, and trusts, qualified dividends are taxed at the current capital gains rate of 15%. 
Qualified dividend. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Qualified dividends, as defined by the United States Internal Revenue Code, are ordinary dividends that meet specific criteria to be taxed at the lower long-term capital gains tax rate rather than at higher tax rate for an individual's ordinary income. 
Qualified dividends are usually those received from domestic corporations or certain qualified foreign corporations, and, as of 2011, they are taxed at the 15 percent tax rate if your ordinary income rate is 25 percent or higher. If there is enough profit left over to pay out dividends to shareholders, the distributions are taxed again to the individual stockholders at their regular tax rates. A C corporation can be taxed at rates as high as 39 percent, as of 2011.
What is taxable on a dividend depends on the type of dividend you receive. You must report a dividend on your tax return if you can choose to accept either stock or cash and you take the stock. If the dividend can be redeemed for cash immediately, it is taxable. Ordinary dividends, usually received from a corporation or mutual fund, are taxable as ordinary income for you. If there is enough profit left over to pay out dividends to shareholders, the distributions are taxed again to the individual stockholders at their regular tax rates. A C corporation can be taxed at rates as high as 39 percent, as of 2011.