Soy beans are rich in phytoestrogens, a subclass of a group of antioxidants known as isoflavones. The chemical structure of phytoestrogens is very similar to that of the human sex hormone estrogen (phytoestrogen literally means plant estrogen). 
However, because soy contains compounds that are similar to estrogen, a female hormone, some people are hesitant to consume soy products. It appears that the pros of drinking soy milk outweigh any potential cons. Nutrients in Soy Milk. Soy milk is rich in protein, and fortified with some of the same micronutrients found in cow's milk -- such as calcium, vitamin D, riboflavin, phosphorous, vitamin A, and vitamin B-12. The protein in soy milk is high quality protein, comparable to protein in animal foods, notes MedlinePlus. Soy milk is also a source of alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), which is an omega-3 fatty acid your body requires daily to function properly.
Phenolic acid and phytates are antioxidants. Then there are the isoflavones, which are weak phytoestrogens (estrogen-like compounds found in plants). Isoflavone levels vary in different types of tofu and soy milk products. Your body's estrogen is much, much stronger than the estrogen-like isoflavones in soy. So if the weak soy substance replaces the natural high-strength estrogen in cells, then maybe the soy will protect against cancers that would prefer a stronger estrogen signal.
Many brands of soy milk highlight the fact that they contain isoflavones, phytoestrogens that may lower blood cholesterol levels in adults. Soy milk in moderation (1 to 2 cups a day) is a good alternative for children over a year old who won't drink milk, are lactose intolerant, or are allergic to cow's milk. research nutritionist. Soy milk does contain phytoestrogens (an estrogen-like hormone found in plants such as whole grains, potatoes, dried beans, and apples), but there's no scientific evidence to date that drinking soy milk is harmful to children or adults.
Phytoestrogens in Soy Milk. Foods and beverages made from soy contain chemicals called isoflavones. These chemicals have estrogen-like effects on the body, so they are often called phytoestrogens -- that is, estrogen that comes from plants. Photo Credit sasimoto/iStock/Getty Images. Soy milk can be used as a milk replacement for people who are lactose-intolerant or who seek to increase their intake of soy protein. Like all soy products, soy milk has compounds that can mimic the effects of estrogen in the body and affect estrogen levels. It is not clear, however, that increased consumption of soy milk can have any effect on estrogen level
Although soy milk is generally safe for adults, there is the possibility that its ability to either stimulate or block estrogenic signaling could have adverse effects. Young children and developing fetuses may be more vulnerable, due to the importance of estrogen regulation for development. Photo Credit sasimoto/iStock/Getty Images. Soy milk can be used as a milk replacement for people who are lactose-intolerant or who seek to increase their intake of soy protein. Like all soy products, soy milk has compounds that can mimic the effects of estrogen in the body and affect estrogen levels. It is not clear, however, that increased consumption of soy milk can have any effect on estrogen levels
Soybeans contain isoflavones, which are chemically similar to estrogens. Soybeans are a complete protein source and a dietary staple in many cultures. Soy contains phytoestrogens called isoflavones that may mimic the activity of the hormone estrogen in your body. The effects of soy isoflavones on human estrogen levels are complex. Soy is safe for everyone to consume in moderation and can have a modest effect on estrogen level
The following chart is a partiallisting of foods rich in genistein and daidzein, the isoflavones or phytoestrogens found in soy containing foods. So,although they may not do the full job of hormone replacement therapy, they can be a helpful, nutritious, and diseasefighting adjunct to your diet! Soy proteins may also prevent bone loss and inhibitthe growth of both breast and prostate tumors, as well as reduce some menopausal symptoms.Soy is a rich and primary dietary source of the phytoestrogen class known as isoflavones. Isoflavones are present inrelatively large amounts in virtually all soy foods.
Debby Demory-Luce. research nutritionist. Soy milk does contain phytoestrogens (an estrogen-like hormone found in plants such as whole grains, potatoes, dried beans, and apples), but there's no scientific evidence to date that drinking soy milk is harmful to children or adults. People have been drinking soy milk since the 1960s without ill effect