When H. pylori does cause symptoms, they are usually symptoms of gastritis or of peptic ulcer disease. The most common symptom of peptic ulcer disease is gnawing or burning abdominal pain, usually in the area just beneath the ribs. 
H. pylori infection is a common cause of peptic ulcer disease in the United States. Peptic ulcer is a localized area of erosion occurring in the stomach or duodenal (the beginning of the small intestine) lining, resulting in abdominal pain, possible bleeding, and other gastrointestinal symptoms. Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) is the name of a bacteria that can cause peptic ulcers. It can infect the stomach lining, dissolving the mucus film that protects it from the highly acidic stomach contents. This causes a burning pain in the stomach. Helicobacter pylori is the most common human bacterial infection
Most people with H. pylori don’t have any symptoms. When the infection leads to an ulcer, symptoms may include abdominal pain, especially when your stomach is empty at night or a few hours after meals. The pain is usually described as a gnawing pain, and it may come and go. 
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria. These germs can enter your body and live in your digestive tract. After many years, they can cause sores, called ulcers, in the lining of your stomach or the upper part of your small intestine. For some people, an infection can lead to stomach cancer. Infection with H. pylori is common. About two-thirds of the world’s population has it in their bodies. For most people, it doesn’t cause ulcers or any other symptoms. 
Symptoms of H Pylori Bacteria are often tricky to detect. The “classic” symptoms are gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, bloating, heartburn, nausea etc.; and it is the CAUSE of most stomach ulcers. But rarely are the Symptoms of H pylori bacteria of the “classic” type.
Symptoms of an infection of Helicobacter pylori bacteria, gastritis and peptic ulcer can include epigastric pain, and burning in the upper abdomen. Other symptoms can include nausea, vomiting, and pain between the shoulder blades in the back. 
When signs or symptoms do occur with H. pylori infection, they may include: 1  An ache or burning pain in your abdomen. 2  Abdominal pain that's worse when your stomach is empty. 3  Nausea. 4  Loss of appetite. 5  Frequent burping. 6  Bloating. 7  Unintentional weight loss. 
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is the bacteria responsible for most ulcers and many cases of stomach inflammation (chronic gastritis). The bacteria can weaken the protective coating of the stomach, allowing digestive juices to irritate the sensitive stomach lining. 
Helicobacter Pylori (H. pylori) Overview. Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria responsible for widespread infection with more than 50% of the world's population infected, even though most of those infected have no symptoms. The H. pylori bacteria burrow into the cells of the stomach lining and cause low grade inflammation. H. pylori is the most common cause of gastric ulcers and gastritis (gastro=stomach +itis=inflammation).