The INS Vikramaditya, India's second aircraft carrier, is out at sea again. By this time tomorrow, the 45,550-ton vessel built at the Sevmash shipyard in Severodvinsk, north Russia, will be sailing through the Barents Sea. Exactly two months after he embarked on India's biggest warship, aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will once again visit a naval establishment to commission an indigenously-built stealth destroyer.
Kerala. For all the debates over its price, utility and delay in induction, aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya is sure to serve the Navy for at least 30 years, says a senior technical officer of the Navy. “The entry of the Vikramaditya marks a paradigm shift, as it heralds a new era in carrier operations in the Indian Navy.
July 16/15: India’s INS Vikramaditya is scheduled to leave Karwar next week after a recent refit. As per previous reports, the carrier has been updated with new air defense systems, including the Barak-1 missile system and the Russian AK-630 close-in weapon system (CIWS). INS Vikramaditya will remain India’s core carrier option for some time, as Vikrant isn’t expected to be ready until the end of 2018. Sources: India’s Business Standard, “INS Vikramaditya is operationally deployed with MiG- 29K aircraft: Navy Chief”.
INS Vikramaditya, India's biggest warship, finally arrives. India News | Edited by Shamik Ghosh | Sunday January 5, 2014. India's biggest ship, aircraft Carrier INS Vikramaditya, which was acquired from Russia in November, has finally arrived in the Indian Navy's Area of Operation in the Arabian Sea after a long voyage. Exactly two months after he embarked on India's biggest warship, aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will once again visit a naval establishment to commission an indigenously-built stealth destroyer.
defence. For all the debates over its price, utility and delay in induction, aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya is sure to serve the Navy for at least 30 years, says a senior technical officer of the Navy. “The entry of the Vikramaditya marks a paradigm shift, as it heralds a new era in carrier operations in the Indian Navy.
INS Vikramaditya (Sanskrit, Vikramāditya (भा नौ पो विक्रमादित्य) meaning Brave as the Sun ) is a modified Kiev-class aircraft carrier which entered into service with the Indian Navy in 2013. She has been renamed in honour of Vikramaditya, a legendary 1st century BCE emperor of Ujjain, India. Originally built as Baku and commissioned in 1987, the carrier served with the Soviet and later with the Russian Navies (as Admiral Gorshkov) before being decommissioned in 1996 as she was too expensive to operate on a post-Cold War budget.
INS Vikramaditya is the Indian Navy's largest short take-off, but assisted recovery (STOBAR) aircraft carrier and warship converted from the Russian Navy's decommissioned Admiral Gorshkov vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) missile cruiser carrier. INS Vikramaditya was commissioned into service in November 2013. INS Vikramaditya design and features. The refurbished aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya is equipped with 234 new hull sections constructed using 2,500t of steel. It has an overall length of 284m, a maximum beam of 60m, height of about 60m and a displacement of 44,500t.
INS Vikramaditya dedicated to nation: As it happened. Narendra Modi`s chopper lands on INS Vikramaditya. The PM will spend around four hours on the aircraft carrier and witness the prowess of the naval aircraft including MiG 29K, displaying operational capabilities on the Indian Navy`s largest and most powerful warship. Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday dedicated to the nation INS Vikramaditya, India`s largest and most powerful aircraft carrier, marking his first visit to a military facility after assuming office.
Two days before the Indian Navy's biggest acquisition ever, INS Vikramaditya is inducted in the service in Russia, here's a background note on its long, chequered journey from an abandoned decrepit Russian aircraft carrier to what the Navy says, a 'game changer' in Asia. 
India's biggest warship INS Vikramaditya to undergo first refit next year. Aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, India's biggest warship, will undergo its first refit next year and it is likely to be carried out at Pipavav shipyard, part of Anil Ambani-led Reliance Group. INS Vikramaditya to undergo first refit next year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday dedicated to the nation INS Vikramaditya, India`s largest and most powerful aircraft carrier, marking his first visit to a military facility after assuming office.