1 Having a flat fixed by a tire or repair shop typically costs $5-$40 for a standard tire and $30-$60 to repair a run flat tire (designed to be safe to drive on even when it is flat).
1 If the spare tire is flat or not available, and if a temporary fix isn't possible, towing a vehicle to a shop where the flat tire can be repaired or replaced can cost $35-$125 or more, depending on location and type of vehicle.
Average Tire Puncture Repair Cost. Tire puncture repair cost is not as expensive as you may fear, but it will take some time out of your day. On average, tire puncture repair will cost you between $10 and $20. The repair will involve getting the tire patched. Some tire dealers will repair a punctured tire for free if you purchased your tire from them. It is really a nice service to have at your disposal, and it makes you want to do business with them again.
Having a flat tire on your car is not only inconvenient but can also be expensive. The cost of fixing your tire varies, depending on the amount of damage done to it and the repair method you choose. In some cases, you'll use a temporary repair before you can fix the tire permanently or replace it.
In general, a sidewall tire repair will cost somewhere around $20 or more, depending on the location of the tear. Most tire repairs, unless you opt for a new tire-which experts recommend when the sidewall is involved-cost from $10 to $20.
1 If it's not included, this can cost $6-$20 per wheel. 2  If the spare tire is flat or not available, and if a temporary fix isn't possible, towing a vehicle to a shop where the flat tire can be repaired or replaced can cost $35-$125 or more, depending on location and type of vehicle.
1 A do-it-yourself tire repair kit can cost $5-$20 for simple tools and plugs (to fill the puncture), or $20-$50 for a larger kit with a sealant and a pump or compressor to re-inflate the tire.
Tire puncture repair cost is not as expensive as you may fear, but it will take some time out of your day. On average, tire puncture repair will cost you between $10 and $20. The repair will involve getting the tire patched. Some tire dealers will repair a punctured tire for free if you purchased your tire from them. It is really a nice service to have at your disposal, and it makes you want to do business with them again.