In 1814, the first successful steam engine locomotive was built by the British Engineer George Stephenson called Bluecher, blücher which could haul up to 30 tons of coal at 4mph going. Uphill later in, 1825 stephenson also created the first public railway for steam. locomotives The steam powered engine is the heart of the steam locomotive. In order to understand how the locomotive works, it is important to first understand how the steam engine operates. This involves water and fire, which is used to create heat.
Both fuel and water supplies are carried with the locomotive, either on the locomotive itself or in wagons (tenders) pulled behind. The first steam locomotive was made by Richard Trevithick on the 21st of Feb 1804, two years after the railway locomotive he made in 1802 or the road locomotive he made in 1801. 
The history of the train will show that Richard Trevithick made the first steam tramway locomotive in 1804. In 1814, George Stephenson created the Blucher, the first steam locomotive meant for railway use. Early History of Railways. As stated, it was Trevithick who built the tramway steam locomotive. It was first run on February 22, 1804. The machine was able to carry a 10 ton load. The load consisted of 70 people, some wagons and iron pieces. It traveled 9 miles, which took two hours. This took place in South Wales.
James Watt invented the first modern steam engine, though rudimentary steam devices can be traced back to the first century in Egypt. The first steam locomotive prototype was … built in 1784 by William Murdoch, who was born in Scotland and worked as an engineer and inventor in Birmingham, England. Richard Trevithick invented the first steam locomotive in 1803, but the iron rails couldn't carry the weight. From there, George Stephenson is credited with the first practica … l steam locomotive.
Britain was a major force in the development of the steam engine and steam locomotives. Although prototypes had previously been created, the first full scale steam locomotive was built in Britain by British engineer Richard Trevithick in 1804. Unfortunately his steam locomotive was not well received. In 1814, the first successful steam engine locomotive was built by the British Engineer George Stephenson called Bluecher, blücher which could haul up to 30 tons of coal at 4mph going. uphill The steam powered engine is the heart of the steam locomotive. In order to understand how the locomotive works, it is important to first understand how the steam engine operates. This involves water and fire, which is used to create heat.
Richard Trevithick is credited with inventing the first high-pressure steam engine and the first operational steam locomotive at the turn of the 19th century. A controversial and somewhat tragic figure, Richard Trevithick (1771 – 1833)
To achieve motive steam power would, for the first time in history, allow man to travel on land at a speed faster than that of the domesticated horse. Trevithick's Tramroad Locomotive. In 1802, Richard Trevithick patented a high pressure engine and created the first steam-powered locomotive engine on rails. Trevithick wrote on February 21, 1804, after the trial of his High Pressure Tram-Engine, that he carry'd ten tons of Iron, five wagons, and 70 Men...above 9 miles...in 4 hours and 5 Mints.. American inventors and engineers had been on a parallel course with the British and, as early as 1812, John Stevens had petitioned Congress to support a national railroad. He had also built the first American steam locomotive in 1825.
So, Trevithick invented the first train, Stephenson the first public railway line and the original Steam locomotive was invented and patented by James Watt in 1784, following many years of his work in improving steam engines in general. Richard Trevithick invented the first steam locomotive in 1803, but the iron rails couldn't carry the weight. From there, George Stephenson is credited with the first practica … l steam locomotive.
The first attempts were made in Great Britain; the earliest steam rail locomotive was built in 1804 by Richard Trevithick and Andrew Vivian. The steam road Locomotive was invented by Richard Trevithick, but the first steam RAILWAY Locomotive was invented by George Stephenson. A Scottish inventor called William Murd … och, made the first Locomotive Prototype. Hope this helps! 2 people found this useful.