Now that you know how to grow lupines, add this tall, showy bloom to an area where lupine flowers will be visible and act as background for other full-sun blooms. The lupine plant grows from a long taproot and does not like to be moved. Lupines grow wild in some areas of the United States, where they are hosts for the larvae of endangered species of butterflies.
The flowers come in a wide range of colors and bloom throughout summer. Lupines grow up to 4 feet tall and 2 feet wide with horizontal leaves and 1- to 4-foot-tall flower spikes that contain small blossoms that resemble those of pea plants. The lupine grows wild throughout most of the colder regions of the United States and prefers to grow in climates where summer nights are cooler. Step 4. Plant the pretreated lupine seeds into the prepared soil bed in spring or early summer. Space the lupine seeds 12 to 14 inches apart and cover them with a 1/8-inch layer of soil.
Lupin grows as a perennial and is a semi-edible flower / ornamental. Being a perennial plant, it tends to grow best over several years (approx 3 years and greater). Lupin is known for its erect habit and growing to a height of approximately 60.0 cm (1.95 feet). This plant tends to bloom in late spring, followed by first harvests in early autumn
Dwarf Lupine. The colourful spikes of Lupines are an unforgettable sight in the early summer border. Plants grow best in a deep, rich soil, slightly on the acidic side. This compact mixture produces flowers in nearly every shade of the rainbow, including white, pink, yellow, red and deep blue. Plant number: 1.330.520
Overview. Lupine is an herbaceous perennial that flowers in the months of May and June. The plant produces 2-foot-tall flower spikes in the colors of red, purple, yellow and white, which are attractive to butterflies and bees. Lupine plants require full sun to part shade and a well draining soil. 
I would like to add to this-Lupine grow much better where other plants from the legume family have grown. Some seed sources of wild lupine offer inoculant with their seeds. So depending what type you are trying to grow and where they will be growing you may have good or bad luck. 
Its botanical name is Lupinus 'dwarf lupin' . dwarf lupin grows as a Perennial and is a Flower. Being a Perennial, it tends to grow best over several years (approx 3 years and greater). dwarf lupin is known for growing to a height of approximately 60.0 cm (1.95 feet). This variety tends to bloom in late spring. This easy to grow lupin produces clumps of leaves and tall spikes of flowers from late spring to early summer. Flowers attract bees
Lupine plants are an old-fashioned flower, with annual and perennial varieties. A member of the pea family, Lupines are native to North America and Europe. Good looking, easy to grow plants have hand-print shaped leaves. Established plants will grow well for years. 
In this video, Jeff shows us how to pot up dwarf Lupins, great for anyone who wants to know how to grow Lupins in a smaller garden. Lupins are a traditional cottage garden favourite, but they can grow quite fast and reach large heights quickly. 
Lupinus polyphyllus (large-leaved lupine, big-leaved lupine, many-leaved lupine or, primarily in cultivation, garden lupin) is a species of lupine (lupin) native to western North America from southern Alaska and British Columbia east to Quebec, and western Wyoming, and south to Utah and California. It commonly grows along streams and creeks, preferring moist habitats. It is a perennial herbaceous plant with stout stems growing to 1.5 metres (4 ft 11 in) tall. The leaves are palmately compound with (5-) 9-17 leaflets 3–15 centimetres (1.2–5.9 in) long.