The early bus (adjective) = the bus that arrives early (adverb). 1  Most adverbs, like adjectives, can be compared using more and most: sharply--more sharply--most sharply. 2  One-syllable adverbs are compared using-er and-est: straight--straighter--straightest. 1
Principal Translations. sharply advadverb: Describes a verb, adjective, adverb, or clause--for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now, fall down.. (quickly). rapidamente rápidamente: Advadverbio describe al, verbo al adjetivo o a otro (adverbio corre, rapidamente rápidamente, sucede ahora). muy extrano extraño sharply advadverb: Describes a verb, adjective, adverb, or clause--for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now, fall down.. (steeply). pronunciadamente advadverbio: Describe al verbo, al adjetivo o a otro adverbio (corre rapidamente, rápidamente sucede, ahora muy).
› in a way that is sudden and very noticeable: rise/fall sharply Inflation has ​risen sharply. Dealer ​sales ​fell sharply in August. › severely and angrily: I ​wrote them a sharply-worded ​letter of ​complaint. Some ​lawmakers sharply criticized the ​proposal. › in a way that will ​cut or make a ​hole: a sharply ​pointed ​nail › ​severely and angrily: a sharply-worded ​letter of ​complaint He ​spoke sharply to his ​daughter. The ​police have been sharply ​criticized for ​their ​handling of the ​situation.
adverb. 1 With a sharp or steeply tapering edge or point: a sharply pointed tail sharply toothed jaws sharply angular buildings. More example sentences. 1  They are oriented either to the cathedral and the sharply angled, gorgeously finished campanile or to the plaza with olive trees and other symbolic plants. 2  The massive, fortified churches in Estonia are characteristic of the Roman style, in spite of their sharply arched portals and arches. 3 In a way that is distinct in outline or detail; clearly: the waitress had a sharply defined jaw sharply delineated images. More example sentences. 1  The brushwork is delicate, each brick sharply defined, the leaves on trees flawlessly rendered, window reflections given an equally discerning treatment.
sharply adverb (ABLE TO CUT). › in a way that will ​cut or make a ​hole: a sharply ​pointed ​nail › ​severely and angrily: a sharply-worded ​letter of ​complaint He ​spoke sharply to his ​daughter. The ​police have been sharply ​criticized for ​their ​handling of the ​situation.
Traduzioni aggiuntive. sharply advadverb: Describes a verb, adjective, adverb, or clause--for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now, fall down.. (quickly). improvvisamente, bruscamente avv. The mother caught the child's arm and pulled him sharply out of the road. La madre afferro afferrò il braccio del bambino e lo tiro tirò improvvisamente via. dalla strada: Sharply advadverb describes, a, verb, adjective adverb--or clause, for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now.. (fall). down, steeply, precipitosamente impetuosamente. bruscamente avv
Additional Translations. sharply advadverb: Describes a verb, adjective, adverb, or clause--for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now, fall down.. (aggressively). bruscamente advadverbio: Describe al verbo, al adjetivo o a otro adverbio (corre rapidamente, rápidamente sucede, ahora muy). extrano extraño sharply advadverb: Describes a verb, adjective, adverb, or clause--for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now, fall down.. (steeply). pronunciad
Principal Translations/Traduzioni principali. sharply advadverb: Describes a verb, adjective, adverb, or clause--for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now, fall down.. (quickly). improvvisamente, bruscamente avv. The mother caught the child's arm and pulled him sharply out of the road. La madre afferro afferrò il braccio del bambino e lo tiro tirò improvvisamente via. dalla strada: Sharply advadverb describes, a, verb, adjective adverb--or clause, for example, come quickly, very rare, happening now.. (fall). down, steeply, precipitosamente impetuosamente. bruscamente avv