Characteristics: Sky Pencil holly is a relatively slow-growing, columnar shrub that reaches 4-10 feet in height, with a width only about 1/3 of that. When my own shrub reached 6 feet tall, its width was only 14 inches at the widest point. There's a barberry shrub that has a columnar form, also. It's called Berberis thunbergii 'Helmond Pillar' and averages 4-5 feet tall by just 1-2 feet wide. Like Sky Pencil holly, this choice is a berry-producer (and being red berries, they are showier). But unlike Ilex crenata, it is deciduous. Grow in zones 4-8.
0. BEST ANSWER: Hi Jean!Since I just planted 3 of these Sky Pencil Holly trees this Spring, I personally cannot tell you. But by looking online, it is said that these trees will grow 2-3 feet wide by 6-8 feet tall. With time I think they may exceed this if given the proper cultural needs. 
Japanese Holly Plants. Japanese holly plants (Ilex crenata) grow into dense, rounded bushes between 3 and 10 feet tall and wide, with lustrous leaves and a compact habit. Some grow slow and some relatively fast, so pick your cultivar carefully. Japanese Holly Care. You’ll do best growing Japanese holly in light, well-drained soil with plenty of organic material. The shrubs prefer slightly acidic soil and will develop iron deficiency if the soil pH is too high. You can plant the shrubs in almost any garden location since they tolerate full sun or partial shade.
1 ‘Convexa’ grows 10 feet tall and 24 feet wide, making this the largest Japanese holly. ‘ 2 Helleri’ is a compact, rounded form that grows 3 feet tall. 3  It is often used in mass plantings. ‘ 4 Roundleaf’ grows 5 to 10 feet tall and does not produce fruit. Below are a few to consider: ‘ 1 Convexa’ grows 10 feet tall and 24 feet wide, making this the largest Japanese holly. ‘ 2 Helleri’ is a compact, rounded form that grows 3 feet tall. ‘ 3 Roundleaf’ grows 5 to 10 feet tall and does not produce fruit.
Below are a few to consider: ‘ 1 Convexa’ grows 10 feet tall and 24 feet wide, making this the largest Japanese holly. ‘ 2 Helleri’ is a compact, rounded form that grows 3 feet tall. 3  It is often used in mass plantings. Below are a few to consider: ‘ 1 Convexa’ grows 10 feet tall and 24 feet wide, making this the largest Japanese holly. ‘ 2 Helleri’ is a compact, rounded form that grows 3 feet tall. ‘ 3 Roundleaf’ grows 5 to 10 feet tall and does not produce fruit.
Japanese holly plants (Ilex crenata) grow into dense, rounded bushes between 3 and 10 feet tall and wide, with lustrous leaves and a compact habit. Japanese Holly Care. You’ll do best growing Japanese holly in light, well-drained soil with plenty of organic material. The shrubs prefer slightly acidic soil and will develop iron deficiency if the soil pH is too high. You can plant the shrubs in almost any garden location since they tolerate full sun or partial shade.
Japanese Hollies grow from 3 to 15 feet tall, depending on the variety. A typical shrub will spread 2 to 10 feet and have a dense rounded habit. Japanese Holly leaves are small and broadly oval, 1/2 to 1 inch long, up to 1/2 inch wide. 
Moderate Growth Rate. Sky Pencil has a distinctively tall and slender profile. This Japanese holly grows at a moderate rate to a height of more than 6 feet tall. The maximum width of this plant, however, is only about 3 feet. Sky Pencil is hardy in USDA zones 5 through 9 and makes a striking container plant. Soft Touch is an unusual holly because its leaves are soft to the touch. 