Diabetes is caused by any defect on    low or no secretion of insulin or  improper use of insulin   Insulin is secreted by the gland Pancreas. So pancreas is respo … nsible for diabetes, it the cause is low insulin secretion (type II diabetes) or no insulin secretion (type I diabetes).
Endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete  their products, hormones, directly into the blood rather than  through a duct. The endocrine system contain … s glands that release  certain hormones for growth/body functions/body reactions.
Endocrine system keeps the body's hormone and secretion levels in balance. Since there is a whole series of organs and glands that must work in tandem to maintain healthy hormone and secretion levels, when one of them doesn't function the way it's supposed to function, it puts a heavy strain on the rest of the body.
Photo Credit martellostudio/iStock/Getty Images. The adrenal glands are endocrine, or hormone releasing, and are located on top of the kidneys. They release hormones that are essential to life such as the stress hormone cortisol, which is a corticosteroid, and catecholamines such as adrenaline.
The pancreas contains cells which release both insulin and glucagon. The endocrine system consists of a number of different glands which secrete hormones that dictate how cells and organs behave. The hormones produced by the endocrine system help the body to regulate growth, sexual function, mood and metabolism.
Glands included in the endocrine system include the hypothalamus, pituitary gland, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal glands, pineal body and reproductive glands which include the ovaries and the testes. Each one of these systems has a function to help the body stay in balance.
Best Answer: The pancreas is NOT involved in diabetes insipidus. The pancreas is involved in diabetes mellitus. The anti-diuretic hormone secreted by the pituatary gland is involved in diabetes insipidus. Source(s): LPN w/ history of working in an endocrinology office.