Liquid nitrogen is nitrogen in a liquid state at an extremely low temperature. It is produced industrially by fractional distillation of liquid air. Liquid nitrogen is a colorless clear liquid with density of 0.807 g/ml at its boiling point and a dielectric constant of 1.43. Liquid nitrogen is often referred to by the abbreviation, LN2 or LIN or LN and has the UN number 1977. 
Optimum Mixture Ratio. Unlike other propellants, the optimum mixture ratio for liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen is not necessarily that which will produce the maximum specific impulse. 
Useful information. 1  1 litre of medical liquid oxygen will ‘evaporate’ as it warms up to provide 860 litres of oxygen gas. 2  A typical portable 2 litre medical oxygen cylinder contains about 490 litres of oxygen gas. 3  A typical base unit will hold approximately 35,000 litres of oxygen gas. Medical liquid oxygen is stored in an insulated stainless steel container that works in a similar way to a thermos flask. These storage containers are referred to as base units and they hold the medical liquid oxygen at an extremely low temperature.
Medical liquid oxygen base units are low pressure storage containers designed to safely store more oxygen than gas cylinders can. The temperature of liquid oxygen is -183°C and can cause painful ‘cold’ burns if it should ever come into contact with your skin. Medical liquid oxygen is stored in an insulated stainless steel container that works in a similar way to a thermos flask. These storage containers are referred to as base units and they hold the medical liquid oxygen at an extremely low temperature.
Liquid oxygen — abbreviated LOx, LOX or Lox in the aerospace, submarine and gas industries — is one of the physical forms of elemental oxygen. 1  1 Physical properties. 
Preparation. 1  Clamp a 200-ml test tube so that it will sit in a bath of liquid nitrogen. 2  Connect one end of a length of rubber tubing to an oxygen cylinder and the other end to a piece of glass tubing. 3  Place the glass tubing in the test tube. There are several ways to make liquid oxygen. This one uses liquid nitrogen to cool oxygen from a gas into a liquid. If you have leftover liquid oxygen, the safest way to dispose of it is to pour it over a noncombustible surface and allow it to evaporate into the air. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D.
1 This structure is also available as a 2d Mol file or as a computed 3d SD file. 2  The 3d structure may be viewed using Java or Javascript. 3  Other names: Molecular oxygen; Oxygen molecule; Pure oxygen; O2; Liquid oxygen; UN 1072; UN 1073; Dioxygen. 4  Permanent link for this species. 1 The 3d structure may be viewed using Java or Javascript. 2  Other names: Molecular oxygen; Oxygen molecule; Pure oxygen; O2; Liquid oxygen; UN 1072; UN 1073; Dioxygen. 3  Permanent link for this species. 4  Use this link for bookmarking this species for future reference.
Medical liquid oxygen. Medical liquid oxygen is stored in an insulated stainless steel container that works in a similar way to a thermos flask. These storage containers are referred to as base units and they hold the medical liquid oxygen at an extremely low temperature.