Fungal endophthalmitis (FE) is infrequent but results in poor visual outcomes. It can be exogenous or endogenous depending upon the mode of infection. The common causes for endogenous FE, post-traumatic FE and FE secondary to keratitis are Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger and Fusarium solani, respectively. 
Endophthalmitis is the term used to describe severe inflammation of the tissues inside the eye. The inflammation is typically due to infection by bacteria (eg. Staphylococcus species, Streptococcus species, Gram-negative bacteria) or fungi (eg. Candida, Aspergillus). 
Endophthalmitis. Durand ML. Endophthalmitis means bacterial or fungal infection inside the eye involving the vitreous and/or aqueous humors. Most cases are exogenous and occur after eye surgery, after penetrating ocular trauma, or as an extension of corneal infection
0. Endophthalmitis is severe inflammation of the anterior and/or posterior chambers of the eye. Whilst it may be sterile, usually it is bacterial or fungal, with infection involving the vitreous and/or aqueous humours. Treatment of bacterial endophthalmitis includes direct injection of antibiotics into the vitreous, and vitrectomy in more severe cases. 1  Systemic antibiotics are indicated in endogenous endophthalmitis; their role in exogenous bacterial endophthalmitis is controversial.
Definition. Endophthalmitis is a term that describes an inflammation of the intraocular spaces that is usually caused by infection. Endophthalmitis can be exogenous or endogenous. The most common type of exogenous endophthalmitis is post-operative, such as after a cataract surgery. 
Background. Endophthalmitis is an inflammatory condition of the intraocular cavities (ie, the aqueous and/or vitreous humor) usually caused by infection. Noninfectious (sterile) endophthalmitis may result from various causes such as retained native lens material after an operation or from toxic agents. In endogenous endophthalmitis, blood-borne organisms (seen in patients who are bacteremic in situations such as endocarditis) permeate the blood-ocular barrier either by direct invasion (eg, septic emboli) or by changes in vascular endothelium caused by substrates released during
Endophthalmitis. Endophthalmitis is inflammation involving the entire eye, meaning that both the front and back portions of the eye are affected. Although the inflammation can be due to various causes, it is generally used to describe an extremely severe infection that has spread throughout the whole eyeball. Exogenous endophthalmitis: This is the infection of the eye by microorganisms that were directly introduced into the eye either from trauma or from eye surgery.
When the intraocular cavities get inflamed for some reason, this condition is known as endophthalmitis. It can be either non-infectious one caused by retained native lens substance or panophthalmitis infection wherein the entire coats of the eye develop swelling. Sometimes, surgical procedure may become the reason for exogenous endophthalmitis. Endophthalmitis caused by bacteria cause pain, redness of eyes and swelling of eyelids. Fungal endophthalmitis may generally persist on the ocular cavities for weeks together causing blurred vision and pain.
Endophthalmitis is an infection inside the eye. Fortunately, it is rare, but it can cause severe visual loss even with treatment. It is most common following severe eye injuries, eye surgery and intravitreal injections of medications like Avastin, Lucentis and triamcinolone. Endophthalmitis after a severe eye injury, known as traumatic endophthalmitis, often causes permanent, severe visual loss. Endophthalmitis following cataract surgery is most often caused by a type of bacterium that fortunately does not usually cause permanent, severe loss of vision if treated promptly.