He must follow the terms of the trust. The Trust and Trustees Act defines a beneficiary as “a person entitled to benefit under a trust or in whose favour a discretion to distribute property held in trust may be exercised”. Effectively a beneficiary is any person who enjoys a benefit under a trust. Trusts: settlor, trustee and beneficiary. In its simplest form, a trust is created when a settlor transfers property to a trustee to hold it for the benefit of one or more beneficiaries.
A recent California Court of Appeal decision from Division 4 highlights what can happen when a trustee who is also a beneficiary commits misconduct and breaches fiduciary duties to the other beneficiaries. 
If You Are Also a Beneficiary. It's quite common to be both a trustee and a beneficiary of a trust. The surviving spouse, for example, is almost always the successor trustee and beneficiary of a family trust.
The Duty of a California Trustee to the Account Beneficiaries. Trustees owe a great responsibility not only to the person who created the trust, but also to the beneficiaries of the trust. In the legal context, this responsibility is referred to as a “duty.” There are several different duties owed by the trustee to the beneficiaries. 
A trustee manages property that is held in trust. A trust is an arrangement in which one person holds the property of another for the benefit of a third party, called the beneficiary. The beneficiary is usually the owner of the property or a person designated as the beneficiary by the owner of the property. A trustee may be either an individual or a corporation. trustee. n. a person or entity who holds the assets (corpus) of a trustee for the benefit of the beneficiaries and manages the trust and its assets under the terms of the trust stated in the Declaration of Trust which created it.
A trust is a relationship whereby property is held by one party for the benefit of another. A trust is created by a settlor, who transfers property to a trustee. The trustee holds that property for the trust's beneficiaries. Trusts exist mainly in common law jurisdictions and similar systems existed since Roman times. A trust is created by a settlor, who transfers title to some or all of his or her property to a trustee, who then holds title that property in trust for the benefit of the beneficiaries. The trust is governed by the terms under which it was created.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In trust law, a beneficiary or cestui que use, a.k.a. cestui que trust, is the person or persons who are entitled to the benefit of any trust arrangement. 
So here's a quick summary of what a trust is, and why someone would create one in the first place. A trust is an agreement in which one person (the settlor) agrees to transfer property to another (the trustee) who manages that property for the benefit of someone else (the beneficiary). The settlor must legally transfer ownership of the assets to the trustee of the trust. The trust -- in the person of the trustee -- becomes the new legal owner, and the trustee becomes the new manager. The most common kind of trust is a living trust, created to avoid probate court proceedings when the settlor dies. With most living trusts, the settlor is also the first trustee and beneficiary.
As executor or trustee a person has a legal duty to manage the property in the decedent’s estate for the benefit of the trust or estate beneficiaries. If you are a beneficiary who is also serving as executor/trustee there are a few things you can do to ensure you keep your executor and beneficiary roles separate: * You may want to consider contacting a probate or estate planning attorney to mediate or oversee the process.