1 trademark-A name, symbol, or other depiction identifying a product. 2  The first trademarks were stamps and symbols used by ancient cultures to indicate who had made goods; a trade name is the name of the maker, not the product, but has the status of a trademark. 
A trade name is a name, other than the true name, of an entity or individual under which the entity or individual is authorized to transact business or conduct activities pursuant to section 7-71-101, C.R.S. Sometimes a trade name is referred to as a “doing business as” or “DBA” name. A trade name is not required to be distinguishable from any other trade name or any other name that is on record with the Secretary of State. Any trade name may be registered, even if it is similar to or exactly the same as another name that is in the records.
The distinction between a registered legal name and a fictitious business name or trade name is important, as businesses with the latter give no obvious indication of the true identity of the entity that is legally responsible for their operation. For trade names of other products and services, see brand name. A trade name, trading name, or business name is a pseudonym used by companies to perform their business under a name that differs from the registered, legal name of the business.
Trade name (also called fictitious business name, assumed name, or DBA for doing business as) is a legal way to do business under a particular name that you file with the state, county, or in some cases local municipality. 
For trade names of pharmaceuticals, see drug nomenclature. For trade names of other products and services, see brand name. A trade name, trading name, or business name is a pseudonym used by companies to perform their business under a name that differs from the registered, legal name of the business.
A trade name can also be referred to as a Fictitious Name or a Doing Business As (DBA). Examples of trade names are the use of the name Kodak by the company whose legal name is Eastman Kodak Company or McDonald s by the company whose legal name is McDonald's Corporation. Many people are often confused as to the differences between legal names, trade names and trademarks. Moreover, many business owners assume that once they have chosen a business name and registered the business with the state, that they have unlimited rights to the name in conjunction with their business.
Trade name registration. You must register a trade name, or “doing business as” name, for: 1  a sole proprietor or partnership using a name other than the full legal name of the owner or owners. 
A trade name is any name used in the course of business that doesn’t include the full legal name of all the owners of the business. In the case of a limited partnership, corporation, or LLC, it’s any name that differs in any respect from the name registered with the Secretary of State. 
A Trade Name, is the same as a Trade Business Name, DBA, Fictitious Business Name, Fictitious Firm Name, or Doing Business As Certificate. In addition, you can incorporate or form an LLC online through our site. In general, you need to file a trade business name and it is a certificate of your business name as opposed to a certificate of a business such as a business license. A trade business name is also called a DBA, Fictitious Business Name, an Assumed Business Name, a Trade Firm Name, or Doing Business As DBA.
Filing a trade name registers a business name for public record. A trade name is similar to a “doing business as” (“DBA”) name, and is not legally required but is an acceptable business practice. A trade name does not grant exclusive rights to a business name, nor is a trade name similar to a corporation or limited liability company (“LLC”). 