Bell's palsy is a paralysis or weakness of the muscles on one side of your face. Damage to the facial nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face causes that side of your face to droop. The nerve damage may also affect your sense of taste and how you make tears and saliva. In most cases of Bell's palsy, the nerve that controls muscles on one side of the face is damaged by inflammation. Many health problems can cause weakness or paralysis of the face. If a specific reason cannot be found for the weakness, the condition is called Bell's palsy. Symptoms of Bell's palsy include:
Bell's palsy. Bell’s palsy is the temporary weakness or paralysis of the muscles in one side of the face. In this video, a speech therapist explains who is most at risk and describes common causes and treatment options available. Bell's palsy is a condition that causes temporary weakness or paralysis of the muscles in one side of the face. It is the most common cause of facial paralysis. Other causes of facial paralysis include: 1  congenital facial palsy – children born with facial weakness.
Overview. Bell’s palsy is a condition that affects movement of the muscles in the face. The muscles are affected by damage to the seventh cranial nerve controlling them. Significant damage of this nerve can result in paralysis of the face. Swelling or inflammation of this nerve can also cause Bell’s palsy. Bell’s palsy is a condition that affects movement of the muscles in the face. The muscles are affected by damage to the seventh cranial nerve controlling them. Significant damage of this nerve can result in paralysis of the face
Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis resulting from damage or trauma to the facial nerves. The facial nerve-also called the 7th cranial nerve-travels through a narrow, bony canal (called the Fallopian canal) in the skull, beneath the ear, to the muscles on each side of the face. The facial nerve also transmits taste sensations from the tongue. When Bell's palsy occurs, the function of the facial nerve is disrupted, causing an interruption in the messages the brain sends to the facial muscles. This interruption results in facial weakness or paralysis.
Bell's palsy is a form of temporary facial paralysis resulting from damage or trauma to one of the facial nerves. It is the most common cause of facial paralysis. Generally, Bell's palsy affects only one of the paired facial nerves and one side of the face, however, in rare cases, it can affect both sides. 
Bell's palsy is defined as a one-sided facial nerve paralysis of unknown cause. Several other conditions can also cause facial paralysis, e.g., brain tumor, stroke, myasthenia gravis, and Lyme disease; however, if no specific cause can be identified, the condition is known as Bell's palsy. Bell's palsy is a form of facial paralysis resulting from a dysfunction of the cranial nerve VII (the facial nerve) causing an inability to control facial muscles on the affected side. Often the eye in the affected side cannot be closed. The eye must be protected from drying up, or the cornea.
Knowledge center. Bell's Palsy is the paralysis or severe weakness of the nerve that controls the facial muscles on the side of the face-the facial nerve or seventh cranial nerve. Patients typically find they suddenly cannot control their facial muscles, usually on one side. 