Open your document and click on the file menu, then click on Save As. On the right hand side you will need to choose a location to save the password protected version of the PDF. Now drop down the Save as type box and choose PDF. This will make an options button appear, click on it. When the dialog box appears, you will notice the last option is to encrypt the document with a password, check the box. Then you will need to select a password and click ok. Finally you can go ahead and save the PDF.
In order to password protect a PDF file using Adobe Acrobat: 1. Click ‘File’ which is on the top horizontal toolbar. 2. Select ‘open’ by scrolling down the drop-down list. 3. With the help of the browser window, password-protect the file that you wish to select. 4. Go to the ‘Security’ tab in the properties dialogue box. 5. Select ‘Password Security’ in the top drop-down box instead of ‘No Security’. Source: https://passwordprotectpdffile.com/how-to-password-protect-pdf-files/
Step 1: Open the PDF document as you would normally and access the Security panel as previously outlined. Step 2: Select Change Settings to access the Password Security menu. From there, check the box beside Restrict editing and printing… and enter a password in the box to the right of Change Permissions Password. How to password protect a PDF (PC). Password Protecting a PDF on a Windows machine isn’t as easy as you might expect. Although premium programs such as Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat can handle the task with ease, Windows doesn’t offer a freemium tool for doing so in the way Mac OS X does.
How to restrict editing and printing on Adobe Acrobat (PC). Password protecting a PDF document isn’t necessarily a catch-all. The Document Security menu of Adobe Acrobat, for instance, will additionally allow you to password protect certain tasks such as editing and printing. How to password protect a PDF (PC). Password Protecting a PDF on a Windows machine isn’t as easy as you might expect. Although premium programs such as Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat can handle the task with ease, Windows doesn’t offer a freemium tool for doing so in the way Mac OS X does.
Step 2: Launch Adobe Acrobat, click the File menu in the upper-left corner, and select Open. Afterward, choose the PDF file you want to password protect from its respective save location and click the Open button. Step 3: Click the File menu again when viewing the open document, followed by Properties and Security. Step 4: Click the drop-down menu to the right of Security Method, then select Password Security from the resulting list of options. Step 5: A window should appear prompting you for a password. How to password protect a PDF (PC). Password Protecting a PDF on a Windows machine isn’t as easy as you might expect. Although premium programs such as Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat can handle the task with ease, Windows doesn’t offer a freemium tool for doing so in the way Mac OS X does.
Remove password security. You can remove security from an open PDF if you have the permissions to do so. If the PDF is secured with a server-based security policy, only the policy author or a server administrator can change it. Open the PDF, then select Tools Protect Encrypt Remove Security. Open the PDF and choose Tools Protect Restrict Editing. If you receive a prompt, click Yes to change the security. Type the password in the corresponding field. For each keystroke, the password strength meter evaluates your password and indicates the password strength.
1 Open the PDF file in Acrobat. 2  Got to the “Security Options” drop-down and select “Acrobat Standard Security”. 3  Find the box labeled “Password required to open document” and place a check mark against it. Password protect PDF documents, suppress printing and copying text from such documents with the instructions listed below. The big advantage that PDF documents have over image files like TIFFs or JPGs, is the ability to secure the document.
Add a password to a PDF. Open the PDF and choose Tools Protect Encrypt Encrypt with Password. If you receive a prompt, click Yes to change the security. Select Require A Password To Open The Document, then type the password in the corresponding field. Open the PDF and choose Tools Protect Restrict Editing. If you receive a prompt, click Yes to change the security. Type the password in the corresponding field. For each keystroke, the password strength meter evaluates your password and indicates the password strength.
1 Open the document that you want to convert to PDF and password protect. 2  Go to and in the Printers section select novaPDF before clicking OK. 3  In the Save PDF file window that shows up check the option to Encrypt PDF document. 4  Click on the Password button and enter an User password and/or an Owner password. Password-protect a PDF file with novaPDF Pro using the default settings: To password protect a PDF file by modifying the default settings: 1 