The cuff is then inflated, putting pressure on the vessels and arteries. Once the cuff is fully inflated, it starts to deflate, and the return of bloodflow to the area is measured with a device which can measure the pressure of the returning blood against the walls of the artery.
1 To begin blood pressure measurement, use a properly sized blood pressure cuff. 2  The length of the cuff's bladder should be at least equal to 80% of the circumference of the upper arm. 3  Wrap the cuff around the upper arm with the cuff's lower edge one inch above the antecubital fossa.
Checking your blood pressure at home is an important part of managing high blood pressure (hypertension). The American Heart Association (AHA) and other organizations recommend that anyone with high blood pressure monitor his or her blood pressure at home.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A blood pressure cuff is a medical device which is used to apply pressure to the arteries in the arm for the purpose of measuring blood pressure. Blood pressure is a valuable indicator of cardiovascular health, and it is one of the key vital signs which is regularly tested by nurses and other medical staff.
For arm models, make sure the blood pressure monitor you choose has a cuff that fits the circumference of your upper arm. Using a cuff that's the wrong size can result in a bad reading. Most models we tested have two cuffs or a cuff that adjusts to fit most people.
Using a blood pressure cuff that's too large or too small can give you inaccurate blood pressure readings. Your doctor's office should have several sizes of cuffs to ensure an accurate blood pressure reading. Also, when you measure your blood pressure at home, it's important to use the proper size cuff.
A sphygmomanometer that allows the blood pressure to be taken without the observer's knowing where zero pressure is on the device. After the pressure is obtained, the mercury comes to rest at a point. The observed pressure is then corrected by subtracting the at-rest value on the device from the pressure obtained.
See also blood pressure cuff. sphygmomanometer, aneroid ma-nometer. n a portable, handheld blood pressure measurement unit consisting of a cuff that is easily applied with one hand, a built-in or attachable stethoscope, a valve that inflates and deflates the cuff automatically, and an easy-to-read data display screen.