The best known animal phyla are the Mollusca, Porifera, Cnidaria, Platyhelminthes, Nematoda, Annelida, Arthropoda, Echinodermata, and Chordata, the phylum to which humans belong. Different types of soil include sandy, silty, clay, and alkaline.  Root vegetables, such as carrots, beets, potatoes, and radishes  grow well in sand. Silty, loamy soils are … ideal for growing most  vegetables and flowers. The plants get nutrition from the rich  soil.
Currently, the most accepted mega-classification system is under the three-domain system, which is based on molecular phylogeny. In that system, bacteria are members of the domain Bacteria and phylum is the rank below domain as the rank kingdom is disused at present in bacterial taxonomy. In this classification scheme, Bacteria is (unofficially) subdivided into over 29 phyla with representatives cultured in a lab. In the scientific classification established by Carl von Linne, linné each bacterial strain has to be assigned to a (species binary), nomenclature which is a lower level of a hierarchy of. Ranks, currently the most accepted-mega classification system is under the-three domain, system which is based on molecular. phylogeny
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7. Furthermore, organisms in the stem group of a phylum can possess the body plan of the phylum without all the characteristics necessary to fall within it. This weakens the idea that each of the phyla represents a distinct body plan.
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. Arthropod Phylum: All the jointed legged animals. All of these animals have an exoskeleton, meaning the skeleton is on the outside of the body. Instead of Phyla, the Plant Kingdom is split into Divisions. Each Divsion group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some plant Divisions: Magnoliophyta Division: All flowering plants. These plants have leaves, stems, and roots. After flowering, they form fruits with seeds.
Moneran Kingdom. Each Kingdom is then split into smaller groups, called Phyla. Each Phylum is split into smaller groups called Classes, each Class is split into Orders, each Order is split into Families, each Family is split into Genera, and each Genus is split into Species. A Species is a single organism, not a group. 
Answer by DarcyMarie. Confidence votes 376. The best known animal phyla are the Mollusca, Porifera, Cnidaria, Platyhelminthes, Nematoda, Annelida, Arthropoda, Echinodermata, and Chordata, the phylum to which humans belong. Although there are approximately 35 phyla, these nine include over 96% of animal species. Many phyla are exclusively marine, and only one phylum, the Onychophora (velvet worms) is entirely absent from the world's oceans-although ancestral oncyophorans were marine. Different types of soil include sandy, silty, clay, and alkaline.  Root vegetables, such as carrots, beets, potatoes, and radishes  grow well in sand. Silty, loamy soils are … ideal for growing most  vegetables and flowers. The plants get nutrition from the rich  soil.
The definitions of zoological phyla have changed importantly from their origins in the six Linnaean classes and the four embranchements of Georges Cuvier. Haeckel introduced the term phylum, based on the Greek word phylon. In plant taxonomy, Eichler (1883) classified plants into five groups, named divisions. Furthermore, organisms in the stem group of a phylum can possess the body plan of the phylum without all the characteristics necessary to fall within it. This weakens the idea that each of the phyla represents a distinct body plan.
Phylum. Immediately below kingdom is the phylum level of classification. At this level, animals are grouped together based on similarities in basic body plan or organization. For instance, species in the phylum Arthropoda have external skeletons as well as jointed bodies and limbs.
List of animal phyla is a list of the major groups of animals usually classified as a phylum. Modern sources have been used: the list is different from that of Linnaeus or Cuvier. A list of this type may be arranged alphabetically; but equally it might be arranged according to evolutionary relationships. 1 Priapulida or Priapula: small phylum of 18 species, with large front section which can be drawn back into the body cavity and extruded for feeding. 2  The larger species are carnivores, seizing prey. 3  The Burgess Shale fauna from the Cambrian shows that the living species are but a remnant of a once much larger group.
The phylum Porifera, which means pore bearing, consists of three classes of sponges, which together contain more than 5,000 species. 