1 Full text of Executive Order 9981 from the Harry S. Truman Presidential Library and Museum. 2  Integration of the Armed Forces, 1940-1965 (Defense Studies Series) by Morris J. MacGregor, Jr., from the United States Army Center of Military History. Most of the actual enforcement of the order was accomplished by President Dwight D. Eisenhower's administration (1953-1961), including the desegregation of military schools, hospitals, and bases. The last of the all-black units in the United States military was abolished in September 1954.
President Truman had been examining the issue of segregation in the armed forces since at least 1947, when he appointed the President's Committee on Civil Rights. By January 1948, internal White House memos indicated that the President was determined to end military segregation by executive order. This Day in Truman History July 26, 1948 President Truman issues Executive Order No. 9981 Desegregating the Military.
Primary Resources: Desegregation of the Armed Forces, 1948. Truman makes desegregation of the armed forces an official government policy. Executive Order. Establishing the President's Committee on Equality of Treatment and Opportunity in the Armed Services. 
Although African Americans have served on the frontlines of combat for the U.S. since the Revolutionary War, it took President Harry Truman’s 1948 Executive Order to address and order an end to racial discrimination within the ranks of every branch of the U.S. armed forces. Desegregation of US Military. “There shall be equality of treatment and opportunity for all persons in the armed services without regard to race, color, religion or national origin…” - Executive Order 9981.
Executive Order 9981 was an executive order issued on July 26, 1948, by President Harry S. Truman. Most of the actual enforcement of the order was accomplished by President Dwight D. Eisenhower's administration (1953-1961), including the desegregation of military schools, hospitals, and bases. The last of the all-black units in the United States military was abolished in September 1954.
Executive Order 9981: Desegregation of the Armed Forces (1948). In 1940 the U.S. population was about 131 million, 12.6 million of which was African American, or about 10 percent of the total population. During World War II, the Army had become the nation's largest minority employer. 
April 26, 1948: Sixteen African-American leaders tell Secretary of Defense James V. Forrestal that African-Americans will react strongly unless the armed forces end segregation. May 1948: President Truman's staff considers advising the President to create a committee to oversee the integration of the armed forces. June 26, 1948: A. Philip Randolph announces the formation of the League for Non-Violent Civil Disobedience Against Military Segregation. September 18, 1948: The White House announces the names of the members of the President's Committee on Equality of Treatment and Opportunity in the Armed Services (called the Fahy Committee, after its chairman, Charles Fahy).
But when President Harry Truman signed an executive order on July 26, 1948, calling for the desegregation of the military, it was the beginning, not the end, of the fight for African-Americans to fight alongside white troops. October 1947 To avoid the political backlash if he failed to act on discrimination in the federal government, President Truman’s political advisors decided that his best move was to issue an executive order “securing the civil rights of both civilian government employees and members of the armed forces.”.
So instead, Truman used an executive order to end military segregation. Executive Order 9981, signed on July 26, 1948, forbade discriminating against military personnel because of race, color, religion, or national origin. Significance. Sources. Desegregation of the Armed Forces.. The Truman Library. Though a number of whites in the military resisted and racism continued to exist within the armed forces, Executive Order 9981 was the first major blow to segregation, giving hope to African-American activists that change was possible.
President Harry Truman Wipes Out Military Segregation What s the Main Idea? Object Description Probing Further By Executive Order-- President Truman Wipes Out Segregation in Armed Forces. 1 Harry S. Truman was the first president to issue an executive order to enforce a civil rights issue; 2  Although an executive order had been issued, the process of desegregating the military happened slowly.