1 Terrestrial ecosystems and biodiversity: With a warming of 3°C, relative to 1990 levels, it is likely that global terrestrial vegetation would become a net source of carbon (Schneider et al ., 2007:792). 2  With high confidence, Schneider et al. Unchecked global warming could affect most terrestrial ecoregions. Increasing global temperature means that ecosystems will change; some species are being forced out of their habitats (possibly to extinction) because of changing conditions, while others are flourishing.
Human survival depends on the health of the ecosystem. An ecosystem is comprised of communities of plants, animals and other organisms in a particular area that interact with each other and their surrounding environment. Both living and non-living things are considered part of an ecosystem. 
1.2 Ecosystems depend on fundamental environmental cycles such as the continuous circulation of water, carbon, and other nutrients. Human activities have modified these cycles, especially during the last 50 years, through increases in freshwater use, carbon dioxide emissions, and fertilizer use. Changes in biodiversity at a particular location affect the ability of the ecosystem to supply services and to recover from disturbances. More... 2.5 When humans modify an ecosystem to gain something, it often has negative effects on other components of ecosystems, leading to trade-offs.
Confidence votes 4.4K. Harmful Effects on the Ecosystem: Pollution of Land Improper disposal of waste from homes, offices, hospitals, stores and factories causes garbage to pile up. Open dump sites destroy the beuty of a place. They also provide breeding places for rats and flies, which are harmful to people. 
Effects of chemicals on communities can be measured in laboratory model ecosystem (microcosm) studies, in intermediate sized systems (mesocosms, engineered field systems, open-top plant chambers, field pens), and in full field trials. An ecosystem consist of different communities of organisms associated within a physically defined space. For example, a forest ecosystem consists of animal and plant communities in the soil, forest floor, and forest canopy, along the stream bank and bottom, and in the stream.
The two main areas where the effect of biodiversity on ecosystem function have been studied are the relationship between diversity and productivity, and the relationship between diversity and community stability. 1 Insurance Effect If an ecosystem contains more species then it will have a greater likelihood of having redundant stabilizing species, and it will have a greater number of species that respond to perturbations in different ways.
These ecological effects of biodiversity in turn affect both climate change through enhanced greenhouse gases, aerosols and loss of land cover, and biological diversity, causing a rapid loss of ecosystems and extinctions of species and local populations. 1 Insurance Effect If an ecosystem contains more species then it will have a greater likelihood of having redundant stabilizing species, and it will have a greater number of species that respond to perturbations in different ways.
In order to understand the effects that changes in biodiversity will have on ecosystem functioning, it is important to define some terms. Biodiversity is not easily defined, but may be thought of as the number and/or evenness of genes, species, and ecosystems in a region. 1 Insurance Effect If an ecosystem contains more species then it will have a greater likelihood of having redundant stabilizing species, and it will have a greater number of species that respond to perturbations in different ways.
The world's ecosystems are in high danger from the effects of global warming. Many things are contributing to the loss of the ecosystem's species, plants, and water. This web page will inform about ecosystems and how they are being destroyed by global warming. With global warming on the rise, and species and habitats decreasing, the chances for ecosystems adapting naturally are diminishing. Many different parts of ecosystems are being affected. Global warming could have many impacts on fish and other aquatic species.
In ecosystems where species losses fall within intermediate projections of 21 to 40 percent of species, however, species loss is expected to reduce plant growth by 5 to 10 percent. The effect is comparable to the expected effects of climate warming and increased ultraviolet radiation due to stratospheric ozone loss. 