A constitutional amendment refers to the modification of the Constitution of a nation or state. In many jurisdictions the text of the constitution itself is altered; in others the text is not changed, but the amendments change its effect. The method of modification is typically written into the Constitution itself. The constitution does not provide many rules for the operation of the constitutional convention. With the initiative method, an amendment is proposed by a petition signed by voters equal in number to 8% of the votes for all candidates for governor at the last gubernatorial election.
Both are described (article five) within the constitution itself. Congress can pass an amendment with a 2/3 vote (both houses) and it can then be ratified by the states (3/4 of the states – 38 of 50) or the states can call a constitutional convention and pass them themselves without congress. The stupid Senate cannot repeal anything in the Constitution. That takes a Constitutional Amendment and passing that takes two thirds of the state legislatures. Harry the liar Reid can just hold his breath on that one. I’m sure such an attempt will really help him in the November elections.
The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed. Section 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited. 
Article V of the Constitution outlines how to amend (modify) the document. It consists of two steps: proposal and ratification. 1. Propose An Amendment. Either Congress or the States can propose an amendment ot the Constitution. See the Constitution As Amended, including the full text of the six amendments not ratified by the States. By Kathy Gill. 1  Both Houses of Congress must propose the amendment with a two-thirds vote. 2  This is how all current amendments have been offered. 3  Two-thirds of the State legislatures must call on Congress to hold a Constitutional Conven
An amendment may take the form of a change of the Bundes-Verfassungsgesetz, the centerpiece of the constitution, a change to another constitutional act, a new constitutional act, or of a section of constitutional law in a non-constitutional act. The constitution does not provide many rules for the operation of the constitutional convention. With the initiative method, an amendment is proposed by a petition signed by voters equal in number to 8% of the votes for all candidates for governor at the last gubernatorial election.
Congress, Obama, and the Supreme Court will be bypassed and Obamacare will be repealed using the ultimate weapon available to the states: a state-initiated and ratified amendment to the United States Constitution that essentially declares, Obamacare is repealed. We propose that the States repeal Obamacare by amending the United States Constitution using the process described in Article V. Article V empowers the states to propose and then ratify amendments to the U.S. Constitution without the consent of the federal government.
An amendment can be proposed by the Congress if two-thirds of the members of both the House of Representatives and the Senate vote in favor of it. Alternatively, two-thirds of the legislatures of the fifty states can call for a constitutional convention for the purposes of proposing amendments to the Constitution. Once an amendment to the Constitution has been proposed, it must be ratified to become valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of [the] Constitution.. Article V specifies two methods by which proposed amendments can by ratified.
After Congress proposes an amendment, the Archivist of the United States, who heads the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), is charged with responsibility for administering the ratification process under the provisions of 1 U.S.C. 106b. The OFR retains these documents until an amendment is adopted or fails, and then transfers the records to the National Archives for preservation. A proposed amendment becomes part of the Constitution as soon as it is ratified by three-fourths of the States (38 of 50 States).