This mantle is made up of silicates. If the planet’s core is liquid then its mantle is closer to the consistency of soft rock paste that is less dense than its core. This mantle is then covered by a crust which can vary in terms of thickness from 50 km to 125 km. This is comparably thicker than the Earth’s own crust which averages 40 km. Known as the red planet, Mars is nearly half the size of the Earth. Its outer surface is composed of mostly basalt that was brought to the surface by ancient volcanoes, which were active during the planet’s early history.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Mars is made of rock and iron oxides. It's surface is covered in mountains, volcanoes, valleys, ice caps and dried up river beds. Mars is also very dry like a desert. It is also red because of the iron oxide in the pulverized rock dust. Mars' atmosphere is mostly made up of a thin layer of carbon dioxide, which makes up 95.32% of the atmosphere, with 2.7% of nitrogen and then very small amounts of other gases … such as argon, oxygen, carbon monoxide and water vapor. + 40 others found this useful.
Mars is the red planet for a very good reason: its surface is made of a thick layer of oxidized iron dust and rocks of the same color. Maybe another name for Mars could be Rusty.. But the ruddy surface does not tell the whole story of the composition of this world. The center of Mars likely has a solid core composed of iron, nickel, and sulfur. It is estimated to be between 1,800 and 2,400 miles (3,000 and 4,000 kilometers) in diameter. The core does not move, and therefore Mars has no magnetic field.
Besides silicon and oxygen, the most abundant elements in the Martian crust are iron, magnesium, aluminum, calcium, and potassium. Oxidation of the iron dust is what gives the surface its reddish hue. Composite image showing the size difference between Earth and Mars. Credit: NASA/Mars Exploration. The interior of Mars, showing a molten liquid iron core similar to Earth and Venus. Image Credit: NASA/JPL. For thousands of years, human beings have stared up at the sky and wondered about the Red Planet.
Like Earth, the interior of Mars has undergone a process known as differentiation. This is where a planet, due to its physical or chemical compositions, forms into layers, with denser materials concentrated at the center and less dense materials closer to the surface. The interior of Mars, showing a molten liquid iron core similar to Earth and Venus. Image Credit: NASA/JPL. For thousands of years, human beings have stared up at the sky and wondered about the Red Planet.
Mars has two small moons, called Phobos and Deimos. The planet Mars is made of rock. The ground there is red because of iron oxide (rust) in the rocks and dust. The planet's atmosphere is very thin and contains a lot of carbon dioxide and a very tiny amount of oxygen.