The generic Methotrexate is manufactured by 35 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. Please also note that Medindia's database currently has 109 Brands of Generics of Methotrexate listed. Disclaimer: The Price of the drugs indicated above may not match the actual price at which they are sold. Prices can change depending on many factors, including local taxes.
METHOTREXATE is a chemotherapy drug. This medicine affects cells that are rapidly growing, such as cancer cells and cells in your mouth and stomach. It is used to treat many cancers and other medical conditions. It is used for leukemias, lymphomas, breast cancer, lung cancer, head and neck cancers, and other cancers. This medicine also works on the immune system and is commonly used to treat psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis. If used for arthritis or psoriasis, the drug is only given once a week.
methotrexate. METHOTREXATE is a chemotherapy drug. This medicine affects cells that are rapidly growing, such as cancer cells and cells in your mouth and stomach. It is used to treat many cancers and other medical conditions. It is used for leukemias, lymphomas, breast cancer, lung cancer, head and neck cancers, and other cancers. GoodRx's cash prices are based on multiple sources, including published price lists, purchases, claims records, and data provided by pharmacies. Our discount and coupon prices are based on contracts between a pharmacy (or pharmacy purchasing group) and a Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM), who provides prices to us.
Trexall is the brand name of methotrexate sodium, a drug prescribed to treat psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis. Trexall is known to produce toxic and sometimes fatal reactions in gastrointestinal, blood, neurologic, pulmonary, and dermatologic systems. For instance, it can cause seizures, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (a rare yet severe disorder of the skin and mucous membranes), and methotrexate-induced lung disease.
Methotrexate has an unusual history. What began as a drug for the treatment of cancer, particularly childhood leukemia, is now used to treat a wide variety of immunologic disorders. 1 The use of methotrexate in the treatment of psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis dates from the 1960s. The dose packs consist of four cards with two, three, four, five or six 2.5-mg tablets. The cost for a weekly dose (7.5 to 15.0 mg) of methotrexate tablets ranges from $6 to $15 for the generic product and from $9 to $22 for Rheumatrex. The weekly cost for methotrexate injection (generic only) ranges from $6 to $25
Biologic drugs for rheumatoid arthritis work for 2 out of 3 people who take them for RA. These genetically engineered drugs often slow or halt the progression of joint damage, and they may even push RA into remission. But the drugs are expensive; they cost about $1,000 to $3,000 a month. Even with health insurance, your out-of-pocket costs can add up to hundreds or thousands of dollars.
Report This | Share this:Huge price increase for methotrexateMy price for methotrexate 2.5 mg pills was 54.73 in January, 62.88 on May 2, and 182.55 on July 26! My wife has RA. In the last three months the price of her oral methotrexate has increased by a factor of ten! Several alternate sources were checked and the story is the same everywhere.