Full Definition of FEMALE. 1. a: a female person: a woman or a girl b: an individual that bears young or produces large usually immobile gametes (as eggs) that are fertilized by small usually motile gametes of a male. 2. : a pistillate plant. 2 female. noun. : a woman or a girl: a female person. : an animal that can produce young or lay eggs: a female animal. : a plant that can produce seed or fruit: a female plant.
Female genital mutilation (FGM), also known as female genital cutting and female circumcision, is the ritual removal of some or all of the external female genitalia. 
female. adj. 1. (Zoology) of, relating to, or designating the sex producing gametes (ova) that can be fertilized by male gametes (spermatozoa). 2. of, relating to, or characteristic of a woman: female charm. 3. for or composed of women or girls: female suffrage; a female choir. 4. (Biology) (of reproductive organs such as the ovary and carpel) capable of producing female gametes. 5. You can also use female as a noun to talk about animals. The male fertilizes the female's eggs. He saw a family of lions  a big male, a beautiful female, and two cubs. In scientific contexts, female is sometimes used as a noun to refer to women or girls.
female-for or pertaining to or composed of women or girls; the female lead in the play; a female chorus. female-being the sex (of plant or animal) that produces fertilizable gametes (ova) from which offspring develop; a female heir; female holly trees bear the berries. You can also use female as a noun to talk about animals. The male fertilizes the female's eggs. He saw a family of lions  a big male, a beautiful female, and two cubs. In scientific contexts, female is sometimes used as a noun to refer to women or girls.
A male (♂) organism is the physiological sex that produces sperm. Each spermatozoon can fuse with a larger female gamete, or ovum, in the process of fertilization. A male cannot reproduce sexually without access to at least one ovum from a female, but some organisms can reproduce both sexually and asexually.
• FEMALE (noun). The noun FEMALE has 2 senses: 1. an animal that produces gametes (ova) that can be fertilized by male gametes (spermatozoa). 2. a person who belongs to the sex that can have babies. Familiarity information: FEMALE used as a noun is rare. 1. being the sex (of plant or animal) that produces fertilizable gametes (ova) from which offspring develop. 2. characteristic of or peculiar to a woman. 3. for or pertaining to or composed of women or girls. Familiarity information: FEMALE used as an adjective is uncommon.
fe•male. 1. a person of the sex whose cell nuclei contain two X chromosomes and who is normally able to conceive and bear young; a girl or woman. 2. any organism of the sex or sexual phase that normally produces egg cells. 3. a plant having a pistil or pistils. You can also use female as a noun to talk about animals. The male fertilizes the female's eggs. He saw a family of lions  a big male, a beautiful female, and two cubs. In scientific contexts, female is sometimes used as a noun to refer to women or girls.
Full Definition of FEMALE. 1. a (1) : of, relating to, or being the sex that bears young or produces eggs (2) : pistillate. 2. : having some quality (as gentleness) associated with the female sex. 3. 2 female. noun. : a woman or a girl: a female person. : an animal that can produce young or lay eggs: a female animal. : a plant that can produce seed or fruit: a female plant.
The symbol of the Roman goddess Venus (goddess of love) is often used to represent the female sex and is the alchemical symbol for copper. Female (♀) is the sex of an organism, or a part of an organism, that produces non-mobile ova (egg cells). Most female mammals, including female humans, have two X chromosomes. A Y sperm and an X egg produce a male, while an X sperm and an X egg produce a female. The ZW sex-determination system, where males have ZZ (as opposed to ZW) sex chromosomes, is found in birds, reptiles and some insects and other organisms.