Forensic anthropology applies knowledge of biological or physical anthropology to the legal process. Forensic scientists specialize in the analysis of skeletal remains. They assist law enforcement investigators in identifying human remains and even aided war crimes investigations in Bosnia. Graduate Degree. After completing a bachelor's degree, the aspiring forensic anthropologist should apply for admission to a graduate program in the field and pursue a Ph.D. or at least a master's degree in the field.
Students who want to become forensic anthropologists will find that they have a number of different courses that they will likely have to take at forensic anthropology schools. Some of the most common courses include chemistry, biology, biochemistry, forensic anthropology, and even field archeology. 
According to the American Board of Forensic Anthropology (ABFA), individuals need a bachelor's degree in anthropology or a related field and a master's degree in anthropology to meet the minimum requirements to work as a forensic anthropologist (www.theabfa.org). Forensic Anthropologist: Job Description, Outlook and Salary. Forensic anthropologists require significant formal education. Learn about the training, job duties and requirements to see if this is the right career for you.
Graduate Courses. Graduate courses to become a forensic anthropologist involve numerous classes in physical anthropology, focusing on various physical aspects of human beings, such as bones, evolution, development, nutrition and disease. 
Being a forensic Anthropologist requires a great deal of educational preparation. You need a bachelor's Degree in a subject Such as Chemistry, Biology, Anatomy, Physiology, or Anthropology, and a Grauate Degree, Preferably a doctorate in anthropology or human biology. You need a PhD and at least three years of experience in forensic anthropology when seeking board certification in the field.
Forensic anthropology is a specialized field that requires a graduate-level degree in anthropology, as well as extensive study in the physical sciences, including biology, physiology and genetics. Graduate Degree. After completing a bachelor's degree, the aspiring forensic anthropologist should apply for admission to a graduate program in the field and pursue a Ph.D. or at least a master's degree in the field.
The first step toward becoming a forensic anthropologist is to earn a bachelor's degree in anthropology. A strong undergraduate program should include courses in the three main subfields of anthropology, according to Dr. A. Midori Albert, a forensic anthropologist at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. Graduate Degree. After completing a bachelor's degree, the aspiring forensic anthropologist should apply for admission to a graduate program in the field and pursue a Ph.D. or at least a master's degree in the field.
Requirements to Become a Forensics Anthropologist. This is a career requiring extensive education. You will need a bachelor’s degree in anatomy, biology, chemistry, physiology or anthropology as well as a graduate degree in human biology or anthropology. Though a degree at the Master’s level may qualify you to begin your investigative career, most forensic anthropologists have a Ph.D. degree
The testing for forensic anthropology students is anything but easy. Many students are required to write a thesis in their second year during a Master s of Science program, and some schools will provide rigorous testing for long periods of time during the first year. Forensic Anthropology Schools. If you ve decided that forensic anthropology is your ideal future career, then you ll need to choose from some really great forensic anthropology schools. However, this kind of education and training is not for the faint of heart.