Small wind turbines are typically installed between 15 and 40 m high. The average wind speeds indicated on this map are model-derived estimates that may not represent the true wind resource at any given location. Small terrain features, vegetation, buildings, and atmospheric effects may cause the wind speed to depart from the map estimates. This map shows the predicted mean annual wind speeds at a 30-m height, presented at a spatial resolution of 2 kilometers that is interpolated to a finer scale.
Because of the wind’s normal variability, and the effect of this variability on the cube of the wind speed, the power equation should only be used for instantaneous or hourly wind speeds and not for long-term averages. To illustrate why, consider two places where the average speed is 15 mph. At the first location the wind always blows at 15 mph, giving a power density of 189 W/m2. At the second site the speed fluctuates. The wind is at 10 mph half the time (power density = 56 W/m2), and at 20 mph the other half (power density = 448 W/m2).
Windspeed Website Information. The purpose of the “Windspeed Website” is to provide users with a site-specific windspeed that are used in the determination of design wind loads for buildings and other structures. On this website, users can obtain windspeeds compatible with ASCE 7-10, ASCE 7-05, and ASCE 7-93. 
Because the power in the wind has a cubic relationship to wind speed, a site with an average 15 mph wind speed contains nearly 100 percent more energy than a site with an average wind speed of 12 mph. A wind speed that is 25% greater will have almost 100% more energy, and so a wind whose speed is 20% lower will have only about 50% of the energy.
Wind. The average daily wind speed in October has been around 9 km/h, that’s the equivalent to about 6 mph, or 5 knots. In recent years the maximum sustained wind speed has reached 56 km/h, that’s the equivalent of around 35 mph, or 30 knots. On average the month of October is affected by foggy conditions on less than 1 day. The temperature of water an individual will feel comfortable in is very much personal preference.
About the 30-Meter Wind Resource Maps. This map shows the predicted mean annual wind speeds at a 30-m height, presented at a spatial resolution of 2 kilometers that is interpolated to a finer scale.
In the real world, the wind varies constantly. Actual wind power density at most sites can range from 1.7 times to 3 times greater than that calculated from only the mean wind speed. For a typical 15 mph site in Iowa, the actual average wind power density is about 400 W/m2. At the first location the wind always blows at 15 mph, giving a power density of 189 W/m2. At the second site the speed fluctuates. The wind is at 10 mph half the time (power density = 56 W/m2), and at 20 mph the other half (power density = 448 W/m2).
1 2-19 Certainty rating of the wind resource estimates for areas with Class 4 or higher wind power in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands. 2  2-20 Percent of the land area estimated to have Class 3 or higher wind power in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands. 1 2-11 Percent of the land area estimated to have a Class 4 or higher wind power in the contiguous United States. 2  2-12 Winter wind resource estimates in the contiguous United States. 3  2-13 Spring
Dataset Tabs Default Display. This tool produces maps showing patterns of average monthly wind speed and direction for the contiguous United States from 1950 to the present. Maps show the average (mean) wind speed as well as two components of wind direction: U-wind represents the east-west component of wind and V-wind represents the north-south component.
The average wind speeds indicated on this map are model-derived estimates that may not represent the true wind resource at any given location. Small terrain features, vegetation, buildings, and atmospheric effects may cause the wind speed to depart from the map estimates. Click on a state to view the wind map for that state. Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands do not have 80-meter height wind maps available but have 50-meter height wind maps.