Currently there are over 735 restaurant locations in the United States, primarily throughout the Southern part of the country. Whataburger prices are comparable to other fast food restaurant chains such as McDonald’s and Burger King despite being perceived as higher quality than those two restaurant chains. Whataburger’s menu includes hamburgers such as a Whataburger, Whataburger Jr., Justaburger, and Whatachick’n
Whataburger Prices. Whataburger is a fast food restaurant specializing in hamburgers. Currently there are over 735 restaurant locations in the United States, primarily throughout the Southern part of the country. Whataburger prices are comparable to other fast food restaurant chains such as McDonald’s and Burger King despite being perceived as higher quality than those two restaurant chains. Whataburger’s menu includes hamburgers such as a Whataburger, Whataburger Jr., Justaburger, and Whatachick’n
Corpus Christi, Texas-based Whataburger Restaurants Lp. hires for positions ranging from Restaurant Manager to Cashier in the restaurant. Whataburger Restaurants Lp. workers earn an average of $9.13 per hour normally and $18.61 during overtime hours. The largest slice of the Whataburger Restaurants Lp. workforce (64 percent) has been working for one to four years and earns, on average, about $8.91 per hour. Servsafe food manager certifications earn $12.45 per hour, far more than their non-accredited counterparts.
McDonalds Prices. McDonald’s is the largest hamburger fast food chain in the world serving food in about 120 countries. The company was founded in 1940 by two brothers, Richard McDonald and Maurice McDonald. Today, McDonalds prices are very competitive with the rest of the fast food industry. McDonalds sells many types of foods including hamburgers, french fries, chicken, cheeseburgers, soft drinks, and salads. They also have a value menu which sells products for only $1 a piece. 
A Great Company, A Great Burger. Those simple ideas have guided us through more than 55 years of Whataburger history, which began in 1950 when Harmon Dobson opened the first Whataburger in Corpus Christi, Texas. 
Financial Analysis: The required start up costs for a Whataburger franchise are $600,000 which includes the construction of the building. The average sales per unit of a Whataburger is $1,709,000/yr 2 with a projected growth of 4.1%. The average monthly franchise fee for the food industry is 5%. The average profit margin for the fast food, and more specifically the burger industry, is around 15% 3. So with the profit margin and the franchise fee the operating expenses should be roughly 90% of the revenue.
134. Comparable to the menus of most fast food burger joints, the Whataburger menu sells a diverse selection of burgers, sandwiches, drinks, frozen treats and more. The prices at a Whataburger are typically slightly higher than a McDonald’s or Wendy’s, but the quality of food is also higher. 
Whataburger Menu Prices. Whataburger is an American restaurant which is famous for its hamburgers. The company was founded by Paul Burton and Harmon Dobson, and they started the first restaurant in 1950. Now, there are 735 stores as of September 2012 which are run by the Dobson family, along with 25 franchises. The company was known for its orange and white framed roof setting
How Food and Labor Costs are Calculated. Food and labor costs are calculated as a percentage of the total volume of sales. If a restaurant does $20,000 per week and the total cost of food and beverages is $7,000 for that week, then the food cost is considered 35 percent. If, at the same restaurant, labor (including payroll taxes and benefits) equal $5,000 for the week, then the labor cost is 25 percent. Total prime costs are 60 percent in this example. Related Reading: How to Control Cost of Food & Labor in a Restaurant Service.