In simple terms, a chit fund is an arrangement that a group of people arrive at to contribute money in a defined manner at periodic intervals into a pool or a kitty. Here is a quick look at what chit funds are and whether it’s a suitable instrument to park your money. While unorganised chit funds that may be run informally among family, friends or acquaintances are still common, there are organised and regulated chit funds, too, which are any day safer. Unorganised chit funds.
What is a Chit Fund? A Chit Fund is a kind of savings scheme practiced in India. This video will give an idea about Chit Fund and how you can grow your money by investing in Chit Fund. Sree Gowri Ganeshaa Chits Private Limited an ISO certified chit fund company is the best place for you to go and do savings. 
Investing It! What is a Chit Fund and How Does it Work. Chit funds have been a popular savings scheme in several parts of India for generations together now. It has paved it’s way as a convenient finance option amongst businessmen, small scale industrialists, and other small time investors. A chit fund is a savings *** borrowing scheme, in which a group of people enter into an agreement to contribute fixed amounts periodically, for a specified period of time. The amount so collected (or the chit value) is distributed among each of the persons in turns, which is determined by way of lots or an auction.
A chit fund is a savings cum borrowings scheme, wherein group of individuals contribute pre-determined amount for a pre-determined period. Every month until the end of the tenure collected money is loaned internally through bidding to a member who deserves. A Chit Fund can be either registered or unregistered. 1  Registered Chit funds are organized by Chit Fund firms/companies and regulated by the Chit Fund Act. 2  Unregistered Chit Funds are unorganized and run by friends, relatives or personal groups.
Such chit fund schemes may be conducted by organised financial institutions, or may be unorganised schemes conducted between friends or relatives. In some variations of chit funds, the savings are for a specific purpose. Chit funds also played an important role in the financial development of people of south Indian state of Kerala, by providing easier access to credit. In Kerala, chitty (chit fund) is a common phenomenon practiced by all sections of the society. A chit fund company is a company that manages, conducts, or supervises a chit scheme—as defined in Section of the Chit Funds Act, 1982. According to Section 2(b) of the Chit Fund Act, 1982:
Concept of Chit Fund: The Chit Fund concept is a totally Indian concept but the system has now won universal acclaim. It is a fraternity fund which is a ’2 in1′ savings cum lending instrument. 
There are various such financial schemes such as chit funds, multi-level marketing schemes or ponzi schemes which are all different from one another. Here is a quick look at what chit funds are and whether it’s a suitable instrument to park your money. While unorganised chit funds that may be run informally among family, friends or acquaintances are still common, there are organised and regulated chit funds, too, which are any day safer. Unorganised chit funds.
There are lots of chit funds in india like shriram chit funds, margadarsi chit funds and I would like to show you how chit funds exactly work and what are pros and cons in Chit funds. Over the past many years there has been large scale frauds and scams done by large chit fund companies. Chit fund companies are regulated in most of the states by Central Chit Funds act,1982 and they come under the purview of state governements. RBI has no role in regulating them. But still you know how easy it is to do frauds and scams in India (don’t forget commonwealth & 2G and 3G and 4G scams, wah ! I am futuristic).
A CHIT FUND is a kind of savings scheme practiced in India. A chit fund company is a company that manages, conducts, or supervises a chit scheme—as defined in Section of the Chit Funds Act, 1982. According to Section 2(b) of the Chit Fund Act, 1982: