The deepest part of the epidermis also contains melanocytes. These cells produce melanin, which gives the skin its color. The other main layer of the skin is the dermis, the inner layer of skin, that contains blood and lymph vessels, hair follicles, and glands. These glands produce sweat, which helps regulate body temperature, and sebum, an oily substance that helps keep the skin from drying out. 
The thickest layer of skin, the dermis is made up of cells that produce two proteins, collagen and elastin, that give your skin both strength and flexibility. The dermis is the thick layer of skin underneath the dry surface layer of the skin. It contributes a lot to how we look and changes in the dermis make us look older. Watch the animation to see all the skin structures.
The dermis is tightly connected to the epidermis through a basement membrane. Structural components of the dermis are collagen, elastic fibers, and extrafibrillar matrix. It also contains Mechanoreceptors that provide the sense of touch and thermoreceptors that provide the sense of heat. In addition, hair follicles, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, apocrine glands, lymphatic vessels and blood vessels are present in the dermis. Those blood vessels provide nourishment and waste removal for both dermal and epidermal cells.
The dermis is the middle layer of skin. It is the thickest skin layer and is made up of two sublayers that contain small blood and lymph vessels, nerves, hair follicles, sweat and oil glands, and nerve receptors to sense touch, temperature, pressure, position, and pain. The dermis is the thick layer of skin underneath the dry surface layer of the skin. It contributes a lot to how we look and changes in the dermis make us look older. Watch the animation to see all the skin structures.
The dermis is the second, or middle, layer of a person's skin. It contains fibers of collagen and elastin, which are important proteins. The collagen and elastin in this layer of skin form a durable mesh-like layer. The dermis contains fibers of collagen and elastin, which deplete as a person ages. A diagram of younger skin and older skin showing the different layers. Most anti-aging creams are too dense to penetrate to the demis. The dermis is below the epidermis, or the top layer of skin.
The dermis is the inner layer of the skin, and includes: hair follicles, nerves, sweat glands, small blood vessels and sebaceous glands. It is made up of connective tissue and consists of two layers, the stratum papillare (upper layer) and the stratum reticulare. The dermis acts as a supporting structure for the epidermis and contains proteins such as collagen and elastin. These provide the skin with strength, the ability to stretch and the ability to return to its original shape.
The dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which it makes up the cutis) and subcutaneous tissues, that consists of connective tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. In addition, hair follicles, sweat glands, sebaceous glands, apocrine glands, lymphatic vessels and blood vessels are present in the dermis. Those blood vessels provide nourishment and waste removal for both dermal and epidermal cells.
Dermis: The lower or inner layer of the two main layers of cells that make up the skin.The dermis contains blood vessels, lymph vessels, hair follicles, and glands that produce sweat, which helps regulate body temperature, and sebum, an oily substance that helps keep the skin from drying out. 
dermis, the layer of the skin just below the epidermis, consisting of papillary and reticular layers and containing blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves and nerve endings, glands, and hair follicles. Formerly called corium. dermal, adj. dermis. the corium; the principal layer of skin between the epidermis and the subcutaneous tissue; made up mostly of a network of collagen fibers but also containing nerves, blood vessels, cells and other fibers. It is divided into papillary and reticular parts, and when tanned forms leather. hoof dermis