Raw hamburgers should only be kept in the freezer for four months, three months longer than bacon, which only makes it to a month. Fried chicken makes it to four months and other cooked poultry dishes can be safely frozen from between four to six months. Pizza for two months, ice-cream for eight weeks and eggs for 28 days: How long you should store food in your freezer revealed. 1  Preserving food in cold temperatures is the best way to cut down on waste. 2  Use freezer labels when you store cooked food to keep track of dates.
For optimal quality and nutrient retention, keep frozen baby food cubes in the freezer for a maximum of 3 months. Baby food cubes are safe to remain in the freezer from 3 to 6 months. Using baby food cubes within 1 month to 3 months is really more prudent. Many authoritative guidelines will say that most fruits and veggies will keep from 8 to 12 months in the freezer. This is mostly true of foods that are frozen in their natural state. This is also assuming that the freezer remains at a constant sub-zero temperature.
How long food keeps. Keeping foods in your pantry and freezer is often as simple as checking the expiration date on the package. For foods you've prepared yourself, it's not quite as clear cut. How you package your foodstuffs can make a difference too. 
Good luck. Source(s): lots of foods once opened will tell you on packaging how long. If kept closed up to 3 months, providing the temp. in your freezer is set right also. darkgodzion69 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
How Long Can I Store Frozen Foods. Freezing cannot improve the flavor or texture of any food, but when properly done it can preserve most of the quality of the fresh product. Knowing how long a particular food can be stored in the freezer is not as simple as it sounds. 1 Freeze foods as soon as they are packed and sealed. 2  Do not overload the freezer with unfrozen food. 3  Leave space among new, warm packages so the cold air can circulate freely around them. 4  When the food is frozen, stack and store the packages close together if desired.
Note that these times only refer to how long your frozen food will still be of excellent quality when you finally get around to eating it: It's not a safety issue. Frozen food will safely keep in the freezer indefinitely. But its flavor and texture will be vastly better if you stick to these maximum storage times. The following lists will give you clear instructions for how long each type of food can be stored in the freezer before its quality starts to decline (think freezer burn).
As a general rule of thumb, frozen food will keep for three months in a standard home freezer before starting to show signs of freezer burn. This is true for raw meats, cooked meats, prepared foods, breads, and anything else you might think of freezing. There's a short and a long answer here. The short answer is that foods will keep indefinitely in a frozen state. That's right — as long as your freezer is plugged in and functioning normally, frozen foods will never expire, go bad, or pose any health issues.
A freezer full of food will usually keep about 2 days if the door is kept shut; a half-full freezer will last about a day. The freezing compartment in a refrigerator may not keep foods frozen as long. If the freezer is not full, quickly group packages together so they will retain the cold more effectively. Eat those foods as soon as possible for best quality. Use a free-standing freezer set at 0 °F or below for long-term storage of frozen foods. Keep an appliance thermometer in your freezing compartment or freezer to check the temperature.
In the refrigerator, it is recommended that fresh pureed homemade baby food be stored no longer than 48 hours (many food safety authorities say that 72 hour is fine.). This limit ensures that bacteria growth in the puree is kept to a minimum and that the food does not take on the “taste of the fridge”. Many authoritative guidelines will say that most fruits and veggies will keep from 8 to 12 months in the freezer. This is mostly true of foods that are frozen in their natural state. This is also assuming that the freezer remains at a constant sub-zero temperature.