Treatment options for uncomplicated urogenital infections include a single 1-g dose of azithromycin orally, or doxycycline at a dosage of 100 mg orally twice per day for seven days. The recommended treatment during pregnancy is erythromycin base or amoxicillin. If symptoms suggest recurrent or persistent urethritis, the CDC recommends treatment with 2 g metronidazole (Flagyl) orally in a single dose plus 500 mg erythromycin base orally four times per day for seven days, or 800 mg erythromycin ethylsuccinate orally four times
Question 13: Are the recommendations for positive pharyngeal GC to give a single 250 mg. injection of ceftriaxone and a single 1 g. dose of azithromycin? Answer: Ceftriaxone in a single injection of 250 mg. PLUS azithromycin OR doxycycline is now recommended for gonococcal infection of the pharynx. Gonococcal infections of the pharynx are more difficult to eradicate than infections at urogenital and anorectal sites. This treatment also maximizes patient compliance. Ceftriaxone at a dose of 250 mg. given as dual therapy with azithromycin or doxycycline remains the recommended, preferred therapy for all forms of gonorrhea whenever possible.
The most effective treatment for uncomplicated gonorrhea is combination therapy with ceftriaxone 250 mg intramuscularly and either azithromycin 1 gram orally as a single dose or doxycycline 100 mg orally twice daily for seven days. This treatment also maximizes patient compliance. Ceftriaxone at a dose of 250 mg. given as dual therapy with azithromycin or doxycycline remains the recommended, preferred therapy for all forms of gonorrhea whenever possible.
In a use-effectiveness study at seven public health clinics, doxycycline and azithromycin were equivalent for treating genital chlamydia infection and preventing recurrences. [3] Studies have shown chlamydia cure rates of 98% with 5 days of doxycycline therapy or 8 to 10 of the prescribed 14 doxycycline pills. Efficacy. In research studies, doxycycline and azithromycin have been shown to be equivalent for the treatment of genital chlamydia infection. [2] A meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials showed equal efficacy with no difference in adverse events.
OR. Ofloxacin 300 mg orally twice a day for 7 days. A meta-analysis of 12 randomized clinical trials of azithromycin versus doxycycline for the treatment of genital chlamydial infection demonstrated that the treatments were equally efficacious, with microbial cure rates of 97% and 98%, respectively (284). Treatment. Treating infected patients prevents sexual transmission of the disease, and treating all sex partners of those testing positive for chlamydia can prevent reinfection of the index patient and infection of other partners.
Uncomplicated infections of the pharynx Ceftriaxone PLUS Azithromycin or Doxycycline 250 mg IM in a single dose 1 g orally in a single dose 100 mg orally BID x 7 days Although chlamydial coinfection of the pharynx is unusual, coinfection at genital sites sometimes occurs. Spectinomycin 3 2 g IM in a single dose or a single-dose cephalosporin regimen (ceftizoxime 500 mg IM or cefoxitin 2 g IM with 1 g probenecid orally or cefotaxime 500 mg IM) or azithromycin 2 g orally in a single dose.
Doxycycline. Doxycycline is an antibiotic used to treat chlamydia infection. It is used mainly as an alternative to the antibiotic azithromycin. Doxycycline is equally as effective as azithromycin, but whereas azithromycin is a single dose treatment, doxycycline treatment needs to be taken twice daily for 7 days. 1  Avoid sexual contact whilst taking doxycycline and for 7 days afterwards, until no longer infectious. 2  People with a positive chlamydia test and their sexual partners should be ... Alternative antibiotic. The most frequently used antibiotic for the treatment of chlamydia is azithromycin taken as a single dose. Azithromycin is preferred by most doctors and patients because it is a single dose, although it is more expensive than doxycycline.
Michael L. Rekart, MD, DTM&H, MHSc. In the 1998 Canadian Sexually Transmitted Disease (STD) Guidelines, azithromycin (1.0 gm orally as a single dose) replaced doxycycline (100 mg orally twice a day for 7 days) as treatment of choice for chlamydia infection. Efficacy. In research studies, doxycycline and azithromycin have been shown to be equivalent for the treatment of genital chlamydia infection. [2] A meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials showed equal efficacy with no difference in adverse events.
Chlamydia in pregnancy Azithromycin or Amoxicillin 1 g orally in a single dose 500 mg orally TID x 7 days Erythromycin base 500 mg orally QID x 7 days or erythromycin base 250 mg orally QID x 14 days or EES 800 mg orally QID x 7 days or EES 400 mg orally QID x 14 days. Spectinomycin 3 2 g IM in a single dose or a single-dose cephalosporin regimen (ceftizoxime 500 mg IM or cefoxitin 2 g IM with 1 g probenecid orally or cefotaxime 500 mg IM) or azithromycin 2 g orally in a single dose.