Name Origin. The dahlia originated in Mexico, where a group of Spanish adventurers discovered it in the 16th century. The common name “dahlia” derives from the surname of the Swedish botanist, Andreas/Anders Dahl (1751 to 1789). In 1789, the Spanish botanist, Abbe Cavanilles, who became director of the Royal Gardens in Madrid, created this name after receiving dahlia seeds. Dahlia is also the genus name of this beautiful flower. There are over 20 known Dahlia species and thousands of hybrids developed from them. The most common hybrids are a cross between Dahlia pinnata and Dahlia coccinea, two of the earliest named species.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Dahlia. The Dahlia is the national flower of Mexico. It was named after a Swedish botanist named Andres Dahl. Incidentally, the Swedish word “dal” means “valley” and the Dahlia is often referred to as the “valley flower”. Prized for its beauty, the Dahlia typically symbolizes elegance and dignity.
The Bulgarian variant of Dahlia and Dalia is Daliya. In Bulgarian daliya means dahlia. That is why Daliya has a nameday on Palm Sunday (the Sunday before Easter) - the day of flowers and willows (the names of the other trees also have a nameday). In the Victorian language of flowers, the Dahlia signified elegance and/or dignity. Fitting-I think the name itself conveys both elegance and dignity as well. -- SeaHorse15 4/9/2009. I met a very fortunate person with this name.
Notes: Black Dahlia was the name of a famous murder case in 1940's Los Angeles. The flower was named after a famous botanist who discovered it named A. Dahl. Dahlia Stats. 
The name Dahlia is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Dahlia is: From the valley. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
Dahlia /dah-lia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced DAL-yah. It is of Swedish and Scandinavian origin, and the meaning of Dahlia is valley. Also the flower named for 18th-century Swedish botanist Anders Dahl. Kreatif forms: Daihlia, Dehlia, Dohlia. Shown below is the baby name popularity of Dahlia for girls. Dahlia was first listed in 2006 and reached its highest rank of #438 in the U.S. in 2013, and is at #445 currently.
What does Dahlia mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Dahlia is of Scandinavian origin. The meaning of Dahlia is flower name. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is dahlia flower. 
Valley flower is another name for the dahlia because dahl means valley.. Dahlia is also the genus name of this beautiful flower. There are over 20 known Dahlia species and thousands of hybrids developed from them. The most common hybrids are a cross between Dahlia pinnata and Dahlia coccinea, two of the earliest named species.
Dahlia is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#2344 out of 4276, Top 55%) but an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Dahlia for girls. Dahlia was first listed in 2006 and reached its highest rank of #438 in the U.S. in 2013, and is at #445 currently.
Hello, Guest. One of the flower names, used occasionally in Britain (where it's pronounced DAY-lee-a). It seems to have recovered from what was perceived as a slightly affected la-di-dah air -- it climbed into the top 500 over the past two years. The flower was named in honor of the pioneering Swedish botanist Anders Dahl, which means dale. In the Victorian language of flowers, Dahlia denotes elegance and dignity. In P.G. Wodehouse's Jeeves stories, Dahlia is Bertie Wooster's more sympathetic aunt, described as being constructed along the lines of Mae West. Reporter Dahlia Lithwick covers legal matters for the online magazine Slate