State law also says a child must be at least 13 years old to baby-sit another child. Generally, it is left up to the parent to decide whether a child who is at least eight is mature enough to be home alone. Any time you leave your child alone, be sure the child knows what to do in case of an emergency.
Basically, if your child is age seven or younger, they should never be left alone. Kids ages 8-10 can be alone briefly, and ages 10-13 for longer periods, provided there is back-up supervision. Babysitters should be at least 12-13 years old, and can babysit for longer periods as they grow older. Again, this is a very individual decision, and these ages are only general guidelines. You need to decide if your child is mature enough.
Maturity Check. Most states don't have laws stipulating how old a child needs to be to stay home alone. So the decision is left up to the parents' judgment. It's pretty obvious to most parents that a 5-year-old is too young to be left alone in the house.
If so I would say at least 12 or 13. I started babysitting when I was 13, and it was fine. On the other hand if you mean just for 5 or ten minutes to run a quick errand, then it is up to you. I personally have a very mature 10 year old whom I have left with her 3 year old sister for 5 or 10 minutes.
Older Children. If you are looking to babysit for older children, say from age 10 and up, you will want to be much older than the child. Depending on the length of the sitting, you should be about 4 years older than the older child you’re sitting for. For instance, if the parents of a 10 year old are going out for a movie and want someone to watch the child, a good minimum age for a sitter would be 14.
However, if you are under 16 years old it is against the law for you to babysit during school hours without permission from your principal. Parents can decide how old a babysitter they hire should be. It is their job to hire someone who can look after their children properly. Parents may consider... 1  your age and maturity.