The Reconstruction lasted from 1865 to 1877. The purpose of the Reconstruction was to help the South become a part of the Union again. Federal troops occupied much of the South during the Reconstruction to insure that laws were followed and that another uprising did not occur.
(1865-77). Reconstruction was a period in U.S. history during and after the American Civil War in which attempts were made to solve the political, social, and economic problems arising from the readmission to the Union of the 11 Confederate states that had seceded at or before the outbreak of war. As early as 1862, Pres.
The years following the Civil War between 1865-1877 are known as reconstruction. The reason historians use the term Reconstruction is because this was the period when the federal government restored the seceded states to the Union.
Aware that the Presidential plan omitted any provision for social or economic reconstruction -- or black civil rights -- the anti-slavery Congressmen in the Republican Party, known as the Radicals, criticized Lincoln's leniency.
Reconstruction generally refers to the period in United States history immediately following the Civil War in which the federal government set the conditions that would allow the rebellious Southern states back into the Union.
Well, the goal of Reconstruction was to restore the union and compromise with the Southern states that ceded before and during the war. In order for Lincoln to restore our union he had to allow some flexibility with new laws so that the South would be want to come back to the union peacefully.
The Union victory in the Civil War in 1865 may have given some 4 million slaves their freedom, but the process of rebuilding the South during the Reconstruction period (1865-1877) introduced a new set of significant challenges.
Reconstruction. 1865–77, in U.S. history, the period of readjustment following the Civil War. At the end of the Civil War Civil War,in U.S. history, conflict (1861–65) between the Northern states (the Union) and the Southern states that seceded from the Union and formed the Confederacy......