The Sahel region: a belt up to 1,000 km (620 miles) wide that spans the 5,400 km in Africa from the Atlantic Ocean to the Red Sea. Sahel people with livestock and azawakh dogs. The Sahel spans 5,400 km (3,360 mi) from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Red Sea in the east, in a belt that varies from several hundred to a thousand kilometers (620 miles) in width, covering an area of 3,053,200 square kilometers (1,178,850 sq mi).
Koumbi Saleh. For centuries, the Sahel boasted some of Africa's most influential civilizations. Anarrow band of semi-arid land south of the Sahara, the Sahel attracted both Arabs looking for gold from Sudan and Europeans looking for slaves from West Africa. The two influences merged with native ones, creating a culturally complex area. Instead of sticking to the land, rural workers are now heading for the cities. Dakar (Senegal), Ougadougou (Burkina Faso), Niamey (Niger) and Bamako (Mali) now hold about 25 percent of the Sahel's population and each year grow by another five percent.
Both desert and grazing land, the Sahel has attracted a population as varied as its environment. Some are semi-nomadic cattle herders, moving with the seasonal flooding of the Niger. Others are farmers, eking out a living from millet and sorghum. 
It contains too much of the Sarah and Sahel to sustain a population like Nigeria, Ghana, or the Ivory Coast. The population is slightly smaller than Somalia at just 9.5 million. Chad: Chad has the smallest population of this region at only 6.5 million. Conflicts that occur often in this area are because of the ethnic break-up of the population and Sahel area. The country is 45% Muslim in the North, 35% Christian, and 20% Animist South. 
6 | Organized Crime and Conflict in the Sahel-Sahara Region in neighboring Niger, which are also hubs for cigarette smuggling, emerged as major hubs for migrants’ journeys to Morocco (via Algeria) or Libya. 18 | Organized Crime and Conflict in the Sahel-Sahara Region known as the Special Program for Peace, Security, and Development of North Mali.
Representatives from the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), United Nations agencies and partners meet with a village chief in Sinegodar, Niger. Photo: OCHA/Nicole Lawrence. Africa’s Sahel region faces many complex and interconnected challenges. Here are some of the major ones, and how the United Nations is assisting the region in finding solutions. The food crisis. When the Sahel is in the news, it is often because millions of people are at risk of going hungry. A humanitarian crisis usually unfolds on the back of a food crisis. In 2012, the lives of up to 18 million people were put at risk following a major food crisis in the region
4 | Organized Crime and Conflict in the Sahel-Sahara Region The Rise of Organized Crime in the Sahel The Sahel and Sahara region is far from a pivotal area for transnational orga-nized crime. 18 | Organized Crime and Conflict in the Sahel-Sahara Region known as the Special Program for Peace, Security, and Development of North Mali.
The Sahel (/səˈhɛl/) is the ecoclimatic and biogeographic zone of transition in Africa between the Sahara Desert to the north and the Sudanian Savanna to the south. Having a semi-arid climate, it stretches across the south-central latitudes of Northern Africa between the Atlantic Ocean and the Red Sea. Sahel people with livestock and azawakh dogs. The Sahel spans 5,400 km (3,360 mi) from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Red Sea in the east, in a belt that varies from several hundred to a thousand kilometers (620 miles) in width, covering an area of 3,053,200 square kilometers (1,178,850 sq mi).