1 However, a neck lift often is done in conjunction with additional surgery, such as a facelift, which can bring the total to $16,000 or more, according to plastic surgeons at RealSelf.com. 2  Cruise Plastic Surgery in California charges $3,950 to $7,500 for a neck lift. 1 Cruise Plastic Surgery in California charges $3,950 to $7,500 for a neck lift. 2  Turkle & Associates in Indiana charges $5,000. 3  And the Institute of Cosmetic and Reconstructive Surgery, in California, charges about $6,000. 4  A neck lift is considered a cosmetic procedure, so it typically is not covered by health insurance.
1 A neck lift alone typically costs between $4,000 and $8,000, depending on the patient and what needs to be done. 2  However, a neck lift often is done in conjunction with additional surgery, such as a facelift, which can bring the total to $16,000 or more, according to plastic surgeons at RealSelf.com. 1 Cruise Plastic Surgery in California charges $3,950 to $7,500 for a neck lift. 2  Turkle & Associates in Indiana charges $5,000. 3  And the Institute of Cosmetic and Reconstructive Surgery, in California, charges about $6,000. 4  A neck lift is considered a cosmetic procedure, so it typically is not covered by health insurance.
The average cost of a neck lift is $4,389, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Neck lift surgery costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon’s neck lift price may be based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used and the geographic office location.
Neck lift cost varies based on the extent of the surgery, what your doctor charges and often where the practice is based. It typically ranges from $2,500 to $6,000. This includes the surgeon fee, facility fee and anesthesia fee. 
1 Depending on the location of the clinic, the prices can also vary. 2  The complexity of the procedure is one of the factors that can affect the price of the surgery; the type of medical devices that will be used can also affect the price. 3  On average, a chin lift can cost anywhere from $2,500 to $7,000. 1 A chin augmentation will help increase the size of the chin and make it more defined, while the reduction surgery will decrease the size to make the patient appear younger. 2  If this procedure is being done for a valid medical reason, most health insurance plans will cover the procedure.
1 The price for a chin lift differs depending on the type of procedure that will be performed to the patient. 2  There are several clinics that offer this type of procedure and they offer the service at different prices as well. 3  Depending on the location of the clinic, the prices can also vary. 1 A chin augmentation will help increase the size of the chin and make it more defined, while the reduction surgery will decrease the size to make the patient appear younger. 2  If this procedure is being done for a valid medical reason, most health insurance plans will cover the procedure.
Neck lift costs tend to be higher in urban areas such as New York City and Los Angeles where surgeons are in greater demand. In general, neck lift cost comprises anesthesia fees, facility fees and surgeon fees. When all these costs are factored in, neck lift cost typically runs anywhere from $5,000 to $8,000. If your neck lift is performed in conjunction with other procedures, including face lift and chin augmentation, your total cost will be higher. 
1 The complexity of the procedure is one of the factors that can affect the price of the surgery; the type of medical devices that will be used can also affect the price. 2  On average, a chin lift can cost anywhere from $2,500 to $7,000. 1 A chin augmentation will help increase the size of the chin and make it more defined, while the reduction surgery will decrease the size to make the patient appear younger. 2  If this procedure is being done for a valid medical reason, most health insurance plans will cover the procedure.
1 On average, a chin lift can cost anywhere from $2,500 to $7,000. 2  There are two common types of chin lifts that include a chin reduction as well as a chin augmentation. 1 A chin augmentation will help increase the size of the chin and make it more defined, while the reduction surgery will decrease the size to make the patient appear younger. 2  If this procedure is being done for a valid medical reason, most health insurance plans will cover the procedure.