The hospital took bloods to test for Hepatitis and came back within a week saying that she was clear, however I have heard from other sources (without any evidence yet) that it can take up to 2 months for the blood cultures to grow. Answers. Best Answer: if your girlfriend was tested for hepatitis, and obviously she is very sick and the tests came back negative, then she does not have hepatitis. she probably got screened for everything as soon as she got admitted.
Hepatitis C. If a person exposed to hepatitis C becomes infected, virus particles (called HCV RNA) can be detected within 1-2 weeks. Liver function tests also will tend to rise during this timeframe. Hepatitis C antibodies appear after RNA is detectable and can take 3-12 weeks to appear
Now that you have Hepatitis C, your liver may not work as well. Liver function tests are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. However, it’s common for people with chronic Hepatitis C to have liver enzyme levels that go up and down over time, sometimes returning to normal for as long as a year. So even if you have Hepatitis C, it’s possible for your liver enzyme tests to come back as normal.
If your doctor thinks that you may have hepatitis C, he or she may order: 1  A hepatitis C virus test. 2  This is a blood test that looks for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus. 3  It shows whether you have been exposed to the virus. 4  A rapid test is available that gives results in 20 minutes. 1 A rapid test is available that gives results in 20 minutes. 2  A blood test that looks for the genetic material (RNA) of the hepatitis C virus. 3  This test shows whether you are infected with the virus now. 4  A blood test to find out the kind of hepatitis C virus (genotype) you have.
1 A hepatitis C virus test. 2  This is a blood test that looks for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus. 3  It shows whether you have been exposed to the virus. 4  A rapid test is available that gives results in 20 minutes. 5  A blood test that looks for the genetic material (RNA) of the hepatitis C virus. 1 A rapid test is available that gives results in 20 minutes. 2  A blood test that looks for the genetic material (RNA) of the hepatitis C virus. 3  This test shows whether you are infected with the virus now. 4  A blood test to find out the kind of hepatitis C virus (genotype) you have.
My girlfriend has recently been taken into hospital and no-one knows what's wrong with her. The hospital took bloods to test for Hepatitis and came back within a week saying that she was clear, however I have heard from other sources (without any evidence yet) that it can take up to 2 months for the blood cultures... Answers. Best Answer: if your girlfriend was tested for hepatitis, and obviously she is very sick and the tests came back negative, then she does not have hepatitis. she probably got screened for everything as soon as she got admitted.
Answers. Best Answer: Depending on how backed up the lab is it could take weeks, but the actual ELISA test only takes about 3 hours to complete. It is possible to get results the day of testing. Usually you make a followup appointment for about 6 weeks later to reconfirm the origional test. I would schedule a followup test just to be sure.
Liver Function Tests (LFTs) or Liver Enzymes. Now that you have Hepatitis C, your liver may not work as well. Liver function tests are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. They are used to detect, evaluate, and monitor liver disease and damage. However, it’s common for people with chronic Hepatitis C to have liver enzyme levels that go up and down over time, sometimes returning to normal for as long as a year. So even if you have Hepatitis C, it’s possible for your liver enzyme tests to come back as normal.
Hepatitis C is spread when blood from a person infected with the Hepatitis C virus enters the body of someone who is not infected. This can happen through different ways including: Injection drug use. Most people become infected with Hepatitis C by sharing needles or other equipment to inject drugs. Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease that results from. infection with the Hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C has. been called a silent disease because people can get. infected and not know it. Some people who get. infected with Hepatitis C are able to clear, or get rid of