Data collected by whalers suggests that sperm whales and bottlenose whales (one of the members of the little known family Ziphiidae) can stay under for as much as 90 to 120 minutes respectively when pursued. Feeding dives for bottlenose whales at least are about 30 to 40 minutes for deep dives. Rorquals (the large baleen species which have throat grooves including blue whales and humpbacks) can stay submerged for about 40 minutes, but usual dive lengths are more on the order of 10-15 minutes. Dolphins (including killer whales) usually do not dive very deep nor dive for very long. Some have been recorded as being submerged for 2 hours without the need to surface for breath, but like the previous person said, it depends on the type of whale. Jess · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
Most experts agree that dolphins usually stay underwater for anywhere up to 8 minutes, the average being 3-6, however there have been occasions when dolphins have remained submerged for as much as 30 minutes and some reports of hour long dives, however there is little or no evidence to verify these reports. When they are awake, they need to come up for air every twenty minutes or so. But when they are asleep, they can stay underwater all night long. I really have no idea how th … at's possible; all I know is that my turtle stays asleep underwater all night long (8 to 10 hours).
In terms of how long a dolphin can dive for some dolphins are able to hold their breath for up to 20 minutes before coming up for air while other dolphins are only able to hold their breath for 5 – 7 minutes. The length of time that a dolphin can hold its breath for varies from one species to the next. 
18 minutes   ...   Dolphins can't breathe underwater because they are mammals. They go to the surface to breathe and then hold their breath while underwater...   Do … lphins are conscious breathers, which means they have to think about every time they want to take a breath. When they are awake, they need to come up for air every twenty minutes or so. But when they are asleep, they can stay underwater all night long. I really have no idea how th … at's possible; all I know is that my turtle stays asleep underwater all night long (8 to 10 hours).
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. They are one of the deepest diving mammals in the world, and are able to stay underwater for up to two hours before coming up for air. A hippopotamus can stay underwater for 15 minutes. The sperm whale and bottlenose whale can stay underwater the longest: some have been recorded on dives that lasted nearly two hours. 8 people found this useful.
From: MINNESOTA Q. How long can a humpback whale stay under water before coming up for air? A. According to scientists at the Center for Coastal Studies, a humpback can probably stay underwater for as long as 35 minutes. However, on average up in the Gulf of Maine, the length of time is only about 3-5 minutes (feeding in a fairly shallow area). In the West Indies, the average is 10-15 minutes. 
Time Frame. The average dolphin species can stay underwater for as long as eight to 10 minutes; some can remain submerged while holding their breath for 15 minutes. Dolphins breathe through their blowhole, which has a muscular flap that covers it when they go under water, keeping water out of their lungs. 