Egyptian art and culture. The art of the ancient Egyptians was (for the most part) never meant to be seen by the living—it was meant to benefit the dead in the afterlife. 1  A beginner's guide to ancient Egypt. 2  Predynastic and Old Kingdom. 3  Middle Kingdom and New Kingdom
In Egypt are also Jewish communities, small too. As ethnic groups in Egypt, the Berbers are in a percent of 0.4%, with 300.000 people, the Europeans 0.4%, with about 200.000 people, the Egyptians (Arabs) are in a percent of 99% with 71.000.000 people and the Europeans are about 200.000. The population of Egypt is mainly made from Egyptians and Arabs, to which it adds in the Egypt` s South some small pure Nubian population and in West some pure Berber population in a small number too. But Egypt has always been a country characterized by races mixture, even from 6.000 years ago.
An article raising the subject of the ethnicity of the Ancient Egyptians, and supporting the view that they were of black African origins and culture. It claims that beginning with Napoleon, the true ethnicity of Ancient Egyptians has been disguised by western opinion. Exactly who is digging up graves and cutting the nose off the ancient statues found buried beneath the African sands of Egypt. Egyptians consider themselves Egyptians and not black Egyptian is not an ETHNICITY. Egypt is the name given to the African land once known as KEMET. When a person of Indian descent speaks of his homeland and says I am the true America
This article is about the history of the controversy about the race of the ancient Egyptians. For discussion of the scientific evidence relating to the race of the ancient Egyptians, see Population history of Egypt. Since the 1970s, the issues regarding the race of the ancient Egyptians have been troubled waters which most people who write (in the United States) about ancient Egypt from within the mainstream of scholarship avoid.
Ancient Egypt was a civilization of ancient Northeastern Africa, concentrated along the lower reaches of the Nile River in what is now the modern country of Egypt. It is one of six civilizations globally to arise independently. Egypt reached the pinnacle of its power during the New Kingdom, in the Ramesside period where it rivalled the Hittite Empire, Assyrian Empire and Mitanni Empire, after which it entered a period of slow decline.
The origins of ancient Egyptian society, culture, and people have long been of interest to scholars from different disciplines. While the term origins is multidimensional, here it refers to the geography of a population's linguistic, cultural, and biological beginnings and its wider connections. 
The question of the race of ancient Egyptians was raised historically as a product of the scientific racism of the 18th and 19th centuries, and was linked to models of racial hierarchy based on skin color, facial features, hair texture and genetic affiliations. Since the 1970s, the issues regarding the race of the ancient Egyptians have been troubled waters which most people who write (in the United States) about ancient Egypt from within the mainstream of scholarship avoid.
Egypt was invaded or conquered by a succession of foreign powers, such as the Canaanites / Hyksos, Libyans, the Nubians, the Assyrians, Babylonians, the Achaemenid Persians, and the Macedonians in the Third Intermediate Period and the Late Period of Egypt. Egypt reached the pinnacle of its power during the New Kingdom, in the Ramesside period where it rivalled the Hittite Empire, Assyrian Empire and Mitanni Empire, after which it entered a period of slow decline.
As a result, ancient Egyptian artifacts provide sometimes conflicting and inconclusive evidence of the ethnicity of the people who lived in Egypt during dynastic times. In 1839, Champollion states in his work Egypte Ancienne that the Egyptians and Nubians are represented in the same manner in tomb paintings and reliefs. Since the 1970s, the issues regarding the race of the ancient Egyptians have been troubled waters which most people who write (in the United States) about ancient Egypt from within the mainstream of scholarship avoid.