Definition of THERMOSPHERE. : the part of the earth's atmosphere that begins at about 50 miles (80 kilometers) above the earth's surface, extends to outer space, and is characterized by steadily increasing temperature with height. — ther·mo·spher·ic \ˌthər-mə-ˈsfir-ik, -ˈsfer-\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.
The definition of thermosphere is the atmosphere layer between the mesophere and the exosphere The thermoshpere is the biggest of all the layers of the Earth's atmospher … edirecly above the mesosphere and directly below the exoshpere. The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere above the mesosphere. The thermosphere extends from 50 to 55 miles (80-90 km) above sea level, with the upper limit undefined … .
The thermosphere (or the upper atmosphere) is the height region above 85 km, while the region between the tropospause and the mesopause is the middle atmosphere (stratosphere and mesosphere) where absorption of solar UV radiation generates the temperature maximum near 45 km altitude and causes the ozone layer. The layers are to scale. From Earth's surface to the top of the stratosphere (50 kilometres (31 mi)) is just under 1% of Earth's radius. The thermosphere is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere directly above the mesosphere and directly below the exosphere.
The next and last layer of the atmosphere is the Thermosphere. This layer begins just above the mesopause at a height of about 80 kilometers. The Thermosphere has no real upper limit, rather, it extends out into space to the magnetosphere, which is not part of the atmosphere.
Thermosphere. the layer of the upper atmosphere located between the mesopause—that is, the upper boundary of the mesosphere—and the base of the exosphere. On the average, the thermosphere extends from a height of about 80 km to a height of about 500 km; these limits vary by ±10–20 percent. In English, the term “thermosphere” is often used in a broader sense to mean the region of the atmosphere extending from the mesopause to outer space.
The thermosphere is the layer of Earth's atmosphere that still contains substantial molecules of heavier gases. It occurs below the outermost layer, the exosphere, which consists mainly of a near-vacuum of hydrogen and helium. The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere above the mesosphere. The thermosphere extends from 50 to 55 miles (80-90 km) above sea level, with the upper limit undefined … .
The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The thermosphere is directly above the mesosphere and below the exosphere. It extends from about 90 km (56 miles) to between 500 and 1,000 km (311 to 621 miles) above our planet. Temperatures in the upper thermosphere can range from about 500 C (932 F) to 2,000 C (3,632 F) or higher. The boundary between the thermosphere and the exosphere above it is called the thermopause. At the bottom of the thermosphere is the mesopause, the boundary between the thermosphere and the mesosphere below. Although the thermosphere is considered part of Earth's atmosphere, the air density is so low in this layer that most of the thermosphere is what we normally think of as outer space
The layer of atmosphere above the mesosphere, which extends from 50 to 55 miles (80-90 km) above the sea level with the upper limit undefined. The temperature in this region initially rises rapidly with heights up to about 120 miles (200 km) and thereafter increases more slowly or not at all. On the average, the thermosphere extends from a height of about 80 km to a height of about 500 km; these limits vary by ±10–20 percent. In English, the term “thermosphere” is often used in a broader sense to mean the region of the atmosphere extending from the mesopause to outer space.