A fillet is a boneless cut of meat; you may also see this term spelled “filet,” especially in British English. Many people associate this cut specifically with fish, which are often filleted for the market, but fillets can technically be cut from any food animal, from a chicken to a cow.
Typically, however, when someone says filet, they're referring to the filet mignon (literally small boneless cut of meat), which is a cut from the front end of a beef tenderloin, a sub-primal cut that crosses the sirloin and short loin.
Full Definition of FILLET. 1. : a ribbon or narrow strip of material used especially as a headband. 2. a: a thin narrow strip of material b: a piece or slice of boneless meat or fish; especially: the tenderloin of beef. 3.
A filet is a boneless cut of meat or fish, and mignon is a French word that means cute or dainty. A filet mignon, then, is a dainty filet.. It's pronounced fih-LAY meen-YAWN. A filet mignon is cut from the tenderloin, which lies in the middle of the animal's back.
Carlos Davila / Getty Images. In the culinary arts, the term filet is used to indicate a boneless cut of meat, usually a tender, high quality one. So in that sense, the word filet is a generic term, not specific to any particular cut of meat. Nevertheless, the word filet is sometimes used as a shorthand for filet mignon, which are small boneless steaks cut from the front end of a beef tenderloin. The word filet can also be used as a verb, in which case it refers to the act of slicing a larger primal cut into individual boneless steaks.
A fillet is steak cut from the tenderloin. If you cut the tenderloin into medallions it becomes a fillet (better when wrapped with bacon...but isn't everything) and is ready to be grilled or broiled. If you leave the tenderloin in tact, then it is a 'tenderloin roast' suitable for use in a beef wellington.
This can lead to some confusion sometimes because the word fillet is often used to specify a boneless cut of fish, or as a verb, to refer to the act of slicing the boneless side off of a fish. In the U.S., however, it's filet when speaking of meat, and fillet when speaking of fish.