Quickly decide if you're getting the best deal for your car insurance in Ontario. If you find that the auto insurance premium you're paying is far too high, now could be a good time to switch auto insurance providers. Thankfully, car insurance rates in Ontario can now be quickly and easily researched through the Kanetix-car insurance quote comparison tool, which presents all quotes in an easy-to-compare and easy-to-read format.
Ontario auto insurance law. The law in Ontario requires that you insure your automobile for at least $200,000 Third Party Liability coverage. This is to cover injuries to any other person, or their property, when you're the at-fault driver in a car accident. Thankfully, car insurance rates in Ontario can now be quickly and easily researched through the Kanetix-car insurance quote comparison tool, which presents all quotes in an easy-to-compare and easy-to-read format.
Ontario follows with $480 and Quebec with $408 per year to round out the list. As for owned property, British Columbia is clearly the priciest province, where home owners need to put down here the highest amount in Canada: $984 per year, compared with $948 in Alberta, $900 in Ontario and $852 in Quebec. To find out, Canadian company InsurEye completed research on home insurance premiums across Canada. The results show that, on average, Canadians pay $840 annually for their home insurance. However, prices strongly varied across provinces. The highest level of home insurance premiums is in British Columbia at $924 annually, followed by Alberta with $912 annually. Annual home premiums in Ontario go as high as $828, and in Quebec they reach $768 per year
On average, Ontario drivers pay some of the highest auto insurance premiums in all of Canada. The Fraser Institute did some research several years ago and it showed that Ontario is the second most expensive place to insure a car in Canada. The only place that is more expensive is British Columbia. According to those reports, the average Ontario driver paid $1350 per year or $112.50 per month. Drivers in Prince Edward Island spent the least on car insurance with premiums that cost just $825 a year or $68.75 per month. These statistics are a few years old now but premiums in Ontario are still some of the highest in
Drivers in Ontario pay the highest rates compared to any other part of Canada. While the reasons are somewhat obscure, the fact remains that on average, drivers pay $1300 or $108 per month for insurance. 
Ontario Car Insurance and the Law. In Ontario, if you own an automobile that is operated on a public road or highway, you are required by law to purchase mandatory car insurance coverage(this also applies to new drivers in Ontario). News alert: Ontario car insurance rates have gone up contrary to the government’s two year plan to lower rates by 15 per cent by this coming August. See what's expected to happen to Ontario car insurance rates in the coming months.
Ontario has the highest auto insurance rates in Canada, with the average annual premium at $1,544.86 in 2012– 45 per cent more than in Alberta, the second-most costly. For young men like Dasko in the 16-to-24 age group, the hit is the worst – classified by the industry as high risk, they are charged stratospheric rates. Nick Dasko bought his first car when he was 22 – a seven-year-old Mazda Protege that cost him $10,000. Then came the insurance bill: more than $6,000, even though he had no tickets or at-fault accidents.
As in all parts of Canada, drivers in Ontario, must have car insurance to legally drive a vehicle, but there's absolutely no reason to pay top dollar for the auto insurance that you need if you don't have to. Thankfully, car insurance rates in Ontario can now be quickly and easily researched through the Kanetix-car insurance quote comparison tool, which presents all quotes in an easy-to-compare and easy-to-read format.
Yes. Ontario was one of the first jurisdictions in Canada to approve usage-based car insurance policies, and drivers in the province can take advantage of this new type of insurance plan to dramatically lower their premiums. Learn more about usage-based car insurance here. 