The highest daily temperature in Albufeira 2014 was 27 ° C. While the minimum night temperature dropped to 13 ° C. Average water temperature in Albufeira in June 2014 was 19.4 ° C. The minimum and maximum sea temperature reached 17.7 ° C and 20.5 ° C respectively. Albufeira, Portugal weather in June: Abundantly sunny, very little rain, warm but not yet hot; very comfortable. June 2015 forecast to be very similar to June 2014, with details on that year provided below.
Averages for Albufeira in June. Weather lowdown. June is a great time to visit Albufeira, Portugal, if you’re in search of clear blue skies and plenty of sunshine. During this month, the average temperature is 20°C, the result of highs of up to 25°C and lows of 15°C. The summer event programme of Albufeira begins in June, when you’ll find a great selection of music concerts, parties and street entertainment on offer. Around the middle of the month, the Balloon Meeting is held, with more than 20 hot air balloons taking to the sky and flying across the resort.
Temperatures in Albufeira Portugal in June. ; Albufeira June temperatures welcome you into the beginning of the Algarve summer. The sun is out in force, and with plenty of sunshine days are getting hotter but still very comfortable. The average day temperature is 25 degrees Celcius. 
The resort enjoys 11 hours of sunshine each day and an average sea temperature of 19°C, making it the perfect time to spend a day at the beach. With only 16mm of rainfall over five days, it’s unlikely you&rs... The summer event programme of Albufeira begins in June, when you’ll find a great selection of music concerts, parties and street entertainment on offer. Around the middle of the month, the Balloon Meeting is held, with more than 20 hot air balloons taking to the sky and flying across the resort.
Air Temperature in Albufeira in June. The highest daily temperature in June 2014 was 27 ° C. While the minimum night temperature dropped to 13 ° C. Averages day and night temperatures in June up 23.8 ° C and 15.8 ° C respectively. Albufeira, Portugal weather in June: Abundantly sunny, very little rain, warm but not yet hot; very comfortable. June 2015 forecast to be very similar to June 2014, with details on that year provided below.
Albufeira: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Albufeira with an average temperature of 23°C (73°F) and the coldest is January at 12°C (54°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in July. The wettest month is December with an average of 99mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in August when the average sea temperature is 21°C (70°F).
The following 3 weather charts display the average weather conditions of Albufeira in Portugal. The first chart plots the maximum temperature against the number of wet days per month. The second Albufeira weather chart indicates the average humidity levels and the amount of sunshine. The third weather chart of Albufeira compares the maximum day time temperature against the minimum night time temperature. 
Check the Weather in the Algarve in June before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in June and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. The Algarve june weather guide shown below is for Albufeira. 1  25°C max day temperature. 
The highest day temperature in June 2015 was 98 °F. The lowest night temperature was 59 °F. The average values for day and night temperatures during June were 85.6 °F и 69.5 °F respectivly. Precipitation total in June for Albufeira is 0.1 in. It makes june one of the least rainy months of the year. Wind Speed in June, mph. The average wind speed in June is 9.3 mph. Average Sunny Hours Per Day. We are using day length and cloud cover information for each day of the month to calculate averages for this chart. Average sunny hours for Albufeira in June is 13.3 hours