Cognitive Impairment. HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) may involve a range of symptoms with varying degrees of severity that can be represented by the 3Ms: memory, mood and motor. 1  Patients with HAND have an acquired impairment in at least 2 cognitive ability domains, including the following: 1. Signs and Symptoms. HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) may involve a range of symptoms with varying degrees of severity that can be represented by the 3Ms: memory, mood and motor.
If central auditory processing disorder symptoms are not recognized and addressed, processing delays will undermine the natural development of reading, focus and other learning skills. Here are some signs of central auditory processing disorder (CAPD or APD) to look for: 1  Difficulty listening with background noise. Difficulties Related to Auditory Processing Disorder in Children. Central auditory processing disorder symptoms are present in a majority of children with learning difficulties, in three categories: reading, learning and language.
Treatments depend on how the disorder is caused. Medication and therapies are the most common treatments; however, for some types of disorders such as certain types of amnesia, treatments can suppress the symptoms but there is currently no cure. It is described as disorders with “a significant impairment of cognition or memory that represents a marked deterioration from a previous level of function”. The three main areas outlined by the DSM-IV-TR of cognitive disorders are delirium, dementia, and amnesia.
To avoid confusing APD with other disorders that can affect a person's ability to attend, understand, and remember, it is important to emphasize that APD is an auditory deficit that is not the result of other higher-order cognitive, language, or related disorder. For example, individuals with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) may well be poor listeners and have difficulty understanding or remembering verbal information; however, their actual neural processing of auditory input in the CNS is intact.
Cognitive disorder signs vary according to the particular disorder, but some common signs and symptoms overlap in most disorders. Some of the most common signs of cognitive disorder include: 1  Confusion. 2  Poor motor coordination. 3  Loss of short-term or long-term memory. 4  Identity confusion. 5  Impaired judgment
In major depression, cognitive impairment can be severe and global, mimicking dementia. In the acute phase of bipolar disorder, impairment of cognition may progress to a stuporous state. Cognitive deficits in mood disorders include impaired performance in tests of attention, EF and memory. COGNITION DURING REMISSION IN BIPOLAR DISORDER. Cognitive deficits in attention, EF and memory have been recorded in bipolar patients. Cognitive deficits persist during remission and indicate some type of cognitive processing deficits that may be fundamental trait characteristics.
While anxiety disorders, mood disorders, and psychotic disorders can also have an effect on cognitive and memory functions, the DSM-IV-TR does not consider these cognitive disorders, because loss of cognitive function is not the primary (causal) symptom. It is described as disorders with “a significant impairment of cognition or memory that represents a marked deterioration from a previous level of function”. The three main areas outlined by the DSM-IV-TR of cognitive disorders are delirium, dementia, and amnesia.
Processing disorders, like auditory processing disorder, visual processing disorder, and sensory processing disorder are caused by a deficiency in a person’s ability to effectively use the information gathered by the senses. 
The cognitive mental disorder perspective is the theory that psychological disorders originate from an interruption, whether short or long, in our basic cognitive functions, i.e. memory processing, perception, problem solving and language. It is described as disorders with “a significant impairment of cognition or memory that represents a marked deterioration from a previous level of function”. The three main areas outlined by the DSM-IV-TR of cognitive disorders are delirium, dementia, and amnesia.