8 to 9 hours. Basically, enough uninterrupted sleep so that you don't feel jet lag at the end of the week and want to sleep until noon over the weekend.   adults should … sleep 7-9 hours. children should sleep 10-12 hours. My doctor has told me that tweens need 9 hours of sleep a night!  A Sleep Doctor should tell you to sleep 10 hours of sleep not 9 hours.
The amount of time spent napping varies from dog to dog and depends on the dog's age and personality. Counting little naps and longer snoozes, most puppies sleep from 18 to 20 hours a day. As your puppy ages, he will sleep less. Adult dogs sleep about fourteen hours a day. The various breeds of dogs also seem to have different sleep requirements. Some very large breeds of dogs, like Newfoundlands, Saint Bernards, and mastiffs, often spend a great deal of their lives sleeping – perhaps up to sixteen or even eighteen hours a day even as adults.
Newborns will sleep 20 hours a day or more, toddlers age 1 to 3 need about 12 hours of sleep per 24 hours, … more when they are in a growth spurt. Young school age kids ages 5 to 12 need 8 to 10 hours, but at that age it really depends on the child. My doctor has told me that tweens need 9 hours of sleep a night!  A Sleep Doctor should tell you to sleep 10 hours of sleep not 9 hours.
The amount of sleep, however, varies within very wide limits from individual to individual. Normally, seven to eight hours of sleep every night is adequate for most people. So … me, however, do well with four to five hours because their sleep is deeper and more refreshing. My doctor has told me that tweens need 9 hours of sleep a night!  A Sleep Doctor should tell you to sleep 10 hours of sleep not 9 hours.
I've got a new dachshund puppy. She's about 5-6 months old and she sleeps almost all day. Is it normal for her to sleep so much? She sleeps from 10pm-7am every night and she takes several 1-2 hour naps during the day. But she is active for about 5-6 hours during the day where she is very hyper.
There's no doubt about it: dogs sure know how to sleep. The amount of time spent napping varies from dog to dog and depends on the dog's age and personality. Counting little naps and longer snoozes, most dogs sleep about fourteen hours a day. Dogs sleep more than us, but they wake more frequently than we do. How much and when they sleep depends on the level of activity in their environment. A dog living as a pet in the home is likely to sleep more than a dog that works for a living, like a search and rescue dog or a dog working on a farm.
1 For instance, dogs that are 2 months old and under should only be kept in a crate for up to an hour, while 2-3 month old dogs can start moving up to 1 to 3 hours. 2  By the time your puppy is about 4 months, she should be able to stay in the crate for up to 4 hours. 1 Very young dogs should not be kept in the crate for even 4 hours. 2 
How to Take Care of a Dachshund. Three Methods: Protecting Your Dachshund’s Back Training Your Dachshund Grooming Your Dachshund. The dachshund (pronounced DAK-sund) is a breed of dog with shorter legs and a longer back than most. Originating from Germany, the dachshund was originally a hunting dog. 