What do 3 toed sloths look like? Three toed sloths has a thick brown fur coat and slightly greenish, pluss they have a short flat head, big eyes, short snout, a short or non-existent tail, long legs, tiny ear … s, long curved claws on all four feet used to hold onto tree branches. The sloth is a medium-sized mammal, having at least six living  species, and they live in the trees in the rainforests of Central  and South America. Sloths are omnivores - … meaning that they eat  both meat and plants.
The coat of a sloth is basically like a mini jungle with not just algae but several resident insect species including a moth that only lives on a sloth. They have no natural body odour so they look and smell just like a tree. They’re not being lazy – they are busy digesting their dinner. A sloth’s body and biology are perfectly evolved to spend minimum energy. Curved claws and a strong grip allow them to hook on and hang – like a living hammock. An efficient design that means they only need half the muscle of regular mammals.
Sloths do everything upside down, eat, sleep, mate and even give birth. As a result their fur grows the opposite direction, away from their extremities and with a parting on their tummy. Each hair has a groove down the centre, which allows algae to grow inside it and give the sloth a wild green look. They’re not being lazy – they are busy digesting their dinner. A sloth’s body and biology are perfectly evolved to spend minimum energy. Curved claws and a strong grip allow them to hook on and hang – like a living hammock. An efficient design that means they only need half the muscle of regular mammals.
What do 3 toed sloths look like? Three toed sloths has a thick brown fur coat and slightly greenish, pluss they have a short flat head, big eyes, short snout, a short or non-existent tail, long legs, tiny ear … s, long curved claws on all four feet used to hold onto tree branches. 8 people found this useful. Don Dfoofnik. 1,118,133 Contributions. The sloth is a medium-sized mammal, having at least six living  species, and they live in the trees in the rainforests of Central  and South America. Sloths are omnivores - … meaning that they eat  both meat and plants.
1 Sloths have long, sharp claws which they use to get good grip when they are climbing trees or hanging from branches. 2  The sloth is a slow moving animal, and their long claws are the only form of defence that the sloth has. 3  Sloths attack predators or threats by swiping at them with their claws out. Sloth facts and information: 1  Sloths typically have small heads, tiny eyes and ears, and a small tail hidden beneath their fur. 2  The rest of its body can be quite large and the arms and legs are powerful, which help with tree climbing. 3  The fur comes in a variety of colors, but is usually bulky and coarse.
Sloths are extremely slow-moving mammals found in the rainforest canopies of Central and South America. There are two species of sloths:two-toed and three-toed. Most sloths are about the size of a small dog and they have short, flat flat heads. Their hair is grayish brown but, at times they look grey-green in color because they move so slowly that tiny camouflaging algae grow all over their coats. Sloths are nocturnal and sleep curled up with their head placed between the arms and the feet drawn close together. This disguises them as part of a tree so that its enemies like the jaguar do not see them. Sloths rarely climb down from the trees and can live for up to 30 years.
The sloth is the world's slowest mammal, so sedentary that algae grows on its furry coat. The plant gives it a greenish tint that is useful camouflage in the trees of its Central and South American rain forest home. Sloths are identified by the number of long, prominent claws that they have on each front foot. There are both two-toed and three-toed sloths. All sloths are built for life in the treetops. They spend nearly all of their time aloft, hanging from branches with a powerful grip aided by their long claws. Because of this cry these sloths are sometimes called ais (pronounced eyes). Three-toed sloths also have an advantage that few other mammals possess: They have extra neck vertebrae that allows them to turn their heads some 270 degrees.