Doctors often order these tests to confirm pregnancy as early as 10 days after a missed period. However, some of these tests can detect hCG much earlier. A quantitative hCG test (beta hCG) measures the exact amount of hCG in your blood. It can find even very low levels of hCG. Urine tests can be done at home or in a doctor's office. Many women first choose a home pregnancy test to take about a week after a missed period. Home pregnancy tests are private and convenient.
Many home pregnancy tests claim to be 99 percent accurate on the day you miss your period. Although research suggests that some home pregnancy tests don't consistently spot pregnancy this early, home pregnancy tests are considered reliable when used according to package instructions one week after a missed period.
1 When you use them. 2  The amount of hCG or pregnancy hormone in your urine increases with time. 3  The earlier you take the test, the harder it is for the test to detect the hCG. 4  Most home pregnancy tests can accurately detect pregnancy after a missed period. Pregnancy tests. If you think you may be pregnant, taking a pregnancy test as soon as the first day of your missed period can help you get the care and support you need. A home pregnancy test can tell whether you are pregnant with almost 99% accuracy, depending on how you use it.
1 For the most accurate results, take the test one week after a missed period — when the level of HCG in your urine is most likely to be detectable. 2  If you can't wait that long, ask your health care provider for a blood test. 3  Check test results too soon. 4  Be sure to give the test time to work. 1 Your home pregnancy test is negative. 2  If your period doesn't begin, repeat the test in a few days or one week — especially if you took the test before or shortly after a missed period. 3  You continue to get negative test results, but your period doesn't begin or you still think you might be pregnant.
1 Take the test too early. 2  The earlier after a missed period that you take a home pregnancy test, the harder it is for the test to detect HCG. 3  For the most accurate results, take the test one week after a missed period — when the level of HCG in your urine is most likely to be detectable. 1 Your home pregnancy test is negative. 2  If your period doesn't begin, repeat the test in a few days or one week — especially if you took the test before or shortly after a missed period. 3  You continue to get negative test results, but your period doesn't begin or you still think you might be pregnant.
During early pregnancy, the HCG in your blood increases rapidly — often doubling every two to three days. Many home pregnancy tests can reliably detect this hormone in your urine one week after a missed period. Days earlier, however, some home pregnancy tests might not be as precise. If it's important to confirm your pregnancy right away, ask your health care provider about a blood test to detect HCG. Although research suggests that some home pregnancy tests don't consistently spot pregnancy this early, home pregnancy tests are considered reliable when used according to package instructions
Many home pregnancy tests claim to be accurate as early as the first day of a missed period — or even before. For the most reliable results, however, wait until one week after a missed period. Although research suggests that some home pregnancy tests don't consistently spot pregnancy this early, home pregnancy tests are considered reliable when used according to package instructions
1 The earlier after a missed period that you take a home pregnancy test, the harder it is for the test to detect HCG. 2  For the most accurate results, take the test one week after a missed period — when the level of HCG in your urine is most likely to be detectable. 1 Your home pregnancy test is negative. 2  If your period doesn't begin, repeat the test in a few days or one week — especially if you took the test before or shortly after a missed period. 3  You continue to get negative test results, but your period doesn't begin or you still think you might be pregnant.
Two main types of pregnancy tests can let you know if you're pregnant: urine tests and blood tests. Urine tests can be done at home or in a doctor's office. Many women first choose a home pregnancy test to take about a week after a missed period. Home pregnancy tests are private and convenient.
Nowadays, there are pregnancy tests available that can be taken as early as 14 days from possible conception. However, on the whole, doctors recommend that you take a test to determine if you are pregnant or not one to four days after your missed period for the most accurate results. 