Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta-Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area, which as of 2012 had an estimated population of 580,270, making it the third-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta. It is the 116th-largest city in the United States. The Augusta skyline, as seen from North Augusta, South Carolina. Augusta is located on the Georgia/ South Carolina border, about 150 miles (240 km) east of Atlanta and 70 miles (110 km) west of Columbia.
In 1996 the City of Augusta consolidated with Richmond County to form Augusta-Richmond County. This consolidated governing body consists of a Mayor and 10 Augusta-Richmond County commissioners. Augusta-Richmond County is one of only three consolidated governments in Georgia. Location. Augusta, Georgia, located in the east central section of the state, is approximately 150 miles east of Atlanta on Interstate 20. The Savannah River serves as the boundary between Augusta and Aiken County, South Carolina. Augusta’s current population is about 200,000
Augusta, GA Area Information. Founded in 1736, Augusta is the second-largest city in Georgia. Please visit the links below to learn more about the Augusta area. Please note: these links are provided for informational purposes only. CENTURY 21 Jeff Keller Realty does not sponsor or maintain any of these websites.
In 1927, Owen Robertson Cheatham founded the lumber company Georgia Pacific in Augusta, before it moved to Portland, Oregon, and later to Atlanta. Prior to World War II, the U.S. Army constructed a new fort in Richmond County, Camp Gordon, which was finished a few days after the attack on Pearl Harbor. Under Georgia's new constitution, a new political structure was laid out in 1777; Augusta's parish government was replaced by a county government, Richmond County, named after the Duke of Richmond.
In 1867, two years after the Civil War ended, Augusta Theological Institute was established in the basement of Springfield Baptist Church in Augusta, Georgia. Founded in 1787, Springfield Baptist is the oldest independent African American church in the United States. 
Augusta–Richmond County US /ə.ˈɡʌs.tə/ is a consolidated city-county in the U.S. state of Georgia, located at the fall line of the Savannah River, at the head of its navigable portion. The city was named after Princess Augusta of Saxe-Gotha (1719-1772), wife of Frederick, Prince of Wales. The Augusta skyline, as seen from North Augusta, South Carolina. Augusta is located on the Georgia/ South Carolina border, about 150 miles (240 km) east of Atlanta and 70 miles (110 km) west of Columbia.
Our Club's History. The Augusta Golf Company, owner of Augusta Country Club, was founded on June 30, 1916 by Guy Gannett, Percy V. Hill, and Walter S. Wyman. They believed that the area needed a golf course and country club. Augusta Country Club. The Augusta Golf Company, owner of Augusta Country Club, was founded on June 30, 1916 by Guy Gannett, Percy V. Hill, and Walter S. Wyman.
Augusta, Georgia was founded in 1735 as part of the British colony of Georgia, under the supervision of colony founder James Oglethorpe. It was the colony's second established town, after Savannah. Today, Augusta is the second-largest city in Georgia, and the largest city of the Central Savannah River Area. Under Georgia's new constitution, a new political structure was laid out in 1777; Augusta's parish government was replaced by a county government, Richmond County, named after the Duke of Richmond.