Through neutering, you can help your dog or cat live a happier, healthier, longer life. Spaying eliminates the constant crying and nervous pacing of a female cat in heat. Spaying a female dog also eliminates the messiness associated with the heat cycle. Neutering of male dogs and cats can prevent certain undesirable sexual behaviors, such as urine marking, humping, male aggression and the urge to roam. Neutering is a general term used to describe the castration of a male animal. However, neutering is often used in reference to both genders. The surgical procedure, performed by a veterinarian, renders the animal incapable of reproducing.
Neutering male dogs and cats can reduce urine marking in your house, aggression towards other dogs, and territorial aggression. It is important to realize that these behaviors can become a habit and continue after neutering. How spaying and neutering benefits pets’ health and behavior. Veterinarians Charlie Meynier and Jim Stortz write that spaying female dogs and cats reduces the incidence of mammary cancer, eliminates uterine and ovarian cancer risk and prevents pyometra, a potentially life-threatening infection of the uterus.
1 Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 2  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. Vet: shelter. If you go to a shelter and adopt, you will in many cases, pay only the adoption fee. Many include spaying/neutering, microchip, vaccinations, test for heartworm and if negative, a dose of heartworm meds, and flea tick meds.
As stated in the opening section, neutering is the surgical removal of a male dog's testicles. During the procedure, each of the dog's testes and testicular epididymi are removed along with sections of the dog's testicular blood vessels and spermatic ducts (vas deferens or ductus deferens). 5. Neutering after-care-all you need to know about caring for your dog after neutering surgery. Includes information on feeding, bathing, exercising, wound care, pain relief, sutures-out time and stopping dogs from licking surgical wounds.
1 The cost of spaying, a more complicated surgery, usually ranges from about $50 to $175. 2  Some clinics and animal hospitals can charge up to $200-$300 or more, depending on the weight of the dog. 3  The cost of both neutering and spaying vary greatly by geographic region, and even by veterinarian. Vet: shelter. If you go to a shelter and adopt, you will in many cases, pay only the adoption fee. Many include spaying/neutering, microchip, vaccinations, test for heartworm and if negative, a dose of heartworm meds, and flea tick meds.
In fact, the cost of a spay or neuter surgery is less than the cost of one euthanasia at public shelters. Furthermore, the over-supply of dogs involves purebreds as well as mixed breeds. From 25 to 30 percent of dogs in shelters are estimated to be offspring of purebred parents. 
Why You Should Spay/Neuter Your Pet. Curb pet overpopulation and make your pet healthier. iStockphoto. Feral cats are victims of overpopulation. iStockphoto. The decision to spay or neuter your pet is an important one for pet owners. But it can be the single best decision you make for his long-term welfare. Getting your pet spayed or neutered can: 1  Reduce the number of homeless pets killed. 2  Improve your pet's health. 3  Reduce unruly behavior. 4  Save on the cost of pet care.
Any dog spay/neuter that is 100 lbs and over will need to come in for a doctor’s exam to get a quote for surgery. The quote will include surgery, bloodwork, fluids, and additional sedatives such as propoflo. 
1 But lower cost sometimes means an assembly-line approach is used, so the dog might not get as much attention or recovery time. 2  Spay/USA has a referral service for reduced cost spay and neuter clinics. 3  In rare cases, such as with programs that use veterinary students, spaying and neutering can be free. Vet: shelter. If you go to a shelter and adopt, you will in many cases, pay only the adoption fee. Many include spaying/neutering, microchip, vaccinations, test for heartworm and if negative, a dose of heartworm meds, and flea tick meds.
Spaying / Neutering. Spaying is a general term used to describe the ovariohysterectomy of a female animal. Neutering is a general term used to describe the castration of a male animal. However, neutering is often used in reference to both genders. The surgical procedure, performed by a veterinarian, renders the animal incapable of reproducing.