Toronto Pearson International Airport (YYZ / CYYZ) has international and domestic flights from Toronto, Canada and is 79 miles from Niagara Falls, NY. Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport (YTZ / CYTZ) has international and domestic flights from Toronto, Canada and is 80 miles from Niagara Falls, NY. Domestic airports near Niagara Falls, NY. 6 miles: Niagara Falls, NY (IAG / KIAG) Niagara Falls International Airport. 25 miles: Buffalo, NY (BUF / KBUF) Buffalo Niagara International Airport. 56 miles: Hamilton, Canada (YHM / CYHM) John C. Munro Hamilton
Niagara Falls International Airport. Niagara Falls International Airport is the closest airport to Niagara Falls. The 1,067-acre, three-runway facility is just four miles from the center of the city of Niagara Falls, and serves approximately 200,000 commercial and general aviation passengers each year. Another airport within an easy drive of Niagara Falls is Greater Rochester International Airport (GRIA), located on the southwest side of Rochester, New York, about 90 minutes from
Buffalo Niagara International Airport, located on the east side of Buffalo, New York, about 26 miles from Niagara Falls, is the nearest major airport to the falls. Another airport within an easy drive of Niagara Falls is Greater Rochester International Airport (GRIA), located on the southwest side of Rochester, New York, about 90 minutes from Niagara Falls.
Best Answer: Hamilton is the nearest airport. I would know. I live in Niagara. Buffalo is close too but it is alot more complicated to fly into the states from Canada. Buffalo is at the LEAST 30min. After you go through customs at the airport, Then go through customs at the boarder. Buffalo is the nearest International airport, Hamilton is closer but limited carriers land there. For small craft, Niagara District Airport accomodates all private aircraft, it is minutes away from the Falls. There is also private airstrips in Chippawa and Wainfleet, close to the Falls as well.
Niagara Falls International Airport (NFIA). This is the nearest airport to Niagara Falls. Flying into Niagara Falls International Airport makes it easy to access the falls, however, due to the size of the airport, it might be hard to fly into unless you have access to certain airlines. Shuttles from the terminal offer rides right into the Niagara Falls area. 
Closest Airport to Niagara Falls, NY. The closest airport is Buffalo Niagara International Airport (BUF). Distance from Buffalo Niagara International Airport to Niagara Falls is 31,5 kilometers (19,6 miles). Buffalo Niagara International Airport. Buffalo Niagara International Airport is located approximately 4,5 kilometers (2,8 miles) northeast of Cheektowaga and about 5,2 kilometers (3,2 miles) northwest of Depew.
Another major airport is Buffalo Niagara International Airport (BUF / KBUF), which has domestic flights from Buffalo, New York and is 25 miles from Niagara Falls, NY. John C. Munro Hamilton International Airport (YHM / CYHM) has domestic flights from Hamilton, Canada and is 56 miles from Niagara Falls, NY. Domestic airports near Niagara Falls, NY. 6 miles: Niagara Falls, NY (IAG / KIAG) Niagara Falls International Airport. 25 miles: Buffalo, NY (BUF / KBUF) Buffalo Niagara International Airport. 56 miles: Hamilton, Canada (YHM / CYHM) John C. Munro Hamilton
Sherbrooke. The closest airport is Buffalo Niagara International Airport (BUF). Distance from Buffalo Niagara International Airport to Niagara Falls is 32,5 kilometers (20,2 miles). Closest Airport to Niagara Falls. The closest airport is Buffalo Niagara International Airport (BUF).
Major airports near Niagara Falls, New York: The nearest major airport is Niagara Falls International Airport (IAG / KIAG). This airport has domestic flights and is 6 miles from the center of Niagara Falls, NY. Domestic airports near Niagara Falls, NY. 6 miles: Niagara Falls, NY (IAG / KIAG) Niagara Falls International Airport. 25 miles: Buffalo, NY (BUF / KBUF) Buffalo Niagara International Airport. 56 miles: Hamilton, Canada (YHM / CYHM) John C. Munro Hamilton