Learn more about the Deadliest Catch crab fishermen and their boats. You will learn where the Deadliest Catch boats, captains, and crew fish, what it is like on the boat, how long they are at sea, and more. The Deadliest Catch crab boats are kept at Dutch Harbor, Alaska. Dutch Harbor is located on the Aleutian Chain on the south end of the state of Alaska. There are only two ways to gain access to Dutch Harbor.
So, if they go out for 3 days, fill the boat, off-load, head out again, fill the boat, off-load, and do that two or three more times until they fill their quota, the crew may be on the boat (or at least with the boat) for a month solid. However, they can't be at sea for that entire time. I've watched every season, and I've had the same question as you, but they never come right out and say, This boat was continuously at sea for X number of days.. The best time to catch king crab is between October and January.
Even so, the show is quite vague about this particular issue. I've watched every season, and I've had the same question as you, but they never come right out and say, This boat was continuously at sea for X number of days.. The best time to catch king crab is between October and January.
In the 1980s the boat was one of the first to fish Opilio crab. Throughout the 1980s the Northwestern kept very busy year round fishing Opilio crab, Blue King crab, Red King crab, and Brown King crab at different times of the year. 
Crab boats and crew stay, like those the fans of the Deadliest Crew follow each week, are out to see for three to four months. The crab season lasts from October to January. The amount of time spent at sea depends on the amount of crab the Alaskan fish and game sets for each season. The Deadliest Catch crab boats are kept at Dutch Harbor, Alaska. Dutch Harbor is located on the Aleutian Chain on the south end of the state of Alaska. There are only two ways to gain access to Dutch Harbor.
How long at sea? Up until 10 years ago, when king crab fishing was conducted like a derby, crab fishermen would be at sea for 3-4 days. Now, with an extended catch period in order to prevent derby style fishing, king crab fishermen are typically at sea for 3-4 weeks at a time before coming back to shore. Greenhorn : $150 day.
For fishermen willing to risk the dangers of the Bering sea, a king crab boat is a home, protector, source of wealth and only refuge for warmth. Just 30 years ago, king crab fishing was one of the richest workplaces in the United States. Greenhorn : $150 day. Up until 10 years ago, when king crab fishing was conducted like a derby, crab fishermen would be at sea for 3-4 days. Now, with an extended catch period in order to prevent derby style fishing, king crab fishermen are typically at sea for 3-4 weeks at a time before coming back to shore.
Fish and shrimp can be iced. So, for example, you can have a halibut boat that stays out three weeks, because the fish are iced. Not so crab. So crab boats have a great incentive not to stay out too long. As I remember, crab boats usually stayed out maybe a week or two; not longer than that. You know how on Deadliest Catch the crew are always measuring the crab. I believe Crab fisherman are out for about 2 to 6 weeks at a time. They do come in periodically to offload, but thats usually for a few hours at time. The show makes it feel like a few days, but its a bit longer than that.
Northwestern was built in 1977 at Marco Shipyards in Seattle, WA. She was originally 108 feet in length overall. The vessel was built specifically for the King and Tanner crab fisheries of Alaska’s Bering Sea. In 1981 there was a collapse of the King crab fishery so the boat stayed busy fishing Tanner crab. In the early-80’s, Northwestern was one of the first boats to fish Opilio crab. The Opilio crab fishery turned out to be the “bread and butter” fishery for the entire crab fleet. 