Format of the CPA FAR Exam. The CPA FAR exam is the second longest test with 4 grueling hours. The format includes 3 “testlets” (groups of 30 multiple-choice questions) and 1 testlet of 7 simulation questions. This is a computerized test and you have to sit for the exam in one of the assigned testing sites known as the Prometric centers. An entire chapter is dedicated to CPA FAR exam taking strategies in my new “How to Pass the CPA Exam” book (Wiley, 2013). While this book is written with international candidates in mind, Chapter 11 on FAR, as well as most other chapters in this book, is relevant to every CPA exam candidate.
FAR CPA Exam. The FAR (Financial Accounting and Reporting) section of the CPA Exam encompasses a variety of topics and candidates are expected to show competence in several key areas. The FAR exam is comprised of 3 testlets consisting of 30 multiple choice questions each. The FAR (Financial Accounting and Reporting) section of the CPA Exam encompasses a variety of topics and candidates are expected to show competence in several key areas
All four sections contain multiple-choice questions (MCQs). AUD, FAR, and REG sections have an additional portion for task-based simulation (TBS) questions; BEC has a portion for written communication questions, but no TBS questions. A total reported score of 75 is required to pass each section. This is not a percent correct score and cannot be interpreted as a percentage. The total score in the AUD, FAR and REG sections is a weighted combination of scaled scores from the multiple-choice and task-based simulation
The Structure of the CPA Examination Before we explain how the Exam is scored, let us first review how it is structured. The CPA Exam is comprised of four sections: Auditing and Attestation (AUD), Business Environment and Concepts (BEC), Financial Accounting and Reporting (FAR), and Regulation (REG). A total reported score of 75 is required to pass each section. This is not a percent correct score and cannot be interpreted as a percentage. The total score in the AUD, FAR and REG sections is a weighted combination of scaled scores from the multiple-choice and task-based simulation questions.
FAR CPA Exam. The FAR CPA exam is a four hour exam that is the most difficult section of the CPA exam. The FAR exam has 90 questions that are spread out over three different testlets. The CPA Exam FAR also has two different simulations that are 45 minutes/each. The FAR CPA exam includes material from the following subjects: Here are 10 FAR CPA exam questions with detailed answers that are similar to the type of questions you can find our FAR sample exams. We offer almost 500 FAR questions that can help you improve your FAR CPA score. 1. Drillfast is a drilling corporation with operations at oil rigs around the world.
The FAR section is four hours long and consists of three sections, or “testlets.” Each of these testlets consist of 30 multiple choice questions, although one has seven tasked-based situations. Depending on how well you answer testlet one will determine how challenging the questions in testlet two and three are. Governmental and non-profit accounting can be up to 25% of the exam score, so make sure you study these concepts. Overall, be sure to do plenty of simulated multiple choice questions and practice exams for FAR.
CPA Exam Format. The CPA Exam is a computer-based test comprised of four sections. The current exam—administered by the AICPA —takes a total of 14 hours for all four parts. 1  Auditing and Attestation (AUD) — 4 Hours (90 questions and seven task-based simulations). 2  Business Environment and Concepts (BEC) — 3 Hours (72 questions and three written communications tasks). Grading the CPA Exam. To become a certified public accountant, you must pass all four parts of the Uniform CPA Examination. Each of the four parts of the examination is graded on a scale of 0 to 99, using a rigorous scoring structure. The minimum passing score is 75. Download and read How the CPA Exam is Scored.