The Endoplasmic Reticulum The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a network of flattened sacs and branching tubules that extends throughout the cytoplasm in plant and animal cells. 
Endoplasmic Reticulum. Endoplasmic reticulum is a continuous membrane, which is present in both plant cells, animal cells and absent in prokaryotic cells. It is the membrane of network tubules and flattened sacs, which serves a variety of functions within the cell. It can be defined as a eukaryotic organelle, which forms a network of tubules, vesicles and cisternae within the cells. There are two regions of the Endoplasmic reticulum, which differ in both structure and function.
Introduction. The endoplasmic reticulum or ER is a sub-cellular structure which performs several specialized tasks within the cell; hence it can be classified as an organelle. It is formed out of several interconnecting tubules and vesicles. The ER does not function in isolation, but coordinates with several other organelles. slide 1 of 4. The endoplasmic reticulum or ER is a sub-cellular structure which performs several specialized tasks within the cell; hence it can be classified as an organelle.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a system of interconnected tubes and pouches inside a cell, like a hollow funnel cake. There are two different specialized areas of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), each with different functions. One is called the smooth ER and the other is called the rough ER. 
· just now. Report Abuse. A membrane network within the cytoplasm of cells involved in the synthesis, modification, and transport of cellular materials. Endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules, vesicles and sacs that are interconnected. Endoplasmic Reticulum is a fine network of tubular structures that crisscrosses the cellular cytoplasm. Some of this endoplasmic reticulum connects the nuclear membrane to the cell membrane: thus, it serves as a chennel for the transport of materials in and out of the nucleus.
Inside all cells, there are number of different organelles, which are specialized for different functions within the cell. Organelles are tiny structures with very specific functions within the confines of a single cell. Some organelles occur in all cells, while others only occur in specific types of cells. The Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) is an organelle that occurs in all cells. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a network of branching tubules, vesicles (assembly made of different molecules) and flattened sacs that are interconnected. 
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. The other region is called smooth ER because it lacks attached ribosomes. Typically, the smooth ER is a tubule network and the rough ER is a series of flattened sacs. The space inside of the ER is called the lumen. In liver cells the smooth ER produces enzymes that help to detoxify certain compounds. In muscles the smooth ER assists in the contraction of muscle cells, and in brain cells it synthesizes male and female hormones. The endoplasmic reticulum is only one component of a cell.
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.