Humorist and author Garrison Keillor, hosts the popular radio show A Prairie Home Companion. During which he tells stories of his fictional hometown Lake Wobegon Minnesota. Keillor bases these monologues, (known as the news from Lake Wobegon) on his memories of growing up in the very real town of Anoka, MN.
That's the news from Anoka, Minnesota-the real Lake Wobegon, were the Women Social Studies Teachers are bitter insensitive cows, the Men Law Enforcement Teachers are emotionally retarded closet cases, and all the Children just want to graduate and get the hell out.
Lake Wobegon is a fictional town in the U.S. state of Minnesota, said to have been the boyhood home of Garrison Keillor, who reports the News from Lake Wobegon on the radio show A Prairie Home Companion. Its location is believed to be north of St. Cloud and is claimed to be the town of Holdingford.
Although Keillor has revealed that his original model for Lake Wobegon was actually Marine on St. Croix, Minnesota, it also resembles many small farm towns in the upper Midwest, especially western Minnesota, North Dakota, and to some extent, northern Iowa, Wisconsin, eastern South Dakota and northeastern Montana.
Lake Wobegon Trail www.lakewobegontrails.com The Lake Wobegon Trail is a 28-mile hike-and-bike trail in central Minnesota. The trail runs from Avon to Sauk Center and additions to the trail are planned. This website includes a map of the trail and photographs of the grand opening in 1998, which featured remarks by Garrison Keillor.
Lake Wobegon is sometimes compared favorably to a rival fictional town called Millet; a real town called Rice lies 20 miles north of St. Cloud. Microsoft Virtual Earth now returns a location when Lake Wobegon, Minnesota is entered into their search engine. The place is a little north and somewhat east
In his new collection — O, What a Luxury: Verses Lyrical, Vulgar, Pathetic and Profound — he muses on subjects including Kansas, California, marriage, parenthood, mice, manners, Hennepin Avenue and Times Square. He joins NPR's Scott Simon to discuss rhymes, retirement and the news from Lake Wobegon.