Plates at our planet s surface move because of the intense heat in the Earth s core that causes molten rock in the mantle layer to move. It moves in a pattern called a convection cell that forms when warm material rises, cools, and eventually sink down. As the cooled material sinks down, it is warmed and rises again.
Tectonic shift is the movement of the plates that make up Earth’s crust. The Earth is made up of roughly a dozen major plates and several minor plates. The Earth is in a constant state of change. Earth’s crust, called the lithosphere, consists of 15 to 20 moving tectonic plates. The plates can be thought of like pieces of a cracked shell that rest on the hot, molten rock of Earth’s mantle and fit snugly against one another.
From the deepest ocean trench to the tallest mountain, plate tectonics explains the features and movement of Earth's surface in the present and the past. Plate tectonics is the theory that Earth's outer shell is divided into several plates that glide over the mantle, the rocky inner layer above the core.
This accumulation of stress is due to the movement of tectonic plates and most commonly occurs at the boundaries between differing plates that are moving in different directions. This accumulation of stress causes the rocks that make up the crust to deform elastically.
1 Convergent Boundaries-A convergent boundary is where two tectonic plates push together. 2  Sometimes one plate will move under the other. 3  This is called subduction. 4  Although the movement is slow, convergent boundaries can be areas of geological activity such as the forming of mountains and volcanoes.
There are three main driving forces for the movement of the Earth's tectonic plates. They are mantle convection, gravity, and the Earth's rotation. Mantle convection is the most widely studied method of tectonic plate movement and it is very similar to the theory developed by Holmes in 1929.
The Lithosphere. The part of the land that is moving is the Earth's surface called the lithosphere. The lithosphere is made up of the Earth's crust and a part of the upper mantle. The lithosphere moves in big chunks of land called tectonic plates.