THX was named after Holman, with the X standing for crossover as well as an homage to Lucas's first film, THX 1138. The distinctive crescendo used in the THX trailers, created by Holman's coworker James A. Moorer, is known as the Deep Note. The THX system is not a recording technology, and it does not specify a sound recording format: all sound formats, whether digital or analog, can be shown in THX.. THX is mainly a quality assurance system.
THX is a high-fidelity audio/visual reproduction standard for movie theaters, screening rooms, home theaters, computer speakers, gaming consoles, and car audio systems. The current THX was created in 2002 when it spun off from Lucasfilm Ltd. THX was developed by Tomlinson Holman at George Lucas's company, Lucasfilm, in 1983 to ensure that the soundtrack for the third Star Wars film, Return of the Jedi, would be accurately reproduced in the best venues. The THX system is not a recording technology, and it does not specify a sound recording format: all sound formats, whether digital or analog, can be shown in THX.. THX is mainly a quality assurance system.
THX. THX is a high-fidelity audio/visual reproduction standard for movie theaters, screening rooms, home theaters, computer speakers, gaming consoles, and car audio systems. The current THX was created in 2002 when it spun off from Lucasfilm Ltd. THX was developed by Tomlinson Holman at George Lucas's company, Lucasfilm, in 1983 to ensure that the soundtrack for the third Star Wars film, Return of the Jedi, would be accurately reproduced in the best venues.
THX stands for Tomlinson Holman's eXperiment. It is a digital standard of audio reproduction, the difference with Digital Theater System (DTS) with THX is, THX related to reproducing Audio Fidelity but DTS related to Handling multi channel. Stands for either Tom Holman's eXperiment, after the engineer who drafted the original standard, or is named after the company's founder George Lucas' first movie, THX 1138.
THX, named after THX 1138 (George Lucas' first feature film), was developed at Lucasfilm in the early 1980s. George Lucas wanted a way to ensure a movie would look and sound exactly the same no matter where it was played. Stands for either Tom Holman's eXperiment, after the engineer who drafted the original standard, or is named after the company's founder George Lucas' first movie, THX 1138.
The THX system is not a recording technology, and it does not specify a sound recording format: all sound formats, whether digital (Dolby Digital, SDDS) or analog (Dolby Stereo, Ultra Stereo), can be shown in THX.. THX is mainly a quality assurance system. THX first appeared in theaters, in which their logo would show before the start of a film. Since THX was originally created for motion picture quality, the very first film to show THX was Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, in its theatrical debut on May 25, 1983.
THX was named after Holman, with the X standing for  crossover  as well as in homage to Lucas's first film, THX 1138. The distinctive glissando down to a rumbling low pitch used in the THX trailers, created by Holman's coworker James A. Moorer, is known as the  Deep Note . THX first appeared in theaters, in which their logo would show before the start of a film. Since THX was originally created for motion picture quality, the very first film to show THX was Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, in its theatrical debut on May 25, 1983.
THX Ltd. is an American high-fidelity audio/visual reproduction standard for movie theaters, screening rooms, home theaters, computer speakers, gaming consoles, and car audio systems. They have certified video games as well. The current THX was created in 2002 when it spun off from Lucasfilm Ltd. THX first appeared in theaters, in which their logo would show before the start of a film. Since THX was originally created for motion picture quality, the very first film to show THX was Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, in its theatrical debut on May 25, 1983.
THX is owned by sound card manufacturer Creative Technology Limited, which holds a 60% share of the company. The company has had a long history with Creative, which was responsible for the creation of the first THX-certified audio card for computers, the Sound Blaster Audigy 2. THX first appeared in theaters, in which their logo would show before the start of a film. Since THX was originally created for motion picture quality, the very first film to show THX was Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, in its theatrical debut on May 25, 1983.