These shapes are rhomboids. Traditionally, in two-dimensional geometry, a rhomboid is a parallelogram in which adjacent sides are of unequal lengths and angles are non-right angled. A parallelogram with sides of equal length (equilateral) is a rhombus but not a rhomboid. A parallelogram with right angled corners is a rectangle but not a rhomboid. The term rhomboid is now more often used for a parallelepiped, a solid figure with six faces in which each face is a parallelogram and pairs of opposite faces lie in parallel planes. Some crystals are formed in three-dimensional rhomboids.
Full Definition of RHOMBOID. : a parallelogram with no right angles and with adjacent sides of unequal length. See rhomboid defined for English-language learners. See rhomboid defined for kids. 
Rhomboid. Traditionally, in two-dimensional geometry, a rhomboid is a parallelogram in which adjacent sides are of unequal lengths and angles are oblique. A parallelogram with sides of equal length is a rhombus but not a rhomboid. A parallelogram with right angled corners is a rectangle but not a rhomboid. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: rhomboid (noun). a parallelogram with adjacent sides of unequal lengths; an oblique-angled parallelogram with only the opposite sides equal. rhomboid, rhomboid muscle (adj). any of several muscles of the upper back that help move the shoulder blade
rhomboid-a parallelogram with adjacent sides of unequal lengths; an oblique-angled parallelogram with only the opposite sides equal. rhomboid-any of several muscles of the upper back that help move the shoulder blade. rhomboid muscle. skeletal muscle, striated muscle-a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes.
show equal sides. A square has equal sides and every angle is a right angle (90°). Also opposite sides are parallel. A square also fits the definition of a rectangle (all angles are 90°), and a rhombus (all sides are equal length). Also opposite sides are parallel and opposite angles are equal. Another interesting thing is that the diagonals (dashed lines in second figure) meet in the middle at a right angle. In other words they bisect (cut in half) each other at right angles. A rhombus is sometimes called a rhomb or a diamond.
Euclid never used the definition of rhomboid again and introduced the word parallelogram in Proposition 31 of Book I; In parallelogrammic areas the opposite sides and angles are equal to one another, and the diameter bisects the areas.. A parallelogram with right angled corners is a rectangle but not a rhomboid. The term rhomboid is now more often used for a parallelepiped, a solid figure with six faces in which each face is a parallelogram and pairs of opposite faces lie in parallel planes. Some crystals are formed in three-dimensional rhomboids.
Noun. 1. rhomboid-a parallelogram with adjacent sides of unequal lengths; an oblique-angled parallelogram with only the opposite sides equal. parallelogram-a quadrilateral whose opposite sides are both parallel and equal in length. rhomboid-any of several muscles of the upper back that help move the shoulder blade. rhomboid muscle. skeletal muscle, striated muscle-a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes.