Bacterial blight. Similar to the Asocochyta blight, bacterial blight is another disease in pea plants that survives winter in infected surface plant refuse and in infected seed. Most commonly caused by the bacteria Pseudomonas syringae, bacterial blight may also be caused by other bacterium. The battle against pea plant pests and disease continues. The best defense as they say is offense. Purchase disease free seeds and plants, practice crop rotation, control irrigation, and space plants accordingly to grow a bumper crop of healthy peas.
Comments. Submit. Pea plants are fairly simple to grow, but they are susceptible to a number of infections that are carried from plant to plant by insects and to fungal infections. These infections not only stunt the growth of the plants and deform the foliage, but they also impact the yield of veggies at the end of the season. 
Pea wilt (Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. pisi). 1  Plants appear stunted and may become discoloured before shrivelling and dying. 2  Wilt is a soil-borne disease which can occur in any pea growing area. 3  It is generally confined to fields with a very long history of peas and may occur in patches or individual plants. 1 Stems collapse in a watery soft rot. 2  Infected stems and pods may contain black, elongated resting bodies. 3  The disease affects peas, spring beans, oilseed rape, linseed, and sometimes potatoes and certain field vegetables. 4  See Technical Update TU12.
Pea diseases. Rebecca Brown. Snap peas, garden peas, and oriental pod peas are all susceptible to the following diseases. Bacterial blight. Bacterial blight is a disease commonly caused by the bacterium Pseudomonas syringae pv. pisi. However, several other bacteria can also cause similar symptoms on peas.
Viruses. Viruses cause a variety of diseases that affect pea growth and production. Aphids transmit the diseases from plant to plant, so it’s important to keep aphids at bay. Damping off. Damping off causes seeds to rot and the stems of seedlings to collapse. High humidity favors the development of this fungal disease. 1. Plant varieties resistant to the pea diseases common in your area. 2. Remove and destroy (don’t compost) infected plants. 3. Remove garden debris right after harvesting. 4. Keep your garden tools clean. 5. Rotate crops, using a three-year rotation schedule. 6.
Peas are susceptible to a large number of aphid-transmitted viruses, which can produce diseases individually or in combination. Many common names have been used to describe these diseases, and to avoid confusion they will be mentioned in the discussion under each virus. 
Peas are susceptible to two similar wilt diseases caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. pisi; true wilt and near wilt. True wilt or Fusarium wilt is caused by Race 1 of the fungus while near wilt is caused by several races. Currently, 10 races of the near wilt fungus have been reported, designated Races 2 ato 11. 