Aggregation Bias and Ecological Fallacy. Researchers need to design their studies at the appropriate unit of analysis. This is especially important to understand so that one can avoid making improper inferences about units of analysis that were not actually analyzed.
An ecological fallacy (or ecological inference fallacy) is a logical fallacy in the interpretation of statistical data where inferences about the nature of individuals are deduced from inference for the group to which those individuals belong. 
I990] TESTING FOR AGGREGATION BIAS IN LINEAR MODELS I47 standard errors are given. The last three rows of Table i present the mean, standard deviation and the median of the distribution of the estimates of the elasticities across the sectors. An obvious example is when the macro parameters are defined as weighted averages of the corresponding micro parameters. To deal with this and other more complicated averaging schemes, we adopt a generalisation of (I4) and consider aggregation bias defined as %h = g (b) - h (pl, ..) pm) (20) where h(b, ..., b) = g(b).
The problem of aggregation bias seems, however, to be much more serious for the estimates of the long run real wage elasticity as compared to the estimates of the long run output elasticity. University of Cambridge REFERENCES Boot, J. C. E. and de Wit, G. M. (i 960). An obvious example is when the macro parameters are defined as weighted averages of the corresponding micro parameters. To deal with this and other more complicated averaging schemes, we adopt a generalisation of (I4) and consider aggregation bias defined as %h = g (b) - h (pl, ..) pm) (20) where h(b, ..., b) = g(b).
This paper re-examines aggregation bias. First, it clarifies the meaning of aggregation bias and its applicability to the PPP puzzle. Second, the size of the bias' is shown to be much smaller than the simulations in Imbs et. al. (2002) suggest, if we rule out explosive roots in the simulation
In marketing, aggregation bias can result in incorrect interpretation when the effect is not measured at the right level of aggregation. For example, advertising at a local shop is unlikely to affect sales at a national level, but may affect sales at nearby shops as well as the local shop itself. Confidence votes 102. Aggregation bias is, generally, the incorrect assumption that what is true about the group is true about the individual (also known as the ecological fallacy). For example, children from poor families on average perform worse in school than children from wealthier families
In other words, there is evidence of aggregation bias whether a standardﬁxed eﬀect or a ﬁxed eﬀect CCE estimator is used.The main empirical result of Reidel and Szilagyi (2005) [henceforth RS] isthe discrepancy between the sectoral half-lives obtained using OLS and CCE es-timators. Section 6concludes. 2 Applicability of “Aggregation Bias” to the PPPpuzzle 2.1 Some Theory 4 The ﬁrst version of our paper, IMRR (2002) already had a full section dedicated to thetreatment of measurement errors. Our cleansed data has been available on the internet sinceSeptember 2003.
Faced with this dilemma, researchers often resort to using aggregate-level data. When the individual-level variable of interest is dichotomous, however, the aggregate-level model is subject to a special form of aggregation bias. Kelejian [1994] provides a methodology for testing for the presence of this form of bias. Faced with this dilemma, the question turns from correcting the problem to simply determining when it is present. Kelejian [1994] provides a framework for testing for the presence of this type of aggregation bias. The purpose of the current study is to examine the properties of his suggested test.