But with a few simple techniques and a little know-how, you can make even the dirtiest windows sparkle. Here's a list of helpful glass cleaning tips to get your windows brilliantly clean-without leaving behind streaks, scratches, residue or lint. 1. The first step is to choose an auto glass cleaner.
How To Clean Your Windshield and Glass Detailing 101 Series. There are times that no matter how well you clean the windshield and glass with a glass cleaner, that dirt and grime won t budge! A dirty windshield is not only unsafe, it detracts from the look of your freshly detailed car or truck.
1 Ways to avoid streaks Use good window cleaner You need to use a good window cleaner in order to avoid streaks. 2  This is because few cleaners require the proper amount of dilution or they will cause more streaking. 3  Remember that a concentrated cleaner leads to formation of streaks.
What happens is that as you are cleaning your windows, you can rub your window cloth along these rubber window gaskets and then transfer this rubberized materiel onto your car windows as you clean them. Knowing how to clean car windows also means knowing what not to do.
The Inside and the Outside. The windows of your car represent to specific sides; the in and the out. While the steps could be identical, the reality is that they represent different sets of problems and thus require specific strategies for truly streak free and smudge free clean car windows. Outside Window Problems:
Simply spray some Windex or water on your window and wipe down with a sheet of newspaper! 3. Allow proper drying. Without proper drying undesirable streaks or marks will be left visible on your car's windows, and you do not want that. The best way to allow proper drying is to wipe off any excess water with a dry cloth. 1  Instant results in under 10 minutes (depending on how many windows you clean and how long you spend cleaning).
An auto windshield on the outside can accumulate oily residue from asphalt, bugs and tar. Spray the exterior of your car windshield with the glass care cleaner. Allow the cleaner to sit on the dirty glass for a few minutes; take a lint free towel and wipe in vertical motions.
I have found that the most effective way to clean car windows is to use a two-step method. Start with whatever cleaner you have on hand and do the best you can with one application. 1  TIP: When it comes to cleaning the rear window, use wiping motions that are parallel with the heating grid lines. 2  This way, you can get the ridge edge of the copper heating element clean.