Apple has the fastest chip in the world which is the A6X chip and Samsung doesn't. Apple has about 50 billion apps and Samsung doesnt. Apple has a wider variety of touch screen products which makes it better. Some of the best things Apple has is iTunes, free text messaging, and the Mac book. Samsung and Apple both have phones and that's where you can tell the difference. Apple phones have a better quality and better functionality. Most people like iPhones.
The Samsung art for the handset is better than Apple's simplistic art. Samsung's just looks more modern. I'm sure this is one of the reasons Susan Kare confused the Android phone with the Apple phone as she assumed the slicker version of the exact same phone would be Apple, by default. In Apple's Pyrrhic victory, Samsung really comes out ahead. While everyone is all crazy about Apple's billion-dollar patent victory over Samsung, the psychological effect on consumers has been ignored. Several times throughout the case, the same point was driven home: the Android phone is identical to, and perhaps better than, the iPhone
William Wei, Business Insider. Samsung announced its latest flagship phone, the Galaxy S 4 earlier this month in New York. Critics have been going wild because the Galaxy S 4 is real competition to Apple 's iPhone 5. The Galaxy S 4 is packed with the latest hardware and software features like a 13 megapixel camera, eye tracking technology, and even a way to use the phone without touching the screen.
Originally Posted by Cowming Why are Samsung phones better than Apple phones? Depends on what you value in a device. Samsung offers high resolution screens compared to iPhone on their high end devices. They also offer removable batteries and micro SD slots. They also have the entire android operating system which in itself is a compelling advantage over an iPhone depending on what phone you get.
Samsung is better than apple because apple always has like almost the same styles of phones and apple cant even make phones themselves. Samsung makes phones for them and they just have ideas and they are saying that samsung is always copying apple. Some of the best things Apple has is iTunes, free text messaging, and the Mac book. Samsung and Apple both have phones and that's where you can tell the difference. Apple phones have a better quality and better functionality. Most people like iPhones.
Of course apple is better than android i have an apple and android and by far apple is soo much better than the Samsung. Samsung copied the apple iphone design and were suied but got away with it. Some of the best things Apple has is iTunes, free text messaging, and the Mac book. Samsung and Apple both have phones and that's where you can tell the difference. Apple phones have a better quality and better functionality. Most people like iPhones.
In fact, in my Apple iPhone 6 vs Samsung Galaxy S5 vs LG G3 vs HTC One (M8) spec comparison, you'll see that the iPhone 6 doesn't win a single category other than the Dimensions/Weight category with being 1 mm thinner and 0.45 oz lighter than the Galaxy S5. I personally believe the 5 reasons listed in the article as to why the iPhone still beats Android are pathetic at best, and don't focus on hardware at all which is, well, extremely important considering your entire phone IS hardware without taking into account what software is running on the phone.
Display. The display in the iPhone 6 is a little better than that of the iPhone 5S, however the improvement is nothing to get too excited about. The 750x1334 resolution display on the iPhone 6 is really no match for the 1920x1080 HD display on the Samsung Galaxy S5. The display on the Galaxy S5 is also larger, coming in at 5.1-inches against Apple's 4.7-inch display on the iPhone 6. One of the most respected and coveted Android phones on the market is the Samsung Galaxy S5. Here is a comparison of the specs in the two devices. Design. In terms of design, the Samsung Galaxy S5 is not that huge of a leap from the Galaxy S4.
Apple is better. Apple is better as Samsung has been copying it all the time. You can clearly see how Samsung has completely based it's products on Apple's iPhone, iPad, and even iPod. Apple products don't glitch and they work much faster than Samsung's Products. Some of the best things Apple has is iTunes, free text messaging, and the Mac book. Samsung and Apple both have phones and that's where you can tell the difference. Apple phones have a better quality and better functionality. Most people like iPhones.