See European languages. Language is a very important part of culture, and Europe has a widespread variety of languages, with most countries having at least one official language. Russian is the largest language in Europe, followed by German. Many regional languages are also spoken, some enjoying a level of official status or recognition. Other minority languages are also spoken. The diversity on such a small territory is proverbial.
European Americans (also known as Euro-Americans) are Americans with ancestry from Europe. The Spanish were the first Europeans to establish a continuous presence in what is now the United States. Martin martín De argueelles argüelles, Born. 1566, St, augustine florida was the first known Person of european descent born in what is Now The. united states Martin martín De argueelles argüelles, Born. 1566, St, augustine florida was the first known Person of european descent born in what is Now The. United-states twenty one, Years Later, virginia dare born in 1587 On roanoke island-in Present Day, north carolina was the first child born In The thirteen Colonies to. english parents
The Western world (i.e. Europe, the Americas, Australia and New Zealand) could be considered as a single Western civilisation. 'Westernness' could be defined by people who are ethnically or culturally European, in other words people of European descent or speaking a European language as their mother-tongue. Here is a summary of my observations on the differences between Europeans and Americans (USA). These are of course the major trends, and exception exit everywhere. Irish and Polish people, for instance, tend to be closer to the American mainstream than to some of their fellow Europeans.
The culture of Europe is rooted in the art, architecture, music, literature, and philosophy that originated from the European cultural region. European culture is largely rooted in what is often referred to as its common cultural heritage. 1 [sɛʀn]) : The European Organization for Nuclear Research, is the birthplace of the World Wide Web and home of the world's largest machine: the Large Hadron Collider. 2  It is the world's largest particle physics laboratory, situated in the northwest suburbs of Geneva on the Franco–Swiss border, established in 1954.
The European Culture Forum is a biennial flagship event organised by the European Commission, aimed at raising the profile of European cultural cooperation, uniting the sector's key players, taking stock the European Agenda for Culture's implementation, and sparking debate on EU culture policy and initiatives. 
Culture is the characteristics and knowledge of a particular group of people, defined by everything from language, religion, cuisine, social habits, music and arts. While Spain and Portugal are on the European continent, they are considered the key influencers of what is known as Latin culture, which denotes people using languages derived from Latin, also known as Romance languages.
The concept of European culture is generally linked to the classical definition of the Western world. In this definition, Western culture is the set of literary, scientific, political, artistic and philosophical principles which set it apart from other civilizations. 1 [sɛʀn]) : The European Organization for Nuclear Research, is the birthplace of the World Wide Web and home of the world's largest machine: the Large Hadron Collider. 2  It is the world's largest particle physics laboratory, situated in the northwest suburbs of Geneva on the Franco–Swiss border, established in 1954.
Europe has been a cradle for many cultural innovations and movements, such as Humanism, that have consequently been spread across the globe. The Renaissance of classical ideas influenced the development of art and literature far beyond the confines of the continent. Russian is the largest language in Europe, followed by German. Many regional languages are also spoken, some enjoying a level of official status or recognition. Other minority languages are also spoken. The diversity on such a small territory is proverbial.
European Americans are not recognized as a group by the United States Census Bureau on their own, but are included in the category of  White . White is defined by the United States Census Bureau as a person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa. Martin martín De argueelles argüelles, Born. 1566, St, augustine florida was the first known Person of european descent born in what is Now The. United-states twenty one, Years Later, virginia dare born in 1587 On roanoke island-in Present Day, north carolina was the first child born In The thirteen Colonies to. english parents
Due to the great number of perspectives which can be taken on the subject, it is impossible to form a single, all-embracing conception of European culture. Nonetheless, there are core elements which are generally agreed upon as forming the cultural foundation of modern Europe. 1 [sɛʀn]) : The European Organization for Nuclear Research, is the birthplace of the World Wide Web and home of the world's largest machine: the Large Hadron Collider. 2  It is the world's largest particle physics laboratory, situated in the northwest suburbs of Geneva on the Franco–Swiss border, established in 1954.