Here are the real facts: Virtually any Bluetooth (BT) headset can be paired to multiple devices. Pairing means that the headset and the device recognize each other and have the capability to make a connection. However the vast majority of BT headsets can only be connected to one paired device at a time.
Using a Bluetooth headset as a microphone for your computer will allow you speak on calls using a voice over Internet protocol connection or record dictation while giving you the freedom to move up to around 30 feet away from your system.
1 The Xbox 360 Wireless Headset and Xbox 360 Wireless Bluetooth Headset. 2  Headsets with this 2.5-mm connector will not work because of the connector format. 3  This connector inclues a long, cylindrical pen in the middle of the connecting side that does not fit into the Xbox One Stereo Headset Adapter.
To use a Bluetooth headset as a mic, you first have to pair the headset with your computer and let the Windows 7 system know that you want to use the headset as your primary microphone. Step 1. Place your Bluetooth headset into discoverable mode, which is sometimes called pairing mode. Many headsets will automatically enter this mode when you power them on and they can't find a previously paired device in the area, but others will require that you press a button combination to enter this mode.
If you have a stereo-chat headset, connect it to the audio output on your TV, monitor, or console. You can use the controls on the headset to control the audio volume. The two main types of connectors are RCA cables and the S/PDIF optical audio cable.
So, if you want to connect it to two phones to use as. phone headset at same time-no, BUT, if you'd play with setting and on one phone you will have only Audio Headset service enabled, and another will phone will know this device to have only Headset service-they'll work fine.
Can I use two headsets G930 on one computer for watching movies? ﻿Will there be two sets to work with a one transmitter? ﻿Is there support two headsets in the driver or it will be two separate audio devices, whose use at the same time is impossible?﻿﻿