Functional testing is a quality assurance (QA) process and a type of black box testing that bases its test cases on the specifications of the software component under test. Functional testing usually describes what the system does. Functional testing does not imply that you are testing a function (method) of your module or class. Functional testing tests a slice of functionality of the whole system. Functional testing differs from system testing in that functional testing  verifies a program by checking it against ... design document(s) or specification(s), while system testing  validate[s] a program by checking it against the published user or system requirements (Kaner, Falk, Nguyen 1999, p. 52)
Essentially non-functional testing lets us measure and compare the results of testing the non-functional attributes of software systems, for example, by testing the application or system against the client’s requirement or a performance requirement. For example, in functional testing it might be revealed that the function of inputting data into a set of cells in a database works, however, usability testing (a part of Non Functional Testing) reveals that saving a version of the document requires 2 minutes, which will (or should) be judged as too long to wait.
Functional testing is concerned only with the functional requirements of a system or subsystem and covers how well (if at all) the system executes its functions. These include any user commands, data manipulation, searches and business processes, user screens, and integrations. For example, in functional testing it might be revealed that the function of inputting data into a set of cells in a database works, however, usability testing (a part of Non Functional Testing) reveals that saving a version of the document requires 2 minutes, which will (or should) be judged as too long to wait.
Functional Testing is a type of software testing whereby the system is tested against the functional requirements/specifications. ELABORATION. Typically, functional testing involves the following steps: 1  Identify functions that the software is expected to perform. 2  Create input data based on the function’s specifications. 3  Determine the output based on the function’s specifications. 4  Execute the test case
Functional testing is to testing the functionality of the software application under test. Basically, it is to check the basic functionality mentioned in the functional specification document. Also check whether software application is meeting the user expectations. We can also say that checking the behavior of the software application against test specification. This type of testing is mandatory and irrespective of what type of application this should be exercised.
Role of functional testing is to validating the behavior of an application. Functional testing is more important because it always verifies that your system is fixed for release. The functional tests define your working system in a useful manner. Functional testing is executed using the functional specifications given by the client or by the design specifications according to use cases given by the design team.
Definition FUNCTIONAL TESTING Evaluation of programs based on functional requirements to ensure the program works as it was specified to do. Definition Definition A functional test case validates the solution as defined by the requirements specification or detailed technical specification of the component. 
DEFINITION. Functional Testing is a type of software testing whereby the system is tested against the functional requirements/specifications. ELABORATION. Functions (or features) are tested by feeding them input and examining the output. Typically, functional testing involves the following steps: 1  Identify functions that the software is expected to perform. 2  Create input data based on the function’s specifications. 3  Determine the output based on the function’s specifications. 4  Execute the test case