Vitamin C is found in many fresh fruits like the oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruit, cantaloupes, mangoes, papayas, and their juices. Vegetables such as bean sprouts, green peppers, plantains, broccoli and greens like kale and poke greens are also good sources of vitamin C. Vitamin C is not stored in the body. Vitamin C helps form a cement-like material between our cells. We need vitamin C to heal cuts, wounds, and burns. When we don't get enough vitamin C the cement between cells loses its strength and can cause us to bleed easily.
Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is a water-soluble nutrient found in some foods. In the body, it acts as an antioxidant, helping to protect cells from the damage caused by free radicals. 
Vitamin C or L-ascorbic acid, or simply ascorbate (the anion of ascorbic acid), is an essential nutrient for humans and certain other animal species. Vitamin C describes several vitamers that have vitamin C activity in animals, including ascorbic acid and its salts, and some oxidized forms of the molecule like dehydroascorbic acid.
Fruits, even 100-percent fruit juices, are some of the richest sources of vitamin C. A medium orange, for example, offers around 70 milligrams, while 6 ounces of freshly squeezed orange juice has more than 90 milligrams, according to the Office of Dietary Supplements. 
Who Discovered Vitamin C. 14 Jun, 2011 Who discovered 0. Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is a well known vitamin that aids in the support of the immune system and can be found in all citrus fruits. It forms an important protein that is used to make skin, tendons, ligaments and blood vessels. 
Ascorbic acid is one form ( vitamer ) of vitamin C. It was originally called. -hexuronic acid, but, when it was found to have vitamin C activity in animals (vitamin C being defined as a vitamin activity, not then a specific substance), the suggestion was made to rename it.
The fact that the enantiomer D-ascorbate (not found in nature) has identical antioxidant activity to L-ascorbate, yet far less vitamin activity, underscores the fact that most of the function of L-ascorbate as a vitamin relies not on its antioxidant properties, but upon enzymic reactions that are stereospecific. Vitamin C describes several vitamers that have vitamin C activity in animals, including ascorbic acid and its salts, and some oxidized forms of the molecule like dehydroascorbic acid.
Good sources of vitamin C. Vitamin C is found in a wide variety of fruit and vegetables. Good sources include: 1  oranges and orange juice. 2  red and green peppers. 3  strawberries. 4  blackcurrants. 5  broccoli. 6  brussels sprouts. 7  potatoes. Vitamin C. Vitamin C is also known as ascorbic acid and has several important functions. For example, it: 1  helps to protect cells and keeps them healthy. 2  is necessary for the maintenance of healthy connective tissue, which gives support and structure for other tissue and organs. 3  helps wound healing.
When you take only ascorbic acid found in your synthetic vitamin C tablet or powder, your body must gather all of the other components of the full vitamin C complex from your body's tissues in order to make use of it. Ascorbic acid is NOT vitamin C. It represents the outer ring that serves as a protective shell for the entire vitamin C complex, much like an orange peel that serves as a protective shell for an orange. Real vitamin C found in whole foods like fruits and vegetables contains the following components: 1  Rutin.
The name 'vitamin C' always refers to the L-enantiomer of ascorbic acid and its oxidized forms. The opposite D-enantiomer called D-ascorbate has equal antioxidant power, but is not found in nature, and has no physiological significance. Vitamin C describes several vitamers that have vitamin C activity in animals, including ascorbic acid and its salts, and some oxidized forms of the molecule like dehydroascorbic acid.