The current clinical classification system for tuberculosis (TB) is based on the pathogenesis of the disease. Health care providers should comply with local laws and regulations requiring the reporting of TB. All persons with class 3 or class 5 TB should be reported promptly to the local health department. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has an additional TB classification for immigrants and refugees developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The B notification program is an important screening strategy to identify new arrivals who have a high risk for TB.
People with TB disease have symptoms or other manifestations of illness such as an abnormal chest radiograph. In the remainder, the infection remains in a latent state (latent TB infection or LTBI) in which the infected person has no symptoms and cannot spread TB to others. 
In their active state, TB bacteria cause death of tissue in the organs they infect. Active TB disease can be fatal if left untreated. Because the bacteria that cause tuberculosis are transmitted through the air, the disease can be contagious. Infection is most likely to occur if you are exposed to someone with TB on a day-to-day basis, such as by living or working in close quarters with someone who has the active disease. The remaining will have what's called latent TB infection -- they show no signs of infection and won't be able to spread the disease to others, unless their disease becomes active. Because these latent infections can eventually become active, even people without symptoms should receive medical treatment.
TB is a disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. TB disease should be suspected in persons who have the following symptoms: 1  Unexplained weight loss. 2  Loss of appetite. 3  Night sweats. 4  Fever. 5  Fatigue. Clinicians should ask about the patient’s history of TB exposure, infection, or disease. It is also important to consider demographic factors (e.g., country of origin, age, ethnic or racial group, occupation) that may increase the patient’s risk for exposure to TB or to drug-resistant TB.
The typical symptoms of TB disease are prolonged cough, weight loss, night sweats, fatigue, fever, and chest pain. When in contact with a patient known or suspected to have active TB disease, place a surgical mask on the patient, if possible, and wear an N95 respirator (or PAPR or SCBA), if one is available. If a respirator is not available, use a surgical mask for yourself. Tuberculosis (TB) is a treatable infectious disease that usually affects the lungs and airway, but may also affect other parts of the body. People with TB disease in other parts of the body are not infectious to others.
Tuberculosis, commonly known as TB, is a contagious and an often severe airborne disease caused by a bacterial infection. TB typically affects the lungs, but it also may affect any other organ of the body. It is usually treated with a regimen of drugs taken for 6 months to 2 years, depending on the type of infection. 
What is Tuberculosis? Tuberculosis is an infectious disease of humans and animals. The most common cause of human disease is the bacteria (mycobacteria) called Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis). In 1995, almost 23,000 human cases were reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 