Brain ischemia (aka cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular ischemia) is a condition in which there is insufficient blood flow to the brain to meet metabolic demand. This leads to poor oxygen supply or cerebral hypoxia and thus to the death of brain tissue or cerebral infarction / ischemic stroke. A closely related disease to brain ischemia is brain hypoxia. Brain hypoxia is the condition in which there is a decrease in the oxygen supply to the brain even in the presence of adequate blood flow.
Cerebral ischemia or brain ischemia, is a condition that occurs when there isn’t enough blood flow to the brain to meet metabolic demand. The symptoms of cerebral ischemia include: 1  blindness in one eye. 2  weakness in one arm or leg. 3  weakness in one entire side of the body. 4  dizziness, vertigo, double vision. 5  weakness on both sides of the body. 6  difficulty speaking. 7  slurred speech. 8  loss of coordination.
Background and Purpose Previous infection is discussed as a risk factor for ischemic stroke in children and younger adults. We tested the hypothesis that the role of recent infection in cerebrovascular ischemia is not restricted to younger patients and investigated which infections are mainly relevant in this respect. In both sexes combined and in men but not in women, previous infection was a significant risk factor when hypertension, diabetes mellitus, current smoking, coronary heart disease, and previous cerebral ischemia were included as covariates in the logistic model (Table 9 ⇓).
The signs and symptoms of cerebrovascular disease depend on the location of the hemorrhage, thrombus, or embolus and the extent of cerebral tissue affected. General signs and symptoms of a hemorrhagic or ischemic event include motor dysfunction, such as hemiplegia and hemiparesis. Cerebrovascular disease primarily affects people who are elderly or have a history of diabetes, smoking, or ischemic heart disease. A symptom is something the patient senses and describes, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor notice.
Focal cerebral (or brain) ischemia occurs when a blood clot has blocked a cerebral vessel. Focal cerebral ischemia reduces blood flow to the particular brain region, increasing the risk of cell death to that area. The symptoms of cerebral ischemia include: 1  blindness in one eye. 2  weakness in one arm or leg. 3  weakness in one entire side of the body. 4  dizziness, vertigo, double vision. 5  weakness on both sides of the body. 6  difficulty speaking. 7  slurred speech. 8  loss of coordination.
Cerebral Ischemia. Cerebral ischemia or brain ischemia, is a condition that occurs when there isn’t enough blood flow to the brain to meet metabolic demand. This leads to limited oxygen supply or cerebral hypoxia and leads to the death of brain tissue, cerebral infarction, or ischemic stroke. The symptoms of cerebral ischemia include: 1  blindness in one eye. 2  weakness in one arm or leg. 3  weakness in one entire side of the body. 4  dizziness, vertigo, double vision. 5  weakness on both sides of the body. 6  difficulty speaking. 7  slurred speech. 8  loss of coordination.
Abstract. Background and Purpose— Chronic infectious diseases may increase the risk of stroke. We investigated whether periodontal disease, including periodontitis and gingivitis, is a risk factor for cerebral ischemia. In conclusion, our study indicates that periodontal disease is significantly associated with cerebral ischemia. Gingivitis and periodontitis are treatable and preventable conditions. Therefore, their identification as stroke risk factors that require further studies would have a major impact on stroke prevention.
The profile of predictors for cerebrovascular ischemia was similar in patients with and in patients without preceding infection. Therefore, infection appears to temporarily increase the risk for cerebral ischemia in patients with a preexisting increased risk and acts mainly as a trigger factor for ischemic stroke. In both sexes combined and in men but not in women, previous infection was a significant risk factor when hypertension, diabetes mellitus, current smoking, coronary heart disease, and previous cerebral ischemia were included as covariates in the logistic model (Table 9 ⇓).
Ischemia leads to alterations in brain metabolism, reduction in metabolic rates, and energy crisis. There are two types of ischemia: focal ischemia, which is confined to a specific region of the brain; and global ischemia, which encompasses wide areas of brain tissue. The main symptoms involve impairments in vision, body movement, and speaking. A closely related disease to brain ischemia is brain hypoxia. Brain hypoxia is the condition in which there is a decrease in the oxygen supply to the brain even in the presence of adequate blood flow.