Dental Laboratory Technician Phoenix, AZ average salary is $67,471, median salary is $60,757 with a salary range from $21,591 to $1,050,000. Dental Laboratory Technician Phoenix, AZ salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Dental Laboratory Technician Phoenix, AZ salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Dental Laboratory Technician Phoenix, AZ salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
$31,000. Average Lab Technician salaries for job postings in Arizona are 18% lower than average Lab Technician salaries for job postings nationwide.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Medical Laboratory Technician in Phoenix, AZ that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Laboratory Technician in Phoenix are expected to make less than the median. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Medical Laboratory Technician in the United States is $44,050 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Laboratory Technician in the United States are expected to make less than $44,050. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary
laboratory.jobs.net is the starting point for a job search in any laboratory job in Phoenix, Arizona. We provide job resources for Laboratory positions throughout the industry in Phoenix, Arizona. laboratory.jobs.net also provides Laboratory jobs listings from around the United States. Job seekers can search and apply for jobs in Laboratory by either city or state. laboratory.jobs.net is a laboratory job search resource for job seekers
Common courses include medical terminology, medical lab equipment, anatomy and physiology, cell biology, and chemistry. Medical lab tech positions are expected to increase by 14% which is faster than most occupations. The average medical lab tech makes an annual salary of $45,000-$64,000. Medical lab techs perform a battery of tests and analyze samples for medical identification reasons. Medical lab technician programs typically confer two-year ssociate’s or four-year bachelor’s degrees.
$32,000. Average Lab Technician salaries for job postings in Phoenix, AZ are 16% lower than average Lab Technician salaries for job postings nationwide.
New Search Arizona medical laboratory technician SalariesNew SearchWithin Arizona there is a lot of variation in medical laboratory technician Salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Arizona and surrounding states, click on any one to find medical laboratory technician Salaries for that area. Prepares specimens for microscope examination. Operates laboratory equipment including centrifuges, dry bath incubators, and blood bank refrigerators. Requires graduation from an accredited MLT program and passing a national exam given by the Board of Registry of the American Society for Clinical Pathology.
The salary for someone with the job title Medical Laboratory Technician in Phoenix, AZ varies depending on a number of factors. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Medical Laboratory Technician in the United States is $44,050 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Medical Laboratory Technician in the United States are expected to make less than $44,050. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary