1 Paraquat can be mixed easily with food, water, or other beverages. 2  If the form of paraquat that is used does not contain the safeguard additives (dye, odor, and vomiting agent), people might not know that the food, water, or other beverages are contaminated. How you could be exposed to paraquat. 1  Paraquat is not known to have been used in any terrorist attacks or wars. 2  The most likely route of exposure to paraquat that would lead to poisoning is ingestion (swallowing). 3 
Paraquat Fact Sheet. Paraquat is a herbicide (chemical weed killer) used to control a very broad range of weeds (unwanted plants) in more than 100 crops, including cereals, oilseeds, fruit and vegetables, growing in all climates. Weeds shade crops, take their water and nutrients, and make harvesting difficult. Paraquat is one of the most widely used herbicides in the world. It has been approved for use by authorities in nearly 90 countries. When used as recommended, paraquat is effective and safe to users, consumers and the environment.
Overview. Paraquat is a toxic herbicide that has been related to several hundred cases of fatal human poisoning. Paraquat poisoning has mainly been due to deliberate oral ingestion (for suicide or murder), but there are a few cases of accidental direct ingestion. Although paraquat is now rarely used in the United States, it is still widely applied in developing countries.
1 Paraquat is a toxic chemical that is widely used as an herbicide (plant killer), primarily for weed and grass control. 2  In the United States, paraquat is available primarily as a liquid in various strengths. How you could be exposed to paraquat. 1  Paraquat is not known to have been used in any terrorist attacks or wars. 2  The most likely route of exposure to paraquat that would lead to poisoning is ingestion (swallowing). 3  Paraquat can be mixed easily with food, water, or other beverages.
Medical Definition of PARAQUAT. : an herbicide containing a salt of a cation [C12H14N2]2+ that is used especially as a weed killer and that is extremely toxic to the liver, kidneys, and lungs if ingested. Definition of PARAQUAT. : a highly toxic contact herbicide containing a salt of a cation [C12H14N2]2+. ADVERTISEMENT.
Paraquat is the trade name for N,N′-dimethyl-4,4′-bipyridinium dichloride, is the organic compound with the formula [(C 5 H 4 N) 2 ]Cl 2. It is classified as a viologen, a family of redox-active heterocycles of similar structure. This salt is one of the most widely used herbicides. 
1 Because paraquat is highly poisonous, the form that is marketed in the United States has a blue dye to keep it from being confused with beverages such as coffee, a sharp odor to serve as a warning, and an added agent to cause vomiting if someone drinks it. How you could be exposed to paraquat. 1  Paraquat is not known to have been used in any terrorist attacks or wars. 2  The most likely route of exposure to paraquat that would lead to poisoning is ingestion (swallowing). 3  Paraquat can be mixed easily with food, water, or other beverages.
Paraquat: A toxic chemical widely used as an herbicide (plant killer), primarily for weed and grass control. Paraquat is highly poisonous. It was first produced for commercial purposes in 1961. 
1 The extent of poisoning caused by paraquat depends on the amount, route, and duration of exposure and the person’s health condition at the time of the exposure. 2  Paraquat causes direct damage when it comes into contact with the lining of the mouth, stomach, or intestines. How you could be exposed to paraquat. 1  Paraquat is not known to have been used in any terrorist attacks or wars. 2  The most likely route of exposure to paraquat that would lead to poisoning is ingestion (swallowing). 3  Paraquat can be mixed easily with food, water, or other beverages.