The history of Waltz. The Waltz is the oldest of the ballroom dances, dating from the middle of the Eighteenth Century. The German Lander, a folk dance, is supposed to be the forerunner of the Waltz. It is not known exactly when the waltz was introduced to the United States. It was probably brought to New York and Philadelphia at about the same time, and by the middle of the Nineteenth Century was firmly established in United States society.
You can find out where the majority of the Waltz families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Waltz immigration records. You can find out when most of the Waltz families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination
History [edit]. The name waltz comes from the German verb walzen, in turn taken from the Latin verb volvere, which describes the turning or rotating movement characteristic of the dance. A waltz (German: Walzer; French: Valse, Italian: Valzer, Spanish: Vals, Polish: Walc), probably deriving from German Laendler, ländler is dance music in triple, meter often written in time signature/3. 4
The waltz (from German: Walzer) is a smooth, progressive ballroom and folk dance, normally in triple (help·info) time, performed primarily in closed position. There are several references to a sliding or gliding dance—a waltz—from the 16th century, including the representations of the printer H.S. Beheim. The French philosopher Montaigne wrote of a dance he saw in 1580 in Augsburg, where the dancers held each other so closely that their faces touched.
The name Waltz is German, but of Latin extraction and has the same definition as Voltz, in the Latin, or Valce, in the French, meaning to move as a round body, circular motion, turning around or rolling, as applied to rolling the ground. 
Origin of Waltz, Meaning of Waltz. Origin: This name is origin from Germany. It means 'going on one's travels', similar to 'to wander'. Earlier in times when carpenters where not resident in towns, they 'wandered' around and asked people if they'd work for them to do. In German that means 'going on the 'walz''. Top Places of Origin for Waltz You can find out where the majority of Waltz families were living before they immigrated to the U.S. You can learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Ports of Departure for Waltz You can pinpoint where the majority of Waltz families booked passage to the US.
Waltz Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the Waltz families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Name History and Origin for Waltz Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background. Top Places of Origin for Waltz You can find out where the majority of Waltz families were living before they immigrated to the U.S. You can learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Ports of Departure for Waltz You can pinpoint where the majority of Waltz families booked passage to the US.
The waltz swept out of Germany in the middle of the eighteenth century to conquer all of Europe, inspiring an old German verse: Whosoever the dance did discover/Had in mind each maid and lover/With all their burning ardor. The name of the waltz is taken from the Italian volver-to turn, or revolve. 