), also known as Thessalonica, Salonika or Salonica, is the second-largest city in Greece and the capital of Greek Macedonia, the administrative region of Central Macedonia and the Decentralized Administration of Macedonia and Thrace. Thessaloniki is the second largest city in Greece. It is an influential city for the northern parts of the country and is the capital of the region of Central Macedonia and the Thessaloniki regional unit.
In ancient times Thessalonica was about the midpoint of the Via Egnatia – the famous Roman Road that ran for 493 mi. [790 km.] from Dyrrhachium and Apollonia on the Adriatic Sea eastward to Kypsela that is located east of the Hebrus River. Today Thessaloniki is the second largest city in Greece (750,000) and most of the remains from the New Testament era are either destroyed or covered over by the modern city. However, recently excavations in the center of the city have revealed the remains of an ancient forum (agora).
After the fall of the kingdom of Macedon in 168 BC, Thessalonica became a city of the Roman Republic. It grew to be an important trade-hub located on the Via Egnatia, the Roman road connecting Byzantium (later Constantinople), with Dyrrhachium (now Durr s in Albania), and facilitating trade between Europe and Asia. During the first three centuries of the Christian era, Thessalonica was the capital of the whole country between the Adriatic and the Black Sea; and even after the founding of Constantinople it remained practically the metropolis of Greece, Macedonia, and Illyricum.
Thessalonica (4 folders). Thessalonica (modern Thessaloniki also called Salonika) is located 187 mi. [300 km.] north of Athens (as the crow flies). In the days of the apostle Paul it was the capital of the province of Macedonia and was a free city.. Today Thessaloniki is the second largest city in Greece (750,000) and most of the remains from the New Testament era are either destroyed or covered over by the modern city. However, recently excavations in the center of the city have revealed the remains of an ancient forum (agora).
- Ancient Geography Thessalonica in Easton's Bible Dictionary a large and populous city on the Thermaic bay. It was the capital of one of the four Roman districts of Macedonia, and was ruled by a praetor. It was named after Thessalonica, the wife of Cassander, who built the city. Strabo in the first century speaks of Thessalonica as the most populous city in Macedonia. Visit of Paul. --St. Paul visited Thessalonica (with Silas and Timothy) during his second missionary journey, and introduced Christianity there.
The history of the city of Thessaloniki is a long one, dating back to the Ancient Greeks. The city was founded around 315 BC by King Cassander of Macedon, on or near the site of the ancient town of Therma and twenty-six other local villages. King Cassander of Macedon named the new city after his wife Thessalonike, a half-sister of Alexander the Great.
Bibleplaces.com. History. Thessalonica was the capital of one of the four Roman districts of Macedonia and was named after the wife of Cassander, who built the city. Those in Thessalonica adored many gods, particularly Jupiter, as the father of Hercules, the alleged founder of its ancient royal family. 
Map of the Roman Empire-Thessalonica. Thessalonica. L-5 on the Map. Ancient Thessalonica - (Thessaloniki) formerly `Thermae' (hot springs). It was named after wife of Cassander of Macedon, she was the daughter of Philip and sister of Alexander the Great. During the Roman Empire Thessalonica was the capital of Amphaxitis, Macedonia, and it was a large and flourishing city. During the first three centuries of the Christian era, Thessalonica was the capital of the whole country between the Adriatic and the Black Sea; and even after the founding of Constantinople it remained practically the metropolis of Greece, Macedonia, and Illyricum.
Thessalonica (Thessaloniki) was founded around 315 B.C. by Macedon's King Cassander, on or near the ancient site of Therma. The king named the city after his wife Thessalonike, who was Alexander the Great's half-sister. 