There are three ways to thaw frozen lamb safely: in the refrigerator, in cold water, and in the microwave. In the Refrigerator. Once frozen lamb has thawed in the refrigerator, roasts, steaks and chops can be stored safely in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days and ground lamb will be safe for 1 to 2 days. If you decide not to use it during this time period, you may refreeze lamb without cooking it first. In Cold Water. 
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge
{h3}Freezer of Refrigerator?{/h3] Lamb can be stored in either the refrigerator or freezer, depending on when it will be used. Lamb that will be used with a day or two should be stored in the refrigerator, kept in its original packaging, in the coldest area of the refrigerator. 
Refrigerator / Freezer. Most cuts of lamb can be safely stored in the refrigerator at temperatures between 33°F and 40°F for 2 or 3 days. They can be stored in a freezer with a temperature of 0°F or less for 6 to 9 months. Refrigerated ground lamb should be used within 1 or 2 days and can be stored in the freezer for up to 4 months
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Butter will keep for a long time refrigerated. Up to 6 weeks. You can also freeze this product and it will keep for over a year.   Hi-I only accessed this question as I h … ave just tried some butter I had in the fridge. It is now Sunday 14th June 2009.
Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. Butter will keep for a long time refrigerated. Up to 6 weeks. You can also freeze this product and it will keep for over a year.   Hi-I only accessed this question as I h … ave just tried some butter I had in the fridge. It is now Sunday 14th June 2009.
Storing. Refrigeration: Packaged whole cuts of fresh lamb may be refrigerated in their original wrapping in the coldest part of the refrigerator up to four or five days after purchase. Ground lamb can be stored in the refrigerator for up to two days; cooked lamb is at its best refrigerated no longer than four days. 1  Use an appliance thermometer and maintain a temperature of 34 to 38 ° F. 
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airtight container. Butter will keep for a long time refrigerated. Up to 6 weeks. You can also freeze this product and it will keep for over a year.   Hi-I only accessed this question as I h … ave just tried some butter I had in the fridge. It is now Sunday 14th June 2009.
Leftover cooked lamb that is refrigerated should be used within 3 or 4 days and can be frozen for up to 3 months. Lamb should be stored in the coldest part of the refrigerator until it is ready to use. Lamb that will not be used within a few days should be stored in the freezer. Most cuts of lamb can be safely stored in the refrigerator at temperatures between 33°F and 40°F for 2 or 3 days. They can be stored in a freezer with a temperature of 0°F or less for 6 to 9 months.