Ranitidine is a medicine that reduces the amount of acid in the stomach. It is used to treat and prevent heartburn (also known as reflux) and ulcers. It is also used to prevent damage to the stomach from certain medicines and diseases. Ranitidine comes in tablet, liquid, and injection forms. You may also hear ranitidine called by its brand name, Zantac®
Ranitidine Uses: An Overview. Ranitidine hydrochloride (Zantac ®) is a medication that is available both as a prescription medication and an over-the-counter drug. It is used to treat conditions related to the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Specific ranitidine uses include treatment or prevention of the following conditions: 1  Duodenal ulcers. 2  Gastric ulcers (stomach ulcers).
The prescription medication ranitidine is used for treating conditions such as heartburn, ulcers, acid indigestion, sour stomach, and GERD. It is used to treat conditions related to the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Specific ranitidine uses include treatment or prevention of the following conditions: 1  Duodenal ulcers. 2  Gastric ulcers (stomach ulcers).
Zantac ® (ranitidine hydrochloride) is a medication that is available both as a prescription medication and an over-the-counter drug. It is used to treat conditions related to the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Specific Zantac uses include treatment or prevention of the following conditions: 1  Duodenal ulcers. 2  Gastric ulcers (stomach ulcers).
1 Ranitidine is used to treat a number of problems caused by stomach acid. 2  It is an H2-receptor antagonist, also know as an H2 blocker or H2 histamine blocker. 3  It is used to reduce the amount of acid produced in the stomach. Listed below are the typical uses of ranitidine. 1  To treat stomach and duodenal ulcers. 2  To protect against stomach and duodenal ulcers. 3  To treat problems caused by acid in the gullet, a type of heartburn.
The drug is prescribed for conditions such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), ulcers, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, erosive esophagitis, upper gastrointestinal bleeding, heartburn, and other conditions where the stomach produces too much acid. It's sometimes used to prevent stress ulcers, aspiration of stomach acid during anesthesia, and stomach damage caused by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Zantac is in a class of drugs called H2 blockers, which block the production of acid in the stomach.
Zantac is used to treat and prevent ulcers in the stomach and intestines. It also treats conditions in which the stomach produces too much acid, such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and other conditions that cause heartburn. It's sometimes used to prevent stress ulcers, aspiration of stomach acid during anesthesia, and stomach damage caused by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Zantac is in a class of drugs called H2 blockers, which block the production of acid in the stomach.
Ranitidine for GERD. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is caused by acid reflux into the esophagus. Acid reflux is a term used for describing the backward flow of stomach acid into the esophagus. The stomach is designed to be able to handle the acid it produces; the esophagus, however, is not. Ranitidine is approved for the treatment of erosive esophagitis that has been diagnosed through an upper endoscopy (which usually involves a small camera inserted into the esophagus through the mouth). Ranitidine is also approved to prevent erosive esophagitis from returning once it has healed.
Ranitidine (/rəˈnɪtɨdiːn/ ; trade name Zantac) is a histamine H2-receptor antagonist that inhibits stomach acid production. It is commonly used in treatment of peptic ulcer disease and gastroesophageal reflux disease. Ranitidine is also used alongside fexofenadine and other antihistamines for the treatment of skin conditions such as hives. Ranitidine was discovered and developed by scientists at Glaxo Pharmaceuticals, now a part of GlaxoSmithKline.
Ranitidine works by reducing the amount of acid your stomach produces. Ranitidine is used to treat and prevent ulcers in the stomach and intestines. It also treats conditions in which the stomach produces too much acid, such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Ranitidine also treats gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and other conditions in which acid backs up from the stomach into the esophagus, causing heartburn. Ranitidine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.