Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid drug that is used as a potent analgesic or anesthetic adjuvant. The agent is available under various brand names including Duragesic, Sublimaze, Actiq, Onsolis, Instanyl and Fentora.
Fentanyl has a rapid onset of action, which lasts only for a short time. The drug is widely used in the management of breakthrough pain as well as an anesthetic. Fentanyl is also used in the form of a transdermal patch to manage chronic pain.
1 APPEARANCE: Crystals or crystalline powder. 2  DESCRIPTION: Fentanyl is a member of the class of drugs known as fentanyls, rapid-acting opioid (synthetic opiate) drugs that alleviate pain without causing loss of consciousness (analgesic). 3  Fentanyl depresses central nervous system (CNS) and respiratory function.
This study supports that fentanyl and morphine are comparable in providing analgesia for ischemic-type chest pain. Fentanyl appears to be a safe and effective alternative to morphine for the management of chest pain in the prehospital setting.
1 tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to fentanyl, or any other medications, or any of the ingredients in fentanyl patches. 2  Ask your doctor or pharmacist or check the Medication Guide for a list of the ingredients.
1 DESCRIPTION: Fentanyl is a member of the class of drugs known as fentanyls, rapid-acting opioid (synthetic opiate) drugs that alleviate pain without causing loss of consciousness (analgesic). 2  Fentanyl depresses central nervous system (CNS) and respiratory function. 3  Exposure to fentanyl may be fatal.
Currently, both fentanyl and/or morphine may be carried by EMS systems with morphine being predominantly used to treat suspected ischemic-type chest pain. Given the large patient volume, there are operational and patient safety-related advantages of utilizing a single narcotic agent.
Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid that acts at the mu opioid receptor. It takes 8 to 16 hours before the full effect of transdermal fentanyl is observed, and steady state is not observed until after two to four applications of the '72-hour' patches.
There are four different forms of fentanyl transdermal patches 25, 50, 75 and 100 mcg/hour. The transdermal patch releases fentanyl at a constant rate for up to 72 hours. Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid with short-acting analgesic activity. The fentanyl patch is a proper option for cancer pain control.