These changes lead to the subdivision of the ventral body cavity, or coelom. The diaphragm, a flat muscular sheet, divides the ventral body cavity into a superior thoracic cavity, bounded by the chest wall, and an inferior abdominopelvic cavity, enclosed by the abdominal wall and by the bones and muscles of the pelvis. The Thoracic Cavity The walls of the thoracic cavity surround the lungs and heart; associated organs of the respiratory, cardiovascular, and lymphatic systems; the inferior portions of the esophagus; and the thymus.
1 The two pleural cavities are situated on both sides of the body, anterior to the spine and lateral to the breastbone. 2  The superior mediastinum is a wedge-shaped cavity located between the superior regions of the two thoracic cavities. The cavities include: 1  Dorsal body cavity. 2  cranial cavity, enclosed by the skull and contains the brain. 3  spinal canal, enclosed by the spine and contains the spinal cord. 4  Ventral body cavity. 5  thoracic cavity, enclosed by the ribcage and contains the lungs and heart. 6  abdominopelvic cavity.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Corrie Olson. Confidence votes 24. The lungs are located in the thoracic body cavity which is a division of the ventral cavity. 1 Common Signs and Symptoms Related to Mesothelioma Mesothelioma is a disease in which tumor cells form in the lining of the lungs, chest cavity and/or abdomen. 2  These tumors are either benign or malignant, and your doctor uses….
FIGURE 1-11 Body Cavities. (a) The dorsal body cavity is bounded by the bones of the skull and vertebral column. The muscular diaphragm divides the ventral body cavity into a superior thoracic (chest) cavity and an inferior abdominopelvic cavity. The Thoracic Cavity The walls of the thoracic cavity surround the lungs and heart; associated organs of the respiratory, cardiovascular, and lymphatic systems; the inferior portions of the esophagus; and the thymus.
The thoracic cavity contains the lungs and the heart, which is located in the mediastinum. The diaphragm forms the floor of the thoracic cavity and separates it from the more inferior abdominopelvic cavity. The abdominopelvic cavity is the largest cavity in the body. The cavities include: 1  Dorsal body cavity. 2  cranial cavity, enclosed by the skull and contains the brain. 3  spinal canal, enclosed by the spine and contains the spinal cord. 4  Ventral body cavity. 5  thoracic cavity, enclosed by the ribcage and contains the lungs and heart. 6 
1. Cranial cavity: cranial means skull, this cavity is located in the head superior the medial, and is surrounded by the skull. It also contains the pituitary and endocrine glands. 2. Thoracic cavity: thoracic means chest, this cavity is located in the anterior portion of the body and the mediastinum. It contains the cavity that surrounds the breast bone and ribs. Containing the lungs, heart, trachea, larynx and bronchial tubes. 3. Thoracic cavity: This cavity contains the lungs, heart, trachea, pharynx, larynx and bronchial tubes. 3. Abdominal cavity: This cavity includes the diaphragm, stomach, liver, kidneys, gallbladder, and stomach, large intestines and small intestines.
The lungs are located in the thoracic body cavity which is a division of the ventral cavity. 
Body Cavities. Body cavities are areas in the body that contain our internal organs. The dorsal and ventral cavities are the two main cavities. The dorsal cavity is on the posterior (back side) of the body and contains the cranial cavity and spinal cavity. In human anatomy, dorsal, caudal and posterior mean the same thing. The ventral cavity is on the front (anterior) of the body and is divided into the thoracic cavity (chest) and abdominopelvic cavity.
A body cavity is any fluid-filled space in a multicellular organism other than those of vessels (such as blood vessels and lymph vessels). The term usually refers to the space located between an animal ’s outer covering (epidermis), and the outer lining of the gut cavity, where internal organs develop. The cavities include: 1  Dorsal body cavity. 2  cranial cavity, enclosed by the skull and contains the brain. 3  spinal canal, enclosed by the spine and contains the spinal cord. 4  Ventral body cavity. 5  thoracic cavity, enclosed by the ribcage and contains the lungs and heart. 6  abdominopelvic cavity.
For example, because they are inside body cavities, the lungs, heart, stomach, intestines, urinary bladder, and many other organs can expand and contract without distorting surrounding tissues or disrupting the activities of nearby organs. The dorsal body cavity contains the brain and spinal cord. The Thoracic Cavity The walls of the thoracic cavity surround the lungs and heart; associated organs of the respiratory, cardiovascular, and lymphatic systems; the inferior portions of the esophagus; and the thymus.