That could be pork’s new slogan after the United States Department of Agriculture on Tuesday said it was lowering its safe cooking temperature to 145 degrees, from the longtime standard of 160. The new recommendation is in line with what many cookbook authors and chefs have been saying for years. 
Pork Cuts and Cooking Information. Pork today is very lean and shouldn’t be overcooked. The best test of doneness is to use an instant-read meat thermometer to check the internal temperature of your pork. Use this chart as a guideline for cooking times. 
The National Pork Board suggests cooking to a final internal temperature of 160F degrees, which can be achieved by cooking to 155F degrees and removing the tenderloin from the oven to rest 10 minutes (the temperature will rise several degrees). If you’re using a glaze, apply it now. Place skillet in the oven and roast 15 to 20 minutes, until internal temperature is 145F degrees. Remove from the oven, tent the pork with foil and let it rest about 5 minutes before serving.
Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly. Place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Remember that the pork will continue to cook after it's removed from the heat and the internal temperature will rise about 5 to 10 degrees F. in the first few minutes it's off the heat.
Pork in Canada (whole cuts) need to be cooked to an internal temperature of 160˚F (71˚C). For more information please visit the following link: http://www.befoodsafe.ca/en-temperature.asp. Pork in USA need to be cooked to an internal temperature of 145˚F for whole meats with a 3 minute resting period. For more information please go the the following link: http://www.fsis.usda.gov/news/NR_052411_01/index.asp. 1 When cooking stuffed pork roasts, ensure the tip of the meat thermometer is in the meat, not the stuffing. 2  Check to make sure that your thermometer is oven-safe: oven-safe thermometers can stay in the meat and allow you to check the temperature without opening the oven door.
New cooking guidelines from the nation’s food-safety agency confirm Pork Checkoff research that shows pork can be consumed safely when cooked to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit, followed by a three-minute rest time. Ground pork, like all ground meat, should be cooked to 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Regardless of cut or cooking method, both the USDA and National Pork Board recommend using a digital cooking thermometer to ensure an accurate final temperature.
Internal Temperature Cooking Chart Beef-Pork-Poultry-Fish and Seafood-Baked Goods copyright 2004 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. This web site may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission and appropriate credit given. Place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Remember that the pork will continue to cook after it's removed from the heat and the internal temperature will rise about 5 to 10 degrees F. in the first few minutes it's off the heat.
It measures the internal temperature of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, breads, baked goods, and/or casseroles to assure that a safe temperature has been reached and that harmful bacteria (like certain strains of Salmonella and E. Coli O 157:H7) has been destroyed. Place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Remember that the pork will continue to cook after it's removed from the heat and the internal temperature will rise about 5 to 10 degrees F. in the first few minutes it's off the heat.
The temperature will rise 5 degrees F. to 10 degrees F. internal temperature. So, pay attention to how long you let the cooked meat sit before serving. Carry-over cooking is caused by residual heat transferring from the hotter exterior of the meat to the cooler center. Place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Remember that the pork will continue to cook after it's removed from the heat and the internal temperature will rise about 5 to 10 degrees F. in the first few minutes it's off the heat.
The National Pork Board recommends cooking pork chops, roasts, and tenderloin to an internal temperature between 145° F. (medium rare) and 160° F. (medium), followed by a 3 minute rest. Since large cuts increase approximately 10° F. while resting, remove them from the heat at 150° F. followed by a 10 minute rest. 