This category lists vehicles that have been sold by the Ford Motor Company under the Ford brand. This does not include their sub-brands, such as Jaguar and Aston Martin. See the sub-categories for vehicles sold under sub-brands. 
The names of cars start with letters of the alphabet. Some of the  names are Acura, Chevrolet, Kia and Toyota. Cars that start with the letter P? Packard, Park Avenue (Buick), Patriot (Jeep), Perodua, Peugeot, Pierce-Arrow, Pinto (Ford), Pontiac Grand Prix, Porsche, Proton, Prowler (Plymouth) and Puma (Ford) are cars.
1 I can think of Poniac, Prius, Pinto, Pacer, Park Avenue, Path Finder. 2  I don't know of any cars start start with P (pee). Confidence votes 1. 1  I'm not sure how many there are
PONTIAC Pontiac is a marque of automobile produced by General Motors and sold in the United States, Canada and Mexico from 1926 to the present. The Pontiac brand was introduced by General Motors in 1926 as the 'companion' marque to GM's Oakland Motor Car line. Panhard was originally Panhard et Levassor and was established as a car manufacturing concern in about 1890 by Ren Panhard and Emile Levassor. Benz and Daimler, both of Germany, produced pilot models before this time, and Benz was in production by about 1888 with his three-wheeler.
PAGANI Pagani Automobili S.p. A. is an Italian automobile manufacturer of high-performance supercars and high-quality carbon fiber that Lamborghini also uses in its cars. The company was founded by Horacio Pagani, an Argentinian-Italian, living in Italy; at San Cesario sul Panaro (Modena, Italy). Panhard was originally Panhard et Levassor and was established as a car manufacturing concern in about 1890 by Ren Panhard and Emile Levassor. Benz and Daimler, both of Germany, produced pilot models before this time, and Benz was in production by about 1888 with his three-wheeler.
This list of car brands tries to show every brand or marque of car ever used; some are manufacturing companies in their own right that also use their company name as a model name, and others are subsidiary companies, divisions or products of badge engineering. 1 All car brands-a collection of many (300) car brands. 2  Car Makes-a list of most popular car makes. 3  Vehiclebook.net-a list of 900+ car brands with over 40.000 models. 4  Car Brand Names-a list of most popular car brand names.
Packard was a United States based brand of luxury automobile built by the Packard Motor Car Company of Detroit, Michigan, and later by the Studebaker-Packard Corporation of South Bend, Indiana. The first Packard automobiles were produced in 1899 and the brand went off the market in 1958. Panhard was originally Panhard et Levassor and was established as a car manufacturing concern in about 1890 by Ren Panhard and Emile Levassor. Benz and Daimler, both of Germany, produced pilot models before this time, and Benz was in production by about 1888 with his three-wheeler.
1 I'm not sure how many there are. 2  I can think of Poniac, Prius, Pinto, Pacer, Park Avenue, Path Finder. 3  I don't know of any cars start start with P (pee). Confidence votes 1. 1  I'm not sure how many there are. 2