Overview of Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery. Many insurance companies will provide coverage for weight loss surgery if it is considered a medical necessity and the patient meets the National Institute of Health (NIH) requirements for bariatric surgery. To help with the insurance approval process, send all documentation of previous weight loss attempts. Most insurance companies require a Letter of Medical Necessity for bariatric surgery pre-authorization. A Letter of Medical Necessity is a statement written by the patient's doctor detailing a patient's health condition and why weight loss surgery is necessary.
Many insurance companies will not consider a request for weight loss surgery unless a patient has previously participated in a medically supervised weight loss program. This type of weight loss program includes diet, exercise, or medication for weight loss which is monitored by a doctor. Most insurance companies require a Letter of Medical Necessity for bariatric surgery pre-authorization. A Letter of Medical Necessity is a statement written by the patient's doctor detailing a patient's health condition and why weight loss surgery is necessary.
The average cost of gastric bypass surgery is $23,000, the average cost of lap band is $14,500, and the average cost of sleeve gastrectomy surgery is $14,900. So before getting too involved, spend time determining if your insurance will cover weight loss surgery. It depends on your policy not the insurance carrier. You can check if your insurance company is likely to offer weight loss surgery coverage. However, it’s your individual policy that’s important. Some policies specifically exclude coverage.
If you’re considering bariatric surgery and want your health insurance to pay for it, you may have to jump through a few hoops. It's common to find health insurance companies that will not pay for weight-loss surgery, yet these same insurers are paying for years of treating the conditions associated with obesity. Source: ASMBS, Health Affairs. The average bariatric surgery costs $17,000 to $26,000, according to the ASMBS. Even with your doctor’s recommendation and coverage available from your health insurance policy, your health insurer might not pay for the surgery.
Weight loss surgery is expensive. Typical costs can run from $20,000 to $25,000, according to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. The price of your weight loss surgery will depend on several factors: 1  The type of surgery you're having. If you don’t have health insurance, you’ll likely have to pay the entire bill yourself. Some weight loss surgery centers can help you get a loan that you can repay over a number of years. 1  1. 2  2.
Losing weight takes work. But when you have a lot of weight to lose, and if exercise and diet aren't enough, you might consider weight loss surgery, also called bariatric surgery. You'll probably have questions about how much it costs, what insurance covers, and how to convince your insurance to cover the bill. Here’s what you should know. If you don’t have health insurance, you’ll likely have to pay the entire bill yourself. Some weight loss surgery centers can help you get a loan that you can repay over a number of years. 1  1. 2  2.
Insurance coverage for weight loss surgery varies by state and insurance provider. If you are considering weight loss surgery, the first step is to contact your insurance plan to find out if the procedure is covered and what, if any, caveats may exist. In general, the costs of weight loss surgery comprise anesthesia, the hospital facility and the surgeon's fee. There will also likely be additional costs after surgery, including those associated with diet and fitness plans, behavioral modification therapy and nutritional supplements.
Insurance is typically the best way to go when you are considering weight loss surgery. However, many procedures are not covered by insurance. Historically, gastric sleeves, duodenal switches, mini-gastric bypasses and other ‘experimental’ procedures are not covered. It depends on your policy not the insurance carrier. You can check if your insurance company is likely to offer weight loss surgery coverage. However, it’s your individual policy that’s important. Some policies specifically exclude coverage.
“Even if your policy excludes weight loss surgery, if your insurance carrier deems it a medical necessity you may be able to successfully fight for surgery coverage.“. The list below is organized by insurance company. We include the following important information for each insurance company listed: 1  Which weight loss surgeries are covered. 2  Required criteria before gastric bypass, Lap Band or other procedures are approved for coverage. 3  If Lap Band fills are covered after surgery.