A few months before Marco Polo was born in 1254, his father Niccolo and uncle Maffeo left Italy on a trading excursion to Asia. The brothers returned to Venice in 1269, and it was only then that 15-year-old Marco finally met Niccolo, the father he never knew he had. 
Marco Polo was born between September 15 and 16, 1254, in Venice, perhaps in the former contrada of San Giovanni Crisostomo, where his house stood. His father, Niccolo Niccolò, polo a, merchant traded with The Near, east becoming wealthy and achieving great. prestige Marco Polo was not the first European to reach China (see Europeans in Medieval China), but he was the first to leave a detailed chronicle of his experience. This book inspired Christopher Columbus and many other travellers.
Introduction. Marco Polo (1254-1324) was a Venetian merchant believed to have journeyed across Asia at the height of the Mongol Empire. He first set out at age 17 with his father and uncle, traveling overland along what later became known as the Silk Road. Upon reaching China, Marco Polo entered the court of powerful Mongol ruler Khubilai Khan, who dispatched him on trips to help administer the realm. Marco Polo remained abroad for 24 years.
Synopsis. Marco Polo was born in 1254, in Venice, Italy. He traveled extensively with his family, journeying from Europe to Asia from 1271 to 1295. He remained in China for 17 of those years. Around 1292, he left China, acting as consort along the way to a Mongol princess who was being sent to Persia
Hulton Archive/ Getty Images. Marco Polo was born in Venice in 1254 and raised by his mother. His father, Niccolo Polo, was a successful trader who spent most of Marco's childhood traveling with Marco's uncle. The two men returned to Venice when Marco was a teenager, only to find out that his mother had died while they were gone. 
Marco Polo © Polo was a Venetian traveller and writer who was one of the first westerners to visit China. Marco Polo was born in around 1254 into a wealthy and cosmopolitan Venetian merchant family. Polo's father and uncle, Niccolo niccolò And Maffeo, polo were jewel. merchants 
Marco Polo: The Early Years. Marco Polo was born around 1254 into a prosperous merchant family in the Italian city-state of Venice. His father, Niccolo, niccolò and his Uncle maffeo had left the year before on a-long term trading. expedition He first set out at age 17 with his father and uncle, traveling overland along what later became known as the Silk Road. Upon reaching China, Marco Polo entered the court of powerful Mongol ruler Khubilai Khan, who dispatched him on trips to help administer the realm. Marco Polo remained abroad for 24 years.
Marco Polo lived throughout a period called the middle ages. Marco Polo was born in 1254 in Venice, Italy. He died on January 8, 1324 in Venice, Italy. He died when he was 69 years old, due to illness. Marco was buried by The Church of San Lorenzo. 
View full size image. Marco Polo was one of the first and most famous Europeans to travel to Asia during the Middle Ages. He traveled farther than any of his predecessors during his 24-year journey along the Silk Road, reaching China and Mongolia, where he became a confidant of Kublai Khan. Three years after returning to Venice, Marco Polo assumed command of a Venetian ship in a war against Genoa. He was captured and, while being held in a Genovese prison, he met a fellow prisoner and romance writer called Rustichello. When prompted, he dictated his adventures to