Here are some daily self-care remedies to prevent dizziness after eating. 1  Eat meals regularly to avoid feeling dizzy after eating. 2  Avoid over eating. 3  Small amount of food at regular intervals prevents you from being light-headed after eating. 4  A healthy breakfast is of utmost importance. Shellfish contain some toxins that can also cause damage. Food with excessive amounts of salt or food that hasn’t been cooked properly can also make you dizzy after eating. Some people also feel light-headed after eating canned foods, pickled vegetables and foods with lots of baking powder.
Feeling dizzy and light headed after eating sweets. I am a hypochondriac and haven t been feeling well for about a year, so i bought a home blood sugar testing thing. after not eating for 14 hours it read 137. I am 6 weeks pregnant. Feeling very light headed after eating the last few days, especially lunch. I had gestational diabetes with my last pregnancy; and have had very light spotting for last few ...
Feeling dizzy and light headed after eating sweets. I get my blood taken evet year and my glucose level always reads 70 or75. Just 2 weeks ago it was 70. I m 5 2 and weigh 106lbs. I just finished eating something sweet after my meal and became very lighted and slightly dizzy. The same thing happened to me yesterday. People also viewed. 1  Permanent cure for diabetes. 2  Diabetic feeling light headed. 3  Just ate feel dizzy pale hot after eating diabetes. 4  Lump between ribcage on newborn. 5  Fucosidosis type 1. 6  Is mansterbating harmfull.
Photo Credit 9nong/iStock/Getty Images. A nutritious lunch should make you feel energized and ready to tackle the rest of your day. Feeling light-headed or dizzy after a meal can bring your productivity to a halt, and the root cause is worth discovering. 
Hi dyana1625. Lightheadedness after eating is indeed one of the symptoms of diabetes. But it could also be a sign of other disorders and conditions, such as low blood pressure or anemia. Low sodium and imbalance in electrolytes could also cause lightheadedness. I wouldn't blame food on that. 
Some people who regularly feel light-headed after eating tend to write it off as a normal occurrence and ignore the symptom completely. However, people suffering from this condition should beware as getting dizzy after eating may be the only early symptom of an actual underlying condition. Shellfish contain some toxins that can also cause damage. Food with excessive amounts of salt or food that hasn’t been cooked properly can also make you dizzy after eating. Some people also feel light-headed after eating canned foods, pickled vegetables and foods with lots of baking powder.
In most cases, feeling light-headed after eating is followed by fainting which is an even more distressing symptom. Despite the fact that these symptoms are worrying to go through and observe, dizziness after eating sugar or other food is only serious if it happens very often. Shellfish contain some toxins that can also cause damage. Food with excessive amounts of salt or food that hasn’t been cooked properly can also make you dizzy after eating. Some people also feel light-headed after eating canned foods, pickled vegetables and foods with lots of baking powder.
Suggest ways to control diabetes. dizzy and light headed and need to take something sweet immediately. After getting that I feel nausea ...Hi, I am 24 years old female. It's been about a week that after eating any meal or something I feel ... I am 6 weeks pregnant. Feeling very light headed after eating the last few days, especially lunch. I had gestational diabetes with my last pregnancy; and have had very light spotting for last few ...
Dizziness. Dizziness can often be caused by medication. Because diabetes is such a diverse disease with many complications, it can cause dizziness in many ways by affecting different parts of the body. Dizziness is an episode of unsteadiness and unbalance as a result of something affecting the brain or ear