The phosphate buffer system is NOT an important blood buffer as its concentration is too low. The concentration of phosphate in the blood is so low that it is quantitatively unimportant. Phosphates are important buffers intracellularly and in urine where their concentration is higher. 2.2.3 The Bicarbonate Buffer System. The major buffer system in the ECF is the CO 2 -bicarbonate buffer system. This is responsible for about 80% of extracellular buffering. It is the most important ECF buffer for metabolic acids but it cannot buffer respiratory acid-base disorders.
The most important organs in the respiratory system are the lungs.  In the lungs, the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide take place,  and without this mechanism, life wil … l not be sustained. Answered. In Biology. buffer systems function mainly to regulate the acid or base balance in the body. there are 3 principal classes of buffers in the body-proteins, phosphate buffer system and t … he bicarbonate buffer system. however, you are asking of the organs involved. these are the kidneys and the lungs. 6 people found this useful.
Confidence votes 781. buffer systems function mainly to regulate the acid or base balance in the body. there are 3 principal classes of buffers in the body-proteins, phosphate buffer system and the bicarbonate buffer system. however, you are asking of the organs involved. these are the kidneys and the lungs.
A physiological buffer is a system that stabilizes pH by controlling the body's output of acids, bases, and carbon dioxide (mostly the respiratory and urinary system). These a … re not part of buffer systems. A chemical buffer either binds or releases hydrogen ions to stabilize (raise or lower) pH. there are 3 principal classes of buffers in the body-proteins, phosphate buffer system and the bicarbonate buffer system. however, you are asking of the organs involved. these are the kidneys and the lungs.
The pK for the phosphate buffer is 6.8, which allows this buffer to function within its optimal buffering range at physiological pH. The phosphate buffer only plays a minor role in the blood, however, because H 3 PO 4 and H 2 PO 4 - are found in very low concentration in the blood. Other pH-Buffer Systems in the Blood. Other buffers perform a more minor role than the carbonic-acid-bicarbonate buffer in regulating the pH of the blood. The phosphate buffer consists of phosphoric acid (H 3 PO 4) in equilibrium with dihydrogen phosphate ion (H 2 PO 4 -) and H + .
Others bind hydrogen ions when the environment becomes too acidic, thus raising pH balance to normal levels. Physiological buffers-systems that control the body's output of acids, acid bases, or carbon dioxide. The body's two main physiological buffers are the urinary system and the respiratory system. Of all the buffer systems, the urinary system buffers the greatest quantity of acid. It is quite slow, however, as it requires several hours to days to respond to changes in acidity. 
The pH buffer systems work chemically to minimize changes in the pH of a solution by adjusting the proportion of acid and base. The most important pH buffer system in the blood involves carbonic acid (a weak acid formed from the carbon dioxide dissolved in blood) and bicarbonate ions (the corresponding weak base). 
Extracellular Buffers. The most important buffer in the ECF and the body is HCO3- (bicarbonate) which combines with excess H+ ions to form carbonic acid. Take for instance an acid load of H2SO4 produced via metabolism of methionine: H2SO4 + 2NaHCO3 → NA2SO4 + 2H2CO3 →2CO2 + 2H2O + NA2SO4. Note in this buffering reaction that bicarbonate reacts with a strong acid to form a weaker acid(H2CO3) which then dissociates into CO2 and H2O. The CO2 produced here does not reform H2CO3 because it is then excreted by the lungs. Note that HCO3- is used up in this reaction.