Vanessa's origin is Latin, and its use, English and German. The name was first invented by the Irish poet Jonathan Swift (1667-1745) as a nickname for his lover Esther Vanhomrigh, derived from 'Van' from the Dutch surname Vanhomrigh and the feminine suffix '-essa', probably inspired by the first name Esther. Vanessa is a popular baby girl name. The name's popularity increased from the 1940s up to the 1980s; before that, it was of only very light use. At the modest height of its usage in 1985, 0.410% of baby girls were named Vanessa. It had a ranking of #42 then.
Greek Meaning: The name Vanessa is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Vanessa is: Butterfly. Also, from Phanessa, the mystic goddess of an ancient Greek brotherhood. American Meaning: The name Vanessa is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Vanessa is: Butterfly. Also, from Phanessa, the mystic goddess of an ancient Greek brotherhood. Latin Meaning: The name Vanessa is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Vanessa is: Of Venus.
Confidence votes 7.8K. The name Vanessa does not have a meaning. It is of English origin, and was an early 18th-century literary name created by Jonathan Swift for Gulliver's Travels. The name is also a genus of butterflies that includes the Red Admiral and the Painted Lady. The name Vanessa was invented by author Jonathan Swift for his poem 'Cadenus and Vanessa' (1726). He came up with the name by rearranging the initial syllables of the first na … me and surname of Esther Vanhomrigh, his close friend. Vanessa was later used as the name of a genus of butterfly.
What does Vanessa mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Vanessa is of Greek origin. The meaning of Vanessa is a genus of butterflies. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is literary invention. Vanessa is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Va-ne-ssa. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 171 in baby name popularity for girls with 1913 occurrences.
Vanessa /va-nes-sa/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced va-NESS-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Vanessa is butterfly. The name of a genus of butterflies that includes the Red Admiral and the Painted Lady. Vanessa is a very prominent first name for women (#195 out of 4276, Top 5%) but an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Vanessa for girls.
Also possibly an early-18th-century literary name of English origin created by Jonathan Swift for Gulliver's Travels as a pseudonym for Esther Vanhomrigh, based on the first syllable of her surname, and possibly the Latin verb esse, meaning to be. Jenessa, Vanita and Vannaleigh are compound forms. Vanessa is a very prominent first name for women (#195 out of 4276, Top 5%) but an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Vanessa for girls.
Meaning & History. Invented by author Jonathan Swift for his poem 'Cadenus and Vanessa' (1726). He arrived at it by rearranging the initial syllables of the first name and surname of Esther Vanhomrigh, his close friend. Vanessa was later used as the name of a genus of butterfl