Motor yacht MAGIC is a 45.72m (150') superyacht built by Trinity yachts in 1998. Motor yacht Magic has interior styling from Dee Robinson and received a refit in 2004 as well as a paint job in 2009. Motor yacht MAGIC has a large Main Salon with 3 comfortable couches facing each other in the centre of the room.
Serene is one of the world's largest private superyachts. She was built by Italian shipyard Fincantieri and delivered to her owner in August 2011. At delivery, she was one of the 10 largest yachts in the world with an overall length of 439.3 feet and a beam of 60.7 feet. She was built for Russian vodka tycoon Yuri Scheffler for $330m
Trinity Yacht motor yacht Magic can accommodate up to 10 guests in 5 luxurious cabins. The on deck Master Stateroom is full with of the beam and features a King bed, and ensuite bath with Spa Pool tub and a large shower. The stateroom also features a Sony 36 TV/DVD/CD/AM-FM Stereo. Motor yacht Magic has interior styling from Dee Robinson and received a refit in 2004 as well as a paint job in 2009. Motor yacht MAGIC has a large Main Salon with 3 comfortable couches facing each other in the centre of the room.
Luxury motor yacht Magic, built in 2004 by American shipyard Northern Marine, sees a contemporary departure for the company who usually builds heavy, trawler-style vessels. Motor yacht Magic was the largest built by Northern Marine at her launch although she has since been succeeded by the 46 metre Lia Fail. Owners Merlin and Carolyn Hanson requested she be created to reflect a high-speed vessel with a displacement hull easily used in shallow waters. The interior is a reflection of the traditional yachts of the 1930s, using timeless details like fluted columns and intricate mouldings to set-off satin-finished raised-panel mahogany. The interior design is highly personalized, featuring significant input by Carolyn Hanson and a handpicked group of stylists.
Luxury yacht Magic Captain: Mac MacDonald It is now my 14th year in yachting. I started my career delivering yachts for local brokerage houses in Ft. Lauderdale, gaining the respect of the industry as a solid performer and an extremely safe Captain. I was also teaching PADI diving on the local reefs off Ft. Lauderdale. Luxury Yacht Charter Boat 'Magic' Crew Info. Luxury yacht Magic will be chartering in the Mediterranean this summer and the Caribbean during the winter. Magic is wonderfully appointed and with her five staterooms she is a floating masterpiece which will generously accommodate up to ten charter guests
Motor yacht MAGIC attains speeds of 1.5 20 knots and has a crew of 10 to pamper you while onboard. M/Y MAGIC charters in the Eastern and Western Mediterranean during the summer and in the Bahamans during the Winter. Motor yacht Magic has interior styling from Dee Robinson and received a refit in 2004 as well as a paint job in 2009. Motor yacht MAGIC has a large Main Salon with 3 comfortable couches facing each other in the centre of the room.
This elegant vessel measures 39.62 metres and can accommodate up to 10 guests. Motor yacht Magic was the largest built by Northern Marine at her launch although she has since been succeeded by the 46 metre Lia Fail. Owners Merlin and Carolyn Hanson requested she be created to reflect a high-speed vessel with a displacement hull easily used in shallow waters. The interior is a reflection of the traditional yachts of the 1930s, using timeless details like fluted columns and intricate mouldings to set-off satin-finished raised-panel mahogany. The interior design is highly personalized, featuring significant input by Carolyn Hanson and a handpicked group of stylists.
For national teams of New Zealand, see Sport in New Zealand#New Zealand national teams. Team New Zealand (since 2007, with sponsorship by Emirates airline, known as Emirates Team New Zealand or ETNZ) is a sailing team based in Auckland, New Zealand representing the Royal New Zealand Yacht Squadron. Team New Zealand has become a household name in their home country following their consecutive wins in the America's Cup in 1995 and 2000. In doing this, they became the first team from a country outside the United States to win and then defend the America's Cup.