Baroreceptors (or archaically, pressoreceptors or baroceptors) are sensors located in the blood vessels of all vertebrate animals. They sense the blood pressure and relay the information to the brain, so that a proper blood pressure can be maintained. Baroreceptors are a type of mechanoreceptor sensory neuron that is excited by stretch of the blood vessel.
A mechanoreceptor is a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion. Normally there are four main types in glabrous skin: Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's discs, and Ruffini endings. In glabrous (hairless) skin, there are four principal types of mechanoreceptors, each shaped according to its function. The tactile corpuscles (also known as Meissner corpuscles) respond to light touch, and adapt rapidly to changes in texture (vibrations around 50 Hz).
Cardiovascular sensory receptors and their regulatory mechanisms. Fahim M(1). Author information: (1)Department of Physiology, Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute, University of Delhi. vpci@delnet.ren.nic.in. The role of cardiovascular receptors in the neural regulation of circulatory system is now well established. Atrial type B receptors located in the two atria and veno-atrial junctions, which are stimulated by atrial filling are believed to play an important role in the regulation of body fluid volume and heart rate. 
The low-pressure baroreceptors, are found in large systemic veins, in pulmonary vessels, and in the walls of the right atrium and ventricles of the heart (the atrial volume receptors). The low-pressure baroreceptors are involved with the regulation of blood volume. They sense the blood pressure and relay the information to the brain, so that a proper blood pressure can be maintained. Baroreceptors are a type of mechanoreceptor sensory neuron that is excited by stretch of the blood vessel.
1 Common Symptoms Associated With Salt-sensitive Hypertension High blood pressure, also referred to as hypertension, is a medical condition in which the body's blood pressure levels are continuously higher than 140 over 90. 3 people found this useful. 1 
Lamellar corpuscles, or Pacinian corpuscles, are pressure receptors located in the skin and also in various internal organs. Each is connected to a sensory neuron. Because of its relatively large size, a single lamellar corpuscle can be isolated and its properties studied. In glabrous (hairless) skin, there are four principal types of mechanoreceptors, each shaped according to its function. The tactile corpuscles (also known as Meissner corpuscles) respond to light touch, and adapt rapidly to changes in texture (vibrations around 50 Hz).
The baroreceptors, located in the carotid sinuses, respond to changes and absolute levels of blood pressure. These nerves go to centers in the brain stem and trigger changes i … n heart rate and venous tone. 3 people found this useful. 1  Common Symptoms Associated With Salt-sensitive Hypertension High blood pressure, also referred to as hypertension, is a medical condition in which the body's blood pressure levels are continuously higher than 140 over 90.
Baroreceptors can be divided into two categories based on the type of blood vessel in which they are located: high-pressure arterial baroreceptors and low-pressure baroreceptors (also known as cardiopulmonary or volume receptors). They sense the blood pressure and relay the information to the brain, so that a proper blood pressure can be maintained. Baroreceptors are a type of mechanoreceptor sensory neuron that is excited by stretch of the blood vessel.
Arterial baroreceptors are stretch receptors that are stimulated by distortion of the arterial wall when pressure changes. The baroreceptors can identify the changes in both the average blood pressure or the rate of change in pressure with each arterial pulse. They sense the blood pressure and relay the information to the brain, so that a proper blood pressure can be maintained. Baroreceptors are a type of mechanoreceptor sensory neuron that is excited by stretch of the blood vessel.