Radiosurgery is another treatment option, most often for benign lesions (meningioma, schwannoma) or metastatic tumors. This technique allows for a very high one time dose of radiation to be delivered to the tumor while sparing surrounding brain structures. Symptoms. Symptoms of brain tumors depend on the location of the lesion but can include headaches, seizures, weakness or numbness on one side of the body, speech problems, or problems related to cranial nerves (including facial movement, hearing, vision, or swallowing). Symptoms are usually slow and progressive in nature
Recently we treated 3 adult male patients on the same day, all with meningiomas. Together they illustrate the fact that meningiomas are not always benign and slow growing, and when they occur in difficult positions it can make surgical treatment complex and risky. The first patient (65 year old male) originally presented 5 years previously with left sided weakness.
Meningioma is a type of slow-growing tumor that forms in the thin layers of tissue that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord. Learn about brain tumors and find information on how we support and care for people with meningioma before, during, and after treatment. The prognosis and treatment options for metastatic brain and spinal cord tumors depend on the following: 1  Whether there are more than two tumors in the brain or spinal cord. 2  Where the tumor i
Treatment of a meningioma is often done in stages, depending on the size and location of the tumor. Treatments can include observation, surgery and radiation. 1. Observation: If a meningioma is found when it is very small and causing few, if any, symptoms, physicians may choose to simply monitor the tumor over time. 
Brain tumors that begin in the brain may spread to other parts of the brain and spinal cord, but they rarely spread to other parts of the body. Treatment of primary brain and spinal cord tumors is based on the following: 1  The type of cell in which the tumor began. 2  Where the tumor formed in the brain or spinal cord. 1 An adult central nervous system tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain and/or spinal cord. 2  A tumor that starts in another part of the body and spreads to the brain is called a metastatic brain tumor.
1 The cause of most adult brain and spinal cord tumors is not known. 2  The signs and symptoms of adult brain and spinal cord tumors are not the same in every person. 3  Tests that examine the brain and spinal cord are used to diagnose adult brain and spinal cord tumors. 4  A biopsy is also used to diagnose a brain tumor. 1 An adult central nervous system tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain and/or spinal cord. 2  A tumor that starts in another part of the body and spreads to the brain is called a metastatic
About brain tumours. A meningioma is a type of brain tumour that starts in the brain or, occasionally, in the spinal cord. This information describes the causes, symptoms and treatments. It should be read with our general information brain tumours, which has more details about tests, treatments and their side effects. Treatment. The main treatments for meningioma are surgery and radiotherapy. Some people have the tumour monitored and delay treatment until it is needed. Your treatment will depend on the size and position of the tumour, your symptoms and general health.
In this article. A meningioma is a tumor that forms on membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord just inside the skull. Specifically, the tumor forms on the three layers of membranes that are called meninges. Meningiomas are rarely diagnosed before they begin to cause symptoms. If symptoms indicate the possibility of a tumor, a doctor may order a brain scan: an MRI and/or a CT scan. These will allow the doctor to locate the meningioma and determine its size. A biopsy may sometimes be performed.
A lot of brain tumors are curable and treatable. Unfortunately a brain tumor can be fatal as you well know. You'll get a lot of answers on this but I implore you to ask your Doctor lots of questions. Best Answer: No, unfortunately they are mostly incurable, but often treatable. About 25% of symptomatic, during life diagnosed brain tumors, arise from meninges:linings of the brain and are called meningiomas-and can be cured by operation, if in accessible location and totally resected.