Salary results for ACCA. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. 
Karen Young, director at Hays Accountancy & Finance, says: ‘The average salary for an ACCA trainee is currently around £19,300 per annum, while an ACCA part-qualified can expect to earn £25,800 per annum. ACCA finalists are commanding an average salary of £30,700 a year. Those with more than four years can expect to command a salary of £32,000.’. The average salary in Hong Kong, depending on your area of expertise (management or financial accounting) and levels of experience, junior accountant salaries tend to range from around £12,000 to £24,000 a year.
As an ICAEW Chartered Accountant you can look forward to a very competitive salary both while you train and once you are qualified. Your starting salary will depend on the size and type of organisation you work for, the sector you work in and the location. Salaries can increase during the course of your training. 1  The median starting salary for graduates in the accountancy sector is £30,000. The knowledge, skills and experience you gain through ACA training ensures you’ll have a highly rewarding career. ICAEW Chartered Accountants are always in demand. The ACA qualification equips you to perform to the highest level, whatever your aspirations
ACCA Jobs. The table below looks at the statistics for ACCA in IT jobs advertised across the UK. Included is a guide to the average salaries offered in IT jobs that have cited ACCA over the 3 months to 14 October 2015 with a comparison to the same period in the previous 2 years. The table below looks at the demand and provides a guide to the average salaries quoted in IT jobs citing ACCA within the UK over the 3 months to 14 October 2015. The 'Rank Change' column provides an indication of the change in demand within each location based on the same 3 month period last year.
Salary results for ACA. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. 
On average, jobs specifying an ACA pay £64k. If you have an ACCA you will typically find it difficult to get a job in equity research or other front office areas of an investment bank. ACCA qualified candidates are sought after for banks’ finance functions. That’s pretty good considering that the comparable ratios for candidates with an MBA or Masters qualification are 39 and 96 to one respectively. However, average pay for an ACA in Europe is ‘just’ £68k.
What can you expect from your salary when you have completed the ACCA Qualification? We surveyed ACCA members and recorded the results. Here you will find out how many expect a pay rise, how good their benefits are, and how many of them get bonuses with our accountancy qualifications. Many of our members have enjoyed pay rises and expect the same for the future. Here are some key salary findings from the survey: 1  ACCA members can expect their salary to increase strongly during their career and earn significantly more than the national average.
1 ACCA members can expect their salary to increase strongly during their career and earn significantly more than the national average. 2  61% of our members surveyed got a salary increase in the last 12 months. 3  Members are positive about future salary increases – 60% expect a pay increase in the next year. Many of our members have enjoyed pay rises and expect the same for the future. Here are some key salary findings from the survey: 1 
Career options and earning potential. The knowledge, skills and experience you gain through ACA training ensures you’ll have a highly rewarding career. ICAEW Chartered Accountants are always in demand. The ACA qualification equips you to perform to the highest level, whatever your aspirations