The Labrador makes a wonderful pet as the breed is generally considered friendly and well-balanced. With regular exercise, a healthy diet and lots of love, the Labrador can live to be 10-12 years old, although some are fortunate enough to reach 13 or 14. A common belief that 1 human year is equal to 7 dog years is not accurate, since dogs reach adulthood within the first two years of their life. The equation is 10.5 dog years for each human year for the first 2 years, then 4 dog years per human year for each year after. The Labrador is a highly athletic dog, and enjoys lots of exercise.
The rule of thumb is that the bigger a dog is the shorter the lifespan. Great Danes live about 7 years on average. Labs being considerable smaller can live till 12-14 usually. A Labrador will live for about 12-14 years. A healthy, well-cared-for Lab should live to be ca. 12-15 years. How long a Lab might live depends mostly on the health of the animal. I had a lab and she ended up getting cushins disease (seizures) and we had to put her to sleep when she w … as only 8 yrs old. But if your lab is in good health and has no physical issues then your pet might live quite a bit longer.
How long do Labradors live? Me and my family want to get a dog and we found this really cute Chocolate Labrador, but he is six years old. Soooo, thats why we are wondering if anyone knows like how old they can live to be so we don't get too attached and then have like the dog roll over and die.
Best Answer: Generally, the bigger the dog-the shorter the life. Most labs live between 10 and 15 years. But each dog can vary. But, getting an older dog is great! They are calmer and usually housebroken. Just remember to begin geriatric vet checkups at 8. Me and my family want to get a dog and we found this really cute Chocolate Labrador, but he is six years old. Soooo, thats why we are wondering if anyone knows like how old they can live to be so we don't get too attached and then have like the dog roll over and die.
The life span of your yellow Labrador is unlikely to be any different from that of your black Labrador, or your chocolate one. As far as we know, with the exception of color dilution alopecia in silver labradors, inherited diseases are not linked to any particular color or type of Labrador. How inherited diseases may affect your Labrador’s life span. While Labradors are relatively healthy, there are diseases in the breed that can influence how long a Labrador will live and how well or healthy each dog will be during that lifetime.
So “how long do Labradors live” is a popular question, and one that we are going to look at in today’s article. Many people will tell you that the average life expectancy of a Labrador is ten to twelve years. How inherited diseases may affect your Labrador’s life span. While Labradors are relatively healthy, there are diseases in the breed that can influence how long a Labrador will live and how well or healthy each dog will be during that lifetime.
If you are looking for information on how long Labradors live for, read our in-depth article on Labrador Life Span. It may surprise you as it did me, to find out that the pet food companies classify a dog as young as seven years as ‘senior’. However long your Labrador’s stay on earth is, you will want to make the most of it and keep him as fit and healthy as you can for as long as you can. Regular vet checks, a healthy diet, and making sure your dog stays slim and well exercised are all part and parcel of ensuring your dog has a long and happy life.
If you are new dog owner, especially a Labrador owner, you will be will quite anxious to know how to take care of your little bundle of joy and also its life expectancy. So here is some information caring for a Labrador Retriever. The life span of a healthy Labrador is anything between 10 to 13 years. Some Labradors also live up to the age of 14. You may have noticed that I used to word healthy Labradors. This is because Labradors can be prone to diseases. Labradors need lots of exercise to keep fit. Take them for long walks in the parks, but don’t overdo it. Take them to the vet at least twice a year for a complete checkup. A simple routine of brushing its hair, at least thrice a week should keep its coat clean.
If your question is, How long do dogs live? my answer is, The life expectancy of the average dog is about 12 years, with a typical lifespan range of 8-16 years.. So if you want to know how long YOUR dog will live, of course no one can know the future, but I can give you a pretty good idea....if you tell me a few things about your dog. Dog Lifespan Quiz ™. Please answer every question! 1.
Labrador retrievers live an average of about 12-15 years, however health problems can occur. One of the oldest dogs in the world is said to be a chocolate lab on the 'veggie … diet' and is now in it's 20's, but there is no rock solid, 100% exact evidence there is not a complication to the headline! How long a Lab might live depends mostly on the health of the animal. I had a lab and she ended up getting cushins disease (seizures) and we had to put her to sleep when she w … as only 8 yrs old. But if your lab is in good health and has no physical issues then your pet might live quite a bit longer.