Kelly Ripa and Michael Strahan: The ratings for 'Live!' have gone up since Regis Philbin left. Our source says that in New York, Regis and Strahan are now often invited to the same VIP parties. “This guy’s got better ratings than Regis ever got,” our source says. “It’s upsetting for him, he’s the greatest guy. Regis Philbin, seen here on his farewell Live!'' in November 2011, hasn't been on the show since. Michael Strahan is officially a TV darling — and Regis Philbin isn’t happy about it.
Michael Strahan's Salary. $10 Million Per Year. Michael Strahan net worth and salary: Michael Strahan is a retired American football player and current talk show host who has a net worth of $45 million. Michael Strahan was born in Houston, Texas on November 21, 1971. 
TV Guide Magazine recently released a full list of salaries for more than 150 TV stars. Among the highest paid names are Michael Strahan, co-host of ‘Live with Kelly & Michael!’ and Aisha Tyler, of ‘The Talk.’. $4 million! This makes him the third highest paid TV star in the ‘Daytime/Syndication’ category. Tyler comes in fifth in the category, earning $1 million. Judge Judy Sheindlin and Katie Couric come in first and second in the category, respectively.
Being Kelly Ripa 's #2 sure does pay ... just ask Michael Strahan, who's throwing down serious cash to rent a $20 MILLION mega mansion in Beverly Hills ... adjacent. Michael and hot fiancee Fiancée Nicole murphy sold Their Bel air home earlier this week for$ 11. million just ask Michael Strahan, who's throwing down serious cash to rent a $20 MILLION mega mansion in Beverly Hills ... adjacent. Michael and hot fiancee Fiancée Nicole murphy sold Their Bel air home earlier this week for$ 11. Million get ... this
It was a striptease that launched the latest chapter in Michael Strahan 's career. Just two years ago, the former New York Giant defensive end was a regular among the parade of guest co-hosts (59 in total) on the daytime show known as Live With Kelly since Regis Philbin had retired in 2011. 
$45,000,000 Michael brings in the big bucks from his estimated $20-million-plus yearly salary hosting TV shows like LIVE with Kelly and Michael, Good Morning America and Fox NFL Sunday, along with the millions he made in his 15 years with the New York Giants. Getty Images. 141.5 Sacks. 
UPDATED: Michael Strahan, one half of Live! With Kelly & Michael, also soon will be seen on ABC ‘s morning infotainment program Good Morning America. Strahan will continue to co-host his daytime talker with Kelly Ripa. Ripa also had been approached about joining GMA, but she declined, according to a source with knowledge of the situation.
Regis left in November 2011, leaving an empty spot. After twenty guest appearances over two years, Strahan was selected as Kelly Ripa 's new co-host on September 4, 2012, marking his first official day on the rechristened syndicated talk show, Live! with Kelly and Michael. Strahan was born in Houston, Texas. He is the son of Louise (Traylor) Strahan, a basketball coach, and Gene Willie Strahan, a boxer with a 1-1 record against future heavyweight Ken Norton.
Being Kelly Ripa 's #2 sure does pay ... just ask Michael Strahan, who's throwing down serious cash to rent a $20 MILLION mega mansion in Beverly Hills ... adjacent. Michael and hot fiancee Fiancée Nicole murphy sold Their Bel air home earlier this week for$ 11. Million get ... this