Now blue-green meat, that's bad for you! ~Tommy Smothers. make sure you soak and dry your nuts before turning it into flour, especially if using a lot. oh, i see that you use the packaged flour, duh. nuts can be tough on the tummy. we have a juicer that turns nuts into nut butter. refrigerate. not sure how long it lasts. take the flour put into blender with oil and voila.
Once it’s opened, it will stay fine for only 2-3 weeks, if you’ll store it properly. When almond milk is exposed to room temperature for an extended period of time (like 24 hours) it’ll probably go bad, so you should always remember to store it in the pantry (when it’s unopened), or in the fridge (when it’s opened).
What an excellent question! I feel the same way you do about peanut butter and almond butter (and, for that matter, cow butter). I only ever eat the organic unsweetened kind so when I refrigerate it, it gets extra hard and unmanageable which is just no fun. Here's the thing: officially, you have to refrigerate it. Once opened, almond butter and peanut butter, especially the kind without added salt, sugar, or preservatives, is incredibly susceptible to rancidity and spoilage.
I do have a jar of almond butter that I keep refrigerated because I currently prefer my peanut butter as it's a particularly delicious blend of virgin coconut oil and peanuts. Freaking amazing, if slightly off-topic. Point is, if you're eating almond butter very regularly, I think it's cool to leave it unrefrigerated.
A lot of people state, that it can be fine up to 3 weeks after being opened. You should also be aware of the fact, that almond milk goes bad very quickly when it’s exposed to room temperature. It’s probably bad after about 24 hours in that
One more thing you should know – homemade almond milk (if you’d like to make almond milk yourself, make sure to buy a nut milk bag) doesn’t contain any preservatives, so it will go bad in a matter of a few days, when stored in the fridge.
If you don’t have electricity, you can store almond butter on the shelf for up to nine months, and after it’s opened, for up to three months, but again, use your eyes, nose and common sense. I’ve not been able to find a reliable source of information on this, so I can only offer my own experience.
I feel the same way you do about peanut butter and almond butter (and, for that matter, cow butter). I only ever eat the organic unsweetened kind so when I refrigerate it, it gets extra hard and unmanageable which is just no fun.