Tonic contains 83 mg. of quinine in a liter. An eight-ounce glass or tonic would only have about 20 mg of quinine, considerably less than the dose that used to be prescribed for leg cramps (200 to 300 mg). Clearly, quinine can be dangerous for certain people, but the FDA has not banned quinine from tonic water. Quinine gives this beverage its distinctive flavor. Either the FDA doesn’t consider tonic water a danger to public health or the agency worries about arousing the ire of millions of gin and tonic drinkers.
Tonic water (or Indian tonic water) is a carbonated soft drink, in which quinine is dissolved. Originally used as a prophylactic against malaria, tonic water usually now has a significantly lower quinine content and is consumed for its distinctive bitter flavour. It is often used in mixed drinks, particularly in gin and tonic. 
Uses of This Medicine. Quinine is used to treat malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum. Plasmodium falciparum is a parasite that gets into the red blood cells in the body and causes malaria. Quinine works by killing the parasite or preventing it from growing. 
Quinine will not treat severe forms of malaria, and it should not be taken to prevent malaria. Quinine also should not be taken to treat or prevent night-time leg cramps. Using this medication improperly or without the advice of a doctor can result in serious side effects or death. Some people have used quinine to treat leg cramps, but this is not an FDA-approved use. Using this medication improperly or without the advice of a doctor can result in serious side effects or death. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has banned the sale of all non-approved brands of quinine.
Once used as a medicinal drink, tonic water is a popular carbonated beverage that contains quinine. Quinine has be used to hasten uterine contractions during childbirth. Quinine can be used as medication against malaria. Quinine has long been used to treat fever and muscle cramps. Using insect repellent spray may help reduce the chances of being bitten by mosquitos. Quinine powder is known for its bitter taste. 
Quinine occurs naturally in the bark of the cinchona tree, though it has also been synthesized in the laboratory. The medicinal properties of the cinchona tree were originally discovered by the Quechua, who are indigenous to Peru and Bolivia; later, the Jesuits were the first to bring cinchona to Europe. Quinine can, in therapeutic doses, cause cinchonism; in rare cases, it may even cause death (usually by pulmonary edema). The development of mild cinchonism is not a reason for stopping or interrupting quinine therapy, and the patient should be reassured.
1 Review. Quinine is the generic form of the brand-name drug qualaquin, a medication used to treat uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria, a specific type of malaria. Malaria is a disease caused by parasites that typically enter the body through the bite of a mosquito. It's common in Africa, South America, and Southern Asia. Quinine will not treat other forms of malaria, and should not be taken to prevent malaria.
Quinine is only approved for the treatment of malaria. Tonic water contains quinine but it does not have enough quinine to help with leg cramps. Common side effects associated with quinine can include headache, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, hives, fever, ringing in the ears, vision problems, and bleeding problems. Malaria is a disease caused by parasites that typically enter the body through the bite of a mosquito. It's common in Africa, South America, and Southern Asia. Quinine will not treat other forms of malaria, and should not be taken to prevent malaria.
Quinine was the first effective Western treatment for malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum, appearing in therapeutics in the 17th century. It remained the antimalarial drug of choice until the 1940s, when other drugs, such as chloroquine, that have fewer unpleasant side effects replaced it. Quinine can, in therapeutic doses, cause cinchonism; in rare cases, it may even cause death (usually by pulmonary edema). The development of mild cinchonism is not a reason for stopping or interrupting quinine therapy, and the patient should be reassured.