In a Salary Sacrifice Scheme the employer invests the salary sacrificed by the employee, £1,791 pa and also the employer NI savings of £229 pa. The employer's NI is saved because the employer pays a smaller gross salary to the employee, £22,209 instead of £24,000 in this example. As an alternative to the Net Pay Scheme, the employee can opt for a salary sacrifice scheme. Under this arrangement the employee opts to sacrifice part of their gross income for a corresponding pension contribution. This pension contribution is treated as an employer's contribution by the Inland Revenue.
In a generic sense, salary sacrifice is the principle of forgoing a portion of your salary in exchange for some sort of non-cash benefit. In the case of a pension, you would be sacrificing a portion of your pay in exchange for more money in your pension pot and lower taxes and insurance contributions. Potential Disadvantages. It seems at first glance that participating in a salary sacrifice pension scheme is a good deal for workers. However, it is not always the best option. To begin with, a worker must be confident that the lower salary will be enough to sustain his or her monthly budget.
Example. You earn £28,000 a year and decide you want to sacrifice £1,500 of your salary in return for your employer paying an extra £1,500 into your pension. Your take-home pay, after tax, National Insurance and your own pension contributions, falls from £20,452 to £19,492. Salary sacrifice is when you agree to give up part of your salary so you can get extra benefits from your employer. Find out more about how it works. How salary sacrifice works. Things to consider before taking salary sacrifice.
Salary Sacrifice Schemes. INFORMATION ABOUT SALARY SACRIFICE SCHEMES. Salary sacrifice allows an employee to give up part of their pay in return for a defined non-cash benefit from their employer. This benefit is exempt of Tax and National Insurance which means a financial saving for the employee
Salary sacrifice is an especially tax-efficient way for you to make pension contributions. You may also benefit from more pension contributions from your employer, if they are giving you some or all the money they are saving on NICs. But you need to weigh up four disadvantages against this too. 1  If your employer is providing you with life cover, this is usually worked out as a multiple of your salary.
Take the example of an employee, earning £40,000 per annum, paying 5% into their pension. If this was done via salary sacrifice, the employer would save 13.8% of what was sacrificed, which is £276 p.a. (based on 2012/13 tax rates and assuming the scheme is contracted-in). Multiply this out for 300 employees, and the saving becomes approximately £83k each and every year the scheme runs. Although salary sacrifice is not a new idea, it has grown in popularity in recent years as more employers take advantage of the tax and national insurance savings they can generate. Our research indicates that the vast majority of UK companies with employee benefits in place have implemented a salary sacrifice scheme.
Your employer might offer a salary sacrifice pension scheme to all salaried workers on the payroll. This type of pension scheme is voluntary, but it may be to your advantage if your financial circumstances are right. Potential Disadvantages. It seems at first glance that participating in a salary sacrifice pension scheme is a good deal for workers. However, it is not always the best option. To begin with, a worker must be confident that the lower salary will be enough to sustain his or her monthly budget.
Salary sacrifice, or salary exchange, is a tax-efficient agreement between you and your employer, where you agree to give up an amount of future earnings (either salary or bonus). 
The idea behind this is quite simple. You give up part of your salary and, in return, your employer gives you a non-cash benefit, such as childcare vouchers, or increased pension contributions. Once you accept a salary sacrifice, your overall pay is lower, so you pay less tax and National Insurance. Salary sacrifice is when you agree to give up part of your salary so you can get extra benefits from your employer. Find out more about how it works. How salary sacrifice works. Things to consider before taking salary sacrifice.