In general you receive your first Schengen-visa with a validity covering only the duration of your planned stay in the Schengen-Area (e.g. from November 1 to 12). For example: A person has a Schengen-Visa that is valid from 1 January 2013, until 31 December 2013, i.e. for one year. On 18 October 2013, this person (i.e. the visa holder) is in the Schengen-Area.
How long will my visa be valid for? A Schengen visa allows the holder to travel freely within the Schengen countries for a maximum stay of up to 90 days in a 6 month period. Schengen Visa holders are not allowed to live permanently or work in Europe.
A Schengen visa (or short stay visa) is valid within the whole Schengen space. Please click here to find out what are the Schengen states. This visa allows you to visit these 26 countries. It is issued for a maximum of 90 days per semester. 
In such a situation, you have to hold, at the time you apply, the visa issued by the country of final destination, if needed. This visa is valid for a maximum of 5 days. b) The short stay visa (C) is issued for private, family or business visit in France for a maximum of 90 days. c) The circulation visa is a short stay visa valid for several short visits within 1 year. A single-entry Kenya visa is valid for three months. It must be activated within six months of the date of issue. The multiple-entry visa to Kenya is valid for twelve months f … rom the date of issue but the total period of stay in the country cannot exceed three months. It is only issued to UK passport holders.
7 How long can I stay in the Schengen area on the basis of my visa? The Schengen visa is a short stay visa and takes the form of a sticker affixed to the travel document. The definition of “short stay” is a stay of 90 days in any 180 days period.
The holder of a long-stay visa or a residence permit issued by a Schengen country is entitled to move freely within the other states which comprise the Schengen Area for a period of up to 90 days in any 180 days. Long-stay visas issued by a Schengen country entitle the holder to enter the Schengen Area and remain in the territory of the issuing state for a period longer than 90 days, but no more than one year.
For subsequent travel(s), the Embassy can issue Schengen-visa(s) that permit the holder to stay in the Schengen-Area for a certain number of days within a certain period of time (e.g. 30 days between March 1 and May 31). For example: A person has a Schengen-Visa that is valid from 1 January 2013, until 31 December 2013, i.e. for one year. On 18 October 2013, this person (i.e. the visa holder) is in the Schengen-Area.
For example: if a Schengen visa has a duration of 30 days and a validity of 90 days starting today, that means it can be used to enter the Schengen area at any time in the next three months for a maximum of 30 days. For more information see Entry and stay in Italy. 
The duration is counted from the date of the first entry into the Schengen-Area. A Schengen-Visa with the validi ty of one year or more and a registered duration of stay of 90 days permits you, however, to stay in the Schengen-Area for a maximum period of 90 days per half-year (in Germany or other Schengen-Countries). For example: A person has a Schengen-Visa that is valid from 1 January 2013, until 31 December 2013, i.e. for one year. On 18 October 2013, this person (i.e. the visa holder) is in
The Schengen visa allows the holder to a total stay of up to 90 days within a period of 6 months for tourist or business purposes. If you get a multiple entry Schengen visa, you may leave and return any number of times within the 180-day period, but the combined stay within the region must not total more than 90 days. You need to apply for a Schengen visa if you are a citizen of a country whose citizens are subject to the visa requirement.