1 The intestinal infection is caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. 2  Cholera: An acute diarrheal disease endemic in India and Southeast Asia whose causative agent is VIBRIO CHOLERAE. 3  This condition can lead to severe dehydration in a matter of hours unless quickly treated. 4  Source-Diseases Database. Causes of Cholera: see causes of Cholera. Cause of Cholera: Feces exposure from poor hygiene and sanitation of food or water. Causes of Cholera: Nature of Acute Disease: Cholera is the name of the infection caused by V. cholerae. (Source: FDA Bad Bug Book) ... Contaminated drinking water or food. Large epidemics often related to fecal contamination of water supplies or street vended foods
During 2010–2013, major cholera epidemics affected several regions in the world. The Americas with Haiti and the Dominican Republic, Central Africa with the Lake Chad basin epidemic and the Pacific region with Papua New Guinea. 
Cholera is an acute, infectious disease caused by the consumption of water or food contaminated with the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. Cholera is a public health concern in developing countries all over the world, especially in Africa, south Asia, and Latin America. The bacterium that causes cholera is usually very sensitive to the acids present in the stomach and digestive tract. Small amounts of bacteria are killed by the stomach acids before they can establish themselves in the body.
Father. Physician. No human organ is directly affected by the bacterium responsible for causing cholera (Vibrio cholerae). This bacterium produces an exotoxin which causes cells in the intestine to excrete large amounts of water, producing a watery, and classically rice-water diarrhea. Cholera is a diarrheal illness caused by a toxin produced by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. The toxin causes massive amounts of water to be excreted into the lumen of th … e bowel, thus producing copious watery diarrhea.
Vibrio cholerae bacteria can cause cholera, which is an acute, diarrheal illness that can result in severe dehydration and even death within a matter of hours. These bacteria … are not likely to spread directly from one person to another; therefore, casual contact with an infected person is not a risk for becoming ill. Cholera is a diarrheal illness caused by a toxin produced by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. The toxin causes massive amounts of water to be excreted into the lumen of th … e bowel, thus producing copious watery diarrhea.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. When the bacteria that cause cholera enter the body, some of it can be killed by stomach acid. However, some of the bacteria travel to the small intestine, causing the loss of large amounts of salt and water in the form of watery diarrhea. The resulting dehydration, when severe, can cause death.
No human organ is directly affected by the bacterium responsible for causing cholera (Vibrio cholerae). Cholera is a diarrheal illness caused by a toxin produced by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. The toxin causes massive amounts of water to be excreted into the lumen of th … e bowel, thus producing copious watery diarrhea.