license. To practice as an. in California, you must be licensed by the California State Board of Registered Nursing (BRN). You must meet educational requirements, pass a criminal background check, and pass the national licensing examination. To apply for licensure: 1 In addition to a U.S. high school education or the equivalent as as described in Section 1412 of the Board's regulations to become a registered nurse (RN) you should take the following classes in high school, and you will have a head start on your nursing class prerequisites at college:
Educational Requirements for Registered Nurses. Nursing students may choose from a variety of education options to become a registered nurse. Some teaching hospitals offer 3-year diploma programs in nursing; however, these programs are rare. Most RNs earn associate degrees or bachelor's degrees in nursing. Licensure Requirements for Registered Nurses. To practice in the profession, registered nurses must become licensed. While licensure requirements vary according to state, they typically include passage of a state-approved training program and the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN).
There are three major educational paths that can be followed to become a Registered Nurse. A student must successfully complete one of these degree programs to be eligible for the NCLEX-RN licensing examination. Once a student passes this exam they are able to practice as a Registered Nurse (RN). BSN programs require at least four but not more than five academic years of college academic credit, in a higher education institution. UCI’s program has a strong emphasis on research and science, and includes general education requirements of the university.
Registered nurses (RNs) are healthcare professionals who care for patients and educate them about their health conditions. Becoming an RN requires the completion of a postsecondary program, usually an associate or bachelor's degree, although a few hospitals have teaching programs that offer diplomas. Licensure Requirements for Registered Nurses. To practice in the profession, registered nurses must become licensed. While licensure requirements vary according to state, they typically include passage of a state-approved training program and the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN).
A registered nurse (RN) is a nurse who has graduated from a nursing program and met the requirements outlined by a country or state licensing body in order to obtain a nursing license. An RN's scope of practice is determined by local legislation governing nurses, and usually regulated by a professional body or council. 
RN education degree requirements range from a diploma to a bachelor’s degree. Diploma programs are offered at hospitals and typically last three years. Associate’s degrees in nursing are offered at community colleges and take two to three years to complete. 
Page Content. Education and experience required to become a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) include: A Bachelor’s of Science in Nursing (BSN) or other appropriate baccalaureate degree. A current license as a registered nurse. At least one year’s experience in an acute care nursing setting. Graduation from an accredited graduate school of nurse anesthesia. These educational programs range from 24-36 months, depending upon university requirements, and offer a master’s degree.
Education Requirements for an RN. There are generally three educational approaches to becoming a RN. RNs usually train by completing a bachelor's or associate's degree program in nursing. Less commonly, RNs prepare for the occupation by earning a diploma in nursing. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a registered nurse. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degrees, job duties and state licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
Licensure for an RN. All states require RNs to obtain licensure after completion of an approved nursing program. Licensing requirements vary by state, but all licensing boards require RNs to pass the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN) before practicing in the profession. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a registered nurse. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degrees, job duties and state licensure to find out if this is the career for you.