1 High blood pressure. 2  There is inconsistent evidence about the effects of reishi mushroom on high blood pressure. 3  Early research suggests that taking reishi mushroom extract daily for 12 weeks does not lower blood pressure in people with slightly high blood pressure. Reishi mushroom is a fungus that some people describe as “tough” and “woody” with a bitter taste. The fruiting body (above-ground part) and mycelium (filaments connecting a group of mushrooms) are used as medicine.
The standard for the name mushroom is the cultivated white button mushroom, Agaricus bisporus; hence the word mushroom is most often applied to those fungi (Basidiomycota, Agaricomycetes) that have a stem (stipe), a cap (pileus), and gills (lamellae, sing. lamella) on the underside of the cap. Mushroom describes a variety of gilled fungi, with or without stems, and the term is used even more generally, to describe both the fleshy fruiting bodies of some Ascomycota and the woody or leathery fruiting bodies of some Basidiomycota, depending upon the context of the word.
By Dr. Mercola Mushrooms contain some of the most potent natural medicines on the planet. Of the 140,000 species of mushroom-forming fungi, science is familiar with only 10 percent, according to world-renown mycologist Paul Stamets, who has written six books on the topic. Two years ago, I interviewed Steve Farrar, who worked and studied mushrooms professionally for the last 30 years. The first 20 years he spent growing them and working primarily with gourmet chefs, but in the past decade, he's started applying his expertise of mushrooms to health purposes.
Crimini Mushrooms. Crimini mushrooms, also known as Portobello mushrooms, are good for supporting the immune system, and a healthy immune system can aid in fighting arthritis and ward against cancer. These mushrooms help the immune system by shifting the activities of white blood cells. Shiitakes are heart-healthy mushrooms that are full of antioxidants. If you're looking to lower your cholesterol, try a heaping helping of this savory fungus. They contain eritadenine, which is known to reduce cholesterol levels. It's good news for the heart.
Reishi mushrooms are edible and though they are not as commonly consumed as other mushrooms, they may be incorporated into a healthy soup or other recipe, for example. Reishi combines well with shiitake, onion, garlic, cilantro and miso. SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Reishi mushroom, which is also known as Ganoderma lucidum, is an Asian mushroom that grows at the base of hardwood trees, forming a shelf-like shape and displaying a characteristic deep reddish-brown color.
Maitake is also known by the name Dancing Mushroom, famous for its taste and health benefits. In Japan, Maitake Mushroom is called King of Mushroom. The fruiting body and the mycelium of Maitake are used medicinally. In China and Japan, Maitake Mushrooms have been consumed for 3000 years. Years ago in Japan, the Maitake had monetary value and was worth its weight in silver
A mushroom (or toadstool) is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source. Mushroom describes a variety of gilled fungi, with or without stems, and the term is used even more generally, to describe both the fleshy fruiting bodies of some Ascomycota and the woody or leathery fruiting bodies of some Basidiomycota, depending upon the context of the word.
Mushrooms, though classified as vegetables in the food world, are not technically plants. They belong to the fungi kingdom and although they are not vegetables, mushrooms provide several important nutrients. It's common knowledge that the key to getting enough vitamins and minerals in the diet is to eat a colorful variety of fruits and vegetables-the more color, the better. Mushrooms contain just as high an antioxidant capacity as carrots, tomatoes, green and red peppers, pumpkins, green beans, and zucchini. 4. Selenium is a mineral that is not present in most fruits and vegetables but can be found in mushrooms.