This flour also tends to be ground more coarsely. Pumpernickel: Real pumpernickel bread is made using a specific kind of flour called, appropriately enough, pumpernickel flour. This flour is made from coarsely-ground whole rye berries. In some traditional recipes, breadcrumbs left from other rye loaves are added to the dough for pumpernickel bread. Pumpernickel loaves tend to be dense, dark, and strongly flavored.
Pumpernickel bread is usually made with a high proportion of rye flour and a small amount of wheat flour. It's the rye flour however that's of particular interest. Traditional Old World black pumpernickel bread uses coarse rye flour that's ground from the entire rye berry. This flour is sometimes referred to as 'meal'. Rye meal can also be ground fine or medium.
As for the pumpernickel bread, it is made from a kind of flour known as pumpernickel flour made from coarsely ground rye berries. In certain particular recipes, crumbs from other rye breads can be added to the pumpernickel bread dough. Pumpernickel bread loaves are usually dense and dark with strong flavoring. The flour for making pumpernickel is coarsely ground while that for rye is not coarse. 3. Pumpernickel bread tends to be darker and more strongly flavored than regular rye breads. 4. Pumpernickel bread is also more sweetened than regular rye breads due to the long slow baking over low heat.
Pumpernickel (English pronunciation: /ˈpʌmpərnɪkəl/ ; [ˈpʊmpɐˌnɪkəl]) is a typically heavy, slightly sweet rye bread traditionally made with coarsely ground rye. It is often made with a combination of rye flour and whole rye berries. Although it is not known whether this and other early references refer to precisely the bread that came to be known as Pumpernickel, Westphalian pumpernickel is distinguished by use of coarse rye flour—rye meal and a very long baking period, which gives the bread its characteristic dark color.
Any rye flour works in this pumpernickel-rye bread recipe, but we recommend a dark rye. If you can find a coarsely ground rye or pumpernickel flour—often available in health-food and specialty baking stores—by all means use it here. You'll end up with extra-savory loaves. In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine whole-wheat flour, rye flour, cocoa powder, caraway seeds, salt, and espresso powder. Attach dough hook and, with mixer on low, mix in yeast and molasses mixtures. Add 1 1/2 cups bread flour and mix to combine.
Summary: 1.A â regular rye breads are made from endosperm ground flour while pumpernickel is from whole berry ground. flour. 2 the flour for making pumpernickel is coarsely ground while that for rye is not. coarse. 3 pumpernickel bread tends to be darker and more strongly flavored than regular rye. breads The flour for making pumpernickel is coarsely ground while that for rye is not coarse. 3. Pumpernickel bread tends to be darker and more strongly flavored than regular rye breads. 4. Pumpernickel bread is also more sweetened than regular rye breads due to the long slow baking over low heat.
For the bread to be considered true pumpernickel, it should be made from whole-grain rye flour; it is the nutritious bran and germ of the rye that gives pumpernickel its rich chocolate color. The amount of dietary fiber in a single slice of pumpernickel bread is about the same as that found in a 1/4 cup of raisins or a 1/2 cup of brown rice -- both considered good sources of fiber.
2. The flour for making pumpernickel is coarsely ground while that for rye is not coarse. 3. Pumpernickel bread tends to be darker and more strongly flavored than regular rye breads. 4. Pumpernickel bread is also more sweetened than regular rye breads due to the long slow baking over low heat.
Pumpernickel is a traditional Westphalian whole-grain bread made from rye flour and coarse rye meal. According to the original German recipe, the bread is made mainly from rye meal, which is boiled for a number of hours to soften it. The dough is stuffed into a square bread form, then baked at 395°F (200°C). 
Pumpernickel is made with pumpernickel flour, which is made from whole rye berries that have been coarsely ground. According to The Kitchn, pumpernickel differs from regular rye bread because while the former is made from the whole rye berry, the latter is made from the endosperm of the rye berry. Pumpernickel is a type of rye bread that is originally from Germany. The origin of the word is pretty entertaining: It's a German word that comes from pumpern, which means to to break wind and Nickel, a take on the name Nicholas, which is associated with goblins or devilish characters.