Diastasis of this muscle occurs principally in two populations: newborns and pregnant women. It is also known to occur in men. 1  In the newborn, the rectus abdominis is not fully developed and may not be sealed together at midline. 2  Diastasis recti is more common in premature and black newborns. 1 Diastasis recti is more common in premature and black newborns. 2  In pregnant or postpartum women, the condition is caused by the stretching of the rectus abdominis by the growing uterus.
Separation of the abdominal muscles during pregnancy. During pregnancy, the growing uterus stretches the muscles in the abdomen. This can cause the two large parallel bands of muscles that meet in the middle of the abdomen to separate — a condition called diastasis recti or diastasis recti abdominis. Diastasis recti might cause a bulge in the middle of the abdomen where the two muscles separate. The condition might be noticeable only when the abdominal muscles are tense, such as during coughing.
Diastasis recti (also known as abdominal separation) is commonly defined as a gap of roughly 2.7 cm or greater between the two sides of the rectus abdominis muscle. This condition has no associated morbidity or mortality. 1 Diastasis recti is more common in premature and black newborns. 2  In pregnant or postpartum women, the condition is caused by the stretching of the rectus abdominis by the growing uterus.
Diastasis Recti is a separation of the rectus abdominus muscle. It is actually a stretching of the fascial attachments surrounding the rectus sheath as the muscles part or split. It is noticeable as a bulge in the midline of the abdominals when the trunk is flexed during pregnancy. During the post partum period this area presents as a gap in the rectus sheath.
Diastasis Recti, also referred to as ‘Divarication of the Recti’ or ‘Rectus Divarification’, is the widening of the gap between the 2 sections of the Rectus Abdominis (or 6 pack) abdominal muscle. 
Diastasis means separation. Recti refers to your ab muscles called the rectus abdominis.. When the ab muscles move aside like this, the uterus, bowels, and other organs have only a thin band of connective tissue in front to hold them in place. Without the needed muscle support, a vaginal delivery could be more difficult
“ Diastasis recti ” means your belly sticks out because the space between your left and right belly muscles has widened. You might call it a “pooch.”. It's very common among pregnant women. About two-thirds of pregnant women have it. Recti refers to your ab muscles called the rectus abdominis.. When the ab muscles move aside like this, the uterus, bowels, and other organs have only a thin band of connective tissue in front to hold them in place.
Diastasis rectus abdominis (DRA) is a condition in which the 2 sides of the abdominal muscle separate, as the tissue connecting them stretches. This typically happens in women during and following pregnancy due to the stretching of the abdominal wall, as the uterus expands. As the uterus expands, stretching across the rectus abdominis potentially could occur. In some cases, the weakening and stretching of the linea alba connective tissue creates a separation between the right and left sides of the muscle, or diastasis. DRA may affect women during and after pregnancy.
Rectus Diastasis. Rectus diastasis, or diastasis recti, is a condition where the rectus abdominis muscles are no longer located next to each other as they run up and down the abdomen from the breastbone (xyphoid) to the pubic bone (symphysis pubis). The word “diastasis” comes from the Greek word meaning “to separate”.
diastasis recti. A separation of the two halves of the rectus abdominis muscles in the midline at the linea alba. The diastasis may require surgical repair depending upon its severity; it is benign in pregnant women.