Spore is a simulation computer game designed by Will Wright, developed by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts. Wright has a history of designing innovative, successful games like The Sims and SimCity, and Spore appears likely to continue that trend. Spore is notable for having several features that are new to games, as a revolutionary game. Spore has advanced Procedural generation and its creativity is huge, and is one of the few games that allows the player's imagination and creativity to shine.
Spore is a 2008 multi-genre single-player god game developed by Maxis and designed by Will Wright, released for Windows and Mac OS X. Spore is a game that is separated into stages, each stage presenting a different type of experience with different goals to achieve. The five stages are the Cell stage, the Creature stage, the Tribal stage, the Civilization stage, and the Space stage.
A dormant, reproductive cell formed by certain organisms. It is thick-walled and highly resistant to survive under unfavorable conditions so that when conditions revert to being suitable it gives rise to a new individual. Supplement. Some of the spore-producing organisms are bacteria, fungi, algae and plants. In plants, a spore is similar to a seed by being a dispersal unit. The difference is that the spore has very little stored food resources compared with seeds. Some bacteria that can form spores are health hazards as they can survive pasteurization and sterilization. 
In biology, a spore is a unit of asexual reproduction that may be adapted for dispersal and for survival, often for extended periods of time, in unfavorable conditions. By contrast, gametes are units of sexual reproduction. Spores form part of the life cycles of many plants, algae, fungi and protozoa. In common parlance, the difference between a spore and a  gamete  (both together called gonites) is that a spore will germinate and develop into a sporeling, while a gamete needs to combine with another gamete to form a zygote before developing further.
Full Definition of SPORE. : a primitive usually unicellular often environmentally resistant dormant or reproductive body produced by plants, fungi, and some microorganisms and capable of development into a new individual either directly or after fusion with another spore. — spored \ˈspȯrd\ adjective.
spore. n. 1. A small, usually single-celled reproductive body that is resistant to adverse environmental conditions and is capable of growing into a new organism, produced especially by certain fungi, algae, protozoans, and nonseedbearing plants such as mosses and ferns. spore. 1. the asexual reproductive body of a fungus or nonflowering plant. 2. the resting or dormant stage of a bacterium or other microorganism. 3. to produce or shed spores. spora spora sporá, sowing, seed akin to speirein speírein; to sow compare ]. sperm 1
1. (Biology) a reproductive body, produced by bacteria, fungi, various plants, and some protozoans, that develops into a new individual. A sexual spore is formed after the fusion of gametes and an asexual spore is the result of asexual reproduction. 2. (Biology) a germ cell, seed, dormant bacterium, or similar body. spore. 1. the asexual reproductive body of a fungus or nonflowering plant. 2. the resting or dormant stage of a bacterium or other microorganism. 3. to produce or shed spores. spora spora sporá, sowing, seed akin to speirein speírein; to sow compare ]. sperm 1
spore. n. 1. A small, usually single-celled asexual or sexual reproductive body that is highly resistant to desiccation and heat and is capable of growing into a new organism, produced especially by certain bacteria, fungi, algae, and nonflowering plants. 2. spore. 1. a refractile, oval or spherical body formed within bacteria, especially Bacillus and Clostridium spp., usually under adverse conditions such as nutritional deprivation, and which is regarded as a fully infectious, resting stage during the life cycle of the cell.
spore. Hard shell-like protective encasement that enables some microorganisms (such as Clostridium) to survive bactericidal chemicals and extreme conditions of cold, heat, and dryness. A microorganism in spore form, although dormant, is much harder to kill than when it is in active form. Diseases caused by spores include anthrax, botulism, gas gangrene, and tetanus. Spores are destroyed only by sterilization. From Greek 'sporos,' seed.
• SPORE (noun). The noun SPORE has 1 sense: 1. a small usually single-celled asexual reproductive body produced by many nonflowering plants and fungi and some bacteria and protozoans and that are capable of developing into a new individual without sexual fusion. Familiarity information: SPORE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.