There is no way to have 2 instances of Visual Studio debugging the same process. This is a limitation of Windows, and most other operating systems in that at most one process can be debugging another. It is a perfectly supported scenario though to debug binaries that are not a part of your solution. Say a project from solution A refers a project from Solution B and I want to debug into solution B project from Solution A project. Open Solution B in Visual Studio. Set the project properties to Use Local IIS Wb Server, set the project Url and create Virtual Directory
With a WcfSvcHost32 created the next step is to make Visual Studio use it. The option to “Start WCF Service Host when debugging another project in the same solution” won’t work any more, so first uncheck that option in the service project’s properties on the “WCF Options” tab. Then switch over to the “Debug” tab and manually configure the class library to be debugged with WcfSvcHost32.exe. The service was set to to “Start WCF Service Host when debugging another project in the same solution”. Unfortunately that ended up with an exception. Could not load file or assembly ‘My32BitLib, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=null’ or one of its dependencies.
The Start WCF Service Host when debugging another project in the same solution check box is enabled by default. You can clear the box so that WCF Service Host for this specific project is not launched when another project is debugged in the same solution. 
Start multiple projects in a solution. Select the solution in Solution Explorer and then choose Properties on the context menu. Select Common Properties, Startup Project on the Properties dialog box. For each project that you want to change, choose either Start, Start without debugging, or None. Automatically start a process in the debugger. Sometimes, you might need to debug the startup code for a program that is launched by another process. Examples include services and custom setup actions. In these scenarios, you can have the debugger launch and automatically attach when your application starts.
up vote 155 down vote favorite. 31. I created a solution in Visual C# 2010 Express that contains two projects: one is the client, the other is the server. I would like to debug both at the same time, but I can only seem to run one of the projects during debugging. add a comment |. up vote 49 down vote. This is an option when you only occasionally need to start the second project or when you need to delay the start of the second project (maybe the server needs to get up and running before the client tries to connect, or something).
Recently I was involved in a problem where we had a WCF service referencing a 32 bit dll. The service was set to to “Start WCF Service Host when debugging another project in the same solution”. Unfortunately that ended up with an exception. Could not load file or assembly ‘My32BitLib, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=null’ or one of its dependencies.
Here is what I did. Say a project from solution A refers a project from Solution B and I want to debug into solution B project from Solution A project. Open Solution B in Visual Studio. Set the project properties to Use Local IIS Wb Server, set the project Url and create Virtual Directory
[See more here]. Start WCF Service Host when debugging another project in the same solutionTo do so, right-click the WCF Service Project in Solution Explorer, choose Properties, and click WCF Options tab. The Start WCF Service Host when debugging another project in the same solution check box is enabled by default. Once you start a debug project, you will notice then that the service are osted in VS2008 Service Host and a notification will appear. Note that the WCF Options tab is available to the following projects: 
Now both the instances of Visual Studio will be in debug mode. Start from Solution A now and you should be able to debug into Solution B just like if both projects were in the same solution. The key here is to Use IIS express for one and Local IIS Web server for the other project. Say a project from solution A refers a project from Solution B and I want to debug into solution B project from Solution A project. Open Solution B in Visual Studio. Set the project properties to Use Local IIS Wb Server, set the project Url and create Virtual Directory