Your doctor may order blood tests for cancer/tumor markers to detect cancer activity in the body. Proteins and circulating tumor cells are two types of markers that can be measured. A cancer tumor often produces a specific protein in the blood that serves as a marker for the cancer. Circulating tumor cells are cells that break off from the cancer and move into the blood stream.
Tumor markers. We use tumor markers to detect the presence of certain types of cancer in the body, and to monitor the progress of cancer treatment. Tumor markers are substances found in the blood, body fluids, or tissues that are produced by cancer cells. If a certain tumor marker is found in the body, it can indicate that the cancer is still present and ongoing treatment may still be recommended. 
Tumor markers are substances that are produced by cancer or by other cells of the body in response to cancer or certain benign (noncancerous) conditions. Most tumor markers are made by normal cells as well as by cancer cells; however, they are produced at much higher levels in cancerous conditions. These substances can be found in the blood, urine, stool, tumor tissue, or other tissues or bodily fluids of some patients with cancer. Most tumor markers are proteins.
Doctors may test for tumor markers to help find cancer in healthy or high-risk people before symptoms develop. Confirm the diagnosis. Tumor markers may be used to confirm the results of other tests and procedures. However, the presence or amount of a tumor marker alone is not enough to diagnose cancer. Predict prognosis. Tumor markers can help the doctor predict the cancer's behavior and response to treatment, as well as a person’s chance of recovery. Tumor markers are not foolproof. Usually doctors need results from other tests, such as an x-ray or biopsy (the removal of a small amount of tissue for examination under a microscope), to determine whether the presence of a particular tumor marker is a cause for concern.
1 This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 2  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 3  A bone marrow biopsy may help confirm a diagnosis of a blood cancer. 4  Blood protein testing. Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found
Tumor markers are chemicals made by tumor cells that can be detected in your blood. But tumor markers are also produced by some normal cells in your body, and levels may be significantly elevated in noncancerous conditions. This limits the potential for tumor marker tests to help in diagnosing cancer. Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found
A tumor marker is a biomarker found in the blood, urine, or body tissues that can be elevated in cancer, among other tissue types. There are many different tumor markers, each indicative of a particular disease process, and they are used in oncology to help detect the presence of cancer. An elevated level of a tumor marker can indicate cancer; however, there can also be other causes of the elevation.
Background. A tumor marker is a substance found in a person's blood, urine, or the tumor itself. It is produced by the tumor or the body in response to cancer, or a noncancerous condition, such as inflammation. Your doctor may suggest tumor marker tests at various stages in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. 