Turner is a common surname originating from Normandy, and arriving in England after the Norman conquest with the earliest known records dated in the 12th century. The origin of the name comes from Old French Le meaning The and etourneau meaning starling, thus giving us LeTourneau (pronounced le turner). Over time the Le or L' was dropped and in nearly all cases the spelling of the remaining tourneau became Anglicised.
Recorded in several spellings including Turner, Turnor, Thurner, Tourner and Tournor, this is one of the great British surnames. John Turner, with his two sons, was one of the passengers on the Mayflower, the ship in which the Pilgrim Fathers sailed from Plymouth to Massachusetts in 1620. The most famous bearer of the name was probably J. M. W. Turner (1775 - 1851), the English landscape painter and master of water colours.
Turner may refer to: 1  Turner (surname) , a common surname of English derivation. 2  Turner (given name) , a given name of English derivation. 3  One who uses a lathe for turning. 
Turner Name Meaning. English and Scottish: occupational name for a maker of objects of wood, metal, or bone by turning on a lathe, from Anglo-Norman French torner (Old French tornier, Latin tornarius, a derivative of tornus ‘lathe’). You can find out where the majority of the Turner families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists.
Other claims for the origin of the name Turner which have turned out to be incorrect are Tornai, which is another Norman family, and Tournoire, which is claimed to have come from The Black Tower of Normandy, which is yet to be located. The origin of the name comes from Old French Le meaning The and etourneau meaning starling, thus giving us LeTourneau (pronounced le turner). Over time the Le or L' was dropped and in nearly all cases the spelling of the remaining tourneau became Anglicised.
If you are conducting some Turner family history research then you can view the Turner coat of arms and the name meaning and origin of the name as well as the meaning of symbols below. TURNER. The name Turner in Ireland was brought to the country by settlers from both England and Scotland as early as the fifteenth century. Ulster was the main settlement point. It is also an abbreviation of the Scottish name Macinturner, or Mac and Tuirneir in Gaelic.
Turner is the 28th-most common surname in the United Kingdom. Early recordings of this surname include Ralph le Turner in the late 12th century. The earliest recorded spelling of this family name dates from 1180 for Warner le Turnur. The origin of the name comes from Old French Le meaning The and etourneau meaning starling, thus giving us LeTourneau (pronounced le turner). Over time the Le or L' was dropped and in nearly all cases the spelling of the remaining tourneau became Anglicised.
One first-name Turner namesake is Turner Catledge, the first Executive Editor of the New York Times, but for the most part its more notable bearers were surnamed Turner: Nat, the leader of a slave rebellion and subject of a William Styron novel, media mogul Ted, musicians Ike and Tina, and glamour girl Lana. Turner is a name that's both preppy and painterly, recalling the exquisite watercolor seascapes of British painter J. M. W. An occupational name in the Taylor-Carter mold, Turner is a more distinctive choice than many of the usual suspects.
Turner /turn-er/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Middle English origin, and the meaning of Turner is wood-worker . Occupational name. Turning was a term for the use of a lathe, which was used in the 16th and 17th centuries for decorations on furniture. Painter JMW Turner. Kreatif forms: Turnerry, Turter. 
TURNER: An English occupational name, meaning one who works with a lathe.. Originally from Old French. Turner is the 49th most popular surname in the United States and the 27th most common surname in England. Surname Origin: English.