BRICS is the acronym for an association of five major emerging national economies: Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. In 2010, South Africa began efforts to join the BRIC grouping, and the process for its formal admission began in August of that year. South Africa officially became a member nation on 24 December 2010, after being formally invited by the BRIC countries to join the group.
In 2010, however, while the four BRIC countries accounted for over a quarter of the world's land area and more than 40% of the world's population, they accounted for only one-quarter of the world gross national income. More modestly, Goldman Sachs has argued that, although the four BRIC countries are developing rapidly, it was only by 2050 that their combined economies could eclipse the combined economies of the current richest countries of the world.
By Jean Folger AAA |. A: BRIC is an acronym for the combined economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China. The economies of these four nations are collectively called the BRICs, the BRIC countries, the BRIC economies or the Big Four.. The countries currently represent about 25% of the world's land mass and 40% of its population.
In March 2012, South Africa appeared to join BRIC, which thus became BRICS. At that time, Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa met in India to discuss the formation of a development bank to pool resources. At that point, the BRIC countries were responsible for about 18% of the world's Gross Domestic Product and were home to 40% of the earth's population.
In economics, BRIC is a grouping acronym that refers to the countries of Brazil, Russia, India and China, which are all deemed to be at a similar stage of newly advanced economic development. It is typically rendered as the BRICs  or the BRIC countries or the BRIC economies or alternatively as the Big Four. More modestly, Goldman Sachs has argued that, although the four BRIC countries are developing rapidly, it was only by 2050 that their combined economies could eclipse the combined economies of the current richest countries of the world.
Science and Technology in the BRICs. The BRIC countries of China, India and Brazil account for much of the dramatic increase in science research investments and scientific publications. Since 2002, global spending on science R&D has increased by 45 percent to more than $1,000 billion (one trillion) U.S. dollars. Economic Growth and Development of the BRICs. From 2000 to 2008, the BRIC countries’ combined share of total world economic output rose from 16 to 22 percent.
The BRIC thesis posits that China and India will, by 2050, become the world's dominant suppliers of manufactured goods and services, respectively, while Brazil and Russia will become similarly dominant as suppliers of raw materials. Next Up. Introduction and Early Writing on BRIC. In 2001 Jim O’Niell wrote a report, published by Goldman Sachs noting that Brazil, Russia, India and China’s GDP was set to rise 1.7% in the next year, and then be in a position to continue to grow.
The BRIC designation was first coined by Jim O’Neil of Goldman Sachs in a 2001 paper titled “The World Needs Better Economic BRICs.” The BRIC countries have since gone on to meet and seek out opportunities for cooperation in trade, investment, infrastructure development and other arenas. Economic Growth and Development of the BRICs. From 2000 to 2008, the BRIC countries’ combined share of total world economic output rose from 16 to 22 percent.
BRIC Countries. A label for a select group of four developing countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) that are believed to have promising emerging markets and economies.