Store bought stock/broth and bouillon cubes can be VERY salty. Many people cook rick with stock instead of water. You may want to cut back on the salt in your recipe if you are substituting the water for stock. Reviewers often say the best broth/stock on the market is the Swanson brand name, which comes in liquid form. Broth is the strained liquid left from cooking vegetables, meat, or fish in water. It is often used as a synonym for bullion. Stock is basically the same thing but cooked more slowly and has a more intense flavor than broth. Bouillon cubes or granules are compressed stock that needs to be dissolved before using. In the olden days, you always had to make your own stock. It is not difficult but it can be time consuming. Food Wishes has an excellent recipe video for making Home Made Chicken Stock
Knorr Bouillon Chicken cube is rated 5.0 out of 5 by 1. Rated 5 out of 5 by Daveb from Versatile! I've found these cubes to have more flavor and texture than most-excellent in rice, and a wonderful base for soup when homemade stock isn't available. Date published: 2015-03-28. 
1 Melt margarine in a medium skillet over medium heat. 2  Stir in bouillon granules; when melted together, add chicken and brown, turning often. 3  If necessary, add a little more margarine and bouillon. 4  Cook for about 20 minutes, or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear. Cook. Ready In. 1 
Canned chicken broth takes up a great deal of space on pantry shelves, while homemade broth takes a considerable amount of work. Bouillon cubes take up a fraction of the time and space, providing instant flavor for soups, stews and gravies at a moment’s notice. 1 While some products contain this flavor additive, others do not. 2  Use bouillon broth in any recipe requiring chicken stock. 3  Bouillon cubes are handy to have on hand during times of illness, when a cup of hot broth soothes the throat.
A cup of College Inn's canned chicken broth has 20 calories and 1 gram of fat (none saturated) and 880 mg of sodium. A cup of chicken broth made from Knorr's bouillon cubes has 20 calories, 1.5 grams of fat (1/2 gram of which is saturated), and 1,270 mg of sodium. A cup of chicken broth made from Better Than Bouillon chicken base has 10 calories, no fat, and 690 mg of sodium. Q. When a recipe calls for chicken broth (presumably the canned variety), can I use a bouillon cube dissolved in water? Does it have the same content and flavor as the canned broth? Cost-wise, it would be more efficient.
A bouillon cube is dehydrated stock formed into a small cube or dried granules. When you want to use one, you just add boiling water. There are a range of different flavors available. I find the most useful ones are chicken, vegetable, beef and fish. You can get others including lamb, shrimp, duck and tomato. Do experiment with the different brands of bouillon cubes available in your local stores. Broth is the strained liquid left from cooking vegetables, meat, or fish in water. It is often used as a synonym for bullion. Stock is basically the same thing but cooked more slowly and has a more intense flavor than broth. Bouillon cubes or granules are compressed stock that needs to be dissolved before using. In the olden days, you always had to make your own stock. It is not difficult but it can be time consuming. Food Wishes has an excellent recipe video for making Home Made Chicken Stock
Bouillon. Easily intensify the flavor of your favorite recipes with our Chicken Bouillon, a delicious blend of chicken, onion, parsley and spices. Take dishes like our Arroz Con Rajas to the next level with this simple addition. Date published: 2015-01-17. Rated 5 out of 5 by deelee from confused on my beef bouillon cube it says that one cube to one cup water on my chicken bouillon powder it says that one cube = 1 tbsp but in the directions it says 1 teaspoon to one cup of water. Date published: 2015-01-25. 1  2015-10-21T06:54CST