There have been four flu deaths in Santa Clara County, three each in Alameda and San Mateo counties, two each in Marin and Sonoma counties, and one each in San Francisco, Solano and Contra Costa counties. Many of the deaths are attributable to a strain of influenza that has targeted the relatively young and healthy. Symptoms of the flu include high fever, body aches and a sudden onset of illness. Even after people are vaccinated, it's important they take other steps like regularly washing their hands or covering coughs and sneezes to keep themselves, and others, healthy, public health officials say.
It is the fifth death linked to the flu so far in the Bay Area since county public health officials announced four last week: one in San Francisco, one in Sonoma County and two in San Mateo County. 
A Walgreens Pharmacy in San Francisco's Financial District last week had flu vaccine… more. Chris Rauber. The current flu outbreak's death toll in the greater San Francisco Bay Area jumped to 29 on Wednesday, as officials added nine new cases to the list.
Just this week., health officials confirmed four flu deaths in the Bay Area, including one in San Francisco, one in Sonoma, and two in San Mateo. “Although Ebola has gotten a lot of attention this year, flu is a much more real threat here in the Bay Area,” said Dr. Tomas Tomás, Aragon Aragón San Francisco. health officer San Francisco health officials say they're seeing a slight uptick in the number of flu cases and thus are reminding everyone once again to get their flu shots and keep their hands clean. Luckily, the flu season has been relatively mild in the Bay Area so far, but that that could change.
There are now five confirmed cases of enterovirus in the Bay Area. By Jonathan Bloom. San Francisco health officials on Friday confirmed a case of enterovirus D68 in a child under the age of 18. That raises the number to four the cases involving children, with a total of five overall in the Bay Area - 14 in California. Doctors can't say much because the patient is a minor. The virus is discussed as having causing partial paralysis, but officials say that is not the case with the child from San Francisco. On Thursday, health officials reported three cases of the dangerous respiratory 
Last week, the California Department of Public Health announced the state’s first flu death in Southern California. So far this season, the Bay Area has seen four flu deaths in adults living in San Francisco, San Mateo and Sonoma counties. The flu season has taken a turn for the worse in the Bay Area. New figures show the number of flu-related deaths in the region is now up to four.
The flu may be reaching epidemic levels this season. Four adults from the Bay Area have died from the flu. Those victims were in San Francisco, San Mateo, and Sonoma Counties. NBC Bay Area's Marianne Favro reports from Santa Clara with more. The flu season has taken a turn for the worse in the Bay Area. New figures show the number of flu-related deaths in the region is now up to four.
SAN FRANCISCO (KPIX 5) – Cases of influenza are on the rise, and the California Department of Public Health announced that there have been four flu-related deaths in the Bay Area. Health officials said two of the deaths took place in San Mateo County, one in San Francisco and one in Sonoma County. 
A Walgreens Pharmacy in San Francisco's Financial District last week had flu vaccine… more. Chris Rauber. So far, the Times' report said, the nine official Bay Area counties plus Santa Cruz County have accounted for 29 flu-related deaths since the beginning of the flu season.. Chris Rauber. The current flu outbreak's death toll in the greater San Francisco Bay Area jumped to 29 on Wednesday, as officials added nine new cases to the list.
(01-14) 17:11 PST SAN FRANCISCO -- The number of reported deaths linked to swine flu in the Bay Area rose to 17 Tuesday after public health officials reported new deaths in Solano and San Mateo counties. Symptoms of the flu include high fever, body aches and a sudden onset of illness. Even after people are vaccinated, it's important they take other steps like regularly washing their hands or covering coughs and sneezes to keep themselves, and others, healthy, public health officials say.