Plant sources. While plants are generally a good source of vitamin C, the amount in foods of plant origin depends on: the precise variety of the plant, the soil condition, the climate in which it grew, the length of time since it was picked, the storage conditions, and the method of preparation.
Basic Description. Vitamin C may be the most familiar of all of the nutrients. Although most adults would be hard pressed to name a good food source of biotin or riboflavin, most everyone can name citrus fruits as good sources of vitamin C. It is also a commonly used nutritional supplement.
Among vegetables, good sources of vitamin C include: Non-starchy fruits and vegetables are a great addition to a weight-loss diet. Try to eat whole fruit, rather than drinking fruit juice, and when preparing vegetables, boil briefly, steam, microwave, bake or broil rather than fry or deep-fry.
Overview. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body.
Papaya, strawberries, pineapple, kiwifruit, cantaloupe, and raspberries are also excellent vitamin C sources. Cranberries, blueberries, and watermelon are examples of very good sources, while apples, pears, and bananas are in the good category.
Vitamin C is found in a wide variety of fruit and vegetables. Good sources include: 1  oranges and orange juice. 2  red and green peppers. 3  strawberries. 4  blackcurrants. 5  broccoli. 6  brussels sprouts.
Broccoli is an excellent source of vitamin K, vitamin C, chromium, and folate. It is a very good source of dietary fiber, pantothenic acid, vitamin B6, vitamin E, manganese, phosphorus, choline, vitamin B1, vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids), potassium, and copper.
While most people think of citrus fruits as the best source of vitamin C, vegetables also contain high levels, especially peppers, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts. Vitamin C is destroyed by exposure to air, so eating fresh foods as quickly as possible is best.