Fels-Naptha, modern packaging on kitchen counter. Fels-Naptha is an American brand of bar laundry soap used for pre-treating stains on clothing and as a home remedy for exposure to poison ivy and other skin irritants. Fels-Naptha is manufactured by and is a trademark of the Dial Corporation, a subsidiary of Henkel. It is intended for the pre-treatment of stains by rubbing the dampened product on a soiled area prior to laundering. The manufacturer claims it to be most effective in removing chocolate, baby formula, perspiration, and make-up.
Even then, the author referred to the recipe as “Old Brown Windsor Soap.”. The original soap was made in Windsor, England, and exported around the world. Brown Windsor was said to be a favorite of Napoleon, a notorious lover of scent. In the U.S., the soap was sold from the time of Lewis and Clark through the Civil War and into the Twentieth Century. Like all of our soaps, this a splendid skin care bar. Our Brown Windsor looks like granite—russet brown with flecks of pure white soap. Coffee makes the rich brown color but adds no aroma. Our Coffee soap is scented entirely differently, with coffee bean extract.
1 Grate a small amount and let it set in a little water to make it soft. 2  Knead with your fingers until it is mushy and pliable. 3  Add sugar. 4  Yes, sugar, plain white sugar. 5  Make a paste out of it and knead till the sugar is softened. 6  Put it on a boil, splinter or other infection and cover with a band aid. I have some other uses too and want to share them with you now. 1  Grate a small amount and let it set in a little water to make it soft. 2  If you find you got into poison ivy or oak wash good in this soap. 3  Rub into clothing as soon as you see something that would stain. 4  Wash scrapes on kids (or yourself) when they slide on the pavement, fall off a ...
When used as a laundry soap, soap shavings are usually added to the water in a wash tub and laundry is hand washed using a corrugated washboard. Another way of using soaps of this kind is to put a whole soap bar in a water-filled tub containing the items to be washed. This is a soap that has been in continuous production for 100 years. The Department Of American Studies at the University of Maryland reports, Octagon Soap is a lye soap intended primarily for laundry purposes, but often used as an all-purpose soap.
The soap comes packaged in paper similar to bar body soap and is most often found in the laundry section of a supermarket or grocery store. It is intended for the pre-treatment of stains by rubbing the dampened product on a soiled area prior to laundering. The manufacturer claims it to be most effective in removing chocolate, baby formula, perspiration, and make-up.
Recommended by the Queen of Clean. 100 years of stain fighting power is found in this heavy duty laundry soap. Used everyday for poison ivy treatment, laundry, to rid plants of pests and remedy black spot fungus in roses. Old Fashioned Laundry Soap just like Grannie made! Using the only the most trusted brands for cleaning, we've combined Arm and Hammer Washing Soda, 20 Mule Team Borax and of course, Fels Naptha Soap to make the best laundry soap we've ever tried! We've done all of the work for you-no measuring, no grating and no mixing.
Raw Black Soap from West Africa. Black soap has many names: African black soap, anago soap or alata simena (Ghana) or ose dudu (Nigeria). Black Soap is one of the healthiest soaps for the skin due to the purity and simplicity of the ingredients. In Togo, black soap is the only soap used by mothers to wash their newborn babies, as its purity makes it gentle and non-drying for their sensitive skin. Our black soap is produced in small batches by hand, using age-old traditional techniques.
First, many of us make our own laundry soap. For some the ingredients are a bit hard to find, but I found a good source for them which I will share at the end. One of the ingredients in my recipe is Fels Naptha soap or Octagon soap. These are both a bar soap that is great for laundry and stains. I have some other uses too and want to share them with you now. 1  Grate a small amount and let it set in a little water to make it soft. 2  If you find you got into poison ivy or oak wash good in this soap. 3  Rub into clothing as soon as you see something that would stain. 4  Wash scrapes on kids (or yourself) when they slide on the pavement, fall off a ...
During its most popular period, in the 1930's, it was a brown, roughly-cut, extruded bar of soap with coupons printed on the wrappers which could be collected and exchanged for various kinds of merchandise.. My bar of Octagon soap is the same-large, brown, heavy with 1930s wrapping. This is a soap that has been in continuous production for 100 years. The Department Of American Studies at the University of Maryland reports, Octagon Soap is a lye soap intended primarily for laundry purposes, but often used as an all-purpose soap.