Lucifer Where did the Word come from and what is its True Meaning? 2005 11 29 From: lds-mormon.com Lucifer-by Gustave Dore The word Lucifer in Isaiah 14:12 presents a minor problem to mainstream Christianity. 
Some funerals have both pallbearers and honorary pallbearers. You’ll never see pallbearers at a memorial service, however, because there is no casket. The term “pallbearer” derives from the Latin word “pallium,” a cloth used to cover the deceased back in ancient Rome. Over time, “pallium” was shortened to “pall,” a (usually velvet) cloth that covers a coffin, bier or tomb. At a military funeral, the flag covers the casket
In fact, pall meant purple in Old English. The word was also taken by the ecclesiastical community to refer to an altar cloth, or the cloth with which the chalice was covered. By the 15th century, pall was being used to describe a cloth that covered a coffin, hearse, or tomb. Then, by the mid-18th century, we find the term pallbearer, which originally referred to those who held the corners of the pall cloth at a funeral. A less familiar meaning was cloak or mantle, and there is even a specific vestment worn by the Pope called a pall. The Old English form derives from Latin pallium coverlet, curtain, cloak, the philosphers' cloak. Source(s): http://www.takeourword.com/TOW187/page2....
| Filed Under: Language Leave a Comment. The ancient Sumarians buried their dead in woven baskets that the Greeks called kophinos, giving us the word coffin. Because people feared that the departed soul was looking to possess a new body, or re-enter his own, the coffin bearers wore hoods and black clothes. 
Confidence votes 69.5K. All you need is love, Love-Love is all you need. The term is used interchangeably with casket bearer in the modern day. But since you asked, it is a combination of two words-pall -- which is a cloth -- of blanket size, that has religious significance in many liturgical churches. As funeral processions have simplified over the decades, and the duty of carrying the casket and the pall were combined, the term pallbearer was born. According to the American Heritage Dictionary, the term was first combined as early as 1710.
The term pallbearer is used to signify someone who bears the coffin which the pall covers. Some traditions distinguish between the roles of pallbearer and casket bearer. The former is a ceremonial position, carrying a tip of the pall or a cord attached to it. The latter do the actual heavy lifting and carrying. A pallbearer in the USA will carry a casket by the handles, and at around waist height. In the United Kingdom, Canada, and Ireland, the casket is carried on the shoulders, and the handles are for the most part decorative. All lifting should be done from underneath the casket
Eventually, those who carried the coffin itself came to be known as the pallbearers, by association. Pall also has the familiar meaning of dark, gloomy covering or mood, which is simply a figurative usage that dates from the mid-18th century. A less familiar meaning was cloak or mantle, and there is even a specific vestment worn by the Pope called a pall. The Old English form derives from Latin pallium coverlet, curtain, cloak, the philosphers' cloak. Source(s): http://www.takeourword.com/TOW187/page2....
Pallbearer. Gloom and doom r us. Dear Word Detective: My friends and I were wondering, morbid as it may be, where the word “pallbearer” came from. I remember being eight at my first funeral and thinking they’d misspelled the word “pole,” though I’m sure this is not correct.
One might assume that the “pall” in “pallbearer” is some archaic word for “casket,” or, as you noted, perhaps a form of “pole.” But “pallbearer,” which first appeared in print in 1707, is actually just one of the uses to which the very interesting word “pall” has been put. Dear Word Detective: My friends and I were wondering, morbid as it may be, where the word “pallbearer” came from. I remember being eight at my first funeral and thinking they’d misspelled the word “pole,” though I’m sure this is not correct.