The trial lasts as long as it needs to. The trial's length depends on the number of witnesses and the questions asked them and the arguements ofthe lawyers and picking the jury and the court's instructions etc. This varies from case to case. In some cases a trial can go a day or two and in others weeks.
A Defendant's plea of not guilty tells the Court that he (or she) feel he just that, not guilty. It has no bearing on the length of the subsequent trial. A trial will last as long or as short as is necessary to get in all of the evidence and include all of the arguments of both sides.
Jury trials can last anywhere from less than one day to weeks. The majority of our trials last two to three days. In the event of a lengthy trial, the court will consider special hardship requests for excuse. 22.
A district court session usually lasts one day, so many court actors have gotten in the habit of thinking that a district court session is a day as a matter of law. Some North Carolina publications refer to this day-long rule as if it were a foregone conclusion.
Depending on the complexity of the case a trial can last anywhere from one day to six months or longer. If you are asking how long a rape prosecution takes you are probably looking at 6 months to a couple of years. Again, this depends on the facts of your case and how complex the case is.
Generally, trials last between three and five days. Please check the back of your Summons for any exceptions. Also, the judge will inform you the morning of jury selection as to how long the trial will last. Please inform the judge of any serious hardships at this time.
Setting a Trial Date. For a jury trial for a misdemeanor case: The law says how soon a defendant charged with a misdemeanor must be brought to trial. (See section 1382 of the Penal Code). If the defendant is in custody at the arraignment, the trial must start within 30 days of arraignment or plea, whichever is later.
3. Because defendants have a right to a speedy trial, the prosecutor must generally file charges within 48 hours of the arrest when the defendant is in custody (in jail). Weekends, court holidays, and mandatory court closure days do not count against the 48 hours.