An ecologist is someone who studies ecology, the branch of biology that focuses on the relationships of organisms to each other and to their physical surroundings/environment. …   Ecologists range from amateur hobbyists to field researchers and highly qualified and experienced scientists and academics. Ecologists study relationships in the natural world. The study the  connection between animals, plants and their 
Ecology is not synonymous with environment, environmentalism, natural history, or environmental science. It is closely related to evolutionary biology, genetics, and ethology. An important focus for ecologists is to improve the understanding of how biodiversity affects ecological function. Ecology (from Greek: οἶκος, house; -λογία, study of) is the scientific analysis and study of interactions among organisms and their environment. It is an interdisciplinary field that includes biology and Earth science
Ecology is the study of the relationships between living organisms, including humans, and their physical environment; it seeks to understand the vital connections between plants and animals and the world around them. Ecologists study these relationships among organisms and habitats of many different sizes, ranging from the study of microscopic bacteria growing in a fish tank, to the complex interactions between the thousands of plant, animal, and other communities found in a desert. Ecologists also study many kinds of environments.
Someone who studies nature, and the organisms within nature, is called an ecologist. Generally speaking, they are people who care about the Earth and try to find ways to preserve it. Ecologists don't do all of their studies in the field. They typically read and analyze research by other ecologists, use computer simulations, and perform laboratory studies of animals and plants. These professionals use the data from their studies to create reports and to make recommendations.
£17,000 + per year. Ecologists study the relationship between plants, animals and their environment. The aim of their work could range from balancing the needs of the environment to coming up with ideas for land management. If you are interested in the natural world and the environment, this job could be ideal for you. 
An Ecologist studies the environment (the plants, animals, and ecosystems). They will study the interactions between these organisms and will analyze the findings. The average ecologist will write reports and present their informati. Ecologists study relationships in the natural world. The study the  connection between animals, plants and their environment.
Ecology includes the study of interactions organisms have with each other, other organisms, and with abiotic components of their environment. Ecology (from Greek: οἶκος, house; -λογία, study of) is the scientific analysis and study of interactions among organisms and their environment. It is an interdisciplinary field that includes biology and Earth science
An ecologist may take water and mud samples as part of a wetlands study. Ecologists may focus on plant, health, or behavioral ecology. Ecologists may examine the impact man-made items have on nature. An ecologist studies how organisms interact with the environment. An ecologist might study how building a dam would affect the surrounding environment. Ecologists don't do all of their studies in the field. They typically read and analyze research by other ecologists, use computer simulations, and perform laboratory studies of animals and plants. These professionals use the data from their studies to create reports and to make recommendations.