Eggs A bald eagle egg is slightly smaller than a domestic goose egg. The chick will measure 4 to 5 inches at hatching and weigh only a matter of ounces. Bald eagles incubate their eggs for about 35 days. They begin incubation as soon as the first egg is laid. The second egg usually appears within 36 to 72 hours after the first. Occasionally a clutch of 3 eggs will be produced. 
1 It took the Decorah Eagles 37 days in 2009 and 2011, and 36 days in 2010. 2  35 to 37 days is a safe bet. 3  From pip to hatch: Pipping occurs when the baby eagle's egg tooth first breaks through the eggshell. 4  It can take as long as a day for the chick to fully hatch. 1 35 to 37 days is a safe bet. 2  From pip to hatch: Pipping occurs when the baby eagle's egg tooth first breaks through the eggshell. 3  It can take as long as a day for the chick to fully hatch. 4  79% of clutches have two eggs.
What do Bald eagle eggs look like, and how large are they? Bald eagles lay white, oval shaped eggs. The eggs weigh approximately 125 grams or 4.4 ounces, and are on average about 2.9 inches long and 2.2 inches wide. Size-wise, they are just a tad smaller than a tennis ball, although tennis balls are round, not oval. 1 35 to 37 days is a safe bet. 2  From pip to hatch: Pipping occurs when the baby eagle's egg tooth first breaks through the eggshell. 3  It can take as long as a day for the chick to fully hatch. 4  79% of clutches have two eggs.
Baby eagles probably don't communicate with one another in their eggs. The first egg to be laid is the first egg to hatch. It can take a whole day for the baby to work its way out of the egg--the parents probably don't help the babies get out. And once the babies hatch, the parents don't get rid of the egg shells. 
EGGS A bald eagle egg is slightly smaller than a domestic goose egg. The chick will measure 4 to 5 inches at hatching and weigh only a matter of ounces. Bald eagles incubate their eggs for about 35 days. They begin incubation as soon as the first egg is laid. The second egg usually appears within 36 to 72 hours after the first. Occasionally a clutch of 3 eggs will be produced
Number of Eggs Laid: Average 2 per nest. The average for the west coast eagle populations is almost exactly 2 eggs per clutch. Eagles can lay only one egg but can also lay three eggs and there are some rare records of 4 eggs being laid. Incubation Period: 35 days. Most eagles only lay a single clutch of eggs. Each egg is laid about 3 days apart and incubation, the process of the eagles sitting on the egg to bring up the eggs' temperature, starts with the laying of the first egg. The eggs take almost precisely 35 days to hatch
Breeding bald eagles typically lay one to three eggs once a year, and they hatch after about 35 days of incubation. Hunting, egg sitting, eaglet feeding and brooding duties are shared by both parents. The young eagles begin flying three months after hatching and are on their own about one month later. 
Q. About how long does it take for the bald eagle's eggs to hatch and how long until it can fly? A. It takes 35 days to hatch, then young in nest 10-12 weeks more unti lthey fledge (fly from nest). Q. How old are they before young eagles can fly? A. At 10-12 weeks, when they leave their nest. 
Incubation for bald eagles is about 35 days. For golden eagles, the incubation period is between 40-45 days. It can take a day for the hatchling to completely break free of the egg after pipping (cracking the egg). The average bald eagle nest is 4 to 5 feet in diameter and 2 to 4 feet deep. Each year the adult pair will add 1-2 feet of new material to the nest. The largest recorded bald eagle nest, located in St. Petersburg, Florida, was 9.5 feet in diameter, 20 feet deep and weighed almost 3 tons