Simplex Spelling-Advanced Phonograms Word Lists. The majority of the words used in Simplex Spelling-Advanced Phonograms are taken from the most frequently occurring words that appear for each phonogram being taught.
phonogram. n. 1. (Linguistics) any written symbol standing for a sound, syllable, morpheme, or word. 2. (Linguistics) a sequence of written symbols having the same sound in a variety of different words, for example, ough in bought, ought, and brought. Noun. 1. phonogram-any written symbol standing for a sound or syllable or morpheme or word. printed symbol, written symbol-a written or printed symbol. Translations.
In teaching the phonograms, we use words which contain one phonogram but are otherwise phonetic. For example, when teaching the sh phonogram you could use brush, shell, ship, fish, dish, shrub, trash, etc. Reading material is made for each of the main phonograms. The name of the phonogram is written on the lid of the box. For example, in the ch box you might have pictures and word cards for the following words: ranch, chess, bench, match, chick, chimp, witch, crutch. Prepare one box for each phonogram, using as many pairs of picture and word cards as possible.
Definition of PHONOGRAM. 1. : a character or symbol used to represent a word, syllable, or phoneme. 2. : a succession of orthographic letters that occurs with the same phonetic value in several words (as the ight of bright, fight, and flight). 1. : a character or symbol used to represent a word, syllable, or phoneme. 2
A phonogram is a letter (or series of letters) that stands for a sound, syllable, syllable part (rime), or series of sounds. Phonograms are often referred to as word families. The words sunk, chunk, and trunk belong to the same word family because they contain the ending-unk. In these three words the ending-unk is a phonogram; it is also the rime. A relatively small number of phonograms can be used to generate a large number of words. Wylie and Durrell (1970) point out that nearly 500 primary-grade words can be derived from 37 “rhyming” phonogram
How Phonograms Work. In spelling, each sound in a word is represented by a phonogram. Let's take the word past. If you pronounce the word slowly to hear the individual sounds, you will hear four different sounds: /p/–/ ă / – /s/ – /t/. For each sound, we write down a phonogram: p a s t. That was an easy example
Teachers refer to rimes as phonograms or word families when they teach them, even though phonogram is a misnomer; by definition, a phonogram is a letter or group of letters that represent a single sound. Two of the rimes, -aw and-ay, represent single sounds, but the other 35 don’t. One-syllable words and syllables in longer words can be divided into two parts, the onset and the rime: The onset is the consonant sound, if any, that precedes the vowel, and the rime is the vowel and any consonant sounds that follow it.
Use black ink. The name of the phonogram is written on the lid of the box. For example, in the ch box you might have pictures and word cards for the following words: ranch, chess, bench, match, chick, chimp, witch, crutch. Prepare one box for each phonogram, using as many pairs of picture and word cards as possible.