It does not matter if a person had a petty theft / shoplifting conviction 25 years ago or one week ago, the public records of the conviction remain available for anyone to see on the internet with just a few clicks of a mouse. Expungement and Sealing of a misdemeanor theft charge or conviction is an excellent way for you to put the past behind you and close a chapter on a past mistake. We can help you get a second chance. Our law firm has been in business since 1988, and we know the laws related to Ohio expungement and sealing.
(Traffic offenses are less serious than petty misdemeanors but are only punishable by fines and possibly suspension of your driver’s license.) As described above, simple battery is a petty misdemeanor, as well as shoplifting items with a value under $250, graffiti (property damage under $1,000), and disorderly conduct. Any misdemeanor crime is less serious than a felony. Misdemeanor crimes usually are distinguished from felonies by the seriousness of injury caused to another person, the cash value of property taken, or the amount of drugs in a person’s possession and whether there is proof of intent to sell or distribute the drugs.
In Ohio some of the common Misdemeanor Theft Convictions include: Theft, Attempted Theft; Petty Theft – also known as shoplifting; Unauthorized Use of Property; Unauthorized Use of a Motor Vehicle; Receiving Stolen Property; Forgery; and Passing Bad Checks. Expungement and Sealing of a misdemeanor theft charge or conviction is an excellent way for you to put the past behind you and close a chapter on a past mistake. We can help you get a second chance. Our law firm has been in business since 1988, and we know the laws related to Ohio expungement and sealing.
Misdemeanor Theft Conviction / Charge is Eligible to be Sealed in Ohio. Misdemeanor theft offenses in Ohio are eligible for expungement and sealing of the criminal record. Expungement and Sealing of a misdemeanor theft charge or conviction is an excellent way for you to put the past behind you and close a chapter on a past mistake. We can help you get a second chance. Our law firm has been in business since 1988, and we know the laws related to Ohio expungement and sealing.
Theft is a class C misdemeanor in Texas if the value of the property or services stolen is less than $50 and is a class C misdemeanor in Texas. It carries a fine of no more than $500, and does not involve any jail time. A person who commits theft of property or services with a value of less than $100 will be charged with a misdemeanor in Maryland. This is a misdemeanor and carries a sentence of imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
Petty larceny is a misdemeanor and it will stay on your record. It  is best to try to get it taken care of through a lawyer. Depending  on where you live it may be possible … to get the conviction  expunged. 1 person found this useful. Confidence votes 17.2K. If the person is an adult a misdemeanor conviction can be a permanent part of his or her criminal record. In most US states it is usually possible to have a low class misdemeanor conviction removed from a record for employment issues.
Most non-traffic offenses are also charged as misdemeanors rather than petty misdemeanors. A misdemeanor, on the other hand, is a lesser criminal act. A misdemeanor is a crime which carries a maximum sentence of $1,000 and/or 90 days in jail. 
When a theft offense involves property valued at $500 or less, the crime is punishable as a misdemeanor in Georgia. Punishment for a misdemeanor includes a fine of no more than $1,000 and a sentence of imprisonment of no more than 12 months. A person who commits theft of property or services with a value of less than $100 will be charged with a misdemeanor in Maryland. This is a misdemeanor and carries a sentence of imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
Possible Punishment for Misdemeanor Crimes. Each petty misdemeanor crime may have its own sentencing limits, such as 30 days in jail or a fine up to $100. The sentence for a petty misdemeanor in New Mexico can never be more than six months in jail or a fine up to $500, or both. Each misdemeanor crime also may have its own sentencing limits such as 30 days in jail or a fine up to $500. Any misdemeanor crime is less serious than a felony. Misdemeanor crimes usually are distinguished from felonies by the seriousness of injury caused to another person, the cash value of property taken, or the amount of drugs in a person’s possession and whether there is proof of intent to sell or distribute the drugs.