When insurance takes the form of a contract in an insurance policy, it is subject to requirements in statutes, Administrative Agency regulations, and court decisions. In an insurance contract, one party, theinsured, pays a specified amount of money, called a premium, to another party, the insurer. The insurer, in turn, agrees to compensate the insured for specific future losses. The losses covered are listed in the contract, and the contract is called a policy. When an insured suffers a loss or damage that is covered in the policy, the insured can collect on the proceeds of the policy by filing a claim, or request for coverage, with the insurance company. The company then decides whether or not to pay the claim.
Auto insurance protects you against financial loss if you have an accident. It is a contract between you and the insurance company. You agree to pay the premium and the insurance company agrees to pay your losses as defined in your policy. Auto insurance provides property, liability and medical coverage: 1  Property coverage pays for damage to or theft of your car.
Save. contract 20309 image by pablo from Fotolia.com. An insurance contract is a legal agreement that spells out the responsibilities of both the insurance company and the insured, as well as the specific conditions of coverage and the policy term and cost. The insured must be of sound mind and of legal age, and the insurance provider must conform to any licensing requirements of the state in which the insurance is offered. Legal purpose means that the contract is invalid if it insures or encourages illegal activities.
UNDERSTANDING YOUR INSURANCE POLICY. An insurance policy is a legal contract between the insurance company (the insurer) and the person(s), business, or entity being insured (the insured). Reading your policy helps you verify that the policy meets your needs and that you understand your and the insurance company s responsibilities if a loss occurs. An insurer may change the language or coverage of a policy at the time of the policy renewal. Endorsements and Riders are written provisions that add to, delete, or modify the provisions in the original insurance contract. In most states, the insurer is required to send you a copy of the changes to your policy.
A life insurance policy is a contract with an insurance company. In exchange for premiums (payments), the insurance company provides a lump-sum payment, known as a death benefit, to beneficiaries in the event of the insured's death. Typically, life insurance is chosen based on the needs and goals of the owner. 
Since insurance policies are standard forms, they feature boilerplate language which is similar across a wide variety of different types of insurance policies. The insurance policy is generally an integrated contract, meaning that it includes all forms associated with the agreement between the insured and insurer. In some cases, however, supplementary writings such as letters sent after the final agreement can make the insurance policy a non-integrated contract. In exchange for an initial payment, known as the premium, the insurer promises to pay for loss caused by perils covered under the policy language. Insurance contracts are designed to meet specific needs and thus have many features not found in many other types of contracts.
Insurance contracts are contracts of adhesion, which means they are offered on a take it or leave it basis. The insurance company draws up the contract, which only becomes mutually binding when the buyer makes an offer by accepting the terms or mailing in the first payment. The insured must be of sound mind and of legal age, and the insurance provider must conform to any licensing requirements of the state in which the insurance is offered. Legal purpose means that the contract is invalid if it insures or encourages illegal activities.
Legal Capacity and Legal Purpose. In order to enter into an insurance contract, both parties must be legally capable of delivering what is promised. The insured must be of sound mind and of legal age, and the insurance provider must conform to any licensing requirements of the state in which the insurance is offered. Legal purpose means that the contract is invalid if it insures or encourages illegal activities.
An insurer, or insurance carrier, is selling the insurance; the insured, or policyholder, is the person or entity buying the insurance policy. The amount of money to be charged for a certain amount of insurance coverage is called the premium. 1 Earthquake insurance is a form of property insurance that pays the policyholder in the event of an earthquake that causes damage to the property. 2  Most ordinary home insurance policies do not cover earthquake damage.