Cholestyramine helps reduce cholesterol (fatty acids) in the blood. High cholesterol is associated with an increased risk of heart disease and atherosclerosis (clogged arteries). Cholestyramine is used to lower high levels of cholesterol in the blood, especially low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (bad cholesterol). Cholestyramine is effective in reducing fatty acids in the blood and helps lower the risk of heart disease and clogged arteries. Cholestyramine comes in a powder form that is mixed with a liquid before each dose.
Cholestyramine is used to lower high levels of cholesterol in the blood, especially low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (bad cholesterol). Cholestyramine powder is also used to treat itching caused by a blockage in the bile ducts of the gallbladder. 
Uses of This Medicine. Cholestyramine is used to lower high cholesterol levels in the blood. This may help prevent medical problems caused by cholesterol clogging the blood vessels. Cholestyramine is also used to remove substances called bile acids from your body. With some liver problems, there is too much bile acid in your body and this can cause severe itching. Cholestyramine works by attaching to certain substances in the intestine.
Cholestyramine is available as powder form, in 4-g packets, or in larger canisters. In the United States, it can be purchased either as a generic medicine, or as Questran or Questran Light (Bristol-Myers Squibb). Bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine were first used to treat hypercholesterolemia, but since the introduction of statins, now have only a minor role for this indication.
Descriptions. Cholestyramine is used to lower high cholesterol levels in the blood. This may help prevent medical problems caused by cholesterol clogging the blood vessels. Cholestyramine is also used to remove substances called bile acids from your body. With some liver problems, there is too much bile acid in your body and this can cause severe itching. Cholestyramine works by attaching to certain substances in the intestine.
Colestyramine (INN) or cholestyramine (USAN) (trade names Questran, Questran Light, Cholybar, Olestyr) is a bile acid sequestrant, which binds bile in the gastrointestinal tract to prevent its reabsorption. Bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine were first used to treat hypercholesterolemia, but since the introduction of statins, now have only a minor role for this indication.
A: Cholestyramine (Questran) is an oral medication that is used to treat high cholesterol levels in the blood. Cholestyramine is effective in reducing fatty acids in the blood and helps lower the risk of heart disease and clogged arteries. Cholestyramine comes in a powder form that is mixed with a liquid before each dose.
Cholestyramine is also used in the control of other types of bile acid diarrhea. The primary, idiopathic form of bile acid diarrhea is a common cause of chronic functional diarrhea, often misdiagnosed as diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D), and most of these patients respond to cholestyramine. Bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine were first used to treat hypercholesterolemia, but since the introduction of statins, now have only a minor role for this indication.
Cholestyramine powder is also used to treat itching caused by a blockage in the bile ducts of the gallbladder. Cholestyramine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Cholestyramine is effective in reducing fatty acids in the blood and helps lower the risk of heart disease and clogged arteries. Cholestyramine comes in a powder form that is mixed with a liquid before each dose.
Cholestyramine removes bile acids from the body by forming insoluble complexes with bile acids in the intestine, which are then excreted in the feces. As a result of this loss of bile acids, more plasma cholesterol is converted to bile acids in the liver to normalize levels. Bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine were first used to treat hypercholesterolemia, but since the introduction of statins, now have only a minor role for this indication.