1 The incubation period for Q fever varies depending on the number of organisms that initially infect the patient. 2  Infection with greater numbers of organisms will result in shorter incubation periods. 3  Most persons become ill within 2-3 weeks after exposure.
It is an infection caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii which can cause pneumonia and hepatitis (liver inflammation) in its early stage, and infection of the heart valves (endocarditis) in its chronic stage. The incubation period (time to development of symptoms) for early (acute) Q fever is approximately 20 days.
Incubation Period. In humans, the incubation period varies from 2 to 40 days; the typical incubation period is approximately 2 to 5 weeks. Clinical Signs. The symptoms of Q fever appear acutely and can include fever, chills, a severe headache, fatigue, malaise, myalgia and chest pains.
Q fever has an incubation period of one to four weeks  in other words, it can take up to four weeks between exposure and the first symptoms. Usually it starts with a sudden high fever with muscle pain and severe headache symptoms  similar to influenza. There may be chills, sweats, cough, muscle pains and fatigue.
Incubation Period. 1  The incubation period for Q fever varies depending on the number of organisms that initially infect the patient. 2  Infection with greater numbers of organisms will result in shorter incubation periods. 3  Most persons become ill within 2-3 weeks after exposure.
Q fever is a worldwide disease with acute and chronic stages caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii. Cattle, sheep, and goats are the primary reservoirs although a variety of species may be infected. Organisms are excreted in milk, urine, and feces of infected animals.
Following an incubation period of 10-20 days, Q fever generally occurs as a self-limiting febrile illness that includes headache, fatigue, and myalgias and lasts from 2 days to 2 weeks. Pneumonia occurs frequently, usually manifested only by an abnormal chest x-ray.
High temperature pasteurization destroys the organism. Infections in Humans Incubation Period In humans, the incubation period for acute Q fever varies from 2 to 48 days; the typical incubation period is approximately 2 to 3 weeks. Chronic Q fever can occur from months to many years after infection. weight in some women.