Roman numerals combine features of a tally system and a numeral system. In modern usage: 1  Numerals are written with the largest values to the left: MCI is one thousand plus one hundred plus one, or 1101. 2  The values of two identical adjacent numerals are added. 3  MMCI is one thousand plus one thousand plus one hundred plus one. 
Roman numerals, the numeric system used in ancient Rome, employs combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values. From the 14th century on, Roman numerals began to be replaced in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals; however, this process was gradual, and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day.
What the Letters Mean. Here is a chart that has all the Roman Numerals, and what they stand for. The system is based on seven different symbols in total. These symbols can be used to write any Roman Numeral!
For the year, see 2009. MMIX (pronounced em-mix) is a 64-bit RISC architecture designed by Donald Knuth, with significant contributions by John L. Hennessy (who contributed to the design of the MIPS architecture) and Richard L. Sites (who was an architect of the Alpha architecture). 
You are here: the converter site » other calculators » roman numerals-converter. This page allows you to convert to and from roman numerals. Simply enter either a whole numeric value between 1 and 3999 or a set of roman numerals into the box below and click the 'convert' button. Please note that this converter requires you to have JavaScript enabled in your browser. Roman Numerals Converter. This page allows you to convert to and from roman numerals. Simply enter either a whole numeric value between 1 and 3999 or a set of roman numerals into the box below and click the 'convert' button. Please note that this converter requires you to have JavaScript enabled in your browser.
A mixed numeral is a number that is a whole number and a fraction together. For example putting the number 5 with the fraction 1/2 gives the mixed number 51/2 (five and a ha … lf). The seven symbols used for Roman numerals are:-   M=1000, D=500, C=100, L=50, X=10, V=5 and I=1    Roman numerals are the numbering system that the Romans used.
MIX is a number used in the number system of ancient Rome, called Roman Numerals.We here at Research Maniacs think it's remarkable that Roman Numerals have stood the test of time and are still being used today. 
Steps to convert mixed numerals to improper fractions. An easy way to convert a mixed numeral into an improper fraction is by using the following steps: Example: 2. Step 1: Multiply the whole number 2 by 7 = 14. Mixed numerals are numbers which have both a whole number part and a fractional part. Example: 1; 3; or 6.