Using the photo uploader. To add pictures to your listing: In the Bring your pictures to life section of the listing form, click the Add/Edit Photos button. Click the Select photos from a file browser button and find the picture or pictures you want to add to your listing. To add pictures to your listing: In the Add pictures section of the listing form, click the Add/Edit photos button. Click the Import from web link. Find the picture you want to upload and enter the URL in the field.
Image file size is measured in KB (kilo bytes) and for web/eBay use you really want to keep this number down while still maintaining good image quality. By default, a high quality JPEG image sized 600 x 400 pixels can be as large as 300KB or more. This is too much, especially if you have loads of images in your listing. Just use whatever size seems right for you when cropping images. If the product image is in portrait format, the height will actually be more than the width so in cases like these, the width will still be 600 pixels but the height could be 800 or even 900 pixels.
When you upload pictures, make sure. 1  Each picture file size is 7MB or less. 2  The pictures are at least 1600 pixels on the longest side. 3  We recommend you don't enlarge smaller images to make them 1600 pixels. 4  If your picture is in JPEG format, it should have a quality of 90 or higher. For example, you can crop out a busy background so that your item occupies most of the picture area. Our photo uploader provides commonly-used photo-editing features such as crop, rotate and adjustment of contrast and brightness before you upload. You can also find these editing features on digital cameras and scanners.
1 File too large-If you receive an error message that says that your file is too large, please check the size of your picture. 2  Use your image editing software (usually included with new digital cameras), and resize your picture to 7.0 megabytes (7000 KB) or smaller. For example, you can crop out a busy background so that your item occupies most of the picture area. Our photo uploader provides commonly-used photo-editing features such as crop, rotate and adjustment of contrast and brightness before you upload. You can also find these editing features on digital cameras and scanners.
Adding a watermark to your photos. You can use our watermark creation service to add a camera icon, your eBay user ID, or both, as a watermark on your photo. Note: Watermarks are the only text that can be on your photo. To add a watermark to your photos: Go to the Describe your item section of the listing form. To add photos to your listing: In the Add photos section of the listing form, click Add/Edit photos. Click Import from web. Find the photo you want to upload, and enter the URL in the field indicated.
You can copy your photos from a website instead of uploading them from your hard drive. Your photos will then be automatically optimized, and will be stored by eBay. To add photos to your listing: In the Add photos section of the listing form, click Add/Edit photos. Click Import from web. Find the photo you want to upload, and enter the URL in the field indicated. Click Add another to add more photos
Your pictures will then be automatically optimised, and will be stored by eBay. To add pictures to your listing: In the Add pictures section of the listing form, click the Add/Edit photos button. Click the Import from web link. Find the picture you want to upload and enter the URL in the field. Click the Add another link button to add additional pictures
Therefore, for pictures to be used on eBay and uploaded with the Basic Uploader, you can upload more efficiently by selecting an appropriate camera resolution setting before you take your pictures. We recommend a setting that produces original pictures of 1024x768 pixels (a common size) or some values close to that. Pictures of that size provide ample image data for producing high-quality pictures when resized and compressed to the eBay standard sizes by on eBay servers. The file size of a 1024x768 resolution JPEG-format picture generally ranges between 300-600KB, well below the upload limit.
For your template/listing description part you need to use a DIFFERENT set of images, ones much smaller than the 1600 x 1600 pixels used for the Gallery image. The exact size of the images you will use depends on the size of your template as the pictures obviously have to fit within the template’s width. Just use whatever size seems right for you when cropping images. If the product image is in portrait format, the height will actually be more than the width so in cases like these, the width will still be 600 pixels but the height could be 800 or even 900 pixels.