Planting in Successions: Beets are the kind of crop that is best planted in small successions over a period of weeks in the spring and fall. If you plant a 25-foot row of beets all at once, you have all those beets ready for harvest all at the same time.
1 Plant sugar beet seeds about 1½ inches (3.8 centimeters) deep in the soil. 2  Don't plant them too close to each other, as the roots can get intertwined. 3  Cover the seeds with a layer of soil. 4  When weeding around the beets, be careful, as the roots of the sugar beets are shallow and you can easily damage them.
When growing beets, make sure you plant the seeds one to two inches apart in the row. You can cover the seeds lightly with loose soil, and then sprinkle it with water. You should see the plants start growing in seven to 14 days.
Plant more beets. Stagger your beet planting about every 2 to 3 weeks if you want to have beets to harvest over a period of time. Otherwise, all of your beets and beet tops will be ready for harvesting at the same time.You can do this in either the spring or the fall.
If you want to know when to plant beets, you would plant them during weather that is cool. They grow well in cool temperatures in spring and fall. They do very poor in hot weather. If you have been wondering when to plant beets, you should remember that they can be grown all winter long in many southern states.
Beets don't need a lot of room to grow, so you can plant them either in a small patch or in a pot. If you're planting beets in the ground, prepare the garden soil with a garden tiller to a depth of 12 inches (30.5 cm). The soil needs to be free of rocks to help the root to form properly.
Planting Beets: Beets don't transplant well and are always planted from seed. The beet seed in packets is really clumps of 4-6 seeds. You can plant the whole clump and thin and use the greens when they get a few inches tall or you try and separate the clumps into individual seeds before planting.
Choose beet varieties to plant. There are many different varieties of beets and each has a different growing season. Check the number of days it takes the beets to mature, and choose the best one for growing in your area. When you've picked out a variety, purchase a few packages of the seeds of your choice.
If your beets were soft when you harvested them, you may have waited too long: Large beets (over 3 inches in diameter) can get soft, fibrous, or tough. Smaller beets (about 1 to 2 inches) are more flavorful and have a better texture. Medium beets (2 to 3 inches) are good for some purposes as well.