A refrain (from Vulgar Latin refringere, to repeat, and later from Old French refraindre) is the line or lines that are repeated in music or in verse; the  chorus  of a song. Poetic fixed forms that feature refrains include the villanelle, the virelay, and the sestina. 
It is immediately after Antigone confesses that the chorus accuses her of pride in Antigone by Sophocles (495 B.C.E. - 405 B.C.E.). Specifically, Theban King Creon asks hi … s niece Princess Antigone if she knows of his edict of non-burial of the disloyal Theban dead. The flaw in Antigone that the chorus pointed out to her in Scene 4,  line 45 was her lack of respect for human laws. This flaw would  lead to her death, and the chorus blame … d Antigone for her own  demise.
-1742, the city of Dublin, Ireland, witnessed the premiere of one of the world's best works, Handel's oratorio: Messiah-The music consists of 53 numbers. -This composition was written down in only 24 days-The libretto is a compilation of biblical prose from the Old and New Testaments. 
In the books before Antigone, Sophocles explains the story of how Oedipus kills his father, Laius, the king of Thebes, and marries his mother, Jocasta. Jocasta has a brother, … Creon, who marries a Eurydice. Jocasta and Oedipus have two sons, Eteocles and Polynices, and two daughters, Ismene and Antigone. The flaw in Antigone that the chorus pointed out to her in Scene 4,  line 45 was her lack of respect for human laws. This flaw would  lead to her death, and the chorus blame … d Antigone for her own  demise.
A Greek chorus (Greek: χορός, khoros) is a homogeneous, non-individualised group of performers in the plays of classical Greece, who comment with a collective voice on the dramatic action. Historian H. D. F. Kitto argues that the word chorus gives us hints about its function in the plays of ancient Greece: The Greek verb choreuo, I am a member of the chorus has the sense 'I am dancing'.
They sympathize with Oedipus when they see him after he has blinded himself. It is clear, thus, that the Chorus never takes a direct hand in the action. It does not consist only of spectators but influences the action in various subtle ways. Contribution of chorus to Oedipus Rex: The contribution of the Chorus in Oedipus Rex is considerable. They link the play with common humanity. In some sense they are often in the position of the ideal spectator. They fill in the gaps in the action when no other character is there on the stage.
The chorus is made up of a group of dancers and singers. The same individuals perform both dancing and singing roles. Usually, the chorus numbers a total of about 12-16 performers. Specifically, in the play 'Antigone', the chorus is identified further as being made up of elder Theban citizens. The flaw in Antigone that the chorus pointed out to her in Scene 4,  line 45 was her lack of respect for human laws. This flaw would  lead to her death, and the chorus blame … d Antigone for her own  demise.
Unlike his contemporary Euripides, Sophocles was known to integrate his choruses into the action of the play. In Oedipus the King we see the Chorus constantly advising Oedipus to keep his cool. Most of the time in ancient tragedies choruses do a lot of lamenting of terrible events, but do little to stop them. Amazingly, though, the Chorus in Oedipus the King manages to convince Oedipus not to banish or execute Creon. Contribution of chorus to Oedipus Rex: The contribution of the Chorus in Oedipus Rex is considerable. They link the play with common humanity. In some sense they are often in the position of the ideal spectator. They fill in the gaps in the action when no other character is there on the stage.
As a piece of music, chorus would refer to something sung by a large group, perhaps the entire cast, typically including soprano, alto, tenor, and bass. This is in contrast … to something sung by a soloist pr maybe two or three voices. The word chorus could also refer to that group of singers. A group of actors who function as a unit, called a chorus, was a characteristic feature of the Greek tragedy. The members of the chorus shared a common identity, such … as Asian Bacchantes or old men of Thebes. The choragos (leader of the chorus) sometimes spoke and acted separately