Although teeth grinding can be caused by stress and anxiety, it often occurs during sleep and is more likely caused by an abnormal bite or missing or crooked teeth. It can also be caused by a sleep disorder such as sleep apnea.
“Furthermore, parental report of tooth grinding may be a sensitive indicator of the presence of bruxism among young children.” Sleep-related bruxism involves the grinding or clenching of teeth during sleep. It is common for the jaw to contract while you sleep.
Furthermore, parental report of tooth grinding may be a sensitive indicator of the presence of bruxism among young children.. Sleep-related bruxism involves the grinding or clenching of teeth during sleep. It is common for the jaw to contract while you sleep.
A RealAge answered. To stop nighttime teeth grinding (night bruxism) in a child, you need to know the underlying cause. Some children grind their teeth at night because their teeth and jaws are developing. In younger children, teeth grinding may be caused by pain from teething. It can sometimes mean the child is having pain from an ear infection. Teeth grinding in children can also be a sign of stress, anxiety, or feeling angry or frustrated. Many children outgrow night bruxism without needing treatment. If your child grinds his teeth from stress, worry, or anger, talking to him about his concerns may help. You can also try a relaxing bedtime routine.
Bruxism (BRUK-siz-um) is a condition in which you grind, gnash or clench your teeth. If you have bruxism, you may unconsciously clench your teeth together during the day, or clench or grind them at night (sleep bruxism). Sleep bruxism is considered a sleep-related movement disorder.
Because grinding often occurs during sleep, most people are unaware that they grind their teeth. However, a dull, constant headache or sore jaw is a telltale symptom of bruxism. Many times people learn that they grind their teeth by their loved one who hears the grinding at night.
Teeth grinding is known by the medical term bruxism and most commonly affects people in their sleep. Over time, teeth grinding can damage the teeth or cause other health complications. But don't worry -- you can alleviate your pain with some home remedies and with the help of your dentist.