Anatomy. The roof of the mouth is divided into two sections – the hard palate at the front and the soft palate at the back. The uvula hangs from the middle of the soft palate and lies a short distance above the back of the tongue. It is composed of mucus membranes, connective tissue and muscle and it is flexible to ensure that it can fulfil its functions. 
The uvula is a nifty bit of tissue that hangs in the back of your mouth. It plays a function in creating guttural sounds in languages like German, and the click sounds of some … African languages. It does not cover the windpipe during eating and drinking. That is the function of the epiglottis. The useless conical thingy hanging down from your soft palate is the uvula. ANSWER. I might add that it is the pendular downward projection from the middle of the soft palate which helps to close off the back of the nasal cavity above it, during the complex movements of swallowing it also stimulates the gag reflex.
Best Answer: That dangly thing at the back of your throat, sort of between your tonsils, is called the uvula. It's part of the soft palate, a structure that helps make up the vocal tract. Although the uvula is used to make certain sounds in other languages (though not in English), its exact function remains unknown. 
Uvula Purpose. is to prevent the food from going into the nose while swallowing. In other words, uvula blocks the internal opening of the nose while swallowing the food. It also guards the food from messing with the wind pipe. This phonological function of uvula is very important as proper speech depends on it. Hence, purpose of uvula is to aid in proper swallowing of food. It also helps in blocking the wind pipe opening so that food does not enter it while swallowing. This prevents chocking of food which would otherwise obstruct in breathing. This aids in safe
The uvula is a nifty bit of tissue that hangs in the back of your mouth. It plays a function in creating guttural sounds in languages like German, and the click sounds of some … African languages. It does not cover the windpipe during eating and drinking. The function of the Uvula is to not only start the gagging reflex in the event of an emergency (i.e chocking or other airway obstruction) but to also help fight infection. Of … course your tonsils also help but most people have tonsillectomies (surgical removal of the tonsils).
The palatine uvula, usually referred to as simply the uvula /ˈjuːvjʊlə/ , is a conic projection from the posterior edge of the middle of the soft palate, composed of connective tissue containing a number of racemose glands, and some muscular fibers (musculus uvulae). Newborns with cleft palate often also have a split uvula. The bifid uvula results from incomplete fusion of the palatine shelves but it is considered only a slight form of clefting. Bifid uvulas have less muscle in them than a normal uvula, which may cause recurring problems with middle ear infections.
Palatine uvula, which is commonly referred to as uvula, is a small, conical projection that hangs down from the soft palate, at the back of the throat. It is made of connective tissue containing racemose glands and muscle fibers. Uvula Function. Uvula is the fleshy mass of tissue that dangles from the posterior of the soft palate. When we swallow solid food or fluids, uvula and the soft palate move upwards to close off the nasopharynx, thereby preventing food from entering the nasal cavity.
The main function of uvula is to prevent food going through the breathing passage while you swallow. The uvula function also involves, articulation of your voice to form sounds of speech. The uvula functions along with the back of the throat, palate, and air coming up from the lungs to produce a gruffy and other sounds. 
A bifid or cleft uvula. A bifid or bifurcated uvula is a split or cleft uvula. Newborns with cleft palate often also have a split uvula. The bifid uvula results from incomplete fusion of the palatine shelves but it is considered only a slight form of clefting. Bifid uvulas have less muscle in them than a normal uvula, which may cause recurring problems with middle ear infections.
Medical Function of Uvula. As mentioned earlier, uvula purpose is in blocking the nose while swallowing so that food does not go into the nose. Hence, purpose of uvula is to aid in proper swallowing of food. It also helps in blocking the wind pipe opening so that food does not enter it while swallowing. This prevents chocking of food which would otherwise obstruct in breathing. This aids in safe swallowing of food.