It’s often said that breastfeeding (particularly while lying down at night) will cause tooth decay, just like letting a baby sleep with a bottle of milk can cause “baby bottle mouth.” Essentially, a valid link has not been made between breastfeeding (nighttime or otherwise) and cavities. If the baby is actively sucking then he is also swallowing, so pooling breast milk in the baby’s mouth appears not to be an issue. A bacteria (present in plaque) called strep mutans is the cause of tooth decay.
The two dentist’s research have led them to conclude that breastfeeding does not cause tooth decay. One reason for night time bottles causing tooth decay is that the liquid stays in contact with the teeth for a long period due to pooling of the liquid inside the mouth. The conclusion of all this research seems to be that breastfeeding does not cause tooth decay. Read more articles on Tooth Decay. It has been established without any doubt that breast milk is the best possible food for infants and babies, and as far as nutrition and protection from infections go, nothing can beat it.
Per Brian Palmer, “Human milk alone does not cause dental caries. Infants exclusively breastfed are not immune to decay due to other factors that impact the infant’s risk for tooth decay. Decay causing bacteria (streptococcus mutans) is transmitted to the infant by way of parents, caregivers, and others” (Palmer 2002). If the baby is actively sucking then he is also swallowing, so pooling breast milk in the baby’s mouth appears not to be an issue. A bacteria (present in plaque) called strep mutans is the cause of
So there is plenty of evidence that rejects the notion that breastfeeding causes tooth decay. Breastmilk alone does not cause tooth decay. Infants who are exclusively breastfed, however, are not immune to decay as a number of other factors may influence a baby’s risk of tooth decay. What the research says. Blaming breastfeeding or breastfeeding to sleep for tooth decay is very common. The belief that breastfeeding to sleep causes dental caries is based on only 3 articles by Bram and Maloney 1, Gardner, Norwood and Eisenson 2 and Kotlow 3 that were done in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
Breast milk does not cause tooth decay. Although breast milk is sweet and contains lactose, it also has a protectant, lactoferrin, that attacks decay-causing bacteria. The reason why breast milk is so often mistakenly linked to tooth decay is because it is very sticky. Breast milk does not cause tooth decay. If you have ever nursed a child past the age of 12 months, you have probably heard the following from a dentist or pediatrician: “Breast milk causes tooth decay, so don’t let your child nurse at night or go to bed with a bottle.”.
Though it is frequently said that breastfeeding, especially at night, will cause tooth decay, a valid link has not been made between breastfeeding and cavities, like letting a baby sleep with a bottle at night can cause “baby bottle mouth”. The conclusion of all this research seems to be that breastfeeding does not cause tooth decay. Read more articles on Tooth Decay. It has been established without any doubt that breast milk is the best possible food for infants and babies, and as far as nutrition and protection from infections go, nothing can beat it.
When a child is sucking on a bottle or their mother's breast, their teeth are sealed off from saliva. It is saliva that breaks down bacteria to prevent cavities forming. ‘Our study does not suggest that breastfeeding causes cavities,’ Dr Chaffee said. It is possible that breast milk in conjunction with excess refined sugar in modern foods may be contributing to the greater tooth decay seen in babies breastfed the longest and most often, the authors speculate in their report. 
Moreover, breast milk enters the baby’s mouth behind the teeth, and, if baby is sucking, s/he is also swallowing. So the pooling of milk does not happen. The cause of tooth decay is streptococcus mutans, a bacteria present in plaque. These bacteria combine with food sugars to form an acid which actually causes the decay. The conclusion of all this research seems to be that breastfeeding does not cause tooth decay. Read more articles on Tooth Decay. It has been established without any doubt that breast milk is the best possible food for infants and babies, and as far as nutrition and protection from infections go, nothing can beat it.
Breastfeeding may act preventively and inhibit the development of nursing caries in children. “Human milk alone does not cause dental caries. Infants exclusively breastfed are not immune to decay due to other factors that impact the infant’s risk for tooth decay. Decay causing bacteria (streptococcus mutans) is transmitted to the infant by way of parents, caregivers, and others”. 