For example, most adults, even if they are healthy, should have screening for high cholesterol levels at least once. This is probably the most common 'routine test' that doctors would do at a physical examination. Additionally, many doctors will screen for diabetes with blood tests. Depending on whether your blood pressure was elevated, they may also screen for kidney problems.
Overview. Blood tests are very common. When you have routine checkups, your doctor may recommend blood tests to see how your body is working. Many blood tests don't require any special preparations. For some, you may need to fast (not eat any food) for 8 to 12 hours before the test. Your doctor will let you know how to prepare for blood tests. Blood tests help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. They also help check the function of your organs and show how well treatments are working. Specifically, blood tests can help doctors: 1  Evaluate how well organs—such as the kidneys, liver, thyroid, and heart—are working.
Annual blood testing is the most important step aging adults can take to prevent life-threatening disease. With blood test results in hand, you can catch critical changes in your body before they manifest as heart disease, cancer, diabetes, or worse. Having the proper blood tests can empower you to enact a science-based disease-prevention program that could add decades of healthy life. Sadly, most annual medical check-ups involve the physician ordering only routine blood tests, if blood tests are ordered at all. Far too often, this blood work does not even test for important markers of disease risk
Most people have the Rh factor—they are Rh positive. Others do not have the Rh factor—they are Rh negative. If your fetus is Rh positive and you are Rh negative, your body can make antibodies against the Rh factor. In a future pregnancy, these antibodies can damage the fetus’s red blood cells. When will I be tested for Rh antibodies? If you are Rh negative, your blood will be tested for Rh antibodies between 28 weeks and 29 weeks of pregnancy. If you do not have Rh antibodies, you will receive Rh immunoglobulin. This shot prevents you from making antibodies during the rest of your
A blood test is taking a sample of blood for testing in a laboratory. Blood tests have a wide range of uses and are one of the most common types of medical test. For example, a blood test can be used to: 1  assess your general state of health. 2  confirm the presence of a bacterial or viral infection. 3  see how well certain organs, such as the liver and kidneys, are functioning.
Typical routine blood tests include the complete blood count, also called CBC, to measure your red and white blood cell numbers as well as hemoglobin and other numbers. This test can uncover anemia, infection, and even cancer of the blood. Here are 10 things that your doctor may not tell you about results of blood tests like these, unless you ask. 1. Doctors often skip the good news. Your doctor should discuss all blood test results with you.
Blood Type and Rh Factor. Your blood type may be A, B, AB, or O. If you are like most people, your blood contains the Rh factor. This means you are Rh positive. If your blood does not have this factor, you are Rh negative. This can cause a problem if you are Rh negative and the father of the baby is Rh positive. 
This is a great question because the phrase 'routine blood tests' is common in doctors ' offices, and sometimes it is not very well explained! When you have a physical examination, there are several blood tests that are commonly done, depending on your age and your risk factors. This is probably the most common 'routine test' that doctors would do at a physical examination. Additionally, many doctors will screen for diabetes with blood tests. Depending on whether your blood pressure was elevated, they may also screen for kidney problems.
Share. Blood tests are a routine part of your antenatal care in pregnancy. When you go for your booking appointment, either with your midwife or your GP, you’re likely to be offered some or all of the following blood tests. 