Although the term abstract expressionism was first applied to American art in 1946 by the art critic Robert Coates, it had been first used in Germany in 1919 in the magazine Der Sturm, regarding German Expressionism. One of the most vocal critics of abstract expressionism at the time was New York Times art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg along with Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg were important art historians of the post-war era who voiced support for abstract e
The term Abstract Expressionism was also difficult to understand. Harold Rosenburg preferred the phrase Action Painting and art critic Clement Greenberg preferred American Type Painting. Because of the concentration of Abstract Expressionism artists in New York it was also known as the New York School. Jean-Paul Riopelle first introduced Abstract Expressionism to Europe in Paris in the 1950s. Two years later art curator Michel Tapi 's groundbreaking book Un Art Autre was enormously influential in promoting the movement in Europe. Tapi promoted the works of Pollock and Hans Hoffman in exhibitions across Europe.
While the movement is closely associated with painting, and painters such as Arshile Gorky, Franz Kline, Clyfford Still, Hans Hofmann, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, and others, collagist Anne Ryan and sculpture and certain sculptors in particular were also integral to Abstract Expressionism. One of the most vocal critics of abstract expressionism at the time was New York Times art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg along with Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg were important art historians of the post-war era who voiced support for abstract e
Licensed from Columbia University Press. abstract expressionism, movement of abstract painting that emerged in New York City during the mid-1940s and attained singular prominence in American art in the following decade; also called action painting and the New York school. 
abstract expressionism. abstract expressionism, movement of abstract painting that emerged in New York City during the mid-1940s and attained singular prominence in American art in the following decade; also called action painting and the New York school. 
Abstract Expressionist Sculpture. Explore how sculptors took on the challenges of Abstract Expressionism. Abstract Expressionism is a term applied to a movement in American painting that flourished in New York City after World War II, sometimes referred to as the New York School or, more narrowly, as action painting. Abstract Expressionist Artists in New York City. Abstract Expressionism marked the beginning of New York City’s influence as the center of the western art world. The world of the Abstract Expressionist artists was firmly rooted in Lower Manhattan.
Color Field painting is a style of abstract painting that emerged in New York City during the 1940s and 1950s. It was inspired by European modernism and closely related to Abstract Expressionism, while many of its notable early proponents were among the pioneering Abstract Expressionists. 
Abstract Expressionism. Key Dates: 1940-1960. Emerging in the 1940s in New York City and flourishing in the Fifties, Abstract Expressionism is regarded by many as the golden age of American art.
Abstract expressionism is a post– World War II art movement in American painting, developed in New York in the 1940s. It was the first specifically American movement to achieve international influence and put New York City at the center of the western art world, a role formerly filled by Paris. One of the most vocal critics of abstract expressionism at the time was New York Times art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg along with Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg were important art historians of the post-war era who voiced support for abstract expressionism.