The Executive Branch and the Congress have constitutional responsibilities for U.S. foreign policy. Within the Executive Branch, the Department of State is the lead U.S. foreign affairs agency, and the Secretary of State is the President's principal foreign policy adviser. The Executive Secretariat (S/ES) , comprised of the Executive Secretary and four Deputy Executive Secretaries, is responsible for coordinating the work of the Department internally, serving as the liaison between the Department's bureaus and the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretaries.
The Department of Business and Professional Regulation is the agency charged with licensing and regulating businesses and professionals in the State of Florida, such as cosmetologists, veterinarians, real estate agents and pari-mutuel wagering facilities. 
Chief of Staff. The Chief of Staff for the City of Tampa is Dennis Rogero. He is responsible for coordinating and integrating the efforts of all departments and agencies to implement the programs directed by the mayor and the policies developed by the City Council.
The Under Secretary for Management is the State Department's representative on the President's Management Council, and is responsible for implementing the President's Management Agenda (PMA). The PMA is a set of management initiatives designed to make government more citizen-centered, effective, and efficient. The Executive Secretariat (S/ES) , comprised of the Executive Secretary and four Deputy Executive Secretaries, is responsible for coordinating the work of the Department internally, serving as the liaison between the Department's bureaus and the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretaries.
The Chief of Staff also manages external affairs and board member relations. The OCS coordinates the agency’s external affairs, including press and media inquiries, website and social media management, and legislative/intergovernmental relations. The Chief of Staff provides high-level support to commissioners in their official capacity by streamlining communications, setting board meeting schedules and agendas, and providing briefings. About the Chief of Staff. Coleen A. Elstermeyer has served as the HPC’s Chief of Staff since January, 2013.
The Chief of Staff and her office provide leadership to the senior management team, staff, and commissioners. Reporting directly to the Executive Director, the Chief of Staff is responsible for both agency-level and cross-functional strategic planning and operations. The Chief of Staff provides high-level support to commissioners in their official capacity by streamlining communications, setting board meeting schedules and agendas, and providing briefings. About the Chief of Staff. Coleen A. Elstermeyer has served as the HPC’s Chief of Staff since January, 2013.
Page Content. Mr. Ed Mornston serves as the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency’s (NGA) Chief of Staff. In this role, he is a member of NGA’s executive leadership team and its third ranking officer responsible for daily agency operations. 
The President is both the head of state and head of government of the United States of America, and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Under Article II of the Constitution, the President is responsible for the execution and enforcement of the laws created by Congress. Fifteen executive departments — each led by an appointed member of the President's Cabinet — carry out the day-to-day administration of the federal government. From the President, to the Vice President, to the Cabinet, learn more about the Executive Branch of the government of the United States. The power of the Executive Branch is vested in the President of the United States, who also acts as head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces
The Department of War was originally formed in 1789 as an Executive Department of the United States, and was renamed by the National Security Act of 1947 to the Department of the Army on September 18, 1947. Other senior officials of the Department are the Under Secretary of the Army (principal deputy to the Secretary) and the Vice Chief of Staff of the Army (principal deputy to the Chief of Staff.).