Kalabaka (Greek: καλαμπάκα, Kalabaka, kalabáka alternative Transliteration) kalambaka is a municipality in The trikala regional, unit part Of thessaly In. Greece the 11,841 (11841). 2001 The meteora monasteries are located in the. Town kalabaka is the northwestern terminal of the Old Thessaly, railways now part OF. ose Kalabaka was voted as one of the most beautiful places in Greece by the Skai TV show I LOVE GR.
Luiz, Brazil. Facing the impressive rocks of Meteora, Amalia Hotel Kalambaka features an Olympic-size swimming pool. Rooms include air conditioning and TV. Amalia Hotel Kalambaka features a lounge bar with 2 fire places and a piano. Amalia Hotel Kalambaka 4-star hotel This property has agreed to be part of our Preferred Property Program, which groups together properties that stand out because of their excellent service and quality/price ratio with competitive prices.
Kalabaka photo. Kalabaka main square with the Meteora in the background. Kalambaka (καλαμπάκα) is a small modern town with near Meteora. The most interesting feature of the town is the dramatic backdrop of the steep Meteora rocks that frame the northern part of the skyline. Kalambaka offers a number of hotels accommodations for visitors to Meteora, and its busy main street is filled with smalls tourist shops, cafes and restaurants. Kalambaka is a year-round tourist destination wand hosts a museum of modern art, and a traditional wood carving school. The most interesting landmark of Kalambaka (besides Meteora) is probably the church of the Assumption of the Virgin.
≡ Kalampaka. Kalampaka (Kalambaka) is one of the most ancient cities of Thessaly. It is a place which is imposed, having a wonderfull view, as spiritual place and cult towards god. On the feet of the rocks there is Kalampaka, a town of 15000 people today. In Meteora, Kalampaka (the town under Meteora) & Kastraki (a village near Kalampaka), there are many hotels, rooms & suites to stay!! Choose one from the list. We suggest some hotels too.
Amalia Hotel is a beautiful setting just minutes away from the town of Kalambaka. The hotel is embedded on 14 acres of greenery and has been built with traditional materials to match its surroundings. 
Kalabaka (Greek: καλαμπάκα, Kalabaka, kalabáka alternative Transliteration) kalambaka is a municipality in The trikala regional, unit part Of thessaly In. greece Kalabaka was voted as one of the most beautiful places in Greece by the Skai TV show I LOVE GR.
LEARN MORE. As one of the Divani Collection luxury hotels in Greece, Divani Meteora hotel offers guests the opportunity to enjoy traditional Greek hospitality in a contemporary setting. A luxurious escape to the magic of Meteora. As one of the Divani Collection luxury hotels in Greece, Divani Meteora hotel offers guests the opportunity to enjoy traditional Greek hospitality in a contemporary setting.
Please try again later. Kalambaka, located in the north-west of the Thessaly region in Greece, is the base town to visit the renowned monasteries perched on top of the extraordinarily formed rock pinnacles. Six of the over 20 built monasteries are still active and open to the public. 