1. decompose-separate (substances) into constituent elements or parts. break down, break up. chemical science, chemistry-the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and reactions.. (Chemistry) to break up or separate into constituent parts. 4. (Mathematics) maths (tr) to express in terms of a number of independent simpler components, as a set as a canonical union of disjoint subsets, or a vector into orthogonal components. (ˌdi kəmˈpoʊz). v. -posed, -pos•ing.
Prime Decomposition. Around sixth grade, students learn the decomposition process of prime factorization, which helps in solving problems related to fractions. Primes are numbers that can only be divided by 1 or by themselves, such as 2, 3 and 5.olorful numbers image by timur1970 from Fotolia.com. When elementary teachers talk about decomposition in math, they are referring to a technique that helps students understand place value and solve math problems more easily.
In mathematics, decomposing numbers is a term with a very specific definition. Learn about the definition of decomposing numbers with help from a longtime math teacher in this free video clip. Expert: Marija Kero. Bio: Marija Kero graduated from the Pforzheimer Honors College at Pace University with a Bachelor's Degree in Mathematics and Adolescent Educa
Verb. 1. decompose-separate (substances) into constituent elements or parts. break down, break up. chemical science, chemistry-the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and reactions.. (Chemistry) to break up or separate into constituent parts. 4. (Mathematics) maths (tr) to express in terms of a number of independent simpler components, as a set as a canonical union of disjoint subsets, or a vector into orthogonal components. (ˌdi kəmˈpoʊz). v. -posed, -pos•ing.
Definition of Decomposition. Decomposition is a method of subtraction by using the method of borrowing from the minuend.
decompose. vb. 1. (Biology) to break down (organic matter) or (of organic matter) to be broken down physically and chemically by bacterial or fungal action; rot. 2. (Chemistry) chem to break down or cause to break down into simpler chemical compounds.. (Chemistry) to break up or separate into constituent parts. 4. (Mathematics) maths (tr) to express in terms of a number of independent simpler components, as a set as a canonical union of disjoint subsets, or a vector into orthogonal components. (ˌdi kəmˈpoʊz). v. -posed, -pos•ing.
3. (Chemistry) to break up or separate into constituent parts. 4. (Mathematics) maths (tr) to express in terms of a number of independent simpler components, as a set as a canonical union of disjoint subsets, or a vector into orthogonal components. (ˌdi kəmˈpoʊz). v. -posed, -pos•ing.
decompose. vb. 1. (Biology) to break down (organic matter) or (of organic matter) to be broken down physically and chemically by bacterial or fungal action; rot. 2. (Chemistry) chem to break down or cause to break down into simpler chemical compounds.. (Chemistry) to break up or separate into constituent parts. 4. (Mathematics) maths (tr) to express in terms of a number of independent simpler components, as a set as a canonical union of disjoint subsets, or a vector into orthogonal components. (ˌdi kəmˈpoʊz). v. -posed, -pos•ing.
Decomposition and Place Value. Decomposition is a useful tool for emphasizing the differing values of digits in a number. The number 362 can be broken down into 300 plus 60 plus 2 by decomposing it into hundreds, tens and ones.olorful numbers image by timur1970 from Fotolia.com. When elementary teachers talk about decomposition in math, they are referring to a technique that helps students understand place value and solve math problems more easily.
Medical Definition of DECOMPOSE. transitive verb. intransitive verb. — de·com·pos·abil·i·ty \-ˌpō-zə-ˈbil-ət-ē\ noun, plural de·com·pos·abil·i·ties. — de·com·pos·able \-ˈpō-zə-bəl\ adjective.