The two amino a … cids bind together by peptide bond (amino group of one amino acid is joined to carboxyl group of other) and H2O molecule is released (condensation reaction or dehydration). Many amino acids combine to form polypeptide chain. These chains held together by hydrogen bond and form Protein. Amino acids are linked into chains by a process called translation. This happens when a ribosome attaches to the start end of messenger RNA (mRNA) and moves along it.   T … he chain is called a polypeptide.
Proteins are composed of α-amino acids linked together by peptide bonds into polypeptide chains. An amino acid is characterized by an amino group (-NH2) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) linked to a carbon, known as the α-carbon. Also attached to the α-carbon is a H and various R-groups or side-chains. O nly L-type amino acids are found in proteins, even though there is no obvious reason that proteins could not have also been made using both types of amino acids, or using D-amino acids. It is not that D-amino acids do not occur in nature, or in organisms, they do.
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. The ribosome is responsible for the synthesis of proteins in cells and is found in all cellular organisms. It serves to convert the instructions found in messenger RNA (mRNA, which itself is made from instructions in DNA) into the chains of amino-acids that make up proteins.
The type of reaction by which proteins are synthesized is  dehydration synthesis. This process forms peptide bonds between the  amino acids. 
A simple example is the condensation of two amino acids to form the peptide bond characteristic of proteins. This reaction example is the opposite of hydrolysis, which splits a chemical entity into two parts through the action of the polar water molecule, which itself splits into hydroxide and hydrogen ions. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The condensation of two amino acids to form a peptide bond (red) with expulsion of water (blue). A condensation reaction, is a chemical reaction in which two molecules or moieties (functional groups) combine to form a larger molecule, together with the loss of a small molecule.
The chemistry of amino acid side chains is critical to protein structure because these side chains can bond with one another to hold a length of protein in a certain shape or conformation. Charged amino acid side chains can form ionic bonds, and polar amino acids are capable of forming hydrogen bonds. In fact, each gene in cellular DNA contains the code for a unique protein structure. Not only are these proteins assembled with different amino acid sequences, but they also are held together by different bonds and folded into a variety of three-dimensional structures.
As the pH increases, the amino group looses a proton. Proteins are formed by a condensation reaction that joins the amino group of one amino acid with the carboxyl group of another. The resulting bond is a type of covalent bond called a peptide bond. Thus, proteins are also called polypeptides-because they contain oodles of peptide bonds. Primary structure-Refers to the sequence of amino acids in the protein. Once formed, the protein immediately folds and takes on a particular 3D configuration (see below). The shape of the protein is determined by the sequence of amino acids (the primary structure). Let s use pop beads to model a protein.
Within a protein, multiple amino acids are linked together by peptide bonds, thereby forming a long chain. Peptide bonds are formed by a biochemical reaction that extracts a water molecule as it joins the amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of a neighboring amino acid. The linear sequence of amino acids within a protein is considered the primary structure of the protein. Proteins are built from a set of only twenty amino acids, each of which has a unique side chain. The side chains of amino acids have different chemistries. The largest group of amino acids have nonpolar side chains. In fact, each gene in cellular DNA contains the code for a unique protein structure. Not only are these proteins assembled with different amino acid sequences, but they also are held together by different bonds and folded into a variety of three-dimensional structures.