It can be stored at room temperature for up to a year. Vegetable shortening can be found in all grocery stores. One brand name is Crisco. Copha-Copha is a solid fat that is derived from the solidified coconut oil. It is used primarily in recipes where it is melted and combined with other ingredients and left to set. Vegetable Shortening-A solid fat made from vegetable oils, such as soybean and cottonseed oil. Although made from oil, shortening has been chemically transformed into a sold state through hydrogenation.
Lard is animal (pig) fat, and shortening is vegetable fat. Lard is not used much anymore because it is very high in saturated fat. It is great for pie crust--makes a very flaky crust. I don't think I would use it for icing--it can have a distinct flavor of its own. 
Australian living in the US here. CRISCO and COPHA are no where equivalent. Crisco is very soft and does not set up like copha does and it has a really awful taste to it. And you definitely can't use it for Chocolate Crackles. I would be very careful subsituting copha for crisco in some of these recipes. Try this information http://www.cakesandmore.org/blog/2008/08/shortening-crisco-copha-solite-cream-cup/. You can use copha, you need to melt it first, you can buy a product called solite here in Oz from some Cake Decorating suppliers and it is pretty much the closest equivalent to crisco.
Shortening is any fat that is solid at room temperature and used to make crumbly pastry and other food products. Shortening is used in pastries that should not be elastic, such as cake. Although butter is solid at room temperature and is frequently used in making pastry, the term shortening seldom refers to butter, but is more closely related to margarine. Since the invention of hydrogenated vegetable oil in the early 20th century, shortening has come almost exclusively to mean hydrogenated vegetable oil. Vegetable shortening shares many properties with lard: Both are semi-solid fats with a higher smoke point than butter and
Newsletter sign up. Palmin is a vegetable-based cooking fat that can be used similar to lard or shortening. It is the same as the vegetable-based cooking fat called Copha, except there are two varieties of Palmin: one comes in a tub, which is almost spreadable, and the other comes in a block like Copha. The blocks come in 250g (1/2 pound) portions. Palmin is available in many European delicatessens in North America
Suzanne Ausburn wrote: I have looked up Copha in the internet and it seems that copha is hydrogenated coconut oil. Aren't hydrogenated oils trans fats?. I only found this out when I decided to try and cut out as much trans fats as possible as well as going fructose free. I don't know if copha is fully hydrogenated, I emailed the company that makes copha about the trans fat situation, but got no reply. It would be nice to know what the n/a really means. It sounds counterintuitive, but fully or completely hydrogenated oil doesn't contain trans fat.
Copha is the brand name in Australia. Kremelta is the New Zealand version, and Palmin is the German version, both of which are the same as Copha except for the brand name. Usually melted before being mixed in with other ingredients. Coconut butter OR 2 parts shortening or lard, with 1 part creamed coconut.
Copha is solidified coconut oil that will stay solid at room temperature. It comes in blocks or a cube wrapped like butter or dripping. It is white, but goes clear when melted. Kremelta is the New Zealand version, and Palmin is the German version, both of which are the same as Copha except for the brand name. Usually melted before being mixed in with other ingredients. Coconut butter OR 2 parts shortening or lard, with 1 part creamed coconut.