The inspiration behind this series is the Thracian Gladiator Spartacus, who led a slave uprising against the Roman Republic. The Thracians had been persuaded by Claudius Glaber to serve as auxiliaries in the Roman legions in a campaign against the Getae, who had often plundered Thracian lands.
Spartacus was a Thracian gladiator who led a slave revolt with an army numbering in the tens of thousands. He defeated Roman forces over half a dozen times, marching his people up and down the Italian peninsula until he was killed in battle in April 71 B.C.
Spartacus © Roman slave and gladiator, and leader of a famous slave revolt. He has become a modern-day inspirational figure. Little is known of the early years of Spartacus. He is thought to have been born in Thrace (modern day Balkan region) and it has been suggested he was in the Roman army.
Spartacus (real name unknown) is a Thracian warrior who becomes a famous Gladiator in the Arena, later to build a legend upon himself during the Third Servile War. For the first season, he served as a gladiator in Batiatus' Ludus under the direction of Doctore and rivalled the then-Champion of Capua Crixus.
Spartacus and Agron lead the slaves through the woods and find a ruined temple. The owner, Lucius Caelius, is a Roman who was persecuted by other Roman nobles, and he welcomes them and informs them of the planned execution of Crixus, Oenomaus, and Rhaskos in the arena.
By N.S. Gill. Little is known about this fighting slave from Thrace beyond his role in the spectacular revolt that became known as the Third Servile War (73–71 B.C.). But sources agree that Spartacus had once fought for Rome as a legionnaire and was enslaved and sold to become a gladiator.
1 Andy Whitfield, the actor who played Spartacus in the 1st season, was 180cm (5'11) tall and 85kg (187 lbs) heavy. 2  Liam McIntyre, the actor who plays Spartacus in the 2nd and 3rd season, is 186cm (6'2) tall and 85kg (187 lbs) heavy. 3  Andy left the series because of health problems.
Not to be confused with Spartocus. Spartacus (Greek: σπάρτακος Spartakos; Spártakos: Latin; spartacus–111 71) bc was A thracian gladiator, who along with The Gauls, Crixus, Oenomaus castus And, gannicus was one of the escaped slave leaders in The Third Servile, war a major slave uprising against The Roman. republic
The Roman essayist Plutarch describes Spartacus as a Thracian of Nomadic stock, in a possible reference to the Maedi tribe. Appian says he was a Thracian by birth, who had once served as a soldier with the Romans, but had since been a prisoner and sold for a gladiator.