1 Stef Carse covered the song with lyrics in French, which was titled Achy Breaky Dance.. 2  Marianne Weber a Dutch singer covered the song on her album Country & Weber, which was titled Ik doe wat ik wil. 3  In 2014, Cyrus and rapper Buck 22 released an updated version of the song called Achy Breaky 2. The lyrics describe Yankovic's annoyance with Achy Breaky Heart, as well as several alternatives he would rather endure rather than having to listen to it any more, including being ti[ed]...to a chair and kick[ed]...down the stairs. This parody appears on his album Alapalooza.
Achy Breaky Heart was very clearly written to be a country song. Writer Don Von Tress originally titled it Don’t Tell My Heart. The Marcy Brothers recorded it a year before Billy Ray Cyrus did, but they didn’t achieve the international success he did with the song. In the new version Cyrus brings Dionne Warwick’s son Buck22–whose real name is Damon Eliot–on board. Cyrus drops some lyrics about daughter Miley and her penchant for twerking in the remake of the song. Larry King, who opens the video with a bizarre prelude, tweeted about the Achy Breaky Heart remake.
Weird Al Yankovic did a spoof of this called Achy Breaky Song, in which he begs the DJ not to play that Achy Breaky song.. Al offers alternatives like Yoko Ono, Vanilla Ice and Zamfir. In Billy Ray Cyrus' 2006 song I Want My Mullet Back, the riff to this song is sampled in the guitar solo. (thanks, Vincent-Fayetteville, AR). A rap reworking of the song by Buck 22 titled  Achy Breaky 2  entered the Hot 100 in 2014. Cyrus contributed vocals to this new version as well and also appeared in the video.
In the Hannah Montana episode  The Way We Almost Weren't , Billy Ray Cyrus' character Robby Stewart is seen in a fictional setting writing Achy Breaky Heart in a New Mexico cafe in 1987. He tries the words itchy twitchy heart and herky jerky heart but is unsatisfied. The lyrics describe Yankovic's annoyance with Achy Breaky Heart, as well as several alternatives he would rather endure rather than having to listen to it any more, including being ti[ed]...to a chair and kick[ed]...down the stairs. This parody appears on his album Alapalooza.
While the show was running, Miley and Billy Ray released a duet called  Ready, Set, Don't Go , which went to #37 US, giving Billy Ray his first Top 40 since Achy Breaky.. Miley would soon become a media sensation and by far the most famous Cyrus. A rap reworking of the song by Buck 22 titled  Achy Breaky 2  entered the Hot 100 in 2014. Cyrus contributed vocals to this new version as well and also appeared in the video.
That was the idea -- a funny way of looking at a broken heart.. It all came together at the most unlikely of spots. I was at the drive-through at a Hardee's in Indiana, he laughs, when the melody popped into my head. And then the words 'Achy Breaky Heart' just rolled out. But that seemed like the hook, Don continues. The title I used was 'Don't Tell My Heart.' Once I got that, it didn't take long to write. 
Originally titled Don't Tell My Heart and performed by The Marcy Brothers in 1991, its name was later changed to Achy Breaky Heart and performed by Billy Ray Cyrus on his 1992 album Some Gave All. 
Achy Breaky Heart  is a country music song written by Don Von Tress. Originally titled Don't Tell My Heart and performed by The Marcy Brothers in 1991, its name was later changed to Achy Breaky Heart and performed by Billy Ray Cyrus on his 1992 album Some Gave All. The lyrics describe Yankovic's annoyance with Achy Breaky Heart, as well as several alternatives he would rather endure rather than having to listen to it any more, including being ti[ed]...to a chair and kick[ed]...down the stairs. This parody appears on his album Alapalooza.
Billy Ray Cyrus soared to international fame with the release of his catchy version of Achy Breaky Heart. The country song had people all over the world tapping their toes to the country tune with the fun lyrics. In the new version Cyrus brings Dionne Warwick’s son Buck22–whose real name is Damon Eliot–on board. Cyrus drops some lyrics about daughter Miley and her penchant for twerking in the remake of the song. Larry King, who opens the video with a bizarre prelude, tweeted about the Achy Breaky Heart remake.