Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A non reactive HBsAg (hepatitis B surface antiGEN) tells you nothing about your immunity to hepatitis B, only that you don't currently have the infection. If you are trying to work out if you need hep B vaccination you should check the levels of anti-HBs (hepatitis B surface antiBODY). 
Anti Hbs is a titer measuring antibodies to the hepatitis B surface antigen. Anti Hbs reactive means that you are immune to hepatitis B, either due to previous immunization or … recovery from hepatitis B. It is a pencil gradation system. HB means hard black B means black and 2H means harder. H (2H, 4H, etc) are the harder leads, and therefore draw a lighter line; and B (2B, 4B … , etc) are the softer leads, and therefore draw a darker line. HB is the very middle.
Anti Hbs is a titer measuring antibodies to the hepatitis B surface antigen. Anti Hbs reactive means that you are immune to hepatitis B, either due to previous immunization or recovery from hepatitis B. 
HBsAg non reactive means that you are not infected with the hepatitis B virus. You might have anti-HBs because of a past infection which your immune system has successfully fought off, or it might also be the result of being successfully vaccinated against hepatitis B. Source(s): Todd Langweilen · 5 years ago
Answers. Best Answer: Anti-HBs reactive means that they found antibodies in your blood which protect you from getting infected by hepatitis B virus. You might have anti-HBs because of a past infection which your immune system has successfully fought off, or it might also be the result of being successfully vaccinated against hepatitis B.
Best Answer: Anti Hbs antibodies mean you are immune to hepatitis B. Whether you acquired that immunity from a vaccine or an infection cannot be inferred from that antibody alone. 
What does a reactive Hepatitis C Antibody Test result mean? • A reactive or positive antibody test means you have been infected with the Hepatitis C virus at some point in time.• Once people have been infected, they will always have antibodies in their blood. • A non-reactive or negative antibody test means that you are not currently infected with the Hepatitis C virus. • However, if you think you might have been exposed to Hepatitis C in the last 6 months, you will need to be tested again.
To learn what the results mean for you, talk with your health care provider. Normal results are negative or nonreactive, meaning that no hepatitis B surface antigen was found. If your test is positive or reactive, it may mean you are actively infected with HBV. 
anti hbs reactive means? anti hbs reactive means? is this mean im a carrier of the hepa B? It can mean one of two things based on other test results: 1. it means past infection with clearance if the core antibody is also positive (anti-HBs).
To answer your question about HBSag: it is Hepatitis B surface antigen. This tests for the presence of virus. A positive or reactive HBsAg test result means that the person is infected with the hepatitis B virus, which can be an acute or a chronic infection. Infected people can pass the virus on to others through their blood and infected bodily fluids. as far as for hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb or anti-HBs). A positive or reactive HBsAb (or anti-HBs) test result indicates that a person has successfully responded to the hepatitis B vaccine or has recovered from an acute hepatitis B infection