The SI derived unit for energy is the joule. 1 joule is equal to 0.238902957619 calories. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between joules and calories. ›› Definition: Joule. The joule (symbol J, also called newton meter, watt second, or coulomb volt) is the SI unit of energy and work. The unit is pronounced to rhyme with tool, and is named in honor of the physicist James Prescott Joule (1818-1889).
Calories to Joules conversion. Calories (cal) to joules (J), energy conversion calculator and how to convert. 1  Calories to joules conversion calculator. 2  How to convert calories to joules. Thermochemical calories to joules. 1 cal th = 4.184 J. The energy in joules E (J) is equal to 4.184 times the energy in thermochemical calories E (calth) : E (J) = 4.184 × E (calth).
The joule (/ˈdʒuːl/), symbol J, is a derived unit of energy in the International System of Units. It is equal to the energy transferred (or work done) to an object when a force of one newton acts on that object in the direction of its motion through a distance of one metre (1 newton metre or N·m).
1 The small calorie or gram calorie (symbol: cal) is the approximate amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of one gram of water by one degree Celsius at a pressure of one atmosphere. The name calorie is used for two units of energy. 1  The small calorie or gram calorie (symbol: cal) is the approximate amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of one gram of water by one degree Celsius at a pressure of one atmosphere.
A Joule, J, is the SI unit of energy and is defined as one kg·m2/s2. The prefix kilo means 1,000, so one kJ = 1,000 J. As the energies associated with a single molecule or atom are quite small, we often find it easier to discuss the energy found in one mole of the substance, hence per mole. A calorie was originally defined as the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one gram of water by one degree Celsius. One calorie = 4.184 J. One kcal = 1,000 cal. When we count calories in our food, we are actually referring to kilocalories; e.g. 1 dietary Calorie = 1,000 cal = 1 kcal.
The factor used to convert calories to joules at a given temperature is numerically equivalent to the specific heat capacity of water expressed in joules per kelvin per gram or per kilogram. The precise conversion factor depends on the definition adopted. The name calorie is used for two units of energy. 1  The small calorie or gram calorie (symbol: cal) is the approximate amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of one gram of water by one degree Celsius at a pressure of one atmosphere.
Calories and Joules. In chemistry we measure heat using two different units: calories and joules. A calorie is defined as the amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of one gram of water one degree Celsius. The “calorie” you are most familiar with is used to measure the energy content of food. 