The blacktip shark (Carcharhinus limbatus) is a species of requiem shark, and part of the family Carcharhinidae. It is common to coastal tropical and subtropical waters around the world, including brackish habitats. Normally wary of humans, blacktip sharks can become aggressive in the presence of food and have been responsible for a number of attacks on people. This species is of importance to both commercial and recreational fisheries across many parts of its range, with its meat, skin, fins, and liver oil used.
Blacktip Reef Sharks are the centerpiece of the new Blacktip Reef Exhibit at National Aquarium, Baltimore. Blacktip sharks grow to about 6 feet and are commonly found in tropical and subtropical waters. Blacktip Reef Shark Cam is hosted at National Aquarium, Baltimore. 
Blacktip Reef sharks are commonly found along the coastlines of Pacific regions, such as Thailand, Japan, Philippines, New Caledonia and northern Australia. They are also found in the Indian Ocean from South Africa to the Red Sea. 
Blacktip reef sharks have extremely small home ranges and exhibit strong site fidelity, remaining within the same local area for up to several years at a time. They are active predators of small bony fishes, cephalopods, and crustaceans, and have also been known to feed on sea snakes and seabirds. A tracking study off Palmyra Atoll in the central Pacific has found the blacktip reef shark has a home range of around 0.55 km 2 (0.21 sq mi), among the smallest of any shark species. The size and location of the range does not change with time of day.
Reproduction: Blacktip reef sharks are viviparous-two to four pups are born live after being nourished with a yolk sac placenta for anywhere from 8-16 months (the length of the gestation period of the black tip reef shark has been debated). Pups are 12-20 inches long at birth. 
The blacktip reef shark (Carcharhinus melanopterus) is a species of requiem shark, in the family Carcharhinidae, easily identified by the prominent black tips on its fins (especially on the first dorsal fin and its caudal fin). A tracking study off Palmyra Atoll in the central Pacific has found the blacktip reef shark has a home range of around 0.55 km 2 (0.21 sq mi), among the smallest of any shark species. The size and location of the range does not change with time of day.
Most blacktip reef sharks are found over reef ledges and sandy flats, though they have also been known to enter brackish and freshwater environments. This species typically attains a length of 1.6 m (5.2 ft). A tracking study off Palmyra Atoll in the central Pacific has found the blacktip reef shark has a home range of around 0.55 km 2 (0.21 sq mi), among the smallest of any shark species. The size and location of the range does not change with time of day.
Range: Pacific and Indian Oceans. Habitat: The blacktip reef shark is very common in the coral reefs and shallow lagoons of the tropical Indian and Pacific Oceans. They are also beginning to enter the Mediterranean. Food: The sharks most commonly feed on snakes and reef fish. Reproduction: The blacktip reef shark has litters of two to four pups after a 16-month gestation period. They most commonly give birth in November and they give birth to live young. The blacktip reef shark (Carcharhinus melanopterus) inhabits tropical and warm temperate seas. They are pelagic sharks meaning that they spend their entire lives swimming in the water column as opposed to resting on the bottom.
Blacktip reef sharks patrol their territories in coral lagoons and around the edges of reefs. They often swim in water shallow enough that their triangular, black-tipped top fin sticks out above the surface, presenting a classic image of sharks as portrayed in movies and cartoons. 
Habitat. The Blacktip Reef Shark is found in warm, shallow water near coral reefs in the Indo-Pacific and Mediterranean Sea with depths of up to 80 meters (262 feet). This is a tropical and subtropical fish. It’s mostly found in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans and the Western and Eastern Pacific. They weigh about 130 kilograms (286 pounds) as adults