Definition and background information. Hydroponics originates from the ancient Greek, from the words “hydro” which means water and “ponos” which means work. Therefore, hydroponics system farming is an agricultural practice where the cultivation of plants is done without the use of soil. Plants are planted in mineral solutions (water) without soil. 
Hydroponics is a subset of hydroculture and is a method of growing plants using mineral nutrient solutions, in water, without soil. Terrestrial plants may be grown with their roots in the mineral nutrient solution only, or in an inert medium, such as perlite or gravel. The two main types of hydroponics are solution culture and medium culture. Solution culture does not use a solid medium for the roots, just the nutrient solution. The three main types of solution cultures are static solution culture, continuous-flow solution culture and aeroponics.
Hydroponics is the process of growing plants without the use of soil. Hydroponic plants grow in a combination of nutrients and water. The beginnings of hydroponics can found in ancient Babylon where they grew plants in hanging water gardens. History. Two German scientists discovered in the 1860s how to grow plants hydroponically without the use of a growing medium. They also discovered that plants could grow in a water/nutrient solution.
Simply, hydroponics is the production of crops without soil. Hydroponics uses nutrient solutions and water delivery to grow food. With growing concerns about diminishing soil quality and water scarcity, hydroponics becomes more and more interesting to agricultural producers. Soil has been around for ages. 
Hydroponics is the science of growing plants without the use of soil. It is also known as soilless culture. The term hydroponics comes from two Greek terms; hydros means water and ponos means work. Hydroponics has emerged as the answer to food security, a key pillar of the UN World Food Programme, in regions that struggle to produce their own food and rely on imports. When water scarcity is combined with an arid landscape, it renders traditional agriculture capital intensive and unsustainable.
Hydroponics. Hydroponics is a method of growing plants using mineral nutrient solutions, in water, without soil. The method can be implemented in places where the soil type is not ideal for the desired crop. 
Hydroponics is a subset of hydroculture, which is the growing of plants in a soil less medium, or an aquatic based environment. Hydroponic growing uses mineral nutrient solutions to feed the plants in water, without soil. For those of us who love growing plants these are exciting times indeed. As active hydroponic systems go, water culture is the simplest. The roots of the plant are totally immersed in the water which contains the specific Growth Technology nutrient solutions. An air pump with help oxygenate the water and allow the roots to breathe. NOTE.
Types of Hydroponic Systems. There are several different systems used to grow plants hydroponically. Some different systems are NFT or Nutrient Film Technique, ebb and flow and aeroponics. All work on the same principle: They recirculate the water and nutrients over the plants roots. History. Two German scientists discovered in the 1860s how to grow plants hydroponically without the use of a growing medium. They also discovered that plants could grow in a water/nutrient solution.
The word, Hydroponic, comes from Latin and means working water. Simply put, it is the art of growing plants without soil. When most people think of hydroponics, they think of plants grown with their roots suspended directly into water with no growing medium. With hydroponics this is an easy task; in soil it is far more difficult. With hydroponics the plants are grown in an inert growing medium (see below) and a perfectly balanced, pH adjusted nutrient solution is delivered to the roots in a highly soluble form.
Post. Share. Hydroponics is the term used to describe growing without soil. It is also known as soil-less gardening. This includes the basic plant in a container of water, or a more intricate form of hydroponics, growing in a non-soil medium like gravel, sand, vermiculite, crushed rock bricks or even Styrofoam. 