For Cheddar and Colby cheese production, starter cultures include strains of Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris and/or lactis. Likewise, blue cheeses require Lactococcus lactis ssp. cremoris or lactis, but the mold Penicillium roqueforti is also added as a secondary culture for flavor and blue appearance. L. lactis ssp. cremoris is represented by the laboratory strains LM0230 and MG1363. Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis is represented in research laboratories by the workhorse strain, IL1403.
These organisms are commonly used in the dairy industry in the manufacture of fermented dairy products such as cheeses. They can be used in single-strain starter cultures, or in mixed-strain cultures with other lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus and Streptococcus. They are gram-positive, catalase-negative, non-motile cocci that are found singly, in pairs, or in chains. The genus contains strains known to grow at or below 7˚C. Nine species of Lactococcus are currently recognized along with four subspecies.
[ edit intro ]. Lactococcus lactis is a non-pathogenic, Gram-positive bacteria, known for its essential role in dairy food production. It is closely related to the streptococcus genus and has two subspecies, L. lactis subsp. and L. cremoris subsp. Ecology. Lactococcus lactis is an opportunistic bacteria, in nature, it can be found on wild plants and consequently in the gastrointestinal tract of animals, such as cows, and are ultimately inoculated in milk. A study has been done showing the survival rate of ingested L. lactis.
Lactococcus lactis is known as a bacterium that’s Gram-positive. It is used in the industry for the production of cheese and buttermilk. Lately, it was utilized as a genetically modified organism for treating various diseases. Recently, Lactococcus lactis entered the biomedical area. It was soon discovered that the bacterium can be a delivery vector for the immune modulatory and therapeutic proteins and also for antigens. Animal and in vitro studies confirmed this beneficial fact.
Cultured Butter, Buttermilk and Sour Cream Sour cream is made from cream to which a starter culture of Lactococcus lactis has been added to coagulate the cream and to enhance its flavor. Buttermilk is also made with Lactococcus lactis in order to acidify, preserve and flavor the milk. L. lactis ssp. cremoris is represented by the laboratory strains LM0230 and MG1363. Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis is represented in research laboratories by the workhorse strain, IL1403.
Lactococcus lactis is a Gram-positive bacterium used extensively in the production of buttermilk and cheese, but has also become famous as the first genetically modified organism to be used alive for the treatment of human disease. L. lactis cells are cocci that group in pairs and short chains, and, depending on growth conditions, appear ovoid with typically 0.5 - 1.5 µm in length. L. lactis does not produce spores (nonsporulating) and are not motile (nonmotile).
The bacterium can be used in single strain starter cultures, or in mixed strain cultures with other lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus and Streptococcus species. When Lactococcus lactis is added to milk, the bacterium uses enzymes to produce energy molecules, called ATP, from lactose. L. lactis ssp. cremoris is represented by the laboratory strains LM0230 and MG1363. Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis is represented in research laboratories by the workhorse strain, IL1403.
Lactococcus is a genus of lactic acid bacteria that were formerly included in the genus Streptococcus Group N1. They are known as homofermentors meaning that they produce a single product, lactic acid in this case, as the major or only product of glucose fermentation. Their homofermentative character can be altered by adjusting cultural conditions such as pH, glucose concentration, and nutrient limitation. They are gram-positive, catalase-negative, non-motile cocci that are found singly, in pairs, or in chains. The genus contains strains known to grow at or below 7˚C. Nine species of Lactococcus are currently recognized along with four subspecies.
Lactococcus lactis lactis is preferred for making soft cheeses and produces glutamate decarboxylase. Lactococcus lactis cremoris is preferred for making hard cheeses. It does not contain glutamate decarboxylase due to a frameshift mutation resulting in nonfunctioning proteins. Lactococcus lactis is so important in the cheese making industry, there is petitioning to make it the Wisconsin State Microbe. L. lactis is a facultative anaerobe that converts carbohydrates into lactic acid by lactic acid fermentation. The lactic acid fermentation can produce L-lactic acid and D-lactic acid at low pH. When added to milk, the bacterium uses enzymes to produce ATP from lactose the byproduct of which is lactic acid.