Cook pork, roasts, and chops to 145 ºF as measured with a food thermometer, then allow the meat to rest for three minutes before carving or consuming. Cross posted from the FoodSafety.gov blog: On May 24, USDA made some important changes in their recommended cooking temperatures for meats. Here’s what you need to know: 1  Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time.
1 Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time. Here’s what you need to know: 1 
Cover pan and simmer (do not boil) until tender. 4. Monitor temperature. Cook until meat is tender with an internal temperature of at least 145 °F. Chill cooked, hot food from 135 ºF to 70 ºF within 2 hours and from 70 ºF to 41 ºF or below within the next 4 hours. The total cooling process from 135 ºF to 41 ºF may not exceed 6 hours. 
Note: The following table shows Food Network Kitchen's preferred internal temperatures for meat and poultry based on taste and texture. Out of a concern for safety, the USDA recommends higher temperatures for whole cuts of beef and lamb than we do. 
This latest revision for pork comes again on the advice of the FSIS, which says cooking cuts of pork to 145° F with a three minute rest is as safe as cooking them to 160° F, the previously recommended temperature, with no rest time. “With a single temperature for all whole cuts of meat and uniform 3 minute stand time, we believe it will be much easier for consumers to remember and result in safer food preparation,” said Under Secretary Elisabeth Hagen in the USDA’s news release.
Call the USDA Meat & Poultry Hotline If you have a question about meat, poultry, or egg products, call the USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline toll free at 1-888-MPHotline (1-888-674-6854) .The Hotline is open year-round Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. ET (English or Spanish). 
The USDA is lowering the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160°F to 145°F and adding a three-minute rest time. The safe temperature for cuts of beef, veal, and lamb remains unchanged at 145°F, but the USDA is adding a three-minute rest time as part of its cooking recommendations. A temperature of 145°F would be termed 'medium rare.'.
I nternal Cooking Temperatures. These are internal cooking temperatures established by USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service for various meat items. The temperatures are recommended for consumers cooking meat products at home. Other temperatures may be recommended for food processing or foodservice operations. A cooking thermometer can help. IMPORTANT: After desired cooking temperature is reached, remove meat from heat source and let stand 10 to 15 minutes before carving. The amount of time required for resting varies with the size of the cut of your meat.
In 2006, USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) lowered the recommended temperature for poultry from 180° F to 165° F. At that time, USDA said chicken and turkey should be cooked more thoroughly than other meats because Salmonella is the most heat-resistant pathogen of concern in raw poultry. “With a single temperature for all whole cuts of meat and uniform 3 minute stand time, we believe it will be much easier for consumers to remember and result in safer food preparation,” said Under Secretary Elisabeth Hagen in the USDA’s news release.
USDA now recommends cooking all whole cuts of meat to 145°F as measured with a food thermometer placed in the thickest part of the meat, then allowing the meat to rest for three minutes before carving or consuming. The safe temperature for cuts of beef, veal, and lamb remains unchanged at 145°F, but the USDA is adding a three-minute rest time as part of its cooking recommendations. A temperature of 145°F would be termed 'medium rare.'.