At the moment the yard I am at is a D.I.Y yard with 42 horses on and the muck heap is just a pile on the grass its been there years apparently and only some of it gets taken away if it gets too close to the barn, there's a horrible smelly sludgy reddy brown water making a pool around it to and its generally an eye soar. 
For those of you who have your own field, stables etc can I pick your brains....What on earth do you do with your muck heap Having moved early December and not done anything about it cos of xmas and all this snow my muck heap is now getting rather large. I need someone to come and take it away for me. if a local farmer wont do it, have a look in your yellow pages under agricultural contractors and try them. i had to get one to come out and do mine last jan.. and it wasnt a big muck heap at all... still cost me 130 tho !!
I pay a friendly farmer to take mine away couple of times a year but I have large muck heap that he removes with tractor and trailer. If you register as a user there you can post details of the muck you have available, I bet you will get takers. Or if you give me details I'll post where/when for you (not giving your number though!) and ask people to pm me for full details how to contact you. Let me know if that helps.
1,077. burning your muck heap is now actually illegal (if you get caught that is) Definately contact your local farmer. Even if it is your landlord. Our farmer takes the muck heaps from most of the local yards, fields etc, and charges 10 a trip. Other farmers I know though, charge as much as 90 ! if a local farmer wont do it, have a look in your yellow pages under agricultural contractors and try them. i had to get one to come out and do mine last jan.. and it wasnt a big muck heap at all... still cost me 130 tho !!
My muck heap is cleared once a year by a local farmer 120 each load. I have 5 horses and the stables are bedded down with shavings, we also have a field shelter that has a hard core base and shavings are put down on that. I have 3 horses and heap (approx 8m x 8m) and a 2.5T trailer. I keep the trailer at the barn as the heap is a distance away. I also deliver muck to a friend with an allotment. We can fill a 2.5T trailer at the barn in the summer (one muck a day) in 3 weeks.
This thread made me laugh:-))) our muck heap is all I can say unorganised terrible but what more can u expect from a DIY yard on a old farm with about 25 horses. Thank god the farmer take it away about every 2/3 weeks. However I have seen people obsessed with the muck heap and what would be acceptable to reasonable people to this one individual it was never good enough. So then they would dump all their muck at the bottom so everyone else had to fork it up!! Who was the real problem here.........
The temperature in the middle or the mature heaps goes up to 50 degrees C even in winter, and my son is now going to put a coil of hose piping with a control on the other end from one of the stable taps through the manure heap so that we will have hot water on demand-great for cold winters. If you register as a user there you can post details of the muck you have available, I bet you will get takers. Or if you give me details I'll post where/when for you (not giving your number though!) and ask people to pm me for full details how to contact you. Let me know if that helps.
We are hopefully moving soon and new property doesn't have a designated muck heap. The current owners just had a sprawling one behind stables. For various reasons we don't want the muck heap to be in the same place and are thinking of having it in next field by hedge line as is easier access for removal. I have 3 horses and heap (approx 8m x 8m) and a 2.5T trailer. I keep the trailer at the barn as the heap is a distance away. I also deliver muck to a friend with an allotment. We can fill a 2.5T trailer at the barn in the summer (one muck a day) in 3 weeks.
Step number one for finding a muck heap is to look for signs. Some shows will hammer signposts into the ground where they want you to dump and you're safe as long as you use a signed area. Muck heaps are sometimes contained within walled wooden or concrete structures or metal containers, which makes them easy to find. Often, however, the muck heaps will just be on an inconspicuous open spot of ground. Keep in mind that some people will disregard the official muck heaps and make their own for convenience' sake, so make sure that the location seems reasonable before dumping your own wheelbarrow there.
Pin it. No one likes mucking out, and a muck heap is an unwanted but necessary part of horse keeping. But did you know that there is more to a muck heap than just making a pile and getting a farmer to spread it out every few years. 1 Site your manure or composting heap closer than 10m from any river, stream or waterway, or 50m from a spring, well or borehole. 2  Site your heap near field drains. 3  Put more compost on land than is healthy for the eco system.