To start IIS Manager from the Administrative Services console. On the Start menu, click All Programs, click Accessories, and then click Run. In the Run text box, type control panel, and then click OK. In the Control Panel window, click Classic View, and then double-click Administrative Tools. In the Administrative Tools window, double-click Internet Information Services.
Internet Information Services (IIS) 8.5 in Windows Server 2012 R2 provides a secure, easy-to-manage, modular and extensible platform for reliably hosting websites, services and applications. With IIS, you get choice and control without giving up reliability or security. Get everything you need to start running and hosting web applications with IIS using the Microsoft Web Platform Installer. This simple, streamlined installer will get your development or hosting machine ready to go.
To open IIS Manager in Windows 2000. On the Start menu, click Applications, click Administrative Tools, and then click Internet Service Manager. On the Start menu, click All Programs, click Accessories, and then click Run. In the Run text box, type control panel, and then click OK. In the Control Panel window, click Classic View, and then double-click Administrative Tools. In the Administrative Tools window, double-click Internet Information Services.
To open IIS Manager in Windows Server 2003. On the Start menu, click Administrative Tools, and then click Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager. On the Start menu, click All Programs, click Accessories, and then click Run. In the Run text box, type control panel, and then click OK. In the Control Panel window, click Classic View, and then double-click Administrative Tools. In the Administrative Tools window, double-click Internet Information Services.
For more information about how to install and configure IIS, or about how to create a Web site, see the IIS Help or the online IIS product documentation on the Microsoft TechNet Web site. As an alternative to creating a local site, you can also create a virtual directory. To configure security and authentication for a local Web site. In IIS Manager, right-click node for the site that you want to configure, and then click Properties. Click the Directory Security tab, and then in the Authentication and access control section, click Edit. Select the check box for the authentication method or methods that you want to use for the site, and then click OK
To create a local Web site in IIS 6.0. On the Start menu, click Run. In the Open box, type inetmgr and then click OK. In IIS Manager, expand the local computer, right-click the Web Sites folder, click New, and then click Web Site. To configure security and authentication for a local Web site. In IIS Manager, right-click node for the site that you want to configure, and then click Properties. Click the Directory Security tab, and then in the Authentication and access control section, click Edit. Select the check box for the authentication method or methods that you want to use for the site, and then click OK
1 On the Select Server Roles page, click the Web Server (IIS) check box. 2  A dialog box will appear asking if you want to add the role services and features required for Web Server (IIS) support. 3  Click Add Required Role Services to close the dialog box and return to the Select Server Roles page. 4  Click Next. To install the IIS Management Console, you need Administrator privileges for the computer on which you're installing it. To install the console on Windows 7 or Vista, follow these steps: 1  Select Control Panel on the Start menu. 2  In Control Panel, click Programs. 3  Click Turn Windows features on or off.