The Iwagumi style is a specific subtype of the nature style. The Iwagumi (岩組) term itself comes from the Japanese rock formation and refers to a layout where stones play a leading role. In the Iwagumi style, each stone has a name and a specific role. Aquascape designs include a number of distinct styles, including the garden-like Dutch style and the Japanese-inspired nature style. Typically, an aquascape houses fish as well as plants, although it is possible to create an aquascape with plants only, or with rockwork or other hardscape and no plants.
Aquascape. The term Iwagumi was originally used to refer to a Japanese gardening style in which stones were used as the ‘bones’ of the garden, to provide its structure: if the stones are well placed in the garden then the rest of the garden lays itself out. Iwagumi is one of the most striking and simple formations, representing a mountain scape or Buddhist triad so it is well suited to aquascaping. There are several different kinds of Iwagumi – in Sanzon Iwagumi three stones are used: one larger stone and two smaller flanking stones that lean towards the larger one.
The Japanese term “Iwagumi” literally means “rock formation.” In a Japanese rock garden, the rocks are the “bones” of the layout and usually consist of three or five rocks; one main or large rock flanked by two smaller rocks, but not of equal size. Each rock used in Iwagumi has its own name. There are special rules of Iwagumi, such as the way its substrate is laid and the order of rock placement. This article discusses the basics of Iwagumi that every reefscaper should know.
From The Aquarium Wiki. An Iwagumi styled aquarium (also called Ishigumi Style) is based on a Japanese term for a collection of stones or rocks arranged in an aesthetic appearance in a garden. Iwagumi literally means rock formation. Typically the grouping of one large stone with two smaller stones that lean toward the central stone. Together with planting and fence design, lwagumi or ishigumi is one of the three major aspects of Japanese gardens.
Germany. For me Iwagumi means a stone layout with almost narrow and only few species of plants. No real Guidelines, maybe for classic Chanzon Iwagumi, but all other stone arrangements are Iwagumis too and somehow there is always a main stone (the biggest one) and supporting stones (the smaller ones). Now, with that core, intrinsic principle, let's bring back what is emphasized the most-the golden ratio, odd numbers of stones, et cetera. These are very, very basic measurements of understanding as far as Iwagumi goes. Yes, you absolutely need to have a handle on these to successfully make an Iwagumi.
Aquascaping is the craft of arranging aquatic plants, as well as rocks, stones, cavework, or driftwood, in an aesthetically pleasing manner within an aquarium —in effect, gardening under water. Aquascape designs include a number of distinct styles, including the garden-like Dutch style and the Japanese-inspired nature style. Typically, an aquascape houses fish as well as plants, although it is possible to create an aquascape with plants only, or with rockwork or other hardscape and no plants.
The Iwagumi term itself comes from the Japanese ‘rock formation’ and it refers therefore to a layout where stones play the leading role. Rocks provide the ‘bony’ structure of the aquascape and the traditional geography is a design made of three main stones, out of which one large headstone and two small others. The most difficult task when it comes to the Iwagumi aquascaping style is to obtain that harmony and unity through simplicity. The Iwagumi is not about just collecting a number of stones but about placing them in a fluent, natural and spacious way so that they are related both to each other and the rest of the scape.
An Iwagumi aquarium derives its form and substance from the rock gardens of Japanese origin. There are very strict rules on how to create a rock aquascape like this. Iwagumi is one of the most striking and simple formations, representing a mountain scape or Buddhist triad so it is well suited to aquascaping. There are several different kinds of Iwagumi – in Sanzon Iwagumi three stones are used: one larger stone and two smaller flanking stones that lean towards the larger one.
The Iwagumi layout is one of the most challenging aquascaping styles out there. Developed around 30 years ago by famous aquarist Takashi Amano, this type of aquascape represents not just a minimalist layout, it also reflects the Japanese culture, spirituality and love for beauty and simplicity. The most difficult task when it comes to the Iwagumi aquascaping style is to obtain that harmony and unity through simplicity. The Iwagumi is not about just collecting a number of stones but about placing them in a fluent, natural and spacious way so that they are related both to each other and the rest of the scape.