1 The neurotoxin is produced by bacteria called Clostridium botulinum. 2  The neurotoxin paralyzes muscles and can be deadly. 3  There are three major types of botulism that differ in how they are acquired: food-borne, wound, and infant botulism. 4  Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. Botulism is a serious illness that causes flaccid paralysis of muscles. It is caused by a neurotoxin, generically called botulinum toxin, produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum (and rarely by C. butyricum and C. baratii).
Botulism is a rare but serious paralytic illness caused by a nerve toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum (klos-trih-dee-um bot-u-li-num) . Human botulism is mainly caused by four of the seven recognized types of Clostridium botulinum bacteria: types A, E, rarely F and possibly G. 
In all cases, illness is caused by the botulinum toxin produced by the bacterium C. botulinum in anaerobic conditions and not by the bacterium itself. The pattern of damage occurs because the toxin affects nerves that fire (depolarise) at a higher frequency first. Foodborne botulism happens when food containing the toxin is eaten. Infant botulism happens when the bacteria develops in the intestines and releases toxin. Typically this only happens in children less than six months of age as after that protective mechanisms develop.
Botulism, also known as botulinus intoxication is a serious illness that causes paralysis, caused by the botulinum toxin. The toxin is caused by Clostridium botulinum, a type of bacterium. There are four ways in which the toxin can enter the human body: All types of botulism eventually lead to paralysis, which generally starts with the face muscles and then spreads to the limbs. 1 Adult botulism-by colonization of the digestive tract by Clostridium botulinum in adults. 2  Foodborne botulism-as a result of eating foodstuffs with the toxin. 3  Wound botulism-when botulinum toxin contaminates a wound.
Botulism is caused by the bacteria Clostridium botulinum, found in soil, dust and river or sea sediments. The bacteria themselves are not harmful, but they can produce highly poisonous toxins when they are deprived of oxygen (such as in closed cans or bottles, stagnant soil or mud, or occasionally the human body). Introduction. Botulism is a rare but potentially fatal condition caused by toxins produced by Clostridium botulinum bacteria. The toxins produced by C. botulinum are some of the most powerful toxins known to science
Infant botulism signs and symptoms may include: Botulism is caused by botulinum toxin, a poison produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. The organism is common in the soil and exists in untreated water, and can survive in this environment as a resistant spore. 1 Adult botulism-by colonization of the digestive tract by Clostridium botulinum in adults. 2  Foodborne botulism-as a result of eating foodstuffs with the toxin. 3  Wound botulism-when botulinum toxin contaminates a wound.
Wound botulism. When C. botulinum bacteria get into a wound — possibly caused by an injury you might not notice — they can multiply and produce toxin. Wound botulism has increased in recent decades in people who inject heroin, which can contain spores of the bacteria.
Botulism is caused by botulinum toxin, a natural poison produced by certain bacteria in the Clostridium genus. Exposure to the botulinum toxin occurs mostly from eating contaminated food, or in infants, from certain clostridia growing in the intestine. Toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum is the main culprit in botulism. Other members of the clostridium genus can produce botulinum toxin, namely C. argentinense, C. butyricum, and C. baratii, but they are minor sources.