After blasting, mold residue is removed from the crawl space and all surfaces are HEPA vacuumed and damp wiped. During removal, the crawl space is exhausted to the outside. This prevents crawl space air with high mold levels from entering the house. Crawl space mold remediation is often difficult work. Crawl spaces have large surface areas of wood framing to treat or clean. A 1,000 square-foot crawl space with 2″x10″ floor joists will have close to 2,500 square feet of wood surface that needs treatment
Mix 2 quarts of bleach, 1 oz. of liquid dish soap and 6 quarts of water. Pour the mixture into a clean spray bottle. Wear a pair of rubber gloves, safety goggles and dust mask. With the spray bottle and a scrub brush, gain access to your crawl space. Apply the mixture to all surface mold and mildew that is visible. Allow the mixture to sit for 10 to 15 minutes. Reapply the mixture and scrub the area with a scrub brush. Spray the dirt of the crawl space with the mixture thoroughly. Mold and mildew may be growing in the dirt of the crawl space. Applying the mixture will kill any mold and mildew that may be growing in the dirt. Set UV lamps in the crawl space. Run the UV lamps for 24 hours
Crawl Space Mold Remediation. Cleaning up existing crawl space mold, or mold remediation, is a specialty of The Crawl Space Company. The first and foremost recommendation is that mold should not be treated or removed from a crawl space unless a drainage or encapsulation system is part of the work. This prevents crawl space air with high mold levels from entering the house. Crawl space mold remediation is often difficult work. Crawl spaces have large surface areas of wood framing to treat or clean.
Even a small amount of water can lead to crawl space mold, particularly on the walls, the underside of the subfloor and the joists. In the right conditions, crawl space mold can create reservoirs of mold growth that allow it to spread throughout your home. The goal is to completely enclose the crawl space and separate it from the exterior with a moisture barrier on the floor and liners that extend up the walls. In addition to blocking moisture that causes crawl space mold, closed crawl spaces can help reduce your heating and cooling costs.
Examine the overall condition of the crawl space before you begin cleaning. Check for mold, mildew and moisture, which can leave an odor, cause structural damage and health problems, and require additional cleaning supplies and repair materials. Remove any items stored in the crawl space, clean and store items in a different location in the home. Crawl spaces should not be used for storage because moisture can permeate the surface of items and create a breeding ground for mold and mildew
1 CRAWL SPACE DEBRIS: get rid of crawl space debris. 2  Junk left in the crawl space makes inspection and cleaning difficult and can support mold, rodents, hold moisture, etc. 3  CRAWL SPACE CLEAN UP: clean or remove mold from crawl space surfaces; remove unsanitary dirt, rodent droppings, dead animals, etc. 1 CRAWL SPACE CLEAN UP: clean or remove mold from crawl space surfaces; remove unsanitary dirt, rodent droppings, dead animals, etc. 2  CRAWL SPACE SANITIZERS: Cleaning or sanitizing the crawl space surfaces including the floor.
Depending on your geographic location, many homes have either a crawl space or a basement. Crawl spaces often maintain conditions that allow mold to thrive, leaving you with an unhealthy environment beneath your home that can affect air quality in the living space. The goal is to completely enclose the crawl space and separate it from the exterior with a moisture barrier on the floor and liners that extend up the walls. In addition to blocking moisture that causes crawl space mold, closed crawl spaces can help reduce your heating and cooling costs.
Crawl Space Vapor Barrier Installation: A correctly installed vapor barrier is one of the most important aspects of your home. This vapor barrier prevents excess moisture and condensation from accumulating in the crawl space. Moisture and damp air create a perfect environment for mold, mildew, and wood rot. By removing the moisture, you can keep your foundation, support beams, and home air quality safe. Our Clean Crawls crawl space cleaning team will go into your crawl space and eradicate all of those problems. We remove dirty insulation, fungi, feces, rotten wood, debris, and anything else that could degrade the efficiency or air quality
http://www.drenergysaver.com | 1-888-225-6260. At Dr. Energy Saver, we do a lot of work on attics, basements and crawl spaces because, when it comes to energy-efficient upgrades, these areas are the main priority. While working in attics and basements we often run into mold problems. 
A musty smelling basement, cellar or crawlspace often means mold and mildew, which can result from water leaks and basement humidity. In other cases, it can signal foundation issues. Learn how to remove mold in the basement using Concrobium on walls, flooring, carpets, furniture and behind walls. 