Weathering vs. Erosion. The main difference between weathering and erosion lies in where the process takes place. Weathering degrades a rock without changing its location. Erosion, on the other hand, causes rocks -- or particles of rock -- to be carried away from their original locations and deposited elsewhere. Weathering often leads to erosion: weathering breaks the rock down into small pieces that are easier for wind and water to carry away.
Weathering is the process of which leads to erosion. In weathering the rock breaks down from the condiments, ice, heat, wind, water, and acid. When the rock has moving particles, you know it is erosion. The weathering process contains no movement. Report Abuse. 
Weathering involves two processes that often work in concert to decompose rocks. Both processes occur in place. No movement is involved in weathering. Chemical weathering involves a chemical change in at least some of the minerals within a rock. Mechanical weathering involves physically breaking rocks into fragments without changing the chemical make-up of the minerals within it.
1 What is the difference between weathering and erosion? Weathering is the process of decomposing, breaking up, or changing the color of rocks. Weathering may be caused by the action of water, air, chemicals, plants, or animals. Chemical weathering involves chemical changes in the minerals of the rock, or on the surface of the rock, that make the rock change its shape or color. Carbon dioxide, oxygen, water, and acids may all cause chemical weathering. Mechanical weathering is the process of breaking a large rock into smaller pieces without changing the minerals in the rock. Mechanical weathering may be caused by frost, ice, plant roots, running water, or heat from the sun
Erosion is displacement of solids (soil, mud, rock and other particles) usually by the agents of currents such as, wind, water, or ice by downward or down-slope movement in response to gravity or by living organisms. Erosion is displacement of solids (soil, mud, rock and other particles) usually by the agents of currents such as, wind, water, or ice. Weathering is the decomposition of rocks, soils and their minerals through direct contact with the Earth's atmosphere. Types. 5 - Water,Ice,Wind,Gravity and Thermal.
Weathering and erosion are processes by which rocks are broken down and moved form their original location. Weathering and erosion differ based on whether a rock's location is changed. Erosion, on the other hand, causes rocks -- or particles of rock -- to be carried away from their original locations and deposited elsewhere. Weathering often leads to erosion: weathering breaks the rock down into small pieces that are easier for wind and water to carry away.
Weathering is the process where rocks are worn away or broken down into smaller pieces by wind ,water or plants etc.Erosion happens when these broken rocks and sediments are picked up & moved to another place by ice, water or wind. 
• Though both weathering and erosion help in reshaping the surface of the earth, weathering is involved in breakage of rocks into smaller pieces while erosion is the movement of these smaller fragments to newer locations as a result of blowing winds, flowing water, and melting ice coupled with gravity. Weathering is classified as biological, physical and chemical weathering. Physical weathering is all those processes that lead to breakage of rocks into smaller pieces such as collision, fracturing because of pressure, or release of pressure caused by erosion of top level rocks.
Weathering is the breaking down of rock into smaller and smaller particles. Weathering processes include frost wedging, acid rain dissolution, root growth, wind particle abrasion, heat expansion cracking, hydraulic fracture, and rock tumbling in rivers and streams. Weathering is the  breaking down of rock into smaller and smaller particles.  Weathering processes include frost wedging, acid rain dissolution,  root growth, wind particl … e abrasion, heat expansion cracking, 
Erosion is the movement of weathered material from one place to another place through the agents of erosion: wind, water, ice, and gravity. In tandem, weathering and erosion act to lower the high points, and raise the low points on the surface of the planet. Weathering is the  breaking down of rock into smaller and smaller particles.  Weathering processes include frost wedging, acid rain dissolution,  root growth, wind particl … e abrasion, heat expansion cracking,  hydraulic fracture, and rock tumbling in rivers and streams.