Leif was the son of Erik the Red, the founder of the first Norse settlement in Greenland and of Þjóðhildur (þjóðhildur Anglicized). thjodhild In 1929, the Wisconsin Legislature passed a bill to make 9 October Leif Erikson Day in the state; the bill was signed by Governor Walter J. Kohler, Sr. in May of the same year. In 1964 the United States Congress authorized and requested the president to proclaim 9 October of each year as  Leif Erikson Day .
Leif was born in Iceland in about 960 AD, son of Eric the Red. As was tradition with the Vikings, Leif did not grow up with his family. Instead, when he was eight he moved in with a man named Thyrker. Thyrker was from Germany where Eric the Red had captured him, had taken him to Iceland, but had not enslaved him. By Kevin A. Weitemier. Christopher Columbus was not the first European to discover the New World! This commonly held belief is wrong. Columbus didn't reach the New World until 1492, 500 years after Leif Erikson's arrival in 1001 AD.
Answer by Mooref. Confidence votes 37. Leif Ericson was born in Iceland but spent his youth in Greenland because his father, Eric the Red, had been exiled for three years from both Iceland and Norway for manslaughter. 
Norse explorer Leif Eriksson, the second son of Erik the Red, is regarded as the first European to reach North America. Erik the Red was the founder of the first European settlement on Greenland (986) and the father of Leif Eriksson, one of the first Europeans
Erik the Red. Leif was born in Iceland in 970 AD. His father, Erik Thordvalsson (Erik the Red), was a Norse explorer from Norway. In 986 AD, he moved his family to Greenland. During their stay in the country, Erik discovered two Norse colonies – the Eastern and Western settlements. Leif is a world-renowned explorer from Greenland. Although born Icelandic, Leif’s expeditions brought prominence to Greenland as a country of great explorers. Leif also played a very significant role in expanding Christianity in
Leif Eriksson was a Norse explorer born shortly before 1000 A.D. Exploration was apparently in his family blood, as he was the second of three sons of Erik the Red, who was the founder of the first European settlement on what is now Greenland. Erik the Red was the founder of the first European settlement on Greenland (986) and the father of Leif Eriksson, one of the first Europeans to reach North America.
Background. Leif Erikson was born of Norwegian descent around 970 CE in Iceland. It is thought that his father and grandfather were outlaws and explorers around Scandinavia and Greenland. His father founded two settlements in Greenland. Leif had two brothers and one sister. 
This is a timeline of his life. Date Event 975 Leif Ericson was born Leif Ericson was born in Norway. He had two brothers and a sister. 986 Leif's family moves to Greenland Leif's father was an outlaw and an explorer.
Leif Eriksson. Erik Thorvaldsson, popularly know as Erik the Red, led a colonizing party to Greenland in 986 A.D. after being forced out of Iceland. His son, Leif Eriksson, was most likely born in Greenland (but some say Iceland); his date of birth is uncertain. Legend relates that Eriksson served King Olav I of Norway and in the year 1000 sailed back to Greenland for the purpose of introducing Christianity.
Leif had two known sons: Thorgils, born to noblewoman Thorgunna in the Hebrides; and Thorkell, who succeeded him as chieftain of the Greenland settlement. In 1929, the Wisconsin Legislature passed a bill to make 9 October Leif Erikson Day in the state; the bill was signed by Governor Walter J. Kohler, Sr. in May of the same year. In 1964 the United States Congress authorized and requested the president to proclaim 9 October of each year as  Leif Erikson Day .