The gland produces thymosins, which are hormones that stimulate the development of antibodies. The thymus also produces T-lymphocytes which are white blood cells that fight infections and destroy abnormal cells. The thymus gland is very active in childhood. It plays a crucial role in developing and improving a child's immune system.
The thymus produces and secretes thymosin, a hormone necessary for T cell development and production. The thymus is special in that, unlike most organs, it is at its largest in children. Once you reach puberty, the thymus starts to slowly shrink and become replaced by fat.
In addition to immune function, the thymus also produces hormones that promote growth and maturation. Thymic hormones influence structures of the endocrine system, including the pituitary gland and adrenal glands, to assist in growth and sexual development.
1 The thymus gland, located behind your sternum and between your lungs, is only active until puberty. 2  After puberty, the thymus starts to slowly shrink and become replaced by fat. 3  Thymosin is the hormone of the thymus, and it stimulates the development of disease-fighting T cells.
The thymus gland is an organ in the upper chest cavity that processes lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that fights infections in the body. This organ is part of both the lymphatic system, which makes up a major part of the immune system, and the endocrine system, which includes all glands that produce hormones.
Thymus Essentials. 1  The thymus gland, located behind your sternum and between your lungs, is only active until puberty. 2  After puberty, the thymus starts to slowly shrink and become replaced by fat. 3  Thymosin is the hormone of the thymus, and it stimulates the development of disease-fighting T cells.
The thymus gland also produces a hormone called thymosin, which stimulates the T cells in the other lymphatic organs to mature. This gland also produces another hormone called thymopoietin, which is protein present in the mRNA (messenger RNA) and is encoded by the TMPO gene.
The thymus gland, despite containing glandular tissue and producing several hormones, is much more closely associated with the immune system than with the endocrine system. The thymus serves a vital role in the training and development of T-lymphocytes or T cells, an extremely important type of white blood cell.
These glands produce different types of hormones that evoke a specific response in other cells, tissues, and/or organs located throughout the body. The hormones reach these faraway targets using the blood stream. Like the nervous system, the endocrine system is one of your body’s main communicators.