Some people use flaxseed oil as a laxative for constipation, for weight loss, and to prevent breast cancer and prostate cancer. Flaxseed oil is also applied to the skin to sooth irritations or soften roughness. In foods, flaxseed oil is used as cooking oil and in margarines. 1 Prostate cancer. 2  Research is inconsistent on the effect of the flaxseed oil ingredient, alpha-linolenic acid, in prostate cancer. 3  Some research suggests that high dietary intake of alpha-linolenic acid is linked with an increased risk for
Flaxseed. Flaxseed is a popular traditional food and remedy, as flaxseed and flaxseed oil, or linseed oil, contain alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), an omega-3 fatty acid. Omega-3 fats are important for maintaining the body's health. 
Using flax seeds, or flax seed oil, in your skin care provides you with an all-natural remedy. Either rub plain flax seed oil gently into your skin or eat flax seeds on a daily basis. You can add them to your main dishes prior to serving, use them as a topping or snack on them. Healthier Skin Tone. By keeping your skin moisturized, flaxseed helps to prevent your skin from drying out. The moisturizing effect of flax seed can help you avoid a dull-looking skin. Dry skin is a precursor to a variety of skin conditions such as psoriasis, eczema and signs of aging.
The essential fatty acids found in flaxseeds help keep your skin hydrated and smooth in appearance. Flaxseeds increase your body's natural oil production, according to Dr. Jeffrey Benabio, dermatologist. The fatty acids are necessary for keeping your skin soft. Using flax seed can both protect and moisturize your skin. Your skin is protected in three ways. First, when using a moisturizer containing flax seed, everyday irritants are kept from entering your pores. Healthier Skin Tone. By keeping your skin moisturized, flaxseed helps to prevent your skin from drying out. The moisturizing effect of flax seed can help you avoid a dull-looking skin. Dry skin is a precursor to a variety of skin conditions such as psoriasis, eczema and signs of aging.
1 of 3. Flax and Flaxseed Oil. Flax is a treasure trove for alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), a plant-based omega-3 fat that’s a key component of the lubricating layer that keeps skin moist and supple. In fact, low intake of ALA can lead to dermatitis (red, itchy skin).
A Discovery Health answered. If you're eating a low-fat diet, flax seed can boost the essential fatty acids the body needs to produce healthy, radiant skin. Studies show both omega-6 fatty acids and the omega-3 fatty acids in flax seed help soothe skin conditions like acne, eczema, and psoriasis. 
Flaxseed is a plant-based food composed mainly of omega-3 fatty acids, a nutrient that is known for providing a multitude of health benefits. Flax oil is the richest vegetable source of omega-3, containing over 116,000 milligrams per one-cup serving. Healthier Skin Tone. By keeping your skin moisturized, flaxseed helps to prevent your skin from drying out. The moisturizing effect of flax seed can help you avoid a dull-looking skin. Dry skin is a precursor to a variety of skin conditions such as psoriasis, eczema and signs of aging.
Flax Seed Benefits for Skin. Flaxseeds and its oil contain several skin-friendly nutrients that can help to improve the health of the skin. Flaxseed oil is added to a number of skin care products like shower gels, moisturizers and sunscreen. The therapeutic and health benefits of flax seeds are popular around the world. The health benefits of flax seeds come from the high amounts of fiber, antioxidants and omega 3 fatty acids present in it.
1 Dry skin. 2  There is inconsistent evidence about the effects of flaxseed oil for dry skin. 3  Some research suggests that taking flaxseed oil by mouth with alpha-tocopherol daily for 12 weeks does not improve skin moisture in women with dry skin. 1 Prostate cancer. 2  Research is inconsistent on the effect of the flaxseed oil ingredient, alpha-linolenic acid, in prostate cancer. 3  Some research suggests that high dietary intake of alpha-linolenic acid is linked with an increased risk for
Flaxseed, also known as linseed, is sold whole, ground or manufactured into an oil form that is packaged in bottles or capsules. The oil is a natural source of alpha-Linolenic acid (ALA), which is designated as an omega-3 fatty acid. Proponents of flaxseed oil claim that the ravages of eczema, the annoyance of dry skin and even sunburned skin pain can be alleviated with this natural oil product found on store shelves.