The Guide to American Hardwood Species. Hardwoods are the botanical group of trees that have broad leaves, produce a fruit or nut, and generally go dormant in the winter. America's temperate climates produce forests with hundreds of hardwood species -- trees that share certain biological characteristics. Although oak, maple and cherry all are types of hardwood trees, for example, they are different species. Together, all the hardwood species represent 40 percent of the trees in the United States.
Red maple is one of the most abundant and widespread hardwood trees in North America (Figure 3.8). Probably no other species of forest tree, certainly no hardwood, can thrive on a wider variety of soil types and sites. There are thirteen native maple species in North America (Table 3-1). While most of these species are probably tapped to some extent, at least by hobbyists, sugar and black maple, along with red maple (Acer rubrum), provide most of the commercial sap.
By Steve Nix. Start your tree ID with my Tree Finder and Tree Leaf Key if you are not sure what kind of tree you have and the tree has leaves. If you have a dormant tree with no leaves in winter, review my Winter Tree Finder and my Dormant Tree Photo Gallery for extra help. The Most Common North American Hardwood Trees. Here are the most common North American hardwoods or trees variously known as angiosperms, broadleaf, deciduous and hardwoods. These trees are abundant in both individual tree count and varieties of species in the Eastern North American forest. Hardwood foliage are leaves that can be broad or narrow, thick and thin generally shed annually and can be aligned in an alternate or opposite arrangement. 
Here is a guide to a selection of nut trees native to North America: the common, the disappearing, and the gone. The North American continent hosts a wide variety of nut trees. What follows is description of those that are or once were the most popular and economically important, either for their wood, their fruit, or both.
1 The most common Ash species in the United States. 2  The 5 Most Common Native Maples in North America. 3  The Hardwoods Including Oak. 4  Easy Identification of Oak. 5  The Beginner eCourse. 6  The best 10 tree species for planting in large yards and landscapes. 7  Essential Tips on Using a Chain Saw to cut a tree. 
The monkey puzzle is a very striking tree which is native to central Chile. The tree has horizontal branches and occurs naturally in sub-tropical regions of South America and the islands of Oceania. The Chile pines are valued for their excellent quality wood which is used for building. The floss silk tree (Ceiba speciosa, formerly Chorisia speciosa). The floss silk is a species of deciduous tree native to the tropical and subtropical forests of South America. It has a host of local common names, such as palo borracho (in Spanish literally “drunken tree”).
Introduction. The diversity of forest types in North America is extensive and comprises a cross section of forest types from the northern boreal to the subtropical regions. A thorough and detailed description of all forest types found in North America is not the intent of this encyclopedia. Rather, a generalized description of the broad categories of types across the North American continent is the objective.
1 Hardwoods are deciduous trees that have broad leaves, produce a fruit or nut and generally go dormant in the winter. 2  North America’s forests grow hundreds of varieties that thrive in temperate climates, including oak, ash, cherry, maple and poplar species. The following offers a brief comparison of American hardwoods, softwoods and often misused tropical hardwoods and their appropriate applications: 1 