Fig fruit is an important food source for much of the fauna in some areas, and the tree owes its expansion to those that feed on its fruit. The common fig tree also sprouts from the root and stolon issues. The infructescence is pollinated by a symbiosis with a kind of fig wasp (Blastophaga psenes). Ficus carica is a gynodioecious (functionally dioecious), deciduous tree or large shrub, growing to a height of 7–10 metres (23–33 ft), with smooth white bark.
An introduction to figs. Figs are the fruit of the ficus tree, which is part of the mulberry family (Moraceae). Figs have a unique, sweet taste, soft and chewy texture and are littered with slightly crunchy, edible seeds. Fresh figs are delicate and perishable, so are often dried to preserve. 
The average large fig is 23 percent fiber and provides 2.1 grams. Vitamins present in figs include the antioxidant vitamins A at 2.1 grams and C at 1 milligram per fig. The B-complex vitamins niacin and folate are also found in figs, with 2.1 grams and 3.8 micrograms, respectively, in an average large fig. 
Definition of FIG. 1. a: an oblong or pear-shaped syconium fruit of a tree (genus Ficus) of the mulberry family b: a tree bearing figs; especially: a widely cultivated tree (F. carica) that produces edible figs. 2. ADVERTISEMENT
Fig fruit nutrition facts. Delicious, sweet fig fruit is one of the prime fruits enjoyed since antiquity in the human history. Fig is naturally rich in much health benefiting phyto-nutrients, anti-oxidants and vitamins. Dried figs, indeed, are highly concentrated source of minerals and vitamins. Health benefits of figs. Fig fruit is low in calories. 100 g fresh fruits provide only 74 calories. However, they contain health benefiting soluble dietary fiber, minerals, vitamins, and pigment anti-oxidants that contribute immensely towards optimum health and wellness.
A fig is the fruit of a species of ficus tree. There are over 600 different types of figs, bred for different colors, flavors and uses. Figs may have been one of the first plants to be cultivated and were raised in orchards in the middle east. They are still a traditional part of meals around that area. 
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. A fig is a small, edible fruit that grows on most species of Ficus tree. They come in several varieties, colors, and sizes, though they all tend to be somewhat bulbous in shape and very sweet. What we call a fig here in Barbados (and probably in other islands of the West Indies) is completely different from the fruit illustrated in this article. Figs here resemble short, fat bananas and grow on similar looking but taller trees. However, they hardly taste anything like bananas.
Figs grow on the Ficus tree (Ficus carica), which is a member of the Mulberry family. They are unique in that they have an opening, called the ostiole or eye, which is not connected to the tree, but which helps the fruit's development, aiding it in communication with the environment. Part of the wonder of the fig comes from its unique taste and texture. Figs are lusciously sweet and feature a complex texture that combines the chewiness of their flesh, the smoothness of their skin, and the crunchiness of their seeds.