Find out here. For raw and fresh ham, bake at 325°F until a food thermometer inserted into the meat reads 145°F. How long you’ll need to bake your ham depends largely on its weight, cut, and whether it’s cooked or uncooked. Use the USDA’s chart below to determine how long to cook your ham. Find out here. For raw and fresh ham, bake at 325°F until a food thermometer inserted into the meat reads 145°F.How long you’ll need to bake your ham depends largely on its weight, cut, and whether it’s cooked or uncooked. Use the USDA’s chart below to determine how long to cook your ham.Cooking turkey?
Cook for the right number of minutes per pound. You'll need to cook the ham until it reaches an internal temperature of 165 °F (74 °C). The amount of time you cook the ham depends on how much meat you're cooking and what type of ham you have. Check the temperature using a meat thermometer to make sure you don't over or undercook the ham. Here are the approximate cooking times: 1  For fresh ham: 22 to 28
Once the ham is ready to cook, put the joint into a large pan, cover with fresh cold water and add the leeks, onion, carrot, peppercorns, and bay leaves. Bring to the boil, cover with a lid then simmer the ham for about 20 minutes per 450g/1lb. To test that the ham is cooked, stick a cold skewer down into the centre of the ham and leave it for 10 seconds. Take it out and test it carefully against your lip. It should be piping hot. If the ham is very salty, you will need to soak it for 12 hours in cold water, changing the water once. If your ham is quite salty, place the joint in a very large pan, cover with cold water, bring to the boil.
1 To boil, place the ham in a large pot or Dutch oven in which the meat will fit fairly tight, and then cover it with cold liquid. 2  Add desired flavorings. 3  The liquid used for boiling can be plain water, water seasoned with herbs and spices, stock, or water with the addition of ingredients such as wine or fruit juices. 1 Cover and let simmer until the meat is done. 2  Cook for 20 to 25 minutes per pound after it starts simmering. 3  Check the ham for doneness by the use of a meat thermometer, which should show an internal temperature of 155°F.
The best way to do this is to place the ham on a rack in a roasting pan. Add water to the bottom of the pan and cover tightly with aluminum foil (cover the pan with the ham). Cook approximately 12 to 15 minutes per pound for a whole or boneless ham and approximately 18 to 20 minutes per pound for a half ham. Adding Glaze: When meat thermometer registers 135 degrees F., unwrap the ham and apply your favorite glaze. Ham with Small Bone: 1/3 to 1/2 pound of meat per serving Ham with Large Bone: 3/4 to 1 pound of meat per serving. How to Prepare Ham-How to Cook Perfect Ham Following information is from Hormel Foods.
The cooking procedures are as follows: Wash and scrape the ham, be careful not to pierce the meat as this will let out juices. Next place it into the pot and fill with water until the ham is covered by three inches of water. Place the ham onto the stove and boil it slowly for about 25 minutes per pound. You will need to skim the surface regularly and keep and eye on the level of water you should always keep the ham covered
Making the world better, one answer at a time. My Mom used to always boil her ham. It is Mother's day today and I was just looking up how long to boil my 9lb one. What I found was that for every 10lbs it takes 4hrs of gentle boiling. It also suggests to skim the water off frequently and to cover the pot and that the liquid should be 3 inches over the ham. 
Boiling is a good method to use when cooking dry-cured country hams. Cooking by this method provides a lot of flavor because it draws additional flavor from the meat itself and the bones as the ham cooks. 1 Cover and let simmer until the meat is done. 2  Cook for 20 to 25 minutes per pound after it starts simmering. 3  Check the ham for doneness by the use of a meat thermometer, which should show an internal temperature of 155°F.
Preparation method. Place the soaked ham in a large pan, with the onions, cloves, peppercorns and bay leaf. Cover with water, bring to the boil and skim away any impurities. Leave the ham to simmer, allowing 20 minutes per 450g(1lb). Pre-heat the oven to 190C/375F/Gas 5. Once cooked, remove the ham from the pan and stand for 10-15 minutes before peeling away the skin. 
Let the ham simmer 20 minutes per pound. DO NOT BOIL--just simmer--this is important. Consider simmering 15 minutes per pound if boiling half of a country ham or the boneless center section. After cooking (simmering), remove the vessel from the stove and allow ham to cool in water in which it was cooked. 