When the heart beats it pushes blood around the body. You can feel a pulse as the blood moves around the body at a variety of places (the neck, the wr … ist, the top of the leg). The pulse you can feel is from the blood being pushed every second or so-but the heart. The pulse rate is the same as the heartbeat rate.
Heart Rate vs Pulse Rate. Heart rate and Pulse rate are often misunderstood as one and the same thing. Actually there are some differences between the two. It is true that your pulse rate starts with your heart beat. A heart beat causes a pulse in your arteries. 
Guide. Your pulse is the rate at which your heart beats. Your pulse is usually called your heart rate, which is the number of times your heart beats each minute (bpm). But the rhythm and strength of the heartbeat can also be noted, as well as whether the blood vessel feels hard or soft
The pulse is the number of heartbeats per minute. The pulse is what you feel over an artery as the pressure inside increases following each heart beat. The average pulse rate is between 60-80 beats per minute. Each time the heart beats, blood is pumped into the arteries. As the blood surges into the arteries during a heart beat, each artery stretches and bulges. This brief bulge of the artery is called a pulse.
To measure pulse and heart rate, place two fingers on the wrist or other pulse location and press gently until a measurable beat is detected. Using a watch or clock, count the heart beats for 30 seconds, then double that number to get the pulse and heart rate per minute. These individuals have a pulse that is lower than their heart rate. Other factors affecting heart rate and blood pressure include body mass, athleticism, obesity, medication, alcohol use, and smoking. For most people, each contraction produces a pulse, so the pulse is an effective way to measure
You can have a patient who, on assessment, has a pulse rate of 60 beats per minute when measured at the radial pulse. However, when you connect the patient to an ECG their heart rate can be massively elevated, to say, 180bpm. Therefore the heart rate is 180bpm but the pulse rate is 60bpm. They are different. Answer   Because the terms heart rate and pulse are merely different words used to describe the same thing -- the terms are synonymous. Each terms describes t … he cycle of the heart completing one pump. 1 person found this useful.
the pulse rate and the heart rate are mainly the same but only have a small difrance which is that the heart beat is only your heart but the pulse rate is in more places aroun … d your body. 6 people found this useful. You can feel a pulse as the blood moves around the body at a variety of places (the neck, the wr … ist, the top of the leg). The pulse you can feel is from the blood being pushed every second or so-but the heart. The pulse rate is the same as the heartbeat rate.
Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. 1 Air temperature: When temperatures (and the humidity) soar, the heart pumps a little more blood, so your pulse rate may increase, but usually no more than five to 10 beats a minute. 2  Body position: Resting, sitting or standing, your pulse is usually the same.
Very simply, your heart rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute. You can measure your heart rate by feeling your pulse-the rhythmic expansion and contraction (or throbbing) of an artery as blood is forced through it by the regular contractions of the heart.
How to measure your pulse and heart rate. Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. 2 Pulse rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body when you exercise). 1 Your heart rate is the number of times per minute that the heart beats. 2  Heart rate rises significantly in response to adrenaline if a person is frightened or surprised. 3  Taking a person's pulse is a direct measure of