A: Yes. To order a signature stamp you must email or mail a hardcopy of your signature to a Staples print specialist. The email or hardcopy must provide your signature three times, written with a black felt tip pen. For more information about signature stamps, please call a Staples print specialist at 800–547–7224, ext. 35688. 
Reply by MaggieMae_CA on 8/9/12 12:45am. Msg #429832. You're gut feeling is correct, you do not put your notary stamp there. When borrowers ask me about putting my seal next to their signature on a signature line with the word Seal I tell them that seal in that instance is just a pretty legal word for signature. 
For other uses, see Signature (disambiguation) . A signature (/ˈsɪɡnətʃər/ ; from Latin: signare, to sign) is a handwritten (and often stylized) depiction of someone's name, nickname, or even a simple X or other mark that a person writes on documents as a proof of identity and intent. The writer of a signature is a signatory or signer. 
1 CMS would permit use of a rubber stamp for signature in accordance with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 in the case of an author with a physical disability that can provide proof to a CMS contractor of his/her inability to sign their signature due to their disability. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has issued Change Request (CR) 8219, which clarifies the use of a rubber stamp for signature. According to the CR, for medical review purposes, Medicare requires that services provided/ordered be authenticated by the author.
Today is: Monday, October 19, 2015. Regardless of the FORMAT of your seal and signature (embossing, rubber-stamp, or digital), the licensee is responsible for the care, custody and use of his/her seal and signature. The licensee may use whatever format works best in his/her practice. Mississippi does not prohibit or restrict digital seals and signatures. Mississippi does not have rules to dictate WHERE you sign your name (across, under, or next to your seal), nor is there a rule regarding the placement of the date.
I. SUMMARY OF CHANGES: The purpose of this CR is to clarify the use of a rubber stamp for signature. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 18, 2013. Disclaimer for manual changes only: The revision date and transmittal number apply only to red italicized material. The signature log might be included on the actual page where the initials or illegible signature are used or might be a separate document. Reviewers should encourage providers to list their credentials in the log. However, reviewers shall not deny a claim for a signature log that is missing credentials.
The actual legal basis for using a signature stamp -- a facsimile of an official's actual signature -- is specifically authorized under the Uniform Facsimile Signatures of Public Officials Act only for executing public securities and instruments of payment. There is a common misconception that once a facsimile signature certificate is filed, an officer's signature by stamp or other device will have legal authority on any document to which it is applied. The law has made specific provision for the use of stamped signatures in specific cases not governed by the Act.
Ingenious Ideas: Signature Name Stamps. Signature Name Stamps can be used to create a legal signature with a rubber stamp, so that the person does not need to write or create a signature that looks the same every time. Are these stamps legal to use on documents in the UK. In response to a comment from Robin who blogs at http://www.mobilityshopper.co.uk/ we made some enquiries to check that the stamps can be legally used as a signature.
Many people have disabilities that affect their fine motor skills but it’s also something you can plan in advance if you live with a degenerative condition. Another use for a signature stamp would be for signing letters and other documents, so that you do not need the help of someone to sign or act on your behalf. It may only seem like a small thing but it is another important element of daily life and independence that you can maintain. Are these stamps legal to use on documents in the UK. In response to a comment from Robin who blogs at http://www.mobilityshopper.co.uk/ we made some enquiries to check that the stamps can be legally used as a signature.