Autoimmune Diseases. There are a variety of autoimmune diseases that weaken the immune system. An autoimmune disease is the result of the body attacking itself. Some cells within the body become hyperactive and don't function as they should. When the kidneys are not functioning properly due to kidney disease, more toxins circulate within the blood. The excess toxins affect the immune system, making a person more tired and sluggish. A person with kidney disease will become sick more often because the immune system is weakened.
Diabetes affects the metabolism as well as the immune system. The disease causes the immune system to destroy insulin producing cells within the pancreas. The immune response is also much lower in people who have diabetes so they are more susceptible to getting infections that could result in the loss of a limb. When the kidneys are not functioning properly due to kidney disease, more toxins circulate within the blood. The excess toxins affect the immune system, making a person more tired and sluggish. A person with kidney disease will become sick more often because the immune system is weakened.
As a result, your immune system attacks healthy cells. Depending on the type, an autoimmune disease can affect one or many different types of body tissue. It can also cause abnormal organ growth and changes in organ function. There are as many as 80 types of autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune diseases affect many parts of the body. The most common organs and tissue affected are: 1  joints. 2  muscles. 3  skin. 4  red blood cells. 5  blood vessels. 6  connective tissue.
1 The immune system attacks and damages blood vessels in this group of autoimmune diseases. 2  Vasculitis can affect any organ, so symptoms vary widely and can occur almost anywhere in the body. 3  Treatment includes reducing immune system activity, usually with prednisone or another corticosteroid. 1 Graves' disease. 2  The immune system produces antibodies that stimulate the thyroid gland to release excess amounts of thyroid hormone into the blood (hyperthyroidism). 3  Symptoms of Graves' disease can include bulging eyes as well as weight loss, nervousness, irritability, rapid heart rate, weakness, and brittle hair.
There are many diseases that involve some aspect of the immune system function or malfunction. The most obvious would be infectious diseases such as bacterial, viral and parasitic infections. Hormones affect the immune system, so diseases that disrupt normal hormonal activity can affect the immune system.
Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. 
1 Vasculitis. 2  The immune system attacks and damages blood vessels in this group of autoimmune diseases. 3  Vasculitis can affect any organ, so symptoms vary widely and can occur almost anywhere in the body. 4  Treatment includes reducing immune system activity, usually with prednisone or another corticosteroid. 1 Graves' disease. 2  The immune system produces antibodies that stimulate the thyroid gland to release excess amounts of thyroid hormone into the blood (hyperthyroidism). 3  Symptoms of Graves' disease can include bulging eyes as well as weight loss, nervousness, irritability, rapid heart rate, weakness, and brittle hair.
The immune system function can also be modified and affected by the treatment and medication used for some diseases and conditions, such as anti-rejection drugs used in transplants and in autoimmune diseases and anti-neoplastic chemotherapy (cancer treatment) drugs. The most obvious would be infectious diseases such as bacterial, viral and parasitic infections. Hormones affect the immune system, so diseases that disrupt normal hormonal activity can affect the immune system.
1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 1 Graves' disease. 2  The immune system produces antibodies that stimulate the thyroid gland to release excess amounts of thyroid hormone into the blood (hyperthyroidism). 3  Symptoms of Graves' disease can include bulging eyes as well as weight loss, nervousness, irritability, rapid heart rate, weakness, and brittle hair.