Iron. One tablespoon of dried spirulina contains 2 milligrams of iron. This is 25 percent of the 8 milligrams of iron men need each day and about 10 percent of the 18 milligrams women should have on a daily basis. One tablespoon of dried spirulina contains 0.35 milligrams of vitamin E, a nutrient that helps prevent cell damage, which can reduce your risk of heart disease and certain types of cancer.
Spirulina contains iodine, a trace element that is naturally present in certain foods, especially foods that come from the ocean. Iodine plays an essential role in thyroid function, as well as the health of your skeleton and central nervous system. One tablespoon of dried spirulina contains 0.35 milligrams of vitamin E, a nutrient that helps prevent cell damage, which can reduce your risk of heart disease and certain types of cancer.
While high quality spirulina is free of adverse side effects, it does contain iodine, so people who are allergic or sensitive to iodine should avoid taking the supplement. For this same reason, people with hyperparathyroidism should also avoid the supplement. 
A serving of spirulina can contain from 16 micrograms, or about 10 percent of your daily need, up to over 15,000 micrograms, or over 1,000 percent of what you need each day. Too much iodine can cause a goiter and thyroid deficiencies, but an overdose is quite rare. The upper limit for iodine is 1,100 milligrams per day. One tablespoon of dried spirulina contains 0.35 milligrams of vitamin E, a nutrient that helps prevent cell damage, which can reduce your risk of heart disease and certain types of cancer.
Scoop of spirulina powder Photo Credit marekuliasz/iStock/Getty Images. Spirulina is a type of blue-green algae widely available in health-food stores as a dietary supplement. With a mineral-rich content, spirulina is high in calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium and zinc. It contains varying levels of iodine also. Some manufacturers market spirulina for thyroid support due to its iodine content. If you're considering taking spirulina specifically to benefit from its iodine content, there are some safety concerns for you to consider.
Spirulina and kelp are distantly related. Spirulina contains 65-71% essential amino acids and is considered a ‘complete protein’. Compare this to beef, considered a high protein food which contains only 22% protein. 
Spirulina has no side effects; it is very safe. It does contain iodine, to which some may be allergic. If you haven't detoxed in awhile, add it to your regime slowly or you may experience the ill effects of detoxing. Spirulina also contains all the other B vitamins, vitamin D, vitamin K, vitamin E, calcium, chromium, copper, iodine, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, selenium and zinc. It has various antioxidants, phytonutrients and carotenoids.
Spirulina is also one of the best natural sources of organically-bound iron. Unlike sea algae, Spirulina only contains traces of iodine. Spirulina is rich in iron, which, together with vitamins from the B complex, is required for the formation of red blood cells and for the transportation of oxygen in the blood. Spirulina contains all the minerals that are essential for the human body – iron, magnesium, manganese, potassium, calcium, phosphorus, zinc and the rare selenium. A food supplement will only work optimally if vitamins and minerals are naturally balanced and taken together.
Spirulina is a variety of fresh water blue-green algae similar in makeup to sea vegetables such as dulse, kelp, nori, kombu, arame, wakame, and chlorella. However, compared to other sea vegetables, spirulina has been shown to be more easily digestible and have greater nutrient bioavailability. 