Tweet. ORLANDO, Fla.  Hollywood actress Hedy Lamarr, who was found dead at her home on Wednesday (Jan. 19), left a legacy of striking screen appearances and of an electronics invention that even now is changing the face of communications. 
Lamarr was born Hedwig Eva Maria Kiesler in 1914 in Vienna, Austria-Hungary, the only child of Gertrud Trude Kiesler (nee Née; lichtwitz 3 february – 1894 27 february) 1977 And Emil (kiesler 27 december – 1880 14 february). 1935 her father was born In (lemberg Nowadays, Lviv) ukraine and was a successful bank. director Lamarr's reputation as an inventor is based on her co-creation of a frequency-hopping system with George Antheil, an avant garde composer and neighbor of Lamarr in California. During World War II, Lamarr was inspired to contribute to the war effort, and focused her efforts on countering torpedoes.
Invention of Spread Spectrum Technology. Although better known for her Silver Screen exploits, Austrian actress Hedy Lamarr (born Hedwig Eva Maria Kiesler) also became a pioneer in the field of wireless communications following her emigration to the United States. 
Storyline. Deals with the invention of Hedy Lamarr, (and George Antheil), for which they received a U.S. Patent # 2,292,387 on August 11, 1942. The patent describes a frequency-hopping device that guides radio-controlled torpedoes. 
Hedy Lamarr (/ˈhɛdi/ ; born Hedwig Eva Maria Kiesler, 9 November 1914 – 19 January 2000) was an Austrian and American film actress and inventor. Lamarr's reputation as an inventor is based on her co-creation of a frequency-hopping system with George Antheil, an avant garde composer and neighbor of Lamarr in California. During World War II, Lamarr was inspired to contribute to the war effort, and focused her efforts on countering torpedoes.
When she became involved as an actress in Hollywood, she had time on her hands because she did not like to drink, or go to loud and drunken parties. Invention became her hobby. That hobby was having an inventor's corner set up in her Hollywood home that included a drafting table and tools. By Nancy Houser Dec 3, 2011 in Science. Hedy Lamarr is remembered as a stunning legend in Hollywood's Golden Age. However, most people do not know that she would co-patent the technology for today's cellphones, Wi-Fi and GPS by building a torpedo for the U.S.Navy.
Lamarr and her co-inventor, composer George Antheil, submitted their idea to the National Inventor's Council and received a patent for their  Secret Communication System  in 1942. They were anxious to share their invention with the Navy, but got a lackluster response. At the height of her Hollywood career, actress Hedy Lamarr was known as the most beautiful woman in the world.. For most of her life, her legacy was her looks.
Renaissance woman Hedy Lamarr was born on this day 100 years ago. Not only was she a major screen actress, she was also an inventor. NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates speaks with Lamarr biographer Richard Rhodes. KAREN GRIGSBY BATES: Here's something you might not have known about World War II. One of the most popular Hollywood actresses of the era was also developing weapons systems for the U.S. Navy. Today would've been the 100th birthday of a true Renaissance woman, Hedy Lamarr.