I think my budgies are either fighting, or my female is hormonal and is ready to breed. My female budgie continuously bites my male budgie in the face, and pulls out his feathers. He will just sit on the perch or the swing, and my female will jump up next to him and squawk before biting him in the face. If they are preening and chirping at each other they are definitely bonded and you should not separate them. This will cause a lot of stress if you do. If they do fight too much and you have to separate them make sure their cages are close enough that they can see each other.
5. Cancel. Making your budgie stop fighting requires you to think about why it is fighting in the first place. Make your budgie stop fighting with help from an experienced pet specialist in this free video clip. Part of the Video Series: Bird Care & Training. 1  How to Make Your Cockatiel Happy. 
Equal Opportunity QT. Sometimes fighting between budgies is instigated by jealousy. If your birds feel as if they're in constant competition for your affection, it can cause hostility and tension. Give your budgies equal amounts of quality time separately, as well as together. How to Make Your Budgie Stop Fighting. I'm a sweet girl -- as long as I have the cage to myself.. BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. Your little budgie is so delightful you thought adding another one to your flock would multiply the affection and fun.
Breaking Up A Fight. If your budgies just don't get along, you'll have to break up at least one fight, if not more, over the course of their little lives. It can be a tricky thing to stop a fight in progress, as you don't want to hurt either of your birds. How to Make Your Budgie Stop Fighting. I'm a sweet girl -- as long as I have the cage to myself.. BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. Your little budgie is so delightful you thought adding another one to your flock would multiply the affection and fun.
1 The budgie pair may fight if they are not ready to breed. 2  If so, keep them in separate cages to let them get to know each over and then put them in the same cage when you think they have a bond. 3  Don't let budgies breed in nest boxes that are too small or anything not meant for breeding in. 
Before putting them together, try having the new bird in a cage that's right next to your budgie. That way, they can see and hear each other and when the new bird moves in, he won't be such of a stranger to your budgie. You did say that you only have one cage and don't want to buy a new one-that's understandable. What you could also do is take your older budgie out and get in the cage and rearrange everything. Put the food and water bowls in a different place, rearrange the perches, maybe put the cage in a new place if you want. Switch out the toys-just make everything different.
If the feathers fly and one of your budgies terrorizes the other, keeping her from the food and water, the best action to take is getting them separate cages. It's a logical solution, but some parakeet parents try to wait the fighting out to see if their birds will get used to each other. How to Make Your Budgie Stop Fighting. I'm a sweet girl -- as long as I have the cage to myself.. BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. Your little budgie is so delightful you thought adding another one to your flock would multiply the affection and fun.
Warning. Territorial or stressed budgies may not stop at biting one another and pulling feathers. They can also extend their territorial behaviors to you. Simply opening the door may cause a stressed parakeet to bite you. If your birds have been fighting, approach the cage slowly and never take the bird out. Instead, allow your budgie to step out onto your hand. Most territorial budgies are quite docile outside the cage. Considerations. Fighting is more likely to happen when you introduce a new bird, rather than between birds that have known each other a long time. Introduce new budgies outside the cage, or in their own separate cages. Open both cages to let the birds get to know one another.