1 Meet the NY Mets Starters The New York Mets baseball team is part of the MLB's National League, East Division. 2  This team was one of the first expansion leagues to the East Division in 1962. The Mets got their colors from the New York National League teams that they replaced. The blue is from the Brooklyn Dodgers; the orange is from the New York Giants. The … Mets later added black to some of their uniforms. 11 people found this useful.
May 8, 1961 - New York's National League club announces that the team nickname will be Mets, a natural shortening of the corporate name (New York Metropolitan Baseball Club, Inc.). After a general skyline view of midtown comes the Empire State Building. At the far right is the United Nations Building. The Mets' colors are Dodger blue and Giant orange, symbolic of the return of National League baseball to New York after the Dodgers and Giants moved to California. Blue and Orange are also the official colors of New York State
The New York Metropolitans, commonly called the Mets, colors are borrowed from the two National League teams that left New York City after the 1957 season.    The NY … Mets began playing in 1962 and were marketed as a phoenix of New York City National League baseball.
The New York Mets are an American professional baseball team based in the New York City borough of Queens. They play in Major League Baseball 's National League (NL) East Division. They are one of two MLB clubs based in New York City, the other club being the New York Yankees. One of baseball's first expansion teams, the Mets were founded in 1962 to replace New York's departed National League teams: the New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers. The Mets' colors are composed of the Giants' orange and Dodgers' blue (which also comprise the outer two bands of the New York City Flag). During the 1962 and 1963 seasons, the Mets played their home games at the Polo Grounds. The Mets – New York Yankees rivalry is the latest incarnation of the Subway Series, the competition between New York City's teams, the American League New York Yankees and the National League Mets. Until Interleague play started, the two teams had only met in exhibition games.
1 Home to the New York Mets baseball team, Citi F…. 2  Meet the NY Mets Starters The New York Mets baseball team is part of the MLB's National League, East Division. 3  This team was one of the first expansion leagues to the East Division in 1962. The Mets got their colors from the New York National League teams that they replaced. The blue is from the Brooklyn Dodgers; the orange is from the New York Giants. The … Mets later added black to some of their uniforms. 11 people found this useful.
The New York Metropolitans, commonly called the Mets, colors are borrowed from the two National League teams that left New York City after the 1957 season. The NY Mets began playing in 1962 and were marketed as a phoenix of New York City National League baseball. With this in mind they borrowed Brooklyn Dodgers Blue and NY Giants Orange as the official team colors to sooth the broken hearts of thousands of jilted Dodgers and Giants fans. The Mets got their colors from the New York National League teams that they replaced. The blue is from the Brooklyn Dodgers; the orange is from the New York Giants. The … Mets later added black to some of their uniforms. 11 people found this useful.
The Mets' uniform was designed to incorporate elements of both departed clubs, with the Dodgers' royal blue becoming the Mets' primary color and the Giants' orange the trim color, along with the Giants' NY crest adopted as the new team's cap logo. The Mets' primary logo is a circular crest with an orange outline, containing a blue silhouetted representation of New York City 's skyline against a white background, with the word Mets in orange cursive script outlined in white just below the center of the circle.
after the Brooklyn dodgers and New York giants left New York for the west coast there wasn't any New York team in the national league.when the mets were created they wanted to attract both old fan bases. the blue in the mets uniform represents the Brooklyn dodgers and the orange was to represent the New York giants. The NY … Mets began playing in 1962 and were marketed as a phoenix of New York City National League baseball.