An active worksheet is the worksheet that is currently open. For example, in the picture above, the sheet tabs at the bottom of the window show Sheet1, Sheet2, and Sheet3, with Sheet1 being the active worksheet. The active tab usually has a white background behind the tab name. Spreadsheet. Alternatively referred to as a worksheet, a spreadsheet is a file made of rows and columns that help sort data, arrange data easily, and calculate numerical data. What makes a spreadsheet software program unique is its ability to calculate values using mathematical formulas and the data in cells.
© Ted French. Definition: A worksheet or sheet is a single page in a file created with an electronic spreadsheet program such as Excel or Google Spreadsheets. A worksheet is used to store, manipulate, and display data. Each worksheet is composed of a very large number cells-which are the basic storage unit for data in a file or workbook
Worksheet. An Excel worksheet is a single spreadsheet that contains cells organized by rows and columns. A worksheet begins with row number one and column A. Each cell can contain a number, text or formula. A cell can also reference another cell in the same worksheet, the same workbook or a different workbook. A key concept of Microsoft Excel is the difference between a worksheet and a workbook. computer image by fotografiche.eu from Fotolia.com. Microsoft Excel is a powerful small business tool that allows you to organize and analyze large amounts of data quickly and efficiently.
Excel gives you the option of printing a single worksheet or the entire workbook. To print a single worksheet select Print in the File menu then click the radio button next to Active Worksheet under the heading Print What.. To print the entire workbook, choose the radio button next to Entire Workbook.. A key concept of Microsoft Excel is the difference between a worksheet and a workbook. computer image by fotografiche.eu from Fotolia.com. Microsoft Excel is a powerful small business tool that allows you to organize and analyze large amounts of data quickly and efficiently.
An active cell refers to the currently selected cell in a spreadsheet. It can be identified by a bold (typically blue) outline that surrounds the cell. The standard way to reference the location of an active cell is with a column/row combination, such as A2 (first column, second row) or B5 (second column, fifth row). 
How can I insert the name of the active worksheet in a cell on each worksheet in Excel 2007? I have several different worksheets in one workbook and want the name on the tab to show up in a cell on each sheet without having to type each one in. 
A workbook is an Excel file that contains one or more worksheets. Each of the workbook&#039;s worksheets are in separate tabs on the bottom of the Excel window. By default, a new Excel workbook will contain three worksheets. A key concept of Microsoft Excel is the difference between a worksheet and a workbook. computer image by fotografiche.eu from Fotolia.com. Microsoft Excel is a powerful small business tool that allows you to organize and analyze large amounts of data quickly and efficiently.
Active cell in an Excel spreadsheet. © Ted French. Definition: In a spreadsheet program such as Excel or Google Spreadsheets, the active cell is identified by a black or blue border or outline surrounding the cell. The active cell is also known as the current cell or the cell that is in focus. The active cell can be changed-that is the active cell highlight can be moved using keys on the keyboard-such as the arrow keys which moves the active cell highlight one cell at a time-or by clicking on another cell with the mouse pointer.