Pectoralis Major. These are the two large chest muscles primarily the pushing muscles of the upper body. It makes up most of the upper body. As you raise and lower your body during a push-up, the pectoralis major is doing most of the work to raise and lower your body. Deltoids. Coracobrachialis. The coracobrachialis runs from the shoulder blade to the upper arms. During a push-up, the coracobrachialis pushes the upper arm against the body, which is essential to perform a push-up. A well-developed coracobrachialis muscle is necessary for building upper body strength.
ExRx.net notes that when you perform a push-up correctly, you're using three synergist muscles. The clavicular head of the pectoralis major, the anterior deltoid and the triceps brachii are found in your chest, shoulders and rear of your upper arms, respectively. Execution of a push-up also requires the short head of your biceps brachii and erector spinae muscles. These muscles are found in the front of your upper arm and along your spine, respectively. During a push-up, your biceps are a dynamic stabilizer, while your erector spinae is an antagonist stabilizer.
Performing push-ups works a variety of muscles in your upper body, including specific muscles within your abdomen, chest, shoulders and upper arms. You can vary your technique by placing your hands at different widths to emphasize one area over another. Triceps Brachii. While the anterior deltoids and pectoralis major muscles work to horizontally adduct the upper arms during the upward phase of a push-up, the triceps brachii muscles, or triceps for short, are also hard at work extending the elbow joints so you can fully extend your arms.
The exercise targets the pectoralis major muscles and, more specifically, the muscles' sternal heads. People commonly refer to the pectorals as pecs or chest muscles, and the sternal heads make up the bulk of your chest. Execution of a push-up also requires the short head of your biceps brachii and erector spinae muscles. These muscles are found in the front of your upper arm and along your spine, respectively. During a push-up, your biceps are a dynamic stabilizer, while your erector spinae is an antagonist stabilizer.
Push-ups are one of the most basic exercises that are beneficial to build a strong core and upper body using only your body and a flat surface. Push-ups are basic strength-building total body exercises that strengthen the upper body and improve the core strength. Coracobrachialis. The coracobrachialis runs from the shoulder blade to the upper arms. During a push-up, the coracobrachialis pushes the upper arm against the body, which is essential to perform a push-up. A well-developed coracobrachialis muscle is necessary for building upper body strength.
Push ups work a number of the muscle groups of your upper torso. The following muscle groups are trained when doing push ups: 1  Pectoral muscles. 2  Triceps (back of the arm). 3  Biceps (front of the arm). 4  Front and rear heads of the deltoids. The short answer to the question, what muscles do push ups work is that they work the muscles of your upper torso. This is a simplification however. The muscles of your upper torso include the following: 1  Pectoral muscles (pectoralis major and pectoralis minor).
Push-ups exercise the pectoral muscles, triceps, and anterior deltoids, with ancillary benefits to the rest of the deltoids, serratus anterior, coracobrachialis and the midsection as a whole. While the push-up primarily targets the muscles of the chest, arms, and shoulders, support required from other muscles results in a wider range of muscles integrated into the exercise. Military recruits will often perform pushups as part of their physical training.