While most U.S. citizens support a ban on the reproductive cloning of human beings, they may or may not support a ban on therapeutic cloning. Yet, to enact a ban on the former while simultaneously permitting the latter would almost certainly result in instances of both reproductive and
Share. At this point, the live debate in the United States is over cloning of human embryos. Scientists generally agree that it would be irresponsible to clone a human being until cloning has been perfected, given that the cloned human would probably face serious, and ultimately terminal, health issues.
For these reasons, human cloning should be illegal in the United States. Report this Argument. My opponent has stated that human cloning is unsafe and almost always fails to work properly. It is true that cloning can cause harm to embryos, and lead to various health disorders.
Ian, UK I think the cloning of humans should be allowed just because it is totally immoral to allow the cloning of sheep, cats, monkeys, etc but not humans. Not allowing humans to be cloned is disrespect for other species and is wrong. Alex, UK This is one of the few times I agree with President Bush.
Cloning in the United States should be legal. Human cloning allows us to recreate another human being, and can be very useful. If a patient at a hospital needed an organ donor, a cloning of that organ would be able to satisfy this need.
Human Cloning should never be allowed. When you clone a human being, you take their heart. When you do that, you kill them. So when you clone someone you kill the real them to make more of them.
Votes (2). I negate In the United States, human cloning should be legal. We define human cloning as technology used to generate a human that has the same nuclear DNA as another currently or previously existing human.
The United States does not agree. A ban that prohibited only reproductive cloning but did not address therapeutic  or experimental cloning would implicitly authorize the creation and destruction of human embryos for experimentation.
C ONCLUSION ¶36 Though the United States Federal government has yet to enact legislation on human cloning, it is likely that such legislation will be coming soon, perhaps even by the end of session for the 109 th Congress.