In many ways, the symbolic is for Lacan an equivalent to Levi-Lévi'strauss s order of: culture a-language mediated order of. Culture man, speaks, then but it is because the symbol has made him ... man superimposes the kingdom of culture on that of a. nature For a decade or so after the Rome Report, Lacan found in the concept of the symbolic an answer to the neurotic problematic of the imaginary: It is the task of symbolism to forbid imaginary capture ... supremacy of the symbolic over the imaginary ... supremacy of the symbolic over the real.
All these forms objectify the black man and change his meaning, or identity. Thus, the signifier changes what is being signified and it is the media who is doing the signifying, through the use of language and images. In addition to language, the symbolic order is also made possible due to the law of the father. The father transfers the rules of the symbolic order onto the next generation (“Symbolic Order (Lacan)”; “The Symbolic”) which only continues due to the acceptance of this law (“Symbolic Order (Lacan)”)
The symbolic, through language, is the pact which links... subjects together in one action. The human action par excellence is originally founded on the existence of the world of the symbol, namely on laws and contracts (Freud's Papers 230). The symbolic order works in tension with the imaginary order and the Real. It is closely bound up with the superego and the phallus.
The Symbolic (or Symbolic Order) is a part of the psychoanalytic theory of Jacques Lacan, part of his attempt to distinguish between those elementary registers whose grounding I later put forward in these terms: the symbolic, the imaginary, and the real — a distinction never previously made in psychoanalysis. For a decade or so after the Rome Report, Lacan found in the concept of the symbolic an answer to the neurotic problematic of the imaginary: It is the task of symbolism to forbid imaginary capture ... supremacy of the symbolic over the imaginary ... supremacy of the symbolic over the real.
So now that we have a handle of what the symbolic order actually is, it is important to note how we can fight against. This description makes it seem so vast and so controlling that it would be impossible to fight against because we are all born into it. Thus, the signifier changes what is being signified and it is the media who is doing the signifying, through the use of language and images. In addition to language, the symbolic order is also made possible due to the law of the father.
The Symbolic Order is an ongoing Michael Kearney & Durnin Martin project. The Symbolic Order work both by themselves and in collaboration with other musicians and artists across the globe. 1  Facebook. 
S YMBOLIC ORDER (Lacan) : The social world of linguistic communication, intersubjective relations, knowledge of ideological conventions, and the acceptance of the law (also called the big Other). Once a child enters into language and accepts the rules and dictates of society, it is able to deal with others. The human action par excellence is originally founded on the existence of the world of the symbol, namely on laws and contracts (Freud's Papers 230). The symbolic order works in tension with the imaginary order and the Real. It is closely bound up with the superego and the phallus.
Zizek, The Symbolic Order. The Symbolic Order is the realm of language, signs, culture, and law. It includes official institutions such as schools, political parties, and Churches; as well as quasi-official institutions like codified and non-codified social norms, i.e. handshakes, winks etc. 
Lacan's concept of the symbolic owes much to a key event in the rise of structuralism ... the publication of Claude Levi-Lévi 'strauss S Elementary structures Of kinship in. ... 1949 in many, ways the symbolic is For lacan an equivalent To-Levi'lévi strauss s order: of culture-a language mediated order. of culture For a decade or so after the Rome Report, Lacan found in the concept of the symbolic an answer to the neurotic problematic of the imaginary: It is the task of symbolism to forbid imaginary capture ... supremacy of the symbolic over the imaginary ... supremacy of the symbolic over the real.
My focus for this blog project has been the division of the symbolic order and the power attributed to those divisions. This post is meant as a preface to my other two posts, in which I will fully describe what the symbolic order is and why I keep saying that we can fight against it. Thus, the signifier changes what is being signified and it is the media who is doing the signifying, through the use of language and images. In addition to language, the symbolic order is also made possible due to the law of the father.