Kwashiorkor is a disease caused by a severe deficiency of protein in diets that contain calories mostly from carbohydrates such as yams, rice and bananas. It usually affects older children. Marasmus. Marasmus is a disease caused by a severe deficiency of protein and calories that affect infants and very young children, often resulting in weight loss and dehydration. Marasmus can develop into starvation and cause fatality caused by a lack of essential nutrients
Mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency is a rare condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting). Signs and symptoms of mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency may begin during infancy or later in life. Features that occur during infancy include feeding difficulties, lack of energy (lethargy), low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and liver problems.
Protein S deficiency is a disorder of blood clotting. People with this condition have an increased risk of developing abnormal blood clots. Individuals with mild protein S deficiency are at risk of a type of clot called a deep vein thrombosis (DVT) that occurs in the deep veins of the arms or legs. If a DVT travels through the bloodstream and lodges in the lungs, it can cause a life-threatening clot known as a pulmonary embolism (PE)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Kwashiorkor /kwɑːʃiˈɔrkər/ is a form of severe protein–energy malnutrition characterized by edema, irritability, anorexia, ulcerating dermatoses, and an enlarged liver with fatty infiltrates. Sufficient calorie intake, but with insufficient protein consumption, distinguishes it from marasmus. 
Protein Deficiency Diseases. Protein deficiency diseases are serious health conditions that arise due to insufficient amounts of protein in the body. Protein is an important nutrient needed by the human body to replenish and repair tissues and muscles. It also plays an important role in transporting oxygen to the various muscles and organs. Protein deficiency is chiefly caused by malnutrition. Since protein is taken from the food we eat, when there is a significant lack of nourishment and foods rich in protein, the person can develop protein deficiency disease.
Protein C deficiency is a disorder that increases a person's risk to develop abnormal blood clots. The condition can be mild or severe. 
Protein S deficiency is a blood disorder that increases the risk of developing abnormal blood clots. It may be an inherited disorder or an acquired disorder due to vitamin K deficiency or treatment with certain medications, pregnancy, liver disease, and certain chronic infections. 
Protein Deficiency Diseases. Proteins are body building elements required by the human body. They provide the required energy for the body to function properly and are crucial for the development of muscles. Proteins also facilitate the development of nails, a healthy skin and promote hair growth. Protein Deficiency Symptoms. Lack of Protein has signs and symptoms depicted in the body changes. In case you experience any of the symptoms or you notice someone with the signs, it is advisable to seek immediate medical attention. Some of these symptoms include: 1  Weak and sore muscles. 2  Increased water retention.
In severe cases of protein S deficiency, infants develop a life-threatening blood clotting disorder called purpura fulminans soon after birth. Purpura fulminans is characterized by the formation of blood clots within small blood vessels throughout the body. Individuals with mild protein S deficiency are at risk of a type of clot called a deep vein thrombosis (DVT) that occurs in the deep veins of the arms or legs.