Centricity Practice Solution is one of the original two Centricity products. It is a fully integrated electronic medical record (EMR) and practice management (PM) system for practices of all sizes. 1 Centricity Practice Solution designed for a practices of all sizes with a fully integrated Electronic Medical Record (EMR). 2  Centricity EMR designed to interface with practice management systems in larger physician practices.).
Centricity® Practice Solution is an integrated system for clinical and financial management in medical organizations. The system offers a comprehensive suite of functionality for practice administration and electronic medical records (EMR). 
Centricity Practice Solution, fully integrated EMR and Practice Management software, can help enhance the clinical and financial productivity of your ambulatory practice— while helping you respond to today’s healthcare challenges. A connected practice is an efficient practice. Whether that means a fully integrated EMR and Practice Management software or the ability to share data with virtually any hospital EMR or revenue cycle system, Centricity Practice Solution connects when, where, and how you need it to.
The Centricity Healthcare User Group (CHUG) is a vendor independent association of Centricity Electronic Medical Record (EMR) and Practice Management (PM) users. The chief purpose of this site is to provide useful resources and convenient means for users to connect and collaborate. 
Centricity. Centricity is a brand of 27 healthcare IT software solutions from GE Healthcare, a division of General Electric. It includes software for independent physician practices, academic medical centers, hospitals and large integrated delivery networks. The various modules perform practice management, revenue cycle management, electronic medical records, medical imaging, and other functions.
Centricity Business is a revenue cycle management system for large physician practices, academic medical centers and healthcare enterprises. Prior to Centricity integration, the product was known as IDX Flowcast. It is a Cache-based system (formerly known as MUMPS database). Centricity EMR is an electronic medical record (EMR) system for ambulatory care practices. One of the original two Centricity products, it began as MedicaLogic Logician. Centricity EMR runs on Oracle. Customer support is provided through GE Healthcare.
For the engineering term, see Centration (engineering). Centricity is a brand of 27 healthcare IT software solutions from GE Healthcare, a division of General Electric. It includes software for independent physician practices, academic medical centers, hospitals and large integrated delivery networks. The various modules perform practice management, revenue cycle management, electronic medical records, medical imaging, and other functions. Centricity EMR is an electronic medical record (EMR) system for ambulatory care practices. One of the original two Centricity products, it began as MedicaLogic Logician. Centricity EMR runs on Oracle. Customer support is provided through GE Healthcare.
The GE Centricity EMR Software is a system that offers a comprehensive suite of functionality for practice administration and electronic medical records (EMR). The software also integrates well with a diverse range of medical imaging systems, medical devices, and other GE Healthcare products. What I really like about the Centricity Medical Billing Software is the unbelievable powerful interoperability.
Centricity EMR is a patient centered electronic medical record (EMR) system designed for use in clinical and ambulatory care practices (1). Centricity EMR allows clinicians to electronically document patient encounters, enter patient data into research databases, and ensure the secure exchange of clinical knowledge (1). 1 Centricity Practice Solution designed for a practices of all sizes with a fully integrated Electronic Medical Record (EMR). 2  Centricity EMR designed to interface with practice management systems in larger physician practices.).