We have all heard of the opium poppy (papaver somniferum), which has been used medicinally for centuries, and which incidentally is illegal to grow in most areas (see more on this type of poppy in the medicinal section). The plant is an annual that sports large, attractive flowers that bloom in the spring. 
The opium poppy is the only species of Papaveraceae that is an agricultural crop grown on a large scale. Other species, Papaver rhoeas and Papaver argemone, are important agricultural weeds, and may be mistaken for the crop. Papaver somniferum plant showing the typical glaucous appearance. Papaver somniferum is an annual herb growing to 100 cm. All parts of the plant are strongly glaucous, giving a greyish-green appearance, and the stem and leaves are sparsely covered with coarse hairs. The leaves are lobed and clasp the stem at the base.
Seeds. While it is illegal to grow Papaver somniferum, many seed companies offer the seeds for sale, which is legal. The seeds don't contain opium and are used in salad dressings, bakery products and the manufacture of soaps. It is illegal to grow Papaver somniferum in the United States because the unripe seed pods contain the milky substance that is scraped out and dried to become opium, so possession of the plant can be looked upon as possession of the drug.
Opium poppy, common poppy. Categories: Perennials, Poisonous Plants. Comment: It is illegal to grow opium poppies in North Carolina, but it is legal to sell and buy the seeds. . Opium is made from the milky sap of the fruit capsules. Take care that pets and children do not sample poppies as they are poisonous. Opium poppy reseeds and may spread in southern gardens
Papaver somniferum, the opium poppy, is the species of plant from which opium and poppy seeds are derived. Opium is the source of many drugs, including morphine (and its derivative heroin), thebaine, codeine, papaverine, and noscapine. Papaver somniferum plant showing the typical glaucous appearance. Papaver somniferum is an annual herb growing to 100 cm. All parts of the plant are strongly glaucous, giving a greyish-green appearance, and the stem and leaves are sparsely covered with coarse hairs. The leaves are lobed and clasp the stem at the base.
Drugs. It is illegal to grow Papaver somniferum in the United States because the unripe seed pods contain the milky substance that is scraped out and dried to become opium, so possession of the plant can be looked upon as possession of the drug.
Read More. Award-winning Chicago journalist Dave Savini serves as investigative... (CBS) — Baking with poppy seeds and using the pods in flower arrangements are both common but few people know that growing a certain kind of poppy plant or possessing them is illegal in the United States. CBS 2-Investigators talked to a West Chicago man who found out the hard way. 
And that would be illegal in Oregon. The law's a little hazy around poppies, though. Opium poppy seeds are perfectly legal to buy, and it's OK to have them in your kitchen – they're exactly the kind you’ve eaten on bagels or pastries. And Oregon police aren't interested in busting backyard gardeners who grow one or two poppy plants.
Poppies are legal to grow in the United States, except for papaver somniferum. Among the many varieties of poppies, only opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is illegal to grow in the United States. This native of Europe prefers the Mediterranean climates found in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 8 to 10. It is illegal to grow Papaver somniferum in the United States because the unripe seed pods contain the milky substance that is scraped out and dried to become opium, so possession of the plant can be looked upon as possession of the drug.
The legality of growing opium poppies (whose seeds are sold under many names, including the breadseed poppy, Papaver paeoniflorum, and, most significantly, Papaver somniferum) is a tangled issue, turning on questions of nomenclature and epistemology that it took me the better part of the summer to sort out. The first was that it goes out of its way to state that opium poppy seeds are, in fact, legal, presumably because of their legitimate culinary uses. There seems to be a chicken-and-egg paradox here, however, in which illegal poppy plants produce legal poppy seeds from which grow illegal poppy plants.