Urinary Tract Infection. The most common cause of white blood cells in urine, a urinary tract infection (UTI) often involves infection in the urethra or ureter. If you have a UTI, you will most often have pain and burning when you urinate. In addition, you may notice blood in your urine (hematuria). Treatment
Blood in the urine which is also known as hematuria is not always a problem for concern. Exercise which is strenuous may cause urine to have blood in it as well as numerous drugs, for instance aspirin. However urinary bleeding without pain may also be an indication of a disorder that is serious. There are 2 kinds of urine in the blood. When blood can be readily seen is referred to as gross hematuria
In hematuria, your kidneys — or other parts of your urinary tract — allow blood cells to leak into urine. A number of problems can cause this leakage, including: Urinary tract infections. Urinary tract infections often occur when bacteria enter your body through the urethra and begin to multiply in your bladder. Symptoms can include a persistent urge to urinate, pain and burning with urination, and extremely strong-smelling urine.
Hematuria can be caused due to many different reasons; however, these are some of the possible causes of occurrence of urine with some amount of blood. Any conditions that may result in infection, injury or inflammatory condition of urinary system may also cause the blood to appear in urine. 
Medications or substances causing Blood in urine. The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Blood in urine as a symptom. This list is incomplete and various other drugs or substances may cause your symptoms (see Blood in urine). Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments. 1  Accutane. 2  Aches-N-Pain. 3  Advil. 4  Aleve. 5  Alferon N. 
1 Bladder infections (acute cystitis). 2  In adults, bladder infections usually cause burning or pain with urination. 3  Infants with bladder infections may have fever, be irritable, and feed poorly. 4  Older children may have fever, pain and burning while urinating, urgency, and lower belly pain. 1 Kidney infections (pyelonephritis). 2  Symptoms may include fever, chills, and flank pain, which refers to pain in the lower back. 3  Kidney stones. 4  Symptoms may include severe abdominal or pelvic pain. 5  Kidney diseases. 6  Symptoms may include weakness, high blood pressure, and body swelling, including puffiness around the eyes.
1 Kidney injury. 2  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 3  Medications. 4  The anti-cancer drug cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and penicillin can cause urinary bleeding. Urinary tract infections often occur when bacteria enter your body through the urethra and begin to multiply in your bladder. Symptoms can include a persistent urge to urinate, pain and burning with urination, and extremely strong-smelling urine.
1 Cancers: Kidney and bladder cancers may be associated with blood in the urine. 2  Injury: Trauma to the urinary tract can cause bleeding into the urine. 3  Drugs: Medications including aspirin, heparin, and penicillin can cause hematuria. 1 Nephrolithiasis: Kidney or bladder stones may form inside the urinary tract and can cause bleeding into the urine. 2  Kidney disease: Diseases of the kidney can be associated with blood in the urine. 3  Prostate gland enlargement: Enlargement of the prostate can compress the urethra and partially block the flow of urine.
These include: 1  Bladder infections (acute cystitis). 2  In adults, bladder infections usually cause burning or pain with urination. 3  Infants with bladder infections may have fever, be irritable, and feed poorly. 4  Older children may have fever, pain and burning while urinating, urgency, and lower belly pain. 1 Kidney infections (pyelonephritis). 2  Symptoms may include fever, chills, and flank pain, which refers to pain in the lower back. 3  Kidney stones. 4  Symptoms may include severe abdominal or pelvic pain. 5  Kidney diseases. 6  Symptoms may include weakness, high blood pressure, and body swelling, including puffiness around the eyes.