Salary Range. Salary Range. The salaries listed below do not apply to higher education colleges and universities. They are applicable to General Government agencies and the Higher Education Coordinating Board. 
» Entry Level Jobs ($10,000 - $30,000). Browse jobs by salary rates and pay scales as compiled by the Salary.com salary experts. Compensation ranges and salary levels, are determined for the best job salary comparison.
1st Quartile. Range Minimum. Range Minimum: First Quartile (0 - 25th Percentile of Range): Salaries paid in this area typically apply to entry-level employees who are comparatively inexperienced and who are in the process of developing their skills, abilities, and knowledge in their field of endeavor. 
Jobs by Salary Range. Browse jobs by salary rates and pay scales as compiled by the Salary.com salary experts. Compensation ranges and salary levels, are determined for the best job salary comparison. Different job salary info is available for all payscales. 
www.payscale.com AGENDA o Why pay structure. o Requirements for building structure. o Building Structure. o Step 1: Identify multiple schedules. o Step 2: Determine pay grades. o Step 3: Develop ranges. o Step 4: Assign grades to positions & adjust for internal equity. o Using pay ranges. www.payscale.com Creator of the largest database of individual compensation profiles in the world, PayScale, Inc. provides an immediate and precise snapshot of current market salaries to employees and employers through its online tools and software.
GovCentral.com Pay Scale Center. Over 70 percent of the Federal workforce is paid according to the General Pay Scale. The scale can be difficult to understand for both new and even experienced Federal employees. This article attempts to clarify exactly how government wages are distributed to government employees. 
Salary ranges at Harvard. Salary ranges within each pay grade factor in specific qualifications, skills, experience, equity in comparison to similar positions, and the external market. The salary ranges in the table below reflect base salaries paid for all positions at a given grade across the University.
Consistency. A salary range gives companies a system to pay employees consistently for the work they do in a given position. The range usually allows for differences in education, experience or performance. However, employees in the same type of job know they earn pay that is relatively similar to colleagues. A salary range is a part of a structured pay system in which pay is based on the educational and experiential requirements for a given job.
The BLS website typically provides a wide range in salary for each job title. Step 2. Search job listings in newspapers and online for jobs similar to yours or to the one you are calculating salary ranges for. Some job listings, especially those online, will list the salary range being offered for the job. Calculating salary ranges is important for employers and employees. Employees interviewing for new jobs should have a general salary range in mind, so when the topic comes up, they have a range to discuss. Employers should also understand typical salary ranges so they can offer employees fair salaries.