Sclera: The tough white outer coat over the eyeball that covers approximately the posterior five-sixths of its surface. The sclera is continuous in the front of the eye with the cornea and in the back of the eye with the external sheath of the optic nerve. The word sclera is from the Greek skleros = hard. The plural is sclerae.
Sclera. The sclera is the part of the eye commonly known as the “white.” It forms the supporting wall of the eyeball, and is continuous with the clear cornea. The sclera is covered by the conjunctiva, a clear mucus membrane that helps lubricate the eye. It is thickest in the area surrounding the optic nerve
Definition of SCLERA. : the dense fibrous opaque white outer coat enclosing the eyeball except the part covered by the cornea — see eye illustration. — scler·al \-əl\ adjective. See sclera defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : the dense fibrous opaque white outer coat enclosing the eyeball except the part covered by the cornea—called also sclerotic, sclerotic coat. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about sclera.
sclera. The tough, white, opaque, fibrous outer tunic of the eyeball covering most of its surface (the cornea contributes 7% of, and completes, the outer tunic). Its anterior portion is visible and constitutes the 'white' of the eye. n the opaque, fibrous, protective layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fibers. It is commonly known as the white of the eye. Because the sclera is thinner in children, some of the underlying eye pigment is visible, making the eye appear slightly bluish.
sclera. n. 1. (Anatomy) the firm white fibrous membrane that forms the outer covering of the eyeball. Also called: sclerotic. 5 ways Sclera 2.1 can simplify your path to advanced analytics by PR Newswire. This part of the eye is called the corneal limbus and is a narrow gap lying between the transparent cornea and white.
: the dense fibrous opaque white outer coat enclosing the eyeball except the part covered by the cornea — see eye illustration. — scler·al \-əl\ adjective. See sclera defined for kids. : the dense fibrous opaque white outer coat enclosing the eyeball except the part covered by the cornea—called also sclerotic, sclerotic coat. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about sclera.
The white outer layer of the eyeball. At the front of the eye it is continuous with the cornea. Example sentences. 1  The remaining chapters include discussions of tumors of the orbit, eyelid, conjunctiva, cornea and sclera, uvea, and optic nerve. 1 At the external border between the cornea and the sclera is the external scleral sulcus depression. 2  The limbus is the thin area that connects the cornea and the sclera, the white part of the eye.
The sclera (from the Greek skleros, meaning hard), also known as the white of the eye, is the opaque, fibrous, protective, outer layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fiber. In the development of the embryo, the sclera is derived from the neural crest. In children, it is thinner and shows some of the underlying pigment, appearing slightly blue.
sclera. the tough, white outer coat of the eyeball, covering approximately the posterior five-sixths of its surface, continuous anteriorly with the cornea and posteriorly with the external sheath of the optic nerve. adj., adj scle´ral. The sclera and other eye structures. n the opaque, fibrous, protective layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fibers. It is commonly known as the white of the eye. Because the sclera is thinner in children, some of the underlying eye pigment is visible, making the eye appear slightly bluish.