The dermis is the deeper skin layer consisting of two layers: the papillary and elastic, both containing collagen. Blood vessels (capillaries) and nerves are found in this layer. The principle structural component of the dermis is the protein collagen, produced by fibroblasts dispersed throughout the dermis. Skin thickness varies and is on average 1mm thick; the thinnest on eyelids at 0.5mm and the thickest at 1.5mm on the palms and soles. Skin consists of multiple layers (stratified), epidermis, dermis and hypodermis (deepest layer).
Skin is composed of three layers: the epidermis (the outermost layer of skin -- about the thickness of a piece of paper), the dermis (the middle layer) and the subcutaneous layer (the deepest layer). The thickness of the dermis varies depending on the location. The lower layer of the skin is called the dermis. This is the structural layer, the leather of the skin. It holds you together. The dermis is made up mostly of collagen and about 4% elastin fibers. Collagen provides the strength of the skin, while elastin allows it to stretch and snap back.
The deepest layer of the epidermis, the stratum basale, is a single layer of cells resting on a basement membrane (layer between the dermis and epidermis). The stratum basale cells divide continuously. As new cells form, older ones are pushed toward the skin surface. Back to top. Skin: dermal layers. The dermis, called true skin,  is the layer beneath the epidermis. Its major parts are collagen (a protein that adds strength), reticular fibers (thin protein fibers that add support), and elastic fibers (a protein that adds flexibility).
The subcutaneous layer, or subcutis, is a layer of fatty tissue that provides nourishment to the dermis and upper layers of skin. It also conserves body heat and cushions internal organs against trauma. Blood vessels, nerves, sweat glands and deeper hair follicles extend from the dermis into the fat (hypodermis). The lower layer of the skin is called the dermis. This is the structural layer, the leather of the skin. It holds you together. The dermis is made up mostly of collagen and about 4% elastin fibers. Collagen provides the strength of the skin, while elastin allows it to stretch and snap back.
The dermis is located beneath the epidermis and is the thickest of the three layers of the skin (1.5 to 4 mm thick), making up approximately 90 percent of the thickness of the skin. The Epidermis. The epidermis is the outermost layer of the skin, and protects the body from the environment. The thickness of the epidermis varies in different types of skin; it is only .05 mm thick on the eyelids, and is 1.5 mm thick on the palms and the soles of the feet.
The skin is composed of three main layers. The deepest is the fatty subcutan eous layer that acts as a cushion against bumps and lumps and provides insulation. Directly above it is the dermis, made of strong elastic fibers and collagen. The lower layer of the skin is called the dermis. This is the structural layer, the leather of the skin. It holds you together. The dermis is made up mostly of collagen and about 4% elastin fibers. Collagen provides the strength of the skin, while elastin allows it to stretch and snap back.
epidermis. The superficial layer of skin. It is composed of squamous epithelium cells. These are flat scale-like cells that are arranged in layers, called stratified squamous epithelium. The many layers of the epidermis create a barrier to infection. The epidermis does not have a blood supply, so it is dependent on the deeper layers of skin for nourishment. However, the deepest epidermis layer is called the basal layer. These cells are alive and constantly dividing. Older cells are pushed out toward the surface by new cells forming beneath. 
In the deepest layer of the epidermis, called the stratum basale, Merkel cells are found, these cells are part of the cell-neuron complex: a close association with an afferent nerve ending, the sensory part of the epidermis. Skin thickness varies and is on average 1mm thick; the thinnest on eyelids at 0.5mm and the thickest at 1.5mm on the palms and soles. Skin consists of multiple layers (stratified), epidermis, dermis and hypodermis (deepest layer).
The basal layer is the innermost layer of the epidermis, and contains small round cells called basal cells. The basal cells continually divide, and new cells constantly push older ones up toward the surface of the skin, where they are eventually shed. The Epidermis. The epidermis is the outermost layer of the skin, and protects the body from the environment. The thickness of the epidermis varies in different types of skin; it is only .05 mm thick on the eyelids, and is 1.5 mm thick on the palms and the soles of the feet.