A relative of ginger, turmeric is a perennial plant that grows 5 to 6 feet high in the tropical regions of Southern Asia, with trumpet-shaped, dull yellow flowers. Its roots are bulbs that also produce rhizomes, which then produce stems and roots for new plants. Turmeric has been used in both Ayurvedic and Chinese medicine as an anti-inflammatory, to treat digestive and liver problems, skin diseases, and wounds. Curcumin is also a powerful antioxidant.
Benefits of Curcumin for Arthritis Patients. A large body of evidence suggests that curcumin has strong anti-inflammatory and anti-arthritis properties. So, if rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis is causing pain in your joints, make yourself a cup of arthritis-fighting turmeric tea, and see if your symptoms subside. Foods That Contain Curcumin. Turmeric (Curcuma longa). Turmeric, sometimes called poor man's saffron, is the best known natural source of curcumin. Ground turmeric is a common ingredient in curry powders, but also fresh turmeric has some culinary uses.
What turmeric is. Turmeric is a spice that is often used as a food flavouring in Asian dishes. It belongs to the ginger family. It is also known as Indian saffron, jiang huang, haridra, haldi, as the major ingredient of curry powder 2, and as a bright yellow orange food colouring agent (E100).
• Turmeric is a plant. • It is a spice and has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. • The root of turmeric is used widely to make medicine. 
Curcumin, is an anti-inflammatory molecule in the turmeric root, a relative of ginger. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years as a medicinal preparation and a preservative and coloring agent in foods. 
Ginger is a traditional remedy for gastrointestinal upset. Turmeric, from the Curcuma longa plant, and ginger, from the Zingiber officinale plant, are botanically related to each other and have both been used for centuries as spices in cooking. Both ginger and turmeric are generally considered safe and without significant side effects, and both are available as capsules from health-food stores. However, each may interact with certain prescription medications, and neither should be taken if you are pregnant. Do not self-treat with either ginger or turmeric.
Its active ingredient, called curcumin, gives turmeric its yellow color. Curcumin has anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties and is also a potent antioxidant. Antioxidants stabilize potentially damaging chemicals called free radicals that your body produces as by-products of digestion. Both ginger and turmeric are generally considered safe and without significant side effects, and both are available as capsules from health-food stores. However, each may interact with certain prescription medications, and neither should be taken if you are pregnant. Do not self-treat with either ginger or turmeric.
Turmeric, a bright, yellow spice derived from the rhizomes of the plant Curcuma longa, is grown in tropical Asia and Africa. It contains various polyphenolic compounds, with curcumin the most potent. Curcumin gives turmeric most of its medicinal benefits, including cancer prevention. Do not take ginger, turmeric and any other herbal supplements without first consulting your doctor. 
Mango ginger, also known as Curcuma amada, is a member of the ginger family Zingiberaceae and is closely related to turmeric. Consequently, it is not surprising that also mango ginger has been shown to contain curcumin. The rhizomes of mango ginger resemble ginger rhizomes and impart a flavor reminiscent of raw mango. In Southern India, the rhizomes of mango ginger to spice up pickles. Foods That Contain Curcumin. Turmeric (Curcuma longa). Turmeric, sometimes called poor man's saffron, is the best known natural source of curcumin. Ground turmeric is a common ingredient in curry powders, but also fresh turmeric has some culinary uses.
A good way to boost the curcumin content of your chicken curry is to use homemade curry powder that contains generous amounts of turmeric (check out HealWithFood.org's recipe for homemade curry powder rich in turmeric and black pepper). Mango Ginger (Curcuma amada Roxb.). Foods That Contain Curcumin. Turmeric (Curcuma longa). Turmeric, sometimes called poor man's saffron, is the best known natural source of curcumin. Ground turmeric is a common ingredient in curry powders, but also fresh turmeric has some culinary uses.