Larynx. From the pharynx, air enters into the larynx, commonly called the voice box. The larynx is part of the upper respiratory tract that has two main functions: a passageway for air to enter into the lungs, and a source of vocalization. Several organs of the respiratory system are responsible for the process of breathing. The nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs work together to allow gas exchange to occur at the cellular level.
The word throat is used for the parts of the neck anterior to the vertebral column, especially the pharynx and the larynx. The pharynx is the part of the digestive system situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. It is therefore divisible into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts: the (1) nasopharynx, (2) oropharynx, and (3) laryngopharynx. 53-2 The nasopharynx is the superiormost part of the pharynx, but (at least in its anterior aspect) it may also be regarded as the posterior portion of the nasal cavity (F. W. Jones, J. Anat., 74:147,1940; K. Leela, R. Kanagasuntheram, and F. Y. Khoo, J. Anat., 117:333, 1974).
The pharynx (plural: pharynges) is an organ found in vertebrates and invertebrates, though the structure is not universally the same across the species. In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs. It makes up the part of the throat situated immediately posterior to the nasal cavity, posterior to the mouth and superior to the esophagus and larynx. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization
structure of upper respiratory system. conists of two parts: upper respiratory system-includes nose, pharynx, and associated structures lower respiratory system-includes larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. include nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, bronchioles and terminal bronchioles, their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs respiratory zone-consists of tissues within the lungs where gas exchange occurs.
The larynx is the organ that connects the lower part of the pharynx with the trachea. It serves (1) as a valve to guard the air passages, especially during swallowing, (2) for the maintenance of a patent airway, and (3) for vocalization. 53-2 The nasopharynx is the superiormost part of the pharynx, but (at least in its anterior aspect) it may also be regarded as the posterior portion of the nasal cavity (F. W. Jones, J. Anat., 74:147,1940; K. Leela, R. Kanagasuntheram, and F. Y. Khoo, J. Anat., 117:333, 1974).
Behind the nose are the olfactory mucosa and the sinuses. Behind the nasal cavity, air next passes through the pharynx, shared with the digestive system, and then into the rest of the respiratory system. In humans, the nose is located centrally on the face and serves as an alternative respiratory passage especially during suckling for infants. Anatomically, a nose is a protuberance in vertebrates that houses the nostrils, or nares, which admit and expel air for respiration in conjunction with the mouth.
The PHARYNX is a fibromuscular tube which extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage (at which point it becomes the esophagus). Portions of the pharynx lie posterior to the nasal cavity (nasal pharynx), oral cavity (oral pharynx) and larynx (laryngeal pharynx). The muscular walls of the pharynx are comprised of an outer layer made up of 3 circularly disposed muscles, the CONSTRICTORS.
The respiratory system-Part 1: nose, pharynx and larynx. 23 May, 2006. This series looks at the structure and function of the respiratory system and describes the mechanics of breathing. Each of the cells in the body needs a supply of oxygen in order to function as well as a means to expel the carbon dioxide produced. The respiratory system (along with the cardiovascular system) is largely dedicated to supplying these needs. This article, the first in this four-part series, looks at the nose, pharynx and larynx (Fig 1). The respiratory system is a tube with many branches that end in millions of tiny air-filled sacs called alveoli.