Broil the salmon for eight to 10 minutes or until they'rre done. Begin testing the salmon after about six minutes. Insert a fork into one of the natural joins in the salmon flesh. The salmon should flake easily, and the flesh should be opaque. 
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum ba
1 Broil in the preheated oven for 3 minutes. 2  Turn salmon fillets so that the side of the fillet faces up, and baste fillets with about 1/3 of the butter sauce; broil for 3 minutes. 1 Preheat the oven's broiler and set the oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source. 2  Line a jelly roll pan with aluminum foil, and spray with nonstick spray. 3  Place garlic and olive oil in a small microwave safe bowl and cook on High for 1 1/2 minutes.
The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. ● Thin Fillet. Thin fillets are either closer to the tail or taken from a smaller fish. Usually a fillet of 1″ or less is considered thin. For a fillet that is about 1″ thickness, bake the fish at 400° for about 10-12 minutes. When using a foil wrap, the fillet should be baked at 375° for about 15
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  As a result, it does not need to be marinaded for long in order to absorb flavor. 3  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking. Place the fish in the preheated pan. Cook for 3 minutes before flipping each fillet over and cooking for an additional 3 to 4 minutes. 1  Use a fish spatula to turn the fish. 2  Do not use tongs, since the salmon will likely break apart prematurely if handled with tongs during the cooking process.
1 Turn salmon fillets so that the side of the fillet faces up, and baste fillets with about 1/3 of the butter sauce; broil for 3 minutes. 2  Turn the fillets to place the opposite side facing up; spoon on the remaining butter sauce; broil until the fish flakes easily with a fork, about 3 additional minutes. 1 Preheat the oven's broiler and set the oven rack about 6 inches from the heat source. 2  Line a jelly roll pan with aluminum foil, and spray with nonstick spray. 3  Place garlic and olive oil in a small microwave safe bowl and cook on High for 1 1/2 minutes.
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking. Place the fish in the preheated pan. Cook for 3 minutes before flipping each fillet over and cooking for an additional 3 to 4 minutes. 1  Use a fish spatula to turn the fish. 2  Do not use tongs, since the salmon will likely break apart prematurely if handled with tongs during the cooking process.
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it. Salmon is done when easily flaked: You can also check the doneness of your salmon with a fork. When the salmon flakes easily with a fork, it's ready.
1. Preheat the broiler and prep the salmon fillets. To broil salmon, or anything else, you will need some sort of broiling pan. A broiling pan has a top piece with slits cut in it for the juice to drip through into the reservoir below. Place an oven rack about 5–6 inches below the broiler unit. 
3. Broil for 10 to 12 minutes. Place the broiler pan 5 1/2 inches (14 cm) away from the top heating element and cook the salmon until done. 1  The salmon is done when you can effortlessly flake the fillets with a fork. 2  The center should be opaque. 3  You can turn the salmon once during cooking to ensure even browning, but it is not necessary. Place the fish in the preheated pan. Cook for 3 minutes before flipping each fillet over and cooking for an additional 3 to 4 minutes. 1  Use a fish spatula to turn the fish. 2  Do not use tongs, since the salmon will likely break apart prematurely if handled with tongs during the cooking process.