Taj Mahal is important because it is one of the 7 wonders in the world. it is very beautiful and tourists come to visit from all over the world. if it is destroyed than the wonders will remain 6. and tourists from other countries will not come to visit India and cannot see the beauty of our world. Taj mahal is mausoleum built by Shah Jahan in the memory of his wife Mumtaz Mahal. Construction of Taj mahal took 22 years. More than 1000 elephants where used to carry the ma … terials. More than 10000 wokers were involved in the construction process. Nearly by 1648AD construction was completed.
Reason: The Taj Mahal is an iconic example of Mughal architecture and one of the most well known buildings in the world. * * *. The Taj Mahal is widely considered one of the most beautiful buildings ever created. The exquisite marble structure in Agra, India, is a mausoleum, an enduring monument to the love of a husband for his favorite wife. It's also an eternal testament to the artistic and scientific accomplishments of a wealthy empire. 
Existence of Taj Mahal. Taj Mahal is located in Agra and it is known as the crown of places. Majority of the tourists plan their visit to India because of the existence of Taj Mahal over there. It is made with the white marbles that remain cool even if the temperature outside is very hot. India as a country has greatly been visited by the tourists and they love to do so because of its immense hidden beauties. Taj Mahal is not a hidden beauty but it is a huge architecture standing in front of the world’s eyes and considered to one of the wonders of the world.
Increased tourism in India due to Taj Mahal. India as a country has greatly been visited by the tourists and they love to do so because of its immense hidden beauties. Taj Mahal is not a hidden beauty but it is a huge architecture standing in front of the world’s eyes and considered to one of the wonders of the world.
Taj Mahal was built by a Muslim, Emperor Shah Jahan (died 1666 C.E.) in the memory of his dear wife and queen Mumtaz Mahal at Agra, India. It is an elegy in marble or some say an expression of a dream.. Taj Mahal (meaning Crown Palace) is a Mausoleum that houses the grave of queen Mumtaz Mahal at the lower chamber. 
The Taj Mahal is located in Agra, a city in the Uttar Pradesh region of northern India. It was built as the final resting place for Mumtaz Mahal, the third wife of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan. The name Taj Mahal means “crown of palaces”. The Taj Mahal is made of white marble. One of the Taj Mahal’s most recognizable features is a large white dome that is often called an ‘onion dome’ due to its shape. It has a height of around 35 metres (115 feet) and is surrounded by 4 smaller domes. The full height of the Taj Mahal is 171 metres (561 feet).
The Taj Mahal is in Agra, Uttar Pradesh, India. Taj Mahal is a  pre-Islamic fort. The construction and architecture reveals that.  What is now Taj Mahal was a part of a huge … building. Mongols when  they overrun India were uncivilized nomadic barbarians never seen  any buildings but used to live in tents (they still do, go to  Uzbeckistan and see).
The Taj Mahal is a mausoleum located in Agra, India, that was built under Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in memory of his favorite wife, Mumtaz Mahal. Best Answer: It's a tomb indeed. And he did had it made for his wife. On the other side of the river, he was building another Taj Mahal, in red bricks. (No they did not run out of marble), but he was still building his own tomb when they ran out of money. There is more to it then just that.
Commissioned in 1632 by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan to house the remains of his cherished wife, the Taj Mahal stands on the southern bank of the Yamuna River in Agra, India. Deconstructing History: Taj Mahal. Originally built by Emperor Shah Jahan to house the tomb his wife, the Taj Mahal remains an architectural marvel of the modern world.