What is ethylene oxide?Ethylene oxide (EtO) is a flammable, colorless gas attemperatures above 51.3 ºF (10.7 ºC) that smells likeether at toxic levels. EtO is found in the production ofsolvents, antifreeze, textiles, detergents, adhesives,polyurethane foam, and pharmaceuticals.
Until 1995, ethylene oxide sterilizers combined ETO with a chloroflourocarbon (CFC) stabilizing agent, most commonly in a ratio of 12% ETO mixed with 88% CFC (referred to as 12/88 ETO). For several reasons, healthcare personnel have been exploring the use of new low-temperature sterilization technologies 825, 851.
EtO gas infiltrates packages as well as products themselves to kill micro organisms that are left during production or packaging processes. This gas, mixed with air at a ratio of at least 3% EtO gas, forms an explosive mixture. Pure EtO gas boiling point is 10.73 ºC at atmospheric pressure.
Low-Temperature Sterilization Technologies. Ethylene oxide (ETO) has been widely used as a low-temperature sterilant since the 1950s. It has been the most commonly used process for sterilizing temperature-and moisture-sensitive medical devices and supplies in healthcare institutions in the United States.
Ethylene Oxide. Ethylene oxide (EtO) is produced in large volumes and is primarily used as an intermediate in the production of several industrial chemicals, the most notable of which is ethylene glycol. It is also used as a fumigant in certain agricultural products and as a sterilant for medical equipment and supplies.
ISO 11135 EtO Sterilization for Medical Devices. One of the most popular methods of sterilization of medical devices is through exposure to Ethylene Oxide gas (EtO/EO). The gas is an alkaline agent that infiltrates packaged medical devices to kill microorganisms and thus achieve sterilization.
Ethylene Oxide (EtO) sterilization is mainly used to sterilize medical and pharmaceutical products that cannot support conventional high temperature steam sterilization-such as devices that incorporate electronic components, plastic packaging or plastic containers.