The term ‘brown bread’ is usually taken to mean the bread that is made of whole-wheat grains. In other words, in the process of making brown bread, the bran and germ of the wheat flour are not removed and left intact. The result is that the bread retains all its essential nutrients, along with the much healthy fiber.
Wheat Germ. Whole wheat bread still contains the wheat germ. Wheat germ is a part of the seed of the grain. Wheat germ contains many nutrients like vitamin E and folate. These vitamins are important for a healthy heart. Vitamin E promotes healthy skin and hair. Wheat germ also contains essential omega 3 fatty acids.
Brown Bread is made of whole wheat flour and accords a number of health benefits. With this article, learn about the nutrition facts related to brown bread.
1 All whole-wheat breads are brown in color, but not all brown breads are made of whole-wheat. 2  Before buying brown bread, make sure that it has whole grain as the main ingredient. 3  Brown bread has more fiber and nutrients than white bread, since it is not processed as much as the latter.
Whole-grain foods have more fiber than white grain foods. There are many kinds of whole-grain foods, such as oatmeal, brown rice, grits, corn tortillas and whole wheat bread. You may want to try a whole grain bread instead of white bread.
Whole wheat bread gives you many important nutrients. Many processed breads add vitamins to the flour, but it is best to get your nutrients from the grain itself and not artificially through the refining process.
As a general rule, the more hard the wheat bread is, the more protein it contains. Processed bread contains less than two grams of protein per slice. The protein found in whole grain can contribute to the daily recommended amount, without adding saturated fat. The protein in whole wheat bread comes from wheat gluten.
Make at least half the grains in your diet whole grains. Whole-grain versions of rice, bread, cereal, flour and pasta can be found at most grocery stores. Many whole-grain foods come ready to eat. These include a variety of breads, pastas and cereals. Examples of whole grains include: 1  Barley. 2  Brown rice.