As you age, it is normal to look back over your life and try to make sense of your experiences. For Veterans this process can trigger Late-Onset Stress Symptomatology (LOSS). The symptoms of LOSS are similar to symptoms of PTSD. Here are some common symptom patterns: 1  Some Veterans begin to have PTSD symptoms soon after they return from war. 2  These symptoms may last until older age. 3  Other Veterans don't have PTSD symptoms until later in life.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can develop after a person is exposed to one or more traumatic events, such as major stress, sexual assault, warfare, or other threats on a person's life. 88% of men and 79% of women with lifetime PTSD have at least one comorbid psychiatric disorder. Major depressive disorder, 48% of men and 49% of women, and lifetime alcohol abuse or dependence, 51.9% of men and 27.9% of women, are the most common comorbid disorders.
The most traumatic events for women are rape, sexual molestation, physical attack, being threatened with a weapon, and childhood physical abuse. About 30 percent of the men and women who have spent time in war zones experience PTSD. An additional 20 to 25 percent have had partial PTSD at some point in their lives. An estimated 7.8 percent of Americans will experience PTSD at some point in their lives, with women (10.4%) twice as likely as men (5%) to develop PTSD. About 3.6 percent of U.S. adults aged 18 to 54 (5.2 million people) have PTSD during the course of a given year. This represents a small portion of those who have experienced at least one traumatic event; 60.7% of men and 51.2% of women reported at least one traumatic event. The traumatic events most often associated with PTSD for men are rape, combat exposure, childhood neglect, and childhood physical abuse
1 Some Veterans begin to have PTSD symptoms soon after they return from war. 2  These symptoms may last until older age. 3  Other Veterans don't have PTSD symptoms until later in life. 4  For some Veterans, PTSD symptoms can be high right after their war experience, go down over the years, and then worsen again later in life. Here are some common symptom patterns: 1 
Here are some common symptom patterns: 1  Some Veterans begin to have PTSD symptoms soon after they return from war. 2  Other Veterans don't have PTSD symptoms until later in life. 3  For some Veterans, PTSD symptoms can be high right after their war experience, go down over the years, and then worsen again later in life. Here are some common symptom patterns: 1  Some Veterans begin to have PTSD symptoms soon after they return from war. 2  These symptoms may last until older age. 3
1 These symptoms may last until older age. 2  Other Veterans don't have PTSD symptoms until later in life. 3  For some Veterans, PTSD symptoms can be high right after their war experience, go down over the years, and then worsen again later in life. Here are some common symptom patterns: 1  Some Veterans begin to have PTSD symptoms soon after they return from war. 2  These symptoms may last until older age. 3
One estimate suggests that the proportion of children and adolescents having PTSD in a non-wartorn population in a developed country may be 1% compared to 1.5% to 3% of adults, and much lower below the age of 10 years. 88% of men and 79% of women with lifetime PTSD have at least one comorbid psychiatric disorder. Major depressive disorder, 48% of men and 49% of women, and lifetime alcohol abuse or dependence, 51.9% of men and 27.9% of women, are the most common comorbid disorders.
Before a diagnosis of PTSD can be made, the patient's symptoms must significantly disrupt normal activities and last for more than one month. Approximately 80 percent of patients with PTSD have at least one comorbid psychiatric disorder. 
Share. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can develop after exposure to a terrifying event or ordeal in which there was the potential for or actual occurrence of grave physical harm. 