Answer: Calcification in the lungs can be caused by several different processes. The most common cause is calcification of granulomas, small scars within the lung tissue that are usually caused by infections. Over time these scars become calcified. They are usually benign (not cancerous) and do not cause any problems. Other causes of calcification within the lungs include bleeding, infections. Usually no treatment is needed. If you have further questions about the calcifications in your lungs, you should ask to review the chest xray or CT scan with your physician and ask them what they think the cause and prognosis is in your case.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Peakay Tea. Confidence votes 50.7K. Calcification in a lung during imaging (x-ray, CT) can be caused by an infection that previously healed, by exposure to dust (for instance, silica dust at a job), or can be a sign of cancer or a rheumatological disease. The cause is usually not cancerous. 
Save. Your doctor believes you may have a calcium deposit (or calcification) on or in your lung. He may also use the term: 'pulmonary calcification'. While calcium deposits in the lung are usually benign (non-cancerous), they can become malignant. Calcium deposits should be monitored both to prevent cancer, and because many of the conditions that cause calcification are also serious. Infections (chronic bronchitis and pneumonia), tuberculosis, previous lung injuries, histoplasmosis (a fungal infection), long-time asbestos exposure and chronic kidney disease (which can create high levels of calcium in your blood) are all possible causes.
The most common cause of nodule calcification is granuloma formation, usually in the response to healed infection. 1  healed infection. 2  calcified granulomata, e.g. thoracic histoplasmosis, recovered miliary tuberculosis (rare). 3  most common. 4  2-5 mm. 5  calcification may be central or diffuse. 
Calcium deposits in the lungs (also called pulmonary calcifications) are usually detected by a chest X-ray or CT scan. They may be due a long list of causes, including: 
* Trauma or bleeding in the lung * Lung nodules or tumors, especially ones that are non-cancerous (benign) * Radiation treatment * Metastatic calcification With this condition, calcium collects abnormally throughout the body, including in the lungs. People with kidney failure who have dialysis often have this condition. * Disorders causing high blood calcium For example, hyperparathyroidism is a hormonal disorder that may cause high blood calcium and calcium deposits in a variety of organs. * Asbestos exposure Calcium deposits in the lungs are often of no importance. In many cases, the cause may be uncertain despite extensive testing.
Lung calcification can be easily noticed on chest X-ray. Better insight of calcium deposits is achieved by CT scan of the lungs. Once the doctor has found calcium deposits in patient's lungs he/ she continues with examinations and tests to determine the underlying cause of the disease. Causes of Calcium Deposits in Lungs. Condition in which calcium accumulates in lung tissue is known as lung calcification. Lung calcification may occur in patients suffering from chronic lung infections such as bronchitis and pneumonia. Furthermore, exposure to asbestos increases the chance of lung calcification