As the bulk hydrocarbon moves through the subsurface, some of the liquid may be trapped in the soil or sediment pores (residualsaturation); some may evaporate (volatilization); some may become sorbed to the surface of the soil particles (sorption) and so memay dissolve in the ground water (dissolved plume). 
Executive Summary Groundwater and soil contamination is a common issue at current and former landfill sites. Contaminants such as arsenic, iron, manganese, lead, and cadmium can dissolve from soil and waste material into groundwater in a process known as leaching. The dissolution of these metals is based on the chemistry of the water and the soil. 
The HFO-type iron minerals are stable under the normal oxidizing conditions found in shallow aquifers. This results in low dissolved arsenic concentrations in natural groundwater and relatively high sorption of arsenic onto the surface of the iron minerals. Note that the small difference in dissolved arsenic and iron concentrations do not appreciably change the reservoir of arsenic (3.03 mg/Kg) and iron (810 mg/Kg) in the solid phase.
The introduction of petroleum hydrocarbons (or other degradable organics) may cause a perturbation to the existing geochemistry, resulting in the mobilization of arsenic at concentrations above the ambient level. Petroleum and other degradable organics lower the redox state to more reduced conditions. Arsenic is naturally found in many soils. It may be present as specific minerals or it may be present as an adsorbed phase on metal (primarily iron) oxyhydroxides and other clay minerals. There are over 500 naturally occurring arsenic minerals.
HFO can act as an electron acceptor in the biodegradation process of benzene (which acts as an electron donor), resulting in the solubilization of HFO, which then releases the adsorbed arsenic into the groundwater. The result is that dissolved iron and arsenic increase in the groundwater. Note that the small difference in dissolved arsenic and iron concentrations do not appreciably change the reservoir of arsenic (3.03 mg/Kg) and iron (810 mg/Kg) in the solid phase.
Arsenic has been observed in groundwater in association with petroleum-impacted aquifers at a variety of sites. During anaerobic biodegradation of hydrocarbons, Fe(III)-reducing microorganisms can couple the reduction of solid phase Fe(III)-oxides to soluble Fe(II) with the oxidation of petroleum compounds. The resulting mass loading is calculated to be 17.35 grams per year or 4.15 x 10 -5 grams per year per square foot. The associated predicted groundwater concentration is 1.8 µg/L. These results correlate well with the low concentrations of arsenic observed in groundwater across most of the refinery.
Arsenic Site Characterization The field area is large refinery site where petroleum hydrocarbons have impacted the subsurface sediments and groundwater. Annual rainfall averages 39 inches per year with the majority of precipitation occurring in two three-month periods of the year. The resulting mass loading is calculated to be 17.35 grams per year or 4.15 x 10 -5 grams per year per square foot. The associated predicted groundwater concentration is 1.8 µg/L. These results correlate well with the low concentrations of arsenic observed in groundwater across most of the refinery.
The freezing drive shoe enables nearly complete core recovery from saturated, sandy aquifers. Photo credit: Jeanne Jaeschke, Changes in geochemistry from the natural breakdown of petroleum hydrocarbons in groundwater promote mobilization of naturally occurring arsenic from aquifer sediments into groundwater. Results from this field investigation reveal that arsenic concentrations in the hydrocarbon plume can reach 230 micrograms per liter (µg/L), or 23 times the current drinking water standard of 10 µg/L. Arsenic concentrations are below 10 µg/L upgradient and downgradient from the plume
The modeling exercise showed that the transport of arsenic is highly retarded in groundwater compared to dissolved iron concentrations. Even after 50 years, the dissolved arsenic plume only travels a moderate distance of 50 feet under the fastest groundwater velocity condition of 12 ft/year. Note that the small difference in dissolved arsenic and iron concentrations do not appreciably change the reservoir of arsenic (3.03 mg/Kg) and iron (810 mg/Kg) in the solid phase.