Medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) are partially man-made fats. The name refers to the way the carbon atoms are arranged in their chemical structure. MCTs are generally made by processing coconut and palm kernel oils in the laboratory. Usual dietary fats, by comparison, are long-chain triglycerides. People use MCTs as medicine. Use of a mixture of medium-chain triglycerides and longchain triglycerides versus long-chain triglycerides in critically ill surgical patients: a randomized prospective double-blind study. Clin Nutr 1998;17:23-9. View abstract. Reger MA, Henderson ST, Hale C, et al.
Medium-chain triglycerides (or MCTs for short) are made up of medium-chain fatty acids. The “medium” refers to the length of their chemical structure: all fats are made up of strings of carbon and hydrogen. Short-chain fats (e.g. butyric acid) have fewer than 6 carbons. 
Medium chain triglycerides is for dietary use in people whose bodies cannot digest certain foods properly. This includes people who are gluten or lactose intolerant, or who have unintended weight loss or need increased calories for other medical reasons. Medium chain triglycerides Side Effects. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) are triglycerides whose fatty acids have an aliphatic tail of 6–12 carbon atoms. The fatty acids found in MCTs are called medium-chain fatty acids (MCFAs). Like all triglycerides, MCTs are composed of a glycerol backbone and three fatty acids. In the case of MCTs, 2 or 3 of the fatty acid chains attached to glycerol are medium-chain in length. Rich sources for commercial extraction of beneficial MCTs include palm kernel oil and coconut oil
1 Medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) are most commonly derived from coconut oil, palm oil, and dairy fat. 2  They have been shown to lower weight, and to decrease metabolic syndrome, abdominal obesity, and inflammatory markers. 3  They decrease appetite when taken with or before a meal and are quite palatable. PRO. 1  Medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) are most commonly derived from coconut oil, palm oil, and dairy fat. 2  MCTs, when taken during pregnancy, prevented obesity for children later in life. 3  MCTs decrease triglyceride cholesterol levels and raise HDL (healthy) cholesterol, which causes the total cholesterol value to rise as well, but for a good 4  ... M
Medium chain triglycerides does not contain protein or carbohydrates. Medium chain triglycerides may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow all directions on your medicine label and package. Tell each of your healthcare providers about all your medical conditions, allergies, and all medicines you use. Medium chain triglycerides Side Effects. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) are a naturally occurring source of dietary fat and are abundant in coconut oil. MCT supplements may briefly improve brain function in people with mild to moderate cognitive impairment by providing an additional energy source for the brain. Medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) are source of dietary fat naturally found in certain animal and vegetable oils
MCT Oils-Medium Chain Triglycerides. A type of fatty acids, medium chain triglycerides, or MCTs, have a shorter chemical composition compared to most other fats and oils. They also are lower in calories than long chain fatty acid
Medium chain triglycerides is a medical food derived from fatty acids and safflower oil, a polyunsaturated fat. Medium chain triglycerides Side Effects. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.