Chromatin vs Chromosomes. All human beings are made up of cells. Every one of us is basically broken down into these microscopic, living things that are each have a role to play in our body. Each organ that we have, even our bones, is made up of cells that have different forms and functions. Going back, you may have read something about chromosomes and chromatin. You may have thought that these terms have something to do with cells. Basically you are right. It is true that both of these terms are found in cells, but they are actually different. Here is the reason why.
Chromatin and chromosomes are basically the same thing. The difference is that chromatin is unfolded, uncondensed, extended DNA while chromosomes are condensed DNA. Chromosomes are condensed chromatin and chromatin is unfolded chromosomes. A chromosome is a strand of DNA with proteins, that is usually found within the cell's nucleus. On the other hand, chromatin is a mass of genetic material containing DNA, RNA, … and various proteins that forms chromosomes. **before mitosis, the DNA is loose in the nucleus in the form of chromatin. When the DNA begins to undergo mitosis the chromatin condenses to form the chromosome. The difference between chromatin and chromosomes is that  chromosomes help to make up chromatin. Chromatin is made up of DNA  and proteins, and is what makes the nucleus of a cell. Chromosomes  make up the DNA. 44 people found this useful
The difference between chromatin, chromatid and chromosome. DNA, the blueprint of life, is organized into structures called chromosomes. In prokaryotic cells, chromosomes are circular, whereas in eukaryotic cells, they are linear strands. 
DNA exists in Chromatin form in the nucleus. The chromatin condenses to form Chromosomes during cell division. Inside the nucleus. The chromatin in the nucleus forms a ' beads-on-string ' structure or Nucleosome. The 'beads' are octamer histone proteins and the 'string' is the double-stranded DNA. About 147 base pairs wrap around the 8-part histone protein to form a nucleosome. The nucleosomes condense to form a chromatin fiber
On the other hand, chromatin is a mass of genetic material containing DNA, RNA, and various proteins that forms chromosomes. **before mitosis, the DNA is loose in the nucleus in the form of chromatin. When the DNA begins to undergo mitosis the chromatin condenses to form the chromosome. The difference between chromatin and chromosomes is that chromosomes help to make up chromatin. Chromatin is made up of DNA and proteins, and is what makes the nucleus of a cell. Chromosomes make up the DNA. Chromosome … s are condensed chromatin and chromatin is unfolded chromosomes. The only difference I know is that chromatin are present normally in a cell, while chromosomes are there only when the cell is about to divide. When the cell is about to divide, the chromatin threads get organised into chromosomes.
Chromatins are just a combination of DNA, histones(a type of proteins) and RNA. Strands of DNA are considered as chromatins and when these strands combine, this forms the chromosome. Chromatin is untangled and unfolded DNA, while chromosome is condensed DNA. The chromatin condenses into chromosome during mitosis. The chromatin in the nucleus forms a ' beads-on-string ' structure or Nucleosome. The 'beads' are octamer histone proteins and the 'string' is the double-stranded DNA. About 147 base pairs wrap around the 8-part histone protein to form a nucleosome.
In the nucleus, the DNA double helix is packaged by special proteins (histones) to form a complex called chromatin. The chromatin undergoes further condensation to form the chromosome. So while the chromatin is a lower order of DNA organization, chromosomes are the higher order of DNA organization. An organism’s genetic content is counted in terms of the chromosome pairs present. e.g. humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes. The chromatin undergoes further condensation to form the chromosome. A compact structure of nucleic acids and protein found in the nucleus of most living cells, carrying genetic information in the form of genes. Structure. Composed of nucleosomes-a complex of DNA and proteins (called histones).
Chromatin is the combination of DNA and protein inside the cell nucleus, whereas chromosome is a sequence of nucleic acids coiled onto the proteins (histone proteins) to form an organized structure. Both chromatin and chromosome structures are nucleoprotein complexes in which chromatin is uncondensed part whereas chromosome is condensed part. Chromatin is observed during interphase of cell cycle whereas chromosome is observed during M-phase (Metaphase) of cell cycle.