Battery is a criminal offense involving unlawful physical contact, distinct from assault which is the act of creating apprehension of such contact. In the United States, criminal battery, or simply battery, is the use of force against another, resulting in harmful, offensive or sexual contact. Battery was defined at common law as any unlawful touching of the person of another by the aggressor himself, or by a substance put in motion by him.. In most cases, battery is now governed by statutes, and its severity is determined by the law of the specific jurisdiction.
Full Definition of BATTERY. 1. a: the act of battering or beating b: an offensive touching or use of force on a person without the person's consent — compare assault 2a. 2. [Middle French batterie, from battre to beat] a: a grouping of artillery pieces for tactical purposes b: the guns of a warship. 
At common law, an intentional unpermitted act causing harmful or offensive contact with the person of another. Battery is concerned with the right to have one's body left alone by others. Battery is both a tort and a crime. Its essential element, harmful or offensive contact, is the same in both areas of the law. 
In criminal law, assault is usually listed alongside battery. Many people are familiar with the term “ assault and battery ,” and battery is often confused with assault. However, assault is a separate charge from battery. It is generally defined as an attempted battery. Alternatively, it can be defined as “the intentional creation of a reasonable apprehension of harm.”. While this sounds very complex, assault basically refers to situations where one person creates a fear of harm in another person. 
Usually, whether civil or criminal, an assault involves an action -- or threat of action -- by one person that puts another person in apprehension of imminent bodily harm. Battery -- again, both civil and criminal -- is usually the logical extension of assault (a completed assault, in other words). 
Under the criminal law in most states, battery is the intentional touching of-or use of force to touch-another in an offensive or injurious manner. Some of the states as well as the Model Penal Code also define battery to include situations where the actor knew or had reason to know his actions would cause the contact. Aggravated battery is generally classified as a felony and involves the intentional or knowing infliction of serious bodily injury upon the victim. Under state law, serious bodily injury involves death, extreme pain, disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of a bodily function.
At common law, battery is the tort of intentionally (or, in Australia, negligently) and voluntarily bringing about an unconsented harmful or offensive contact with a person or to something closely associated with them (e.g. a hat, a purse). Unlike assault, battery involves an actual contact. Thus, a hypersensitive person would fail on a battery action if jostled by fellow passengers on a subway, as this contact is expected in normal society and a reasonable person would not find it offensive. Harmful is defined by any physical damage to the body. Battery need not require body-to-body contact.
edit Definition. Any reasonable threat to a person is assault while battery is defined as use of force against another with intent of causing physical harm without his consent. In other words, assault is the attempt to commit battery. edit Aggravated Variants. Aggravated assault is the display of willingness or ability to carry out the threat while aggravated battery is making physical contact or touching the person with or without weapons in order to cause bodily harm or restrain.