­R­ust is the common name for a very common compound, iron oxide. Iron oxide, the chemical Fe2O3, is common because iron combines very readily with oxygen -- so readily, in … fact, that pure iron is only rarely found in nature. As oxygen combines with the metal, electrons are liberated. When they flow through the electrolyte to the cathode, the metal of the anode disappears, swept away by the electrical flow or converted into metal cations in a form such as rust. + 24 others found this useful. Sunile Doal.
Rust is a red-orange-brown color resembling iron oxide. It is a commonly used color in stage lighting, and appears roughly the same color as photographic safelights when used over a standard tungsten light source. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rust is a red-orange-brown color resembling iron oxide. It is a commonly used color in stage lighting, and appears roughly the same color as photographic safelights when used over a standard tungsten light source. The color is number 777 in the Lee Filters swatch book.
Noun. 1. rust-a red or brown oxide coating on iron or steel caused by the action of oxygen and moisture. goethite, gothite-a red or yellow or brown mineral; an oxide of iron that is a common constituent of rust. ferric oxide-a red oxide of iron. rust. n. 1. (Chemistry) a reddish-brown oxide coating formed on iron or steel by the action of oxygen and moisture. 2. (Plant Pathology) Also called: rust fungus plant pathol. a. any basidiomycetous fungus of the order Uredinales, parasitic on cereal plants, conifers, etc.
The chemical formula for rust is Fe2O3,which is called iron oxide, but is also known as ferric oxide or hematite,among other names. The word ferric refers to iron ions with a +3 charge (or with 23 electrons), whereas ferrous refers to iron ions with a +2 charge (or with 24 electrons). 
: a reddish substance that forms on iron or some other metal usually when it comes in contact with moisture or air. : a disease that causes plants to develop reddish-brown spots. : a reddish-brown color. Definition of RUST for Kids. 1. : a reddish coating formed on metal (as iron) when it is exposed especially to moist air. 2. : a plant disease caused by fungi that makes spots on plants. 3. : a fungus that causes a rust.
Rust is named after the resulting phenomenon of the oxidation of iron. The word 'rust' finds its etymological origins in the Proto-Germanic word rusta, which translates to redness.. The word is closely related to the term  ruddy , which also refers to a reddish coloring in an object. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rust is a red-orange-brown color resembling iron oxide. It is a commonly used color in stage lighting, and appears roughly the same color as photographic safelights when used over a standard tungsten light source. The color is number 777 in the Lee Filters swatch book.
As oxygen combines with the metal, electrons are liberated. When they flow through the electrolyte to the cathode, the metal of the anode disappears, swept away by the electrical flow or converted into metal cations in a form such as rust. 25 people found this useful. Iron oxide, the chemical Fe2O3, is common because iron combines very readily with oxygen -- so readily, in … fact, that pure iron is only rarely found in nature.
Rust is an iron oxide, usually red oxide formed by the redox reaction of iron and oxygen in the presence of water or air moisture. Several forms of rust are distinguishable both visually and by spectroscopy, and form under different circumstances. Outdoors Rust Wedge display at the Exploratorium shows the enormous expansive force of rusting iron. Rust is another name for iron oxide, which occurs when iron or an alloy that contains iron, like steel, is exposed to oxygen and moisture for a long period of time. Over time, the oxygen combines with the metal at an atomic level, forming a new compound called an oxide and weakening the bonds of the metal itself
Oxidized metal gears. A paste of baking soda and water can remove rust from metal. Water molecules can penetrate the tiny openings in exposed metal. A dehumidifier may be used to reduce the chances of rust formation. Rust, also known as iron oxide, happens when iron or an iron alloy is exposed to oxygen and moisture. In the end vinegar rusted the most. It formed a lot of rust and it lost the most weight too. Tap water was next then salt water. From the research I've done, vinegar removes rust, and salt water is supposed to rust a lot. I am supposed to explain why what happened happened. I can't find anything, though.