I believe that students SHOULD NOT have to complete so many hours of community service to graduate. Many have things they do after school including work, homework, and even sports for their school. Its a struggle between all of that for a student to do community service. School is a place for learning, not for giving back to the community. If students want to give back, they can do it on their own time.
Students who do community service work learn that they can actually make a difference with what they do. This helps students better understand their own competence, leading to more self-confidence and a can-do attitude that can spread to their work and academic pursuits.
For most people, volunteering is an extra; something that's nice to do, but not absolutely necessary. Although plenty of students do community service, the number of students who volunteer is dropping at a rapid rate. Consider this: college student volunteerism peaked in 2004 at 31.2%, and in 2010, got down to 26.1%.
Students have more to think about. I believe that students SHOULD NOT have to complete so many hours of community service to graduate. Many have things they do after school including work, homework, and even sports for their school. Its a struggle between all of that for a student to do community service. School is a place for learning, not for giving back to the community. If students want to give back, they can do it on their own time.
In Roslyn students beginning with the high school class of '97 will be required to take a one-semester half-credit community-service course and to complete a minimum of 30 hours of field work to graduate. For the class of '98 the number of field hours will increase, to 40.
Students who participate in community service learning tend to do better in school. It's believed that community service is somewhat of a missing link for students, giving them the chance to apply what they've learned in the classroom to real human needs.
SCTC. I think that students should be required to do a community service project before they graduate. Besides their graduation project, I think that it would be great to see students give back to the community.