(Also see Ordinance or Law exclusion .) A standard exclusion found in most property, business income, and boiler & machinery insurance policies that does not cover the added cost of complying with building or zoning laws after an insured loss. Any type of emission, seepage, or discharge that causes damage or injury to property or people. Most property insurance policies have either an exclusion or a limitation on pollution and spell out in detail what pollution is.
Glossary of Commercial Insurance Terms Commercial insurance is divided into two main categories: property insurance and casualty insurance. Property insurance provides coverage for property that is stolen, damaged, or destroyed by a covered peril. The term property insurance includes many lines of available insurance. Commercial Property, Inland Marine, Boiler and Machinery, and Crime are the most common commercial property coverage lines. 
Exclusion in property policies that does not cover loss to property by mechanical failure; however, subsequent loss resulting from damage by the mechanical failure, if by a covered cause of loss is covered. Any type of emission, seepage, or discharge that causes damage or injury to property or people. Most property insurance policies have either an exclusion or a limitation on pollution and spell out in detail what pollution is.
What you pay for Commercial Property Insurance depends on what your building is made of, the type of business (high risk or low risk) you do there, your location, your potential exposure to other hazards, and how well protected from fire you are (e.g. sprinklers, extinguishers, alarms, etc.). There are many different types of Commercial Property coverage, and businesses can usually choose which causes of loss to cover. They can choose to cover specified perils (like fires, explosions, wind, vandalism, etc.) or open perils (all losses unless specifically excluded).
Commercial Property Insurance Quotes. Commercial Property Insurance protects your business against damage to buildings and their contents from fire, theft, and other hazards. Think of it as Homeowner's Insurance for your business. Typically, Commercial Property Insurance covers: 1  Buildings you own or lease (including permanent fixtures, permanent machinery, and permanent equipment). 2  Business property on premises (non-permanent fixtures, machinery, equipment, computers, and inventory). There are many different types of Commercial Property coverage, and businesses can usually choose which causes of loss to cover. They can choose to cover specified perils (like fires, explosions, wind, vandalism, etc.) or open perils (all losses unless specifically excluded).
The pollutant exclusion's language often varies between insurance carriers and the type of coverage being provided (for example, commercial property versus homeowners, or all-risk versus named-peril policies). Even subtle distinctions can make all the difference in determining whether the exclusion applies. Just because your insurance company denies coverage based on a policy exclusion, does not mean they are correct in their coverage analysis. Often, insurance companies will immediately deny any form of water damage as excluded under the flood provision only to have these denials overturned by the courts.
2. Explosion hazard includes property damage arising out of blasting or explosion. Theexplosion hazard does not include property damage arising out of the explosion of air or steam vessels, piping under pressure, primemovers, machinery or power transmittingequipment. 3. Structural property damage means thecollapse of or structural injury to any building or structure due to: a
An exclusion in the boiler & machinery policy that limits the policy to pressure explosions but not fire box explosions or combustible gas explosions. Note that property policies exclude explosions covered by the boiler & machinery policy. Any type of emission, seepage, or discharge that causes damage or injury to property or people. Most property insurance policies have either an exclusion or a limitation on pollution and spell out in detail what pollution is.
A. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2. Exclusions in Section I – Coverages: This insurance does not apply to property dam-age included within the explosion hazard, the collapse hazard or the underground property damage hazard if any of these hazards is entered as an excluded hazard on the Schedule. Moving, shoring, underpinning, raising or demolition of any building or structure or removal or rebuilding of any structural sup-port of that building or structure. 4. Underground property damage hazard in-cludes underground property damage and any resulting property damage to any other property at any time.