The genus Paris consists of around 24 species of flowering herbaceous plants found in temperate mixed forests. It has a wide distribution, from Iceland to Japan, with the greatest concentration being found in China. All have simple, erect stems with leaves arranged in a terminal whorl above which sits a solitary flower. 
Any plants that grow will grow in France given the right conditions. You need to understand the needs of the plant, give it what it requires and it will grow anywhere. Clematis is a flowering vine plant that thrives in the sunniest parts of France, and is planted along fences and buildings throughout the country. The clematis can be of the evergreen variety, or a seasonally blooming perennial plant.
These Japanese Cherry Trees were planted three years ago in the Paris suburb of Le Raincy. Cherry Trees, Le Raincy, near Paris, France. All in a row. It is very interesting to see what is being planted, and in what sorts of arrangements-a single species in rows, small trees, large trees, or a variety of trees. What is being planted tells as much of a story as that which has been planted over the years. Horse Chestnut, Le Raincy, near Paris, France. In this picture we can clearly see how the trees are pruned top-to-bottom in a square fashion in the Paris suburb of Le Raincy. These Trees are Horse Chestnuts, and they line both sides of the street and go as far as the eye can see.
On many streets of Paris, there are few to no trees. There is little room for them. Horse Chestnut, Le Raincy, near Paris, France. In this picture we can clearly see how the trees are pruned top-to-bottom in a square fashion in the Paris suburb of Le Raincy. These Trees are Horse Chestnuts, and they line both sides of the street and go as far as the eye can see.
According to The Flower Expert, numerous other species of plants grow in Paris. Gourdon flowers are small, native purple wildflowers found in the city's park and surrounding countryside. Other Plants. According to The Flower Expert, numerous other species of plants grow in Paris. Gourdon flowers are small, native purple wildflowers found in the city's park and surrounding countryside. Gardeners use Gourdon flowers much like ornamental ivy, growing on and around walls.
Herbs. Herbs are valuable plants, given their myriad uses in the culinary arts. Rosemary, a blue-flowered plant that grows in France as well as North America, is one of the most widely used herbs. Pineapple sage is another herb that grows in abundance in France. This fruity-scented plant has bright red flowers and is commonly used as a garnish. People have been altering the landscape of Western Europe for their own purposes for centuries, but despite all of this, the region retains a diversity of plant life. France, in particular, has rich and varied flora.
Iris. The iris is a plant that grows well in Paris. Known for its showy purple and yellow blooms, the bearded flower, known as the fleur-de-lis, is also the national symbol of France, according to The Flower Expert. Irises grow best in USDA hardiness zones 4 to 10 and require full to partial sunlight. Other Plants. According to The Flower Expert, numerous other species of plants grow in Paris. Gourdon flowers are small, native purple wildflowers found in the city's park and surrounding countryside. Gardeners use Gourdon flowers much like ornamental ivy, growing on and around walls.
A wide variety of plants and animals. France’s generally mild climate, ample rainfall, variety of elevations, and long growing season, offer habitat for many species of plants and animals. Centuries of human settlement have profoundly altered the land and greatly reduced the number and diversity of indigenous species. 
Plant life is dependent on climate, so France's flora ranges from small grasses and wildflowers in the mountainous alpine regions, to the fir, spruce and mountain pine trees in the coniferous forests, and the oak, beech and chestnut trees of the lower-elevation deciduous forests. Wild boars also live in French forest land. Many smaller mammals, including hares, foxes, marmots, badgers and beavers, are common in wilder places, and even larger predators, like brown bears and lynx exist in very small, endangered populations in France.
They grow well in moist parts of the France, and are also grown throughout gardens in the metropolitan areas. Clematis is a flowering vine plant that thrives in the sunniest parts of France, and is planted along fences and buildings throughout the country. The clematis can be of the evergreen variety, or a seasonally blooming perennial plant.