Shrublands are dominated by woody or herbaceous shrubs. Rainfall in tropical and subtropical grasslands, savannas, and shrublands is between 500 and 1300 millimeters (20 to 50 inches) a year, and can be highly seasonal, with the entire year's rainfall sometimes occurring within a couple of weeks.
A savanna or savannah is a grassland ecosystem characterised by the trees being sufficiently widely spaced so that the canopy does not close. Savannas are also characterised by seasonal water availability, with the majority of rainfall confined to one season; they are associated with several types of biomes, and are frequently in a transitional zone between forest and desert or grassland. Savanna covers approximately 20% of the Earth's land area.
Plants Animals Climate Australian Tropical Savanna African Savanna A savanna is a rolling grassland scattered with shrubs and isolated trees, which can be found between a tropical rainforest and desert biome. Not enough rain falls on a savanna to support forests. Climate. Australian Tropical Savanna. African Savanna. A savanna is a rolling grassland scattered with shrubs and isolated trees, which can be found between a tropical rainforest and desert biome.
1 Grasses and trees-The Savanna is a grassland with scattered trees and shrubs. 2  Rainy and dry seasons-Savannas have two seasons in regards to precipitation. 3  There is a rainy season in the summer with around 15 to 25 inches of rain and a dry season in the winter when only a couple of inches of rain may fall. 
Savanna. Savanna is grassland with scattered individual trees. Savannas of one sort or another cover almost half the surface of Africa (about five million square miles, generally central Africa) and large areas of Australia, South America, and India. Climate is the most important factor in creating a savanna. Grasslands are characterized as lands dominated by grasses rather than large shrubs or trees. In the Miocene and Pliocene Epochs, which spanned a period of about 25 million years, mountains rose in western North America and created a continental climate favorable to grasslands.
Tropical grassland. Tropical grasslands include the savanna usually associated with Africa, and savanna-type grasslands found in India, Australia, Nepal and the Americas. They are characterised by drought-resistant shrubs and grasses, dotted with trees such as acacias or baobabs. 
The savanna biome is mostly made up of grass but there are a few trees. Because of the availability of grass in the savanna, there are many grazing animals who take advantage of this abundant food supply. The savanna biome is rich with herbivores such as elephants, zebras, gazelles, and buffalo. The largest part of the savanna biome is located in Africa.
SAVANNAH GRASSLANDS. Savannah grasslands are hot, dry expanses of land. Most are covered in long grasses and have only a few, scattered trees. Savannah grasslands have very long, hot, dry seasons followed by short rainy seasons every year. In summer the average temperature of a savannah grassland is 27oC whilst in winter it is 18oC
Savannas are also known as tropical grasslands. They are found in a wide band on either side of the equator on the edges of tropical rainforests. Savannas have warm temperature year round. There are actually two very different seasons in a savanna; a very long dry season (winter), and a very wet season (summer). Climate. Australian Tropical Savanna. African Savanna. A savanna is a rolling grassland scattered with shrubs and isolated trees, which can be found between a tropical rainforest and desert biome. Not enough rain falls on a savanna to support forests