Keys F1-F12 on Toshiba laptops can behave in one of two manners: 1  Standard F1-F12 Mode: Press the function key by itself to use standard F1-F12 functions. 2  Hold FN first to use special functions. 3  Special Function Mode: Press the function key by itself
1 Turn on the computer. 2  Press the F10 key to enter the BIOS setup window. 3  Use the arrow keys to navigate to the System Configuration option. 4  Enter the Action Keys Mode option, and then press the enter key to display the Enable / Disable menu.
1 Standard F1-F12 Mode: Press the function key by itself to use standard F1-F12 functions. 2  Hold FN first to use special functions. 3  Special Function Mode: Press the function key by itself to use special functions. 4  Hold FN first
How to use Toshiba Function (Fn) keys. There is a row of Function keys at the top of the keyboard on every Toshiba notebook. These give you quick access to some useful functions. To activate them, just press the FN button on the keyboard together with the function key to activate the following commands.
Keys F1-F12 on Toshiba laptops can behave in one of two manners: 1  Standard F1-F12 Mode: Press the function key by itself to use standard F1-F12 functions. 2  Special Function Mode: Press the function key by itself to use special
Disable or enable fn in the BIOS. To disable, or enable, the function key (fn) in the BIOS, do the following steps. Press the power button to turn on the computer. Press the f10 key to open the BIOS setup window. Press the right-arrow or left-arrow keys to navigate to the System Configuration option. Figure: BIOS setup window. Press the up-arrow or down-arrow keys to navigate to the Action Keys Mode option, and then press the enter key to display the Enable / Disable menu.
Disabled: Requires pressing and holding the function key (fn) while pressing one of the f1 through f12 keys to use the action indicated on the action key. For example, on some computer models, if the Action Keys Mode is Disabled, pressing the f11 key will minimize and maximize a web browser if open.
1. 1  Turn on the computer. 2  Press the F10 key to enter the BIOS setup window. 3  Use the arrow keys to navigate to the System Configuration option. 4  Enter the Action Keys Mode option, and then press the enter key to display the Enable / Disable menu.
Most modern laptops retain the Fn key, but it's used primarily to activate special laptop functions. These functions share other keys on the keyboard, typically the Function keys. They're marked by special icons and are color coded to match the Fn key.