A diaconia was originally an establishment built near a church building, for the care of the poor and distribution of the church's charity in medieval Rome or Naples (the successor to the Roman grain supply system, often standing on the very sites of its stationes annonae). Examples included the sites of San Vito, Santi Alessio e Bonifacio, and Sant'Agatha in Rome, San Gennaro in Naples (headed by a deacon named John in the end of the ninth and the beginning of the tenth century. The word has now come to mean the titular church of a Cardinal Deacon.
Core values. Diakonia has identified six core values to guide us as an organization and as individuals within the organization. These values are firmly rooted in the Christian tradition and our way of interpreting the Christian faith, but are not exclusive to Christianity.
The word diakonia, service, may express that service which one man renders to another -- Luke 10, 40, with much serving; or specially the service rendered to Christians, 1 Cor. 16, 15, addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints; or the official service of the ministry. The Apostles, in order to meet the complaints of the Hellenistic Jews that, their widows were neglected in the daily ministrations (diakonia), called together the multitude of the disciples and said: It is not reason that we should leave the word of God and serve (diakonein) tables.
The word DIAKONIA is a Greek word meaning Service, usually pertaining to service in the Church. The purpose of the Antiochian Women’s organization is primarily spirituality and humanitarian service. In the words of our beloved Metropolitan Philip of Blessed Repose, it is Theology in action.. 
Also in contemporary theology the word diakonia presents a variety of connotations and representations. For FLD (Diakonal Lutherans Foundation in Brazil) [1] , diakonia means serve to change people's lives, to contribute to the construction of citizenship of the less fortunate. Examples included the sites of San Vito, Santi Alessio e Bonifacio, and Sant'Agatha in Rome, San Gennaro in Naples (headed by a deacon named John in the end of the ninth and the beginning of the tenth century. The word has now come to mean the titular church of a Cardinal Deacon.
Diakonia. Diakonia is a two year process of spiritual formation and theological education for baptized members of the Lutheran Church. This process occurs in three basic ways: 1  By thorough grounding in the classic seminary disciplines of practical, systematic, historical, and Biblical theology; These are the tools Diakonia uses to help equip God’s people for service in parish and neighborhood ministries. The primary theme and focus of the Diakonia experience is the word of Jesus in scripture (e.g. Mark 10:43): “Let the one who would be great among you be your servant (Greek: Diakonos).
HELPS Word-studies. Cognate: 1248 diakonia – diakonía; ministry active, service done with a (willing) voluntary. Attitude see (1249). Diakonos for the, believer /1248 (diakonia) diakonía ministry specifically Refers-to spirit empowered service guided (by /faith, 4102 Pistis'pístis the lord ). s inbirthed persuasion c. of the ministration or service of all who, endowed by God with powers of mind and heart peculiarly adapted to this end, endeavor zealously and laboriously to promote the cause of Christ among men, as apostles, prophets, evangelists, elders, etc.: 1 Corinthians 12:5; Ephesians 4:12; 2 Timothy 4:5.
The Church, the ecclesia, is called to speak Christ to the nations. 1 The Church exists for the speaking of the word of God that the kingdom may come. This is her primary service, her diakonia, and by this mission her vocation is defined. Unless the Church is servant, she has no justification for her existence. She is nothing without diakonia, her mission. 
With regard to the educational forum, the diakonia of truth takes on a heightened significance in societies where secularist ideology drives a wedge between truth and faith. Archive 2008-04-13. The common thread is service diakonia and generally churches refer back to Acts 6:1-6 for the origin of deacons. The Apostles, in order to meet the complaints of the Hellenistic Jews that, their widows were neglected in the daily ministrations (diakonia), called together the multitude of the disciples and said: It is not reason that we should leave the word of God and serve (diakonein) tables.
The biblical Greek word for service. As such it applies to all manner of ministry (official) or assistance (unofficial) that a person may perform or render either to the Church in general or to some private individual. 