Rightfully, Dover Castle in England is Kent's biggest tourist attraction and one of the most visited castles in the UK. It's a great day-trip from London, or stop-off from a ferry to France. It's also a popular stop-over for cruises touring Europe. It's all down to location, location, location. In the narrowest section of the straights of Dover, it's just 21 miles between England and France: you can comfortably see France on a clear day. Evidently, the castle's well-placed to be the guard-post of England.
The Castle was first built, entirely out of clay. It collapsed to the ground and the clay was then used as the flooring for many of the ground-floor rooms. Dover Castle is a medieval castle in Dover, Kent. It was founded in the 11th century and has been described as the Key to England due to its defensive significance throughout history. 
Dover Castle is located in Kent, England, overlooking the seaport at the narrowest part of the English Channel. Occupation of the site has been traced to the Iron Age. 
Dover Castle, Dover. Dover Castle is the oldest fort in England and has been strategic in the countrys defence even up to and including WW1 and WW2. Originally strengthened from an Anglo-Saxon fort in 1066 by William the Conqueror with futher additions made by Henry II and Henry VIII. 
Dover castle is located in Dover, Kent, England. The castles Post code is CT16 1HU‎ In the county of Kent, UK. 
Dover Castle, England, is an incredible historical site that perches on the dramatic white cliffs of the English channel. Unlike any other castle in England, Dover has played an important role in British history for more than 950 years. It was one of the first Norman castles in England, established in 1066. It's all down to location, location, location. In the narrowest section of the straights of Dover, it's just 21 miles between England and France: you can comfortably see France on a clear day. Evidently, the castle's well-placed to be the guard-post of England.
The castle guards the shortest crossing point to continental Europe. (It is only 21 miles (34 km) between Dover and France.). Dover castle's location, over looking the Straits of Dover, has meant that it has played an important part in guarding Britain from invaders. There has been a castle on this spot since 1066, but it is likely there has been some kind of fort on the site for over 2,000 years. 
Dover Castle. Dover, Kent, CT16 1HU. Dover Castle is one of the most strategic castles in England, and is on a site that has existed for over a 1000 years, first with a Roman lighthouse, an Anglo-Saxon church, and a castle since the Norman invasion of 1066.
Dover Castle is located on the cliffs of Dover, on the eastern outskirts of Dover town centre in Kent. Dover Castle’s location is a central aspect of this history. Perched high on the England’s coastal white cliffs overlooking the shortest crossing between the island and mainland Europe, Dover Castle has been seen as the first line of defence from invasion.
visitor information. Directions to Dover Castle : Dover Castle is located on the cliffs of Dover, on the eastern outskirts of Dover town centre in Kent. The nearest train station is Dover Priory Railway Station which can be reached from London’s Charing Cross and Victoria stations within 2hrs. Dover Castle’s location is a central aspect of this history. Perched high on the England’s coastal white cliffs overlooking the shortest crossing between the island and mainland Europe, Dover Castle has been seen as the first line of defence from invasion.