How to Make Lye. Lye, also known as NaOH, sodium hydroxide, or caustic soda, is used in making soap and in biodiesel fuel production. 
Pellets of sodium hydroxide. A lye is a liquid obtained by leaching ashes (containing largely potassium carbonate or potash), or a strong alkali which is highly soluble in water producing caustic basic solutions. 
Making the lye. Drill a lot of holes in the bottom of a small wooden barrel, make sure it's waterproof before you drill the holes! Stand the barrel on blocks leaving space beneath the barrel for a container. Use a waterproof wood or glass container. Making Lye Water. If you are going to use a large barrel or drum to make the lye water in, and it has a tap or hole at the right, place some kind of filter on the inside of the barrel around the opening. Fill the barrel with white ashes to about four inches (10 cm or 0.1 metre) below the top.
Making lye from wood ash. Lye made from wood ash is potassium hydroxide, not sodium hydroxide -- there's 10 times as much potassium as sodium in wood ash. The process makes lye water. Making Lye Water. If you are going to use a large barrel or drum to make the lye water in, and it has a tap or hole at the right, place some kind of filter on the inside of the barrel around the opening. Fill the barrel with white ashes to about four inches (10 cm or 0.1 metre) below the top.
Lye in Acid-Base Chemistry. Let us first try to understand what lye is through acid-base chemistry. Lye is the common name for sodium hydroxide, one of the strongest bases in nature, a chemical compound that can dissolve fats. 
Medical Definition of LYE. 1. : a strong alkaline liquor rich in potassium carbonate leached from wood ashes and used especially in making soap and washing; broadly: a strong alkaline solution (as of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide). 2. : a solid caustic (as sodium hydroxide). Full Definition of LYE. 1. : a strong alkaline liquor rich in potassium carbonate leached from wood ashes and used especially in making soap and for washing; broadly: a strong alkaline solution (as of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide). 2.
Handmade Lye Soap. Pure lye soap made in small batches and hand cut. Choose from three varieties: Old Fashioned Lye soap, Milk and Honey Soap, Olive Oil and Shea soap. Each bar weighs at least four ounces. Available scented or unscented. 
Lye, also known as sodium hydroxide, is a key ingredient in the soap making reaction called saponification. Although this chemical is essential to produce mild handmade soaps, the substance in an unadulterated form is extremely alkaline and caustic. The ashes used in this process must be white ashes only. Before you Buy Lye. As a soap maker, buying lye is best done in bulk because of its cost effectiveness. When you purchase the sodium hydroxide, it will come in a dry form. The proper amount of water must be added before it's ready to be used in the soap making reaction.