The connotation of a word refers to the emotional or cultural association with that word rather than its dictionary definition. The connotation definition is therefore not the explicit meaning of the word, but rather the meaning that the word implies. Connotation comes from the Latin word “connotare,” which means, “to mark in addition.”. In some cases, connotation can also be similar to symbolism as it hinges on culturally-accepted meanings.
Denotation is a translation of a sign to its meaning, precisely to its literal meaning, more or less like dictionaries try to define it. Denotation is sometimes contrasted to connotation, which translates a sign to meanings associated with it. The denotation of this example is a red rose with a green stem. The connotation is that it is a symbol of passion and love – this is what the rose represents. The denotation is a brown cross. The connotation is a symbol of religion, according to the media connotation.
Connote redirects here. For Connote number, see Waybill. A connotation is a commonly understood cultural or emotional association that some word or phrase carries, in addition to the word's or phrase's explicit or literal meaning, which is its denotation. These could include the contrast of a word or phrase with its primary, literal meaning (known as a denotation), with what that word or phrase specifically denotes. The connotation essentially relates to how anything may be associated with a word or phrase, for example, an implied value judgment or feelings.
Connotation Definition. Connotation refers to a meaning that is implied by a word apart from the thing which it describes explicitly. Words carry cultural and emotional associations or meanings in addition to their literal meanings or denotations. For example, the words childish, childlike and youthful have the same denotative but different connotative meanings. Childish and childlike have a negative connotation as they refer to immature behavior of a person. Whereas, youthful implies that a person is lively and energetic.
A. Connotation is the literal meaning of a word, while denotation is the figurative meaning. B. Connotation is the implied meaning of a word and/or the emotional associations with it, while denotation is the dictionary definition. C. Connotation is the positive association with a word, while denotation is the negative association with it. The connotation definition is therefore not the explicit meaning of the word, but rather the meaning that the word implies. Connotation comes from the Latin word “connotare,” which means, “to mark in addition.”. In some cases, connotation can also be similar to symbolism as it hinges on culturally-accepted meanings.
There are also words that have neutral connotations. Child has a relatively neutral connotation, while little one has a positive connotation and brat is negative. When trying to recognize the connotation of a word, go with your gut. You can usually tell just by reading it if the word is associated with positive or negative emotions, or with no emo
1. an act or instance of connoting. 2. the associated or secondary meaning of a word or expression in addition to its explicit or primary meaning: The word home often has the connotation “a place of warmth and affection.” Compare denotation (def. 1). 3. intension (def. 5).
Connotation and denotation are opposite concepts. The denotation of a word is its literal meaning, whereas the connotation is an implicit meaning. As a mnemonic to remember the difference, it can be helpful to note that “denotation” and “dictionary definition” all start with the same letter. The connotation definition is therefore not the explicit meaning of the word, but rather the meaning that the word implies. Connotation comes from the Latin word “connotare,” which means, “to mark in addition.”. In some cases, connotation can also be similar to symbolism as it hinges on culturally-accepted meanings.
Best Answer: Connotation is the tone or emotional association that a word has. It can be negative or positive, but is usually something seen by the population in general. For example, slim and scrawny both mean that a person is thin. Child has a relatively neutral connotation, while little one has a positive connotation and brat is negative. When trying to recognize the connotation of a word, go with your gut.