Eicosanoids are an extremely complex group of organic molecules that have a number of functions in the body. Derived from fatty acids, they are signaling molecules, with a short half-life, that control a number of different pathways. 
A. Eicosanoids are a family of powerful, hormone-like compounds produced in the body from Essential Fatty Acids... Eicosanoids are compounds that include prostaglandins, prostacyclins, leukotrienes, and thromboxanes, which are responsible for many of the beneficial effects of the good fats. However, some eicosanoids, such as those derived from Arachidonic Acid, are potentially harmful if excessive amounts build up in the body. 
The networks of controls that depend upon eicosanoids are among the most complex in the human body. Eicosanoids are derived from either omega-3 (ω-3) or omega-6 (ω-6) fatty acids. In general, the ω-6 eicosanoids are pro-inflammatory; ω-3s are much less so. The amounts and balance of these fats in a person's diet will affect the body's eicosanoid-controlled functions, with effects on cardiovascular disease, triglycerides, blood pressure, and arthritis. Eicosanoid biosynthesis begins when a cell is activated by mechanical trauma, cytokines, growth factors or other stimuli. (The stimulus may even be an eicosanoid from a neighboring cell; the pathways are complex.) This triggers the release of a phospholipase at the cell membrane.
Eicosanoids are sorta like hormones, in that they act like little messengers telling your body what to do and how to do it. Unlike hormones, though, there is no organ in your body that secretes them. They’re actually released when you eat certain types of foods. 
Eicosanoids are often thought of as local hormones. They have a variety of effects on your body. In this lesson, you will learn about the functions of three important eicosanoids: prostaglandins, thromboxanes, and leukotrienes. Eicosanoids work like hormones, but they do not like to travel. Eicosanoids go by the nickname 'local hormones' because they act on cells close to their site of production. Eicosanoids also rapidly break down, so they are not able to travel very far.
What Are Eicosanoids? Eicosanoids are super hormones because they affect the synthesis of virtually every other hormone in one s body. Eicosanoids are the body s cellular check and balance system. Eicosanoids are controlled by dietary fat and insulin. In other words, eicosanoids can be controlled if one is consuming the correct amount of Omega-6 and Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and controlling a good hormonal balance between insulin and glucagon. Eicosanoids come from the Greek word eicosa which means twenty.
Most eicosanoids are produced from arachidonic acid, which is a polyunsaturated fatty acid that you get from eating foods like animal fats. They have many effects on your body, including inflammation, fever promotion, blood pressure regulation, and blood clotting. Eicosanoids work like hormones, but they do not like to travel. Eicosanoids go by the nickname 'local hormones' because they act on cells close to their site of production. Eicosanoids also rapidly break down, so they are not able to travel very far.
Medical Definition of EICOSANOID. : any of a class of compounds (as the prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and thromboxanes) derived from polyunsaturated fatty acids (as arachidonic acid) and involved in cellular activity. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about eicosanoid. Definition of EICOSANOID. : any of a class of compounds (as the prostaglandins) derived from polyunsaturated fatty acids (as arachidonic acid) and involved in cellular activity. ADVERTISEMENT.
There are multiple subfamilies of eicosanoids, including the prostaglandins, thromboxanes, and leukotrienes, as well as the lipoxins and eoxins, and others. For each, there are two or three separate series, derived from either an ω-3 or an ω-6 EFA. Eicosanoid biosynthesis begins when a cell is activated by mechanical trauma, cytokines, growth factors or other stimuli. (The stimulus may even be an eicosanoid from a neighboring cell; the pathways are complex.) This triggers the release of a phospholipase at the cell membrane.
Eicosanoids. The essential fatty acids omega-3 and omega-6 are transformed in the body into hormones called eicosanoids, e.g. prostaglandin is an eicosanoid. They all have 20 carbon atoms, and the name comes from the Greek word eikos which means 20. There are also other things that determine the balance between good and bad eicosanoids, such as the hormones insulin and glucagon. A diet consisting of a high amount of carbohydrates-especially fast carbohydrates-creates too much insulin in the body. This means that there will be an over-production of bad e