Cialis, Levit ra, Staxyn, Stendra, and Viagra work by a similar mechanism to cause erections. There are subtle differences in how long the drug works and how quickly it works. Levitra works a little longer than Viagra. They both take effect in about 30 minutes. With Levitra, the effects last for about 5 hours. With Viagra, the effects last approximately 4 hours. Cialis works a bit faster (within about 15 minutes), and the effects last much longer -- up to 36 hours in some cases. Stendra can start working in as little as 15 minutes and last up to 6 hours. 
CIALIS for daily use (2.5 mg, 5 mg) 1 week to help improve ED You may be able to have successful intercourse in as early as 4 to 5 days, or you may get results earlier If you are not satisfied, talk to your doctor, who may recommend an adjustment to your CIALIS dosage. Do not take CIALIS more than one time each day. 10 mg, 20 mg) at the same time. If you are taking one of the CIALIS dosing options and would like to start taking the other, talk to your doctor before discontinuing use You should not take any other ED treatment while taking CIALIS.
Do not take CIALIS for daily use (2.5 mg, 5 mg) and CIALIS for use as needed (5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg) at the same time. If you are taking one of the CIALIS dosing options and would like to start taking the other, talk to your doctor before discontinuing use You should not take any other ED treatment while taking CIALIS.
CIALIS for use as needed (5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg) A tablet that you take as needed One 20-mg tablet works in as little as 30 minutes in some men*† One dose can work for up to 36 hours*‡ The recommended starting dose for CIALIS for use as needed in most patients is10 mg Do not take CIALIS more than one time each day. 10 mg, 20 mg) at the same time. If you are taking one of the CIALIS dosing options and would like to start taking the other, talk to your doctor before discontinuing use You should not take any other ED treatment while taking CIALIS.
You may be able to have sexual activity at 30 minutes after taking CIALIS and up to 36 hours after taking it. You and your healthcare provider should consider this in deciding when you should take CIALIS before sexual activity. 
Best Answer: With viagra cialis or levitra you are getting back ready very soon after you ejaculate. Cialis, Levitra, and Viagra work by a similar mechanism to cause erections. There are subtle differences in how long the drug works and how quickly it works. Levitra works a little longer than Viagra. They both take effect in about 30 minutes. With Levitra, the effects last for about 5 hours. With Viagra, the effects last approximately 4 hours. Cialis works a bit faster (within about 15 minutes), and the effects last much longer -- up to 36 hours in some cases. I was diagnosed with severe erectile dysfunction and was prescribed Viagra. I used to consume about 4-6 pills a week in average which cost me around $300 a month. 
This time I'm taking Cialis. Viagra works faster than Cialis which takes 1-2 hours to get to their maximum levels but Cialis lasts much longer, an effective time of 36-72 hours compared to Viagra 4-8 hours. Taking 10mg helped me hard for about 16 hours. Taking 20mg gave me like over 2 days worth. Cialis will work if your slightly aroused, it mainly works from stimulation though. I can literally feel my dick sucking blood into it after maybe 15-20 seconds of gentle stroking.
In clinical studies, Cialis began to work in as little as 30 minutes. For most people, though, it begins working within one hour. There are a number of factors that can increase or decrease how long Cialis lasts. Some factors that increase the amount of time Cialis stays in the body include severe kidney disease or liver disease (such as cirrhosis) and certain other medicines (see Cialis Drug Interactions) . Many people considering taking Cialis ® (tadalafil) wonder, How long does Cialis last?. The answer depends on a number of factors and will vary between individuals. However, in most people, Cialis will last for about 36 hours
VIAGRA works for men with erectile dysfunction (ED) by increasing blood flow to the penis so you can get and keep an erection hard enough for sex. Individual results may vary. It’s been proven to help guys with all degrees of ED. VIAGRA usually starts to work within 30–60 minutes. 