Topographic map of Perth and Kinross. Perth and Kinross (Scots: Pairth an Kinross, Scottish Gaelic: Peairt agus Ceann Rois) is one of the 32 council areas of Scotland and a Lieutenancy Area. This article is about the Scottish local government area. For the former UK Parliamentary constituency abolished in 1997, see Perth and Kinross (UK Parliament constituency) .
Kinross-shire. Kinross-shire is a small county measuring, barely 15 miles from west to east 9 miles from north to south. Ringed with hills, the Lomonds to the east, the Ochils to the west and Benarty Hill to the south ensure pleasing views and plenty of opportunity for hill walking
KINROSS-SHIRE. KINROSS-SHIRE, inland Co. of Scotland; is bounded W. and N. by Perthshire, and E. and S. by Fifeshire; greatest length, N. and S., 10 miles; greatest breadth, E. and W., 12 miles; 46,485 ac.; pop. 6697. After Clackmannan, Kinross is the smallest Co. in Scotland. The Co. contains 4 pars. and 3 parts, the police burgh of Kinross, the vil. of Milnathort, and part of the vil. of Kelty. The cos. of Kinross and Clackmannan jointly return 1 member to Parliament.. [ Bartholemew's Gazetteer of the British Isles, 1887 ]. The origin of the shire of Kinross is lost in antiquity. Sir Robert Sibbald, writing at the close of the seventeenth century, says that it was made a distinct shire from Fife about the year 1426 and contained then only the parishes of Kinross, Orwell and Portmoak
Scotland's second smallest county, Kinross-shire is dominated by Loch Leven, a large inland loch, with two islands and an internationally important nature reserve. One of the islands contains a castle, where Mary, Queen of Scots was once held prisoner. The county was anciently divided into a number of parishes: Cleish, Orwell (containing the market town of Milnathort), Kinross and Portmoak were entirely in Kinross-shire. The parishes of Arngask, Fossoway, Tulliebole and Forgandenny were partly in Perthshire.
The County of Kinross is a historic county in eastern Scotland, administratively part of Perth and Kinross. Surrounding its largest settlement and county town of Kinross, the county borders Perthshire to the north, Fife to the east and south, and Clackmannanshire to the west. The county was anciently divided into a number of parishes: Cleish, Orwell (containing the market town of Milnathort), Kinross and Portmoak were entirely in Kinross-shire. The parishes of Arngask, Fossoway, Tulliebole and Forgandenny were partly in Perthshire.
In addition, it outperformed both the Perth and Kinross area and Scotland averages in economic performance. The area is promoted by the Kinross-shire Partnership, a body bringing together local government, tourist organisations and local organisations. The county was anciently divided into a number of parishes: Cleish, Orwell (containing the market town of Milnathort), Kinross and Portmoak were entirely in Kinross-shire. The parishes of Arngask, Fossoway, Tulliebole and Forgandenny were partly in Perthshire.
In 1996 there was another local government reorganisation, Tayside was disolved and Kinross-shire became part of Perth & Kinross District. Information is available about the towns and villages with names accompanied by a green square. Kinross-shire is a small county measuring, barely 15 miles from west to east 9 miles from north to south.
Kinross-shire contained only one burgh, Kinross. The burgh was originally created a burgh of barony in 1540/1 and became a burgh of regality in 1685. In 1864 it became a police burgh with an elected town council. The county was anciently divided into a number of parishes: Cleish, Orwell (containing the market town of Milnathort), Kinross and Portmoak were entirely in Kinross-shire. The parishes of Arngask, Fossoway, Tulliebole and Forgandenny were partly in Perthshire.
It corresponds broadly, but not exactly, with the former counties of Perthshire and Kinross-shire. Perthshire and Kinross-shire had a joint county council from 1929 until 1975. This article is about the Scottish local government area. For the former UK Parliamentary constituency abolished in 1997, see Perth and Kinross (UK Parliament constituency) .