Grill with just a pinch of patience – over direct, medium heat for about 10 minutes – and you'll be rewarded with juicy, succulent chicken breasts. And, if you want to plate up breasts that are even more flavorful try grilling free range chicken.
1 Chill and marinade for 4 hours. 2  Grill chicken on a well oiled grill until well browned on all sides, turning once, 30 to 40 minutes (meat near thigh bones should no longer be pink when tested with the tip of a knife).
1 Lightly sprinkle chicken on all side to taste. 2  Let rest at room temperature until grill is ready. 3  Check grill temp if possible and place chicken on grill. 4  Flip every 5-7 minutes until internal temp of 185-190 degrees.
Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes.
Cover the grill again and allow to cook for another 15-20 minutes. Repeat, turning the chicken pieces over, basting them with sauce, covering, and cooking for another 10-30 minutes. NOTE that timing will depend on your grill set-up, the size of your chicken pieces, and how cold your chicken pieces are to start with!
1 Then (if possible) place chicken legs on a top rack for indirect heat with the bbq side of the leg down and the none bbq'd side up. 2  Spread the other side with bbq now and let the bbq really caramelize onto the legs for 5-10mins on indirect heat.(if you dont have a top rack, just reduce this time to 3 to 5mins).
Directions. 1  Mix all marinade ingredients in a zip lock bag add chicken. 2  Chill and marinade for 4 hours. 3  Grill chicken on a well oiled grill until well browned on all sides, turning once, 30 to 40 minutes (meat near thigh bones should no longer be pink when tested with the tip of a knife). 4  FYI.
Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill.
1 Mix all marinade ingredients in a zip lock bag add chicken. 2  Chill and marinade for 4 hours. 3  Grill chicken on a well oiled grill until well browned on all sides, turning once, 30 to 40 minutes (meat near thigh bones should no longer be pink when tested with the tip of a knife). 4  FYI.