The main symptoms -- fever, muscle aches, swollen and painful joints, and in some cases, a red, lattice-like rash -- typically begin two to four weeks after a bout of strep. In some cases, though, the infection may have been too mild to have been recognized. Rheumatic fever results from an inflammatory reaction to certain group A streptococcusbacteria. The body produces antibodies to fight the bacteria, but instead the antibodies attack a different target: the body's own tissues. The antibodies begin with the joints and often move on to the heart and surrounding tissues.
1 Rheumatic fever is a complication of a streptococcal pharyngitis infection (strep throat) that can cause damage to the heart, joints, brain, and skin. 2  The most serious complication of rheumatic fever is rheumatic heart disease (RHD). Rheumatic Fever Facts. 1  Rheumatic fever is a complication of a streptococcal pharyngitis infection (strep throat) that can cause damage to the heart, joints, brain, and skin. 2  The most serious complication of rheumatic fever is rheumatic heart disease (RHD). 3  Rheumatic fever is preventable by treating strep throat with antibiotics, usually penicillin.
Rheumatic fever (acute rheumatic fever or ARF) is an autoimmune disease that may occur after a group A streptococcal throat infection that causes inflammatory lesions in connective tissue, especially that of the heart, joints, blood vessels, and subcutaneous tissue. 1 Rheumatic fever affects the joints, heart, skin, and nervous system. 2  Antibiotics are used to treat the strep throat infection and may prevent development of rheumatic fever.
The onset of rheumatic fever usually occurs about two to four weeks after a strep throat infection. Rheumatic fever signs and symptoms — which result from inflammation in the heart, joints, skin or central nervous system — may include: 1  Fever. 2  Painful and tender joints — most often the ankles, knees, elbows or wrists; less often the shoulders, hips, hands and feet. 3  Pain in one joint that migrates to another joint. Proper treatment of strep can prevent rheumatic fever. Call your doctor if your child has any of the following signs or symptoms: 1  A sore throat without cold symptoms, such as a runny nose. 2  A sore throat accompanied by tender, swollen lymph glands (nodes).
Rheumatic Fever Overview. Rheumatic fever is a complication of strep throat caused by infections with group A streptococcal bacteria. After strep throat, some individuals can develop a second illness one to five weeks later with fever, joint pains, rash, and sometimes brain and heart problems. Rheumatic Fever Facts. 1  Rheumatic fever is a complication of a streptococcal pharyngitis infection (strep throat) that can cause damage to the heart, joints, brain, and skin. 2  The most serious complication of rheumatic fever is rheumatic heart disease (RHD). 3  Rheumatic fever is preventable by treating strep throat with antibiotics, usually penicillin.
Rheumatic fever, also known as acute rheumatic fever (ARF), is an inflammatory disease that can involve the heart, joints, skin, and brain. The disease typically develops two to four weeks after a throat infection. Signs and symptoms include fever, multiple painful joints, involuntary muscle movements, and a characteristic but uncommon non itchy rash known as erythema marginatum. The heart is involved in about half of cases.
Symptoms usually appear two to four weeks after your child has been diagnosed with strep throat. Common symptoms include: 1  fever. 2  painful/tender joints in the ankles, knees, elbows, and wrists. 3  pain in one joint that moves to another joint. 4  red, hot, swollen joints. 5  small nodules (bumps) under the skin that don’t hurt. 6  chest pain. 7  rapid fluttering or pounding chest palpitations. If your child has any of the following symptoms, a strep test is needed: 1  sore throat or sore throat with tender and swollen lymph nodes. 2  rash. 3  trouble swallowing. 4  thick, bloody discharge from nose.
The symptoms of rheumatic fever usually develop one to five weeks after a streptococcal throat infection. 
The symptoms of rheumatic heart disease vary and damage to the heart often is not readily noticeable. When symptoms do appear, they may depend on the extent and location of the heart damage. Typically, symptoms of rheumatic fever appear about two weeks after the onset of an untreated strep throat infection. Apart from the sore throat caused by the strep infection, children have a fever and feel ill.