Cardiomyopathy refers to diseases of the heart muscle. These diseases have many causes, signs and symptoms, and treatments. In cardiomyopathy, the heart muscle becomes enlarged, thick, or rigid. In rare cases, the muscle tissue in the heart is replaced with scar tissue. 
Muscle strain, muscle pull, or even a muscle tear refers to damage to a muscle or its attaching tendons. You can put undue pressure on muscles during the course of normal daily activities, with sudden heavy lifting, during sports, or while performing work tasks. 
If you’re experiencing any other symptoms that go along with the pain that is in your chest, you may possibly really be experiencing a heart attack. Heart attack symptoms are very similar to pulled chest muscle symptoms, but they could also have radiating pain that goes out into other parts of the physique. This would incorporate such factors as pain in the back, jaw, arms or even in the stomach. 
Symptoms of a Pulled Muscle Around the Heart. Symptoms of a pulled muscle around the heart are much like any other muscle, except that because of where the pain is, some people have mistaken the pain as heart trouble. There can be shooting pain, stabbing pain, a feeling of heat in the area, tenderness and tightness in the chest, and you may even see some swelling. Treatment For Pulled Muscles Around the Heart. Treatment for pulled chest muscles around the heart is straightforward. You will need to give up your physical exertion. If the injury happened while working out, you will need to rest the chest muscles for a while by not using them.
Chest pain caused by a pulled muscle is the result of trauma that can occur several days before the pain transpires. Consider any activities you have done recently that might result in a pulled muscle. Injury from direct trauma can cause tenderness of the chest wall muscles. Muscle Spasms/ Swelling. A pulled muscle due to strain or injury can also cause swelling in the chest area and muscle spasms. A muscle spasm is the result of inflammation caused by strain, causing the muscles to contract suddenly. Pain may also be present with muscle spasm
Pulled chest muscles can be serious and painful. The muscles of the chest are the pectoralis major and the pectoralis minor. The pectoralis minor muscle is smaller and less thick than the pectoralis major muscle and it lies just beneath it. The pectoralis major is the largest and thickest of the chest muscles. Grade I pulled chest muscles are the least severe. This grade typically affects only a few muscle fibers and nerves. The specific signs and symptoms associated with Grade I chest muscle pulls include mild: 1  chest pain and discomfort; 2  limitation of shoulder and arm movement; 3  swelling (edema);
Lower Back Strain Video. Lower back strain is caused by damage to the muscles and ligaments of the back. Learn about muscle anatomy and the symptoms of lower back strain. Back Strains and Sprains Video. A muscle strain or a muscle sprain in the back is the most common cause of back pain. 
A heart attack (acute myocardial infarction) is the most common cause of a myocardial rupture. The dead heart muscle is prone to tearing. A rupture may occur in as many as 10% of all heart attack cases. It is more common among females and in patients over the age of 60 years. 
A muscle strain, or pulled muscle, is when your muscle is overstretched or torn. This usually occurs as a result of fatigue, overuse, or improper use of a muscle. Strains can happen in any muscle, but are most common in your lower back, neck, shoulder, and hamstring (the muscle behind your thigh). A muscle strain causes pain and may limit movement within the affected muscle group.