DTS Connect is a blanket name for a two-part system used on the computer platform only, in order to convert PC audio into the DTS format, transported via a single S/PDIF cable. The two components of the system are DTS Interactive and DTS Neo:PC. This system is the consumer version of the DTS standard, using a similar codec without needing separate DTS CD-ROM media. Both music and movie DVDs allow delivery of DTS audio signal, but DTS was not part of the original DVD specification, so early DVD players do not recognize DTS audio tracks at all.
What is DTS format. DTS is a series of multichannel audio technologies (formerly known as Digital Theater Systems, Inc.), a company dedicatedly specializing in digital surround sound formats used for both commercial/theatrical and consumer grade applications. 3-channel stereo with mono surround (Left, Center, Right, Surround). 4-channel quadraphonic (Left, Right, Left Surround, Right Surround). 5-channel surrounding (Left, Center, Right, Left Surround, Right Surround). Generally speaking, DVD's audio is AC-3 or DTS format, which is featured 5.1 surround sound.
DTS Studio Sound is a program developed by DTS. The most used version is 1.01.2700, with over 98% of all installations currently using this version. Upon installation and setup, it defines an auto-start registry entry which makes this program run on each Windows boot for all user logins. 
Created in 1993 for the soundtrack of Steven Spielberg's blockbuster film Jurassic Park, DTS. surround sound quickly made its way onto Laserdiscs and then ultimately to DVD in the mid-1990s as a popular alternative to Dolby Digital. DTS, like Dolby Digital, is a lossy (compressed) surround sound format capable of discrete 5.1 and 6.1 channels of surround sound. DTS surround can flow via a standard digital cable unlike today's higher-resolution formats that require an HDMI cable. Most AV receivers and preamps can decode DTS surround tracks from legacy formats like DVD and even Laserdisc for those who still have the player and the specialty discs. With the advent of Blu-ray, DTS released new high-res and lossless formats, DTS-HD and DTS-HD Master Audio.
1 comment. READ MORE. DTS Sound Utility is a handy utility that was created to work only with the supported Toshiba notebooks and present users with the opportunity to adjust manually the sound quality. Using DTS Sound Utility it is possible to enhance the bass level, as well as that of the audio volume. 
DTS. Like Dolby Digital, DTS® provides 5.1 channels of digital audio. However, DTS uses less compression than Dolby Digital. As a result, some say that the sound produced by DTS is slightly more accurate than the sound produced by Dolby Digital. DTS-ES™ adds a discrete, full-bandwidth back surround channel. Dolby Digital EX and THX Surround EX. These formats add a matrixed back surround channel for a 6.1-channel speaker system. Many DVDs are encoded for Dolby Digital EX, and have the extra channel of surround information ready to go.
Like Dolby Atmos, DTS:X is a surround sound solution for both commercial theaters and home theaters. The system allows for individual sound objects — such as a helicopter, or a buzzing fly — to move freely throughout a hemispheric sonic space, constrained only by the imagination of the sound mixer. 
The audio compression used in the theatrical DTS system (which is very different and completely unrelated to the home Coherent Acoustics-based DTS Digital Surround format) is the APT-X100 system. Unlike the home version of DTS or any version of Dolby Digital, the APT-X100 system is fixed at a 4:1 compression ratio. This system is the consumer version of the DTS standard, using a similar codec without needing separate DTS CD-ROM media. Both music and movie DVDs allow delivery of DTS audio signal, but DTS was not part of the original DVD specification, so early DVD players do not recognize DTS audio tracks at all.
DTS is a series of multichannel audio technologies owned by DTS, Inc. (formerly known as D igital T heater S ystems, Inc.), an American company specializing in digital surround sound formats used for both commercial/theatrical and consumer grade applications. This system is the consumer version of the DTS standard, using a similar codec without needing separate DTS CD-ROM media. Both music and movie DVDs allow delivery of DTS audio signal, but DTS was not part of the original DVD specification, so early DVD players do not recognize DTS audio tracks at all.