Resolved Question: My right eye is swollen. The 'whites' of the eye are swollen very large and the actual eye/iris is not swollen. I thought I had a spec in my eye and rubbed it, then fell asleep for a half hour. Now it is extremely swollen. yes. Dr. A.S. Desai: Swelling of the white part of the eye(conjunctiva) is called conjunctival chemosis. It is just an edema due to excessive rubbing of the eye. It should subside on its own within a day or two. As long as there is no redness/pain or watering in that eye, the chemosis does not need any specific treatment
Resolved Question: My eye is swollen, and very red and irritated. The white part of the eye is very gooey, and sort of feels like it is falling out, but the cornea is still taut and seems fine. My eye is swollen, and very red and irritated. My eye is swollen, and very red and irritated. The white part of the eye is very gooey, and sort of feels like it is falling out, but the cornea is still taut and seems fine.
The white part. My eye is swollen, and very red and irritated. The white part of the eye is very gooey, and sort of feels like it is falling out, but the cornea is still taut and seems fine. My eye is swollen, and very red and irritated. My eye is swollen, and very red and irritated. The white part of the eye is very gooey, and sort of feels like it is falling out, but the cornea is still taut and seems fine.
We've all experienced red, bloodshot eyes from time to time, affecting one or both eyes. Red eye is caused by swollen or dilated blood vessels on the sclera, the white outer surface of the eye. Red eyes can be accompanied by eye pain, itching, eye discharge, swollen eyes or visual disturbances such as blurry vision. In other cases, a red eye may cause no irritation at all. 
Eye Swelling – Causes, Symptoms & Treatment. Swelling of the eyes, or eyelids, is a very common symptom among many people. Believe it or not there are over 70 causes of why ones eye swells. Some of the causes are rare, but most of them are due to allergies, Conjunctivitis and Blepharitis
1 Eye Infections – Eye infections often lead to swelling of the tissue surrounding the eyes and eyelids. 2  There are many types of infections caused by viruses or bacteria. 3  Blepharitis – This is a condition that causes inflammation within your eyelids. Swelling of the eyes, or eyelids, is a very common symptom among many people. Believe it or not there are over 70 causes of why ones eye swells. Some of the causes are rare, but most of them are due to allergies, Conjunctivitis and Blephariti
Conjunctivitis. Also called  pink eye , conjunctivitis is inflammation of the clear lining of the surface of the eye, called the conjunctiva. Allergic, bacterial and viral types of pink eye can all result in swollen eyelids, among other symptoms such as watery, red and itchy eyes. Styes. Swollen eyes can be painful and non-painful, and affect both the upper and lower eyelids. There are numerous causes of a swollen eye, including eye infections, eye injuries or trauma, and, most commonly, allergies.