How to Measure Dew Point. The dew point is the temperature at which air becomes saturated with water vapor after being cooled by the removal of sensible heat. In layman's terms, it is the temperature at which dew forms. The dew point is a saturation temperature and is directly related to the amount of water vapor in the air. Meteorologists use the dew point to calculate other weather variables including relative humidity and vapor pressure. 
The Dew Point is the temperature at which water vapor starts to condense out of the air (the temperature at which air becomes completely saturated). Above this temperature the moisture will stay in the air. 1  if the dew-point temperature is close to the dry air temperature-the relative humidity is high. 
The dew point is associated with relative humidity. A high relative humidity implies that the dew point is closer to the current air temperature. Relative humidity of 100% indicates the dew point is equal to the current temperature and that the air is maximally saturated with water. Other things being equal, as the temperature falls, the relative humidity rises, reaching 100% at the dew point, at least at ground level. Dew point temperature is never greater than the air temperature, since the relative humidity cannot exceed 100%.
In simpler terms: the dew point, or frost point, is the temperature at which dew or frost will form should the air temperature fall sufficiently. Other things being equal, as the temperature falls, the relative humidity rises, reaching 100% at the dew point, at least at ground level. Dew point temperature is never greater than the air temperature, since the relative humidity cannot exceed 100%.
If the temperature rises in conditions of constant pressure, then the dew point will remain constant but the relative humidity will drop. For this reason, a constant relative humidity (%) with different temperatures implies that when it's hotter, a higher fraction of the air is water vapor than when it's cooler. Other things being equal, as the temperature falls, the relative humidity rises, reaching 100% at the dew point, at least at ground level. Dew point temperature is never greater than the air temperature, since the relative humidity cannot exceed 100%.
where Td is dew point temperature (in degrees Celsius), T is observed temperature (in degrees Celsius), and RH is relative humidity (in percent). Apparently this relationship is fairly accurate for relative humidity values above 50%. More details can be found in the article: If you are interested in a simpler calculation that gives an approximation of dew point temperature if you know the observed temperature and relative humidity, the following formula was proposed in a 2005 article by Mark G. Lawrence in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society: Td = T - ((100 - RH)/5.).
Use this calculator to explore various combinations of temperature, RH, and dew point and compare the preservation quality of each environment. The dew point temperature determines what combinations of temperature and RH will be possible in the storage environment. At a constant dew point, when the temperature goes up, the RH goes down and when the temperature goes down, the RH goes up
That water is called dew. Dew point is the temperature at which the water vapor in the air under a constant barometric pressure will condense into liquid water. So, the dew point is a water-to-air saturation temperature. It is closely related to the relative humidity. At the same relative humidity value, the amount of water in air is different for different temperature. This is why pilots of airplanes use the dew point to calculate the likelihood of carburetor icing and fog, and to estimate the height of the cloud base.
Go Back. If the air is gradually cooled while maintaining the moisture content constant, the relative humidity will rise until it reaches 100%. This temperature, at which the moisture content in the air will saturate the air, is called the dew point. Relative humidity is the amount of moisture in the air compared to what the air can hold at that temperature. When the air can't hold all the moisture, then it condenses as dew.
Dew point is a measure of atmospheric moisture. It is the temperature to which air must be cooled to reach saturation (assuming air pressure and moisture content are constant). A higher dew point indicates more moisture present in the air. Other things being equal, as the temperature falls, the relative humidity rises, reaching 100% at the dew point, at least at ground level. Dew point temperature is never greater than the air temperature, since the relative humidity cannot exceed 100%.