Apply for your first provisional driving licence. Get your first provisional driving licence for a car, moped or motorcycle from. online. Apply using your Government Gateway ID. If you don’t have one or need to re-register, you’ll get an ID as part of your application.
After you pass your driving test, you will be issued a provisional driver license. With your provisional driver license, you must be accompanied and supervised by a licensed parent, guardian or other licensed driver 25 years of age or older, or by a licensed or certified driving instructor when you: 1  Transport passengers under 20 years of age at any time, for the first twelve months. With a provisional license, you can drive by yourself between the hours of 5 am and 11 pm. If you are under 18, you cannot be employed to drive a motor vehicle. When you turn 18 years of age, the provisional part of your license ends.
Apply online for your provisional driving licence. Apply for a provisional driving licence online .You require a valid UK passport no more than five years old and you won’t have to provide a photo. Online is quicker and cheaper than with a postal application. Complete a D1 Application for a Provisional Driving Licence available from the Post Office. Alternately go online to DVLA order forms and have the D1 Form sent in the post. Complete and return your application to DVLA, you will need to include a photo for your photo card. The licence should arrive within two weeks.
Effective January 1, 2006, these driving restrictions apply to you if you are under the age of 18 and: 1  Are issued a provisional driver license (DL) on or after January 1, 2006, or. 2  Already hold a provisional DL issued on or after January 1, 2005. With a provisional license, you can drive by yourself between the hours of 5 am and 11 pm. If you are under 18, you cannot be employed to drive a motor vehicle. When you turn 18 years of age, the provisional part of your license ends.
You can apply for a provisional driving licence when you’re 15 years and 9 months old. You can start driving when you’re: 1  17 if you want to drive a car. 2  16 if you want to ride a moped or light quad bike. Get your first provisional driving licence for a car, moped or motorcycle from. online. Apply using your Government Gateway ID. If you don’t have one or need to re-register, you’ll get an ID as part of your application.
Acceptable ID for your provisional driving licence application. 1  UK passport – If you have a valid UK passport no more than 5 years old you need only enter the passport number on the application to confirm your ID. 2  Other forms of ID. Complete a D1 Application for a Provisional Driving Licence available from the Post Office. Alternately go online to DVLA order forms and have the D1 Form sent in the post. Complete and return your application to DVLA, you will need to include a photo for your photo card. The licence should arrive within two weeks.
To get your first provisional driving licence online for a car, motorcycle or moped you must: 1  be a resident of Great Britain-there’s a different service in Northern Ireland. 2  meet the minimum age requirement. 3  meet the minimum eyesight requirement. Get your first provisional driving licence for a car, moped or motorcycle from. online. Apply using your Government Gateway ID. If you don’t have one or need to re-register, you’ll get an ID as part of your application.
The costs of your provisional licence will depend on how you apply. 1  Apply online and your provisional licence will cost £34. 2  A postal application for the driving licence will be £43. Complete a D1 Application for a Provisional Driving Licence available from the Post Office. Alternately go online to DVLA order forms and have the D1 Form sent in the post. Complete and return your application to DVLA, you will need to include a photo for your photo card. The licence should arrive within two weeks.
The fee for drivers applying for a provisional driving licence online will fall from £50 to £34 and online renewals after 10 years will fall from £20 to £14. The new fees, representing price cuts of up to 32%, begin on 31 October. 
Provisional Instruction Permits. If you are under 18 and at least 15 ½ you can apply for a provisional driver license. The first step to getting your license is to get your instruction permit. Because you are under 18, your permit and driver license are called, Provisional.. This means you have additional restrictions placed on your permit and driver license that adults (18 and over) do not have.