The pulmonary vein is the vessel transporting oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the left atrium. A common misconception is that all veins carry de-oxygenated blood. It is more appropriate to classify veins as vessels carrying blood to the heart. The pulmonary artery is the vessel transporting de-oxygenated blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. A common misconception is that all arteries carry oxygen-rich blood. It is more appropriate to classify arteries as vessels carrying blood away from
The vessels of the blood circulatory system are: Arteries. Blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body. Veins. Blood vessels that carry blood from the body back into the heart. Capillaries. Tiny blood vessels between arteries and veins that distribute oxygen-rich blood to the body. Blood moves through the circulatory system as a result of being pumped out by the heart. Blood leaving the heart through the arteries is saturated with oxygen. The vascular system, also called the circulatory system, is made up of the vessels that carry blood and lymph through the body. The arteries and veins carry blood throughout the body, delivering oxygen and nutrients to the body tissues and taking away tissue waste matter.
Arteries usually carry oxygen-rich blood. The exception is the pulmonary artery, which carries oxygen-poor blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. Arterioles are smaller arteries that carry oxygen-rich blood. The pulmonary veins, carrying blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart, are the only veins carrying oxygenated blood. Oxygen rich blood from the lungs is returned to the heart via the pulmonary vein.
Arteries. The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 3  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart.
1 The pulmonary veins carry oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the left side of the heart so it can be pumped to the body. 2  The superior and inferior vena cavae are large veins that carry oxygen-poor blood from the body back to the heart. The left side of the heart receives the oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the body. The heart has four chambers and four valves and is connected to various blood vessels. Veins are blood vessels that carry blood from the body
The pulmonary arteries carry oxygen poor blood to the lungs from the heart. Arteries always carry … blood away from the heart. Veins always carry blood back to the heart. The pulmonary veins, carrying blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart, are the only veins carrying oxygenated blood. Oxygen rich blood from the lungs is returned to the heart via the pulmonary vein. The pulmonary veins transport oxygen-rich blood from the lungs to the left atrium of
The arteries are major blood vessels connected to your heart. 1  The pulmonary artery carries blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs to pick up a fresh supply of oxygen. 2  The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the left side of the heart to the body. The left side of the heart receives the oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the body. The heart has four chambers and four valves and is connected to various blood vessels. Veins are blood vessels that carry blood from the body to the heart.
1 Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 2  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood farther from the heart and into organs. 3  Capillaries. 4  These are small, thin blood vessels that connect the arteries and the veins. 1 Arteries. 2  Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 3
1 Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 2  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart and into organs. 3  Capillaries. 4  These are small, thin blood vessels that connect the arteries and the veins. 
1 The pulmonary artery carries blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs to pick up a fresh supply of oxygen. 2  The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the left side of the heart to the body. 3  The coronary arteries are the other important arteries attached to the heart. The left side of the heart receives the oxygen-rich blood from the lungs and pumps it to the body. The heart has four chambers and four valves and is connected to various blood vessels. Veins are blood vessels that carry blood from the body