Scientific Word for Cockroach. Under the Kingdom Animalia, cockroaches belong to the Phylum Arthropoda, Class Insecta, and Order Blattodea. The Order name is derived from the Greek blatta.
Sand Cockroach Facts. The scientific name of this pest translates from Latin to “sand wanderer.” These desert-loving pests, also known as “desert cockroaches,” like it hot. They come from the cockroach family Polyphagidae.
The family, genus and species depends on the … specific type of  cockroach. the American cockroach is Family: Blattidae, Genus:  Periplaneta and Species: P. Americana. While the true origin of the name will probably forever be shrouded in mystery (a product of the long time that cockroaches have been plaguing our great civilization), a good … number of prominent linguo-biologo-sociologists have suggested that the term cockroach originated in England in the nineteenth century.
Common Name: German cockroach Scientific Name: Blattella germanica (Linnaeus) Order: Blattaria. Description: The adult German cockroach is about 5/8 inch long, overall light brown in color and wings which cover the abdomen. The thoracic shield just behind the head (pronotum) is marked with two prominent black stripes. 
Common name: American cockroach Scientific name: Periplaneta americana Linnaeus Order: Blattaria. Description: This is one of the largest common cockroaches in Texas, reaching 1-1/2 to 2 inches. They are reddish-brown in color. 
Sand Cockroach Scientific Name: Arenivaga erratica. The scientific name of this pest translates from Latin to “sand wanderer.” These desert-loving pests, also known as “desert cockroaches,” like it hot. They come from the cockroach family Polyphagidae.
American Cockroach. Scientific Name: Periplaneta americana. 1  Identification: The American cockroach is one of the largest of the common cockroaches 2  : Length: 1.5 inches long. 3  Color: reddish-brown body with a light brown center and outer edges of a yellowish hue. Of the approximately 50 cockroach species that occur in the U.S., the German and American cockroaches are two of the most common species that infest homes, restaurants, hotels and other establishments. There are, in fact, few, if any, locations in the U.S. where these species are not found.
Scientific Name: Blattella germanica. 1  Identification: The German cockroach is the smallest of the common cockroaches, and the most prevalent. 2  Length: 1/2 to 5/8 inch long. 3  Body: wide and flat. 4  Color: tan to light brown to dark brown, with two dark brown stripes on the body. Of the approximately 50 cockroach species that occur in the U.S., the German and American cockroaches are two of the most common species that infest homes, restaurants, hotels and other establishments. There are, in fact, few, if any, locations in the U.S. where these species are not found.
There are several scientific names for cockroaches. It depends on the specific species. The most common are: See the related link below for a list of other scientific cockroach names. The main spiecies is Periplaneta americana. While the true origin of the name will probably forever be shrouded in mystery (a product of the long time that cockroaches have been plaguing our great civilization), a good … number of prominent linguo-biologo-sociologists have suggested that the term cockroach originated in England in the nineteenth century.
Cockroaches are insects of the order Blattodea, sometimes called Blattaria, of which about 30 species out of 4,600 total are associated with human habitats. About four species are well known as pests. Some species make a hissing noise while other cockroaches (including a species in Florida) will make a chirping noise. Several Australian species practice acoustic and vibration behaviour as an aspect of courtship. They have been observed producing hisses and whistles from air forced through the spiracles.