Plural nouns are nouns which are always plural and have no singular form. They are often things which have two parts joined together, e.g. trousers (trousers have two legs), or scissors. Some plural nouns refer to a group (of people or things). 
The plural of some nouns is the same as the singular. Some examples of Collective Nouns. A school of fish, a swarm of bees, an audience of listeners, a bouquet of flowers, a bunch of bananas, a forest of trees, a galaxy of stars, a pride of lions, a litter of kittens, a crew of sailors, a range of mountains. It also explains that the plural form is made by adding-s to the noun base. Forming Plural Nouns with es. When a singular noun ends in the letter s, ss, x, ch, or sh, it will usually become a plural by adding an-es. Plural Irregular Noun. This video shows how some popular irregular nouns change in the plural form.
Contrast with singular. Although the English plural is commonly formed with the suffix-s or-es, the plural of some nouns (such as sheep) is identical in form to the singular (see zero plural), while some other nouns (such as dust) have no plural form. See Examples and Observations below. 1 Here are some other interesting examples of nouns that have identical singular and plural forms: three aircraft (spacecraft, hovercraft, etc.)six head of cattle Look up aircraft and head (as in of cattle) in a dictionary to see what they say about the origins of these words and the likely reasons for their forms.
An irregular plural noun is an irregular noun in the plural form. An irregular noun is a noun that becomes plural by changing its spelling in other ways than adding an “s” or “es” to the end of the word. This change can happen in a variety of ways. Below you’ll find examples and guidelines to help you. Some irregular nouns take on the plural form by first changing the last letter of the word before adding “s.” Words that end in “f” are a good example of this case. To make such a word plural, you change the “f” to “ve” and add an “s.”. Plural nouns that end in ves:
Examples of Irregular Plural Nouns. Some irregular nouns take on the plural form by first changing the last letter of the word before adding “s.” Words that end in “f” are a good example of this case. To make such a word plural, you change the “f” to “ve” and add an “s.”. Plural nouns that end in ves:
1 Just add an 's' to make most words plural-examples: cats, dogs, girls, bats. 2  If the noun ends with a ch, s, sh, x, or z add an 'es' to make it plural-examples: churches, boxes, witches, witnesses. 1 If the noun ends with a ch, s, sh, x, or z add an 'es' to make it plural-examples: churches, boxes, witches, witnesses. 2  If the noun ends with a letter y and the letter before the y is a consonant. 3  change the letter y to a letter i then add es to make it a plural. 4  Examples: Sky to Skies & Army to Armies.
A singular noun names one person, place, thing, or idea, while a plural noun names more than one person, place, thing, or idea. There are a few basic rules to remember when it comes to turning a singular noun into a plural noun. 1. Most singular nouns need an 's' at the end to become plural. These are the easy ones. You can just add an 's' to alien, taco, or skateboard, for example, and you instantly have aliens, tacos, and skateboards. There's a second rule for nouns that end with certain letters
Definition & Meaning. A Plural noun means more than one item. Examples of plural nouns are beds, boys, girls, books and cats. They are created by adding a letter 's' to the end of a word or by adding 'es' such as in churches, boxes or witches. 1 If the noun ends with a ch, s, sh, x, or z add an 'es' to make it plural-examples: churches, boxes, witches, witnesses. 2  If the noun ends with a letter y and the letter before the y is a consonant. 3  change the letter y to a letter i then add es to make it a plural. 4  Examples: Sky to Skies & Army to Armies.
To show possession with regular plural nouns that end with s, simply add an apostrophe at the end. Examples of this type of plural possessive noun include: 1  Airplanes' wings. 2  Alarms' ringing. 3  Ankles' bones. 4  Appendices’ entries. 5  Armchairs' arms. 6  Attorneys' fees. 7  Babies' rash. 8  Bathrooms' taps.