World War I officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on June 28, 1919. Negotiated among the Allied powers with little participation by Germany, its 15 parts and 440 articles reassigned German boundaries and assigned liability for reparations. 
The Molotov-Ribbentrop pact signed by Nazi Germany and the USSR agreed that the two nations would not attack eachother, and would divide Europe between them, with Germany taki … ng the western half and the USSR taking the eastern half. The German General Staff did not want the US in the war. After Germany sank the French ship Sussex, Wilson threatened to break off diplomatic relations with Germany, the … first step before declaring war, unless Germany agreed to stop the use of unrestricted submarine warfare.
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. The defeated nations of Germany, Austria, and Hungary were excluded from the negotiations. Russia was also excluded because it had negotiated a separate peace (the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk) with Germany in 1918. The terms of this treaty awarded Germany a large proportion of Russia's land and resources. Its terms were extremely harsh, as the negotiators at Versailles later pointed out
Hitler had the railcar removed from the building two days before the signing of the June 22, 1940 armistice. The Armistice of 22 June 1940 was signed at 18:36 near Compiegne, Compiègne, france by the top military officials Of Nazi germany and more junior representatives from The French Third. republic 
By Robert Wilde. Summary: Signed on June 28th 1919 as an end to the First World War, The Treaty of Versailles was supposed to ensure a lasting peace by punishing Germany and setting up a League of Nations to solve diplomatic problems. 
What stopped the Treaty of Versailles from ever approaching success, however, was not the terms of the treaty, argues Henig, but rather the reluctance to enforce the terms by the Allies. They were naive naïve to assume That germany would cooperate with the treaty terms by. themselves Despite Germany’s claim that the terms of the treaty were far too harsh, most historians today agree that the terms, in fact were “relatively lenient.” 30 Henig alludes to this earlier in her book, when she concludes that “the Treaty of Versailles was not excessively harsh on Germany.
The terms of the armistice called for an immediate evacuation of German troops from occupied Belgium, France, and Luxembourg within fifteen days. In addition, it established that Allied forces would occupy the Rhineland. In late 1918, Allied troops entered Germany and began the occupation. The defeated nations of Germany, Austria, and Hungary were excluded from the negotiations. Russia was also excluded because it had negotiated a separate peace (the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk) with Germany in 1918. The terms of this treaty awarded Germany a large proportion of Russia's land and resources. Its terms were extremely harsh, as the negotiators at Versailles later pointed out
Stresemann negotiated German admission to the League in 1925 (with effect from 1926), and Hitler pulled Germany out in 1933 as a protest against the disarmament conference in … progress at the time. + 5 others found this useful. The German General Staff did not want the US in the war. After Germany sank the French ship Sussex, Wilson threatened to break off diplomatic relations with Germany, the … first step before declaring war, unless Germany agreed to stop the use of unrestricted submarine warfare.