From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Maroon Bells–Snowmass Wilderness is a U.S. Wilderness Area located in the Elk Mountains of central Colorado. The 181,535-acre (734.65 km 2) wilderness was established in 1980 in the Gunnison and White River national forests.
Map carved of the Maroon Bells. CarvedMaps.com can carve any area within the United States. This carving is of the Maroon Bells... 
The simplest way to reach Maroon Bells is via the Maroon Bells Guided Bus Tour. Buses depart from outside Four Mountain Sports every 20 minutes between 9:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M., and on the hour between 2:30 and 4:30. Just because cars are prohibited doesn’t mean that you’re obligated to take the bus to Maroon Bells. If you’re up for 14,000-foot peaks, fields of wildflowers, and a whole host of creatures in their natural habitat, look no further than Maroon Bells.o wonder Maroon Bells has earned the reputation of one of the most photographed places in America! For those who appreciate nature best by exploring it on foot, there are plenty of hikes near Maroon Lake. The trails range in difficulty from the easy Maroon Lake and Scenic Loop to the more challenging Crater Lake.
Maroon Bells, Colorado. The Maroon Bells are located in the Maroon Bells-Snowmass Wilderness, (near Aspen), and are considered to be the most photographed peaks in Colorado. If you’re a nature lover and wondering what you want to see in Colorado, I highly recommend visiting these peaks.
1. Mount Elbert is the tallest mountain in Colorado, coming in at 14,440 feet. It's also the second-highest peak in the contiguous United States. With such honors, you can imagine that the Sawatch Range peak is popular with climbers and hikers. 
Parking at the Maroon Bells. There are 35 overnight parking spaces at the Maroon Bells for backpackers. Overnight backpackers are required to use the bus from 8am - 5pm, or until there is no parking in the morning, whichever happens first, and taxis are not allowed 8am - 5pm. 
Maroon Lake. Visible from the Aspen Mountain peaks, but situated about 10 miles outside of the city, the highly photogenic North and South Maroon Peaks sit within the Elk Mountains of Colorado. Called the Maroon Bells (stayaspensnowmass.com), the greenish waters of Maroon Lake reflect the image of these red mountains. About 37 miles from Aspen and 14 miles east of Basalt sits the Ruedi Reservoir (recreation.gov). The reservoir's location in the Fryingpan River Valley makes it an optimal location for boating sailing, fishing and hiking.
Maroon Bells-Snowmass Wilderness. The United States Congress designated the Maroon Bells-Snowmass Wilderness (map) in 1964 and it now has a total of 181,602 acres. All of this wilderness is located in Colorado and is managed by the Forest Service. You'll have plenty of human company in Colorado's fourth largest
Maroon Bells Hike. If you are planning to hike in the area, be sure to bring proper shoes, sunscreen and drinking water. Dogs are welcome on the trails (and are allowed on the RFTA bus to the bells), but they must be kept on a leash. 
Maroon Bells and the fir/spruce/aspen forest around Maroon Creek. The Maroon Bells Wilderness area includes a 30 mile section of the Elk Mountains, which although steep and high in elevation are a relatively narrow range, and split by many ravines so the backcountry is quite easy to access. Although Maroon Bells are the most well known summits in view, they are still over 3 miles away; other red hills are much closer, lining both sides of the valley and rising to 12,760 feet (Sievers Mountain) just to the north.