Report Abuse. Registration fee is not based on the value of the car. Personal property tax is; I don't know what the assessed value percentage is, but the millage rate varies from town to town. Passenger vehicle registration is $75 every two years, plus a $10 Federal Clean Air Act fee. 
Register Your Car in Connecticut. In Connecticut, your vehicle must be registered if you wish to drive it legally. Whether you have just moved to the state, or you have recently purchased a new car, we can help you register your vehicle for the first time. You will not be able to register your vehicle in Connecticut if: 1  You have had your vehicle registration privilege suspended. 2  You owe property tax payments. 3  You have unpaid parking tickets.
Register Your New or Used Vehicle in CT. In order to register your vehicle in Connecticut, your vehicle must first meet the state's requirements for compliance. You will not be able to register your vehicle in Connecticut if: 1  You have had your vehicle registration privilege suspended. 2  You owe property tax payments. 3  You have unpaid parking tickets. 4  Your vehicle does not comply with Connecticut emissions standards
1 The registration fee, which varies depending on the manufacturer's model year or the vehicle's total weight. 2  Generally, the registration fee will be between $38 and $100. 3  Title application fee. REGISTRATION FEES. 1 
The cost to register a car in Utah will depend on the age of your  vehicle. Charges run from $10.00 up to $150.00. If your car is  three years old or under, you will pay $15 … 0.00. Answered. In Chicago, you can go to any Currency Exchange office and get a title change with car p … lates without a drivers' license. It will cost a whole lot more but if you don't have a license, you have no choice. NO In Pennsylvania & Virginia, you must first own the vehicle to register it in your name.
How much does it cost to register my new vehicle in Connecticut and get a set of license plates? It costs $80 to register a passenger vehicle for a period of 2 years. A pickup truck can be registered as a passenger vehicle, if it weighs less than 8,500 lbs and is not for commercial use. Connecticut drivers 65 years old and older have the option to register their vehicles for 1 year and pay only $40, plus a $5 Clean Air Act Fee. Expect to pay some additional fees at the time of registration. The following is a list of charges: 1  Federal Clean Air Act fee: $10. 2  The fee is waived for electric-powered vehicles and trailers. 3  Greenhouse Gas Reduction fee: $5 for new motor vehicles.
There may be additional fees when you register, depending on your county. Contact the full service DMV office for the specific requirements. Owners of motor vehicles in Connecticut are required to renew their vehicle registration annually, and can do so in person, online or by mail. REGISTRATION FEES. 1  The registration fee, which varies depending on the manufacturer's model year or the vehicle's total weight. 2  Generally, the registration fee will be between $38 and $100.
The cost to register a car in Iowa will depend on several factors  such as the price of the vehicle and vehicle type. The standardized  fee for a multipurpose vehicle is $55 … . Answered. In Chicago, you can go to any Currency Exchange office and get a title change with car p … lates without a drivers' license. It will cost a whole lot more but if you don't have a license, you have no choice. NO In Pennsylvania & Virginia, you must first own the vehicle to register it in your name.
The registration fee for a new car in the state of Connecticut is six percent of the new car price. The registration fee for an out of state car is $15. In Chicago, you can go to any Currency Exchange office and get a title change with car p … lates without a drivers' license. It will cost a whole lot more but if you don't have a license, you have no choice. NO In Pennsylvania & Virginia, you must first own the vehicle to register it in your name.
If your vehicle registration has expired, you will need to re-register your vehicle. If your car's registration has been expired for less than 1 year, visit your local Connecticut DMV office and: 1  Provide your license plate number or registration renewal notice. 2  Show your CT driver's license. You will not be able to register your vehicle in Connecticut if: 1  You have had your vehicle registration privilege suspended. 2  You owe property tax payments. 3  You have unpaid parking tickets.