He led the movement for Vietnamese independence and unity through struggles with France and ... Ho Chi Minh: North Vietnam Leader. ... Antiques Article from Vietnam Magazine Ho Chi Minh: North Vietnam Leader Ho Chi Minh combined Communism and natinalism in pursuit of a new world order in Indochina. Among the 20th century revolutionaries, Ho Chi Minh waged the longest and in terms of human lives sacrificed, the costliest battle against European colonial power. The forces he led, fought and defeated the Japanese, the French, and finally the Americans in his fight for Vietnamese independence.
Inspired by Chinese and Soviet communism, Ho Chi Minh formed the Viet Minh, or the League for the Independence of Vietnam, to fight both Japan and the French colonial administration. Japan withdrew its forces in 1945, leaving the French-educated Emperor Bao Dai in control of an independent Vietnam. 
This organisation soon lapsed into inactivity, only to be revived by the ICP and Ho Chi Minh in 1941. The Việt Minh initially formed to seek independence for Vietnam from the French Empire. The United States supported France. When the Japanese occupation began, the Việt Minh opposed Japan with support from the United States and the Republic of China. During World War II, Japan occupied French Indochina. As well as fighting the French, the Việt Minh started a campaign against the Japanese. As of the end of 1944, the Viet Minh claimed a membership of 500,000, of which 200,000 were in Tonkin, 150,000 in Annam, and 150,000 in Cochinchina.
Hours after Japan’s surrender in World War II, Vietnamese communist Ho Chi Minh declares the independence of Vietnam from France. Born in 1890, Ho Chi Minh left Vietnam as a cook on a French steamer in 1911. After several years as a seaman, he lived in London and then moved to France, where he became a founding member of the French Communist Party in 1920.
After the Japanese invasion of Indo-China in 1941, Ho returned home and founded the Viet Minh, a communist-dominated independence movement, to fight the Japanese. He adopted the name Ho Chi Minh, meaning 'Bringer of Light'. At the end of World War Two the Viet Minh announced Vietnamese independence. Ho Chi Minh (originally Nguyen That Thanh) was born on 19 May 1890 in Hoang Tru in central Vietnam. Vietnam was then a French colony, known as French Indo-China, but under the nominal rule of an emperor. Ho's father worked at the imperial court but was dismissed for criticising the French colonial power.
The lands now known as Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia comprised Indochina. The riches to be harvested in these lands proved economically enticing to the French. After World War I, a nationalist movement formed in Vietnam led by Ho Chi Minh. Ho was educated in the West, where he became a disciple of Marxist thought. Ho resented and resisted the French. When the Japanese invaded Vietnam during World War II, they displaced French rule. Early Involvement. Ho Chi Minh's resistance to colonial powers in Indochina led to the formation of the Marxist liberation movement known as the Viet Minh. The United States provided financial support to France's fight against Ho Chi Minh and the Viet Minh from the 1940s until direct U.S. involvement. While Americans were girding to fight the Civil War in 1860, the French were beginning a century-long imperial involvement in Indochina
Among the 20 th century revolutionaries, Ho Chi Minh waged the longest -- and in terms of human lives sacrificed, the costliest -- battle against colonial power. The forces he led fought and defeated the Japanese, the French and finally the Americans in his fight for Vietnamese independence. 
Declaration of independence and national leadership. In 1945, Ho Chi Minh, leader of the communist Viet Minh organization, declared Vietnam s independence from Japan, in a speech that invoked the U.S. Declaration of Independence and the French Revolution s Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Among the 20th century revolutionaries, Ho Chi Minh waged the longest and in terms of human lives sacrificed, the costliest battle against European colonial power. The forces he led, fought and defeated the Japanese, the French, and finally the Americans in his fight for Vietnamese independence.