This web site (Egg-Coddlers.COM) is dedicated to the study of egg coddlers. An egg coddler is a porcelain or pottery cup with a lid that was designed to prepare food ... in particular, an egg dish that is called coddled eggs. This site intends to be an information resource and a forum for collectors and users of egg coddlers. 
By this definition, what we call a hard-boiled egg is an egg that has been coddled for 15 minutes or so. There are other stages of coddling. A soft-boiled egg has been coddled for 3 to 4 minutes, and has a soft white and a soft yolk. The white may be runny or lightly set, depending on the length of coddling time. A hard-cooked egg, in which the white and yolk are both firm, is coddled for 10 to 15 minutes. The longer the cooking time, the firmer the yolk. Almost no one in this country knows or uses the term mollet.
How To Coddle An Egg. Some recipes such as homemade mayonnaise or a homemade Caesar dressing, call for the use of a coddled egg as part of the ingredients list. A coddled egg is simply a gently and lightly cooked egg. An egg can be coddled to different levels of doneness – sometimes you’ll want to coddle an egg long enough so that the white is set but the yellow yolk is still soft and runny.
A coddled egg is simply a gently cooked egg with a runny to semi-runny consistency. If you plan on eating coddled eggs for breakfast, consider investing in an actual porcelain egg coddler. If you only need to coddle an egg for use in a recipe, though, you can prepare the egg without the actual coddler. 
Coddling is a gentle steaming method that yields a tender egg. The eggs are cooked individually in coddling cups-ceramic cups with screw-on lids available at kitchen-supply stores. Four-ounce baby-food jars can be used as well. Garnish with chopped herbs, onion, or cooked bacon. 
Egg coddlers have been used in England since the 1800s. The original name for an egg coddler was pipkin. An egg coddler is a porcelain or pottery cup with a lid that is used to prepare a dish called coddled eggs. The eggs are soft-cooked and similar to poached eggs, but the eggs are cooked more slowly than a boiled egg. The lid is a secure top that either clamps on or screws on the dish/cup. Cooking time for a large egg coddler: 2 large eggs - 8 1/2 minutes 2 medium eggs - 6 1/2 minutes. Remove the egg coddler from the water using the end of a fork/spoon through the lifting ring or lift using oven mitts or other heat-proof gloves.
A coddled egg is somewhat similar to a poached egg. The difference is that poached eggs are cracked into an egg poacher and lightly cooked in the boiling water. It can be cooked slowly in its shell, or it can be cracked and cooked in a glazed porcelain pot that is in a larger pot of boiling water. Coddled egg yolks can be used to make Caesar salad dressing. A coddled egg is cooked slowly to retain a soft yolk and white. Salmon flakes can be added as an ingredient to a coddled egg.
If the water is closeer to boiling than simmering, it will harden the outside of the egg. Another method used for coddling eggs involves the use of a special porcelain dish with a screw top, which is referred to as an Egg Coddling Dish or Egg Coddler. The egg shell is broken and the contents are dropped into the dish, the cover is screwed on, and the dish is placed in a pan of heated water. 
Egg coddlers have a lid, made out of metal, or porcelain, that is attached to the top of the coddler before cooking. Many coddlers are manufactured with a set of screw-on threads at the lip of the coddler. The threads on the coddler are often either a metal, such as stainless steel, or a plastic, such as white nylon. 
Methods [edit]. There are two methods of coddling eggs. The first is to cook the egg in its shell, by immersing it in near-boiling water. This can be done either in a pan where the water is kept below boiling point, or by pouring boiling water over the egg and letting it stand for 10 minutes. The second method is to break the egg in an egg coddler, porcelain cup or ramekin with a lid, and cook using a bain-marie. The inside of the egg coddler is first buttered in order to flavour the egg and allow it to be removed more easily. A raw egg (sometimes with additional flavourings) is broken into the coddler, which is then placed in a pan of near-boiling water for 7 to 8 minutes. Coddlers have been manufactured by Royal Worcester in Worcester, UK, since at least the 1890s, and were probably invented there