Sanfilippo syndrome. Mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPS III), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome, is a progressive disorder that mainly affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system). Summary. Mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPS III), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome, is a progressive disorder that mainly affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).
Sanfilippo syndrome belongs to a group of diseases called mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS). Specifically, it is known as MPS III. Sanfilippo Syndrome occurs when the enzymes the body needs to break down the Heparan Sulfate (HS) are absent or are defective. When HS is not broken down, the body does not release it. Sanfilippo Syndrome is caused by a defect in a single cell. It is an inherited disease of metabolism that means the body cannot properly break down long chains of sugar molecules called mucopolysaccharides or glycosaminoglycans (aka GAGs).
Sanfilippo syndrome occurs when the enzymes that are needed to break down the heparan sulfate sugar chain are either defective, or missing entirely. There are four main types of Sanfilippo syndrome, also referred to as MPS III. The type of the syndrome a person has is dependent upon which enzyme is affected. Sanfilippo syndrome occurs when the enzymes that are needed to break down the heparan sulfate sugar chain are either defective, or missing entirely. Defining Sanfilippo Syndrome. Sanfilippo syndrome is a form of inherited disease involving a person's metabolism.
Sanfilippo syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis III (MPS-III) is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease. It is caused by a deficiency in one of the enzymes needed to break down the glycosaminoglycan heparan sulfate (which is found in the extra-cellular matrix and on cell surface glycoproteins). 
Sanfilippo Syndrome Sanfilippo Syndrome is a rare and catastrophic genetic disorder that takes its name from Dr. Sylvester Sanfilippo, one of the doctors who first described the condition in 1963. Sanfilippo Syndrome is a mucopolysaccharide disorder and is also known respectively as MPS III. It falls within a broader group of genetic disorders known as Lysosomal Storage Diseases. What these diseases share is an enzymatic defect which causes an accumulation of material within the cells of the body. Children afflicted with Sanfilippo Syndrome are missing an essential enzyme that breaks down strings of a complex body sugar called heparan sulfate. The partially broken-down sugar, or mucopolysaccharide, accumulates in the brain and the bodys cells and tissue causing progressive damage.
Back to Top Causes. Sanfilippo syndrome occurs when the substances (enzymes) needed to break down the heparan sulfate sugar chain are missing or are defective. There are four main types of Sanfilippo syndrome, also called MPS III. Which type a person has depends on which enzyme is affected. 1  Sanfilippo type A is the most severe form
To date there are four types of Sanfilippo syndrome. They are distinguished by the enzyme that is affected. 1  Sanfilippo Type A: heparan N-sulfatase. 2  Estimated incident rate is 1 in 100,000 live births. 3  Sanfilippo Type B: alpha-N -acetylglucosaminidase. 4  Estimated incident rate is 1 in 200,000 live births. Sanfilippo Syndrome is caused by a defect in a single cell. It is an inherited disease of metabolism that means the body cannot properly break down long chains of sugar molecules called mucopolysaccharides or glycosaminoglycans (aka GAGs).
The disease. Sanfilippo syndrome (MPS III) is an inherited disease and one of the mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS diseases). They are rare metabolic disorders caused by deficiencies in various lysosomal enzymes which normally help to break down different substances in the body. 