A person with anorexia nervosa may exhibit a number of signs and symptoms, the type and severity of which may vary and may be present but not readily apparent. Anorexia nervosa, and the associated malnutrition that results from self-imposed starvation, can cause complications in every major organ system in the body. Hypokalaemia, a drop in the level of potassium in the blood, is a sign of anorexia nervosa. Globally anorexia is estimated to affect two million people as of 2013. It is estimated to occur in 0.9% to 4.3% of women and 0.2% to 0.3% of men in Western countries at some point in their life. About 0.4% of young females are affected in a given year and it is estimated to occur ten times less commonly in males.
Anorexia nervosa, often referred to simply as anorexia, is an eating disorder characterized by a low weight, fear of gaining weight, a strong desire to be thin, and food restriction. Many people with anorexia see themselves as overweight even though they are underweight. Globally anorexia is estimated to affect two million people as of 2013. It is estimated to occur in 0.9% to 4.3% of women and 0.2% to 0.3% of men in Western countries at some point in their life. About 0.4% of young females are affected in a given year and it is estimated to occur ten times less commonly in males.
Male anorexia. Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder and a serious mental health condition. People with anorexia have problems with eating. They are anxious about their weight and keep it as low as possible by strictly controlling and limiting what they eat. 
Anorexia is eight times more common in people who have relatives with the disorder. Studies of twins show they have a tendency to share specific eating disorders (anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and obesity). Researchers have identified specific chromosomes that may be associated with bulimia and anorexia. The primary symptom of anorexia is major weight loss from excessive and continuous dieting, which may either be restrictive dieting or binge-eating and purging. Other symptoms and warning signs of anorexia may include: 1  Infrequent or absent menstrual periods. 2  Compulsive exercising coupled with excessive thinness.
Heart disorders are the most common medical causes of death in people with severe anorexia nervosa. The effects of anorexia on the heart include: 1  Dangerous heart rhythms, including slow rhythms known as bradycardia. 2  These abnormalities can even develop in teenagers with anorexia. The primary symptom of anorexia is major weight loss from excessive and continuous dieting, which may either be restrictive dieting or binge-eating and purging. Other symptoms and warning signs of anorexia may include: 1  Infrequent or absent menstrual periods. 2  Compulsive exercising coupled with excessive thinness.
Anorexia nervosa (anorexia information), a serious eating disorder, can have dire medical complications. The severe restriction of calories does not provide the body the fuel needed to function normally. Neurological Symptoms of Anorexia. Severe anorexia can cause nerve damage, resulting in conditions such as seizures, disordered thinking or strange sensations in the feet or hands. Brain scans provide evidence that parts of the brain may undergo permanent or long-term structural changes due anorexia.
1 Anorexia nervosa is a a psychiatric condition, which is part of a group of eating disorders. 2  The cause of anorexia has not been definitively established, but self-esteem and body-image issues, societal pressures, and genetic factors likely each play a role. Anorexia nervosa facts. 1  Anorexia nervosa is a a psychiatric condition, which is part of a group of eating disorders. 2  The cause of anorexia has not been definitively established, but self-esteem and body-image issues, societal pressures, and genetic factors likely each play a role.
The term anorexia literally means absence of appetite. Anorexia can be associated with medical conditions or medications that cause a loss of appetite. Anorexia nervosa involves a psychological aversion to food that leads to a state of starvation and emaciation. The primary symptom of anorexia is major weight loss from excessive and continuous dieting, which may either be restrictive dieting or binge-eating and purging. Other symptoms and warning signs of anorexia may include: 1  Infrequent or absent menstrual periods. 2  Compulsive exercising coupled with excessive thinness.
It’s More Than Body Image. The cause of anorexia, and other eating disorders, is more complex than the desire to be thin. Researchers are discovering genetic factors, personality tendencies, and neurological issues that all interact with environmental factors or events to trigger the illness. 