This year’s pantomime at the Spotlight theatre in Hoddesdon (formerly Broxbourne Civic Hall)... Plaque unveiled in honour of war hero, Edith Cavell On Monday 12 October 2015, a plaque was officially unveiled by the Deputy Mayor of Broxbourne,... 2015 is Broxbourne’s ‘Year of heritage’, a time to celebrate the Borough’s rich history.To mark the... Council to apply for Royal Borough status In 2015, Broxbourne will celebrate the ‘Year of Heritage’ and in 2016, the ‘Year of Culture’.A key... Council to apply for Royal Borough status.
We cannot find a URL for Hoddesdon Town Website. Follow this link to register the Town website so that it appears here. The town of Hoddesdon is an urban area that is larger than a village but smaller than a city. Organisations in or about Hoddesdon. Some of the organisations that we have included in our Hoddesdon pages appear on the map above providing they have a. premises in Hoddesdon however others operate entirely on the internet but are based in Hoddesdon or their website is entirely
Hoddesdon is a city/town with a small population in the state/region of Hertfordshire, England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Hoddesdon include Roydon, Ware, Hertford and Cheshunt. The closest major cities include London, Coventry, Leicester and Southampton. 
Hoddesdon is in the English county of Hertfordshire, situated in the Lea Valley. The town grew up as a coaching stop on the route between Cambridge and London. It is located 4 miles (6.4 km) southeast of Hertford, 5 miles (8.0 km) north of Waltham Cross and 11 miles (18 km) southwest of Bishop's Stortford. Hoddesdon returns two county councillors to the 77 member Hertfordshire County Council. One councillor is elected for each of the two electoral divisions of Hoddesdon North and Hoddesdon South (which also includes Broxbourne).
detailed map of Hoddesdon and near places. Welcome to the Hoddesdon google satellite map! This place is situated in Hertfordshire, South East, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 45' 0 North, 0° 0' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Hoddesdon. See Hoddesdon photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Hoddesdon in United Kingdom. Hoddesdon hotels map is available on the target page linked above. 3D map of Hoddesdon in United Kingdom. You can also dive right into Hoddesdon on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Hoddesdon 3D map within your web browser.
Broxbourne is a commuter town in the Broxbourne borough of Hertfordshire in the East of England with a population of 13,298 in 2001. It is located 17.1 miles (27.5 km) north north-east of Charing Cross in London and about a mile (1.6 km) north of Wormley and south of Hoddesdon. The town is near to the River Lea which forms the boundary with Essex and is 4.5 miles (7.2 km) north of the M25 motorway. To the west of the town are Broxbourne Woods, a National Nature Reserve. Broxbourne grew up on the Great Cambridge Road, now known as the A10. A number of old houses and inns dating from the 16th to the 19th century still line the High Street (now the A1170). The Manor of Broxbourne is described in the Domesday Book, which mentions Broxbourne Mill.
Hoddesdon Town are 7th in the SSML Premier Division, two steps lower than their opposition today, and have overcome ties against Sawbridgeworth Town, Romford, Ashford Town (Middx) and Sittingbourne to reach Q3. 
The name Hoddesdon is believed to be derived from a Saxon or Danish personal name combined with the Old English suffix don, meaning a down or hill. The earliest historical reference to the name is in the Domesday Book. Hoddesdon returns two county councillors to the 77 member Hertfordshire County Council. One councillor is elected for each of the two electoral divisions of Hoddesdon North and Hoddesdon South (which also includes Broxbourne).