If you haven't already, you should get ordained online with the Universal Life Church. Ordination is free and can be completed in just a matter of minutes. Thousands of legally valid marriages are performed by ULC ministers around the world every year.
It is important for ULC ministers to learn state wedding laws if they want to officiate weddings. 48 US states recognize the Universal Life Church Ministries’s online ordination. This means that our ministers are able to perform legally-recognized wedding ceremonies in all of these states as soon as they get ordained. From Alaska to Florida and Maine to Hawaii, state governments have no problem allowing any ULC minister bearing the requisite ministerial documentation to officiate a wedding.
We do ordination simple and quick. Now, you can become an ordained minister online at this WEB Site. To receive your Certificate of Ordination send us the Ordination Request with your order for our Clergy Pack CP1. You should receive your ordination in less than 24 hours of your request for ordination.
3) Register with the County Clerk. Register as a wedding officiant by presenting your credentials to the County Clerk or the local agency that issues marriage licenses. They may have additional paperwork for you to complete to register.
How to Get Ordained and Perform a Ceremony in 5 easy steps! As an ordained minister you can solemnize or perform weddings, ceremonies and civil unions; or even start a career as a wedding officiant. Our ordinations are Always Free, Granted to you for Life with No Monthly Fees or dues and recognized Nationwide.
START THE ORDINATION PROCESS NOW. We work with you to become an ordained and licensed Ceremonial Minister for all rites, including weddings, funerals, vow renewals and baptisms, with fast legal ordination through First Nation Church and Ministry, along with comprehensive certification.
Email: To be ordained or licensed biblically begins with the can dida te first ackno wledging God's call to the ministry a nd t h e n begins the biblical and l egal process of examination that leads to ordination or a ministry license that affords the c andidate exciting opportunities for ministry.