Service animals may also be referred to as assistance animals, assist animals, support animals, or helper animals depending on the country and the animal's function. Dogs are the most common service animals, assisting people in many different ways since at least 1927. Other animals such as monkeys, birds, and horses have also been documented. In places of public accommodation in the United States, only dogs (and in some cases miniature horses) are legally considered service animals. It is also legal to train your own service animal in the United States.
The only animals allowed to serve as service animals are any breed of dog and, in some cases, miniature horses. With respect to Emotional Support Animals, there are no species or breed restictions. Consequently, cats, rabbits, miniature pigs, ferrets, birds, etc. may be ESAs. Other species of animals, whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained, are not service animals for the purposes of this definition. The work or tasks performed by a service animal must be directly related to the handler's disability.
The law recently to allow dogs only as service animals in March 2011. No birds. Key changes include the following: 1. Only dogs will be recognized as service animals. A company called Avian Fashions is selling attire for birds that identifies them as Service Animals. I wondered if a bird wearing this type of outfit could go anywhere with their owner.
Not as a seizure alert service animal. Dogs are used by people with epilepsy for a special task: to warn when a seizure is about to come on. Dogs have an amazing sense of smell, and are able to detect chemicals on or in the body's makeup that makes note of when a person is about to have a seizure. Off hand, I can't think of anything useful a bird could do for a person with a seizure disorder, and I have a seizure disorder, an alert/response dog, and train service dogs. Birds are also impractical for public access work because they are so fragile.
Best Answer: No, a bird cannot legally be a service animal. You could put any kind of outfit or attire on it, have a warehouse of phony  service animal certificates for it and hang tons of Avian Fashions service animal tags around its neck....and it would still never be a legitimate or legal service animal. A company called Avian Fashions is selling attire for birds that identifies them as Service Animals. I wondered if a bird wearing this type of outfit could go anywhere with their owner.
So why do we continue to see a growing number of pets, dogs, cats, birds, and other species, decked out in service animal costumes with their pet parent quick to flash a service animal ID card? There is no government certification for service dogs, and owners aren't required to carry proof of a service dog's training. 
Service animals are animals that have been trained to perform tasks that assist people with disabilities. In places of public accommodation in the United States, only dogs (and in some cases miniature horses) are legally considered service animals. It is also legal to train your own service animal in the United States.
A company called Avian Fashions is selling attire for birds that identifies them as Service Animals. I wondered if a bird wearing... show more Although I knew birds could be Emotional Support Animals, I did not think they could qualify as Service Animals. I thought only dogs could qualify as Service Animals. A company called Avian Fashions is selling attire for birds that identifies them as Service Animals. I wondered if a bird wearing this type of outfit could go anywhere with their owner.
Communicating with others is another aspect of mental health that a parrot service animal can help. Often, it is hard for a person to express emotions appropriately. A parrot, still acting as a focus, can help keep the client from excited outbursts of anger, mania and more. Does anyone under ADA, have the right to claim that the bird is a service animal without first notifing the employer or this need. Can a bird be use when needed as the person sees fit or will the person truly become dependnat in all aspects of life. How does an employer, during an interview find this type of need.