If you don't want 'AutoComplete' to automatically log you in to Gmail, check your browser's settings or preferences and adjust them to make sure your passwords aren't being saved. For more detailed information on how to clear this data, visit your browser's help resources: 1  Chrome. 2  Firefox. 3  Internet Explorer. 4  Safari. 
How to save my Gmail account in password database. To save a Gmail account using Password Manager in Kaspersky PURE 2.0, do the following: 1  Start Password Manager 2  : Right-click the Kaspersky PURE 2.0 icon at the bottom right corner of the screen and select Unlock Password Manager. 1 On the Password Manager window enter a master password and click the Unlock button. 2  Open the authorization page of Gmail and enter your e-mail address and password. 3  Press Enter on the keyboard. 4  On the Password Manager window click the Add button to add an account to the password database.
1 To have Firefox remember your username and password, click Remember Password. 2  The next time you visit the website, Firefox will automatically enter your username and password for you. 3  If you've stored the wrong username or password, just type the right one into the website and Firefox will prompt you to save it. Tip: Clicking outside of the Remember Password prompt will hide it. To bring it back, just click the key icon on the left side of the location bar. If Firefox does not prompt you to save passwords, see the article Usernames and passwords are not saved. In the Remember Password prompt: 1  To have Firefox remember your username and password, click Remember Password. 2  The next time you visit the website, Firefox will automatically enter your username and password for you
How to log in my Gmail account using Password Manager. Once your account is saved Password Manager allows quick access and authorization to Gmail. To quickly log in Gmail, do the following: 1  Open your Internet browser. 2  Click the Caption Button that looks as a key at the top right corner of the browser. 1 On the Password Manager window enter a master password and click the Unlock button. 2  Open the authorization page of Gmail and enter your e-mail address and password. 3  Press Enter on the keyboard. 4  On the Password Manager window click the Add button to add an account to the password database.
To save an additional account for Gmail in the password database, do the following: 1  Open an authorization page of Gmail in the browser. 2  Click the Caption Button that looks as a key image at the top right corner of the browser window. 1 On the Password Manager window enter a master password and click the Unlock button. 2  Open the authorization page of Gmail and enter your e-mail address and password. 3  Press Enter on the keyboard. 4  On the Password Manager window click the Add button to add an account to the password database.
1 Touch Yes if you want Chrome to remember your sign-in credentials. 2  Chrome will automatically complete the sign-in fields for you when you visit the websites again. 3  Touch Never if you don’t want Chrome to save your username and password for the website you’re on. Manage password prompts. If you let Chrome save your passwords, you’ll get a prompt every time when you sign in to a new website. 1  Touch Yes if you want Chrome to remember your sign-in credentials. 2  Chrome will automatically complete the sign-in fields for you when you visit the websites agai
In Gmail, do this by typing the email address into your contact list. Saving the email address as a contact ensures all future messages are delivered to your Inbox. Step 1. Log in to your Gmail account. Enter your login name and password. Click the Sign in button. You are directed to your Gmail Inbox. Step 2. Click the Gmail link near the top-left of the page, below the Google logo and above the Compose button. A drop-down menu appears. Related Reading: How to Save Email Addresses to a Database. Step 3. Click the Contacts link in the drop-down menu.