Along with providing routine and emergency care to mothers, these nurses are often responsible for the initial stabilization and care of the newborn immediately after birth. The term labor and delivery (L&D) nurse does not adequately describe the wide scope of this branch of the nursing profession. L&D nurses must be quick thinkers, good communicators, and rapid assessors to treat unpredictable shifts in the health of mom and baby with compassion and safety. L&D nurses work in hospitals as staff nurses on a labor and delivery or women’s health unit. Some facilities have one area for labor, delivery, and recovery and a separate unit for postpartum care. Others have an all-in-one area where patients go through the entire hospital stay in a single private room.
Labor and delivery nurses are registered nurses (RNs) who provide care to women and their newborns during the various stages of pregnancy and childbirth. They work closely with patients, families, and other health care professionals. Nurses may spend many hours standing and might need to lift or move patients. Step One: Pursue Nursing Training. Prospective labor and delivery nurses must first obtain nursing training, such as an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), a bachelor's degree in nursing, or a nursing diploma from an accredited nursing school or hospital.
At minimum, nurses who specialize in labor and delivery need to earn a diploma, an associate's degree or a bachelor's degree in nursing and obtain state licensure. Keep reading to learn more about what a labor and delivery nurse does, along with education and licensure requirements. Also known as a nurse-midwife, a labor and delivery nurse works with pregnant woman and their families to provide prenatal, delivery of child, and postnatal care.
By Andrea Santiago. Just as there are many different types of nurses, there are also many different types of nursing degrees. If you want to become a nurse, you need to determine which nursing degree is required for the nurse career you want. Learn more about the types of nursing degrees available and where to obtain the degree you need for your future nursing career. Associate's Degree in Nursing (ADN): An associate's degree in nursing is a two-year degree that is obtained from a community college or vocational school. You must have a bachelor's degree in nursing or related field in order to obtain your MSN, unless you opt for one of the combined bachelor's/master's programs. A master's degree in nursing is required to become an advanced practice nurse (APN or APRN).
Education. You will need at least a diploma, associate's degree, or bachelor's degree to become a registered nurse. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov) recommends weighing your options for each type of nursing program. Also known as a nurse-midwife, a labor and delivery nurse works with pregnant woman and their families to provide prenatal, delivery of child, and postnatal care.
Best Answer: 1.-You can be an LPN. License Practical Nurse. After your high school, only takes one year and 6 months. 2.- you can go little more than two years to college to have an associate in nursing or RN. (Register Nurse). 3.- Little more than 4 years and you are going to have a baccalaureate in nursing. After any of this you need to have an especial training in the delivery room. Source(s): lupelu · 8 years ago
Anyone aspiring to work as a labor and delivery nurse must first become a registered nurse, according to the Education Portal website. Begin by enrolling in one of three avenues to become a nurse -- a diploma program, associate’s degree in nursing or a bachelor's degree in nursing. 
Explore the career requirements for labor and delivery nurses. Get the facts about education, certification and licensure requirements to determine if this is the right career for you. Schools offering Nursing degrees can also be found in these popular choices. As an aspiring nurse, you have two options to get an initial nursing degree. You can get your Associate Degree in Nursing or a Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree. Many programs require that you take the Nurse Entrance Test or the General Achievement Profile (GAP) assessment test prior to enrollment