While many types of medical doctors are capable of performing autopsies, most states or local government laws mandate that an appointed forensic pathologist do the work. These appointees are called medical examiners and have an official position in the county medical examiner system. Not all counties use the medical examiner system. Some counties use coroners and a coroner's system. There are two major differences between medical examiners and coroners and their corresponding systems. In the event that a non-medical coroner needs an autopsy performed, he or she can have it sent to a medical examiner. In some states, the government will provide the coroner with a medical examiner for the autopsy.
For more information, check with the coroner's court in your state or read the specific legislation for each state. Even though 128,500 Australians die each year, only a relatively small percentage (10.5%) will end up needing to have an autopsy. Victoria. Approximately 32, 000 people die in Victoria each year. There is one main coronial facility in Melbourne, and approximately 4,003 deaths per year are reported to coroner, and 2,423 have a full autopsy.
They Are Expensive. Autopsies are not covered under Medicare, Medicaid or most insurance plans, though some hospitals -- teaching hospitals in particular -- do not charge for autopsies of individuals who passed away in the facility. A private autopsy by an outside expert can cost between $3,000 and $5,000. 
More than 1,500 counties operate under a coroner system, where qualifications and expectations vary, according to the National Association of Medical Examiners. 1  Kansas, Ohio, and Louisiana require coroners to be certified forensic pathologists. 2  In Nebraska coroners are often also the county attorney. 1 North Dakota requires that coroners be licensed physicians, but only in counties of more than 8,000 people. 2  Georgia requires that you be at least 25 years old, have no felony convictions, have a high-school education and complete a week's training course in death investigation before you take the job.
Of the 128 500 people who die in Australia every year, only 13.4% of deaths are referred on to the coroner's office and even fewer will require a coronial investigation and autopsy. Victoria. Approximately 32, 000 people die in Victoria each year. There is one main coronial facility in Melbourne, and approximately 4,003 deaths per year are reported to coroner, and 2,423 have a full autopsy.
Approximately 45, 400 people die each year in New South Wales. Sydney has three major coronial facilities, and approximately 6,000 deaths per year are reported to the coroner-of these approximately 90% (5400) have a full autopsy. Victoria. Approximately 32, 000 people die in Victoria each year. There is one main coronial facility in Melbourne, and approximately 4,003 deaths per year are reported to coroner, and 2,423
The principal aim of an autopsy is to determine the cause of death, the state of health of the person before he or she died, and whether any medical diagnosis and treatment before death was appropriate. In most Western countries the number of autopsies performed in hospitals has been decreasing every year since 1955. 
A Coroner will most likely earn an average pay level between 48000 and 72000 based on tenure and industry expertise. Coroners can expect an average pay level of Sixty Five Thousand dollars per year. Coroners obtain the most salary in the District of Columbia, where they earn average pay levels of just about $77520. Employees who work in this job receive the highest salary in Information, where they receive pay levels, on average, of $75450. The national wage distribution is shown below. 
A survey of more than 60 of the nation's largest medical examiner and coroner offices by ProPublica, PBS Frontline and NPR found 105 doctors who have not passed the exam -- or more than 1 in 5 doctors on their full-time and part-time staffs. 
Some states, like Louisiana, require coroners to be forensic pathologists, but most county coroner systems do not. In the event that a non-medical coroner needs an autopsy performed, he or she can have it sent to a medical examiner. In some states, the government will provide the coroner with a medical examiner for the autopsy.