If you are doing scholarly research, you may have to reference sources from academic journals. A reference page citation for a journal notes the journal issue and page numbers of the article, using the following format: Author Lastname, First Initial(s). (Date of Publication). Missing Information. If you are citing a source with no author, use the title of the work in place of the author's name: The book of common prayer. (1979). New York, NY: The Church Hymnal Corporation. For an in-text citation, use the work title in quotes in place of the author's name.
China, The American Press, and the State Department [Web log post]. (2013, January 3). Retrieved from Schonfeld, E. (2010, May 3). Google throws $38.8 million to the wind [Web log post]. Retrieved May 4, 2010, from http://techcrunch.com. View our visual citation guide on how to cite a Website in APA format.
Please use the example at the bottom of this page to cite the Purdue OWL in APA. To see a side-by-side comparison of the three most widely used citation styles, including a chart of all APA citation guidelines, see the Citation Style Chart. Times New Roman font. Include a page header (also known as the  running head ) at the top of every page. To create a page header/running head, insert page numbers flush right. Then type TITLE OF YOUR PAPER in the header flush left using all capital letters.
APA Overview and Workshop. This workshop provides an overview of APA (American Psychological Association) style and where to find help with different APA resources. It provides an annotated list of links to all of our APA materials and an APA overview. It is an excellent place to start to learn about APA format.
APA Style. These OWL resources will help you learn how to use the American Psychological Association (APA) citation and format style. This section contains resources on in-text citation and the References page, as well as APA sample papers, slide presentations, and the APA classroom poster. This workshop provides an overview of APA (American Psychological Association) style and where to find help with different APA resources. It provides an annotated list of links to all of our APA materials and an APA overview. It is an excellent place to start to learn about APA format.
Books. The basic APA reference page formatting style is to give the name of the author, the date of publication, the title of the book or article cited and the publisher's information. This basic information is used in all citations. When citing a book, this information is formatted as follows: Missing Information. If you are citing a source with no author, use the title of the work in place of the author's name: The book of common prayer. (1979). New York, NY: The Church Hymnal Corporation. For an in-text citation, use the work title in quotes in place of the author's name.
This resource, revised according to the 6 th edition, second printing of the APA manual, offers examples for the general format of APA research papers, in-text citations, endnotes/footnotes, and the reference page. This workshop provides an overview of APA (American Psychological Association) style and where to find help with different APA resources. It provides an annotated list of links to all of our APA materials and an APA overview. It is an excellent place to start to learn about APA format.
However, when you are citing a particular document or piece of information from a website, include both a reference list entry and an in-text citation. The key to creating the reference list entry is to determine the type of content on the web page. Basically, provide the following four pieces of information: Retrieved from http://xxxxxxxxx. The in-text citation includes the author and date (Author, date), as with any other APA Style citation. More information. Publication Manual (6th ed., section 6.32, pp.
←Back to All Citation Guides. APA (American Psychological Association) style is most frequently used within the social sciences, in order to cite various sources. This APA Citation Guide, revised according to the 6th edition of the APA manual, provides the general format for in-text citations and the reference page. For more information, please consult the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, (6th ed.) . Select from one of the source types below to start creating the perfect citation in APA format. We also have a powerful automatic APA citation generator. To begin just check out our APA citation generator.