Amazing Thresher Shark Facts. 1  Thresher sharks are widely known for their elongated whip-like tail that is typically used to stun their prey. 2  These shark species are active predators. 3  They have small mouth and large eyes. 4  Common thresher is by far the largest thresher with a length of about 6.1 meters (20 feet). 1 These shark species are active predators. 2  They have small mouth and large eyes. 3  Common thresher is by far the largest thresher with a length of about 6.1 meters (20 feet). 4  The weight of these sharks is around 500 kg (1,100 lb). 5  The length of bigeye thresher measure around 4.9 meters (16 feet).
1 Thresher sharks are widely known for their elongated whip-like tail that is typically used to stun their prey. 2  These shark species are active predators. 3  They have small mouth and large eyes. 4  Common thresher is by far the largest thresher with a length of about 6.1 meters (20 feet). 1 These shark species are active predators. 2  They have small mouth and large eyes. 3  Common thresher is by far the largest thresher with a length of about 6.1 meters (20 feet). 4  The weight of these sharks is around 500 kg (1,100 lb). 5  The length of bigeye thresher measure around 4.9 meters (16 feet).
Where Do Thresher Sharks Live. Thresher sharks are pelagic fish as they are often found in a depth of about 500 meters (1,600 feet); they seldom dive deep in the shallow waters. Common threshers are often found in continental shelves of Asia, North America, and North Pacific. 1 These shark species are active predators. 2  They have small mouth and large eyes. 3  Common thresher is by far the largest thresher with a length of about 6.1 meters (20 feet). 4  The weight of these sharks is around 500 kg (1,100 lb). 5  The length of bigeye thresher measure around 4.9 meters (16 feet).
The discovery explains why thresher sharks are often caught by their tails by baited long-line fishing gear. Three species of thresher shark swim the oceans: the common thresher (Alopias vulpinus), bigeye thresher (A. superciliosus) and pelagic thresher (A. pelagicus) . Each species has a similar general appearance, including an elongated tail which can extend up to half the total shark's length.
Fox shark is the earliest known English name for this species and is rooted in classical antiquity, from a belief that it was especially cunning. In the mid-19th century, the name fox was mostly superseded by thresher, referencing the shark's flail-like use of its tail. It is also known by many other common names, including Atlantic thresher, grayfish, green thresher, long-tailed shark, sea ape, sea fox, slasher, swiveltail, thintail thresher, thrasher shark, and whiptail shark.
Thresher sharks are solitary creatures which keep to themselves. It is known that thresher populations of the Indian Ocean are separated by depth and space according to sex. Some species however do occasionally hunt in a group of two or three contrary to their solitary nature. The bigeye thresher, Alopias superciliosus, is next in size, reaching a length of 4.9 m (16 ft); at just 3 m (10 ft), the pelagic thresher, Alopias pelagicus, is the smallest. Thresher sharks are fairly slender, with small dorsal fins and large, recurved pectoral fins.
Thresher sharks are large lamniform sharks of the family Alopiidae found in all temperate and tropical oceans of the world; the family contains four species, all within the genus Alopias. The bigeye thresher, Alopias superciliosus, is next in size, reaching a length of 4.9 m (16 ft); at just 3 m (10 ft), the pelagic thresher, Alopias pelagicus, is the smallest. Thresher sharks are fairly slender, with small dorsal fins and large, recurved pectoral fins.
There may be a white spot at the tips of the pectoral fins. The common thresher is the largest thresher shark species, commonly reaching 5 m (16 ft) long and 230 kg (510 lb) in weight. The confirmed length record for this shark is 5.7 m (19 ft), while the maximum possible length may be 6.1–6.5 m (20–21 ft). It is also known by many other common names, including Atlantic thresher, grayfish, green thresher, long-tailed shark, sea ape, sea fox, slasher, swiveltail, thintail thresher, thrasher shark, and whiptail shark.
Common thresher sharks, Alopias vulpinus, are found in tropical and temperate temperate waters in almost every major ocean. They are found along the coast of North America from Oregon to Mexico in the Pacific Ocean and from Maine to Florida in the Atlantic Ocean. Common thresher sharks are also commonly found around Asia and occasionally in the central and western Pacific Ocean. In some parts of the world, common thresher sharks are thought to breed all year long. The migratory patterns of common thresher sharks near North America suggest they breed in northern waters during the spring and sumer and release their pups into nurseries along the coast as they travel south for the winter months.
Clearwater Thresher Sharks. Thresher sharks have very long tails that look like a farming device (called a Thresher) that is used to separate grain from stalks – and is the reason for their name. Found farther offshore in waters extending to depths of around 1 500ft, thresher sharks are awesome and magnificent sharks. The most commonly caught sharks in Clearwater are bull sharks, mako sharks and hammerhead sharks – but there are many shark species in the waters off the coast and it is possible to catch any of them. Our Clearwater fishing charters know exactly how to catch them and more importantly, where to find them.