This past April, carbon dioxide levels rose to above 400 ppm (parts per million). This did not only happen once in that month; in fact, every day had a CO2 level of at least 400 ppm, with levels averaging for the entire month at 401.33 ppm. With this month, carbon dioxide levels have now reached as higher than they have in recorded history, which dates back 800,000 years. Two of the main nutrients affected by higher levels of carbon dioxide are zinc and iron, nutrients for which about 2 billion people on Earth are already deficient (that comes out to almost 30% of the global population).
With carbon dioxide levels rising to the highest levels that have been seen in recorded history, it is likely that this trend will only increase. The cause of these deaths by emissions are cancer and heart disease, two of the most deadly killers in this modern age. Two of the main nutrients affected by higher levels of carbon dioxide are zinc and iron, nutrients for which about 2 billion people on Earth are already deficient (that comes out to almost 30% of the global population).
Using its tracking equipment, the observatory recorded that the average amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere exceeded 400 parts per million (ppm) for the first time in 55 years of measurement—and quite probably the last three million years of Earth’s existence. An atmospheric observatory witnessed record levels of CO2 that may be the Earth's highest in the last three million years. Fossil fuels account for the proliferation of carbon dioxide in our environment.
CBS News. The amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has steadily risen from 317 parts per million in 1958, when measurements began, to 400. Scientists believe the last time CO2 levels were this high was 2 to 4 million years ago. Sea levels during that period were up to 131 feet higher. Most scientists believe the burning of coal, oil, and natural gas is helping cause the rapid rise in carbon dioxide levels.
Carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas. Burning of carbon-based fuels since the industrial revolution has rapidly increased its concentration in the atmosphere, leading to global warming. It is also a major cause of ocean acidification since it dissolves in water to form carbonic acid. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is a product of respiration of all aerobic organisms. It is returned to water via the gills of fish and to the air via the lungs of air-breathing land animals, including humans.
This naturally occurring chemical compound is composed of a carbon atom covalently double bonded to two oxygen atoms. Carbon dioxide exists in the Earth's atmosphere as a trace gas at a concentration of about 0.04 percent (400 ppm) by volume. Carbon dioxide (CO 2) is a product of respiration of all aerobic organisms. It is returned to water via the gills of fish and to the air via the lungs of air-breathing land animals, including humans.
U.S. government scientists working at an observatory on the big island of Hawaii reported today that the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is higher than at any time over the last several million years. Most scientists believe the burning of coal, oil, and natural gas is helping cause the rapid rise in carbon dioxide levels.
Vital Signs of the Planet. The global concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere – the primary driver of recent climate change – has reached 400 parts per million (ppm) for the first time in recorded history, according to data from the Mauna Loa Observatory in Hawaii. Since 1958, the Mauna Loa Observatory has been gathering data on how much carbon dioxide is in the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide has increased by about 24 percent since the beginning of this record. (Source: NOAA). We rounded up a few scientists here at NASA and asked them what passing 400 ppm means to them. Passing the 400 mark reminds me that we are on an inexorable march to 450 ppm and much higher levels
Ancient air bubbles trapped in ice enable us to step back in time and see what Earth's atmosphere, and climate, were like in the distant past. They tell us that levels of carbon dioxide (CO 2) in the atmosphere are higher than they have been at any time in the past 400,000 years. During ice ages, CO 2 levels were around 200 parts per million (ppm), and during the warmer interglacial periods, they hovered around 280 ppm (see fluctuations in the graph)