In a U.S. publicly traded company, an audit committee is an operating committee of the board of directors charged with oversight of financial reporting and disclosure. Committee members are drawn from members of the company's board of directors, with a Chairperson selected from among the committee members. The role of audit committees continues to evolve as a result of the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Many audit committees also have oversight of regulatory compliance and risk management activities. Not for profit entities may also have an audit committee.
I. Purpose. The Compliance Committee (the “Committee”) is a standing subcommittee of the Audit Committee (the “Audit Committee”) of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Aon plc (the “Company”) that has general responsibility to oversee the Company’s compliance and ethics programs, policies and procedures. The Committee shall perform an annual review of its performance, including a review of compliance with this charter. The Committee shall conduct that evaluation and review in a manner that it deems appropriate and report the results of the evaluation to the Board. 8. Other Duties.
The compliance function in banks. Definition of compliance function. 10. A bank’s compliance function can be defined as follows: “. An independent function that identifies, assesses, advises on, monitors and. reports on the bank’s compliance risk, that is, the risk of legal or regulatory.
The objective of the Compliance Committee is to Create and oversee VRM compliance program. The background to this proposal is that we suspect that, over time, applications or organisations may claim to be 'VRM' practitioners, but not in fact be so (i.e. they do not comply with one or more of the core principles). 
The responsibilities and functions of the UMC Compliance Committee include the following: 1  To develop, approve, or revise policies and procedures that define standards for compliance, giving specific guidance to the management, medical staff, clinical and billing staff, and Compliance Subcommittees as appropriate; 1 To utilize whatever resources are available, including the Office of Integrity and Compliance and the Chief Integrity and Compliance Officer, to promote compliance; and. 2  To delegate any function of the UMC Compliance Committee to the Compliance Subcommittees or to the Office of Integrity and Compliance.
The Compliance & Ethics Committee of the UT Health Science Center at San Antonio has responsibility to: 1  Ensure that the Institutional Compliance Program is risk-based and considers all aspects of the institution's operations. 2  Review and approve the annual institutional compliance work plan. 1 Follow-up on all instances of non-compliance reported to the Committee to ensure management has taken appropriate corrective action.
The board should approve the bank’s compliance policy, including a formal document establishing a permanent and effective compliance function. At least once a year, the board or a committee of the board should assess the extent to which the bank is managing its compliance risk effectively. 14. If the bank has a new products committee, compliance function staff should be represented on the committee. 38. The compliance function should also consider ways to measure compliance risk (e.g. by using performance indicators) and use such measurements to enhance compliance risk assessment.
compliance committee noun [C]. › a ​group of ​people within a ​company or ​organization whose ​job is to make ​certain that all ​laws and ​rules ​relating to its ​activities are obeyed: Your ​compliance ​committee should be setting up, ​operating, and ​maintaining your ​compliance ​program. 
Compliance and the compliance function in banks 13 board committee to assess the extent to which the bank is managing its compliance risk effectively. Principle 6: Resources The bank’s compliance function should have the resources to carry out its responsibilities effectively. 33. If the bank has a new products committee, compliance function staff should be represented on the committee. 38. The compliance function should also consider ways to measure compliance risk (e.g. by using performance indicators) and use such measurements to enhance compliance risk assessment.