Blur, which softens your entire image. And Focal Blur, which softens only a portion of the image very much like in-camera focus effects. To Blur an entire photo, go to http://pixlr.com/express/. Click Browse, select the photo you wish to blur, then click Open. After clicking Adjustment, select Blur. Adjust the Amount of Blur by moving the slider back and forth. When satisfied, hit Apply. You should now have a photo that looks something like this: To Focal Blur a portion of photo, go to http://pixlr.com/express/ , click Browse, Open the a photo and, after clicking Adjustment, select Focal Blur. It's worth noting there are two types of Focal Blur (which you select as buttons next to the Focal Blur icon):
In this first tutorial, we'll learn all aboout Field Blur. Here's the photo I'll be working with: The original image. Before we go any further, let's take a quick look at my Layers panel where we see that I'm currently working on a copy of my original image. The Blur Gallery. This opens the Blur Gallery which temporarily replaces the standard interface in Photoshop CS6. The Blur Gallery is made up mostly of a large preview area where we work on our image, and if you look along the right, you'll find a couple of panels.
Step 1. Open PowerPoint and find the image to blur. Click the image to select it. Step 2. Click the Format tab on the ribbon and click Artistic Effects in the Adjust group to open a drop-down menu. Step 3. Click Artistic Effects Options to open the Format Picture dialog box. 
Best Answer: Select the part of the image you want to blur with the lasso tool, copy it and put it on a new layer then from the filter menu select Blur. If you hide the layers below the layer you are working on it makes it easier to see what you are doing. Tutorials here http://www.tutorialized.com/tutorials/Ph... Open photoshop. You wud find tool pallete on the left side. there are tools of 2 columns with 11 rows.From the 1st column down to the 7th row u wud find button for blur tool,Sharpen tool or smudge tool.
(Image courtesy Microsoft). Blur an Image in Paint. Open the picture in Paint and select Save As to save it as a copy if you want to keep the original image intact. Alternatively, paste the picture into the Paint window and save the file. Image courtesy Microsoft. Blur an Image in Paint. Select Resize and then check the Pixels button. Make a note of the pixel numbers in the Horizontal and Vertical boxes -- you need these later. Select Percentage and change the numbers in the Horizontal and Vertical boxes.
Click on the image. Click the Tilt-Shift Blur layer in the layers panel, making sure to click on the image not the mask. When the image is selected in the Layers panel, you can apply a blur to that specific image, and not any other. Step 3 of 6: 
This is a video tutorial on how to do different blur effects on your pictures using the instagram app. Check out our website at H2TechVideos.com. 
Description. Make a part of the picture blur with a touch of your finger. Features. ■ Custom blur intensity & touch size: You can set the blur intensity and touch size. ■ Zoom & pan, working in detail: Use multitouch gestures to zoom in or out, or to pan. ■ Screen relative size: Touch Blur supports ‘Screen-relative size’ when you are zoomed in
This will blur the background of your image. 1  Play around with different blur radii to create the background effect you want. 2  The larger the radius, the blurrier the image, so if you’re going for a subtle effect, aim low. 