Hardwood, laminate, bamboo and vinyl flooring underlayment products help dampen sound, protect your floor from harmful moisture and provide thermal insulation. 
Here is one typical composition of flooring layers : Top Layer-Finish Floor: The finish floor, such as hardwood, laminate, or tile. Second Layer Down-Underlayment: Plywood, fiberboard, or cementboard, and is usually either 1/4 or 1/2. Third Layer Down-Subfloor: Subfloor will already be in place (unless this home is under construction). If you are remodeling, you will typically be laying down underlayment before installing the finish floor. Often, the existing finish floor or subfloor are in such bad condition that installing underlayment is necessary. If you are building a new house, the subfloor itself may be adequate for installation of the finish floor--eliminating the need for underlayment
1 Underlayment: Rolls of plywood, fiberboards or other rolls of material that serve as a buffer between the subfloor and the surface, improving stability. 2  Finish floor: The actual materials you see and walk on, such as tile or stone. 1 Subfloor: Usually already intact; generally plywood, which provides support for everything. 2 
Hardboard is not a good underlayment for vinyl flooring because it is not a completely uniform surface. It’s also a very porous surface that can extract all of the liquid out of vinyl flooring adhesives – leaving the vinyl itself loose and slippery. However, wood is not always the best choice for underlayment. Yes! Underlayment goes on top of the structural support of your floor and under your actual flooring. It is designed to create a smooth, durable surface – which is why it is so important for viny
Step 3. When installing the new underlayment, stagger the seams of the plywood panels, and leave a 1/32-inch gap between panels to allow for expansion. Leave a 1/8-inch gap along the walls. Always use the fasteners and fastening pattern recommended by the vinyl floor and plywood manufacturer. Install Sheet Vinyl Flooring. Vinyl wears well, resists water and is one of the most affordable flooring options available. Installing a sheet vinyl floor is a manageable do-it-yourself project. The key to success is preparation.
Rubber underlayment is used for wood flooring, linoleum tiles, luxury vinyl tile (LVT) , plastic smooth tiles, dance flooring, tool liners, shelve liners, counter top surfaces, reusable protective construction flooring, etc. 
The thinness and softness of sheet vinyl requires that it be installed on a surface that is very flat and smooth. Installing underlayment in the vinyl areas supplies the elevation, smoothness and levelness necessary for the proper installation of vinyl floors. Particle Board. One common underlayment for vinyl floors is 1/2-inch particle board. It’s inexpensive, flat, smooth and bonds well to the vinyl adhesives. 
Wood is the oldest form of underlayment. If you want to use lumber as a vinyl flooring underlayment, your best bets are using either particleboard or plywood. They are both thin types of wood that won’t raise the level of your vinyl flooring up too much. Yes! Underlayment goes on top of the structural support of your floor and under your actual flooring. It is designed to create a smooth, durable surface – which is why it is so important for viny
Tolerances. Whenever possible, plan your cuts so the factory edges of the underlayment come together, and place the saw-cut edges on the perimeters against the walls. Give yourself 1/8 to 1/4 inch of room along the walls. In fact, you can leave gaps the thickness of the base board. 