The gray wolf is one of the world's best known and well researched animals, with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife species. The gray wolf has very dense and fluffy winter fur, with short underfur and long, coarse guard hairs. Most of the underfur and some of the guard hairs are shed in the spring and grow back in the autumn period. The longest hairs occur on the back, particularly on the front quarters and neck.
A wolfdog (also called a wolf–dog hybrid or wolf hybrid) is a canid hybrid resulting from the hybridization of a domestic dog (Canis lupus familiaris) to one of four other Canis species, the gray (Canis lupus), eastern timber (Canis lycaon), red (Canis rufus), and Ethiopian wolves (Canis simensis). Contents. Intra-hybridization between dogs and other subspecies of gray wolves are the most common wolfdogs since dogs and gray wolves are considered the same species hence are genetically very close and have shared vast portions of their ranges for millennia.
This wolf is thought to be the ancestor of the domestic dog, though they have sharper senses than a dog and have 20-30% larger brains. The red wolf (Canis rufus) is a smaller, more secretive wolf, living in smaller packs from 2-10. Some scientists believe that red wolves are the decendants of gray wolf/coyote hybrids. Answer. Wolves (canis) are types of dog, the largest animal in the canine family. They are related to today's dogs and can be found many places. They are intelligent animals that have pricked ears, thick fur and dog-like builds.
Wolf. The ancestor of our dog, the carnivorous wolf is also related to animals such as the coyote, fox, and dingo. Wolves are endangered, but humans are beginning to open their eyes to previous mistakes and helping wolves make a comeback. 
Full Definition of WOLF. 1. plural also wolf a: any of several large predatory canids (genus Canis) that live and hunt in packs and resemble the related dogs; especially: gray wolf — compare coyote, jackal b: the fur of a wolf. Definition of WOLF for Kids. 1. : a large bushy-tailed wild animal that resembles the related domestic dog, eats meat, and often lives and hunts in packs. 2. : a crafty or fierce person. — wolf·ish \ˈwu̇l-fish\ adjective
The wolf is thought to be an ice age survivor, dating wolves around 300,000 years ago. The wolf is accepted to be the ancestor of the domestic dog as the wolf is thought to have selectively bred in order to breed appealing traits typical of puppies and to eliminate the not so appealing traits of adult wolves. The grey wolf is a highly adaptive animal found in all kinds of terrain.
A wolf-dog hybrid (also called a wolf hybrid or wolfdog) is a canid hybrid resulting from the mating of wolf (Canis lupus) and a dog (Canis familiaris). The term wolfdo … g is preferred by most wolfdog proponents and breeders since the domestic dog was recently taxonomically recategorized as a subspecies of wolf. Answer. Wolves (canis) are types of dog, the largest animal in the canine family. They are related to today's dogs and can be found many places. They are intelligent animals that have pricked ears, thick fur and dog-like builds.
The gray wolf or grey wolf (Canis lupus) also known as the timber wolf, or western wolf, is a canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America and Eurasia. It is the largest extant member of its family, with males averaging 43–45 kg (95–99 lb), and females 36–38.5 kg (79–85 lb). The gray wolf has very dense and fluffy winter fur, with short underfur and long, coarse guard hairs. Most of the underfur and some of the guard hairs are shed in the spring and grow back in the autumn period. The longest hairs occur on the back, particularly on the front quarters and neck.
There are many species of wolf. The most common is the grey or timber wolf (canis lupus) that looks a lot like a husky dog. They are found in deeply wooded forest areas north America (Canada) and russia and are tall wolves. Answer. Wolves (canis) are types of dog, the largest animal in the canine family. They are related to today's dogs and can be found many places. They are intelligent animals that have pricked ears, thick fur and dog-like builds.