While restaurants abound in the U.S., Americans report dining out only occasionally, which makes sense given their high reported frequency of eating at home. Gallup estimates from 2003 to 2008 found all U.S. adults reporting they eat dinner out at a restaurant 1.2 to 1.4 times per week, on average. At the same time, parents who work full time dine slightly less frequently with their families than those who work part time or who don't work (5.0 dinners vs. 5.3). Also, parents who are aged 35 and older enjoy fewer family dinners than do younger parents (5.0 dinners vs. 5.3, respectively).
Tweet. The average American household spends almost half of its food budget on eating out — out of about $6,000 US Dollars (USD) spent on food a year, about $2,700 USD goes to eating out. Alcoholic beverages alone contribute almost $500 USD to that budget. More about eating out : 
Dinner has often been a time for families to get together at the end of a hectic day. Nine in 10 households with children under 18 report that most of the family eats dinner together at least once per week, including 39 percent who do so all seven nights. Women were more likely than men to say they avoided fast food altogether: 63 percent of women skipped it, compared to 46 percent of men. Younger Americans ate fast food for dinner more often than did their elders, and those aged 18-29 were the most likely to eat it often.
The average 5.1 dinners that families share each week is down slightly from 5.4 in 1997, but unchanged from 2001. Since 1997, slightly more than half of parents have told Gallup they eat dinner together as a family at least six times per week, including between 35% and 38% saying they do so all seven days. At the same time, parents who work full time dine slightly less frequently with their families than those who work part time or who don't work (5.0 dinners vs. 5.3). Also, parents who are aged 35 and older enjoy fewer family dinners than do younger parents (5.0 dinners vs. 5.3, respectively).
Take a family of two adults and two teenagers, for example, and let’s say that they simply chose to eat one less meal out per week. On average, that family would save $35 from just that one meal change. For me, I like it better when eating out is a pleasure and not a routine. Because I eat out much less often than I once did, it’s something of a treat to eat at a restaurant, whereas it was once completely the norm. At an average cost of $12.75 per meal, you’d save yourself $8.75 for each of those meals. In other words, the average American would save $36.75 per person per week by moving all of their meals from restaurants to home-prepared meals.
If you’re living in the northeast, you’re likely spending more each time you go out for lunch. Northeasterners spend 14% more per meal than the national average at $11.40 for a weekly total of $17.10. Compare that with southerners who lead the regions of the country in spending per week. The average Southerner eats out twice per week, spending $10 each time for an average of $20 per week. It may not be the most important meal of the day but lunch is certainly among the most costly. Americans go out for lunch on average twice a week and spend $10 each time. That means they’re spending $936 annually.
The average American eats an average of 4.2 commercially prepared meals per week. In other words, as a nation, we eat out between four and five times a week, on average. At an average cost of $12.75 per meal, you’d save yourself $8.75 for each of those meals. In other words, the average American would save $36.75 per person per week by moving all of their meals from restaurants to home-prepared meals.
When Americans eat out at restaurants, it's American food they choose, though tastes for Mexican, Italian and Chinese food vary from region to region. But most Americans still cook at home most nights, with many men doing at least some of that cooking. Women were more likely than men to say they avoided fast food altogether: 63 percent of women skipped it, compared to 46 percent of men. Younger Americans ate fast food for dinner more often than did their elders, and those aged 18-29 were the most likely to eat it often.
Slight majority says family eats together at least six days a week. PRINCETON, NJ -- As families gather around the table this holiday season, Gallup finds that family dining is a part of everyday life for the majority of U.S. parents, and that it hasn't diminished much in recent years. At the same time, parents who work full time dine slightly less frequently with their families than those who work part time or who don't work (5.0 dinners vs. 5.3). Also, parents who are aged 35 and older enjoy fewer family dinners than do younger parents (5.0 dinners vs. 5.3, respectively).
In December 2003, Gallup also asked parents in Canada and Great Britain** how often their families eat together each week. Both Canadian and British parents are more likely than American parents to say that their families have dinner at home every night; 40% of Canadian parents say so, as do 38% of British parents. 