Mexican Posole Stew. An authentic Mexican stew made with red chili pods, pork roast, pork rinds, and pigs' feet (use pork shanks instead of pigs' feet if you are squeamish). You can also substitute hominy for the posole if it is not available in your grocery store. 
Pozole (Nahuatl: pozolli po'solːi (help·info)), which means hominy; variant spellings: pozole, pozolé, pozolli or more commonly in The.U. – s) posole is a traditional-Pre columbian soup or stew From, mexico which once had ritual. significance Pozole was mentioned in Fray Bernardino de Sahagun 'sahagún S General history of The things Of New spain circa. 1500
1 Stir in the canned hominy, pork broth (if there is not enough pork broth, add chicken stock, I like to add it anyway for flavor, about 2-4 cups, eyeball the amount you like), green chilies and jalapenos (optional). 2  Cook at a simmer, covered, for 45 to 60 minutes until the meat and hominy are tender. 
Try this thick and hearty red posole recipe, the Mexican soup that's perfect for a one-dish meal. There are three main versions of this hominy stew, each representing a color of the Mexican flag. Red posole, like this version, is made from dried chiles; our stew features ancho chiles. The green version is made from fresh chiles, and white posole has no chiles. Stir in pork, pureed chiles, toasted ground cumin, broth, sugar, salt, and hominy; bring to a simmer. Cook 30 minutes or until pork is tender. Spoon 1 2/3 cups posole into each of 6 bowls; top each serving with 1 tablespoon radishes, 1 tablespoon green onions, and 1 tablespoon cilantro.
Cut the reserved pork into 1 inch cubes and add to the pan. Stir in the canned hominy, pork broth (if there is not enough pork broth, add chicken stock), green chilies and jalapenos (optional). Cook at a simmer, covered, for 45 to 60 minutes until the meat and hominy are tender. If you remove bran (also known as the pericarp) and the germ from a kernel of corn, you are left with the endosperm or sometimes called hominy. When the hominy is ground, we have what is commonly called “hominy grits”, a popular dish in the south.
Traditional Mexican Posole is served with shredded cabbage, lime wedges, avocado, onion, cilantro, and, of course, warm tortillas. Many Mexican markets have posole meat already chopped up for you. You can add another can of hominy if your slow-cooker is large. 1 Heat the canola oil in a skillet over high heat. 2  Add the pork; cook and stir just until meat is browned on all sides, about 5 minutes. 3  Place the meat in a 4 quart slow cooker. 4  Pour the enchilada sauce over the meat. 5  Top with the hominy, onion, chilies, garlic, cayenne pepper, and oregano.
Posole, also spelled pozole, is a Mexican soup (stew) from pre-Columbian times made with hominy, peppers and some sort of meat. Most of the time you see posole made with a tough cut of pork like the shoulder but Paula tells me she sometimes makes it with chicken or turkey which cuts down the cooking time by a lot. 
Since maize was a sacred plant for the Aztecs and other inhabitants of Mesoamerica, pozole was made to be consumed on special occasions. Pozole was mentioned in Fray Bernardino de Sahagun 'sahagún S General history of The things Of New spain circa. 1500