Sunshine Coast is a metropolitan area and the third most populated area in the Australian state of Queensland. Located 100 km north of the state capital Brisbane in South East Queensland on the Pacific Ocean coastline, its urban area spans approximately 60 km of coastline and hinterland from Pelican Waters to Tewantin. Sunshine Coast Stadium is located at Kawana Waters and is home to the region's sporting teams in state-wide competitions. The Sunshine Coast Falcons compete in the Queensland Cup rugby league competition while the Sunshine Coast Fire FC compete in the National Premier Leagues Queensland Football competition.
Queensland (abbreviated as Qld) is the second-largest and third-most-populous state in Australia. Situated in the north-east of the country, it is bordered by the Northern Territory, South Australia and New South Wales to the west, south-west and south respectively. To the east, Queensland is bordered by the Coral Sea and Pacific Ocean.
Queensland has a population of 4,750,500, concentrated along the coast and particularly in the state's South East. The state is the world's sixth largest sub-national entity, with an area of 1,852,642 km 2. The capital and largest city in the state is Brisbane, Australia's third largest city. Often referred to as the Sunshine State, Queensland is home to 10 of Australia's 30 largest cities and is the nation's third largest economy. Queensland was first inhabited by Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders. Situated in the north-east of the country, it is bordered by the Northern Territory, South Australia and New South Wales to the west, south-west and south respectively. To the east, Queensland is bordered by the Coral Sea and Pacific Ocean.
Brisbane-capital and largest city of Queensland state; located in the southeastern corner of Queensland on the Pacific; settled by British as a penal colony; 3rd largest city in Australia. Cape York Peninsula-a peninsula in Queensland in northeastern Australia between the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Coral Sea. Queensland. n. 1. (Placename) a state of NE Australia: fringed on the Pacific side by the Great Barrier Reef; the Great Dividing Range lies in the east, separating the coastal lowlands from the dry Great Artesian Basin in the south. Capital: Brisbane.
Queensland is Australia’s second largest start and the most northern on the east coast. Located less than an hours’ drive south of Brisbane, Queensland’s Gold Coast is famous for fun. The Gold Coast attracts holiday makers from the rest of Australia and the world to enjoy its glorious wide white sandy beaches, hinterland forests, fun and water parks and the party city of Surfer’s Paradise.
Brisbane & Queensland. Brisbane, the capital city of Queensland, is midway up the east coast of Australia – 27.5 o S, 153 o E. With the Gold Coast to the south and the Sunshine Coast to the north, domestic and international airports, Brisbane is an ideal headquarters for an Australian holiday. 
Interesting facts about Queensland. With an area of 1,727,000 square kilometres, Queensland is the second largest state in Australia. The biggest is Western Australia. Queensland is nearly five times the size of Japan, seven times the size of Great Britain, and two and a half times the size of Texas
Known as the sunshine state. Queensland is Australia’s second largest start and the most northern on the east coast. It is known as the “Sunshine state” and the state where “Australia shines”, famous for its perennially blue skies and picture postcard white sandy beaches. Located less than an hours’ drive south of Brisbane, Queensland’s Gold Coast is famous for fun. The Gold Coast attracts holiday makers from the rest of Australia and the world to enjoy its glorious wide white sandy beaches, hinterland forests, fun and water parks and the party city of Surfer’s Paradise.
Queensland. Pristine beaches, tropical islands, lush rainforests, vibrant cities and the authentic Australian outback, Queensland is the ultimate holiday destination. Known as Australia’s Sunshine State, Queensland offers an abundance of diverse experiences to create lasting memories. Brisbane is the state’s capital city, a city full of energy, style, arts and culture. The Brisbane River snakes through the metropolis and is peppered with alfresco dining options.