Sign in to Windows on your old PC, press Windows, enter Easy Transfer and click Windows Easy Transfer from the search results. Step 7. Click the Next button and then click An External Hard Disk or USB Flash Drive.. Step 8. Click This is My Old PC and then click the Next button.
On your new Mac: 1  Open Migration Assistant, which is in the Utilities folder of your Applications folder. 2  Click Continue. 3  When asked how you want to transfer your information, select the option to transfer from a Mac, Time Machine backup, or startup disk. 4
Sometimes your data is not all you will want to transfer from your old computer. You may also want to move over some of your favorite programs and applications. The only complication is that you may have to upgrade those programs and applications for compatibility with your new computer. If you use Windows Easy Transfer* to move your data from one computer to another, you will also get recommendations on which apps and programs you may want to install on your new machine.
USB. USB ports and devices, such as thumb drives, are also a fast and easy way to transfer files from one computer to another computer using either of the below USB options. Method one. USB thumb drives and USB hard drives are an easy way to transfer data between computers and a good backup solution.
Step 1. Sign in to Windows using your new PC and then press the Windows key to open your Windows Start screen. Step 2. Enter Easy Transfer in the search field and then click Windows Easy Transfer from the app search results to open Windows Easy Transfer.
Transferring Your Files from a Mac* to a PC or to a Mac. You can take the same approach as with manual file transfers above by connecting your external hard drive to your new computer with a USB cable and manually moving the files over.
You can find it at your 'My Computer'. Then you open the folder and you highlight all the files that you want to be transferred to the other usb and press ctrl+c (not at the same time but hold onto ctrl then press c) or you could just press right click and press copy.