Geologists have long been challenged to explain how geodes, those mysterious spherical rocks, are formed. Geodes are a variable phenomenon, which means that they may be created in various different ways. The term geode is derived from the Greek word Geoides which means earthlike.. A geode is a round rock which contains a hollow cavity lined with crystals. Rocks which are completely filled with small compact crystal formations such as agate, jasper or chalcedony are called nodules. The only difference between a geode and a nodule is that a geode has a hollow cavity, and a nodule is solid. 
Like a cave, the mineral rich solution that leaves crystals behind inside a geode is a naturally occurring process between groundwater and the surrounding rock. Crystal size, color and chemical composition will vary and each individual geode is unique. Clear quartz, smoky quartz, amethyst, calcite, celestite, and chalcedony are examples of some minerals you may find inside a geode. Geodes from the same location often have the same type of mineral crystals. Some geodes are filled in with beautiful layers of mineral crystals.
Coloration. Most geodes contain clear quartz crystals, while others have purple amethyst crystals. Still others can have agate, chalcedony, or jasper banding or crystals such as calcite, dolomite, celestite, etc. There is no easy way of telling what the inside of a geode holds until it is cut open or broken apart. 
Which minerals end up as crystals in a geode varies by location and conditions such as temperature, acidity, and the type of rock the geode forms from. For instance, quartz crystals are most common in igneous geodes. Geodes can also form in sedimentary rocks such as limestone or sandstone. The cavity in these rocks is usually formed from a solid core. A mass of minerals, or nodule, in the sediment may begin to dissolve and leave space behind.
Geodes (Greek γεώδης - ge-ōdēs, earthlike) are commonly independent spherical masses of resistant mineral matter that are usually hollow. The extreme filling of a geode so that it is solid is also common. Some people refer to completely in-filled geodes as nodules, but the two names are not always consistently used. Geodes differ from nodules in that a nodule is a solid mass of mineral matter, but some nodules may have a tiny void space in their interiors and the distinction between a geode and a nodule may be barely discernible if the cavity is miniscule.
Inside and outside views of the geode. Geodes (Greek γεώδης - ge-ōdēs, earthlike) are geological secondary structures which occur in certain sedimentary and volcanic rocks. Most geodes contain clear quartz crystals, while others have purple amethyst crystals. Still others can have agate, chalcedony, or jasper banding or crystals such as calcite, dolomite, celestite, etc. There is no easy way of telling what the inside of a geode holds until it is cut open or broken apart.
Large geodes for sedimentary geodes would be any geode over the size of 6 to 8 inches. Volcanic geodes are considered large after 4 to 5 inches. The hollowness of a geode also contributes to the value. The more hollow the geode the bigger the crystals and more minerals that can be found inside. Sedimentary geodes. Geode a term from a Greek word meaning earth shaped are irregular roughly spherical rocks. They can be oblong or shaped like invertebrate fossils. Many of the geodes found in Michigan and Indiana show distinct signs of fossil replacement.
A geode is a type of rock formation that occurs when a pocket of air or gas is trapped and forms a cavity in sedimentary or igneous rock. A hard crust forms around the outside of the cavity. Groundwater, which often carries dissolved minerals in solution, seeps through the rock over a long period of time. Clear quartz, smoky quartz, amethyst, calcite, celestite, and chalcedony are examples of some minerals you may find inside a geode. Geodes from the same location often have the same type of mineral crystals. Some geodes are filled in with beautiful layers
Geodes differ from vugs in possessing an outer mineral layer which is more resistant to weathering than the host rock. As such, complete geodes commonly weather out of rock exposures and accumulate in canyons, talus, rock detritus, etc. Geodes differ from nodules in that a nodule is a solid mass of mineral matter, but some nodules may have a tiny void space in their interiors and the distinction between a geode and a nodule may be barely discernible if the cavity is miniscule.