The present book contains a collection of papers presented at the symposium “ Bioactive compounds in plants-risks and benefits for man and animals” held in Oslo 13-14 November 2008. An organising committee was led by Aksel Bernhoft and also consisting of Helle Margrete Meltzer, Jan Alexander and Arne Flaoeyen. flåøyen Thanks are also expressed to Nina Bakkelund at the National Veterinary Institute for contributing to the book layout. On behalf of the symposium committee, Aksel Bernhoft National Veterinary Institute, Oslo, Norway; Committee for Information and Research in Geomedicine, The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.
A bioactive compound is a compound that has an effect on a living organism, tissue or cell. While nutrients are essential to the sustainability of a body, the bioactive compounds are not essential since the body can function properly without them, or because nutrients fulfil the same function. Bioactive compounds can have an influence on health.
Section IV contains a miscellany of other bioactive compounds such as cruciferous vegetables, which are known to have multiple effects, including on drug metabolizing enzymes. The emphasis is mainly on epidemiological and intervention studies in breast cancer, with a link to hormonal effects. The introductory three sections are dietary macro-constituents, carotenoids/vitamins/minerals and non-nutritionally essential bioactive compounds. These sections emphasize the importance of environmental factors in cancer, but underestimate the influence of genetic factors at only 5%.
In addition, the molecular approach for screening bioactive compounds is also discussed, as well as examples of applications of these compounds on human health. The first half of the book comprises information on diverse sources of bioactive compounds, ranging from microorganisms and algae to plants and dietary foods. The second half of the book reviews synthetic approaches, as well as selected bioactivities and biotechnological and biomedical potential. Bioactive compounds have been identified from diverse sources and their therapeutic benefits, nutritional value and protective effects in human and animal healthcare have underpinned their application as pharmaceuticals and functional food ingredients.
A type of chemical found in small amounts in plants and certain foods (such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, oils, and whole grains). Bioactive compounds have actions in the body that may promote good health. They are being studied in the prevention of cancer, heart disease, and other diseases. Examples of bioactive compounds include lycopene, resveratrol, lignan, tannins, and indoles. 
Organosulfur compounds in garlic and onions, isothiocyanates in cruciferous vegetables, and monoterpenes in citrus fruits, cherries, and herbs have anticarcinogenic actions in experimental models, as well as cardioprotective effects. In summary, numerous bioactive compounds appear to have beneficial health effects. Much scientific research needs to be conducted before we can begin to make science-based dietary recommendations. Despite this, there is sufficient evidence to recommend consuming food sources rich in bioactive compounds. From a practical perspective, this translates to recommending a diet rich in a variety of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, oils, and nuts. [PubMed-indexed for MEDLINE]. The impetus sparking this scientific inquiry was the result of many epidemiologic studies that have shown protective effects of plant-based diets on cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer. Many bioactive compounds have been discovered.
The bioactive compounds of plant origin that will be discussed in this review are phenolic compounds, including flavonoids, resveratrol, and phytoestrogens; lycopene; organosulfur compounds; plant sterols; dietary fibers; tea; red wine; isothiocyanates; and monoterpenes. Organosulfur compounds in garlic and onions, isothiocyanates in cruciferous vegetables, and monoterpenes in citrus fruits, cherries, and herbs have anticarcinogenic actions in experimental models, as well as cardioprotective effects. In summary, numerous bioactive compounds appear to have beneficial health effects.
Bioactive compounds are found in both plant and animal products or can be synthetically produced. Examples of plant bioactive compounds are carotenoids and polyphenols (from fruits and vegetables), or phytosterols (from oils). Example in animal products are fatty acids, found in milk and fish. While nutrients are essential to the sustainability of a body, the bioactive compounds are not essential since the body can function properly without them, or because nutrients fulfil the same function. Bioactive compounds can have an influence on health.
12 term bioactive plant compound. The typical bioactive compounds in plants are produced as secondary metabolites. Thus, a definition of bioactive compounds in plants is: secondary plant metabolites eliciting pharmacological or toxicological effects in man and animals. Thanks are also expressed to Nina Bakkelund at the National Veterinary Institute for contributing to the book layout. On behalf of the symposium committee, Aksel Bernhoft National Veterinary Institute, Oslo, Norway; Committee for Information and Research in Geomedicine, The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.