Simply, lean means creating more value for customers with fewer resources. A lean organization understands customer value and focuses its key processes to continuously increase it. The ultimate goal is to provide perfect value to the customer through a perfect value creation process that has zero waste. To drive home the point that lean is not a program or short term cost reduction program, but the way the company operates. The word transformation or lean transformation is often used to characterize a company moving from an old way of thinking to lean thinking.
Like lean manufacturing, lean retailing is an approach to re-inventing a long established business practice by using new information technologies to cut out waste and make operations more profitable. Retailing consists of the sale of goods or merchandise from a fixed location, such as a department store or kiosk, or by post, in small or individual lots for direct con … sumption by the purchaser.[1] Retailing may include subordinated services, such as delivery.
Lean is a tool use in the industry (manufacturing) or in any type  of processing environment where waste exist. The purpose of using  lean is to eliminate waste in the proce … ss. Anything that doesn't  add any value to the process is considered waste, Muda. Retailing consists of the sale of goods or merchandise from a fixed location, such as a department store or kiosk, or by post, in small or individual lots for direct con … sumption by the purchaser.[1] Retailing may include subordinated services, such as delivery.
In many cases, Lean Retailing software systems will automatically place new orders for a given product froim the manufacturer as soon as an item is scanned at the check-out counter, and in some cases even the invoicing for that automatic order is automatized as well. Retailing consists of the sale of goods or merchandise from a fixed location, such as a department store or kiosk, or by post, in small or individual lots for direct con … sumption by the purchaser.[1] Retailing may include subordinated services, such as delivery.
Some international retailers that have adopted lean retailing techniques include Wal-Mart, Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s, The Gap and J. C. Penny. Applying lean philosophy to fashion retail in India may sound like an ‘avante garde’ concept as of now. In addition to top-line and bottom-line impact, lean retailing by enhancing the enthusiasm and motivation of the frontline staff creates distinctive shopping experiences for customers. Zara, the world’s largest clothing retailer, has successfully achieved supply chain excellence following lean principles.
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. The elimination of waste is the goal of lean, and Toyota defined three broad types of waste: muda, muri and mura; it should be noted that for many lean implementations this list shrinks to the first waste type only with reduced corresponding benefits.
Lean retailing aims to cut out the fat (waste) from the retail sourcing process to maximize profits for the retailer. Retailing consists of the sale of goods or merchandise from a fixed location, such as a department store or kiosk, or by post, in small or individual lots for direct con … sumption by the purchaser.[1] Retailing may include subordinated services, such as delivery.
Retail is the process of selling consumer goods and/or services to customers through multiple channels of distribution to earn a profit. Demand is created through diverse target markets and promotional tactics, satisfying consumers' wants and needs through a lean supply chain. In the 2000s, an increasing amount of retailing is done online using electronic payment and delivery via a courier or postal mail.
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. The elimination of waste is the goal of lean, and Toyota defined three broad types of waste: muda, muri and mura; it should be noted that for many lean implementations this list shrinks to the first waste type only with reduced corresponding benefits.
20 Analyzing and ImprovingProcesses  An integrated approach to utilizing Capital, Materials, andHuman resources to produce just what is needed, when it isneeded. In the amount needed with minimum Materials,Equipment, Labor and Space. A Lean Definition  Identify and eliminate waste(MUDA). 