Workplace reward systems are incentive programs that encourage employee engagement and productivity by offering bonuses, increased pay, additional time off or other awards for a job well done. Reward systems recognize staff members who excel in areas such as customer service, loyalty and sales ability. Workplace reward systems come in a variety of forms. Although many programs are performance-based, some reward for work ethic, tenure and/or attendance. Unscheduled absences cost organizations money. Absenteeism affects customer service because workers are not available to assist clients
The muscular system is made up of tissues that work with the skeletal system to control movement of the body. Some muscles—like the ones in your arms and legs—are voluntary, meaning that you decide when to move them. Other muscles, like the ones in your stomach, heart, intestines and other organs, are involuntary. One of the most important systems in your body, the nervous system is your body's control system. It sends, receives, and processes nerve impulses throughout the body. These nerve impulses tell your muscles and organs what to do and how to respond to the environment.
A company s medical program is an important part of the safety and health system. It can deliver services that prevent hazards that can cause illness and injury, recognize and treat illness and injury, and limit the severity of work-related injury and illness. 
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. One of the most important systems in your body, the nervous system is your body's control system. It sends, receives, and processes nerve impulses throughout the body. These nerve impulses tell your muscles and organs what to do and how to respond to the environment.
WHMIS is a short form for Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System. It is a comprehensive plan for providing information on the safe use of hazardous materials used in Canadian workplaces. Information is provided by means of product labels, material safety data sheets (MSDS) and worker education programs. If you have specific questions on the legislation, or enforcement that affect your workplace, you should contact the local office of the OH&S agency in your jurisdiction. You can also search for WHMIS information on the web site of the occupational health and safety
The national workplace relations system is established by the Fair Work Act 2009 and other laws and covers the majority of private sector employees and employers in Australia. As set out in the Fair Work Act 2009 and other workplace legislation, the key elements of our workplace relations framework are: 1  A safety net of minimum terms and conditions of employment. 2  A system of enterprise-level collective bargaining underpinned by bargaining obligations and rules governing industrial action
Australia’s workplace relations laws are enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament. The practical application of the Fair Work Act in workplaces is overseen by the Fair Work Commission and the Fair Work Ombudsman. As set out in the Fair Work Act 2009 and other workplace legislation, the key elements of our workplace relations framework are: 1  A safety net of minimum terms and conditions of employment. 2  A system of enterprise-level collective bargaining underpinned by bargaining obligations and rules governing industrial actio