Many of the basic ideas that animated the human rights movement developed in the aftermath of the Second World War and the atrocities of The Holocaust, culminating in the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Paris by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948. The first is that the right to a healthy or adequate environment is itself a human right (as seen in both Article 24 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, and Article 11 of the San Salvador Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights).
The purpose of the Universal Declaration Of Human Rights, is to  ensure that every human being is entitled to basic rights and  fundamental freedoms. It was adopted by the G … eneral Assembly of the  United Nations on 10 December 1948. 
Eleanor Roosevelt looks at the first printed copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Photo: United Nations. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was adopted after the end of World War II on 10 December 10, 1948 by United Nation (UN) General Assembly in Paris. UDHR was adopted after the world was drenched with atrocities by promising that war and conflict of such kind would never exist. The document was prepared by Chairperson of the Commission on Human Rights and group of researcher’s. Also referred as the international Magna Carta UDHR was formed by 18 UN members from various political, cultural and religious backgrounds that read: “Man’s desire for peace lies behind this Declaration.
The United Nations Charter reaffirmed faith in fundamental human rights, and dignity and worth of the human person and committed all member states to promote universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. A universal declaration that specified the rights of individuals was necessary to give effect to the Charter's provisions on human rights. Such a declaration was proposed by Cuban diplomats Guy Perez Pérez cisneros And Ernesto. Dihigo(source): S · alva 6 years. ago
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948 at the Palais de Chaillot, Paris. Canadian John Peters Humphrey was called upon by the United Nations Secretary-General to work on the project and became the Declaration's principal drafter. At the time, Humphrey was newly appointed as Director of the Division of Human Rights within the United Nations Secretariat.
On December 10, 1948 UDHR was adopted by 56 members of the United Nations where the vote was unanimous although eight nations choose to abstain. UDHR was proclaimed as important document closely linked with peace, a landmark for protecting the rights and dignity of people and beginning of a system. The document was prepared by Chairperson of the Commission on Human Rights and group of researcher’s. Also referred as the international Magna Carta UDHR was formed by 18 UN members from various political, cultural and religious backgrounds that read: “Man’s desire for peace lies behind this Declaration.
Why was the human rights act created. The Human rights act is a UK law passed in 1998. It means that you can defend your rights in the UK courts and that public organisations (including the Government, the Police and local councils) must treat everyone equally, with fairness, dignity and respect. Despite this, the Act is frequently misunderstood and misrepresented. The Human rights act may be used by every person resident in England or Wales regardless of whether or not they are a British citizen or a foreign national, a child or an adult, a prisoner or a member of the public.
The International Bill of Human Rights consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional Protocols. Canadian John Peters Humphrey was called upon by the United Nations Secretary-General to work on the project and became the Declaration's principal drafter. At the time, Humphrey was newly appointed as Director of the Division of Human Rights within the United Nations Secretariat.
The United Nations Human Rights Council, created at the 2005 World Summit to replace the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, has a mandate to investigate violations of human rights. The Human Rights Council is a subsidiary body of the General Assembly and reports directly to it. The first is that the right to a healthy or adequate environment is itself a human right (as seen in both Article 24 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, and Article 11 of the San Salvador Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights).
RE: why was the universal declaration of human rights created? i have been on this homework for 2 hours and cant find answers to a few question. can someone please help i have an hour before it needs to be finished. thank you please look at my other questions. A universal declaration that specified the rights of individuals was necessary to give effect to the Charter's provisions on human rights. Such a declaration was proposed by Cuban diplomats Guy Perez Pérez cisneros And Ernesto. Dihigo(source): S · alva 6 years. ago