Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is a molecule that contains the instructions an organism needs to develop, live and reproduce. These instructions are found inside every cell, and are passed down from parents to their children. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code.
Nucleic Acids are biopolymers, or large biomolecules, essential for all known forms of life. Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. 
Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses 
Functions of nucleic acids are: 1  The main functions is store and transfer genetic information. 2  To use the genetic information to direct the synthesis of new protein. 3  The deoxyribo nucleic acid is the storage for place for genetic information in the cell. 4  DNA controls the synthesis of RNA in the cell. Nucleic acids are large organic compounds found in the chromosomes of living cells and viruses. They are strong acids found in the nucleus of the cells. The nucleic acid polymers are with high molecular weights as high as 100,000,000 grams per mole.
Location: DNA is found in the cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells, and chiefly in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. A small fraction of total DNA is present in mitochondria and chloroplasts. Function: DNA is a long polymer of nucleotides to code for the sequence of amino acid during protein synthesis. DNA is said to carry the genetic ‘blueprint’ since it contains the instructions or information (called genes) needed to construct cellular components like proteins and RNA molecules. Supplement. Structure: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is composed of two strands that twist together forming a helix. Each strand consists of alternating phosphate (PO4) and pentose sugar (2-deoxyribose), and attached on the sugar is a nitrogenous base, which can be adenine, thymine, guanine, or cytosine.
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the information-carrying molecule found in all living organisms. In most animal, plant and fungal cells DNA is stored in the nucleus coiled up in thread-like structures called chromosomes. 
Types of Nucleic Acids. 1  DNA is one of the macromolecules, they are essential to all living forms. 2  Deoxyribonucleic acid contains the genetic information, it is used in the development and functioning of all living organisms. 3  The DNA segments carry genetic information are called the genes. Nucleic acids are large organic compounds found in the chromosomes of living cells and viruses. They are strong acids found in the nucleus of the cells. The nucleic acid polymers are with high molecular weights as high as 100,000,000 grams per mole.
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T).
Confidence votes 12. DNA(deoxyribonucleic acid)directs a cell's activities by specifying the structures of its proteins and by regulating which proteins and how much are produced, and where. In so doing, it never leaves the nucleus. Its basically the blueprints for everything in your body. 