Mark Cuban, left, as President of the United States, faces killer sharks with Ian Ziering in the Syfy film Sharknado 3: Oh Hell No! For connoisseurs of wonderfully bad television, there is a fine line between stuff that's so bad it's great fun to watch and stuff that's just bad.
'Sharknado' is an upcoming movie that is described as follows: When a freak hurricane swamps Los Angeles, thousands of sharks terrorize the waterlogged populace. And when the high-speed winds form tornadoes in the desert, nature’s deadliest killer rules water, land, and air.
'Sharknado 3: Oh Hell No!' premiered in the U.S. Wednesday night. Sharknado 3 had barely premiered Wednesday night before the studio announced a fourth installment of the cult movie hit, this time with a fan-driven twist. For Sharknado 4, fans will get to decide whether April, Tara Reid’s character, lives or dies.
Sharknado is a 2013 made-for-television disaster film about a waterspout that lifts sharks out of the ocean and deposits them in Los Angeles. It is the first installment in the Sharknado series. It first aired on the Syfy channel on July 11, 2013, and stars Tara Reid, Ian Ziering, and John Heard.
Email. “Sharknado” is the movie with the most unlikely plot in history -- a tornado scooping man-eating sharks out of the ocean and dumping them on Los Angeles. Even more unlikely, was the cult following that developed for this SyFy made-for-TV movie.
The OFFICIAL THEME SONG to Sharknado: http://youtu.be/GNm1c6rndM4. When a freak hurricane swamps Los Angeles, nature's deadliest killer rules sea, land, and air as thousands of sharks terrorize the waterlogged populace. Starring Tara Reid, Ian Ziering, John Heard, Cassie Scerbo, and Jaason Simmons.
Sharknado may have wreaked havoc on Los Angeles in Syfy's new movie, but it became a major, spontaneous phenomenon on Twitter during its Thursday night premiere. VIDEO: 'Sharknado' Trailer. The movie's title is currently the top trending topic on Twitter. Star Tara Reid and Syfy also are among the top 10 trends on the social media site. The movie centers on -- you guessed it -- a tornado filled with sharks.