Grass hays have a lower protein content, and are suitable for easy keepers, and other horses that do not require the extra calories. In general, grass hays are less expensive than legume hays, but because of demand by the horse market in some areas, grass hays can be more expensive. Fescue hay can cause toxicosis in pregnant mares when they eat tall fescue that is infected with an endophyte fungus, Acremonium coenephialum. Both the mare and the foal can be affected. Before feeding fescue hay to pregnant mares, a horse owner should make sure that the hay is free of the endophyte fungus.
1 Some types of hay are not recommended for horses. 2  Sorghum and Sudan grass are not suitable for horses. 3  Historically, oat straw was fed to horses. 4  Ask your veterinarian before trying straw or any other uncommon feed as a forage substitute. Horses need 1.5 to 2.0 % of their body weight in high quality roughage per day. Ideally, good quality hay or pasture is the best source of this roughage. But drought, storms or other emergencies may make hay scarce. Here are a few ideas to preserve and extend your hay supply
Sudan-grass and its relatives are not good for horses to eat as they can cause neurological problems. Sudan-grass is related to Johnsongrass, and Sorghum-grass and any of their hybrids. Horses eat hay, and oats, and many types of grass, such as alfalfa, just to name the most common feeds. They love carrots and watermelon and many other sweet treats. The feed … for horses will vary depending on their age and medical condition
Donkeys are grazing animals, just like horses. In the wild, they mainly graze on grass. However, they also eat straw, tree leaves, bark, some flowers and brambles. Donkeys that are are raised by humans are fed hay (dried grass) when the grass is not growing. Donkeys love eating bread, peppermints and ginger biscuits, but these rot their teeth!
Health Concerns when Feeding Forages to Horses: In addition to molds and fungi, some forage species contain chemical compounds that can have negative health effects on horses. Sudan grass and sorghum-sudangrass hybrids contain compounds which can cause muscle weakness, urinary problems and death in severe cases. Do not feed these grasses to horses! 
As hay continues to be in short supply in many areas, some will see the availability of Sudan hay as a solution. There is a great temptation to buy Sudan grass hay as it is CHEAP-it can be found in areas around Arizona for about $6/bale and Bermuda and alfalfa are expensive! I, personally, do not feed Sudan grass hay (also known as Love grass, Johnson grass, Sorghum/Sudan hybrids) to my horses, or let them graze on these grasses.
When horses eat too much grass, they can colic and founder or become laminitic. Colic is basically pain in the gastrointestinal system of the horse, which may be caus … ed by many things. It is the #1 reason for emergency visits by a veterinarian. It is also often fatal and must be treated quickly. If your horse has limited acess to grass then a constant supply of Hay or Haylage ma … y also be handy. If your horse does not like Hay however a Hay/Grass substitue can be bought from most good feed supliers. A horse can also eat a mixture of concentrated food like Chaff, Oats, Barley Etc etc etc....
Post Number: 1. I have received a load of beautiful, sudan grass. I usually feed alfalfa/meadow grass hay, but the gophers moved into that field and now the alfalfa/grass hay is too dusty for the horses. Anyhow, the sudan grass was hayed last summer and is green and soft and smells sweet.