Causes of Heart Palpitations. Many things can cause heart palpitations. In the vast majority of cases, the cause is either related to your heart or is unknown. Non-heart-related causes of palpitations include: 1  Strong emotions such as anxiety, fear, or stress; palpitations often occur during panic attacks. 2  Vigorous physical activity
Atrial flutter (AFL) is a type of abnormal heart rate, or arrhythmia. It occurs when the upper chambers of your heart (the atria) beat too fast. When the top of your heart (atria) beats faster than the bottom (ventricles), it complicates your heart rhythm. 
Palpitations (pal-pi-TA-shuns) are feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or too fast. You may have these feelings in your chest, throat, or neck. They can occur during activity or even when you're sitting still or lying down. These factors can make the heart beat faster or stronger than usual, or they can cause premature (extra) heartbeats. In these situations, the heart is still working normally. Thus, these palpitations usually are harmless. Some palpitations are symptoms of arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs).
A heart palpitation is an abnormal beating of the heart AND your heightened awareness of your heart beat. Palpitations can cause your heart to beat fast (tachycardia), slow (bradycardia), flutter, or to even have ‘skipped’ heart beats (PVCs). Heart palpitations can be caused by electrolyte imbalances, adrenaline, anemia, heart disease, arrhythmias, hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), and of course, anxiety disorders. Caution: If your palpitations are accompanied by dizziness, blurred vision, chest pain or shortness of breath, then it could be something more serious. The unfortunate reality is that panic attacks and intense anxiety can mimic symptoms of a heart attack.
Click the image to view an animation on Atrial Flutter. Atrial flutter (AFL) is a common abnormal heart rhythm, similar to atrial fibrillation, the most common abnormal heart rhythm. Both conditions are types of supraventricular (above the ventricles) tachycardia (rapid heart beat)
Heart palpitations are a feeling that your heart is beating too hard or too fast, skipping a beat, or fluttering. You may notice heart palpitations in your chest, throat, or neck. Heart palpitations can be bothersome or frightening. They usually aren't serious or harmful, though, and often go away on their own. In the vast majority of cases, the cause is either related to your heart or is unknown. Non-heart-related causes of palpitations include: 1  Strong emotions such as anxiety, fear, or stress; palpitations often occur during panic attacks.
Atrial flutter is an abnormality of the heart rhythm, resulting in a rapid and sometimes irregular heartbeat. Such abnormalities, whether in the rate or regularity of the heartbeat, are known as arrhythmias. The beating of the heart is controlled by electrical impulses. The main danger of atrial flutter is that the heart does not pump blood well when it is beating too fast. When blood is not pumped well, vital organs, such as the heart and brain, may not get enough oxygen from the blood. Atrial flutter can come and go; it is then known as paroxysmal atrial flutter
Atrial Flutter Causes. Atrial flutter may be caused by abnormalities or diseases of the heart, by a disease elsewhere in the body that affects the heart, or by consumption of substances that change the way electrical impulses are transmitted through the heart. In some people, no underlying cause is ever found. Heart diseases or abnormalities that can cause atrial flutter include the following: 1  Decreased blood flow to the heart (ischemia) due to coronary heart disease, atherosclerosis, or a blood clot.