Once … the urine is delivered, it is tested before it is refrigerated. There are changes in urine which can be detected by a microscope to see if it has been in the fridge even if you do manage to warm it to body temperature at delivery to the lab. Improved answer: I have been researching this for a bit now (I just tested positive for alcohol in a urine test) and while the one hour rule is good to use for say a breathalyzer or for a limit while driving, unfortunately this is not the case when you are about to take a urine test.
That depends on what you're testing for. Urine drug levels are good at room temp or in the fridge for several days. Microalbumin testing is also good for several days in the fridge. However, if the urine is being collected for a routine urinalysis or a microscopic, the urine needs to be tested as soon as possible. Yes, just make sure it is the normal temperature of urine if you use in a drug test. But freezing in until the drug test will be fine. If you are storing it for this purpose … , it may only stay good for a few days. Make sure it is a day or two fresh before using it
A-Samples should be stored in a refrigerator. If stored for extended periods of time then they should be frozen. The integrity of our samples is ensured by our proprietary vacuum seal. As long as the sample remains in its vacuum seal it may be kept at room temperature away from direct sunlight for days at a time. It will be good for up to six months, in the vacuum seal, if stored in the refrigerator. If frozen in the vacuum seal, it can last for about 1 year. Once the sample is removed from the vacuum seal, it should not remain at room temperature for more than 18 hours. It will keep in the refrigerator, unsealed, for 30 days. In the freezer, an unsealed bag can last up to 6 months. 
If you mean no bug growth then it also depends on the preservatives. No preservatives, less than 24 hours. with boric acid preservative, maybe a weekend. If you mean the substances tested in the urine. e.g. glucose, bence Jones protein etc, then it depends on what the test is for. Improved answer: I have been researching this for a bit now (I just tested positive for alcohol in a urine test) and while the one hour rule is good to use for say a breathalyzer or for a limit while driving, unfortunately this is not the case when you are about to take a urine test.
IamN2pot said: Always keep human urine in an air tight container. It will remain good at room/body temp for at least 8 hours, refrigerated up to 30 days and frozen up to 1 year. Hope that helps. All at room temp (except for the plane ride in the cargo hold). None have ever come back to me as no good or expired. I actually have no idea how long urine can be kept at room temp, refrigerated, or frozen. I do know that I keep urine longer than 8 hours until the delivery service gets here.
3. Get help from a doctor now ›. 1-4 days: Most sources list the time for positive Cocaine in the urine from urine drug screen to be 1 to 4 days, with an average time of 3 days. Confirmatory testing for Cocaine rarely reveals a false positive screening. ...Read more
3 to 5 days depending on the amount taken. i wouldn't recomend it to anyone not perscribed.   Of course it stays in your system for some amount of time.   You mean how … long does it stay in your system?   1-5 days depending on a lot of factors. Plus it's an odd one to test for. Improved answer: I have been researching this for a bit now (I just tested positive for alcohol in a urine test) and while the one hour rule is good to use for say a breathalyzer or for a limit while driving, unfortunately this is not the case when you are about to take a urine test.
4. Get help from a doctor now ›. 1-4 days: Most sources list the time for positive Cocaine in the urine from urine drug screen to be 1 to 4 days, with an average time of 3 days. Confirmatory testing for Cocaine rarely reveals a false positive screening. ...Read more.
I disagree. Urine at room temperature will be good for a few days not only 8 hours. Buzzby said: ↑. Room temp = 8 hrs. Refrigerator = 2 wks. Freezer = 1 yr. The standard sample size is 60 ml, which is approximately 2 oz., enough for a split sample.