Science Videos. Science Main Index. Thoracic cage, or rib cage, protects the heart, lungs and major blood vessels in the chest. The rib cage is made up of 12 pairs of bones forming the cage. Read on to learn more about how the thoracic cage protects the organs in the upper body. Ribs also protect parts of the stomach, spleen, and kidneys. The ribs help you to breathe. As you inhale, the muscles in between the ribs lift the rib cage up, allowing the lungs to expand. When you exhale, the rib cage moves down again, squeezing the air out of your lungs.
The bones of the rib cage are the sternum, the 12 thoracic vertebrae and the 12 pairs of ribs. The sternum is a flat bone that is made up of three parts, the (1) manubrium, (2) body, and the (3) xiphoid process. The top edge of the manubrium has a depression called the suprasternal or jugular notch. The rib cage has three important functions: protection, support and respiration. It encloses and protects the heart and lungs. It provides a strong framework onto which the muscles of the shoulder girdle, chest, upper abdomen and back can attach.
The rib cage consists of three types of bones: true, false and floating. It protects the vital organs in the upper body. The lungs and the heart are two main organs that it protects. The primary purpose of the rib cage is protection. It usually forms a barrier that encloses the heart and lungs hence protecting them. It also protects parts of the stomach, spleen and kidneys.
Ribs. The ribs partially enclose and protect the chest cavity, where many vital organs (including the heart and the lungs) are located. The rib cage is collectively made up of long, curved individual bones with joint-connections to the spinal vertebrae. 
In vertebrate anatomy, ribs (Latin: costae) are the long curved bones which form the rib cage. In most tetrapods, ribs surround the chest, enabling the lungs to expand and thus facilitate breathing by expanding the chest cavity. They serve to protect the lungs, heart, and other internal organs of the thorax. 
The Ribs. The ribs are flat, thin bones that, together with the sternum, make up the ribcage. The ribs provide protection for vital organs in the upper body, including the heart and lungs. The ribs also help to protect major vessels in the upper body. There are twelve pairs of ribs, accounting for 24 total rib bones.
3 types of rib: True, false and floating. Ribcage: Protects your heart and lungs. True, false and floating ribs. Your ribcage is assembled from three types of bone-your sternum, 12 pairs of ribs and 12 thoracic vertebrae. All of your ribs attach to your spine, but only the top seven pairs connect to your sternum. These are known as 'true ribs' and they are connected to your sternum by strips of cartilage
The ribs are thin, flat, curved bones that form a protective cage around the organs in the upper body. The rib cage is made up of 24 bones arranged in 12 pairs. These bones are divided into three groups: true ribs, false ribs and floating ribs. 
The rib cage protects the heart, lungs, liver, pancreas, and spleen. Your arms protect your rib cage and the rib cage protects the lungs and heart.