The National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) is is a UK-wide partnership between the government, charity and industry that promotes co-operation in cancer research. This week it published its 10-year anniversary report [pdf], which outlines how much its 21 member organisations have spent on cancer research in the UK. Now, they’re spending almost double on cancer research each year – over £500m. This is hugely encouraging, and such investment bodes well for the future of people with cancer in the UK and beyond. After all, it’s thanks to research that cancer survival rates have doubled in past 40 years.
In the US, the figure has been placed at $100 billion. The cost of cancer research is highest for breast cancer, at over $6 billion. Lung and prostate cancer both cost $5 billion. These expenses do not include pap smears, colorectal tests and mammograms. Add these in, along with chemotherapy and other ailments and the figure is around $3 billion. 
Unfortunately, one cannot find out the cumulative amount that is spent on cancer research as the research is carried on by government as well as private cancer research facilities. The National Cancer Institute spends around $5 million to $6 million every year on cancer research. Some states in the US have their own research facilities and fund cancer research on their own. For instance, California spends $10 million to $12 million each year on cancer research funded by the state.
Using the NCI as an example for cancer research and how money is allocated, according to their fact sheet breast cancer is the primary investment target for most funds and received $572.6 million in 2008 alone. Though projections for 2010 are still difficult to determine it is likely that the amount of funds for cancer research will continue to grow to help the over 1.2 million people that are diagnosed with cancer each year and help save the nearly 600,000 people that die annually in the US alone from cancer afflictions.
On the amount spent on cancer research: More than 40 years after the war on cancer was declared, we have spent billions fighting the good fight. The National Cancer Institute has spent some $90 billion on research and treatment during that time. As a result of the billions put into cancer research, we do know a lot about what causes cancer, how cancers grow, and how cancers spread. We have ideas about how to stop cancer. But the process of translating laboratory advances into the clinic has been agonizingly slow
The American Cancer Society itself has spent more than $2 billion dollars on funding cancer research in the effort to find a cure for cancer. The National Cancer Institute spends around $5 million to $6 million every year on cancer research. Some states in the US have their own research facilities and fund cancer research on their own. For instance, California spends $10 million to $12 million each year on cancer research funded by the state. Similarly, there are other government organizations that spend quite a bit of money each year to further the cause of cancer research
If we're not curing cancer effectively, we know how to reduce the risk preventatively, but as a society, we're not doing that. We haven't spent our money wisely, the graph on proportional cancer funding for research shows how much is spent on breast cancer relatively to other cancers. This is because of how effective the breast cancer lobbying and activist groups have been in obtaining research funding. As a result of the billions put into cancer research, we do know a lot about what causes cancer, how cancers grow, and how cancers spread. We have ideas about how to stop cancer. But the process of translating laboratory advances into the clinic has been agonizingly slow
The runner up following this was prostate cancer, receiving $285.4 million, with colorectal cancer coming in third at $273.7 million. The cancer receiving the least allocated funds is actually uterine cancer, being granted only $17.1 million in 2008. Though projections for 2010 are still difficult to determine it is likely that the amount of funds for cancer research will continue to grow to help the over 1.2 million people that are diagnosed with cancer each year and help save the nearly 600,000 people that die annually in the US alone from cancer afflictions.
The data offer only a partial snapshot of public cancer spending in this country, as other government offices, such as the U.S. Department of Defense, also fund breast and prostate cancer research. The big loser in the cancer funding race is lung cancer. It is the biggest cancer killer in the country, yet on a per-death basis receives the least N.C.I. funding among major cancers. In 2006, the N.C.I. spent $1,518 for each new case of lung cancer and $1,630 for each lung cancer death, according to data from the institute and the American Cancer Society.