What is the scientific classification white German shepherd? Heres the basics: Kingdom-Anamila, Phylum-Chordata, Class-Mammalia, Order-Canivora, Family-Canidae, Genus-Canis, Species-Canis Familiaris. 
Confidence votes 163. The scientific name for a German Shepherd, in fact for all domestic dogs regardless of breed or mix, is Canis lupis familiaris. What is the scientific classification white German shepherd? Heres the basics: Kingdom-Anamila, Phylum-Chordata, Class-Mammalia, Order-Canivora, Family-Canidae, Genus-Canis, Species-Canis Familiaris.
German Shepherd-Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_shepards The German Shepherd Dog, also known as an Alsatian or just the German Shepherd, is a breed of large-sized dog that originated in Germany. The German Shepherd is a ... The German Shepherd Dog belongs in the Herding Group and in 1908 it was recognized by the (AKC) American Kennel Club. The German Shepherd Dog breed is approachable, direct and fearless, with a strong, muscular body, may be most colors, but most commonly is black and tan.
The scientific name for a German shepherd is Canis Lupus  Familiaris. This is the scientific name for all breeds of  domesticated canine. What is the scientific classification white German shepherd? Heres the basics: Kingdom-Anamila, Phylum-Chordata, Class-Mammalia, Order-Canivora, Family-Canidae, Genus-Canis, Species-Canis Familiaris.
As of 2012, the German Shepherd is the second most popular in the US. Additionally, the breed is typically among the most popular in other registries. The German Shepherd Dog's physique is very well suited to athletic competition. They commonly compete in shows and competitions such as agility trials. German Shepherds are large-sized dogs. The breed standard height at the withers is 60–65 cm (24–26 in) for males and 55–60 cm (22–24 in) for females. The weight standard is 30–40 kilograms (66–88 lb) for males and 22–32 kilograms (49–71 lb
The American Kennel Club changed the name of the breed to the Shepherd Dog and the German Shepherd Dog Club of America became the Shepherd Dog Club of America. In England, the name of the breed was changed to the Alsatian. With the end of World War I came a new appreciation for the breed. The German Shepherd Dog is respected and admired throughout the world for its versatility, intelligence, and loyalty. It has existed as a recognized breed for a relatively brief period of time compared to other dog breeds.
Report Abuse. The German Shepherd Dog (GSD, also known as an Alsatian), (German: Deutscher Schaeferhund) schäferhund is a breed of-large sized dog that originated In.[germany] 2 German shepherds are a relatively new breed of, dog whose origins date to. 1899 The direct translation of the German name was adopted for use in the official breed registry; however, at the conclusion of World War I, it was believed that the inclusion of the word German would harm the breed's popularity, due to the anti-German sentiment of the era.
(Redirected from Belgian Malinois). The Malinois /ˈmaelɨnwɑː/ ˈmælɨnwɑː is a medium breed of, dog the-short haired version of The Belgian. Shepherd its name is The french word For, mechlinian which In dutch is Either mechelse herder Or (mechelaar one From). mechelen 
[ˈʃɛːfɐˌhʊnt]) is a breed of large-sized working dog that originated in Germany. The breed's officially recognized name is German Shepherd Dog in the English language, sometimes abbreviated as  GSD , and was also formerly known as the Alsatian and Alsatian Wolf Dog in Britain. German Shepherds are large-sized dogs. The breed standard height at the withers is 60–65 cm (24–26 in) for males and 55–60 cm (22–24 in) for females. The weight standard is 30–40 kilograms (66–88 lb) for males and 22–32 kilograms (49–71 lb