Simple and easy to use. Every part of GNOME 3 has been designed to make it simple and easy to use. The Activities Overview is an easy way to access all your basic tasks. A press of a button is all it takes to view your open windows, launch applications or check if you have new messages. Finely crafted. Every aspect of GNOME 3 has been crafted to fit together as a harmonious whole, so that it offers a consistent and integrated experience. We have paid a huge amount of attention to detail, resulting in a smooth and polished product that is satisfying to use and beautiful to behold.
add a comment |. up vote 2 down vote. GNOME is a project that provide support GNOME desktop environment, which in turn uses the GNOME Shell as default shell. I will presume you are talking about the differences between the Unity shell and GNOME Shell (which are the only things that can be accurately compared). GNOME is a lot of things. Usually, GNOME refers to GNOME Desktop Environment. Quoting the Arch Wiki: A desktop environment bundles together a variety of X clients to provide common graphical user interface elements such as icons, toolbars, wallpapers, and desktop widgets.
GNOME (pronounced /ɡˈnoʊm/ or /ˈnoʊm/) is a desktop environment that is composed entirely of free and open-source software. GNOME is an acronym for GNU Network Object Model Environment. Its target operating system is Linux, but it is also supported on most derivatives of BSD.
About. Introduction. Ubuntu GNOME is an official flavour of Ubuntu, featuring the GNOME desktop environment. Ubuntu GNOME (formerly Ubuntu GNOME Remix) is a mostly pure GNOME desktop experience built from the Ubuntu repositories. Our first (unofficial) release was 12.10 (Quantal Quetzal), released in October 2012. The first official release was 13.04 (Raring Ringtail) . The latest stable release is Ubuntu GNOME 15.04 (Vivid Vervet) . Please join us and contribute to an exciting, international, free and open source software project. We look forward to working together with you. 
GNOME 3: Ease, comfort and control. GNOME 3 is an easy and elegant way to use your computer. It is designed to put you in control and bring freedom to everybody. GNOME 3 is developed by the GNOME community, a diverse, international group of contributors that is supported by an independent, non-profit foundation. 
GNOME Shell provides core interface functions like switching windows, launching applications or see your notifications. It takes advantage of the capabilities of modern graphics hardware and introduces innovative user interface concepts to provide a delightful and easy to use experience. GNOME Shell is the defining technology of the GNOME 3 user experience. GNOME Shell project takes a highly considered and open approach to design. Designers are involved in every stage of the development process from start to finish. The design process is not a hit and run-slap it on in the end affair. If you are a designer and would like to get involved we'd love to hear from you.
How to Install & Use GNOME Shell on Ubuntu. sudo apt-get install gnome-shell. Give GNOME Shell a spin if you’re looking for a slick, new Linux desktop environment. It’s similar to Unity in some ways, but more flexible in others – GNOME Shell supports extensions, which can add missing features. The Desktop. GNOME Shell’s desktop includes a minimal interface with just a top bar. By default, there’s no way to launch applications or view open windows without pulling up the Activities screen. Of course, the standard Alt-Tab keyboard shortcut works. The items on the top bar work similarly to the ones in Unity.
Related Terms. 1  GNOME 3. 2  Mint GNOME Shell Extensions-MGSE. 3  user defined function. 4  XML Schema Definition-XSD. 5  DDL. 6  SDE-software defined environment. 7  software-defined servers. 8  MIDL. 9  Software-Defined Everything-SDE. 10  SDS-software-defined storage. 
GNOME Shell is the graphical shell of the GNOME desktop environment starting with version 3, which was released on April 6, 2011. It provides basic functionality like launching applications, switching between windows and is also a widget engine. 