mam·ma·ry gland. One of the glands in female mammals that produces milk. It is present but undeveloped in the male. In most animals, the gland opens onto the surface by means of a nipple or teat. Any of the milk-producing glands in female mammals, consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat. These glands typically occur in pairs and begin secreting milk when young are born.
mammary gland. n. 1. (Anatomy) any of the milk-producing glands in mammals. In higher mammals each gland consists of a network of tubes and cavities connected to the exterior by a nipple. 2. (Zoology) any of the milk-producing glands in mammals. Any of the milk-producing glands in female mammals, consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat. These glands typically occur in pairs and begin secreting milk when young are born.
Mammary gland: One of the two half-moon-shaped glands on either side of the adult female chest, which with fatty tissue and the nipple make up the breast. Within each mammary gland is a network of sacs that produce milk during lactation and send it to the nipple via a system of ducts. Undeveloped mammary glands are present in female children and in males. See also Breast, Lactation. 
Mammary gland. The mammary gland is a gland located in the breasts of females that is responsible for lactation, or the production of milk. Both males and females have glandular tissue within the breasts; however, in females the glandular tissue begins to develop after puberty in response to estrogen release. 
A mammary gland is an organ in female mammals that produces milk to feed young offspring. Mammals get their name from the word mammary.. In humans, the mammary glands are situated in the breasts. In ruminants such as cows, goats, and deer, the mammary glands are contained in the udders. The mammary glands of mammals other than primates, such as dogs and cats, are sometimes called dugs. After delivery, lactation occurs within the mammary gland; lactation involves the secretion of milk by the luminal cells in the alveoli. Contraction of the myoepithelial cells surrounding the alveoli will cause the milk to be ejected through the ducts and into the nipple for the suckling pups.
Medical Definition of MAMMARY GLAND. : any of the large compound sebaceous glands that in female mammals are modified to secrete milk, are situated ventrally in pairs, and usually terminate in a nipple. : any of the large compound modified sebaceous glands that in female mammals are modified to secrete milk, are situated ventrally in pairs, and usually terminate in a nipple. See mammary gland defined for English-language learners. See mammary gland defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Full Definition of MAMMARY GLAND. : any of the large compound modified sebaceous glands that in female mammals are modified to secrete milk, are situated ventrally in pairs, and usually terminate in a nipple. See mammary gland defined for English-language learners. See mammary gland defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Mammary gland. A mammary gland is an organ in female mammals that produces milk to feed young offspring. Mammals get their name from the word mammary.. In humans, the mammary glands are situated in the breasts. In ruminants such as cows, goats, and deer, the mammary glands are contained in the udders. The mammary glands of mammals other than primates, such as dogs and cats, are sometimes called dugs.
Noun. 1. mammary gland-milk-secreting organ of female mammals. mamma. female mammal-animals that nourish their young with milk. dug-an udder or breast or teat. udder, bag-mammary gland of bovids (cows and sheep and goats). Any of the milk-producing glands in female mammals, consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat. These glands typically occur in pairs and begin secreting milk when young are born.