1. Rinse chicken with cold water and pat dry. Chicken leg quarters. 2. Mix all the herbs/spices together in a separate bowl. Mixed spices. 3. Rub mixture over chicken leg quarters and place in to a baking pan. Rubbed chicken. 4. Drizzle some olive oil over the leg quarters, and pop in the oven for 40-50 minutes. Make sure you bake them until the juices run clear.
1 Arrange chicken thighs/leg quarters skin side up in a shallow baking dish. 2  Sprinkle with garlic powder. 3  Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce on each piece. 4  Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 45 minutes to an hour, until the skin is crisp and brown and the meat is ready to fall off the bones. Baked Chicken Thighs/Leg Quarters. 5 5. This was so easy and tasty, thank you! I used my Nu-wave oven so I covered mine for the first part of the cooking time then let it crisp up, served with sweet pepper rice and steamed broccoli.
1 Dip the leg quarters in the bowl and generously coat chicken with the flour/spice mixture. 2  Place leg quarters, skin side down on the foil and bake for 30 minutes. 3  Turn chicken and reduce heat to 325 degrees and bake 35-45 minutes longer or until chicken is done. 1 Generously coat foil/pan with oil. 2  Mix the flour and all the spices in a large bowl. 3  Dip the leg quarters in the bowl and generously coat chicken with the flour/spice mixture. 4
5. Move the chicken to the other side of the grill (away from the heat source) and grill with the grill lid down for about 45 minutes, or until a thermometer inserted into the thickest portion of the chicken leg quarter registers 170 degrees. 3. Brush both sides of the chicken leg quarters with the olive oil and season with the salt and pepper. 4. Place the chicken directly over the heat and grill with the lid open for about 3 minutes per side.
Directions. 1  Arrange chicken thighs/leg quarters skin side up in a shallow baking dish. 2  Sprinkle with garlic powder. 3  Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce on each piece. 4  Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 45 minutes to an hour, until the skin is crisp and brown and the meat is ready to fall off the bones. Baked Chicken Thighs/Leg Quarters. 5 5. This was so easy and tasty, thank you! I used my Nu-wave oven so I covered mine for the first part of the cooking time then let it crisp up, served with sweet pepper rice and steamed broccoli.
1 Place leg quarters, skin side down on the foil and bake for 30 minutes. 2  Turn chicken and reduce heat to 325 degrees and bake 35-45 minutes longer or until chicken is done. 1 Generously coat foil/pan with oil. 2  Mix the flour and all the spices in a large bowl. 3  Dip the leg quarters in the bowl and generously coat chicken with the flour/spice mixture. 4 
How to Oven-Bake Chicken Legs and Chicken Quarters. Baked chicken legs are the ultimate in effortless, budget-friendly cooking. Simply season and pop them in the oven, leaving you free to prep the rest of the meal. Baking the Chicken: Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes
1 Brush both sides of the leg quarters with soy sauce. 2  Sprinkle the skin with garlic powder, seasoned salt and dill weed (to taste). 3  Place on middle rack in over and bake uncovered for an hour. 4  After an hour, increase oven temp to 400 and bake 15 minutes. 
1 Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce on each piece. 2  Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 45 minutes to an hour, until the skin is crisp and brown and the meat is ready to fall off the bones. Baked Chicken Thighs/Leg Quarters. 5 5. This was so easy and tasty, thank you! I used my Nu-wave oven so I covered mine for the first part of the cooking time then let it crisp up, served with sweet pepper rice and steamed broccoli.