1 Do-it-yourself pool cleaning runs $20-$100 per month for chemicals during the summer after initial purchase of pool tools including a vacuum head and hose from $50, and a maintenance kit with a wall brush, leaf skimmer, test kits and telescopic pole for around $60. We've had a green pool that we had to clean back to clear and blue a few times because of storms and power outtages. To include all chlorine, equipment repair and replacement, algaecide, and clarifier $50-$60 a month is what it costs. If you have someone do it for you they do deserve labor costs above and beyond that.
1 Regular filter cleaning costs around $60-$65. 2  Power vacuuming is intense cleaning for a neglected pool and runs $55-$124 per hour. 3  Pools that are properly covered during the winter will require an opening service that prepares the pool for summer use. We've had a green pool that we had to clean back to clear and blue a few times because of storms and power outtages. To include all chlorine, equipment repair and replacement, algaecide, and clarifier $50-$60 a month is what it costs. If you have someone do it for you they do deserve labor costs above and beyond that.
We stock all the pool cleaning supplies you need. Keep your pool sparkling clean with our pool supplies and pool equipment. 
All prices include insurance against damage or theft. Because you have chosen to put one or more products on our extendedpayment plan,an initial service fee of $9.95 will be added on your credit card to the first payment: $4.95 will be added to all subsequent payments. BROWSE CHEMICALS. Pool chemicals are important to keeping your pool water crystal clear and safe to swim in. From bromine to chlorine, pool shock to algaecides and pool clarifiers, In the Swim delivers the pool chemicals you need to maintain a healthy swimming pool.
$0.48. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Clean a Pool! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Pool Cleaning project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Clean a Pool ranges between $0.35 - $0.48 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project:
Our above ground pools make everyday a vacation. Your backyard will become a vacation paradise for fun filled days with your family and friends. CPP. above ground pools make an inviting, refreshing morning swim, a cool afternoon dip, or just relaxation any time of the day. 
At Pool Product 4 Less we offer a variety of great pool products at discount prices. Whether you need items for your pool or for your hot tub or spa, we can help. Our top brands include: BioGuard, Hayward, Filbur, SpaGuard, Natural Chemistry, Poolmaster, Polaris, Jandy, Intex, Zodiac, Swimline, Pentair, and more. We offer pool toys and accessories, too, that help you get the most fun out of your pool and best of all, we can ship these supplies directly to your doorstep so that you can spend less time in line-ups at the pool supply store and more time poolside.
BROWSE POOL EQUIPMENT. Pool equipment is the heart of your pool. Pieces like the pool pump and pool filter circulate and clean your pool’s water. In the Swim delivers quality pool equipment from top brands like Hayward and Kreepy Krauly at a great value with excellent service. Even pool equipment you don’t think much about or see such as a pool heater and chemical feeder are vital to your enjoyment in the pool. It’s always best to invest in quality pool equipment, which can cost more, but not at In the Swim.
Posted: May 4th, 2015 11:05AM. $60 - $100 is the cost of materials (depending on the season and frequency of use) to keep my fairly large pool and pump (which are both over 30 yrs old) sanitized and in working, usable condition. This cost should generally be a bit lower with modern pools and equipment. We've had a green pool that we had to clean back to clear and blue a few times because of storms and power outtages. To include all chlorine, equipment repair and replacement, algaecide, and clarifier $50-$60 a month is what it costs. If you have someone do it for you they do deserve labor costs above and beyond that.