Best Answer: if something can be mixed with another thing. for example, sugar and water are miscible. oil and water and not miscible. In the chemistry perspective: silver nitrate is miscible with water lauric acid is not miscible with water. Miscible is used when liquid dissolves in another liquid. Soluble means to disolve a solid in liquid. It is suitable to use miscible with Liquid to Liquid. Ex: Alcohol is miscible in water. Sugar is solu
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: Immiscible is the property where two substances are not capable of combining to form a homogeneous mixture. Examples: Oil and water are immiscible liquids
Confidence votes 676. Miscibility is the property of 2 liquids to be able to mix in all proportions. Such as water and alcohol can be mixed in any proportion and still form a solution. In an immiscible liquid there will be only a range of proportions where the fluid forms a single solution. 
Miscibility /mɪsɨˈbɪlɨti/ is the property of substances to mix in all proportions, forming a homogeneous solution. The term is most often applied to liquids, but applies also to solids and gases. Water and ethanol, for example, are miscible because they mix in all proportions. By contrast, substances are said to be immiscible if a significant proportion does not form a solution. Otherwise, the substances are considered miscible.
EXPERT ANSWER. Two liquids are said to be miscible if they completely mix and thus form a homogeneous mixture. For example ethanol and water, benzene and carbon tetrachloride etc. Immiscible liquids are those which do not mix completely. Hence a mixture of two immiscible liquids is not homogeneous but heterogeneous. For example benzene and water
Miscibility refers to the ability of a liquid to completely dissolve in another liquid solution. A distinct layer between two liquids will not form when you have a solution that is labeled miscible. When a distinct layer does form in a mixed solution this is called immiscibility. Lesson Summary. Miscibility refers to solutions where a liquid dissolves completely in another liquid. These solutions are also referred to as homogenous mixtures. When miscible, the ability to form two distinct layers in a solution does not exist. Instead, a miscible solution is uniform with a single layer present
Miscible and immiscible are you to describe what happens when substances (usually liquids) are mixed together. If 2 layers are formed, like when oil is mixed with water, then … the oil would be described as immiscible in water as it does not form a solution. Immiscible refers to inability to mix two liquids or even two solids. Gases are al … ways miscible. Oil and water are immiscible and, if mixed, separate into two different phases, the oil phase and the water phase. 11 people found this useful.