Vegan Sorbet. Sorbet is a delicious frozen dessert that's usually vegan.. Sorbet is a fruity frozen dessert that usually, but not always, vegan (honey and dairy products may make an unwelcome appearance, so always check the ingredients.). A low-fat and cholesterol free alternative to ice cream, sorbet is made from frozen pureed fruits, sugar and water, resulting in a dense and very flavorful dessert. You can buy sorbet at almost any market, as well as at most ice cream parlors. Sorbet is often confused with sherbet, which always contains milk products.
User Rating. A simple fat-free vegan sorbet recipe made with just four simple ingredients. You can make this vegan strawberry sorbet in your blender or food processor, so you don't need an ice cream maker. Remove from the heat and cool. When the sugar syrup is completely cooled, add the pureed fruit and mix well. Place in a plastic contained and freeze, uncovered, until it is solid. Cut the sorbet into chunks, then process in a blender or food processor until smooth and creamy. Put the sorbet back into the freezer and allow to freeze for another 4 hours. Enjoy your dairy-free and fat-free vegan sorbet
My pick for the best dairy-free vegan ice cream is Soy Delicious Purely Decadent. This vegan ice cream is organic, free of refined sugars, lower in fat than traditional ice cream, and comes in avariety of flavors from the popular Chocolate Peanut Butter Zig Zag to the classic flavors of Mint Chip and Rocky Road. I'm also a huge fan of the Chicago Soy Dairy's Temptation brand vegan ice cream, which is much richer and creamier than any other soy ice cream I've ever tried. And I've tried a lot! The Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough flavor is simply to die for.
Apple-Cranberry Crisp. Crisps are a great vegan dessert that have a lot of texture and crunch. The oats are a healthy component, adding fiber to the dish. This dessert is great served warm or cold and can be paired with vegan ice cream. 
Sorbet /sɔrˈbeɪ/ is a frozen dessert made from sweetened water with flavouring (typically fruit juice or fruit puree, purée, wine/and or, liqueur and very rarely). Honey. contents Sorbet, on the other hand, is considered by Americans to be a fruity frozen product with no dairy content, similar to Italian ice. Sherbet in the United States must include dairy ingredients such as milk or cream to reach a milkfat content between 1% and 2%.
Sorbets. Sorbet is a frozen dessert that can consist of fruit juice, sugar or flavored water. Sorbets do not include added fat, although they may include small amounts of fat if it a fatty ingredient is included as a flavoring ingredient such as nuts or seeds. Sorbet recipes are vegan by default so they do not need to be altered to be dairy-free. 4 results-showing 1 - 4