DEMOCRACY. DEFINITION, CHARACTERISTICS AND FORMS OF MODERN DEMOCRACY. The term democracy originates from the antiquity and denotes people`s power (from the Greek: demos people and kratos power). It has become the most widely spread in politics. But as a result of wide use it lost the clear content. The common features of democracy, as a modern constitutional order and regime of political system functioning, are as below: - recognition of people as the source of the state power.
Full Definition of DEMOCRACY. 1. a: government by the people; especially: rule of the majority b: a government in which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them directly or indirectly through a system of representation usually involving periodically held free elections. Definition of DEMOCRACY for Kids. 1. : government by the people: majority rule. 2. : government in which the highest power is held by the people and is usually used through representatives. 3. : a political unit (as a nation) governed by the people
Links. A Short Definition of Democracy U.S. president Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865) defined democracy as: «Government of the people, by the people, for the people» Democracy is by far the most challenging form of government-both for politicians and for the people. The term democracy comes from the Greek language and means  rule by the (simple) people. The so-called democracies in classical antiquity (Athens and Rome) represent precursors of modern democracies. Like modern democracy, they were created as a reaction to a concentration and abuse of power by the rulers. The term democracy comes from the Greek language and means rule by the (simple) people. The so-called democracies in classical antiquity (Athens and Rome) represent precursors of modern democracies.
Direct democracy (also known as pure democracy) is a form of democracy in which people decide (e.g. vote on, form consensus on) policy initiatives directly. This differs from the majority of modern Western-style democracies, which are indirect democracies. Direct democracy is similar to, but distinct from, representative democracy in which people vote for representatives who then enact policy initiatives.
And unlike ancient democracy it believes in universal adult franchise, all adults have right to vote. SO the definition of MODERN DEMOCRACY is a form of government, where a constitution guarantees basic personal and political rights, fair and free elections, and independent courts of law.. Best Answer: Democracy actually originated in Greece. the word Democracy is derived from the Greek: δημοκρατία - (dēmokratia) dēmokratía the power to the people which was coined from (δῆμος) demos dêmos people (and) κράτος, Kratos krátos power a form of democracy Was practised In athens and rome which granted power. to the citizens
1. government by the people; a form of government in which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised directly by them or by their elected agents under a free electoral system. 2. a state having such a form of government. 3. a state of society characterized by formal equality of rights and privileges. 4. political or social equality; democratic spirit. 5. the common people, esp. with respect to their political power.
Representative democracy is a form of democracy in which people vote for representatives who then vote on policy initiatives as opposed to a direct democracy, a form of democracy in which people vote on policy initiatives directly. Karl Popper defined democracy in contrast to dictatorship or tyranny, thus focusing on opportunities for the people to control their leaders and to oust them without the need for a revolution.
Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary. Karl Popper defined democracy in contrast to dictatorship or tyranny, thus focusing on opportunities for the people to control their leaders and to oust them without the need for a revolution.