Imagine having an account that grows tax-free during your lifetime and pays you tax-free amounts on a yearly basis! That is what a Roth IRA can be to your heirs, such as your children and grandchildren. This after-death tax-free growth is sometimes referred to as the stretchout IRA concept. The answer is that if you have a Traditional IRA or if you are considering converting a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, you will still need to be concerned about the Required Minimum Distributions rules.
In contrast to a traditional IRA, contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. Withdrawals are generally tax-free, but not always and not without certain stipulations (i.e., tax-free for principal withdrawals and the owner's age must be at least 59½ for tax-free withdrawals on the growth portion above principal). 1 In 2008, one cannot contribute $6667 to a traditional IRA due to the contribution limit, so the post-tax Roth contribution may be larger. 2  On estates large enough to be subject to estate taxes, a Roth IRA can reduce estate taxes since tax dollars have already been subtracted.
Example: You inherit a Roth IRA that was established two years earlier. The Roth IRA includes $96,000 from a rollover contribution and $4,000 of earnings. You can immediately withdraw the entire $100,000 and pay tax (but no penalty) on the $4,000 of earnings. One rule that does not change is the requirement for the Roth IRA to exist at least five years before earnings can be withdrawn tax-free. To be more precise, earnings can be withdrawn tax-free beginning on the first day of the fifth taxable year after the year the Roth IRA was established. That means January 1, 2018 for Roth IRAs established in 2013, for example
If you own a Roth IRA at death and it passes to someone other than your spouse, it will be included in your taxable estate. There is one way Roth IRAs provide an estate tax benefit. Roth IRAs contain after-tax dollars. That means the size of your estate has been reduced by the amount of tax you paid on those dollars. One rule that does not change is the requirement for the Roth IRA to exist at least five years before earnings can be withdrawn tax-free. To be more precise, earnings can be withdrawn tax-free beginning on the first day of the fifth taxable year after the year the Roth IRA was established. That means January 1, 2018 for Roth IRAs established in 2013, for example
One of the greatest benefits of a Roth IRA, especially when compared to other investment assets such as a Traditional IRA or 401k retirement plan, is that a Roth IRA can be passed on to an heir when you die. 
And while estate taxes may have to be paid on the value of the Roth IRA upon your death, no part of the Roth IRA will be subject to income tax to your beneficiaries. This is completely different from a traditional IRA. The value of a traditional IRA will be included in your estate. But the traditional IRA earnings will also be taxed as income to your beneficiaries. This could cause a very large combined estate/income tax to be assessed against your traditional IRA. A Roth IRA can eliminate much of this tax burden because Roth earnings are not subject to income tax, either to you or to your heirs.
As with a traditional IRA, if your spouse is your Roth IRA beneficiary, and you happen to go to the great beyond, your spouse can treat your Roth IRA as her own. She can keep the Roth IRA intact. But the traditional IRA earnings will also be taxed as income to your beneficiaries. This could cause a very large combined estate/income tax to be assessed against your traditional IRA. A Roth IRA can eliminate much of this tax burden because Roth earnings are not subject to income tax, either to you or to your heirs.
If you decide to have a non-spouse as your Roth IRA beneficiary, your rules will be a little different. When the beneficiary is not a spouse, that beneficiary must take the Roth IRA distributions: 1  By the end of the year containing the fifth anniversary of the account owner's death; or. But the traditional IRA earnings will also be taxed as income to your beneficiaries. This could cause a very large combined estate/income tax to be assessed against your traditional IRA. A Roth IRA can eliminate much of this tax burden because Roth earnings are not subject to income tax, either to you or to your heirs.
1 Assets in the Roth IRA can be passed on to heirs. 2  The Roth IRA does not require distributions based on age. 3  All other tax-deferred retirement plans, including the related Roth 401(k) , require withdrawals to begin by April 1 of the calendar year after the owner reaches age 70½. 1 In 2008, one cannot contribute $6667 to a traditional IRA due to the contribution limit, so the post-tax Roth contribution may be larger. 2  On estates large enough to be subject to estate taxes, a Roth IRA can reduce estate taxes since tax dollars have already been subtracted.