The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them. 
In most cases, the inferior parathyroid glands become localized near the inferior poles of the thyroid, and the thymus continues to migrate toward the mediastinum. The superior parathyroid glands are derived from the fourth pharyngeal pouch and migrate together with the ultimobranchial bodies. Parathyroid vascular anatomy. The inferior parathyroid gland is supplied by the inferior thyroid artery from the thyrocervical trunk. Studies have shown that in approximately 10% of patients, the inferior thyroid artery is absent, most commonly on the left side.
The parathyroid glands are two pairs of glands usually positioned behind the left and right lobes of the thyroid. Each gland is a yellowish-brown flat ovoid that resembles a lentil seed, usually about 6 mm long and 3 to 4 mm wide, and 1 to 2 mm anteroposteriorly. The parathyroid glands are variable in number: three or more small glands, and can usually be located on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland. Occasionally, some individuals may have six, eight, or even more parathyroid glands.
The Thyroid Gland. The thyroid gland is located in the neck. Follicles in the thyroid secrete thyroglobulin, a storage form of thyroid hormone. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) from the anterior pituitary causes conversion of thyroglobulin into thyroid hormones T4 and T3. Almost all body cells are targets of thyroid hormones. Peptides are short chains of amino acids; most hormones are peptides. They are secreted by the pituitary, parathyroid, heart, stomach, liver, and kidneys. Amines are derived from the amino acid tyrosine and are secreted from the thyroid and the adrenal medulla. Solubility of the various hormone classes varies.
Developmental Aspects of the Endocrine System. Endocrine glands derived from mesoderm produce steroid hormones; those derived from ectoderm or endoderm produce amines, peptides, or protein hormones. Environmental pollutants have been demonstrated to have effects on sex hormones, thyroid hormone, and glucocorticoids. 
The parathyroid glands are small endocrine glands in the neck of humans and other tetrapods that produce parathyroid hormone. Humans usually have four parathyroid glands, variably located on the back of the thyroid gland, although considerable variation exists. Parathyroid hormone and calcitonin (one of the hormones made by the thyroid gland) have key roles in regulating the amount of calcium in the blood and within the bones. The parathyroid glands are variable in number: three or more small glands, and can usually be located on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland. Occasionally, some individuals may have six, eight, or even more parathyroid glands.
3. zona reticularis. All these zones produce hormones derived from cholesterol, which is abundant in the cells. The adrenal cortex represents 80-90% of the adrenal gland. The adrenal medulla is primarily involved in the production of catecholamines; epinephrine and norepinephrine. 
The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands. By regulating the functions of organs in the body, these glands help to maintain the body’s homeostasis.
Endocrine Glands. The endocrine glands do not have ducts to carry their product to a surface. They are called ductless glands. The word endocrine is derived from the Greek terms endo, meaning within, and krine, meaning to separate or secrete.
The thymus is also derived from the third pharyngeal pouch. The inferior parathyroid glands are derived from the dorsal part of the third pharyngeal pouch, and the thymus arises from the ventral part of the third pharyngeal pouch. As the inferior parathyroid glands and the thymus migrate together toward the mediastinum, they eventually separate. Parathyroid vascular anatomy. The inferior parathyroid gland is supplied by the inferior thyroid artery from the thyrocervical trunk. Studies have shown that in approximately 10% of patients, the inferior thyroid artery is absent, most commonly on the left side.