Chloroplast: Structure. Plant chloroplasts develop mainly in cells located in plant leaves. Chloroplasts and other plastids develop from cells called proplastids. Proplastids are immature, undifferentiated cells that develop into different types of plastids. A proplastid that develops into a chloroplast, only does so in the presence of light. 
Chloroplasts are located in all cells of a leaf, while specific location is likely random and unimportant. And the process that differentiates plants from animals is photosynthesis. Report Abuse. Chloroplasts are located in all cells of a leaf, while specific location is likely random and unimportant. And the process that differentiates plants from animals is photosynthesis. AskThatGuy · 7 years ago.
chloroplasts can be located in many places in a leaf.. guard cells,spongy mesophyll, palisade mesophyll, Palisade mesophyll contains the most amount of chloroplasts.... beca … use that is where the energy from the sun is trapped, therefore the plant needs to have many chloroplasts in order to capture the light energy..
Functions of the leaf. Chloroplasts chloroplast: Microscopic structure containing chlorophyl found in green plant cells where photosynthesis takes place. are the tiny structures in plant cells where photosynthesis happens. Chloroplasts contain chlorophyll chlorophyll: The green chemical inside the chloroplasts of plant cells. It enables photosynthesis to take place. , a green pigment that absorbs light energy for photosynthesis. However, chloroplasts are not found in all plant cells.
The majority of chloroplasts found in a leaf are located in the  cells of the palisade layer. because that is where the energy from the sun  is trapped, therefore the plant needs to have many chloroplasts in  order to capture the light energy.  …   The palisade cells are long and wide in order to increase the  surface area of contact with the sun.. 12 people found this useful.
Best Answer: Chloroplasts are located within any plant cells that are able to conduct photosynthesis. If a structure on a plant is green, then it contains chloroplasts. Within leaves, where most photosynthesis takes place, chloroplasts are found mostly in the palisade layer of mesophyll (middle tissue). They are also found in the spongy layer of the mesophyll, but less frequently
Palisade cells are a type of leaf tissues and can be found within the mesophyll in leaves of dicotyledonous plants. They contain chloroplasts, which convert the energy stored in photons to chemical energy through photosynthesis. Third, the palisade mesophyll contains the largest per-cell number of chloroplasts in the plant; usually positioned towards the upper surface of the leaf in order to harness the greatest amount of energy possible. Palisade cells are placed near the top of a leaf, maximising the extent of light absorption.
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. 
Palisade mesophyll... because that is where the energy from the sun is trapped, therefore the plant needs to have many chloroplasts in order to capture the light energy.. ex … tra* the palisade cells are long and wide in order to increase the surface area of contact with the sun.. because that is where the energy from the sun  is trapped, therefore the plant needs to have many chloroplasts in  order to capture the light energy.  …   The palisade cells are long and wide in order to increase the  surface area of contact with the sun.. 12 people found this useful.