Divide the inventory costs by the average inventory value. Calculate average inventory value by adding beginning inventory to ending inventory (monthly, quarterly or annually) and dividing by 2. For instance, if average inventory is $50,000 and inventory costs are $5,000, then the answer is 10 percent.
Carrying Cost of Inventory %: Input your annual carrying cost percentage. Carrying costs are typically between 24% to 48% per year. If you don’t know your Inventory Carrying Cost, the following will assist you in calculating it.
For example, if a company’s average inventory is $25,000 and the average inventory carrying cost is 20 percent, it will cost the company $5,000 per year to carry an average inventory of $25,000. An inventory holding cost that is 20 percent of the average value of inventory is probably too low.
As a rule of thumb, inventory carrying cost is approximately 25% of a company’s average annual inventory investment, but when you tally up all the relevant carrying costs, it can run as high as 40% or more.
Current Inventory $: Input your current total inventory (dollars). Carrying Cost of Inventory %: Input your annual carrying cost percentage. Carrying costs are typically between 24% to 48% per year. If you don’t know your Inventory Carrying Cost, the following will assist you in calculating it.
What is Inventory Carrying Cost? Inventory carrying cost is a ratio which describes the relationship between the cost-of-owning-inventory-per-year and the inventory value. For example, if your inventory carrying cost is 25% and your annual average inventory is $1M, then your annual cost of owning inventory is $250K. The rule of thumb for inventory carrying cost is between 20% and 30%. Inventory carrying cost is different for every business.
Carrying cost of inventory is often described as a percentage of the inventory value. This percentage could include taxes, employee costs, depreciation, insurance, cost to keep items in storage, opportunity cost, cost of insuring and replacing items, and cost of capital that help produce income for a business.