NEXT. ... The diuretic furosemide is prescribed to reduce swelling and fluid retention caused by medical conditions and also as a supplement to reduce strain on the heart from high blood pressure ... Furosemide www.lifescript.com/health/a-z/drugs_a-z/drugdatabase/p/pms-furosemide.aspx. Furosemide. ... Lasix®. Medications. Medications used in acute or chronic kidney failure may include: Diuretics —to flush out the kidneys, increase urine flow, and rid the body of excess sodium (eg, furosemide, mannitol); Blood pressure medications (eg, ACE inhibitors); ...
Diuretics, sometimes called water pills, help rid your body of salt (sodium) and water. They work by making your kidneys put more sodium into your urine. The sodium, in turn, takes water with it from your blood. Examples of diuretics. There are three types of diuretics: thiazide, loop and potassium-sparing. Each works by affecting a different part of your kidneys, and each may have different uses, side effects and precautions. Which diuretic is best for you depends on your health and the condition being treated.
BRAND NAME: Lasix. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Furosemide is a potent diuretic (water pill) that is used to eliminate water and salt from the body. In the kidneys, salt (composed of sodium and chloride), water, and other small molecules normally are filtered out of the blood and into the tubules of the kidney
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. For high blood pressure, diuretics, commonly known as water pills, help your body get rid of unneeded water and salt through the urine. Getting rid of excess salt and fluid helps lower blood pressure and can make it easier for your heart to pump.
A diuretic is a medicine which increases the amount of water that you pass out from your kidneys. (A diuretic causes an increase in urine (a diuresis.) So, they are sometimes called water tablets. There are different types of diuretics. Loop diuretics are one type. They include furosemide, bumetanide and torasemide. Each comes in different brand names. 
Furosemide (INN / BAN), previously frusemide (former BAN), is a loop diuretic used in the treatment of congestive heart failure and edema. It is most commonly marketed by Sanofi under the brand name Lasix, and also under the brand names Fusid and Frumex. Along with some other diuretics, furosemide is also included on the World Anti-Doping Agency 's banned drug list due to its alleged use as a masking agent for other drugs.
The FDA approved furosemide in July 1982. PRESCRIBED FOR: Furosemide is a powerful diuretic that is used to treat excessive accumulation of fluid and/or swelling (edema) of the body caused by heart failure, cirrhosis, chronic kidney failure, and the nephrotic syndrome. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Furosemide is a potent diuretic (water pill) that is used to eliminate water and salt from the body.
In medicine, diuretics are used to treat heart failure, liver cirrhosis, hypertension, water poisoning, and certain kidney diseases. Some diuretics, such as acetazolamide, help to make the urine more alkaline and are helpful in increasing excretion of substances such as aspirin in cases of overdose or poisoning. Loop diuretics, such as furosemide, inhibit the body's ability to reabsorb sodium at the ascending loop in the nephron, which leads to an excretion of water in the urine, whereas water normally follows sodium back into the extracellular fluid.
Diuretics, sometimes called water pills, treat a variety of conditions, such as high blood pressure, glaucoma and edema. Find out more about this class of medication. Examples of diuretics. There are three types of diuretics: thiazide, loop and potassium-sparing. Each works by affecting a different part of your kidneys, and each may have different uses, side effects and precautions. Which diuretic is best for you depends on your health and the condition being treated.