1 A front windshield typically costs $10-$150 to repair a chip or crack, and $100-$400 for a replacement, although it can cost $500-$1,500 for a rare windshield. 1 The repair or replacement can be done in a shop or by a mobile service (mobile service typically costs slightly more). 2  Auto insurance often covers the full cost of windshield repair or replacement, although some policies have a deductible charge of $100-$300 for replacement.
1 Repairing a small chip in a windshield typically costs $10-$60, depending on location and whether the work is done in a shop or as a mobile service (the technician comes to the vehicle, and typically charges slightly more than in-shop work); plus $10-$25 for each additional chip. 1 If the vehicle has windshield wipers attached to the windshield, these wipers will need to be replaced at an average cost of $7-$20 each.
The replacement of a windshield may have additional costs, depending on the type of vehicle. Vehicles with special molding requirements will add up to $20 to the cost of repair. If the windshield has wipers attached, this will result in another $10 to $20 increase in the cost of repair. A damaged windshield poses a danger to drivers and passengers that can be avoided by having repairs completed as soon as possible. The price range for the repair or replacement of a windshield is between $20 and $325.
Typical costs: 1  A front windshield typically costs $10-$150 to repair a chip or crack, and $100-$400 for a replacement, although it can cost $500-$1,500 for a rare windshield. 2  The repair or replacement can be done in a shop or by a mobile service (mobile service typically costs slightly more). 1 The repair or replacement can be done in a shop or by a mobile service (mobile service typically costs slightly more). 2  Auto insurance often covers the full cost of windshield repair or replacement, although some policies have a deductible charge of $100-$300 for replacement.
Cost of Windshield Replacement. Windshield repair cost is not a fixed amount. It varies depending upon the type of repair, type and severity of damage, and the auto glass service that you prefer. Sometimes, the repair can be done within a few tens of dollars while, it might go up to certain hundreds of dollars. On an average, front or rear windshield glass costs around $300. If the damage is just a crack then the repairs can do the work for you. Usually, if the crack is more than 24 inches then, the damage is said to be too big that repairs cannot handle the issue.
The replacement or repair costs vary based on front or back windshield replacement. Generally, front windshield replacement costs more than back one. On an average, front or rear windshield glass costs around $300. If the damage is just a crack then the repairs can do the work for you. Usually, if the crack is more than 24 inches then, the damage is said to be too big that repairs cannot handle the issue.
1 CostHelper readers report paying $150-$300 for a windshield replacement, at an average cost of $214. 2  WindshieldsToGo.com provides an online form to estimate the cost of windshield replacement with and without installation, based on zip code and the year, make, model and style of vehicle. 1 If the vehicle has windshield wipers attached to the windshield, these wipers will need to be replaced at an average cost of $7-$20 each.
A new windshield can cost you in the range of around $100 to $300, depending upon the type of glass, type of vehicle, and the glass company you choose. However, additional costs vary if you choose for a glass that needs molding. On an average, front or rear windshield glass costs around $300. If the damage is just a crack then the repairs can do the work for you. Usually, if the crack is more than 24 inches then, the damage is said to be too big that repairs cannot handle the issue.
1 Comprehensive auto insurance often covers windshield replacement, either with a $100-$300 deductible or with no deductible amount due, according to the Insurance Information Institute. 2  Windshield repair or replacement is typically done by a shop or mobile service specializing in auto glass work. 1 If the vehicle has windshield wipers attached to the windshield, these wipers will need to be replaced at an average cost of $7-$20 each.
To find out how much a replacement windshield costs for your vehicle, use the price quote request form above or call our customer service team at 877-664-8931. Replacement windshield cost depends on the make and model of your car and the type of glass you select. Even for a single model, such as the Ford Focus, there can be a number of different types of windshields.