Food is passed through the esophagus before it reaches the stomach. Mainly, the stomach simply acts as storage. The average stomach can expand to hold approx. 1/2 gallon of fo … od. The stomach contains acids that are strong enough to dissolve most metals, to aid in cleaning bacteria. Digesting food is to break down the complex molecules of the food to simpler ones so the bo … dy can use it in the way it wants to. The function of each organ in the digestive system is to help convert food into simpler molecules so it can absorbed by your body and can then be used by the cells.
Gullet. Gullet. 1. (Science: anatomy) The tube by which food and drink are carried from the pharynx to the stomach; the oesophagus. 2. Something shaped like the food passage, or performing similar functions; as: a channel for water. 
Report Abuse. The gullet, or oesophagus, is the long tube that food travels down where it then enters the stomach for further digestion The walls of the oesophagus are muscular and contract in order to 'force' food down; this is called peristalsis. Source(s): my brain. ((No Name)) · 7 years ago. It transfers food from your mouth to your stomach it takes 8 seconds to enter your stomach, pushing it down your gullet
The esophagus (American English) or oesophagus (British English), commonly known as the foodpipe or gullet, is an organ in vertebrates which consists of a fibromuscular tube through which food passes, aided by peristaltic contractions, from the pharynx to the stomach. The esophagus is innervated by the vagus nerve and the cervical and thoracic sympathetic trunk. The vagus nerve has a parasympathetic function, supplying the muscles of the esophagus and stimulating glandular contraction. Two sets of nerve fibres travel in the vagus nerve to supply the muscles.
Normal Function. The esophagus seems to have only one important function in the body-to carry food, liquids, and saliva from the mouth to the stomach. The stomach then acts as a container to start digestion and pump food and liquids into the intestines in a controlled process. 
The digestive system processes, breaks down, and absorbs the nutrients from food. Digesting food is to break down the complex molecules of the food to simpler ones so the bo … dy can use it in the way it wants to. The function of each organ in the digestive system is to help convert food into simpler molecules so it can absorbed by your body and can then be used by the cells.
The main function of the digestive system is to get the food and water you drink through your body. 21 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. Digesting food is to break down the complex molecules of the food to simpler ones so the bo … dy can use it in the way it wants to. The function of each organ in the digestive system is to help convert food into simpler molecules so it can absorbed by your body and can then be used by the cells.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. “Gullet” is another word for the part of the vertebrate digestive system known as the esophagus, the muscular passage that food and liquids travel along from the mouth to the stomach. The word gullet tends to be most often used in reference to animals rather than humans, though it is still used to describe the human throat or esophagus. Gullet comes from the Latin word gula, which means throat..
It is absorbed into the blood through blood vessels. It is absorbed into the blood through the walls of the lungs. It passes from the small intestine into the large intestine, then into the blood. The digestive system processes food into usable and unusable materials. The usable materials are sent to the body's cells as food. 
Best Answer: Cilia-help paramecium move and sweep food into the oral groove Oral Groove-collects food until it is sweeped into the cell mouth Contractile Vacuole-contracts and forces extra water out of the cell Trichocyst-used for defense Gullet-forms food vacuoles. Source(s): http://www.geocities.com/garrah18/parame... 