In relation to companies and similar entities which are incorporated in offshore jurisdictions, the use of both the words offshore and company can be varied in application. The extent to which a jurisdiction is regarded as offshore is often a question of perception and degree. Detailed information in relation to the use of offshore companies is notoriously difficult to come by because of the opaque nature of much of the business (and because, in many cases, the companies are used specifically to preserve the confidentiality of a transaction or individual).
Offshore Company Legal Form. The first two questions go closely together. Companies formed in the most popular offshore jurisdictions, in particular Belize, Seychelles, BVI, and Anguilla, are IBCs, which is short for International Business Company. They are called BCs in BVI, but there is virtually no difference between an IBC and an BC. It is the most common legal form for offshore companies. IBC can often use a wide range of suffixes: Ltd, Limited, Inc, Incorporated, Corp., Corporation, S.A., et cetera. Not all jurisdictions allow this. The Seychelles is among the most lenient.
DEFINITION of 'Offshore'. 1. Located or based outside of one's national boundaries. The term offshore is used to describe foreign banks, corporations, investments and deposits. A company may legitimately move offshore for the purpose of tax avoidance or to enjoy relaxed regulations. Offshore financial institutions can also be used for illicit purposes such as money laundering and tax evasion. 2. Many countries, territories and jurisdictions have offshore financial centers (OFCs). These include well-known centers like Switzerland, Bermuda and the Cayman Islands, and less-well-known centers like Mauritius, Dublin and Belize.
An offshore company may be a reference to: 1  a corporation or (sometimes) other type of legal entity which is incorporated or registered in an offshore financial centre or  tax haven ; or. 2  a company or corporate group (or sometimes a division thereof) which engages in offshoring manufacturing or business services. Detailed information in relation to the use of offshore companies is notoriously difficult to come by because of the opaque nature of much of the business (and because, in many cases, the companies are used specifically to preserve the confidentiality of a transaction or individual).
As terms the words 'offshore business' and 'offshore company' have no precise legal, tax or general business meaning, as the word 'offshore' often means nothing more than anywhere other than the place of physical location of the person using the word (i.e. overseas). Very low or zero tax offshore companies refer to, for example, the differing types of offshore companies that can be formed in offshore company formation centres such as the BVI or British Virgin Islands, Belize or the Seychelles or Brunei.
The most popular include New Zealand or Panama Financial Services Companies, but also include options such as Offshore Brokerage Licences in Belize and other jurisdictions, Private Hedge Funds in places such as St. Lucia, BVI etc. as well as Swiss Trust Companies. Learn more. 
Companies incorporated in jurisdictions which offer both offshore companies and onshore companies and which may benefit from favourable tax regulation and / or special offshore company regimes. For example: Mauritius has two types of companies that are used for offshore business and international tax planning. Very low or zero tax offshore companies refer to, for example, the differing types of offshore companies that can be formed in offshore company formation centres such as the BVI or British Virgin Islands, Belize or the Seychelles or Brunei.
Welcome…. Welcome to Offshore legal and thank you for taking the time to learn more about the services we provide. Offshore Legal is a specialized recruitment consultancy in that we focus entirely on the placement of legal professionals to law firms and other financial institutions right throughout the offshore world. Clients trust Offshore Legal to source and screen the best available talent. Candidates trust Offshore Legal’s in-depth market knowledge and the invaluable insight and advice we provide. Candidates and clients trust Offshore Legal to provide them with a highly professional service which yields results.
Panama Offshore Legal Services. Panama Offshore Legal Services is a licensed Panama law firm specializing in all Panama offshore services, including the formation of Panama corporations and Panama foundations. Our Offshore corporations and foundation packages are the most complete in the industry. We also make introductions to Panama brokerage firms for offshore brokerage accounts & merchant accounts, in addition to Panama mail forwarding, drafting contracts, offshore asset protection and estate planning, and offshore legal consulting.
The term offshore company or offshore corporation is used in at least two distinct and different ways. Detailed information in relation to the use of offshore companies is notoriously difficult to come by because of the opaque nature of much of the business (and because, in many cases, the companies are used specifically to preserve the confidentiality of a transaction or individual).