Visualize the Effects of Lupus on the Body. Lupus, also known as systemic lupus erythematosus, is an autoimmune disease that can affect almost any part of the body, especially the skin, blood, joints, kidneys, heart, lungs, and brain. Two common symptoms of lupus are a butterfly-shaped rash on the face and extreme sensitivity to sunlight. Read More. 
In autoimmune disorders, the body mistakenly reacts against a person's own tissues as if they were foreign and were causing an infection. In autoimmune disorders that involve the lungs, the immune system attacks and damages lung tissue. Commonly, people cough up blood (hemoptysis) and have trouble breathing. Often, the kidneys are affected too. Some disorders of the lungs are specific diseases (for example, asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), but many autoimmune disorders are syndromes. Syndromes of lung autoimmune disorders can overlap. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage involves bleeding into the lungs.
While some autoimmune diseases attack a specific part of the body, many autoimmune diseases can attack several organs in the body. The lungs are one of the most commonly affected organs. While localized scleroderma affects the skin, systemic scleroderma can attack the internal organs such as the lungs, kidneys, heart and digestive tract. Scleroderma symptoms vary based on where the disease originates but can include gastroesophageal reflux disease which, over time can damage the esophagus.
Some autoimmune disorders affect certain types of tissue throughout the body—for example, blood vessels, cartilage, or skin. Other autoimmune disorders affect a particular organ. Virtually any organ, including the kidneys, lungs, heart, and brain, can be affected. 
Sarcoidosis. Sarcoidosis is an autoimmune disease in which tiny clumps of inflammatory cells develop in different areas of the body. Sarcoidosis most commonly affects the lungs, lymph nodes, eyes and skin. Symptoms vary depending on which organ is affected and how far the disease has progressed. While localized scleroderma affects the skin, systemic scleroderma can attack the internal organs such as the lungs, kidneys, heart and digestive tract. Scleroderma symptoms vary based on where the disease originates but can include gastroesophageal reflux disease which, over time can damage the esophagus.
1 Some autoimmune diseases, like diabetes and thyroid disease, can affect the body's ability to make substances it needs to function. 2  With diabetes, insulin injections are needed to regulate blood sugar. 3  Thyroid hormone replacement restores thyroid hormone levels in people with underactive thyroid. 
1 Scleroderma – this type of autoimmune disorder commonly affects the connective tissues of skin and blood vessels, muscles, and internal organs. 2  The disease usually affects women more commonly between ages 30 and 50 years. 3  Dermatomyositis – this condition results in inflammation of muscles and a skin rash. 
1 Systemic scleroderma, which is the most serious form of the disease, affects the skin, muscles, joints, blood vessels, lungs, kidneys, heart and other organs. The two main types of scleroderma are: 1  Localized scleroderma, which usually affects only the skin, although it can spread to the muscles, joints and bones. 2 
Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling. For example, SLE can affect the skin, joints, kidneys, heart, nerves, blood vessels, and more. Type 1 diabetes can affect your glands, eyes, kidneys, muscles, and more. No one is sure what causes autoimmune diseases. In most cases, a combination of factors is probably at work.
Autoimmune disorders can affect virtually every part of the body, and blood and blood vessels are no exception. “These are relatively uncommon disorders,” says Alex Limanni, MD, a rheumatologist with Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas. 