1 In another shallow bowl, whisk milk and egg. 2  Coat chicken in flour, then dip in egg mixture. 3  Place in bag; seal and shake to coat. 4  In a large skillet, cook chicken in oil over medium heat for 2-3 minutes on each side or until chicken is no longer pink.
1 Repeat until all strips are coated. 2  Add the oil to a large skillet (12 inches in diameter and cast iron is best) over medium heat until hot. 3  Lay several chicken strips in the pan. 4  Cook the chicken without turning until nicely browned, about 3-4 minutes.
1 Place flour in a shallow bowl. 2  In another shallow bowl, whisk milk and egg. 3  Coat chicken in flour, then dip in egg mixture. 4  Place in bag; seal and shake to coat. 5  In a large skillet, cook chicken in oil over medium heat for 2-3 minutes on each side or until chicken is no longer pink. 6  Drain on paper towels.
Finally, lay the strips in the bread crumbs, turn it over and press it into the breading to evenly coat. Lay on a piece of waxedpaper. Heat 1/4-inch of oil in a large skillet over medium heat until hot and shimmering. Lay 2 or 3 chicken strips at a time in the pan. Cook the chicken without turning until golden brown, about 2 minutes. Turn the chicken and cook until equally brown on the other side and the chicken is cooked through, about 2 to 3 minutes more. Repeat with the remaining 2 breasts.
1 In another shallow bowl, beat egg and milk. 2  Dip chicken into egg mixture, then cracker mixture. 3  In an electric skillet or deep-fat fryer, heat oil to 375°. 4  Fry chicken, a few strips at a time, for 2-3 minutes on each side or until golden brown.
1 Coat chicken in flour, then dip in egg mixture. 2  Place in bag; seal and shake to coat. 3  In a large skillet, cook chicken in oil over medium heat for 2-3 minutes on each side or until chicken is no longer pink. 4  Drain on paper towels.
Combine panko and cheese in another shallow bowl. Dip chicken in egg; dredge in breadcrumb mixture. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add half of chicken; cook 3 to 4 minutes on each side or until browned and done. Remove from pan. Repeat procedure with remaining oil and chicken.