Here are the top five differences between the two types of memory: RAM is Random Access Memory. ROM is Read Only Memory. RAM is the memory available for the operating system, programs and processes to use when the computer is running. ROM is the memory that comes with your computer that is pre-written to hold the instructions for booting-up the computer.
RAM vs ROM. RAM and ROM are both different types of memories used in any computer to make it fast and to enable it to access information stored in the computer. Every computer comes with a certain amount of physical memory which is actually chips that hold data. This memory is referred to as Random Access Memory or RAM. There are glaring differences between the RAM and the ROM. Difference Between RAM and ROM. • RAM is Random Access Memory, while ROM stands for Read Only Memory. • RAM is volatile and is erased when the computer is switched off. ROM is non-volatile and generally cannot be written to.
ROM and RAM. Main store (or computer memory [memory: used to store data ]) is divided into Read Only Memory (ROM) and Random Access Memory (RAM). 
Confidence votes 19. Random Access Memory is a form of memory that can be read without having to begin at the first address, then the second address, then the third, and so on. This is a carryover from when most memory was Serial Access, such as magnetic tape, paper tape, or punched cards. 
Both the read and write operations can be performed over the information that is stored in the RAM. The ROM memory only allows the user to read the information. User cannot make any changes to the information. Storage. RAM memory is only used to store the temporary information. Major difference is that electricity is needed to use RAM but this is not true in ROM. There are many difference between RAM and ROM. RAM is used to store only temporary data but ROM is used to store permanent data. Speed of RAM is high because there is very less amount of data stored in it but accessible speed of ROM is slow in compare to RAM
Read Only memory. Accessibility. In reference with the processor, the information stored in the RAM is easily accessed. The processor cannot directly access the information that is stored in the ROM. Major difference is that electricity is needed to use RAM but this is not true in ROM. There are many difference between RAM and ROM. RAM is used to store only temporary data but ROM is used to store permanent data. Speed of RAM is high because there is very less amount of data stored in it but accessible speed of ROM is slow in compare to RA
There is one major difference between a ROM and a RAM chip. A ROM chip is non-volatile storage and does not require a constant source of power to retain information stored on it. When power is lost or turned off, a ROM chip will keep the information stored on it. 
Differences Between RAM and ROM. RAM (random access memory) and ROM (read only memory) are two different types of memory that are used in computers. A buyer should learn about the differences between the RAM and ROM in computers and other devices. RAM is volatile memory, which means that the data can be deleted. 