You can encourage your baby to walk by standing or kneeling in front of him and holding out your hands. Or you might hold both his hands and walk him toward you. He'll probably also enjoy a toddle truck or push toy that he can hold on to as he walks. 
From 4 -15 months your baby goes from learning how to sit up to walking around the house on his own. During this exciting time you can help Baby gain his confidence to take those first steps through simple games and words of praise. Stage 6: Standing Without Help. Balance is a key part of walking. If Baby can stand and balance for a few seconds she will soon feel like she can try to take a step. Age: 9-12 months. What you can do: Turn balancing into a game. Sit with Baby on the floor and help her stand up.
How to Encourage Babies to Walk. U sually, a baby can start to walk on his own between the ages of 12 to 15 months. However, some babies start to walk as early as 9 months, whereas others start to walk after the age of 1 and a half years. Learn to Assist Your Baby’s Walking. It is important that you know how to assist your child when he starts to walk. Initially, you must support your child above the ribs. When he has become stable, you should support the baby around the hips to ensure his core muscles remain strong and stable.
Most babies take their first steps sometime between 9 and 12 months and are walking well by the time they're 14 or 15 months old. Don't worry if your child takes a little longer, though. Some perfectly normal children don't walk until they're 16 or 17 months old. Show him how to bend his knees so he can sit down without toppling over, and let him give it a try himself. You can encourage your baby to walk by standing or kneeling in front of him and holding out your hands. Or you might hold both his hands and let him walk toward you. He'll probably also enjoy a toddle truck or push toy that he can hold on to as he walks
At 13 months, your baby may be walking on his own, but probably a bit unsteadily. If your baby still hasn't stopped cruising, it just means walking on his own is going to take a little longer. Some children don't walk until they are 17 months or 18 months old. As your baby learns to stand, he may need some help working out how to get back down again. As your baby learns to walk it's a good idea to keep his feet as free as possible. Let him toddle barefoot if you can. Going barefoot helps him to improve his balance and coordination. If cramped by tight shoes or socks, your baby's feet can't straighten out and grow properly.
As he starts to pull himself up and gain balance holding your hands, help him take a few steps. This will help him with the next phase of walking and help him gain confidence to take those first steps. Age: 8-9 months. What you can do: Practice, practice, practice -- this is key for Baby when he is at this stage. Stage 6: Standing Without Help. Balance is a key part of walking. If Baby can stand and balance for a few seconds she will soon feel like she can try to take a step. Age: 9-12 months. What you can do: Turn balancing into a game. Sit with Baby on the floor and help her stand up.
Learning to walk is one of the most important achievements in your baby's life, as it's a big step towards independence. Over the course of your baby's first year, he will gradually gain coordination and muscle strength, and learn to sit, roll over, and crawl. Your baby will then probably move on to pulling himself up. As your baby learns to walk it's a good idea to keep his feet as free as possible. Let him toddle barefoot if you can. Going barefoot helps him to improve his balance and coordination. If cramped by tight shoes or socks, your baby's feet can't straighten out and grow properly.
Going barefoot helps improve balance and coordination. What to do if your baby doesn’t walk. Don't fret if your child is simply taking her time. But if your child doesn't stand with support at 12 months, can't walk at 18 months, or isn't able to walk steadily at the age of 2 years, bring it up with her doctor. Show him how to bend his knees so he can sit down without toppling over, and let him give it a try himself. You can encourage your baby to walk by standing or kneeling in front of him and holding out your hands. Or you might hold both his hands and let him walk toward you. He'll probably also enjoy a toddle truck or push toy that he can hold on to as he walks