Make Google your default search engine. Search right from the address bar, wherever you go on the web. Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Google. 5  Click Set as default and click Close.
Make Google your default search engine. Search right from the address bar, wherever you go on the web. Google Search is installed but not set as your default search provider. To default to Google, here’s how you do it: 1  Click the Tools icon at the far right of the browser window. 2  Select Internet options. 3  In the General tab, find the Search section and click Settings. 4  Select Google
1 In the top right corner of the page, click the gear icon. 2  Click Manage add-ons. 3  On the left side of the page, click Search Providers. 4  In the bottom left corner, click Find more providers. 5  Select Google. 6  Click Add to Internet Explorer. 7  Check the box next to Make this my default search provider.. 8  Click Add. 1 Click Add. 2  Open Firefox. 3  In the small search bar in the top right of your browser, click the magnifying glass. 4  Click Change Search Settings. 5  Under Default Search Engine, select Google. 6  Open Safari. 7  In the upper left corner of the search ba
How to change the default search engine in Internet Explorer 8. Find the search box in the top right corner side of your browser. Hit the tiny down arrow next to the magnifying glass icon. Choose 'Find More Providers' and select 'Google'. Find and select Google-it should be near the top as the most popular choice. Then click the 'Add to Internet Explorer' button. Now an 'Add Search Provider' box will appear. You'll find a 'Make this my default search provider' checkbox-stick a tick in it, and then click 'Add'.
1 Open Internet Explorer. 2  In the top right corner of the page, click the gear icon. 3  Click Manage add-ons. 4  On the left side of the page, click Search Providers. 5  In the bottom left corner, click Find more providers. 6  Select Google. 7  Click Add to Internet Explorer. 1 Click Add. 2  Open Firefox. 3  In the small search bar in the top right of your browser, click the magnifying glass. 4  Click Change Search Settings. 5  Under Default Search Engine, select Google. 6  Open Safari. 7  In the upper left corner of the search ba
How to change search engine on internet explorer: step five. Your chosen search engine should have been added to the list in the Manage Add-ons window. Click to highlight it and then click on the ‘Set as default’ button in the bottom-right hand corner of the screen. Type a query into Explorer, IOS 7 or Firefox’s URL search bar and you’ll be taken to Bing’s unfamiliar grey and yellow search page. Chances are you’ll then head back to the search bar and type in Google’s URL with a small cloud of frustration hanging over your head.
2. Select Manage add-ons. 3. Choose Search Providers in the left pane of the box that appears. In the Manage Add-ons menu in Internet Explorer, select the Search Providers add-on type. 4. Click the name of the search provider you’d like to make the default, and then click the Set as default button in the bottom right. Within the Manage Add-ons window, you can also remove and reorganize your search providers. 1. Click the icon of your current default search engine on the left side of the search toolbar. Click the icon of your desired search engine on the left side of the browser toolbar. 2. Select a search provider from the drop-down list.
How to change the default search engine in Internet Explorer 9. Click the 'Tools' icon in the top righthand corner of the browser window. Next select 'Internet options'. Open up the 'General' tab, find the 'Search' section and click 'Settings'. Choose Google from the list, hit 'Set as default' and click 'Close'. Find and select Google-it should be near the top as the most popular choice. Then click the 'Add to Internet Explorer' button. Now an 'Add Search Provider' box will appear. You'll find a 'Make this my default search provider' checkbox-stick a tick in it, and then click 'Add'.
Internet Explorer 10. 1  Open Internet Explorer. 2  In the top right corner of the page, click the gear icon. 3  Click Manage add-ons. 4  On the left side of the page, click Search Providers. 5  In the bottom left corner, click Find more providers. 6  Select Google. 7  Click Add to Internet Explorer. 1 Click Add. 2  Open Firefox. 3  In the small search bar in the top right of your browser, click the magnifying glass. 4  Click Change Search Settings. 5  Under Default Search Engine, select Google. 6  Open Safari. 7  In the upper left corner of the search ba
1 Click Manage add-ons. 2  On the left side of the page, click Search Providers. 3  In the bottom left corner, click Find more providers. 4  Select Google. 5  Click Add to Internet Explorer. 6  Check the box next to Make this my default search provider.. 7  Click Add. 1 Click Add. 2  Open Firefox. 3  In the small search bar in the top right of your browser, click the magnifying glass. 4  Click Change Search Settings. 5  Under Default Search Engine, select Google. 6  Open Safari. 7  In the upper left corner of the search ba