It consists of 50 multiple choice questions to be answered in 12 minutes. The test was developed by Eldon F. Wonderlic. The score is calculated as the number of correct answers given in the allotted time. A score of 20 is intended to indicate average intelligence (corresponding to an intelligence quotient of 100). Wonderlic, Inc. claims a score of at least 10 points suggests a person is literate.
However, according to Wonderlic Inc. the average score for the test is 20 out of a possible 50. A person who scores an average of 10 and above is considered literate and, therefore, suitable for the less demanding professions. This would seem to slightly contradict Wonderlic’s assertion that the average score is a 20 (here it appears to be between 21 and 22). However, this should at least provide a general sense of where a score falls against the general population.
Your Wonderlic test scores tell you if you have what it takes to apply for your dream job. It is also known as the Wonderlic intelligence test and is used by employers as part of their pre screening process for job applicants. You have 12 minutes to complete 50 questions under supervision.
Wonderlic Scores and Results Policy. The test scores are calculated as a number of correct answers given in allotted time. In case of WPT, the highest possible score is 50, and the period of time to answer these questions is 12 minutes. The results of the test are then compared to industry average. 
Average score for the Wonderlic test. The average test scores can significantly vary between different professions. The average rating for a certain test depends on the job description the position holds. For instance, an average score for a chemist is set at 31 while that of a cashier is set at 21. This would seem to slightly contradict Wonderlic’s assertion that the average score is a 20 (here it appears to be between 21 and 22). However, this should at least provide a general sense of where a score falls against the general population.
Information. This is a 50-question sample Wonderlic® Quiz which provides questions similar to that of the real test. You will have 12 minutes (720 seconds) to answer 50 questions. You score 1 point for each correct answer. Your time will start as soon as the next page loads. Good luck!
Your Wonderlic test scores are similar to an IQ test where there is a minimum and a maximum. For instance, the most you score on a Wonderlic test is 50 so if your score is 24 you are considered average and a score of 10 mean you may be mentally retarded. The Wonderlic test has 50 questions that get harder as you progress through them. It is also known as the Wonderlic intelligence test and is used by employers as part of their pre screening process for job applicants. You have 12 minutes to complete 50 questions under supervision.
Like an IQ test, the Wonderlic test scores are based on a minimum, maximum, and average range. For instance, if you score a 24 on a Wonderlic test, you are considered to be of average intelligence. The maximum anyone can score on a Wonderlic test is 50, and a score of 10 generally means that a person is barely literate. 
The Wonderlic Test is a 12-minute, 50-question exam that is designed to measure learning and problem-solving abilities. The test is given to almost every draft-eligible player, and it has been administered by the NFL for more than 30 years. Wonderlic, Inc. claims that a score of at least 10 points suggests a person is literate, and the average football player scores around 20 points. This test is irrelevant in the eyes of many, but here are the five best and five worst scores on the NFL’s heavily controversial Wonderlic Test. « Prev