From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Laryngeal cancer, also known as cancer of the larynx or laryngeal carcinoma, are mostly squamous cell carcinomas, reflecting their origin from the skin of the larynx. Cancer can develop in any part of the larynx, but the cure rate is affected by the location of the tumour.
Stage I laryngeal cancer depends on where cancer began in the larynx 1  : Supraglottis: Cancer is in one area of the supraglottis only and the vocal cords can move normally. 2  Glottis: Cancer is in one or both vocal cords and the vocal cords can move normally. 3  Subglottis: Cancer is in the subglottis only. Treatment of stage III laryngeal cancer depends on where cancer is found in the larynx. If cancer is in the supraglottis or glottis, treatment may include the following: 1  Chemotherapy and radiation therapy given together. 2  Chemotherapy followed by c
Laryngeal cancer is a malignant tumour that starts in the cells of the larynx, or voice box. Malignant means that it can spread, or metastasize, to other parts of the body. The larynx is part of the respiratory system. It is the tube that connects the throat to the trachea, or windpipe. These cells cover the inside of the larynx. This type of cancer is called squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. Laryngeal cancer can develop anywhere in the larynx. It often starts in the middle of the larynx, close to the vocal cords.
Laryngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the larynx. The larynx is a part of the throat, between the base of the tongue and the trachea. The larynx contains the vocal cords, which vibrate and make sound when air is directed against them. Treatment of stage III laryngeal cancer depends on where cancer is found in the larynx. If cancer is in the supraglottis or glottis, treatment may include the following: 1  Chemotherapy and radiation therapy given together. 2  Chemotherapy followed by c
Laryngeal cancer occurs when cancerous (malignant) cells form on the tissues of the larynx, or voice box. The larynx contains the vocal folds. The vocal folds vibrate. This makes sound when air is directed against them. A laryngectomy is the removal of the voice box (larynx) from the neck, usually because of cancer. During this operation, a new route for breathing is surgically created. The end of the windpipe (trachea) is connected to a hole (stoma) made in the neck.
Laryngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the larynx. The larynx is a part of the throat, between the base of the tongue and the trachea. The larynx contains the vocal cords, which vibrate and make sound when air is directed against them. The sound echoes through the pharynx, mouth, and nose to make a person's voice.
Larynx or laryngeal cancer (cancer of the voice box). All about cancer of the larynx (voice box), including symptoms and causes, tests to diagnose laryngeal cancer, and treatment including surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, biological therapy (cetuximab) and current research.
Laryngeal cancer is a malignant tumour that starts in the cells of the larynx, or voice box. Malignant means that it can spread, or metastasize, to other parts of the body. The larynx is part of the respiratory system. It is the tube that connects the throat to the trachea, or windpipe. These cells cover the inside of the larynx. This type of cancer is called squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. Laryngeal cancer can develop anywhere in the larynx. It often starts in the middle of the larynx, close to the vocal cords.
Changes to cells of the larynx can also cause precancerous conditions. This means that the cells are not yet cancer but there is a higher chance these abnormal changes will become cancer. The most common precancerous condition of the larynx is dysplasia. In some cases, changes to laryngeal cells can cause cancer. These cells cover the inside of the larynx. This type of cancer is called squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. Laryngeal cancer can develop anywhere in the larynx. It often starts in the middle of the larynx, close to the vocal cords.