Save. Ralph Kiesewetter. The instruments used in salsa music vary depending upon the specific genre and the geographic influence, but the basic salsa setup demands a brass section, piano and a rhythm section. From these elements musicians create a singular sound representing a fusion of African and Spanish traditions. Features. One sees the strongest elements of salsa music's African influence in the types of drums musicians play. The conga provides the driving rhythm of the music and comes in four different sizes: tumba, conga, quinto and requinto. The bongo highlights specific elements of the rhythm.
Salsa music is Cuban, Puerto Rican and Dominican Republicn popular dance music. The term salsa was initially promoted and marketed in New York City during the 1970s. Salsa comprises various musical genres including the Cuban son montuno, guaracha, chachacha, chachachá, mambo and to a certain extent. bolero Salsa is primarily Cuban son, itself a fusion of Spanish cancion canción and guitar And-Afro cuban, percussion merged With North american music styles such as. Jazz salsa also occasionally incorporates elements of, Rock&R, b and. funk
Merengue is a type of music and dance originating in the Dominican Republic which has become one of the most popular genres throughout Latin America and major cities in the United States. The etymology of its name is much disputed. 
Not necessarily all these instruments will be used in salsa music and even when they are, the rhythm that each instrument plays can vary throughout the music-some coming in during the chorus and others in the verse. Sometimes an instrument will play a variation on the basic rhythm presented here. 
Types. A salsa orchestra typically features the same instruments as in a jazz band: baritone, tenor and alto saxophones; a trumpet section; a trombone section; piano; an electric or upright bass; and the percussion section, which may feature conga drums, bongos, claves, cowbells, cascaras, cymbals and timbales. Features. One sees the strongest elements of salsa music's African influence in the types of drums musicians play. The conga provides the driving rhythm of the music and comes in four different sizes: tumba, conga, quinto and requinto. The bongo highlights specific elements of the rhythm.
Following on from Cat's thread on Lack of Salsa Music Knowledge I thought it might be interesting to try and devise a definitive list of the instruments used in salsa/mambo, but first, some information I found in previous posts here. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Etph0neh0me. Confidence votes 500. A variety of instruments are used in salsa music: guitars, trumpets, maracas, bongos, conga drums, saxophones, bass guitars, claves, cowbells, guiros, timbales, etc. There are a number or percussion and stringed instruments used in  salsa music. The man instruments are the snare drum, maracas,  guitars and congas. Edit. Share to: Answered.
The Botijuela ~ A bottle used to store oil that was used as a bass in original Son bands. The Claves ~ They keep the rhythm in the music and guide the dancers feet. The Conga Drum ~ A skined.drum played with the palms. The Cowbell ~ Played by holding in one hand and striking with a stick. The Guiro ~ A carved gourd played by scraping it with a stick.
The term stuck. Salsa Music: Salsa has its origins in the Cuban son. With heavy use of percussion (clave, maracas, conga, bongo, tambora, bato, cowbell – to name a few), the instruments and the singers often mimic the call and response patterns of traditional African songs, and then segue into the chorus. Salsa has a basic 1-2-3, 1-2 rhythm; however, to say that salsa is just one rhythm, or one set of instruments is deceiving. It is more a way of marketing the Latin sound to an urban audience in order to get them onto the dance floor and into the clubs.