Amsterdam Facts. 1  Amsterdam is the largest city in the Netherlands. 2  Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands (while The Hague is the seat of government). 3  Amsterdam is the financial and cultural capital of the Netherlands. 4  Amsterdam ranks 13th on Mercer’s Best Cities in the World list [1]. The Netherlands is bordered by Belgium in the South, Germany in the East and the Northsea in the North and West. Amsterdam is located in the South of the province of North Holland:
Where is Amsterdam located on the world map, you might be wondering? Amsterdam is the capital city of the Netherlands, and this country is located in North-West Europe between Germany in the east, Belgium in the south, and the North Sea in the north and west. Amsterdam is located in the province of North-Holland. The provincial capital of North-Holland is not Amsterdam, though, but Haarlem.
Amsterdam is one of the greatest small cities in the world. From Amsterdam canals to world-famous Amsterdam museums and historical Amsterdam sights, it is one of the most romantic and beautiful cities in Europe. 
1 Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands (while The Hague is the seat of government). 2  Amsterdam is the financial and cultural capital of the Netherlands. 3  Amsterdam ranks 13th on Mercer’s Best Cities in the World list [1]. 4  Amsterdam ranks 3rd in innovation on 2thinknow’s Innovation Cities™ Top 100 Index [2]. The Netherlands is bordered by Belgium in the South, Germany in the East and the Northsea in the North and West. Amsterdam is located in the South of the province of North Holland:
Answer: The answer is both. The official name of the country in which Amsterdam is located is the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Within the Netherlands there are 12 administrative provinces, two of which contain the name Holland. Amsterdam lies in Noord-Holland, or North Holland. 
1 Amsterdam is the largest city in the Netherlands. 2  Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands (while The Hague is the seat of government). 3  Amsterdam is the financial and cultural capital of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is bordered by Belgium in the South, Germany in the East and the Northsea in the North and West. Amsterdam is located in the South of the province of North Holland:
Well, Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands, a country in North-Western Europe. The Netherlands is better known as ‘Holland.’ But Holland is actually the name of a region which today consists of the country’s two Western-most provinces. The Netherlands is bordered by Belgium in the South, Germany in the East and the Northsea in the North and West. Amsterdam is located in the South of the province of North Holland:
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands. With more than one million inhabitants in its urban area, it is the country's largest city and its financial, cultural, and creative centre. Amsterdam derives its name from the city’s origin as “Dam” of river “Amstel”. 
For the adjacent town, see Amsterdam (town), New York. Amsterdam is a city located in Montgomery County, New York, United States. As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 18,620. The name is derived from the city of Amsterdam in the Netherlands. The city of Amsterdam is surrounded on the north, east, and west sides by the town of Amsterdam. The city developed on both sides of the Mohawk River, with the majority located on the north bank.
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands and of Noord Holland (a province in the Netherlands). The Netherlands is often mistakenly called Holland, as Holland is in fact ju … st a region of the Netherlands. Amsterdam is in that part of the Netherlands. -Haarlem is the capital of the province of Noord-Holland. 1 person found this useful. 1  Europe on a Budget: 21 Free Walking Tours in Europe Walking tours can be a great way to get to know a new city.