Now, where was I? … Ah, right. Though the wad of quasi peanut butter was harmless, Ed, being a horse (of course), naturally wanted to get rid of it, which he did by working his lips. When this was synched up with a voice-over by the inimitable Allan Rocky Lane, Ed looked like he was talking. I've just noticed a dumb new commercial with one redeeming feature: it heralds the return of Mr. Ed, the most debonair actor on four legs. Since I was a child, I've always wondered how they got that horse to talk..
Mr. Ed's voice was the voice of Rocky Lane. Rocky Lane was a real cowboy! He also played cowboys in Western films, such as King of the Mounties, Red Gulch Renegades, and the Silver City Kid. Lane generally performed with his own horse, Black Jack. It never ranked in the Top 25 shows, but it was well-loved by its fans. Mr. Ed wasn't a rescue horse, saving lost little children like Lassie. He didn't splash his best friend with a flap of his tail like Flipper. Mr. Ed was an eight year old Palomino horse who spent his time in a horse stall, complaining to his owner.
Who played the voice of 'Mister Ed' the talking horse on TV? Who played the voice of 'Mister Ed' the talking horse on TV? 
Mr. Ed became my favorite show. Wilbur had to keep the secret that Mr. Ed the horse could talk. Mr. Ed only spoke to his owner Wilbur Post (played by Alan Young) who worked as an architect out of his office in the barn at 17230 Valley Spring Lane. Mr. Ed did talk to children on several episodes. The horse which died in Oklahoma in 1979 who everyone thought was Mr. Ed, was a horse who once posed as Mr. Ed for publicity photos used by the production company. There has been a long lasting secret to when & where the real Mr. Ed died.
Another record was made Mister Ed the talking horse 33 1/3 rpm It has Ed the songwriter and Mr. Ed's Blues Original TV sound tracks by Colpix records. An Album Straight from the Horses Mouth 33 1/3 rpm was made in 1962 Mr. Ed sings songs and tells jokes. Kenner Give a show projector for children made a 7 slide feature of Mister Ed the TV talking horse in No Pool Like a New Pool- dated 1964 - The story line is-Mister Ed tricks Wilbur into letting him swim in his new pool.
The show's title character is a talking horse, originally appearing in short stories by Walter R. Brooks. Mister Ed is one of the few series to debut in syndication and be picked up by a major network for prime time. 1 The Beastie Boys use a sample of Mister Ed's voice in their song Time To Get Ill from the 1987 album Licensed to Ill. 2  The song Mr. Klaw by They Might Be Giants features lyrics based on those of the show's theme.
The Mister Ed show concept was derived from a series of short stories by children's author Walter R. Brooks, which began with The Talking Horse in the September 18, 1937, issue of Liberty magazine. 1 The Beastie Boys use a sample of Mister Ed's voice in their song Time To Get Ill from the 1987 album Licensed to Ill. 2  The song Mr. Klaw by They Might Be Giants features lyrics based on those of the show's theme.
The actual concept for Mr. Ed actually came from a series of short stories printed in Liberty Magazine. The series was called The Talking Horse and was written by author Walter R. Brooks. It never ranked in the Top 25 shows, but it was well-loved by its fans. Mr. Ed wasn't a rescue horse, saving lost little children like Lassie. He didn't splash his best friend with a flap of his tail like Flipper. Mr. Ed was an eight year old Palomino horse who spent his time in a horse stall, complaining to his owner.
Allan Rocky Lane 1904-1973 was the talking voice of Mr. Ed This uses the real audio player click the golden yellow disc below to hear the song. A Mr. Ed recording was made in 1962 A song call Pretty Little Filly and the flip side was the Mr. Ed Theme song from the TV series song written by Jay Livingston. Kenner Give a show projector for children made a 7 slide feature of Mister Ed the TV talking horse in No Pool Like a New Pool- dated 1964 - The story line is-Mister Ed tricks Wilbur into letting him swim in his new pool.
About the Television Series Mr. Ed the talking Horse click Mr. Ed for Real Audio music Mr. Ed was a parade and show horse, named Bamboo Harvester. He was foaled in 1949 in El Monte, California. The Mister Ed Company bought him & had been owned by the president of the California Palomino Society. The horse which died in Oklahoma in 1979 who everyone thought was Mr. Ed, was a horse who once posed as Mr. Ed for publicity photos used by the production company. There has been a long lasting secret to when & where the real Mr. Ed died.