Talk about these different topics and relate the different types of plankton, phytoplankton and zooplankton to the class. Talk about how plankton drifts in the open oceans and along coasts. Talk about the sizes of the different plankton. Introduce the role plankton have in the marine food chain. Activity 2, Plankton in the Marine Food Chain : Use below illustration and list as a guide to make cutouts of the many different types of organisms in the marine environment. Use organisms that are easily recognized by the students and that are characteristic of a type of producer or consumer.
1 A. Bacteria: single cells in chains or groups; autotrophic and heterotrophic; aerobic and anaerobic; important as a food source and in decomposition. 2  B. Cyanobacteria: blue-green algae; autotrophic single cells in chains or groups; produce som red blooms in the sea; phytoplankton. 1 I. Kingdom Monera: cells simple and unspecialised; single cells, some in groups or chains. 2 
GENERALIZED PLANKTON CLASSIFICATION PHYTOPLANKTON: I. KINGDOM MONERA: Single celled organisms without membrane-bounded nucleus, some in groups or chains A. Cyanobacteria: Blue-green algae, all autotrophic II. 
Within the plankton, holoplankton spend their entire life cycle as plankton (e.g. most algae, copepods, salps, and some jellyfish). By contrast, meroplankton are only planktic for part of their lives (usually the larval stage), and then graduate to either a nektic or benthic (sea floor) existence. 1 Among the more important groups are the diatoms, cyanobacteria, dinoflagellates and coccolithophores. 2  Zooplankton (from Greek zoon, or animal), small protozoans or metazoans (e.g. crustaceans and other animals) that feed on other plankton and telonemia.
Arthropods of the class Crustacea are the most numerous zooplankton. Some, like the copepods spend their entire lives as plankton (holoplankton) (MARE, 1995). Copepods graze on phytoplankton, and, as the most numerous animals on earth, are critically important to the ocean ecosystem (MARE, 1995). Students will learn that plankton have a variety of unique adaptations which help them avoid sinking below the photic zone. Students will construct plankton models from materials of various shapes and densities to simulate adaptations that slow sinking.
They eat each other, phytoplankton, and decaying matter. Plankton consists of any drifting organism, such as animals, plants or bacteria. They inhabit the pelagic zone of oceans, seas, or any other bodies of fresh water. See related link below.. These are microscopic organisms, similar to phytoplankton, who consume other plankton and digest waste. Some look like microscopic shrimp and others may look like tiny floating insects, depending on the type
These organisms include drifting animals, protists, archaea, algae, or bacteria that inhabit the pelagic zone of oceans, seas, or bodies of fresh water; that is, plankton are defined by their ecological niche rather than phylogenetic or taxonomic classification. 1 Among the more important groups are the diatoms, cyanobacteria, dinoflagellates and coccolithophores. 2  Zooplankton (from Greek zoon, or animal), small protozoans or metazoans (e.g. crustaceans and other animals) that feed on other plankton and telonemia.
Plankton are organisms drifting in oceans, seas, and bodies of fresh water. The word zooplankton is derived from the Greek zoon (ζῴον), meaning animal, and planktos (πλαγκτός), meaning wanderer or drifter. Zooplankton feed on bacterioplankton, phytoplankton, other zooplankton (sometimes cannibalistically), detritus (or marine snow) and even nektonic organisms. As a result, zooplankton are primarily found in surface waters where food resources (phytoplankton or other zooplankton) are abundant.
Bioluminescent Noctiluca scintillans (a dinoflagellate). Plankton is composed of the phytoplankton (the plants of the sea) and zooplankton (zoh-plankton) which are typically the tiny animals found near the surface in aquatic environments. Like phytoplankton, zooplankton are usually weak swimmers and usually just drift along with the currents
Background information. Plankton are mostly tiny open-water plants, animals or bacteria. The word plankton is derived from a Greek root meaning wanderer.. These organisms range in size from microscopic bacteria and plants to larger animals, such as jellyfish. Activity 2, Plankton in the Marine Food Chain : Use below illustration and list as a guide to make cutouts of the many different types of organisms in the marine environment. Use organisms that are easily recognized by the students and that are characteristic of a type of producer or consumer.