Vinyl chloride is used to make polyvinyl chloride (PVC). PVC is used to make a variety of plastic products, including pipes, wire and cable coatings, and packaging materials. Vinyl chloride is also known as chloroethene, chloroethylene, and ethylene monochloride. 
Poly(chloroethene) (Polyvinyl chloride). Poly(chloroethene), usually known as polyvinyl chloride or just PVC, is the most versatile plastic and, after poly(ethene), the most widely used. The variety of uses comes from its ability to be formulated with different additives and with different molecular masses, giving plastics that range from rigid to pliable. Chloroethene (vinyl chloride) is also used to produce co-polymers, for example with ethenyl ethanoate (vinyl acetate). The co-polymer can be processed at much lower temperatures than poly(chloroethene) homopolymers of the same relative molecular mass.
PVC Cement Polyvinyl chloride cement is used to solvent-weld PVC pipe and fittings together for numerous applications. The cement acts less like a standard glue than a chemical solvent that “melts” the polyvinyl chloride to join it together. 
Home Polymers. A major thermoplastic material with a very wide variety of applications, the essential materials for polyvinyl chloride are derived from oil and salt. The vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) is formed by combining ethylene (obtained from oil) with Chlorine (produced from the electrolysis of salt water). 
Chlorethylene, Chlorethene, Ethylene monochloride, Monochloroethene, VC. Chemical reference number (CAS): 75-01- 4. Vinyl chloride is a colorless flammable gas that evaporates very quickly. Its used to make polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes, wire coatings, vehicle upholstery, and plastic kitchen ware. Higher than normal levels of vinyl chloride may be present inside new cars as the chemical evaporates from new vinyl products. 
Polyvinyl chloride, more correctly but unusually poly(vinyl chloride), commonly abbreviated PVC, is the third-most widely produced synthetic plastic polymer, after polyethylene and polypropylene. PVC comes in two basic forms: rigid (sometimes abbreviated as RPVC) and flexible. The rigid form of PVC is used in construction for pipe and in profile applications such as doors and windows. It is also used for bottles, other non-food packaging, and cards (such as bank or membership cards).
It has a mild, sweet odor. It is a manufactured substance that does not occur naturally. It can be formed when other substances such as trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, and tetrachloroethylene are broken down. Vinyl chloride is used to make polyvinyl chloride (PVC). PVC is used to make a variety of plastic products, including pipes, wire and cable coatings, and packaging materials. Vinyl chloride is also known as chloroethene, chloroethylene, and ethylene monochloride. 
Uses of poly(chloroethene) (polyvinyl chloride). Poly(chloroethene) is used in building and construction, for example in making window and door profiles and in making pipes (from guttering to sewers, and ducting for cables). Figure 1 Uses of poly(chloroethene). Chloroethene (vinyl chloride) is also used to produce co-polymers, for example with ethenyl ethanoate (vinyl acetate). The co-polymer can be processed at much lower temperatures than poly(chloroethene) homopolymers of the same relative molecular mass.
Polyvinyl Chloride PVC. Further information available at www.pvcexplained.co.uk. Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) is a major plastics material which finds widespread use in building, transport, packaging, electrical/electronic and healthcare applications. 
Polyvinyl chloride, better known as PVC or vinyl, is an inexpensive plastic so versatile it has become completely pervasive in modern society. The list of products made from PVC is exhaustive, ranging from phonograph records to drainage and potable piping, water bottles, cling film, credit cards and toys. 