Knee Flexion. Knee flexion should be measured with the subject supine. This position allows assessment of the joint range of motion without interference from tightness in the rectus femoris muscle. If the examiner wishes to assess length of the rectus femoris, have the patient lie prone (see 2nd illustration).
Normal Motion. Range of motion is typically measured using a tool called a goniometer. Normal ROM at the knee is considered to be 0 degrees of extension (completely straight knee joint) to 135 degrees of flexion (fully bent knee joint). Most functional activities require 0 to 117 degrees of motion at the knee. Walking requires complete knee extension at heel strike and up to 60 degrees of flexion at the initiation of swing phase.
The range of motion (ROM) of a knee is that range (in degrees) from full extension to full flexion. Take a look at the full flexion and extension of these three healthy university students. You can easily see the amount of variation between them. Note that the middle one is a woman, the outer two are men. The significant feature of arthrofibrosis is that the scarring within the knee joint prevents it from achieving a full range of motion. This may affect a patient's ability to perform ordinary daily tasks, such as taking a bath and getting up from a chair.
Abstract. In order for functional and sport specific activities to occur, knee flexion and extension range of motion (ROM) is necessary. Loss of full ROM at the knee joint can be detrimental to the function of the lower extremity and treatment is needed to regain full function of ROM. Due to these complications that can occur following the loss of knee flexion or extension, regaining full functional ROM through treatment is crucial. Research supports the use of sustained force for 10 to 45 minutes at a time to increase knee ROM.
Physical therapy aims to improve joint and muscle function (eg, range of motion, strength) and thus improve the patient’s ability to stand, balance, walk, and climb stairs. For example, physical therapy is usually used to train lower-extremity amputees. 
PROBLEM. Knee flexion and extension range of motion (ROM) is necessary for functional and sport specific activities. Loss of full ROM at the knee joint can have detrimental effects on the function of the entire lower extremity. Due to these complications that can occur following the loss of knee flexion or extension, regaining full functional ROM through treatment is crucial. Research supports the use of sustained force for 10 to 45 minutes at a time to increase knee ROM.
A flexed knee is at about 140 degrees. It is a common misconception that 0-140 degrees is a normal range of motion, but most people have some hyperextension, too, taking their ROM into negative numbers. normal ROM is usually minus 5 to 143 degrees in women normal ROM is usually minus 6 to 140 degrees in men. The significant feature of arthrofibrosis is that the scarring within the knee joint prevents it from achieving a full range of motion. This may affect a patient's ability to perform ordinary daily tasks, such as taking a bath and getting up from a chair.