This is reddish-brown and very bitterly flavored. In my experience, most of the cocoa powder on the market is natural.. The other process is called the Dutch process, because it was invented by a Dutch chocolatier in the 19th century. It involves using an alkali to extract the chocolate. An alkali (also called a base) is the opposite of an acid -- it has a high pH instead of a low one. A very strong alkali with which you may be familiar is lye
The primary alkaloid found in cocoa is theobromine. It is normally about .5 % to 2.7% of all the chocolate, so just a fraction of the big picture surrounding chocolate. The chemical formula for the alkaloid is C 7 H 8 N 4 O 2. Cocoa is found in all types of chocolate, all types of baked goods including cookies, brownies, and etc., hot chocolate, and sometimes used with chicken. Cocoa is mainly used as a sweet, but occasionally people use the cocoa with white meat like chicken and pork.
The lightly alkali processed cocoa powders ranged from 8.76 to 24.65 mg/g total flavanols, the medium alkali treated powders from 3.93 to 14.00 mg/g, and the heavily alkali treated powders from 1.33 to 6.05 mg/g total flavanols. The natural cocoas showed the highest levels of ORAC and TP. Life Extension News TM. Volume 16 No. 1 • January 2013. Effect of Treating Cocoa with Alkali: The Dutching Process. Cocoa is frequently dutched—treated with alkali in a 180 year old process — for several reasons.
Natural cocoa powder is treated with an alkali. The alkali is solely to control the flavor and color of the cocoa, which now is smoother and darker than natural cocoa. In some instances, it does not matter which you use – non-alkalized or alkalized – but more often I specify one or the other. Cocoa powders can also be used in concert with other chocolate ingredients, such as unsweetened chocolate or chocolate ganache, to improve the texture and flavor of the finished product. This result is a cake with a more complex and intense chocolate flavor.
When cocoa powder is the only chocolate used in a cake, it imparts a full, rich chocolate flavor and dark color. Cocoa powders can also be used in concert with other chocolate ingredients, such as unsweetened chocolate or chocolate ganache, to improve the texture and flavor of the finished product. This result is a cake with a more complex and intense chocolate flavor. Many recipes call for sifting the cocoa powder with the flou
Cocoa processed with Alkali. Edit 0 18 …. Cocoa powder is processed when chocolate is made into a liquid and is pressed to remove 3/4's of the cocoa butter it contains. The remaining cocoa solids left from being pressed are processed to make unsweetened cocoa powder. The two types of cocoa powder are natural (not processing) and a Dutch processed version. Dutch-Processed cocoa powder is put in with an alkali to neutralize its acids also known as Alkalized Unsweetened Cocoa Powder. Cocoa is found in all types of chocolate, all types of baked goods including cookies, brownies, and etc., hot chocolate, and sometimes used with chicken. Cocoa is mainly used as a sweet, but occasionally people use the cocoa with white meat like chicken and pork.
My wife and I were talking about chocolate and laughingly hoping it was alkaline. When I first started being more aware of what I was eating because my goal was to continue on the path of an alkaline body, I was heartbroken to see chocolate on the no no side of alkaline vs acidic. 
The Broma process is the most commonly used way of producing natural cocoa, but any extraction process that does not use alkali makes natural cocoa. Natural cocoa predates the invention of the Broma process.] Edit: According to Wikipedia, Dutch-processed chocolate has fewer antioxidants, so less of a health benefit. The other process is called the Dutch process, because it was invented by a Dutch chocolatier in the 19th century. It involves using an alkali to extract the chocolate. An alkali (also called a base) is the opposite of an acid -- it has a high pH instead of a low one.
Same for some grain vinegars. I'm not one of them. Secondly, chocolate processed with alkali is called dutch chocolate. The alkali, a base chemical, removes some of the acidity, makes it more water soluble, and gives the chocolate milder properties. I've always preferred it for chocolate milk. 