The manufacturer of First Alert, the leading brand of carbon monoxide detectors, recommends the following if the alarm goes off: 1  Turn off appliances, or other sources of combustion at once. 2  Immediately get fresh air into the premises by opening doors and windows.
Carbon monoxide is an odorless, colorless, and tasteless gas that is near impossible to identify without a proper detector. It is caused by fuels not burning completely, including wood, gasoline, coal, propane, natural gas, gasoline, and heating oil.
Carbon monoxide detectors sound an alarm when they sense a certain amount of carbon monoxide in the air over time. Different types of alarms are triggered by different types of sensors. 1  Biomimetic sensor: A gel changes color when it absorbs carbon monoxide, and this color change triggers the alarm.
Proper placement of a carbon monoxide (CO) detector is important. If you are installing only one carbon monoxide detector, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) recommends it be located near the sleeping area, where it can wake you if you are asleep.
You may be surpr­ised to discover that a carbon monoxide (CO) detector really isn't a complicated piece of equipment. Housed inside a plastic chamber approximately 3 inches (7.6 centimeters) in diameter are parts that work in unison to alert a househo­ld when lethal gas is detected.
Another way to try and detect carbon monoxide leaks is by installing a CO detector. There are a variety of detectors available on the market these days, and authorities state that these gadgets can be as crucial within the home and office as smoke alarms.
1. Install a carbon monoxide detector in each room of a building. 1  Carbon monoxide detectors vary greatly in quality and efficiency, so install one in each room, or in the hallway outside each room, to increase the chance of detection. 2  Consult local health officials for advice on the best detector.
Difficult to detect and treat once the damage is done, carbon monoxide is known as the silent killer. This sneaky, toxic gas finds its way into your home through a wide range of seemingly harmless sources.
When carbon monoxide touches the detector, it's oxidized by (steals some oxygen atoms from) the chemical salts on the strip and turns into carbon dioxide. The chemicals on the strip are simultaneously reduced (have some oxygen atoms stolen from them) and change color to black.