Italicize family, genus, species, and variety or subspecies. Begin family and genus with a capital letter. Kingdom, phylum, class, order, and suborder begin with a capital letter but are not italicized. If a generic plural for an organism exists (see Dorland’s), it is neither capitalized nor italicized. Italics Use with Virus Names. A virus is not a species; a virus belongs to a species. Italicize species, genus, and family of a virus when used in a taxonomic sense. Note however, that it is fine to not mention taxonomy of a virus, especially one like dengue or polio that is well known. Do not italicize a virus name when used generically
Names of superspecies, species, and subspecies always appear with the name of the genus (or at least the genus abbreviated) so that the full specific name begins with a capital letter. The full specific name, genus plus species (and superspecies and subspecies, if used), is italicized or underlined. Examples: Birds are in the class Aves, subphylum Vertebrata, and phylum Chordata. The American Robin is in the family Turdidae, superfamily Muscicapidae, suborder Oscines, and order Passeriformes.
Genus and species names are always italicized when printed; the names of other taxa (families, etc.) are not. When a species (or several species of the same genus) is mentioned repeatedly, the genus may be abbreviated after its first mention, as in Q. alba. Binomial Nomenclature. The present system of binomial nomenclature identifies each species by a scientific name of two words, Latin in form and usually derived from Greek or Latin roots. The first name (capitalized) is the genus of the organism, the second (not capitalized) is its species.
Using italics to name the genus and species is a standard practice in biological nomenclature. It serves to set biological names apart from other parts of a text. Ex. Homo sapiens Also, one must always capitalize the genus and all other taxa (kingdom, phylum, etc.) except for species, which is always lowercase. Taxa other than genus and species need not be italicized.
In modern usage, the first letter of the first part of the name, the genus, is always capitalized in writing, while that of the second part is not, even when derived from a proper noun such as the name of a person or place. Similarly, both parts are italicized when a binomial name occurs in normal text. Binomial nomenclature (also called binominal nomenclature or binary nomenclature) is a formal system of naming species of living things by giving each a name composed of two parts, both of which use Latin grammatical forms, although they can be based on words from other languages.
1 Biology A taxonomic category ranking below a family and above a species and designating a group of species that are presumed to be closely related and usually exhibit similar characteristics. 2  In a scientific name, the genus name is capitalized and italicized, for example, Ovis for sheep and related animals. 1 In a scientific name, the genus name is capitalized and italicized, for example, Ovis for sheep and related animals. 2  Logic A class of objects divided into subordinate species having certain common attributes. 3  A class, group, or kind with common attribute