Simple Answer: James Watson and Francis Crick are credited with the first correct double-helix model of DNA structure published in 1953 in the journal Nature. More Complicat … ed: Credit for the research leading to the discovery of the structure of DNA is controversial. The publication by Watson and Crick was based on an x-ray image taken by Rosalind Franklin and Raymond Gosling in May 1952. The discovery of the structure of DNA was a culmative effort. After  the discovery that the genes were paired, Watson and Crick  suggested the first accurate model of DNA st … ructure in the journal  of Nature.
Many people believe that American biologist James Watson and English physicist Francis Crick discovered DNA in the 1950s. In reality, this is not the case. Rather, DNA was first identified in the late 1860s by Swiss chemist Friedrich Miescher. Chargaff's realization that A = T and C = G, combined with some crucially important X-ray crystallography work by English researchers Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins, contributed to Watson and Crick's derivation of the three-dimensional, double-helical model for the structure of DNA.
In 1953 James Watson and Francis Crick proposed the double-helix structure for the molecule, and by 1966 the genetic code (i.e. which amino acids were coded for by which sequences of DNA bases, and what the remaining codons meant,) had been completely worked out. As a result, Watson and Crick are largely recognized as discovering the structure of DNA for the first time, but it was really Watson, Crick and Franklin (among other, less influential, work by other scientists).
James Watson and Francis Crick, 1959 © Crick and Watson, together with Maurice Wilkins, won the 1962 Nobel Prize in Medicine for their discovery of the structure of DNA. This was one of the most significant scientific discoveries of the 20th century. Francis Harry Compton Crick was born on 8 June 1916 near Northampton. 
The discovery of deoxyribonucleic acid, otherwise known as DNA, was made by Frederick Miescher, but the structure was discovered by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953. Ro … salind Franklin produced vital images of DNA through x-ray crystallography with which Watson and Crick were able to deduce the structure of DNA. As a result, Watson and Crick are largely recognized as discovering the structure of DNA for the first time, but it was really Watson, Crick and Franklin (among other, less influential, work by other scientists).
First isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869 and with its molecular structure first identified by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953, DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. 
The structure of DNA was found to be a double helix. In 1962 Crick and Watson, along with Wilkins, received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their discovery. Rosalind Franklin had died four years earlier and her pivotal contribution wasn't acknowledged until much later. DNA double helix. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 