Congressional Caucus Law & Legal Definition. A congressional caucus refers to a collection of members of the United States Congress that meets to pursue common legislative objectives. 
Definition of CONGRESS for Kids. 1. : the chief lawmaking body of a republic that in the United States is made up of the Senate and the House of Representatives. 2. : a formal meeting of delegates for discussion and action: conference. 
Congress-the legislature of the United States government. U.S. Congress, United States Congress, US Congress. U.S. Senate, United States Senate, US Senate, Senate-the upper house of the United States Congress. 
con·gres·sion·al. adj. 1. Of or relating to a congress: a congressional convention. 2. Relating to or working in the office of a member or members of a congress: a congressional aide. n. A member of a congress. 
Definition of CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT. : a territorial division of a state from which a member of the United States House of Representatives is elected. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Definition. Federal agency responsible for composing and reporting data related to the federal budget for members of Congress. The goal of the agency is to provide Congress with accurate and timely information, which can be used to assist them in making educated decisions regarding monetary policies and taxation. 
Save. congress /ˈkɑːŋgrəs/ Brit /ˈkɑːŋˌgrɛs/ noun. plural congresses. congress. /ˈkɑːŋgrəs/ Brit /ˈkɑːŋˌgrɛs/. noun. plural congresses. Learner's definition of CONGRESS. 1. [count] : a formal meeting in which representatives or experts discuss important matters, make decisions, etc. a Communist Party congress. an annual academic congress. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. b Congress [singular] : a particular congress. especially: the congress of the United States that includes the Senate and the House of Representatives. The bill easily passed both houses of Congress.
noun. 1  the bicameral federal legislature of the US, consisting of the House of Representatives and the Senate. 2  this body during any two-year term. 3  Also called : : Congress Party (in India) a major political party, which controlled the Union government from 1947 to 1977. 
adjournment sine die. An adjournment that terminates an annual session of Congress. A sine die (without day) adjournment sets no day for reconvening, so that Congress will not meet again until the first day of the next session. 
congressional adjective [before noun]. › ​belonging or ​related to the US ​Congress: a congressional ​committee congressional ​elections. More examples. 1  He ​ blocked congressional ​ approval of the ​ rescue ​ plan. 