Most blisters caused by friction or minor burns do not require a doctor's care. New skin will form underneath the affected area and the fluid is simply absorbed. Do not puncture a blister unless it is large, painful, or likely to be further irritated. The fluid-filled blister keeps the underlying skin clean, which prevents infection and promotes healing. But if you need to pop a blister: 1 Wash your hands and the area thoroughly, then make a small hole and gently squeeze out the clear fluid. 2  If the fluid is white or yellow, the blister may be infected and needs medical attention. 3  Do not remove the skin over a broken blister.
When you have eczema, you learn about managing red, inflamed patches of skin that can itch intensely. You might also sometimes have to contend with another type of outbreak — eczema blisters that can cause even more discomfort and embarrassment. Eczema is not a single skin condition, but rather a family of conditions that cause the skin to become swollen, irritated, and itchy. Related: How to Prevent Eczema Infections. These are the types of eczema that are most often accompanied by eczema blisters: 1  First-line eczema treatments for this type of eczema include cool compresses and corticosteroid creams or ointments. 2  Dermatologists may drain larger blisters to relieve pain.
As displayed in this image, the blisters of dyshidrotic dermatitis are often difficult to see due to the thick skin of the palm and fingers. Dyshidrotic eczema, also known as dyshidrotic dermatitis, is an itchy rash that occurs on the hands and feet. Dyshidrotic eczema looks like blisters on the skin. Sometimes the blisters are very small, like pinpoints, and sometimes they are larger, covering almost the whole palm or foot. The fluid inside the blister can be clear or white to yellow.
Introduction. Pompholyx is a type of eczema that causes tiny blisters to develop across the fingers, palms of the hands and sometimes the soles of the feet. It's also known as dyshidrotic eczema. Pompholyx can affect people of any age, but it's most often seen in adults under 40 years of age. Pompholyx usually starts as intense itching and burning of the skin on the hands and fingers. The palms and sides of the fingers (and sometimes the soles of the feet) then erupt into tiny itchy blisters that may weep fluid.
#1) don't pop your blisters. #2) when the condition flairs up, have cortisone creams on hand. They are your only ammunition. #3) don't pick the skin after the blisters have healed, this can cause trauma to the area and more blisters! #4) Try sticking your hands in a high intensity tanning bed. This worked well for me. 
Do not pop the blisters of dyshidrotic eczema because of the risk of infection. A doctor may prescribe a cream to help the rash heal. Overview. Anyone of any age can develop dyshidrotic eczema, but it is usually seen in teens and adults and rarely in infants and children. Dyshidrotic eczema looks like blisters on the skin. Sometimes the blisters are very small, like pinpoints, and sometimes they are larger, covering almost the whole palm or foot. The fluid inside the blister can be clear or white to yellow.
Allow the blister to drain. Try to keep the skin covering the blister intact. 5. Apply your antibiotic cream to the punctured blister and cover the area with a gauze pad or a bandage. 6. Check your blister periodically for any sign of swelling, redness, increasing warmth, puss or pain. These may be the signs of infection and you will need to call your doctor
(Pus is serum and the dead bacteria when there is an infection, so in eczema there is really no pus) Now the thing about 'eczema' is to find why the immune system is doing this when there is no visible trauma or infection. I study dyshidrosis, a sort of eczema on the hands and feet, which is an allergy. 
Dyshidrotic eczema. This form of eczema is seen on the hands and feet and is more common in women. Usually, small deep blisters form on the palms of the hands, soles of the feet, and sides of the fingers. The blisters are extremely itchy and cause scaly skin patches that flake constantly. Related: How to Prevent Eczema Infections. These are the types of eczema that are most often accompanied by eczema blisters: 1  First-line eczema treatments for this type of eczema include cool compresses and corticosteroid creams or ointments. 2  Dermatologists may drain larger blisters to relieve pain.