TerraBlock. TerraBlock is a unique flexible insulation/crawl space liner in one. It is the first insulation for wavy crawl space floors, which can be as cold as 55. It can be used on walls as well, 3/4 foam insulation has a white vapor barrier on one side and black on the other. 
TerraBlock™ Crawl Space Floor Insulation is a durable, long-lasting insulation product designed specifically for crawl space floors. Able to be installed on uneven floors, this product includes a white vapor barrier that will keep moisture from making its way up through dirt, stone, or concrete crawl space floors. If you have water seepage in your crawl space, TerraBlock™ can be combined with drainage matting to direct water to a sump pump system. This system is durable enough for regular traffic from homeowners and service workers, without risk of damaging the vapor barrier or crushing the insulation
1 TerraBlock® crawl space floor insulation is flexible enough to cover uneven floor areas. 2  It’s also puncture resistant. 3  Installing TerraBlock® over a crawl space floor creates a cushioned surface that homeowners and service pros appreciate when moving around in the crawl space. Insulating crawl space walls will always take precedence over insulating the floor, but floor insulation can be a valuable improvement in the following situations: 1  Dirt-floored crawl spaces. 2  It’s critical to install a moisture barrier over a dirt-floored
Our TerraBlock Crawl Space Floor Insulation, combined with our SilverGlo™™ Crawl Space Wall Insulation is the ideal combination for creating an insulated vapor barrier on your crawl space surfaces. Combined with the rest of our system, it provides a solution for your home that includes a 25-year written warranty. When installed on a crawl space floor, it provides a puncture-resistant vapor barrier on all surfaces it covers -- one that will not be damaged by water or support the growth of mold, rot, and mildew. TerraBlock is intended to be used along with our other crawl space products to repair and seal your crawl space
TerraBlock™ Crawl Space Floor Insulation is a durable, long-lasting insulation product designed specifically for crawl space floors. Able to be installed on uneven floors, this product includes a white vapor barrier that will keep moisture from making its way up through dirt, stone, or concrete crawl space floors. If you have water seepage in your crawl space, TerraBlock™ can be combined with drainage matting to direct water to a sump pump system. For added durability, an additional crawl space liner may be installed on top.
1 Rough, uneven crawl space floors. 2  TerraBlock® crawl space floor insulation is flexible enough to cover uneven floor areas. 3  It’s also puncture resistant. 4  Installing TerraBlock® over a crawl space floor creates a cushioned surface that homeowners and service pros appreciate when moving around in the crawl space. Insulating crawl space walls will always take precedence over insulating the floor, but floor insulation can be a valuable improvement in the following situations: 1  Dirt-floored crawl spaces. 2  It’s critical to install a moisture barrier over a dirt-floored
TerraBlock™ Crawl Space Floor Insulation is a durable, long-lasting insulation product designed specifically for crawl space floors. Able to be installed on uneven floors, this product includes a white vapor barrier that will keep moisture from making its way up through dirt, stone, or concrete crawl space floors. If you have water seepage in your crawl space, TerraBlock™ can be combined with drainage matting to direct water to a sump pump system. Sealing and insulating the crawl space using this puncture-resistant, padded product will help to keep your utilities (such as your furnace, heating ducts, hot water pipes, and water heater) from having to work in a cold, damp crawl space.
What It Does: TerraBlock™ Crawl Space Floor Insulation is a durable, long-lasting insulation product designed specifically for crawl space floors. Able to be installed on uneven floors, this product includes a white vapor barrier that will keep moisture from making its way up through dirt, stone, or concrete crawl space floors. If you have water seepage in your crawl space, TerraBlock™ can be combined with drainage matting to direct water to a sump pump system.