You see, by the end of the first year of training in the book, Jonas and The Giver decide it is time for the community to have their memories back. That society hasn’t been helped, but actually harmed, by eliminating them in the first place. For one, that is close in age to many of the readers the first time they pick up Lowry’s book, making it easier for them to relate to and empathize with Jonas’ confusing journey into adulthood and decision-making, as they are at the same point in life.
As a toddler, Asher “always talked too fast and mixed up words” while he was trying to master precision of language (ch 7, p. 55). The community’s obsession with precision led to poor Asher being punished over and over again for saying the wrong word, to the point that he stopped talking altogether. At this point, “Asher whimpered, cringed, and corrected himself instantly” in a whisper. Yet Asher continued to make the same mistake. Eventually he was so nervous he didn’t say anything at all. Eventually, for a period of time, Asher stopped talking altogether, when he was a Three. (ch 7, p. 55). Asher's mistakenly using the wrong word and being punished for it to the point that he stops talking demonstrates the community's relentless insistence that everyone be the same, and their complete lack of compassion
The Giver is a 1993 American Young-adult fiction-Dystopian novel by Lois Lowry. It is set in a society which at first appears as a utopian society but then later revealed to be a dystopian one as the story progresses. 
Asher is a character in The Giver. He is known to be silly but good-natured and playful, never intending to hurt anybody. He is Jonas ' best friend, having a great sense of humor. This resulted in a silent Asher for a while, but after a while he learned and began to talk with greater precision. Asher is usually late for school, and uses multiple excuses to explain this. On the other hand he is described by most to be fun to be around.
Film Adaptation. 1  In the movie adaption of The Giver, Asher is portrayed by Cameron Monaghan. 2  Asher's age is changed from 12 to 16. 3  Asher's assignment is Drone Pilot instead of recreation director. This resulted in a silent Asher for a while, but after a while he learned and began to talk with greater precision. Asher is usually late for school, and uses multiple excuses to explain this. On the other hand he is described by most to be fun to be around.
1 Lois Lowry: Popular Books by the Author of The Giver Lois Lowry, author of The Giver, is one of the most esteemed authors of books for children and young adults, in no small part due to her work on that book. 2  However, Lowry i…. 
I'm the one who's training for Assistant Recreation Director, Asher pointed out angrily. Games aren't your area of expertness. (ch 17, p. 134). Asher is assigned to be Assistant Director of Recreation. In the community, each child is given a job for life at the Ceremony of Twelve when they turn twelve years old. Jonas is concerned about his friend Asher, who mixes his words up and can be immature. I worry a little about Asher's Assignment, Jonas confessed. Asher's such fun. 
Asher was assigned the job of Assistant Recreational Director. He was the fourth one to receive his job assignment as his birth number is #4, meaning that he was the fourth child born in his year out of 50 children. This resulted in a silent Asher for a while, but after a while he learned and began to talk with greater precision. Asher is usually late for school, and uses multiple excuses to explain this. On the other hand he is described by most to be fun to be around.
Family. Asher has a father, a mother and a baby sister called Phillipa, who Asher's family gained when Asher became an Eleven. Phillipa is a one in the book, although not much is said about her. This resulted in a silent Asher for a while, but after a while he learned and began to talk with greater precision. Asher is usually late for school, and uses multiple excuses to explain this. On the other hand he is described by most to be fun to be around.