The energy in sunlight is introduced into the biosphere by a process known as photosynthesis, which occurs in plants, algae and some types of bacteria. Photosynthesis can be defined as the physico-chemical process by which photosynthetic organisms use light energy to drive the synthesis of organic compounds.
Chlorophyll: A compound in plants that makes possible the conversion of light energy to chemical energy. Dark reactions: Those reactions in the photosynthesis process that can occur in the absence of sunlight. Glucose: A sugar, or simple carbohydrate, that serves as an energy source for cells.
Photo by: Nejron Photo. Photosynthesis is the process by which green plants and certain types of bacteria make carbohydrates, beginning only with carbon dioxide (CO 2) and water (H 2 O). Carbohydrates are complex chemical compounds that occur widely in plants and that serve as an important food source for animals.
The glucose is used in respiration, or converted into starch and stored. Oxygen is produced as a by-product. This process is called photosynthesis. Temperature, carbon dioxide concentration and light intensity are factors that can limit the rate of photosynthesis. Plants also need mineral ions, including nitrate and magnesium, for healthy growth.
Photosynthesis [photosynthesis: The chemical change that occurs in the leaves of green plants. It uses light energy to convert carbon dioxide and water into glucose. Oxygen is produced as a by-product of photosynthesis. ] is the chemical change which happens in the leaves of green plants. It is the first step towards making food-not just for plants but ultimately every animal on the planet.
The light reactions and the Calvin cycle cooperate in converting light energy to the chemical energy of food: an overview. The equation for photosynthesis is a deceptively simple summary of a very complex process. Actually, photosynthesis is not a single process, but two, each with multiple steps.
Photosynthesis is the process by which organisms that contain the pigment chlorophyll convert light energy into chemical energy which can be stored in the molecular bonds of organic molecules (e.g., sugars). Photosynthesis powers almost all trophic chains and food webs on the Earth.