A roadrunner's top speed is 20 mph while coyotes can reach speed of up to 43 mph. ». «. A roadrunner's top speed is 20 mph while coyotes can reach speed of up to 43 mph. My whole childhood was a big lie!!!!
E. Coyote chasing it, a Greater Roadrunner can reach speeds of 20 MPH (32 KPH) while a Coyote can reach speeds of up to 43 MPH (69 KPH). Clearly, in an all out footrace, the roadrunner would be dinner. Of course, a couple facts get in the way of Wile E Coyote snacking on Road Runner. First of all, roadrunners have an amazing ability to use ground cover as they run and they rarely move in a straight line. Wild coyotes can’t expect roadrunners to actually stick to the road when their life is on the line!
He is always hungry.. Jones said he created the Coyote-Road Runner cartoons as a parody of traditional cat and mouse cartoons such as MGM 's Tom and Jerry, which Jones would work on as a director later in his career. Jones modelled the Coyote's appearance on fellow animator Ken Harris.
A coyote is faster. They can reach speeds of up to 40 mph, whereas wolves have been recorded as reaching only 35 mph. Recorded data isn't always correct or accurate. I have … a high content wolf dog which has a slight amount of dog at the most. His anatomy and all features /characteristics are wolf. 
What can run the fastest coyote or roadrunner | whatanswered.com. What can run the fastest coyote or roadrunner, Have you ever wondered what can run the fastest between a Coyote and a Roadrunner in a race, should we believe the rumered cartoons. A Coyote, at full speed, can run as fast as 43 miles per hour. A Roadrunner, at full speed, can run as fast as 20 miles per hour. What can run the fastest coyote or roadrunner, Have you ever wondered what can run the fastest between a Coyote and a Roadrunner in a race, should we believe the rumered cartoons. Custom Search.
Image via Great American Ink. While idly browsing the Internet, I came across a post claiming that a coyote can actually run faster than a roadrunner. Considering that this information goes against everything I’ve been taught by cartoons, I refused to believe it. But I decided to turn to Google Books and briefly research the topic anyway. 
Meep-Meep! Should a coyote someday catch a roadrunner the result would likely be something like this: *Citation for Greater Roadrunner speeds found via Wikipedia’s Greater Roadrunner page and information about the top speed of a Coyote came via Fact Monster. **Sentence edited after a correction in the comments. Of course, a couple facts get in the way of Wile E Coyote snacking on Road Runner. First of all, roadrunners have an amazing ability to use ground cover as they run and they rarely move in a straight line. Wild coyotes can’t expect roadrunners to actually stick to the road when their life is on the line!
The greater roadrunner is the basis for the cartoon character Road Runner, a bird who uses his speed and cunning to outmaneuver his enemy, Wile E. Coyote, though real coyote are faster than roadrunners. The greater roadrunner (Geococcyx californianus) is a long-legged bird in the cuckoo family, Cuculidae, from Southwestern United States and Mexico. The Latin name means Californian earth-cuckoo. Along with the lesser roadrunner, it is one of two species in the roadrunner genus Geococcyx.
It is the state bird of New Mexico. The cartoon character The Road Runner, who uses his speed and cunning to out manoeuvre his enemy, Wile E. Coyote, is based on the Greater Roadrunner. However, real Coyotes are faster than Roadrunners — 69km/h (43mph) as against 32km/h (20mph).