It may not have the cutest name, but wormwood is an effective herb. You're not likely to forget what it is used for because wormwood lives up to its name. The herb long has been used in herbal remedies to rid the body of pinworms, roundworms, and other parasites. And if you've got one, chances are, you're eager to see it go. Absinthe, an old French liqueur prepared from wormwood, is now illegal because absinthol, a volatile oil the herb contains, has been found to cause nerve depression, mental impairment, and loss of reproductive function when used for a long time. Wormwood also lent its flavor and its name to vermouth.
Wormwood is an herb. The above-ground plant parts and oil are used for medicine. Wormwood is used for various digestion problems such as loss of appetite, upset stomach, gall bladder disease, and intestinal spasms. Wormwood is also used to treat fever, liver disease, and worm infections; to increase sexual desire; as a tonic; and to stimulate sweating. Wormwood oil is also used for digestive disorders, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate the imagination. Some people apply wormwood directly to the skin for healing wounds and insect bites. Wormwood oil is used as a counterirritant to reduce pain. In manufacturing, wormwood oil is used as a fragrance component in soaps, cosmetics, and perfumes. It is also used as an insecticide. Wormwood is used in some alcoholic beverages. Vermouth, for example, is a wine beverage flavored with extracts of wormwood. Absinthe is another well-known alcoholic beverage made with wormwood. It is an emerald-green alcoholic drink that is prepared from wormwood oil, often along with other dried herbs such as anise and fennel
Wormwood is the common name for Artemisia absinthium, the plant whose aromatic oil is used to make absinthe. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Artemisia absinthium (absinthium, absinthe wormwood, wormwood, common wormwood, green ginger or grand wormwood) is a species of Artemisia, native to temperate regions of Eurasia and Northern Africa and widely naturalized in Canada and the northern United States. 
Absinthe is made with Artemisia absinthium (wormwood) and other herbs. Originally used as a bitter digestif (similar to amaro), true absinthe can be difficult to procure. 
Uses of Wormwood Wormwood is an analgesic (pain reliever) when used in a salve. Good for arthritis, sore muscles, etc. Only use externally. It is also an excellent insect repellent when dried, and in the garden will deter pests that attack fruit trees, carrots, cabbage and onions. The name of the star is Wormwood.' A third of  the waters became wormwood, and many people died from the water,  because it was made bitter. (Revelation 8:10-11).    Wormwood (in Slavonic, 'Chernobyl'), an extremely bitter plant that  would make water undrinkable, symbolizes the bitter fruits of  idolatry.
Wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). The benefits of the Wormwood have long been documented and has several benefits and remedies known to man. The following is an in depth look at the constitution and value of the herb and the most beneficial ways to make use of it.
Artemisia absinthium, or common wormwood, is most famous as an ingredient of the alcoholic beverage absinthe. Wormwood is also found in vermouth, but at lower levels. Besides its common function as a flavoring, wormwood also has a long history of medicinal use. A reputed ability to kill intestinal worms gave rise to the herb’s name.