The stamen (plural stamina or stamens) is the pollen-producing reproductive organ of a flower. Morphology and terminology [edit]. A stamen typically consists of a stalk called the filament and an anther which contains microsporangia. Most commonly anthers are two-lobed and are attached to the filament either at the base or in the middle portion. The sterile tissue between the lobes is called the connective
Stamen. The stamen is the pollen-producing reproductive organ of a flower. Stamens typically consist of a stalk called the filament, and an anther, which contains microsporangia. Anthers are most commonly two-lobed and are attached to the filament either at the base or in the middle portion. 
stamen. n, pl stamens or stamina (ˈstaemɪnə). ˈstæmɪnə. (1) botany the male reproductive organ of a, flower consisting of a (stalk) filament bearing an anther in which pollen is. [Produced: c17 From: latin the warp in an upright, loom from stāre to]. stand the pollen-bearing organ of a flower, consisting of the filament and the anther. stāmen warp, thread, stamen = stā(re) to stand + -men n. suffix]. sta′mened, adj.
Full Definition of STAMEN. : a microsporophyll of a seed plant; specifically: the pollen-producing male organ of a flower that consists of an anther and a filament — see flower illustration. See stamen defined for English-language learners. See stamen defined for kids. Definition of STAMEN for Kids. : the part of a flower that produces pollen and is made up of an anther and a filament.
Noun. 1. stamen-the male reproductive organ of a flower. blossom, flower, bloom-reproductive organ of angiosperm plants especially one having showy or colorful parts. anther-the part of the stamen that contains pollen; usually borne on a stalk. the pollen-bearing organ of a flower, consisting of the filament and the anther. stāmen warp, thread, stamen = stā(re) to stand + -men n. suffix]. sta′mened, adj.
stamen. n, pl stamens or stamina (ˈstaemɪnə). ˈstæmɪnə. (1) botany the male reproductive organ of a, flower consisting of a (stalk) filament bearing an anther in which pollen is. [Produced: c17 From: latin the warp in an upright, loom from stāre to]. stand Noun. 1. stamen-the male reproductive organ of a flower. blossom, flower, bloom-reproductive organ of angiosperm plants especially one having showy or colorful parts. anther-the part of the stamen that contains pollen; usually borne on a stalk. gynostegium-the crown of the stamen in plants of the genus Asclepias.
stamen. One of the male organs of a flower, consisting typically of a stalk (filament) and a pollen-bearing portion (anther). The male reproductive organ of a flower.The male organ of angiosperm flowers where pollen grains are produced in the anther component of the stamen. These pollen grains are produced by meiosis and provide the building blocks required for reproduction of an angiosperm species. 