General Appearance. The first impression of a good German Shepherd Dog is that of a strong, agile, well muscled animal, alert and full of life. It is well balanced, with harmonious development of the forequarter and hindquarter. The dog is longer than tall, deep-bodied, and presents an outline of smooth curves rather than angles. 
[ˈʃɛːfɐˌhʊnt]) is a breed of large-sized working dog that originated in Germany. The breed's officially recognized name is German Shepherd Dog in the English language, sometimes abbreviated as  GSD , and was also formerly known as the Alsatian and Alsatian Wolf Dog in Britain. The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed of dog, with their origin dating to 1899. As part of the Herding Group, German Shepherds are working dogs developed originally for herding sheep
We're so confident in our World Class Gunbil German shepherds breeding program that we offer a  WORRY FREE  FIVE YEAR genetic HEALTH and TEMPERAMENT GUARANTEE ! In the event that the guarantee is honored, Gunbil German Shepherds will provide another dog of the same quality, age, gender (of choice) and value. 
10. Enroll your German Shepherd puppy in a basic or puppy obedience class. Typically, as puppies are first learning commands, one adult family member will be responsible for training. Later, when the puppy is consistent and understands the basics, other members of the family can participate in formal training. Although any German Shepherd dog is trainable, they are very strong and powerful animals. If you start out with a puppy, you have the opportunity to shape and mold its personality and develop your relationship early. 1  If you happen to get an older dog, adult dogs can still be trained effectively.
That is why the German Shepherd Dog Club of Minneapolis and St. Paul is offering a Puppy Foundation Class. Core components of the class are: socialization, basic manners training, and educating owners on how to properly develop a young GSD into a confident, well adjusted adult. Most handlers in the advanced class have exhibited German Shepherd Dogs in a dog show. Please bring your German Shepherd Dog, a show collar, a lead (4-6 foot, leather preferred), bait (treats to reward your dog), and wear comfortable clothing and shoes (No Heels!), as you will be running with your dog.
German Shepherd. World Class Canine is proud to present our genuine German Shepherd sales and breeding program. At World Class Canine we only supply and breed exceptional military grade working German Shepherd dogs that possess rock solid nerves and exceptional working drives. It is rare for a client to bring in a German Shepherd (that wasn't breed here) that possesses the drives and solid nerves required for serious protection or, patrol work. By rare I mean, your chances of winning the lotto or, finding a decent working GSD in the newspaper are about even.
German Shepherds are powerful and third most intelligent dogs in  the world. 75% of police dogs are German Shepherds. German  Shepherds have extremely powerful bite force an … d have defined  pointed ears (non-cropped) and thick fur which is usually tan with  a black sadle and dark snout. German shepherds are fierce and loyal  guard dogs but gentle and caring family dogs that will stay by your  side through thick and thin.
Begin your training attempts with a German Shepherd puppy when it is around 8 weeks old. Although any German Shepherd dog is trainable, they are very strong and powerful animals. If you start out with a puppy, you have the opportunity to shape and mold its personality and develop your relationship early. 1  If you happen to get an older dog, adult dogs can still be trained effectively.
The German Shepherd dog/puppy is a pack animal. They need you to be the leader of the pack, providing structure and guidance. You must provide an environment of trust-through training and repeitition, with appropriate verbal and non-verbal commands. THE KEY TO TRAINING IS CONSISTENCY & PRACTICE ... 
These rare genuine working German Shepherds are truly the upper echelon of the German Shepherd breed. Purchasing a World Class Canine German Shepherd is truly a step back into time, prior to over-breeding and Americanization of the typical GSD. It is rare for a client to bring in a German Shepherd (that wasn't breed here) that possesses the drives and solid nerves required for serious protection or, patrol work. By rare I mean, your chances of winning the lotto or, finding a decent working GSD in the newspaper are about even.