About Warts. Warts are non-cancerous (benign) skin growths caused by viruses that develop on different parts of the body and can take on various forms. They are contagious and very common: Almost everyone has a wart at some point in their life. Warts can affect people at any age, but are most common among children and young people. Viral warts are a common skin disease, most frequently affecting the hands and feet, caused by the human papilloma virus. While warts are not harmful and usually go away in time without any treatment, they can be unsightly and painful. Warts on the soles of the feet are also called 'plantar warts' or 'verrucas'.
Most people have had a wart on their body somewhere at some time in their life. Warts are harmless, but most people don’t like the way they look. Warts are extra layers of skin caused by the human papilloma virus (HPV) family. The virus is spread by skin-to-skin contact. Only certain types of HPV cause genital warts and cervical problems. 1 Common warts: Where: Usually on fingers, hands, knees and elbows. 2  What they look like: small hard bumps, darker than other skin, top is rough like cauliflower with black or red-brown dots inside. 3  Plantar warts: Where: on the bottom (plantar) surface of the foot.
Warts and Plantar Warts-Topic Overview. This topic has information about warts on any part of the body except the genitals. For information about warts on the genitals, see the topic Genital Warts. A wart is a skin growth caused by some types of the virus called the human papillomavirus (HPV) . HPV infects the top layer of skin, usually entering the body in an area of broken skin. The virus causes the top layer of skin to grow rapidly, forming a wart. Most warts go away on their own within months or years. Plantar warts grow on the soles of the feet. Warts are easily spread by direct contact with a human papillomavirus. You can infect yourself again by touching the wart and then touching another part of your body. You can infect another person by sharing towels, razors, or other personal items.
A wart is typically a small growth that appears on a person's hands or feet and looks like a solid blister or a small cauliflower. They may also appear on other parts of the body. Warts have a rough texture and are caused by viruses, particularly one of several kinds of HPV (human papillomavirus). The virus causes keratin, which is a hard protein on the top layer of the skin, to grow too fast. Warts are not the same as moles.
1 Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 2  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 3  Warts respond variably to a variety of treatment measures. 1 Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 4
Wart facts. 1  Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 1 Warts are small, self-limited tumors caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. 2  Types of warts include common warts, flat warts, plantar warts, periungual warts, and filiform warts. 3  Warts typically disappear on their own with time, but it may take years. 4  Warts respond variably to a variety of treatment measure
It typically occurs on humans' hands or feet but often in other locations. Warts are caused by a viral infection, specifically by one of the many types of human papillomavirus (HPV). There are as many as 10 varieties of warts, the most common considered to be mostly harmless. 1 Genital wart (venereal wart, Condyloma acuminatum, Verruca acuminata), a wart that occurs on the genitalia. 2  Mosaic wart, a group of tightly clustered plantar-type warts, commonly on the hands or soles of the feet.