PULL-UPSTUD. DRIVE RIVETS. A drive rivet is a type of blind rivet that is installed by driving the center pin into the body of the rivet using a hammer in order to cause the other end of the rivet to flare out and fasten materials together.
2. rivet-heavy pin having a head at one end and the other end being hammered flat after being passed through holes in the pieces that are fastened together. clinch-the flattened part of a nail or bolt or rivet. pin-a small slender (often pointed) piece of wood or metal used to support or fasten or attach things. n. A metal bolt or pin having a head on one end, inserted through aligned holes in the pieces to be joined and then hammered on the plain end so as to form a second head. tr.v. riv·et·ed, riv·et·ing, riv·ets. 1. To fasten or secure, especially with a rivet or rivets.
: a special kind of metal bolt or pin that is used to hold pieces of metal together. : a headed pin or bolt of metal used for uniting two or more pieces by passing the shank through a hole in each piece and then beating or pressing down the plain end so as to make a second head. Full Definition of RIVET. transitive verb. 1. : to fasten with or as if with rivets. 2. : to upset the end or point of (as a metallic pin, rod, or bolt) by beating or pressing so as to form a head. 3. 4. : to attract and hold (as the attention) completely. — riv·et·er noun
(December 2014). A rivet gun, also known as a pneumatic hammer, is a type of tool used to drive rivets. The rivet gun is used on the manufactured head side of the rivet and a bucking bar is used on the buck-tail side of the rivet. The energy from the hammer in the rivet gun drives the work and the rivet against the inertia of the bucking bar. 
A rivet is a permanent mechanical fastener. Before being installed, a rivet consists of a smooth cylindrical shaft with a head on one end. The end opposite the head is called the tail. Because there is effectively a head on each end of an installed rivet, it can support tension loads (loads parallel to the axis of the shaft); however, it is much more capable of supporting shear loads (loads perpendicular to the axis of the shaft). Bolts and screws are better suited for tension applications.
Techniques. There are different methods for joining different rivets as well. Hand riveting is done with a bucking bar or a blind rivet. However, there are also cold riveting and hot riveting. When the rivet is pushed through the hole, the bucking bar acts as a barrier that deforms the end of the rivet into a head. The head keeps the pieces together
A “semi-tubular rivet” has a manufactured head on one end and tubular shank hole-depth of less than 112% of the shank diameter of the rivet. A “tubular rivet” has shank hole-depth equal to or greater than 112% of the shank diameter. Common rivet head styles are oval, truss, button, flat and countersunk. 
Solid Rivets. A solid rivet has a manufactured head on one end and a solid shank on the other end. The shank of the rivet can be produced with a straight cut-off or a chamfered cut-off end. A die point can be manufactured into the shank end to aid alignment during assembly. 