Lesson Summary. A monocot is a type of flowering plant that is characterized by having a single cotyledon, trimerous flowers, and parallel leaf veins. Monocots are economically important as food sources for both humans and animals, and they grow in a variety of habitats, including the tropics. 
Palms, Orchids, and most bulbous plants are monocots. A dicot has two cotyledons (dicot is short for 'dicotyledon', and 'di' means two). The seed leaves are usually rounded and fat, because they are the two halves of the seed. The first true leaves can be many different shapes, from long and thin to rounded or palmate. A cotyledon is a seed leaf, and 'mono' means one). This seed leaf is usually the same shape as the adult leaf, long and thin, and the leaf veins nearly always run parallel to the central midrib. Sometimes, the adult leaves are pinnate, as in many palms, but the veins are parallel on each leaflet.
3. The vascular bundles in monocot plants are without intrafasicular cambium whereas in dicot the vascular bundles has cambium in between xylem and phloem. a monocot has a one seed cotyledon(the word mono means one)..while the dicot has a two seed cotyledon... Making the world better, one answer at a time. 1  Monocot and dicot are short for monocotyledon and dicotyledon. 2  Mono-means one, and monocots have one cotyledon. 3  Di-means two, and dicots have two cotyledons.
Monocot. Definition. noun, plural: monocotyledons. A group of flowering plants belonging to the class Liliopsida (or Monocotyledonae) of Angiospermae (angiosperms), characterized by having only one cotyledon in the seed and an endogenous manner of growth. Supplement. Apart from the number of cotyledons, other identifying characteristics are as follows: 1  the number of flower parts-monocot flowers are trimerous (in multiples of three). 2  the number of pores in pollen-monocots have one.
1 Monocot and dicot are short for monocotyledon and dicotyledon. 2  Mono-means one, and monocots have one cotyledon. 3  Di-means two, and dicots have two cotyledons. Making the world better, one answer at a time. 1  Monocot and dicot are short for monocotyledon and dicotyledon. 2  Mono-means one, and monocots have one cotyledon. 3  Di-means two, and dicots have two cotyledons.
1 arrangement of vascular bundles in the stem-in monocots, the vascular bundles are scattered. 2  the roots-monocot roots are adventitious roots. 3  the arrangement of major leaf veins-in monocots, the leaves have parallel venation. Apart from the number of cotyledons, other identifying characteristics are as follows: 1  the number of flower parts-monocot flowers are trimerous (in multiples of three). 2  the number of pores in pollen-monocots have one.
di路cot路y路le路don. n. Any of various flowering plants that are not monocotyledons, having two cotyledons in the seed and usually flower parts in multiples of four or five, leaves with reticulate venation, pollen with three pores, and the capacity for secondary growth. 
Examples of monocotyledonous plants are the palms, grasses, orchids, and lilies. The angiosperms (the flowering plants) can either be a monocotyledon (or monocot) or a dicotyledon (or dicot) according to the number of cotyledons in their seeds. Apart from the number of cotyledons, other identifying characteristics are as follows: 1  the number of flower parts-monocot flowers are trimerous (in multiples of three). 2  the number of pores in pollen-monocots have one.