Gestation Period for Cats. The most common gestation period of cats will last between 63 and 67 days but variations up to 71 have been noted. This is nothing to be alarmed about but it might be good to pay extra attention to the cat's behavior. 
The usual cat gestation period is 58 to 65 days, that is, about nine weeks or a little over two months. However, the cat can have a normal delivery approximately five days before or after the stipulated date too. 
Early In The Pregnancy: Gestation or the length of pregnancy of a cat averages 64 days. It is generally between 62 and 67 days or about 9-10 weeks. You might notice subtle indications of pregnancy after the first 3 weeks. The cat’s nipples will begin to swell and their color will change from white to a rosy pink. 
Gestation. Felines hit puberty and begin mating at about the age of 6 months. A cat's gestation period last approximately 63 days, so if you bred your cat or know when she got out of the house and probably mated you can expect kittens to arrive two months later. The gestation period for Siamese cats is a few days longer. 
A typical healthy gestation period for a domestic cat is typically anywhere from 57 to 69 days, but you'll hear different numbers in or around that range, even from veterinarians. The number 65 is often mentioned as the ideal time frame. The entire cat gestation period, while not all that long, is very stressful for your cat. Make sure that your vet is fully involved in the pregnancy and that you report anything that may be a possible health issue for your cat during this time.
How Long is the Gestation Period. The standard gestation period for cats is about 60 to 70 days, the equivalent of about two months. This will be a period of ups and downs for your pregnant cat. She may go from being contented and affectionate, to agitated, and back again during this time. 
Pregnancy (or the gestation period) lasts for 58 to 63 days in queens. Individual cats may vary but you should inform your veterinarian if your queen's pregnancy exceeds 64 days. 
Cat gestation period varies from cat to cat-much like humans! The average gestation period for cats is about 65 days, with most lasting between 63 and 67 days. Having said that, cat pregnancy can last anywhere between about 57 and 70 days. An easy way to remember the gestation period of a cat is to think of each week of cat pregnancy as equivalent to a month of human pregnancy. So, 9 weeks of a cat pregnancy is 63 days (equivalent to 9 months of a full-term human pregnancy).
The gestation period for a cat is 63-65 days. This varies between cat though, and anywhere between 60 to 70 days is normal. 
The cat gestation period lasts 9 weeks on average, or about 63 days. A normal pregnancy is between 57 and 69 days. Knowing what to expect and what is normal is helpful to make sure your pet stays healthy during and after the pregnancy. 