Venus and Earth are similar in size, mass, density, composition, and distance from the sun. There, however, is where the similarities end. Venus is covered by a thick, rapidly spinning atmosphere, creating a scorched world with temperatures hot enough to melt lead and a surface pressure 90 times that of Earth.
Venus is the second planet from the Sun and the sixth largest. Venus' orbit is the most nearly circular of that of any planet, with an eccentricity of less than 1%.
Venus is the second planet from the Sun and the third brightest object in Earth's sky after the Sun and Moon. It is sometimes referred to as the sister planet to Earth, because their size and mass are so similar. Venus is also the closest planet to Earth.
Northrop Grumman has come up with a Venus mission concept called VAMP (Venus Atmospheric Maneuverable Platform): An inflatable propeller plane that could cruise Earth's super-heated sister planet for years, sampling the acidic alien atmopshere directly and safely observing the venusian surface from 50 kilometers up.
Northrop Grumman. Northrop Grumman wants to send a plane to Venus. But it has to give the Venus Atmospheric Maneuverable Platform some wings on Earth first: Northrop is hoping to win the New Frontiers competition next year and land $1 billion of that sweet, sweet NASA money.
Venus is the second planet from the Sun, and is Earth's closest neighbor in the solar system. Venus is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun and the Moon, and sometimes looks like a bright star in the morning or evening sky. The planet is a little smaller than Earth, and is similar to Earth inside. We can't see the surface of Venus from Earth, because it is covered with thick clouds.
1 Venus is the closest planet to Earth. 2  When Venus is in line with Earth and the Sun, it is the closest planet to us, at an average distance of 41 million kilometers (25.5 million miles) away.
Venus is the second planet from the Sun and is the second brightest object in the night sky after the Moon. Named after the Roman goddess of love and beauty, Venus is the second largest terrestrial planet and is sometimes referred to as the Earth’s sister planet due the their similar size and mass.