The Luxury Four Star Hotel in Macroom, Co. Cork, nestled between Blarney & Killarney, is the ideal base to explore the glories of the South West of Ireland. Whether your stay at The Castle Hotel Macroom is with family, for business or pleasure, an intimate welcome awaits you at this boutique Cork hotel. Read More.
Martin, United Kingdom. The breakfast was excellent and staff were always there to help. Jess, Ireland. This boutique hotel with swimming pool and holistic therapy suite is in Macroom, between Blarney and Killarney in southwest Ireland. The Buckley family has run Castle Hotel for over 60 years and offers a very warm welcome.
You may catch the local Macroom Farmers Market on a Tuesday morning to pick up some great local produce ranging from locally grown fruit and vegetables, cheeses, honey and locally grown plants and some home baked cakes and other delights. Macroom is twinned with the Breton town of Bubry and Marcallo con Casone in Italy.
Later Macroom became a centre point of conflict in the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland. The population was decimated in the 1840s by famine and emigration, the former evidenced by the remains of a workhouse, now the district hospital, and a mass graveyard to the west, near Clondrohid. Macroom was the main base in Cork for the British Auxiliary Division during the 1919–1921 Irish War of Independence. The Irish Republican Army was highly active in the county, especially in the areas around Macroom, Bandon and Dunmanway.
Welcome to Macroom. Lee Valley Enterprise Board created this website to promote all aspects of the town of Macroom and the beautiful Lee Valley in which it lies.ourth Food Festival. All your favourite restaurants, cafes, cafés bars and food producers aim to delight your taste buds at the Upcoming Macroom Food. Festival the organisers promise, food glorious, food music and fun for all the family at the 4th taste, Extravaganza friday, 25th saturday 26th And sunday 27th september. 2015
Welcome to My Macroom. Macroom, a beautiful market town situated mid way between Cork and Tralee in Co. Kerry is the gateway to tourism in South Kerry and the beautiful scenic area of West Cork. Macroom, The Capital of Muskerry boasts the beautiful River Sullane, running virtually through the centre of town, and added to the River Lee and the River Lawney which also flow nearby, it is no wonder fishing is a big part of life in this area.
5 km west of Macroom, to the left of the main road, in a picturesque setting, Carrigaphooca Castle stands on a rock above the trees. The 'pooca' is a malicious spirit who haunted this fairytale place. Angling in Macroom can be enjoyed on the River Sullane. Situated on the N22 midway between Cork City and Killarney is Macroom a busy market town in the valley of the Sullane River. The Gateway which is all that remains of Macroom Castle is interesting and in fact, the town were once owned by Admiral Sir William Penn, whose son founded Pennsylvania. There is a small museum with a collection of mainly folk material.ou may catch the local Macroom Farmers Market on a Tuesday morning to pick up some great local produce ranging from locally grown fruit and vegetables, cheeses, honey and locally grown plants and some home baked cakes and other delights. Macroom is twinned with the Breton town of Bubry and Marcallo con Casone in Italy.
Macroom (/mə.ˈkruːm/ ; Irish: Maigh Chromtha) is a market town and civil parish in the barony of Muskerry West, County Cork, Ireland. It is situated in a valley of the River Sullane, about halfway between Cork city and Killarney. Macroom was the main base in Cork for the British Auxiliary Division during the 1919–1921 Irish War of Independence. The Irish Republican Army was highly active in the county, especially in the areas around Macroom, Bandon and Dunmanway.
The area around Macroom contains many records from pre-history and is perhaps one of the richest areas in the world in terms of Stone Age megaliths. This standing stone is part of a 3500 year old complex in Knocknakilla between Macroom and Millstreet.acroom was the main base in Cork for the British Auxiliary Division during the 1919–1921 Irish War of Independence. The Irish Republican Army was highly active in the county, especially in the areas around Macroom, Bandon and Dunmanway.