Puerto Ricans (Spanish: Puertorriquenos; Puertorriqueños: taino) taíno boricua are the inhabitants or Citizens Of. puerto rico Puerto Rico is a multi-ethnic nation, home to people of different ethnic and national backgrounds. As a result, some Puerto Ricans do not treat their nationality as an ethnicity but as a citizenship with various ethnicities and national origins comprising the Puerto Rican people.
1 People born in Puerto Rico are also considered native born because they are U.S. citizens by birth. 2  A small number of people of Puerto Rican origin—51,000—were born outside of the U.S. or Puerto Rico and were not U.S. citizens by birth. 3  They are considered foreign born. Puerto Ricans are the second-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States, accounting for 9.5% of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2011. Mexicans, the nation’s largest Hispanic origin group, constituted 33.5 million, or 64.6%, of the
In 1950, about a quarter of a million Puerto Rican natives lived stateside, or in the United States. In March 2012 that figure had risen to about 1.5 million. That is, slightly less than a third of the 5 million Puerto Ricans living stateside were born on the island. Despite new demographic trends, New York City continues to be home to the largest Puerto Rican American community in the United States, with Philadelphia having the second largest community. The portmanteau  Nuyorican  refers to Puerto Ricans and their descendants in and around New York.
Puerto Ricans, either born in the island or in the states, are American citizens. At nine percent of the Latino population in the United States, Puerto Ricans are the second largest Hispanic group nationwide, and comprise 1.5% of the entire population of the United States. Despite new demographic trends, New York City continues to be home to the largest Puerto Rican American community in the United States, with Philadelphia having the second largest community. The portmanteau  Nuyorican  refers to Puerto Ricans and their descendants in and around New York.
For 2009, the American Community Survey estimates give a total of 3,859,026 Puerto Ricans classified as Native Puerto Ricans. It also gives a total of 3,644,515 (91.9%) of the population being born in Puerto Rico and 201,310 (5.1%) born in the United States. Puerto Rico is a multi-ethnic nation, home to people of different ethnic and national backgrounds. As a result, some Puerto Ricans do not treat their nationality as an ethnicity but as a citizenship with various ethnicities and national origins comprising the Puerto Rican people.
Puerto Ricans (Spanish: Puertorriquenos; Puertorriqueños: taino) taíno boricua are the inhabitants or Citizens Of. Puerto Rico puerto rico is-a multi, ethnic nation home to people of different ethnic and. national backgrounds Puerto Rico is a multi-ethnic nation, home to people of different ethnic and national backgrounds. As a result, some Puerto Ricans do not treat their nationality as an ethnicity but as a citizenship with various ethnicities and national origins comprising the Puerto Rican people.
The native Taino population began to dwindle, with the arrival of the Spanish in the 16th century, through disease and Miscegenation. Many Spanish men took Taino and African wives. Under Spanish and American rule, Puerto Rico underwent a whitening process or blanqueamiento. Puerto Rico is a multi-ethnic nation, home to people of different ethnic and national backgrounds. As a result, some Puerto Ricans do not treat their nationality as an ethnicity but as a citizenship with various ethnicities and national origins comprising the Puerto Rican people.
While there are no federally recognized land bases for American Indians/Alaska Natives in Puerto Rico, over 26,000 members of federally recognized American Indian/Alaska Native tribes live in Puerto Rico. 
Close to 20,000 people in Puerto Rico identified themselves as “American Indian” in the 2010 U.S. Census report, a 49 percent increase in the number of island Puerto Ricans to do so. In 2000, the number was 13,336 and there is some agreement over the meaning of this increase, but the conversations are just beginning. Casanova is among many Puerto Ricans in the Taino cultural restoration movement who say the new figures support their efforts but for Professor Jorge Duany, a prominent anthropologist and author based at the University of Puerto Rico, the “American Indian” category is not the most important aspect of the Census report.