A Bank State Branch (often referred to as  BSB ) is the name used in Australia for a bank code, which is a branch identifier. The BSB is normally used in association with the account number system used by each financial institution. The structure of the BSB + account number does not permit for account numbers to be transferable between financial institutions. The BSB identifier consists of six numerals, the first two or three of which is a bank identifier. The BSB identifier is used for processing of paper and electronic transactions, but not in payment card numbering.
A BSB (Bank-State-Branch) is a 6-digit number that identifies banks and branches in Australia. Your account number is unique to you, and how your account is identified. Your account number follows your BSB. To make a funds transfer, you'll need both your recipient's BSB and account number. If you are a Commonwealth Bank customer, there are a few ways to find your BSB and account number: 1  The bank will have notified you of both your BSB and account number after you opened your account. 2  Log in to NetBank and you can find your BSB and account number within the 'My home' page.
Commonwealth bank of Australia routing number or known as a. Bank-State-Branch (often abbreviated as BSB) is a six digit numerical code used within Australia that identifies an individual branch of a financial institution. The format of the code is as follows: First two digits specify the parent financial institution
1 Log in to NetBank and you can find your BSB and account number within the 'My home' page. 2  Use our locator tool to search for the branch, select a branch in the map to find the BSB number; or. 3  Visit any Commonwealth Bank branch. If you are a Commonwealth Bank customer, there are a few ways to find your BSB and account number: 1  The bank will have notified you of both your BSB and account number after you opened your account. 2  Log in to NetBank and you can find your BSB and account number within the 'My home' page.
Best Answer: Your BSB number is 6 digits long, with Commbank they usually start with a 06 for most accounts. The account number is usually 6 to 9 digits long and goes after your BSB. 
A Bank State Branch (BSB) number is the name used in Australia for a bank code, which is a branch identifier. BSB is used as an identifier consisting of a six digit numerical code that identifies an individual branch of an Australian financial institution. The BSB is normally used in association with the bank account number. For international transfers a SWIFT identifier is used in addition to the BSB identifier and a
BSB is a 6 digit numeric code used for identifying a branch of an Australian or New Zealand bank or financial institution. BSB stands for Bank State Branch. 
The Australian BSB (Bank/ State/ Branch) code is a 6-digit code that precedes the actual bank account number which is used to identify individual branch of a financial institution in Australia. 
1 The bank will have notified you of both your BSB and account number after you opened your account. 2  Log in to NetBank and you can find your BSB and account number within the 'My home' page. 3  Use our locator tool to search for the branch, select a branch in the map to find the BSB number; or. If you are a Commonwealth Bank customer, there are a few ways to find your BSB and account number: 1  The bank will have notified you of both your BSB and account number after you opened your account. 2  Log in to NetBank and you can find your BSB and account number within the 'My home' page.