Look up Evelyn in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Evelyn is a name in the English language, where it can be used as a first name or a surname. As a first name, it can refer to persons of either sex, although it is more commonly borne by females. The name originally was used a surname, which derived from Aveline, a feminine Norman French diminutive of the name Ava. Evelyn is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish or Aibhilin aibhilín Éibhleann. eibhleann éibhleann
The name Evelyn is very likely a(n) English variant of the name Eve. See other suggested English baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Eve. The name Evelyn has the following meaning: Life in the Hebrew language. More popular in the form of Eva in the mid-19th century. Eve is actually the French form of the name Eva. Of course, it is more well-known for its appearance, in the Book of Genesis in the Bible, in the story of Adam and Eve.
Notes: Evelyn is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Evelyn is beautiful bird. Evelyn is a result of combing the name Eve with Lynn. Alternate spellings of the name Evelyn include Evelin, Evalyn, and Evelynn. Nicknames for the name Evelyn include Eve, Ev, and Evvy, and Lynn.
Meanings and history of the name Evelyn : | Edit. Evelyn is a traditionally unisex name that is today usually used only for girls. It is pronounced with two syllables, EVE-lyn, in England, or EHV-eh-lyn in the United States. The original form was the Norman French female name Aveline, related to the Germanic Ava/Avia, of unknown meaning. 
Meaning of Evelyn. English name. In English, the name Evelyn means-hazelnut. Other origins for the name Evelyn include-English, Celtic, French, Hebrew, French.The name Evelyn is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-hazelnut. Origin-England. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Evelyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Evelyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Evelyn is also sometimes used as the English translation for the Gaelic name Aibhilin. Aibhilín common nicknames For evelyn Include, Eve, ev And, lynn and it is sometimes misspelled As, Evelin, evalyn Or. Evelynn evelina is A latin form Of evelyn used exclusively for, girls And aveline And ava are still used as names. today
What does Evelyn mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Evelyn is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Evelyn is life. It is also of Latin origin, where its meaning is bird and French origin, where its meaning is little bird, hazelnut. 
American Meaning: The name Evelyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Evelyn is: Life. French Meaning: The name Evelyn is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Evelyn is: From a surname derived from the Old French 'aveline' meaning hazelnut. Famous bearer: Evelyn Waugh.