Best Answer: Yes, although I would say either 150 a week or figure it out hourly. 300 every two weeks is a bit cumbersome. (what the question asks is say you worked at a job 3 years--you started at $10 an hour {starting pay} and when you left you were making $25/hr {ending pay}). Source(s): Diane A · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
Definition. The term “hourly wage” describes a rate an employer agrees to pay a worker per hour worked, such as $12 per hour or $17.50 per hour. The “average” or “mean” is an estimated hourly rate calculated using the varying hourly rates of a group of workers in a specific occupation. Understanding what the average hourly wage is, and how to find it, can help a job seeker or worker improve his career in a variety of ways. You can use it to determine if an hourly rate in a job offer is on par with rates offered by other companies, or to show a supervisor that you deserve a pay raise.
Definition. The starting salary is the amount of money your employer will compensate you during your first days, weeks or months of employment. There is no law regarding how soon after you begin employment that your employer must give you a raise.
RE: when they say start salary and and end salary what do they mean? I&#39;m 22 with no experience.And as for my previous job I&#39;m writing down that I work as a daycare for the summer youth program and I know that I used to get paid 300 ever two weeks is that what they mean should I put that in? (what the question asks is say you worked at a job 3 years--you started at $10 an hour {starting pay} and when you left you were making $25/hr {ending pay}). Source(s): Diane A · 5 years ago. Thumbs up.
Competitive Salary. Some employers advertise that they offer a competitive salary.. This means that they offer a starting salary that is comparable to what other employers in the field offer for the same position. The starting salary does not have to be exactly the same as what the employers' competitors offer as competitive; it just has to be similar. Always research the expected started salary in your field so that you have an idea of what to expect from an employer offering competitive salaries. The starting salary is the amount of money your employer will compensate you during your first days, weeks or months of employment. There is no law regarding how soon after you begin employment that your employer must give you a raise.
Base Pay. An employee's base pay is the fixed compensation received by that worker for fulfilling the roles related to his job. A worker's base pay is generally expressed in terms of what the worker can earn in one year, what he earns in one hour or what is earned over the course of the job, for temporary positions. If employees sign contracts for a $50,000 annual salary, that is what they will earn over the course of the year
I know how salary positions are paid, based off my experience and others I know holding salary positions and I definitely know how hourly positions are paid as well. When I ask her what does hourly salary mean, she usually shrugs or tries to explain it, but clearly she is confused, leaving me confused. So I have this friend who claims she has a job that pays her hourly/salary. She says that she gets paid Salary, but if she works over 40 hours a week than she gets paid overtime for the hourly rate.
Definition. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, when an employee is paid on a salary basis, this means essentially that she receives regular pay on a regular basis, and that this amount doesn't fluctuate in regard to the quality or quantity of work actually performed. For the employer, offering a paid salary means negotiating. Naturally, employees considering accepting a salaried position want to make sure that they're paid as much as they think they'e worth --- and although you may want to compensate them accordingly, you have your bottom line to think about.
Salary. A salary is a form of periodic payment from an employer to an employee, which may be specified in an employment contract. It is contrasted with piece wages, where each job, hour or other unit is paid separately, rather than on a periodic basis. 
For example, you might want to determine the average hourly wage earned by secretaries in a company. The first secretary earned $35 per hour, the second $10 per hour, the third $12 per hour, the fourth $9 per hour and the fifth $11 per hour. Understanding what the average hourly wage is, and how to find it, can help a job seeker or worker improve his career in a variety of ways. You can use it to determine if an hourly rate in a job offer is on par with rates offered by other companies, or to show a supervisor that you deserve a pay raise.