I took a class as part of my major in school called A+ Certification Prep Course and it was easy as hell. I have yet to take the test but I was seriously planning on it really soon. I won a voucher to take it for free at school, which is pretty sweet. I had several class mates take it already and they said it was pretty easy.
As for how to get it, I would strongly suggest that you get both A+ and Security+ before the end of 2010. This is because anybody with a CompTIA cert. obtained in 2011 will have to pay yearly fees to CompTIA to maintain each cert. Plus, you will have to meet continuing education requirements to maintain each cert. Best Answer: The A+ certification is not what it used to be, but that's not necessarily bad. IT USED TO BE: Employers would look favorably upon an A+ certification for many entry level and minimal experience required IT jobs. Some still do.
Certification in A+ is offered by CompTIA. It's a popular and widely accepted certification that certifies a computer technician's expert knowledge of hardware and software. People with little or no experience in technical support can take the tests as a way to gain entry to the field. Enter your name and email address to get a copy of the A+ objectives document. Locate a testing center. The CompTIA A+ exam is given at Pearson VUE testing facilities. Visit the Pearson VUE website or the CompTIA website to find a testing center in your area.
Other A+ Certification FAQ: How long will it take to prepare for A+ certification exams? If you are preparing for A+ exams yourself (self learning), it is likely to take about 2-3 months of preparation (Assuming 3-4 hours of study per day). However, please note that the preparation time greatly depends on the background.
That's right. You may determine how fast you can go. I'm studying myself reading self teaching books to get certified. It's taking me 2 months so far to eat a 1,200 pages A+ CompTia book. I'll get it!. 
It took me 5 years, but I studied off and on during that time frame. If you wanted to dedicate a lot of time to it you could probably pass it in 1-2 months with 2-5 hours of study a week. No lab needed, but having a desktop/laptop to open up might help you remember the components. Also having access to XP, Vista, 7 wouldn't hurt. As far as an online course it depends on the vendor.
Mar 1, 2013 #7. a few years in IT, and took me 2 months to do the self study for both exams including finishing the exams at the end. Certifications: compTIA A+, Apple Certified Technical Coordinator 10.10 (OS X Yosemite, Server and Support). So that's how long it should take you. I say this to illustrate my point: you shouldn't go by how long it takes other people to study for the A+. Everyone is different. Some people learn quickly, and some people learn slowly.
Read more about each test on the CompTIA website. Enter your name and email address to get a copy of the A+ objectives document. Locate a testing center. The CompTIA A+ exam is given at Pearson VUE testing facilities. Visit the Pearson VUE website or the CompTIA website to find a testing center in your area.
The first exam is CompTIA A+ Essentials, exam number 220-801. The CompTIA A+ Essentials examination measures necessary competencies for an entry-level IT professional with the equivalent knowledge of at least 500 hours of hands-on experience in the lab or field. Officially, CompTIA A+ certification is a vendor neutral certification that covers numerous technologies and operating systems from such vendors as Microsoft, Apple Inc. , Novell and some of the Linux distributions. The A+ certification exam was developed in 1993.