This effect is especially well seen in coal miners and city dwellers. Lungs are placed in the thoracic cavity in such a way so that one lies on each side of the mediastinum and thus the two lungs are separated by heard and large blood vessels besides the other structures in mediastinum. Lungs and Conductive passages. Each lung is conical in outline and is covered with visceral pleura. If the thoracic cavity were opened, the lungs would shrink to 1/3 of their original size because of their elastic nature and atmospheric forces. Lungs are pink in color in children but in adults they become mottled and dark because of inhalation of dust particles that become trapped in the phagocytes of the lungs.
The lower segment is further split into three sections, the anterior, middle and posterior mediastinum. The anterior mediastinum sits in front of the pericardium, the fluid-filled pouch that contains the heart and its major blood vessels. The middle mediastinum houses the pericardium and all of its components. The posterior mediastinum lies behind the protective pouch of the heart and runs parallel to the spine. The mediastinum is the located in the thoracic cavity, and includes the thymus gland. The posterior mediastinum protects the trachea, as well as the lungs.
The trachea descends anterior to the esophagus, enters the superior mediastinum, and divides into right and left main bronchi. The trachea is a median structure but, near its lower end, deviates slightly to the right, resulting in the left main bronchus crossing anterior to the esophagus. The esophagus is a median structure that lies first behind the trachea and then behind the left atrium. It begins to deviate to the left below the left main bronchus. In the posterior mediastinum it is related to the vertebral column as a string is related to a bow.
Structure [edit]. The mediastinum lies within the thorax and is enclosed on the right and left by pleurae. It is surrounded by the chest wall in front, the lungs to the sides and the spine at the back. It extends from the sternum in front to the vertebral column behind, and contains all the organs of the thorax except the lungs. It is continuous with the loose connective tissue of the neck. 1 This lower part is subdivided into three regions, all relative to the pericardium-the anterior mediasteinum being in front of the pericardium, the middle mediastinum contains the pericardium and its contents, and the posterior mediastinum being behind the pericardium.
The lungs are the primary organs of respiration in humans and many other animals. Humans have two lungs, a right lung and a left lung. They are situated within the thoracic cavity of the chest. The right lung is bigger than the left lung, as the left lung shares space in the chest with the heart.
The lungs lie either side of the mediastinum, within the thoracic cavity. Each lung is surrounded by a pleural cavity, which is formed by the visceral and parietal pleura. They are suspended from the mediastinum by the lung root – a collection of structures entering and leaving the lungs. The lungs are the major organs of respiration. They are located in the chest, either side of the mediastinum. The function of the lungs is to oxygenate blood. They achieve this by bringing inspired air into close contact with oxygen-poor blood in the pulmonary capillaries.
The chest wall is made up of the ribs and the muscles between the ribs. The lungs are separated by the mediastinum mediastinumThe space in the chest between the lungs, breastbone and spine that contains the heart, great blood vessels, thymus, trachea (windpipe), esophagus and lymph nodes. , which contains the heart and other organs. Below the lungs is the diaphragm, a thin muscle that separates the chest cavity from the abdomen. Each lung is divided into lobes (sections): 1  The left lung has 2 lobes. 2  The heart sits in a groove (cardiac notch) in the lower lobe. 3  The right lung has 3 lobes and is slightly larger than the left lung
The mediastinum (from Medieval Latin mediastinus, midway) is the central compartment of the thoracic cavity surrounded by loose connective tissue, as an undelineated region that contains a group of structures within the thorax. 1 This lower part is subdivided into three regions, all relative to the pericardium-the anterior mediasteinum being in front of the pericardium, the middle mediastinum contains the pericardium and its contents, and the posterior mediastinum being behind the pericardium.