Kubler-Ross's 5 Stages. The first stage in the Kubler-Ross model is denial. During this stage, the initial (and most common) emotional response to the knowledge of impending death is denial. People in this stage say, 'No, not me. It can't be!' According to Kubler-Ross, denial serves as a defense mechanism. The final stage is acceptance. Kubler-Ross described this time period as a period of calm and peace. If the dying person was able to work through previous emotional stages, they may be at a point of reflectance and embrace the end of their battle.
The stages of mourning and grief are universal and are experienced by people from all walks of life. Mourning occurs in response to an individual’s own terminal illness, the loss of a close relationship, or to the death of a valued being, human or animal. 5. Reaching this stage of mourning is a gift not afforded to everyone. Death may be sudden and unexpected or we may never see beyond our anger or denial. It is not necessarily a mark of bravery to resist the inevitable and to deny ourselves the opportunity to make our peace.
In summary, Kubler-Ross and colleagues developed a five stage model of death and dying. These stages have different emotional responses that people go through in response to the knowledge of death. They are commonly referred to by an acronym of DABDA and are denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. The final stage is acceptance. Kubler-Ross described this time period as a period of calm and peace. If the dying person was able to work through previous emotional stages, they may be at a point of reflectance and embrace the end of their battle.
(3) Coping with death anxiety. 1  Elizabeth Kuber-Ross (1969) proposes five stages of coping: Denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. 2  Most dying people do go through these stages, but they tend to move in and out of the various stages in no particular order. 1
Grieving often progresses through five emotional stages: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. Preparing for death often means finishing a life’s work, setting things right with family and friends, and making peace with the inevitable. 
Kubler-Ross's Stages. Probably the most famous formulation of the stages of grief was developed by Dr. Elizabeth Kubler-Ross in her book On Death and Dying. Dr. Kubler-Ross actually wrote about the stages that dying people tend to go through as they come to terms with the realization that they will soon be dead.
The five stages do not necessarily occur in any specific order. We often move between stages before achieving a more peaceful acceptance of death. Many of us are not afforded the luxury of time required to achieve this final stage of grief. The death of your loved one might inspire you to evaluate your own feelings of mortality. Throughout each stage, a common thread of hope emerges: As long as there is life, there is hope. As long as there is hope, there is life. Many people do not experience the stages in the order listed below, which is okay. 5. Reaching this stage of mourning is a gift not afforded to everyone. Death may be sudden and unexpected or we may never see beyond our anger or denial. It is not necessarily a mark of bravery to resist the inevitable and to deny ourselves the opportunity to make our peace.
Elisabeth Kubler-Ross was a groundbreaking psychiatrist who ignited public conversation about death in a time when the subject was largely taboo. Her 1969 book, On Death and Dying, introduced the world to the five stages of grief: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. 
Our grief is as individual as our lives. The five stages, denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance are a part of the framework that makes up our learning to live with the one we lost. They are tools to help us frame and identify what we may be feeling. But they are not stops on some linear timeline in grief. DENIAL Denial is the first of the five stages of grief. It helps us to survive the loss. In this stage, the world becomes meaningless and overwhelming. Life makes no sense. We are in a state of shock and denial.
The stages of grief were developed by Elisabeth Kubler-Ross over 30 years ago, as she listened to and observed people living with terminal diagnoses. Since the publication of her book On Death and Dying, the stages of grief, as they are known, have become the gauge by which all grief is measured. Denial, anger, bargaining, depression, acceptance. I bet you know what the stages are, even if you don't think of yourself as much of a psychology-type person. The stages are taught in introductory college courses, and were taught back when I was in hospice training.