Dialysis Technician Salary. A dialysis technician, who can also be referred to as a hemodialysis technician, a renal dialysis technician, or nephrology technician, can expect to earn between $25,000 and $40,000 per year.
1. Job Outlook. Average. Dialysis technicians perform a number of roles related to dialysis treatment, from monitoring and maintaining dialysis equipment to acting as primary care giver for patients who are undergoing dialysis treatment. 1  Salary. 2  Job Description. 3  Education. 4  Certification & Licensing. 5  Job Outlook. A dialysis technician, who can also be referred to as a hemodialysis technician, a renal dialysis technician, or nephrology technician, can expect to earn between $25,000 and $40,000 per year.
'Intangible' Responsibilties. The job of the dialysis technician is very hands-on, and the technician can spend time with the patient. This makes the technician an important part of a patient's care team, which includes doctors and nurses. 
There are a number of technical aspects that come with the job description of a dialysis technician. This means that if you love working with your hands to improve the lot of others, then it shouldn’t be difficult for your to find great job satisfaction working as a dialysis technician. The job market is very strong. You will also have to educate patients about the dialysis procedure so that they feel comfortable allowing you to perform it. Therefore, the best answer to “how difficult is a dialysis technician job” is that this job is relatively easy.
The other job description of a dialysis technician revolves around screening and taking care of patients as they undergo treatment. During this period, you will need to report the actual condition of your patient to the physician or supervising nurse. You will also have to educate patients about the dialysis procedure so that they feel comfortable allowing you to perform it. Therefore, the best answer to “how difficult is a dialysis technician job” is that this job is relatively easy.
Less experienced dialysis techs can expect to earn a salary in the $25,000 to $30,000 range while senior technicians can expect to earn around $40,000 per annum. The median salary for this field is just over $33,000. A dialysis technician, who can also be referred to as a hemodialysis technician, a renal dialysis technician, or nephrology technician, can expect to earn between $25,000 and $40,000 per year.
Patient Care Tech Careers. Work with the clinical care team to provide safe, comfortable and hygienic dialysis treatments for patients. As a dialysis Patient Care Technician (PCT) you'll play an important role at DaVita-and in the lives of patients and their families. As a part of our professional team of clinicians, you will be responsible for measuring and recording stats, patient observations, machine set up and more. Our dialysis Patient Care Technicians work under the supervision of nephrology nurses to provide safe, comfortable and hygienic dialysis treatments for patients. They are often the teammates who have the most “one on one” time with patients in the facility
Patient Care Tech. Renal Care is looking for a Patient Care Technician (PCT) for our dialysis facility. The Patient Care Technician (PCT) provides hemodialysis therapies to... 3 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all U.S. Renal Care jobs in Defiance, OH-Defiance jobs. 2  Salary Search: Patient Care Tech salaries in Defiance, OH. One year experience as a certified nursing assistant, dialysis technician or clinical technician involving patient care and monitoring, or.... 6 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all The University of Iowa jobs in Iowa City, IA-Iowa City jobs. 2  Salary Search: Hemodialysis Technician salaries in Iowa City, IA.
Dialysis Patient Care Technician-Willing to Train! Our dialysis Patient Care Technicians work under the supervision of nephrology nurses to provide safe, comfortable, and hygienic dialysis treatment for patients... 1 hour ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Davita jobs in Visalia, CA-Visalia jobs. Hemodialysis Technician sets-ups and operates the hemodialysis machines and related equipment to provide limited chronic dialysis treatment for the ESRD patient...