The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures how much alkaline phosphatase you have in your blood. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found throughout your body. But it is mainly in your liver, bone, kidney, and digestive tract. 
An alkaline phosphatase level test (ALP test) measures the amount of alkaline phosphatase enzyme in your bloodstream. The test requires a simple blood draw and is often a routine part of other blood tests. Abnormal levels of ALP in your blood most often indicate a problem with your liver and/or bones. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in your bloodstream. ALP helps break down proteins in the body and exists in different forms, depending on where it originates. It is mostly produced in your liver, but some is also made in your bones, intestines, and kidneys. In pregnant women, ALP is made in the placenta.
An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP, ALKP, ALPase, Alk Phos) (EC 3.1.3.1) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids. The process of removing the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation. 
The alkaline phosphatase test (ALP) is used to help detect liver disease or bone disorders. 1  In conditions affecting the liver, damaged liver cells release increased amounts of ALP into the blood. 2  Any condition that affects bone growth or causes increased activity of bone cells can affect ALP levels in the blood. An ALP test may be ordered as part of routine laboratory testing, often with a group of other tests called a liver panel. It is also usually ordered along with several other tests when a person has symptoms of a liver or bone disorder.
ALKALINE PHOSPHATASE. Alkaline Phosphatases are a group of enzymes found primarily the liver (isoenzyme ALP-1) and bone (isoenzyme ALP-2). There are also small amounts produced by cells lining the intestines (isoenzyme ALP-3), the placenta, and the kidney (in the proximal convoluted tubules). What is measured in the blood is the total amount of alkaline phosphatases released from these tissues into the blood. As the name implies, this enzyme works best at an alkaline pH (a pH of 10), and thus the enzyme itself is inactive in the blood.
Abstract. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) measurement is one of the most widely used and simple biochemical tests, and an extremely useful marker of bone and liver disease. Isolated elevation usually suggests bone disease, and persistent elevation in an adult requires investigation. Key Points. 1  Total serum ALP should be measured in a patient who has symptoms of cholestatic liver disease, bone pain, low bone mineral density (with or without fractures), or general debility. 2  An isolated raised serum ALP level is usually due to increased osteoblast activity.
1 In conditions affecting the liver, damaged liver cells release increased amounts of ALP into the blood. 2  This test is often used to detect blocked bile ducts because ALP is especially high in the edges of cells that join to form bile ducts. An ALP test may be ordered as part of routine laboratory testing, often with a group of other tests called a liver panel. It is also usually ordered along with several other tests when a person has symptoms of a liver or bone disorder.
Alkaline Phosphatase. Guide. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones