The branches and ATMs of SunTrust are located mainly in Southern states of the U.S. including Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, South Carolina, District of Columbia, North Carolina and Maryland. If you are looking for SunTrust routing number in Richmond VA then it is 061000104. The bank also offers a large number of jobs and career opportunities in the branches located in Richmond. Those who are looking for the whereabouts of the SunTrust Richmond branch locations can use the ATM/branch locator tool made available at the bank website.
Finding SunTrust Bank Richmond VA branches has never been so easier. Now you can simply visit the official website of the bank and use the ATM/Branch Locator to find the nearest branch locations of the bank in various regions of Richmond, Virginia. SunTrust Bank is a leading financial services firm operating a large network of about 1,678 branches and 2,828 ATMs. The bank also offers a large number of jobs and career opportunities in the branches located in Richmond. Those who are looking for the whereabouts of the SunTrust Richmond branch locations can use the ATM/branch locator tool made available at the bank website.
Routing numbers differ for checking and savings accounts, prepaid cards, IRAs, lines of credit, and wire transfers. All banks usually have separate routing numbers for each of the states in the US. You can look for the routing number on the check (cheque book) issued by your bank or can search this website for free. Routing numbers are also known as banking routing numbers, routing transit numbers, RTNs, ABA numbers, and sometimes SWIFT codes (although these are quite different from routing numbers as SWIFT codes are solely used for international wire transfers while routing numbers are used for domestic transfers).
Suntrust routing number is a nine digit number used to identify bank transfers. Routing numbers will be different based on the account branch. It is based on the bank account origin by state and region. The routing number on check is available for each branch in the table below. In order to find the check routing number of the branch you are looking for, click on the Details link next to the branch name. Additionally, the list of bank routing numbers is visible on this page for easier access
Suntrust Bank on 14 N Laburnum Ave in Richmond, VA. Welcome to Suntrust Bank (Investment Services-B2B Banks) on 14 N Laburnum Ave in Richmond, Virginia. This bank is listed on Bank Map under Banks-Investment Services-B2B Banks. You can reach us on phone number (800) 786-8787, fax number or email address. Our office is located on 14 N Laburnum Ave, Richmond, VA. 
EVB (26). Bank Routing Number. A routing number is a 9 digit code for identifying a financial institution for the purpose of routing of checks (cheques), fund transfers, direct deposits, e-payments, online payments, and other payments to the correct bank branch. Routing numbers differ for checking and savings accounts, prepaid cards, IRAs, lines of credit, and wire transfers. All banks usually have separate routing numbers for each of the states in the US. You can look for the routing number on the check (cheque book) issued by your bank or can search this website for free.
Suntrust Bank Regency Branch. 1500 N Parham Road, Richmond, VA 23229. Get Directions. {{branch.address + ', '}}{{branch.city}}{{', ' + branch.state_iso}}{{' ' + branch.zip}} Get Directions Get Directions. Lobby Hours {{day.day | limitTo:3 | uppercase}} not available. {{ 1 day.day | limitTo:3 | uppercase}}. 
Bank Routing Number. A routing number is a 9 digit code for identifying a financial institution for the purpose of routing of checks (cheques), fund transfers, direct deposits, e-payments, online payments, and other payments to the correct bank branch. Routing numbers are also known as banking routing numbers, routing transit numbers, RTNs, ABA numbers, and sometimes SWIFT codes (although these are quite different from routing numbers as SWIFT codes are solely used for international wire transfers while routing numbers are used for domestic transfers).