The Dermis. The dermis is located beneath the epidermis and is the thickest of the three layers of the skin (1.5 to 4 mm thick), making up approximately 90 percent of the thickness of the skin. The main functions of the dermis are to regulate temperature and to supply the epidermis with nutrient-saturated blood
The dermis is the layer of tissue under the epidermis. The dermis  is also called the subcutaneous tissue. The dermis is one of the three layers of the skin. Skin is the on … ly other answer, and it is considered the largest organ of the human body. The dermis is the second layer of the skin, this is where all of the important stuff is like the nerve endings, sweat glands, hair follicles, etc. The dermis is the second lay … er of the skin. The second layer of skin is where nerve endings, sweat glands, and hair follicles are.
The skin consists of three main layers epidermis, dermis and subcutis. Each layer has its specific structure and functions. Epidermis. This layer is seen on the surface of the skin. It is made up of cells called keratinocytes, which are stacked on top of each other, forming different sub-layers. The dermis supplies the avascular epidermis with nutrients by means of its vascular network. It contains sense organs for touch, pressure, pain and temperature (Meissner s corpuscles, Pacinian corpuscles, free nerve endings), as well as blood vessels, nerve fibres, sebaceous and sweat glands and hair follicles.
Dermis: The lower or inner layer of the two main layers of cells that make up the skin.The dermis contains blood vessels, lymph vessels, hair follicles, and glands that produce sweat, which helps regulate body temperature, and sebum, an oily substance that helps keep the skin from drying out. 
Epidermis is the top layer of skin and the one you can actually see. The dermis is the layer that lies underneath the epidermis, and it is composed entirely of living cells. T … he most important function of dermis is respiration. The various glands such as the oil and sweat glands originate in the lower dermis. From here, they rise to the surface of the skin to eliminate waste matter. The dermis is the second layer of the skin, this is where all of the important stuff is like the nerve endings, sweat glands, hair follicles, etc. The dermis is the second lay … er of the skin. The second layer of skin is where nerve endings, sweat glands, and hair follicles are.
The dermis consists mostly of connective tissue and is much thicker than the epidermis. It is responsible for the skin's pliability and mechanical resistance and is also involved in the regulation of the body temperature. The dermis supplies the avascular epidermis with nutrients by means of its vascular network. It contains sense organs for touch, pressure, pain and temperature (Meissner s corpuscles, Pacinian corpuscles, free nerve endings), as well as blood vessels, nerve fibres, sebaceous and sweat glands and hair follicles.
A graphic representation of the interface between skin epithelium and the underlying connective tissue the reticular dermis. The dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which it makes up the cutis) and subcutaneous tissues, that consists of connective tissue and cushions the body from stress and strain. Apart from these cells, the dermis is also composed of matrix components such as collagen (which provides strength), elastin (which provides elasticity), and extrafibrillar matrix, an extracellular gel-like substance primarily composed of glycosaminoglycans (most notably hyaluronan), proteoglycans, and glycoproteins.
The Epidermis. The epidermis is the outermost layer of the skin, and protects the body from the environment. The thickness of the epidermis varies in different types of skin; it is only .05 mm thick on the eyelids, and is 1.5 mm thick on the palms and the soles of the feet. The dermis is located beneath the epidermis and is the thickest of the three layers of the skin (1.5 to 4 mm thick), making up approximately 90 percent of the thickness of the skin. The main functions of the dermis are to regulate temperature and to supply the epidermis with nutrient-saturated blood
The dermis is tightly connected to the epidermis through a basement membrane. Structural components of the dermis are collagen, elastic fibers, and extrafibrillar matrix. It also contains Mechanoreceptors that provide the sense of touch and thermoreceptors that provide the sense of heat. Apart from these cells, the dermis is also composed of matrix components such as collagen (which provides strength), elastin (which provides elasticity), and extrafibrillar matrix, an extracellular gel-like substance primarily composed of glycosaminoglycans (most notably hyaluronan), proteoglycans, and glycoproteins.