The normal incubation period is 17 days regardless of outside temperature. It takes all-most two weeks or more, it depends.....if temp is adequate means 35-37 degree then it will hatch in almost two weeks otherwise it will take more time. In case of abandon eggs by their parents himself means that egg is dead otherwise u can also help them in hatch by maintaining the humidity and temperature. roughly 21 days to hatch after 14 days hold egg up and if its see throung your egg will not hatch u have a dud if its filled aka a dark no see through color then u might … have a sucsess   good luck !! 3 people found this useful.
The female may sit on the nest a day or two before the first egg is laid. Generally 2 white eggs are laid. Both the male and female will incubate the eggs although the female does the incubation during the night. Incubation last for about 18 days and the young will leave the nest in 25 to 29 days after hatching. P.s.
How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days.
Once the simple nest is built, the female lays an egg and then another a day or so later. The incubation period for common pigeons is 17 to 19 days. The female sits on the egg from late afternoon through the night until about 10AM. The male then takes over and does the day shift. Once the eggs hatch, both parents feed the young squabs. Best Answer: 30 days I love pigeons, I have hundreds of them. First egg hatches after 30 days then the second egg follows next day. When both chicks comes out, the first one gets more feed from the parents as he is big and he reaches first.
Report Abuse. Hi, Pigeons lay two white egg in a clutch, each egg takes 18 days to hatch. The parents will start to incubate the first egg for two days, then she'll lay the second egg. This means the first egg will always hatch two days before the other. 
Some Very Basic Pigeon Facts. Pigeons mate for life and rear their broods together, although if one dies the other will take a new mate. Once the simple nest is built, the female lays an egg and then another a day or so later. The incubation period for common pigeons is 17 to 19 days. The female sits on the egg from late afternoon through the night until about 10AM. The male then takes over and does the day shift. 
How long does it take a pigeon egg to hatch? The normal incubation period is 17 days regardless of outside  temperature. It takes all-most two weeks or more, it depends.....if  temp is adequate means 35-37 degree then … it will hatch in almost  two weeks otherwise it will take more time. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. roughly 21 days to hatch after 14 days hold egg up and if its see throung your egg will not hatch u have a dud if its filled aka a dark no see through color then u might … have a sucsess   good luck !! 3 people
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It takes normally 18 days from the last egg laid before they hatch,then a further 3-4 weeks before they fly the nest. So they could be getting near their hatch date. We&#39;ve noticed her sitting on those eggs for last 15 days, not sure if she&#39;s been there before that. And once thery&#39;re born, how long do they have to live in the nest before they can... Source(s): long pigeon egg hatch: https://biturl.im/YefsE. Welch · 2 months ago.