Ethan Frome by Wharton, Edith View in context. I meant to have been at Ethan Crawford's to-night; but a pedestrian lingers along such a road as this. From Twice Told Tales by Hawthorne, Nathaniel View in context. I meant to have been at Ethan Crawford's tonight; but a pedestrian lingers along such a road as this. 
Winter as a Stifling Force. Ethan Frome, the novel’s protagonist, is described by an old man as having “been in Starkfield too many winters.” As the story progresses, the reader, and the narrator, begin to understand more deeply the meaning of this statement. Mattie’s Red Scarf and Red Ribbon. In the two key scenes when Mattie and Ethan are alone together—outside the church after the dance and in the Frome house on the evening of Zeena’s absence—Wharton emphasizes that Mattie wears red.
It ranked 6744 in popular baby names for girls with 18 occurrences. View the Ethan Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ethan has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ethan to other names. Variants of the name Ethan include Ethen. The names Eitan, Etan are all forms of Ethan. 
ETHAN. e'-than ('ethan, firm, enduring; Gaithan): (1) A wise man with whom Solomon is compared (1 Kings 4:31). Called there Ethan the Ezrahite, to whom the title of Psalms 89 ascribes the authorship of that poem. (2) A son of Kishi, or Kishaiah, of the Merari branch of the Levites, and, along with Heman and Asaph, placed by David over the service of song (1 Chronicles 6:44; 15:17,19). See JEDUTHU
In Hebrew, the name Ethan means-Strong. Constancy. Famous bearer: Ethan Allen, soldier in the American War of IndependenceStrong.. Other origins for the name Ethan include-Hebrew, Biblical.The name Ethan is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Strong. Constancy. 
Notes: Ethan is a name with Hebrew origins. The meaning of Ethan is firm/strong. Alternate spellings include Ethen, Ethyn, Eitan, and Eytan. Common nicknames include Eeth, Eethie and Eytie/Eddie. Ethan is an extremely popular name in the United States as well as abroad, especially Australia and Israel. 
Ethen's name origin is Hebrew, and the meaning of Ethen is firmness, long-lived. Ethen is an alternate form of Ethan (Hebrew): from Eitan. Etten is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Eaethen, Ethenea, Etheneu. 
Ethan is a very popular first name for males (#528 out of 1220, Top 43%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Ethan for boys. Ethan reached its highest position of #2 in the U.S. in the year 2010, and is at #6 currently. Ethan /eth-an/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced EE-than. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Ethan is firmness, long-lived. From Eitan. Biblical: Ethan the Ezrahite was a man noted for his wisdom. American patriot Ethan Allen was a famous Revolutionary War leader. Actor Ethan Hawke
Ethan Name Meaning. The meaning of Ethan is “Firm, strong, impetuous”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. 