Leopard Geckos are relatively large for Geckos, hatchlings tend to be on average 6.5 to 8.4 cm and will weigh about 3 grams while adults tend to be around 20.5cm to 27.5 weighing around 45 to 60 grams. The skin of a leopard gecko is very durable which provides protection from the rough terrains they are found in. 
The gecko is a small to medium species of lizard that is found in the more temperate and tropical regions of the world. Geckos are more commonly found around the Equator and in the Southern Hemisphere although a few species of gecko are found north of the Equator in warmer regions. Geckos primarily eat insects and worms, but some of the larger species of gecko hunt small birds, reptiles and even small mammals such as mice. Some species of gecko are also known to eat a small amount of plant matter such as moss.
They use chirping sounds in social interactions with other geckos. They are the most species-rich group of lizards, with about 1,500 different species worldwide. The New Latin gekko and English gecko stem from the Indonesian-Malay gēkoq, which is imitative of the sound the animals make. Geckos are lizards belonging to the infraorder Gekkota, found in warm climates throughout the world. They range from 1.6 to 60 cm. Most geckos cannot blink, but they often lick their eyes to keep them clean and moist.
Leopard geckos are a terrestrial species that lack lamellae, which is the padding on the bottom of certain species that allows them the ability to climb vertical surfaces. Instead, leopard geckos are equipped with small sharp nails extending from the end of each digit. The Leopard Gecko Characteristics-Anatomy is what helps define this spectacular animal and helps set it apart from the other geckos. In this section we will explore the defining leopard gecko characteristics and learn more about their physical anatomy
An important characteristic of the tokay gecko is its ability to cast off its tail in defense and regenerate a new one. The part of the tail that has been cast off continues to move violently for several minutes until it slows down and stops, thus giving the gecko time to escape. 
Tail. Another characteristic of the leopard geckos their long, plump tail. Marked with vibrant colors, the tail is undoubtedly one of the focal points that represent the leos beauty. The tail however serves a very important function. A leopard geckos tail is a storage unit for fat. The Leopard Gecko Characteristics-Anatomy is what helps define this spectacular animal and helps set it apart from the other geckos. In this section we will explore the defining leopard gecko characteristics and learn more about their physical anatomy
Geckos (Gekkonidae) are a group of lizards that include about 930 species. Among the more common species of geckos are the tokay gecko, crested gecko, gargoyle gecko, dwarf gecko, leopard gecko, mediterranean gecko, western banded gecko, and the New Caledonian gecko. Most geckos are nocturnal hunters that feed on insects, spiders and other small invertebrates. The tokay gecko is a large species whose diet includes heftier prey such as small lizards, birds and mammals.
Characteristics of Leopard Geckos. Eublepharis macularius (Leopard gecko). This reptile belongs to the class Reptilia, Squamata order, suborder Sauria, Gekkonidae family, Eublepharinae subfamily, genus and species Eublepharis macularius Eublepharis. 