A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely. Mutations in the structure of genes can be classified as: , 1  such as those affecting a small gene in one or a few nucleotides, including: 2  Point mutations, often caused by chemicals or malfunction of DNA replication, exchange a single nucleotide for another. 3  These changes are classified as transitions or transversions.
This type of mutation is a change in one DNA base pair that results in the substitution of one amino acid for another in the protein made by a gene. Frameshift mutation (illustration). This type of mutation occurs when the addition or loss of DNA bases changes a gene’s reading frame. A reading frame consists of groups of 3 bases that each code for one amino acid.
A gene mutation is defined as the permanent changes in the structure of the gene results in a mutation. Gene mutations vary from a small portion of the DNA molecule to a large part of chromosome. There are two types of mutations mainly: 1) Hereditary mutations:- This kind of gene mutations are hereditary that is they pass from parents to the off spring. These mutations are present in the egg or sperm of an individual and pass to the next generation. 
Of the three types of point mutations the most harmful are insertions and deletions. They result in what is known as a frameshift mutation. When a nucleotide base is either inserted or deleted it disrupts the amino acids coded for from the site of the mutation on to the end of the gene. 
Altering nucleotide sequences most often results in nonfunctioning proteins. Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation. Also called a base-pair substitution, this type of mutation changes a single nucleotide base pair. 1 Silent Mutation: Although a change in the DNA sequence occurs, this type of mutation does not change the protein that is to be produced. 2  This is because multiple genetic codons can encode for the same amino acid. 3  Amino acids are coded for by three nucleotide sets called codons.
Insertions and deletions are two other types of mutations that can affect cells at the gene level. An insertion mutation occurs when an extra nucleotide is added to the DNA strand during replication. 
The two types of single gene mutations are point mutation, where a single point in the DNA sequence is affected, and FRAMESHIFT MUTATION, where a single gene or nitrogen base … is deleted or added from the mRNA (messenger RNA) sequence causing a shift in the reading frame of the genetic message. Insertion-when a nucleotide gets added to the DNA strand   2. Substitution-when a nucleotide gets replaced on the DNA strand   3. Deletion-when a nucleotide gets … deleted from the DNA strand   Those are all of the DNA mutation types.
The two types of single gene mutations are point mutation, where a single point in the DNA sequence is affected, and FRAMESHIFT MUTATION, where a single gene or nitrogen base is deleted or added from the mRNA (messenger RNA) sequence causing a shift in the reading frame of the genetic message. 
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. Mutations in the structure of genes can be classified as: , 1  such as those affecting a small gene in one or a few nucleotides, including: 2  Point mutations, often caused by chemicals or malfunction of DNA replication, exchange a single nucleotide for another. 3  These changes are classified as transitions or transversions.