1 Sensory neurons conduct action potentials to the spinal cord. 2  Sensory neurons synapse with excitatory interneurons that synapse with motor neurons. 3  Excitation of the motor neurons results in contraction of the flexor muscles and withdrawal of the limb from the painful stimulus. 1 sensory neurons conduct action potential to the spinal cord. 2  Sensory neurons synapse directly with motor neurons. 3  Motor neurons conduct action potentials to the muscle,causing it to contract and resist being stretched.
The sensory nervous system is a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information. A sensory system consists of sensory receptors, neural pathways, and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception. The initialization of sensation stems from the response of a specific receptor to a physical stimulus. The receptors which react to the stimulus and initiate the process of sensation are commonly characterized in four distinct categories: chemoreceptors, photoreceptors, mechanoreceptors, and thermoreceptors.
Typically, a stimulus causes ionic changes in the receptor neuron's dendrites, which lead to the formation of action potentials in the receptor neurons. These action potentials travel the sensory neuron, which connects to a motor neuron (and possibly an ascending neuron) in the spinal cord. The nervous system has many types of sensory neurons. Nerve endings on one end of each neuron are encased in a special structure to sense a specific stimulus. 1  Chemoreceptors sense chemicals. 2  The olfactory bulb that monitors your sense of smell has chemoreceptors that sense odors (chemicals in the air).
1 SENSORY PROCESSING. 2  Sensory processing begins with the transformation of stimulus energy into graded potentials and then into action potentials in nerve fibers. 3  Information carried in a sensory system may or may not lead to a conscious awareness of the stimulus. RECEPTORS Receptors translate information from the external world and internal environment into graded potentials, which then generate action potentials.
Stimulus modality, also called sensory modality, is one aspect of a stimulus or what we perceive after a stimulus. For example the temperature modality is registered after heat or cold stimulate a receptor. Some sensory modalities include: light, sound, temperature, taste, pressure, smell. The type and location of the sensory receptor activated by the stimulus plays the primary role in coding the sensation. The cutaneous somatosensory system detects changes in temperature. The perception begins when thermal stimuli from a homeostatic set-point excite temperature specific sensory nerves in the skin. Then with the help of sensing range, specific thermosensory fibers respond to warmth and to cold.
Sensory systems code for four aspects of a stimulus; type (modality), intensity, location, and duration. The initialization of sensation stems from the response of a specific receptor to a physical stimulus. The receptors which react to the stimulus and initiate the process of sensation are commonly characterized in four distinct categories: chemoreceptors, photoreceptors, mechanoreceptors, and thermoreceptors.
Reflex Arc. 1  A sensory receptor detects a stimulus. 2  A sensory neuron conducts action potentials through the spinal nerve and dorsal root to spinal cord. 3  in the spinal cord,the sensory neuron synapses with an interneuron. 4  The interneuron synapses with motor neuron. 1 sensory neurons conduct action potential to the spinal cord. 2  Sensory neurons synapse directly with motor neurons. 3  Motor neurons conduct action potentials to the muscle,causing it to contract and resist being stretched.
Adaptation is a decrease in the size of the receptor potential with a constant stimulus. Slowly adapting or tonic receptors show little adaptation in response to a prolonged stimulus. Rapidly adapting or phasic receptors adapt quickly. These receptors detect changes in stimuli intensity. The specific form of energy of a stimulus is its modality. According to the law of specific nerve energies sensory receptors are designed to respond best to specific modalities. The modality to which the receptor responds to best is the adequate stimulus.
1 Sensory processing begins with the transformation of stimulus energy into graded potentials and then into action potentials in nerve fibers. 2  Information carried in a sensory system may or may not lead to a conscious awareness of the stimulus. RECEPTORS Receptors translate information from the external world and internal environment into graded potentials, which then generate action potentials.
1 A sensory receptor detects a stimulus. 2  A sensory neuron conducts action potentials through the spinal nerve and dorsal root to spinal cord. 3  in the spinal cord,the sensory neuron synapses with an interneuron. 4  The interneuron synapses with motor neuron. 1 sensory neurons conduct action potential to the spinal cord. 2  Sensory neurons synapse directly with motor neurons. 3  Motor neurons conduct action potentials to the muscle,causing it to contract and resist being stretched.