Sulfur itself is held mainly in the muscles, skin, bones, nails and hair. MSM provides the essential sulfur necessary for a number of body compounds. Sulfur is an essential component of various compounds and processes in the body, and is necessary for the synthesis of collagen, immunoglobulin and enzymes. MSM is an especially versatile supplement, and has been used for a variety of applications, such as: anti-inflammatory effects and to reduce acidity in the body, treat gastrointestinal disorders and constipation, increase circulation and promote connective tissue health.
Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) is an organosulfur compound with the formula (CH 3) 2 SO 2. It is also known by several other names including DMSO2, methyl sulfone, and dimethyl sulfone. This colorless solid features the sulfonyl functional group and is considered relatively inert chemically. MSM and the corresponding sulfoxide dimethyl sulfoxide ((CH 3) 2 SO, DMSO) have different physical properties. MSM is a white crystalline solid at STP (m.p.
For More Information See: Research. MSM (methyl-sufonyl-methane), a stable metabolite of DMSO, is a special biological sulfur found in all plants, soils, fruits, vegetables, fish, poultry, eggs, meats and milk. It is organic sulfur, a naturally occurring compound in the human body. MSM is an especially versatile supplement, and has been used for a variety of applications, such as: anti-inflammatory effects and to reduce acidity in the body, treat gastrointestinal disorders and constipation, increase circulation and promote connective tissue health.
MSM is an abbreviation of methylsulfonylmethane, an organic form of sulfur. The chemical formula of MSM is CH3SO2CH3. It is the form in which sulfur appears in nature in all living organisms, and in which it is biologically active. MSM is an odorless, white, crystalline powder that is highly soluble in hot water and in a wide range of organic solvents (1).
1 Osteoarthritis. 2  Taking MSM by mouth seems to slightly reduce some symptoms of arthritis of the knee, such as pain and joint movement. 3  But the changes seem to be small, and it might not reduce other symptoms such as stiffness. 4  Rosacea. There isn't much published scientific research to support its use. MSM is also used for relief of allergies, chronic constipation, sour stomach, ulcers, a bowel disease called diverticulosis, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), mood elevation, obesity, poor circulation, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol.
MSM is POSSIBLY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth for 3 months or less when applied to the skin in combination with other ingredients, such as silymarin or hyaluronic acid, and tea tree oil for up to 20 days. There isn't much published scientific research to support its use. MSM is also used for relief of allergies, chronic constipation, sour stomach, ulcers, a bowel disease called diverticulosis, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), mood elevation, obesity, poor circulation, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol.
MSM stands for methyl-sulfonyl-methane, which is sulfur. MSM is an organic white sulfur powder, which comes from the ocean and is water soluble. IT IS A FOOD found in plants, meats, dairy products and vegetation. It is the third largest nutrient found in your body. I started with 1 tsp of MSM 2 times a day. I began to notice a significant reduction in the stiffness and aching of my hips and back within about 2 weeks. While watching TV late one night, I realized that my back did not have the usual ache – my back always had a chronic mild ache – and the pain was completely gone.
What results is a natural and effective reduction in unwanted weight. How to use MSM: MSM can be purchased in powder form or in supplement capsules. For best results using the MSM powder, added it to your water along with a botanical source of vitamin C like Camu Camu Berry or lemon juice. 
My Personal Dosing. I personally use 1 teaspoon of MSM powder 2 or 3x a day PLUS 1/4th teaspoon PURE Vitamin C Powder. The PURE Vitamin C (not synthetic/ascorbic acid) enhances the absorption and effectiveness of the MSM and is a wonderful antioxidant. I started with 1 tsp of MSM 2 times a day. I began to notice a significant reduction in the stiffness and aching of my hips and back within about 2 weeks. While watching TV late one night, I realized that my back did not have the usual ache – my back always had a chronic mild ache – and the pain was completely gone.