Aramaic (Arāmāyā, Classical Syriac: ܐܪܡܝܐ) is a family of languages or dialects belonging to the Semitic family. More specifically, it is part of the Northwest Semitic subfamily, which also includes Canaanite languages such as Hebrew and Phoenician. Aramaic is often spoken of as a single language. However, it is in reality a group of related languages, rather than a single monolithic language—something which it has never been. Some Aramaic languages differ more from each other than the Romance languages do among themselves.
Modern Aramaic that is spoken today, known as Neo-Aramaic, represents a number of Aramaic languages that have splintered off and evolved separately in small alcoves and villages throughout the Middle East. Syriac was the Aramaic dialect that was spoken around Edessa. This became the language i … n which Christianity was preached east of the Roman empire. Syriac is Aramaic, but not all Aramaic is Syriac. Many words in Syriac have subtle differences from the Aramaic root, but the word remains the same.
Bryan Denton for The New York Times. Aramaic is still spoken in Malula, a cliffside village in southwestern Syria. Elias Khoury, top right, whose granddaughter, Katya, below left, studies Aramaic in the village, said a government policy of Arabization discouraged the language there during his childhood. 
Aramaic, the language of Jesus Christ, has survived for centuries and is still spoken in one place on Earth: the village of Maaloula in Syria, about 60 kilometres northeast of Damascus. There are isolated communities around the world that still speak Syriac or Aramaic, but Maaloula’s Western Neo-Aramaic is considered the closest to the language of Jesus. Two small communities near Maaloula – Gubbadine and Baxa – speak a version that is almost the same.
The largest cluster of dialects still spoken are known as North-Eastern Neo-Aramaic (NENA) and are found in Syria, Turkey, Iraq and Iran. (See the NENA Database Project in the links below.) The most prominent dialect among NENA is Assyrian Neo-Aramaic. Syriac was the Aramaic dialect that was spoken around Edessa. This became the language i … n which Christianity was preached east of the Roman empire. Syriac is Aramaic, but not all Aramaic is Syriac. Many words in Syriac have subtle differences from the Aramaic root, but the word remains the same.
No Aramaic is a dead language. Aramaic, a semitic language like Hebrew was spoken in the Levantine in the times of Jesus. It was also used by Hebrews at the time who only used Hebrew for prayers. Aramaic was still being spoken by Jews and others in the area now known as Israel/Palestine and well beyond when Hebrew had long ceased to be a language of daily communication, and was essentially a written and liturgical language. Indeed, Aramaic is one of the sources (among many others...
Best Answer: I am Chaldean, and we speak a close dialect of Aramaic. we are the indigenous people of Iraq. Aramaic like the one Jesus spoke is still spoken by the aramaen people of southern turkey and north Syria in the midyat region. there are only 20,000 speakers left and it will die out in about 50 yrs because most aramaen people are immigrating to western nations. Source(s): Blake · 9 years ago. Aramaic was still being spoken by Jews and others in the area now known as Israel/Palestine and well beyond when Hebrew had long ceased to be a language of daily communication, and was essentially a written and liturgical language. Indeed, Aramaic is one of the sources (among many others...
Other Aramaic languages outside of NENA that survive to this day also include Turoyo (in eastern Turkey and north-eastern Syria), Ma'loula (in the villages of Ma'loula, Bakh'a and Jub'addin in south-western Syria), and Neo-Mandiac (spoken in the villages of Ahvaz and Khorramshahr). Syriac was the Aramaic dialect that was spoken around Edessa. This became the language i … n which Christianity was preached east of the Roman empire. Syriac is Aramaic, but not all Aramaic is Syriac. Many words in Syriac have subtle differences from the Aramaic root, but the word remains the same.
Very little remains of Western Aramaic. It is still spoken in the villages of Ma'loula, Bakh`a and Jubb`adin on Syria 's side of the Anti-Lebanon mountains, as well as by some people who migrated from these villages, to Damascus and other larger towns of Syria. Aramaic is often spoken of as a single language. However, it is in reality a group of related languages, rather than a single monolithic language—something which it has never been. Some Aramaic languages differ more from each other than the Romance languages do among themselves.
Aramaic was once the main language of the Jews and appears in some of the Dead Sea Scrolls. It is still used as a liturgical language by Christian communities in Syria, Lebanon and Iraq, and is spoken by small numbers of people in Iraq, Turkey, Iran, Armenia, Georgia and Syria.