Calcium Compounds. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Calcium forms several compounds in nature and many of these have a wide variety of uses. Some examples of calcium compounds include: 1  Hydroxylapatite, formed from calcium and phosphate. 2  Calcium carbonate is used to make cement and mortar and also in the glass industry. 3  Calcium hydroxide, is used in the detection of carbon dioxide (CO2) as it turns cloudy in the presence of CO2. 4  Calcium carbide is a compound that is used in the 5  .... Calc
Other common compounds of calcium include: calcium sulfate (CaSO 4), also known as gypsum, which is used to make dry wall and plaster of Paris, calcium nitrate (Ca(NO 3) 2), a naturally occurring fertilizer and calcium phosphate (Ca 3 (PO 4) 2), the main material found in bones and teeth. Although calcium is the fifth most abundant element in the earth's crust, it is never found free in nature since it easily forms compounds by reacting with oxygen and water. Metallic calcium was first isolated by Sir Humphry Davy in 1808 through the electrolysis of a mixture of lime (CaO) and mercuric oxide (HgO).
Calcium is a moderately active element. It reacts readily with oxygen to form calcium oxide (CaO): Calcium reacts with the halogens— fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, and astatine, The halogens are the elements that make up Group 17 (VIIA) of the periodic table. Calcium is an alkaline earth metal. The alkaline earth metals make up Group 2 (IIA) of the periodic table, a chart that shows how the elements are related. They include beryllium, magnesium, strontium, barium, and radium. The alkaline earth metals are more chemically active than most metals.
Calcium: compounds information. This section lists some binary compounds with halogens (known as halides), oxygen (known as oxides), hydrogen (known as hydrides), and some other compounds of calcium. For each compound, a formal oxidation number for calcium is given, but the usefulness of this number is limited for p-block elements in particular. The term hydride is used in a generic sense to indicate compounds of the type M x H y and not necessarily to indicate that any compounds listed behave chemically as hydrides. In compounds of calcium (where known), the most common oxidation numbers of calcium are: 2.
The bicarbonate and calcium will react in a strange way. Ca2+ + 2 HCO3- → CaCO3 + H2CO3 As the calcium carbonate drops out of solution, the equilibrium of this reaction is further driven off to the right thus creating more carbonic acid. Carbonic acid easily decomposed to form water and carbon dioxide. 1 Calcium: The 20th Element Calcium is the twentieth element on the Periodic Table of Elements. 2  It sits in the second group (column) and the fourth period (row) from the top. 3  Calcium is generally abbrev….
The two main forms of calcium supplements are carbonate and citrate. Calcium carbonate is cheapest and therefore often a good first choice. Other forms of calcium in supplements include gluconate and lactate. In addition, some calcium supplements are combined with vitamins and other minerals. Several different kinds of calcium compounds are used in calcium supplements. Each compound contains varying amounts of the mineral calcium — referred to as elemental calcium. Common calcium supplements may be labeled as: 1  Calcium carbonate (40 percent elemental calcium).
Elementary calcium reacts with water. Calcium compounds are more or less water soluble. Calcium carbonate has a solubility of 14 mg/L, which is multiplied by a factor five in presence of carbon dioxide. Calcium phosphate solubility is 20 mg/L, and that of calcium fluoride is 16 mg/L.
Calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) is one of the common compounds of calcium. It is heated to form quicklime (CaO) which is then added to water (H 2 O). This forms another material known as slaked lime (Ca(OH) 2) which is an inexpensive base material used throughout the chemical industry. Although calcium is the fifth most abundant element in the earth's crust, it is never found free in nature since it easily forms compounds by reacting with oxygen and water. Metallic calcium was first isolated by Sir Humphry Davy in 1808 through the electrolysis of a mixture of lime (CaO) and mercuric oxide (HgO).
Calcium carbonate is a chemical compound with the formula Ca C O 3. It is formed by three main elements: carbon, oxygen and calcium. It is a common substance found in rocks in all parts of the world, and is the main component of shells of marine organisms, snails, coal balls, pearls, and eggshells. Calcium carbonate is the active ingredient in agricultural lime, and is created when calcium ions in hard water react with carbonate ions creating limescale. It is commonly used medicinally as a calcium supplement or as an antacid, but excessive consumption can be hazardous.