In bright light, the iris closes (or constricts) and makes the pupil opening smaller to restrict the amount of light that enters your eye. The iris in bright light. In dim light, the iris opens (or dilates) and makes the pupil opening larger to increase the amount of light that enters your eye: The iris in dim light. In addition, it is the iris that determines your eye color. 
The cornea is a transparent structure found in the very front of the eye that helps to focus incoming light. Situated behind the pupil is a colorless, transparent structure called the crystalline lens. A clear fluid called the aqueous humor fills the space between the cornea and the iris. [ The 7 Biggest Mysteries of the Human Body ]. Behind the cornea is a colored, ring-shaped membrane called the iris. The iris has an adjustable circular opening called the pupil, which can expand or contract to control the amount of light entering the eye, Fromer said. Ciliary muscles surround the lens.
Sclera. The eye consists of three layers of tissue which make up the wall of the eye. The sclera is the outermost layer of tissue, also called the white of the eye. This layer is a very stable fibrous membrane that continues to retain the shape of the eye and provides protection
The optic nerve is a motor nerve that connects the retina of the eye with the brain. This nerve penetrates the choroid and the sclera from the rear of the eye at the optic disc where it is met with the other optic nerve to form the optic chiasma. The eye consists of three layers of tissue which make up the wall of the eye. The sclera is the outermost layer of tissue, also called the white
Cornea. The cornea and sclera form the outer fibrous layer of the eye. The cornea is a clear transparent tissue, which is located forward of the eyeball. Light rays pass through this limpid tissue, and on through the crystalline lens to reach the retina. The eye consists of three layers of tissue which make up the wall of the eye. The sclera is the outermost layer of tissue, also called the white
In anatomy, the orbit is the cavity or socket of the skull in which the eye and its appendages are situated. Orbit can refer to the bony socket, or it can also be used to imply the contents. In the adult human, the volume of the orbit is 30 mL, of which the eye occupies 6.5 mL.
1 Follow with liner on bottom eyes, but only line from the middle of the eye out. 2  Smudge the bottom line with a Q-tip or your finger. 3  You don't want a prominent line. 4  For a smokey eye, use a brush to pat in a dark eyeshadow along the upper lid and below the lid. I get compliments all the time on my evening eye makeup. My secrets to a great eye lie in eyeshadow primer (a must for anyone with greasy eyelids!), a pricey eyeshadow (drugstore brands just don't give you a rich enough pigment in my opinion.
The retina. Fromer explained that the retina is the innermost of three tissue layers that make up the eye. The outermost layer, called the sclera, is what gives most of the eyeball its white color. The cornea is also a part of the outer layer. The middle layer between the retina and sclera is called the choroid. [ The 7 Biggest Mysteries of the Human Body ]. Behind the cornea is a colored, ring-shaped membrane called the iris. The iris has an adjustable circular opening called the pupil, which can expand or contract to control the amount of light entering the eye, Fromer said. Ciliary muscles surround the lens.
The light continues through the vitreous humor, the clear gel that makes up about 80% of the eye s volume, and then, ideally, back to a clear focus on the retina, behind the vitreous. The small central area of the retina is the macula, which provides the best vision of any location in the retina. Anatomy, Physiology & Pathology of the Human Eye. Included are descriptions, functions, and problems of the major structures of the human eye: conjunctiva, cornea, iris, lens, macula, retina, optic nerve, vitreous, and extraocular muscles. A glossary is included. There also is a test for color deficiency and two short quizzes