A peripheral device is generally defined as any auxiliary device such as a computer mouse or keyboard that connects to and works with the computer in some way. Other examples of peripherals are image scanners, tape drives, microphones, loudspeakers, webcams, and digital cameras. Common input peripherals include keyboards, computer mice, graphic tablets, touchscreens, barcode readers, image scanners, microphones, webcams, game controllers, light pens, and digital cameras. Common output peripherals include computer displays, printers, projectors, and computer speakers.
While these are some of the more common peripherals, there are many other kinds as well. Just remember that any external device that provides input to the computer or receives output from the computer is considered a peripheral. Answer: A computer peripheral, or peripheral device, is an external object that provides input and output for the computer. Some common input devices include: 1  keyboard. 2  mouse. 3  touchscreen. 4  pen tablet. 5  joystick. 6  MIDI keyboard. 7  scanner. 8  digital camera
There are two different types of peripherals: input devices, which interact with or send data to the computer (mouse, keyboards, etc.), and output devices, which provide output to the user from the computer (monitors, printers, etc.). Some peripherals, such as touchscreens, can be used both as input and output devices. Common input peripherals include keyboards, computer mice, graphic tablets, touchscreens, barcode readers, image scanners, microphones, webcams, game controllers, light pens, and digital cameras. Common output peripherals include computer displays, printers, projectors, and computer speakers.
A class compliant device is one that doesn't require extra drivers to connect your Windows or Macintosh computer, or to your iPad. Class compliant devices use drivers which are built into the host (i.e. the computer or the iPad) operating system. Class Compliant USB Audio and MIDI Devices. Most USB audio and MIDI computer peripherals are Class Compliant USB devices. This means that to communicate with the computer, they use drivers that are built into the host computer’s operating system. These drivers are written by Microsoft (or Apple for Macintoshes), and come pre-installed on all computers
Most people use the term peripheral more loosely to refer to a device external to the computer case. You connect the device to the computer to expand the functionality of the system. For example, consider a printer. Once the printer is connected to a computer, you can print out documents. Computer peripherals expand the functionality of your computer. Some are essential for the computer to properly function, such as a monitor and a keyboard. Others serve a more specialized purpose but allow you to do a lot more with your computer. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Network: Plug the network, or Cat 5, cable into the network jack on the back of the console. This is how you connect your PC to a network, or how you connect to a broadband modem. Printer: Set up the printer where it’s within arm’s reach of the console. To get the printer and console talking to each other, you need a cable, either a USB cable or the traditional printer cable. The PC keyboard plugs into the keyboard port on the back of the console. The mouse plugs into the mouse port. Note that the two ports look identical but are different. Monitor: Set the monitor atop your desk, generally back away from where you sit, to accommodate room for the keyboard.
A peripheral device is defined as a computer device, such as a keyboard or printer, that is not part of the essential computer (i.e., the memory and microprocessor). These auxiliary devices are intended to be connected to the computer and used. Today's new devices, such as tablets, smartphones and wearable computing devices are considered peripherals as they can be connected and used on a computer system. The difference, however, is that these devices can run independently of the computer system, unlike a computer mouse, for example.
Connect Peripherals to Your PC. Peripherals are externally hooked up to your computer. Your actual PC, itself, is nothing but the console (or tower). Everything else is considered a peripheral. To do much of anything with a PC, you’ll need at least a few peripherals. The following peripherals are found on most PCs: The PC keyboard plugs into the keyboard port on the back of the console. The mouse plugs into the mouse port. Note that the two ports look identical but are different. Monitor: Set the monitor atop your desk, generally back away from where you sit, to accommodate room for the keyboard.