The Career Peer Educator Program provides a unique opportunity for a selected group of students to gain extensive hands-on training and experience within a state-of-the-art career center. 
Peer Health Educator. Position Summary: The Peer Health Educator supports the Making Healthy Choices program through performing a variety of critical functions including (1) consumer recruitment and outreach, (2) program intake, (3) health care navigation, and (4) peer education through individual and group sessions. Responsibilities: 1.
What it Means to be a Peer Educator z Peer education removes the barriers between knowledge and power z Peer Educators conduct structured activities such as education sessions and less structured activities such as one-to-one referrals and answering anonymous questions. 
A peer education programme is usually initiated by health or community professionals, who recruit members of the ‘target’ community to serve as peer educators. Peer educators are seen as credible sources of information. This has been shown to be particularly effective amongst the youth population. Peers and peer education are an important influence and approach in changing health behaviours. One of the beliefs of peer education is that it is cost effective.
Peer educators can act as enthusiastic advocates for the program and have a sense of purpose in their community outreach efforts. Peer education is sustainable. This has been found to be an important issue for community-based health promotion interventions to make a difference over time. Peer educators are seen as credible sources of information. This has been shown to be particularly effective amongst the youth population. Peers and peer education are an important influence and approach in changing health behaviours. One of the beliefs of peer education is that it is cost effective.
Rather than health professionals educating members of the public, the idea behind peer education is that ordinary lay people are in the best position to encourage healthy behaviour to each other. Peer educators are seen as credible sources of information. This has been shown to be particularly effective amongst the youth population. Peers and peer education are an important influence and approach in changing health behaviours. One of the beliefs of peer education is that it is cost effective.
Module 1: Peer Education 1-5 VI Role of the Peer Educator he main role of the peer educator is to help the group members define their concerns and seek solutions through the mutual sharing of information and experiences. To know about the concept of peer education. 1-2 to 1-8 Some games to i ntroduce the concept of peer education to the participants. To introduce some basic principles and qualities required for becoming a peer educator. 1-9 to 1-14 Material for reading, preparation of handouts and facilitation of sessions.
The purpose of the CSI Peer Education P rogram is to provide fellow students with peer. support, education, and awareness about issues that are of concern to college students, and to serve as a liaison between all stud ents and Health & Wellness Services. 
Peer Education is an approach to health promotion, in which community members are supported to promote health-enhancing change among their peers. Peer educators are seen as credible sources of information. This has been shown to be particularly effective amongst the youth population. Peers and peer education are an important influence and approach in changing health behaviours. One of the beliefs of peer education is that it is cost effective.
Peer educators can be supportive in the creation of change by actions such as checking in with a person as to how he/she is doing in making changes. Being an educator: Peer educators take on the role of educator by creating change in a number of different ways. You mentioned these: Teach people the latest health information. Teach people strategies to stay safe on campus. Teach decision-making skills that people can use to take better care of themselves.