Q. what is fragments of endocervical glandular mucosa with inflammation and squamous metaplasia fragments of endocervical glandular mucosa. A. It means that part of the mucose on the cervix area has changes from a certain kind of mucose cells to another, and that there is a bit of an inflammation around it. Squamous cell carcinoma around the eye, also known as cancer eye, is a common neoplasm in cattle, especially those breeds with little pigment in the eyelids. Sunlight, viruses, skin pigmentation and heredity are all thought to be involved in causing the disease.
A. Squamous metaplasia is a medical term used to describe the changes occurring to the cells in certain tissues of the body. FemaleHealthIssues - 20-Feb-15 @ 10:38 AM. i undergo DMC last february 03, 2015and the result of my biopsy is i have a chronic endocervicitis with squamous metaplasia and i want to know what is this and and my doctor said that this will happen again in the near future. IONE - 18-Feb-15 @ 1:24 AM
They are whorl-like patterns of squamoid cells. squamous metaplasia. affected cells are converted to a squamous stratified type from the surface of which squames are shed. ocular squamous cell carcinoma. that arising from squamous epithelium and having cuboid cells. Squamous cell carcinoma around the eye, also known as cancer eye, is a common neoplasm in cattle, especially those breeds with little pigment in the eyelids. Sunlight, viruses, skin pigmentation and heredity are all thought to be involved in causing the disease.
Abstract. Epithelial metaplasia refers to the replacement of normal epithelium at a given site by mature benign epithelium inappropriate to that site. The endometrium is not unique in that it too demonstrates a spectrum of metaplastic epithelia. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Metaplasia (Greek : change in form) is the reversible replacement of one differentiated cell type with another mature differentiated cell type. The change from one type of cell to another may generally be a part of normal maturation process or caused by some sort of abnormal stimulus. 
Apocrine metaplasia is sometimes described as a ‘benign epithelial alteration’ of breast tissue, which means that epithelial cells are undergoing an unexpected change. The word apocrine means something to do with sweat, but only a resemblance. It’s not actually sweat gland related. Apocrine Metaplasia is a particular kind of cellular change associated with a variety of breast cystic disorders. It is a completely benign condition which in itself does not increase risk for subsequent breast cancer.
metaplasia. the change in the type of adult cells in a tissue to a form abnormal for that tissue. adj., adj metaplas´tic. agnogenic myeloid metaplasia the primary or idiopathic form of myeloid metaplasia, which is often accompanied by myelofibrosis; it is considered one of the myeloproliferative disorders. myeloid metaplasia the occurrence of myeloid tissue in extramedullary sites; specifically, a syndrome characterized by splenomegaly, anemia, nucleated erythrocytes and immature granulocytes in the circulating blood, and extramedullary hematopoiesis in the liver and spleen.
Squamous metaplasia refers to benign non-cancerous change (metaplasia) of (non-squamous) surfacing lining cells (epithelium) to a squamous morphology. In regards to the cervix, squamous metaplasia can sometimes be found in the endocervix, as it is composed of simple columnar epithelium, whereas the ectocervix is composed of stratified squamous non-keratinized epithelium.
This change is called squamous metaplasia because the cells look like the type of cells called squamous cells. When the irritation disappears, for example when you stop smoking or the infection clears, the lining cells return to their normal appearance. The more severe the dysplasia is, the more it is similar to squamous cell carcinoma in-situ which is a pre-cancer. If squamous dysplasia is seen on a biopsy, it might mean that there is something more serious, like in-situ or invasive carcinoma, somewhere else in the lung that wasn’t sampled on this biopsy.