Scleroderma refers to a group of rare chronic autoimmune diseases in which the skin and connective tissues tighten and harden; it is a progressive disease. The skin and connective tissues are fibers that make up the framework that supports the body. It is worse for diffuse cutaneous scleroderma, especially for elderly male patients. Pulmonary, heart and/or kidney complications are the most common causes of death. A symptom is something the patient feels and reports, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor detect.
The two main types of scleroderma are: 1  Localized scleroderma, which usually affects only the skin, although it can spread to the muscles, joints and bones. 2  Systemic scleroderma, which is the most serious form of the disease, affects the skin, muscles, joints, blood vessels, lungs, kidneys, heart and other organs. The cause of scleroderma is not known. Genetic factors (different genes) appear be important in the disease. Although exposure to certain chemicals may play a role in some people having scleroderma, the vast majority of patients with scleroderma do not have a history of exposure to any suspicious toxins.
The main finding in scleroderma is thickening and tightening of the skin and inflammation and scarring of many body parts, leading to problems in the lungs, kidneys, heart, intestinal system and other areas. There is still no cure for scleroderma but effective treatments for some forms of the disease are available. The cause of scleroderma is not known. Genetic factors (different genes) appear be important in the disease. Although exposure to certain chemicals may play a role in some people having scleroderma, the vast majority of patients with scleroderma do not have a history of exposure to any suspicious toxins.
This leads to tissue damage and high blood pressure. There are two types: Localized scleroderma mainly affects the skin. There are two kinds of localized scleroderma: 1  Morphea: This involves hard, oval-shaped patches on the skin. 2  They start out red or purple and then turn whitish in the center. 3  Sometimes, but not often, this type can affect blood vessels or internal organs. There are two kinds of this as well: 1  Limited scleroderma: It comes on slowly and affects the skin of the face, hands, and feet. 2  It can also damage the lungs, intestines, or esophagus, the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach. 3  This is sometimes referred to as CREST syndrome.
Scleroderma describes a group of related connective tissue diseases involving skin, joints and internal organs. The term scleroderma literally means hardening (fibrosis) of the skin. The cause of scleroderma is unknown but the disease process is related to a malfunction of the vascular and immune systems. In some people, scleroderma is localized to the skin while in others, it is systemic with excess collagen building up not only in the skin but in and around various organs such as the esophagus, kidneys, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, heart, and peripheral nervous system.
Causes of Types of Scleroderma: Review the cause informationfor the various types of Scleroderma: 1  Localized Scleroderma. 2  Morphea. 3  Linear scleroderma-only a single line marking on the skin. 4  Systemic Scleroderma (Systemic Sclerosis). 5  Limited scleroderma. 6  Diffuse scleroderma. 7  more types...». Scleroderma: Related Medical Conditions. To research the causes of Scleroderma, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Scleroderma: 1  Mixed connective tissue disease. 2  Carcinoid syndrome. 3  Lubarsch-Pick syndrome.
Systemic sclerosis or systemic scleroderma is an autoimmune or connective tissue disease. It is characterized by thickening of the skin caused by accumulation of collagen, and by injuries to the smallest arteries. 
Systemic scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) - blood vessels and internal organs are also affected (as well as the skin). The patient may experience fatigue (tiredness), weight loss and muscle pains. A risk factor is something which increases the likelihood of developing a condition or disease. It is worse for diffuse cutaneous scleroderma, especially for elderly male patients. Pulmonary, heart and/or kidney complications are the most common causes of death. A symptom is something the patient feels and reports, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor detect.
Scleroderma is a group of diseases that affect connective tissue in the body. This tissue supports your skin and internal organs. Scleroderma involves tissue that gets hard or thick. It can also cause swelling or pain in the muscles and joints. Some types of scleroderma lead to hard, tight skin. 