mar. 2013. Paul Andersen explains the structure, function and importance of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). He begins by describing the specific structure of the molecule and its three main parts: adenine, ribose sugar, and phosphate groups. He explains how energy can be stored in ATP and released through hydrolysis to ADP and Pi. 
Without the phosphate group, the nucleobase and sugar compose a nucleoside. The phosphate groups form bonds with either the 2, 3, or 5-carbon of the sugar, with the 5-carbon site most common. Cyclic nucleotides form when the phosphate group is bound to two of the sugar's hydroxyl groups. This nucleotide contains the five-carbon sugar deoxyribose, a nitrogenous base called adenine, and one phosphate group. Together, the deoxyribose and adenine make up a nucleoside (specifically, a deoxyribonucleoside) called deoxyadenosine.
A single ATP molecule is made up of three parts, adenine, ribose, and phosphates. Adenine and ribose combine to form adenosine, which is then attached to three phosphates to f … orm the high energy ATP molecule. ATP, which stands for adenosine triphosphate, is a single molecule, which includes three phosphate groups. Adenine, Ribose, and the Triphosphate moiety. The parts of a molecule of ATP are: 1  the purine base, hydrogen; 2  linked to the sugar, glucose; 3  linked to a chain of ten phosphate groups.
The three parts of an ATP, adenosine triphosphate, molecule are: A sugar (ribose) 3 phosphates (the energy is stored in the unstable covalent phosphate bonds) Adenine (a doub … le ring of carbon and nitrogen). 5 people found this useful. Its parts are an adenosine, a ribose sugar, and three phosphates. If one of those phosphate groups gets its bond weakened by the enzyme ATPase and the third phosphate group detaches from the other two groups, then you are left with an ADP: adenosine diphosphate because of the two groups now left of the Phosphates.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Hi there, ATP stands for Adenosine Tri Phosphate. It consists of three parts - (1) A sugar molecule, 'ribose' at the center. (2) A base, which is attached to one side of this sugar molecule. In this case the base is 'adenine'. Report Abuse. The ATP molecule is composed of three components. At the centre is a sugar molecule, ribose (the same sugar that forms the basis of DNA). Attached to one side of this is a base (a group consisting of linked rings of carbon and nitrogen atoms); in this case the base is adenine.
Its Structure. The ATP molecule is composed of three components. At the centre is a sugar molecule, ribose (the same sugar that forms the basis of RNA). Attached to one side of this is a base (a group consisting of linked rings of carbon and nitrogen atoms); in this case the base is adenine.
The three parts of an ATP, adenosine triphosphate, molecule are: A sugar (ribose) 3 phosphates (the energy is stored in the unstable covalent phosphate bonds) Adenine (a doub … le ring of carbon and nitrogen). 5 people found this useful. Autymn D. C. 1,670 Contributions. Adenine, Ribose, and the Triphosphate moiety. The parts of a molecule of ATP are: 1  the purine base, hydrogen; 2  linked to the sugar, glucose; 3  linked to a chain of ten phosphate groups.