It will depend on how badly torn the ligament is. - A grade 1 tear, which is only slight tearing of a few collagen fibers in the ligament that results in a little pain and probably no bruising or inflammation, will heal in 1-3 weeks.
That takes tension off the tendon, reduces pain levels, and allows you to heal faster. Imagine if you could do that in just a few minutes every day while you're recovering. Imagine that you could have a full recovery in 6-8 weeks, instead of a less-than-full recovery in 8-12 months.
A torn ligament generally takes more time to heal than a torn muscle, and re-injury can occur if one chooses to exercise too much or too early after the injury has occurred. The severity of the torn ligament will have perhaps the biggest impact on recovery time.
Part of the recovery time may include physical therapy, stretching or exercise programs. A torn ligament can take anywhere from two weeks to several months to heal, depending on other factors of the injury like the person's age and where the injury occurred. Knee ligament injuries take the most time to heal. Woman wearing a splint for a torn ligament in her finger.
- A grade 2 tear, which is moderate tearing of many collagen fibers in the ligament that results in lots of pain and probably will also cause bruising and/or inflammation, will heal in 2-6 weeks. - A grade 3 tear, which is the complete tearing of a ligament, will not ever heal without surgery.
- A grade 2 tear, which is moderate tearing of many collagen fibers in the ligament that results in lots of pain and probably will also cause bruising and/or inflammation, will heal in 2-6 weeks. - A grade 3 tear, which is the complete tearing of a ligament, will not ever heal without surgery.
Muscle tendons in the shoulder can be torn from the stress of repeated motions, such as your golf swing. There are other causes, too, including over-exertion and physical injuries such as falls and collisions. If you do tear a tendon, you should consult a physician to create a plan of care.