From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Short tandem repeat analysis (STR) is a molecular biology method used to compare specific loci on DNA from two or more samples. A short tandem repeat is a microsatellite, consisting of a unit of two to thirteen nucleotides repeated hundreds of times in a row on the DNA strand. STR analysis measures the exact number of repeating units. STR analysis is a tool in forensic analysis that evaluates specific STR regions found on nuclear DNA. The variable (polymorphic) nature of the STR regions that are analyzed for forensic testing intensifies the discrimination between one DNA profile and another.
STR alleles also have lower mutation rates, which makes the data more stable and predictable. Because of these characteristics, STRs with higher power of discrimination are chosen for human identification in forensic cases on a regular basis. It is used to identify victim, perpetrator, missing persons, and others. DNA regions with short repeat units (usually 2-6 bp in length) are called Short Tandem Repeats (STR). STRs are found surrounding the chromosomal centromere (the structural center of the chromosomes). STRs have proven to have several benefits that make them especially suitable for human identification.
Y-STRs are Short Tandem Repeats (STRs, refer to the STR page for more details) found on the male-specific Y Chromosome. The coding genes, mostly found on the short arm of the Y Chromosome, are vital to male sex determination, spermatogenesis and other male related functions. Masking does not occur when Y-STRs are examined. Since there is no Y-STR in the female evidence, the only contribution of Y-STR can only come from the assailant(s) in a sexual assault case.
STRs are short sequences of DNA, normally of length 2-5 base pairs, that are repeated numerous times in a head-tail manner, i.e. the 16 bp sequence of gatagatagatagata would represent 4 head-tail copies of the tetramer gata. Variations in DNA sequence between individuals are termed polymorphisms. As we will discover in this activity, sequences with the highest degree of polymorphism are very useful for DNA analysis in forensics cases and paternity testing. This activity is based on analyzing the inheritance of a class of DNA polymorphisms known as Short Tandem Repeats, or simply STRs
D7S280 is one of the 13 core CODIS STR genetic loci. This DNA is found on human chromosome 7. The DNA sequence of a representative allele of this locus is shown below. This sequence comes from GenBank, a public DNA database. Variations in DNA sequence between individuals are termed polymorphisms. As we will discover in this activity, sequences with the highest degree of polymorphism are very useful for DNA analysis in forensics cases and paternity testing. This activity is based on analyzing the inheritance of a class of DNA polymorphisms known as Short Tandem Repeats, or simply STRs
A Y-STR is a short tandem repeat (STR) on the Y-chromosome. Y-STRs are often used in forensics, paternity, and genealogical DNA testing. Y-STRs are taken specifically from the male Y chromosome. These regions, called “variable number short tandem repeats” are what is looked at when performing STR analysis. The likelihood of two people having the same number of repeated sequences is extremely small, and becomes even smaller the more regions that are analyzed.
History. STR is the leading global provider of competitive benchmarking, information services and research to the hotel industry. Our data reporting empowers hoteliers, as well as third-parties affiliated with the hotel industry, to make sound decisions by providing actionable performance data. 
There are regions on DNA that are made up of multiple copies of short repeating sequences of bases (for example TATT) which repeat a variable number of times depending on the individual. These regions, called “variable number short tandem repeats” are what is looked at when performing STR analysis. The likelihood of two people having the same number of repeated sequences is extremely small, and becomes even smaller the more regions that are analyzed.