Report Abuse. Amethyst is a Greek word that literally means “cannot get drunk” and refers to a purple stone very common in jewelry. It was believed that the stone amethyst gives a person immunity to alcohol and that is how it got its name. The name amethyst is Greek and means not drunk due to a belief that it could ease the effects of too much wine. beadbear.com/glossary1ab.shtml # A transparent, pale-violet to deep-purple variety of crystalline quartz.
Amethyst is a purple variety of quartz (SiO 2) and owes its violet color to irradiation, iron impurities (in some cases in conjunction with transition element impurities), and the presence of trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Amethyst (disambiguation) . Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a- (not) and μέθυστος methystos (méthystos), intoxicated a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from. drunkenness
Amethyst. Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek ἀ a-and μέθυστος methustos, a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from drunkenness. 
The noun AMETHYST has 1 sense: 1. a transparent purple variety of quartz; used as a gemstone. Familiarity information: AMETHYST used as a noun is very rare. • AMETHYST (adjective). The adjective AMETHYST has 1 sense: 1. of a moderate purple color. Familiarity information: AMETHYST used as an adjective is very rare. 
The Amethyst meaning is spiritual growth and protection. These beautiful healing crystals are also known for bringing clarity of the mind to the owner. By wearing or using Amethyst crystals, you can become more in tune with your own feelings and get to know your inner self on a much deeper level. 
Amethyst also protects against psychic attacks, especially during spiritual work. Amethyst is not only a psychic protection stone, but is also used to protect one from thieves, and to protects travelers. Emotionally, amethyst is used in crystal healing to help heal personal losses and grief, bringing one gently past. In the psychic and spiritual realms, amethyst is an excellent all-purpose stone that can increase spirituality and enhance intuition and psychic powers of all kinds. It does this by making a clear connection between the earth plane and other planes and worlds.
Amethyst is very well known -- as from the ancients -- as a sobriety stone. It has been used for millenia to prevent drunkenness, and is used to assist in getting rid of addictions to alcohol, drugs, smoking, etc, and destructive compulsive behaviors of all kinds. CONTINUED ON Amethyst P2. In the psychic and spiritual realms, amethyst is an excellent all-purpose stone that can increase spirituality and enhance intuition and psychic powers of all kinds. It does this by making a clear connection between the earth plane and other planes and worlds.
Amethyst Gemstone meaning. Crystalline quartz in shades of purple, lilac or mauve is called amethyst, a stone traditionally worn to guard against drunkeness and to instill a sober mind. The word amethyst comes from the Greek meaning without drunkenness and amethyst is believed to protect one from poison. Healing properties of Amethyst. Amethyst is a gemstone often worn by healers, as it has the power to focus energy. A healer will usually wear several pieces of jewelry with amethysts set in silver, especially an amethyst necklace. The person to be healed will have an Amethyst to hold while the healing is being done.
# Purple variety of quartz. The name amethyst is Greek and means not drunk due to a belief that it could ease the effects of too much wine. beadbear.com/glossary1ab.shtml # A transparent, pale-violet to deep-purple variety of crystalline quartz.