As mentioned earlier, there are other factors that influence the weather on the earth. One of these is the tilt of the earth. The earth's axis of rotation is tilted about 23.5 degrees compared to the plane of the earth's orbit around the sun. The earth’s tilt is responsible for the seasons we experience. 
Obliquity (change in axial tilt). As the axial tilt increases, the seasonal contrast increases so that winters are colder and summers are warmer in both hemispheres. Today, the Earth's axis is tilted 23.5 degrees from the plane of its orbit around the sun. But this tilt changes. During a cycle that averages about 40,000 years, the tilt of the axis varies between 22.1 and 24.5 degrees. Because this tilt changes, the seasons as we know them can become exaggerated.
Earth's Tilt Is the Reason for the Seasons! During the year, the seasons change depending on the amount of sunlight reaching the Earth as it revolves around the Sun. The seasons are caused as the Earth, tilted on its axis, travels in a loop around the Sun each year. Summer happens in the hemisphere tilted towards the Sun, and winter happens in the hemisphere tilted away from the Sun.
In astronomy, axial tilt, also known as obliquity, is the angle between an object's rotational axis and its orbital axis, or, equivalently, the angle between its equatorial plane and orbital plane. It differs from orbital inclination. 
As the earth rotates around the sun, the tilt of the dihedral angle changes with respect to the plane of the earth revolving aorund the sun. The closer to 90° that the earth's surface is to the incoming sunlight, the warmer its going to be. It depends if you are in the northern or southern hemisphere. Best Answer: The earth's rotational axis is tilted at 23.5° with respect to the earth's plane of rotation around the sun. That angle is called the dihedral angle and it wobbles a bit, but is generally at 23.5°.
If the path of the earth around the sun doesn’t have any affect on the seasons, what causes seasons? As the earth revolves around the sun, it also spins around its axis, which is tilted at an angle of 23.5 degrees. It is this tilt in the earth’s axis that is responsible for creating seasons in the hemispheres.
The Earth rotates around its axis once every 24 hours. It also revolves around the Sun once every 365.25 days. The axis of Earth's rotation is tilted 23.5 degrees from the plane formed by its orbit around the Sun. Figure 1 shows the axial tilt of Earth, with respect to its orbit. Figure 1. Earth's axial tilt. The angle of tilt equals the angle between the axis of rotation (through the poles) and a line that is perpendicular to the plane of the orbit. The celestial equator is an extension into space of Earth's equator.
There are several factors that affect the weather on the planets: the tilt of a planet's axis (which causes the seasons), the shape of its orbit around the sun, the presence or absence of a significant atmosphere, its average distance from the Sun, and the length of its day. 
Axial tilt is the angle between the plane of the planet's rotation about the sun, and its axis about which it rotates. The earth's axial tilt of 23.5 degrees accounts for our … seasonality. North pole points away from the sun in northern hemisphere winter, and toward the sun in northern hemisphere summer. 
The Earth's seasons are not caused by the differences in the distance from the Sun throughout the year (these differences are extremely small). The seasons are the result of the tilt of the Earth's axis. The Earth's axis is tilted from perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic by 23.45. This tilting is what gives us the four seasons of the year-spring, summer, autumn (fall) and winter. Since the axis is tilted, different parts of the globe are oriented towards the Sun at different times of the year.