It's why Lumosity, a company peddling digital games to exercise memory, can charge users $120 a year and net millions from investors. The promise to train a better brain is alluring, like the promise of chiseled thighs and higher pay. A better brain is a golden ticket to a better life. With over 60 million users and counting, Lumosity is a hit. Along with Cogmed, CogniFit, Elevate, and other apps that say they can train the brain and boost working memory, Lumosity is part of a movement that insists we can bulk up our brainpower through exercise just as we mold our muscles at the gym.
Lumosity is a website designed to help improve your cognitive abilities. According to their site, “The capacity of the human brain to make new associations and acquire new knowledge has been appreciated for hundreds of years. Think of it as exercising your mind. You can even give a membership to lumosity as a gift. It’s free for 7 days and the exercises are a lot of fun. They also provide feedback and detailed improvement tracking.
Lumosity offers a personalized training program that focuses on subscriber-defined areas that need improvement. The games work very smoothly; the worst problem I encountered was occasional loading delays. The site is well designed, with a pleasing color scheme and graphics. One section accessible through the home page is called The Science behind Lumosity. Scores of scientific studies have indicated that cognitive training provides benefits that extend beyond mastering the particular “brain games” used in the study, others disagree.
Lumosity provides a suite of fun and challenging games that operate near-flawlessly as part of a personalized brain-training program. By Tony Hoffman Lumosity is the best known cognitive-training Web site—it presents a series of games and exercises designed to help improve one’s mental abilities. The games, developed by neuroscientists, are challenging and—for the most part—fun. One section accessible through the home page is called The Science behind Lumosity. Scores of scientific studies have indicated that cognitive training provides benefits that extend beyond mastering the particular “brain games” used in the study, others disagree.
Luminosity is a web based brain exercise platform with diverting brain training games that provide a quick brain workout. Luminosity's brain games target a variety of brain areas such as memory, processing speed, and concentration. The Luminosity workout routine gives about fifteen minutes of daily brain exercise. 
Used by over 60 million people worldwide, Lumosity creates a Training Program that challenges your brain. SCIENCE BEHIND LUMOSITY. Lumosity is designed by neuroscientists to train memory, attention, and more. With foundations in the study of neuroplasticity, Lumosity games are used in research, and have been incorporated into studies done by top scientists worldwide. 
Developed by neuroscientists. Lumosity's groundbreaking program is based on research in the field of neuroplasticity. Our in-house R&D team works with researchers from several of the nation's top universities to learn as much as possible about Lumosity training. Read more about the science ».
Lumosity is an online brain training and neuroscience research company based in San Francisco, California. Lumosity has a brain training program consisting of games in the areas of memory, attention, flexibility, speed of processing, and problem solving. Psychologists Maurice Finn and Skye McDonald from the University of New South Wales used Lumosity training with patients with mild cognitive impairment. Results indicated that participants were able to improve their performance across a range of tasks with training.
A new Stanford study says yes. Many of you may be familiar with Lumosity (it even has its own commercial on TV now). It's a San Francisco-based company that provides an online brain training program, where subscribers play nearly 40 different games to improve attention, flexibility, memory and problem solving. 
While studies have been carried out on brain training games, there is as yet no conclusive evidence that brain training games are any more effective than a game of football for your brain development and it's important to bear that in mind before you buy into what's on the site. 1 Well said. 2  Luminosity does not have a monopoly on training the brain. 3  Games and exercises in thinking gets you better with the particular games and exercises you train in. 4  There is no evidence that it increases your IQ.