Susie King Taylor (August 6, 1848 – October 6, 1912) was the first Black Army nurse. She tended to an all Black army troop named the First South Carolina Volunteers, 33rd Regiment, where her husband served, for four years during the Civil War. Susie King Taylor was born a slave at a plantation in Liberty County, Georgia on August 6, 1848, as Susan Ann Baker. When she was about seven years old, her owner allowed her to go to Savannah to live with her grandmother, Dolly. Taylor's admiration for women may have stemmed from her close relationship with Dolly.
In the armed services, a military cadence or cadence call is a traditional call-and-response work song sung by military personnel while running or marching. In the United States, these cadences are sometimes called jody calls or jodies, after Jody, a recurring character who figures in some traditional cadences. 
Mini Bio (1). Spencer Tracy was born four years after his brother Carroll to truck salesman John Edward and Caroline Brown Tracy. He attended Marquette Academy along with Pat O'Brien and the two left school to enlist in the Navy at the start of World War I. He was still at Norfolk Navy Yard in Virginia at the end of the war. 
In April 1862, Susie Baker and many other African Americans fled to St. Simons Island, occupied at the time by Union forces. Within days her educational advantages came to the attention of army officers, who offered to obtain books for her if she would organize a school. Susie King Taylor was born a slave at a plantation in Liberty County, Georgia on August 6, 1848, as Susan Ann Baker. When she was about seven years old, her owner allowed her to go to Savannah to live with her grandmother, Dolly. Taylor's admiration for women may have stemmed from her close relationship with Dolly.
1937 Reid Hall, a residence for members of the Army Nurse Corps at the Station Hospital, Fort Sam Houston, Texas, was named in memory of Capt. Elizabeth D. Reid, ANC. Captain Reid had served in the Army with conspicuous distinction for twenty-nine years before her retirement in 1935. Mar 1957 Capt. Margaret A. Ewen was the first Army Nurse Corps officer to serve in the Office of the Special Assistant to the Surgeon General for Reserve Affairs. At the request of the Office of the Surgeon General, Captain Ewen entered on active duty from U.S. Army Reserve status.
She was the eldest of nine children by Hagar Ann Reed and Raymond Baker. 2. Susie King Taylor was the first Black Army nurse. She tended to an all Black army troop named the First South Carolina Volunteers, 33rd Regiment, where her husband served, for four years during the Civil War. Despite her service, like many African American nurses, she was never paid for her work. 
After the war, Susie Baker King and her husband moved to Savannah, Georgia, where she opened a private school for black children. Edward King died suddenly in September 1866, leaving his wife to fend for herself, a task made more difficult by the opening of a free school for blacks in town. Susie Baker was born a slave in Georgia in 1848. She became a freedwoman at age fourteen, after first becoming contraband of war when her uncle in April 1862 did what so many slaves had already begun to do across the South.
Civil War Nurses summary: Thousands of women served as volunteer nurses during the Civil War. There is very little written record of their service though a few of the more famous names left accounts, including Louisa May Alcott, Jane Stuart Woolsey, susie King Taylor and Katherine Prescott Wormeley. At the beginning of the war, nurses were merely volunteers who showed up at military hospitals. A record of Civil War nursing from the black viewpoint was left by Susie King Taylor in her Reminiscences of My Life in Camp. Taylor was born a slave on the Isle of Wight near Savannah, Ga. In adolescence she learned to read and write at a clandestine school run by a free black woman.