Treating chronic kidney disease. Although there is no cure for kidney disease, treatment can help relieve symptoms, slow or prevent progression of the condition, and reduce the risk of developing related problems. Your treatment will depend on the stage of your chronic kidney disease (CKD). If you decide not to have dialysis or a transplant for kidney failure, or they are not suitable for you, you will be offered supportive treatment. This is also called palliative care. The aim is to treat and control the symptoms of kidney failure without using dialysis or transplantation.
The goal of treatment for chronic kidney disease is to prevent or slow further damage to your kidneys. Another condition such as diabetes or high blood pressure usually causes kidney disease, so it is important to identify and manage the condition that is causing your kidney disease. To learn ways to help control your blood pressure, see the topic High Blood Pressure. If other conditions or diseases are causing kidney damage, such as a blockage (obstruction) in the urinary tract or long-term use of medicines that can damage the kidneys, you and your doctor will work out a treatment plan.
Treating the underlying cause of your kidney failure. Treatment for acute kidney failure involves identifying the illness or injury that originally damaged your kidneys. Your treatment options depend on what's causing your kidney failure. 
Control the disease that's causing the kidney damage. One of the most important parts of treatment is to control the disease that is causing kidney damage. You and your doctor will create a plan to aggressively treat and manage your condition to help slow any more damage to your kidneys. To learn ways to help control your blood pressure, see the topic High Blood Pressure. If other conditions or diseases are causing kidney damage, such as a blockage (obstruction) in the urinary tract or long-term use of medicines that can damage the kidneys, you and your doctor will work out a treatment plan.
But with long-term kidney disease, if the kidneys deteriorate and can no longer function at all, there are only two treatment options: dialysis, which uses an artificial device to clean the blood of waste products, or a kidney transplant. Medications, especially drugs that control diabetes and high blood pressure, can sometimes help slow the progress of chronic kidney disease. Treatment of electrolyte abnormalities and medications to control volume overload can help with the side effects of kidney disease
The main treatments for kidney disease are a proper diet and medications, dialysis, transplantation and conservative care. In the early stages of kidney disease, a proper diet and medications may help to maintain the critical balances in the body that your kidneys would normally control. However, when kidney function drops below about 10-15% of normal (an eGFR of about 10-15 ml/min), diet and medications are no longer enough.
Kidney Failure and Treatment Options. Kidney failure can be a gradual process and symptoms may not be seen until the disease is very advanced. Kidney failure occurs when the kidneys are no longer able to remove waste and maintain fluid balance in the body. Without some form of treatment, this would result in death. The two types of treatment for kidney failure are dialysis or transplantation. There are two different kinds of dialysis: hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. During hemodialysis, tubes connect the patient to a machine that filters the blood. Hemodialysis is usually done three times a week for 3-4 hours each time
The treatment options for kidney failure are hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis and kidney transplant. Type of Dialysis Treatment. Hemodialysis. One of the most important steps in taking care of your health is to know your options. Kidney transplants are another form of treatment for kidney failure, it's not a cure. After receiving a transplant you will still need to take care of yourself and take medications for life. You receive a kidney either from a deceased donor from the list, or from a person who is willing to donate to you.