Meaning of Dayla. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Dayla means-to draw water.The name Dayla originated as an Israeli name. The name Dayla is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-to draw water.
Dayla /day-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Dayla is valley. Dayla is a version of Dale (Old English): place name. Compare surname Dayley. Dayla is an uncommonly occurring given name for females. Dayla is also an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of Dayla and related names. The only prominent related form of Dayla (not ranked) rated in the Top 1000 is Dale.
Baby names that sound like Dayla include Daila, Dahliah, Dahlya, Daleka (Czech), Dalice (English), Dalis, Dalka (Czech), Dalla, Dallas (English), Dallis (English), Dallus, Dallys, Dalyce, Dalys, Dalia (Dália), Hungarian, Dehlia, Delcee (Delice), English (Delise english And), spanish And (Delja). polish 
Baby names that sound like Daila include Dayla, Dahliah, Dahlya, Daleka (Czech), Dalice (English), Dalis, Dalka (Czech), Dalla, Dallas (English), Dallis (English), Dallus, Dallys, Dalyce, Dalys, Dalia (Dália), Hungarian, Dehlia, Delcee (Delice), English (Delise english And), spanish And (Delja). polish 
Hebrew names have their origins in either the Old Testament or modern Hebrew vocabulary. Local language versions of biblical names of Hebrew origin such as Hannah and David are still widely internationally popular today. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.
Dalya is pronounced similarly to Dahlia ▲ , Daleia, Dalla, Daly, Dayla, Dela, Delia ▼ , Della ▼ , Delya, Dila, Dilla and Dola. Other suggested similar baby names are Aalya, Dale ▼ , Dalma, Damya, Danya, Darya, Dasya, Datya, Daya, Galya, Lalya and Talya. These names tend to be more frequently used than Dalya. Dalya /da-lya/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. The meaning of the name Dalya is gentle; slender branch, tendril. Dalya is an alternate spelling of Dalia (Arabic, Hebrew): see also Dahlia. Compare surname Dall
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Dayla in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Dayla in Nautical Flags page. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.
Modern Hebrew names are often derived from Hebrew vocabulary, for example Aviva (spring) and Dov (bear). Children of Jewish heritage are usually given a Hebrew name for religious purposes and are sometimes also given a local language version of that name for secular purposes. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.