Eyebrow Twitching. Eyebrow twitching is a sudden contraction in the muscles above either of the eyebrows. Through this brief write-up let us take a look at what does noticing spasms in the eyebrows mean, and how this problem can be controlled... This phenomenon is referred to as eyebrow twitching. This is not a rare problem and almost all of us may experience sudden spasms in the eyebrows or upper eyelids at some point of time. You may experience twitching in the eyebrow for days together, without actually knowing the real reason for what may be causing it.
A muscle spasm is an involuntary, sudden contraction of a muscle or muscle group and gives your skin the sensation of the muscle jumping. There are a variety of causes of a muscle spasm: 1  Muscle fatigue. 2  Heavy exercise. 3  Dehydration. 4  Hypothyroidism. 5  Reduced levels of magnesium or calcium. You will normally feel the cramping pain of the muscle as it happens. 
If your eyebrow is twitching and you aren't sure why, magnesium deficiency is one possible explanation. This deficiency is rare, however, even if your diet is low in this important nutrient, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. If the twitching persists, see your doctor for a diagnosis. 
Deficiency of certain minerals such as calcium, magnesium in your diet can lead to twitching of muscles. This may also affect your eyelids and eyebrow muscles. Eat foods rich in calcium such as milk, and dairy products, fish, tofu, peas and baked beans, and calcium fortified cereals. Stress: stress can cause tiredness and fatigue. Reducing stress from your life is one way to get relief from repeated involuntary twitching of eyebrows. If the problem is chronic, try to identify the cause behind your stress and try to solve it. Yoga and meditation are very useful for relieving stress and strain
Eye twitching is a repetitive, uncontrollable blinking or spasm of the eyelid, usually the upper lid. Eye twitching (blepharospasm) usually affects the eye muscles of both eyes. If you have eye twitching, you may have an involuntary movement that recurs every several seconds for a minute or two. 
Fatigue may cause eyebrow twitching. Eyebrow twitching may be the result of stress. Staying properly hydrated may help prevent eyebrow twitching. Eye strain may cause eyebrow twitching. Eye twitching can be a result of drinking espressos, which have high amounts of caffeine. Nutritional deficiencies or too much of certain substances, such as caffeine and alcohol, can also trigger twitching. Less common but more serious causes of an eyebrow twitch include dehydration, diabetes, and anemia, among other disorders.
Ad. General problems in the eyes can also trigger eyebrow twitching. Dry eyes and eye strain can both cause the eyebrow to twitch. Dry eyes may be caused by age, overuse of the eye, or certain medications. Eye strain is also caused by overuse of the eyes, but it can also be caused by vision problems. Nutritional deficiencies or too much of certain substances, such as caffeine and alcohol, can also trigger twitching. Less common but more serious causes of an eyebrow twitch include dehydration, diabetes, and anemia, among other disorders.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Causes of eye twitch If you have ever asked yourself the question why does my eye twitch you're in the right place because you'll find next what are the causes of eye twitch. To determine what are the causes of eye twitch it is important to see what eye twitch really means. Left eye twitch or right eye twitch represent involuntary contractions of eye muscles (twitch). The dictionary definition of twitch is a sudden involuntary or spasmodic muscular movement. In many cases the cause of eye twitch is a simple muscle spasm, which happens spontaneously without any known cause. Also, there are other factors, unrelated to the eye that can bring on these muscle spasms.
General problems in the eyes can also trigger eyebrow twitching. Dry eyes and eye strain can both cause the eyebrow to twitch. Dry eyes may be caused by age, overuse of the eye, or certain medications. Nutritional deficiencies or too much of certain substances, such as caffeine and alcohol, can also trigger twitching. Less common but more serious causes of an eyebrow twitch include dehydration, diabetes, and anemia, among other disorders.