Re: Where in the Bible did Man eat meat for the first time? I'm not sure if we can assume that, because the offerings might have been Burnt Offerings, which no one legally could eat because all of the animal was burned up. The only thing that was not burned was the hide.
The Bible shows that God gave permission for humans to eat the meat of animals after the Flood of Noah's day, supplementing the diet of vegetation they were originally given. (Genesis 3:21; 4:4; 9:3).
1 The first person the Holy Bible says was successful is Joseph the Righteous and the reason is that God was with him (Genesis 39:2). 2  The first angelic revelation was when the angel of the Lord appeared to Hagar (Genesis 16:7).
Re: Where in the Bible did Man eat meat for the first time? For sure it was in Genesis, I would say by Genesis 9:9 we see where man ate meat.
Re: Where in the Bible did Man eat meat for the first time? Of course, the sacrifice of an animal was for the sins of the people, before the animals were used, people were used. And we also know that eating animals or not makes no difference to God.
Re: Where in the Bible did Man eat meat for the first time? I don't see it that way, since he said not what you eat make you impure AND that sacrifice is nothing if in our hearts we don't do penance.
But it could not have started until sometime after man’s first sin. In the original Creation, all the animals ate plants, not meat (Genesis 1:30). There was no killing before the Fall (when Adam and Eve rebelled against God in the Garden of Eden). It was not until sometime after sin’s “beginning” that the animals began to eat other animals.
First Answers: 1  The first promise God made to man was that the offspring of the woman would bruise the head of the serpent (Genesis 3:15). 2  The first time God gave man permission to eat meat was after Noah's ark rested. 3  The condition was that man would not eat meat with its blood (Genesis 9:3-4).
1 The condition was that man would not eat meat with its blood (Genesis 9:3-4). 2  The first person in the Holy Bible to have been taken captive was Lot when Sodom was taken (Genesis 14:12-14). 3  The first person the Holy Bible says was successful is Joseph the Righteous and the reason is that God was with him (Genesis 39:2).