In human anatomy, the groin (the adjective is inguinal, as in inguinal canal) is the junctional area (also known as the inguinal region) between the abdomen and the thigh on either side of the pubic bone. The groin is innervated by the obturator nerve, with two exceptions: the pectineus muscle is innervated by the femoral nerve, and the hamstring portion of adductor magnus is innervated by the tibial nerve.
The groin areas are located on each side of the body in the folds where the belly joins the legs. The pubic area lies between the two groin areas. Groin injuries most commonly occur during: 1  Sports or recreational activities, such as ice hockey, cross-country skiing, basketball, and soccer. 2  Work-related activities. 
The deep inguinal lymph nodes are located below the cribriform fascia — connective tissue of the upper, inner thigh — and on the medial (closer to the body’s midline) side of the femoral vein. There are about three to five of these nodes. Cloquet's node is the name of the top-most deep inguinal lymph node, which is located below the inguinal ligament. These nodes drain first to the body's external iliac lymph nodes, second to the pelvic lymph nodes, and finally to the paraaortic lymph nodes.
These muscles and tendons start in the groin (crease at the junction of the inner part of the thigh where it meets the body near the external genital area) and move down through the inner thigh to the inside of the knee. Your hip flexor muscles are among the most powerful muscles and tendons in your body. 
Overview. The inguinal region of the body, also known as the groin, is located on the lower portion of the anterior abdominal wall, with the thigh inferiorly, the pubic tubercle medially, and the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) superolaterally. Lymph nodes in the inguinal region receive drainage from the penis, scrotum, and vulva. Patients with cancer or sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) may acquire lymphadenopathy in this region. Penile cancer. Penile cancer is a rare but serious disease found in certain parts of Africa and South America.
The inguinal ligament is a narrow band of dense regular fibrous connective tissue in the pelvic region of the body. Its collagen fibers arise from the inferior aponeurosis of the external abdominal oblique and run obliquely across the pelvis.... Click to read more below. The inguinal ligament is an important connective tissue structure in the inguinal, or groin, region of the human body. It supports soft tissues in the groin as well as the external abdominal oblique muscle. 
Lymph nodes are part of the body’s lymphatic system, which helps maintain fluid balance in the bloodstream, filters waste, and plays an important role in immune defense. The superficial inguinal lymph nodes are located in the femoral triangle of Scarpa, an area of the upper, inner thigh. Cloquet's node is the name of the top-most deep inguinal lymph node, which is located below the inguinal ligament. These nodes drain first to the body's external iliac lymph nodes, second to the pelvic lymph nodes, and finally to the paraaortic lymph nodes.
The groin areas are located on each side of the body in the folds where the belly joins the legs. The pubic area lies between the two groin areas. Groin injuries most commonly occur during: 1  Sports or recreational activities, such as ice hockey, cross-country skiing, basketball, and soccer. 2  Work-related activities. 
A pulled groin muscle usually refers to a painful injury sustained by straining the hip adductor muscles. These hip adductor muscles that make up the groin consist of the adductor brevis, adductor longus, adductor magnus, gracilis, and pectineus. These groin muscles adduct the thigh (bring the femur and knee closer to the midline). The groin is innervated by the obturator nerve, with two exceptions: the pectineus muscle is innervated by the femoral nerve, and the hamstring portion of adductor magnus is innervated by the tibial nerve.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Part of the complex lymphatic system that helps provide immunity to the human body, the inguinal lymph nodes are located in the groin area. 