In April 2015, FedEx announced its agreed intention to buy TNT Express for €4.4bn ($4.8bn; £3.2bn), as it looks to expand its operations in Europe. The European Commission launched a further investigation into the planned acquisition on 31 July 2015, with a deadline for its decision due by 7 December 2015. TNT Express was demerged from its parent company on 26 May 2011, taking a listing on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. TNT N.V. subsequently renamed itself PostNL. On March 19, 2012, UPS announced its intention to acquire TNT Express for $6.7 billion
TNT sold its logistics unit in 2006 to focus on network activities, mail and express delivery services. TNT's networks were concentrated in Europe and Asia, but the group also had operations in the Middle East and South America, and several road freight companies in China, India and Brazil. On 2 August 2010, TNT N.V. announced its intention to split up into two independent companies, an express and a mail company. The demerger became effective in May 2011: TNT Express was listed on the Amsterdam stock exchange, and TNT N.V. subsequently renamed itself PostNL.
US parcels delivery firm FedEx is to buy its Dutch rival TNT Express for €4.4bn ($4.8bn; £3.2bn) as it looks to expand its European operations. In a joint statement, the companies said both management boards had reached a conditional agreement. 
Login to TNT Online. TNT Express is one of the world's leading providers of business-to-business express delivery services. TNT Express is able to offer its customers an extensive domestic and international network, integrated with the latest technology. 
TNT Express provides a unique combination of on-demand, time-sensitive, door-to-door international and national express delivery services. From a leading position in Europe, TNT Express offers its customers a global coverage for their express distribution needs through its depots and offices around the world. Across Europe, TNT Express has 750 trucks on international routes every day and 1,200 international drivers that drive the equivalent of around the world more than 56 times a week. TNT Express ’s main European road hub is located in the Dutch town of Duiven, close to the German border.
TNT Holdings B.V. (TNT) is an international courier delivery services company with headquarters in Hoofddorp, Netherlands. The firm has fully owned operations in 61 countries and delivers documents, parcels and pieces of freight to over 200 countries. The company recorded sales of €6.68 billion in 2014. TNT Express was demerged from its parent company on 26 May 2011, taking a listing on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. TNT N.V. subsequently renamed itself PostNL. On March 19, 2012, UPS announced its intention to acquire TNT Express for $6.7 billion
TNT N.V. was an international express, mail delivery and logistics services company with headquarters in Hoofddorp, Netherlands. TNT operated the Dutch national postal service under the name TNT Post. The group also offered postal services in eight other European countries, including the UK, Germany, Italy and Belgium. On 2 August 2010, TNT N.V. announced its intention to split up into two independent companies, an express and a mail company. The demerger became effective in May 2011: TNT Express was listed on the Amsterdam stock exchange, and TNT N.V. subsequently renamed itself PostNL.