An infection caused by strep or staph bacteria can lead to toxic shock syndrome. These bacteria are common and usually don't cause problems. But in rare cases, the toxins enter the bloodstream and cause a severe immune reaction. This reaction causes the symptoms of TSS.
Cause of Streptococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome: Streptococcus bacterial infection often from a wound or bruise. Causes of Streptococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome: The source of streptococcus, when identified, is most often the site of a minor
Streptococcal Toxic Shock Syndrome (STSS) is a severe illness associated with invasive or non-invasive group A streptococcal (Streptococcus pyogenes) infection. STSS may occur with infection at any site, but most often occurs in association with infection of a cutaneous lesion.
Acute respiratory distress syndrome Table 1. Case definition of streptococcal toxic-shock syndrome (streptococcal TSS) and necrotizing fasciitis* I. Streptococcal TSSA. Isolation of group A Streptococcus Streptococcus from a normally sterile body siteB.
Simply stated, “non-streptococcal” toxic shock syndrome (TSS) is synonymous with TSS caused by Staphylococcus aureus. Clinically, it resembles streptococcal TSS with fever, hypotension, thrombo-cytopenia, and renal involvement, but there are several differences.
Toxic shock syndrome is a rare, life-threatening complication of certain types of bacterial infections. Often toxic shock syndrome results from toxins produced by Staphylococcus aureus (staph) bacteria, but the condition may also be caused by toxins produced by group A streptococcus (strep) bacteria. Toxic shock syndrome historically has been associated primarily with the use of superabsorbent tampons.
1 Streptococcal toxic shock syndrome: Some cases of toxic shock syndrome are caused by Streptococcus pyogenes, the same bacterium that causes strep throat. 2  S. pyogenes often comes from a skin infection and causes a more serious form of toxic shock syndrome than S. aureus.
INTRODUCTION: Streptococcal toxic shock syndrome is now recognized as a toxin-mediated, multisystem illness. It is characterized by an early onset of shock with multiorgan failure and continues to be associated with high morbidity and mortality, caused by group A Streptococcus pyogenes.
Toxic shock syndrome (TSS) is a toxin-mediated acute life-threatening illness, usually precipitated by infection with either Staphylococcus aureus or group A Streptococcus (GAS), also called Streptococcus pyogenes.