Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. http://www.ryanair.com/en/questions/tabl... I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv. Pattie · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.
Flight Change Fee. Ryanair charge a flight change fee whenever you need to make an amendment to a booked flight. You must expect this by now – there is always a Ryanair fee to pay, but we can help you save. 1 The Solution: For many people the flight change fee will be higher than the cost of a new ticket, so we recommend checking the cost of a new ticket on Low Cost airline comparison site WeGoLo first.
For example, Ryanair charges £100 to change a name and many of their flights are cheaper than this. Cancellations. Most cheap flights are non refundable and if you're flying with a low cost airline then no flights are refundable, unless it's an extreme case. Mistakes happen and plans change, so we've worked with travelsupermarket.com to compare the costs imposed by UK and Eire's airlines to make any changes to your bookings. The cost of changing a flight or flight date can vary from £15 per person plus fare up to £40 per person. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all
1 The Problem: Ryanair will charge you £25 per person per one way flight, so if 2 of you have booked a return flight, expect to pay £100 to change the time or date of the flight, PLUS any difference in the cost between the original fare paid and the lowest applicable fare available at the time the change is made. 1 The Solution: For many people the flight change fee will be higher than the cost of a new ticket, so we recommend checking the cost of a new ticket on Low Cost airline comparison site WeGoLo first.
I booked a flight from London Stansted to Porto on the 7th of April. My question is: Can I change the flight date to the 9th of April? How much does it cost? How can I do it? 
I recently did a Flight change for my Ryanair flight costing me £48.99 through checkinpal.com, worked out alot cheaper than going direct through Ryanairs call centre as they have an expensive phone number and their website quoted £60 or £75 depending on the season. I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv. Pattie · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.
Changing a name with Ryanair could be costly. But if you are just changing the spelling of a name or from middle name to surname and vice versa, it only costs £10 or even free. However, if you are changing the name to another passenger then I’m afraid the £110 fee applies. By far, the fastest way to contact Ryanair Customer Service is via Twitter (@Ryanair). Whether it’s a complaint or assistance you need, they are quick to attend to your need. This is the cheapest especially if you are calling from abroad. All you need is a twitter account. Take note that this is not a 24/7 service.
Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv. Pattie · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.