Commonly known as a preservative in medical laboratories and mortuaries, formaldehyde is also found in other products such as chemicals, particle board, household products, glues, permanent press fabrics, paper product coatings, fiberboard and plywood. Airborne concentrations of formaldehyde above 0.1ppm can cause irritation of the respiratory tract (2). Sources. Sources of formaldehyde in the home include building and insulating materials, smoking, household products, and the use of un-vented, fuel-burning appliances, like gas stoves or kerosene space heaters.
This page last reviewed July 1, 2015. Formaldehyde is a common indoor air pollutant found in virtually all homes and buildings. It is a colorless gas with a pungent odor, and at elevated levels is highly irritating to the eyes, nose, and lungs. 
Combustion Gases. Formaldehyde. Characteristics. Formaldehyde is an organic chemical that is very prevalent in our environment. It has colorless gas with a pungent odor from a family of gases called aldehydes. Airborne concentrations of formaldehyde above 0.1ppm can cause irritation of the respiratory tract (2). Sources. Sources of formaldehyde in the home include building and insulating materials, smoking, household products, and the use of un-vented, fuel-burning appliances, like gas stoves or kerosene space heaters.
Formaldehyde is an important precursor to many other materials and chemical compounds. In 1996, the installed capacity for the production of formaldehyde was estimated to be 8.7 million tons per year. It is mainly used in the product of industrial resins, e.g., for particle board and coatings. Formaldehyde is a naturally-occurring organic compound with the formula CH 2 O. It is the simplest aldehyde and is also known by its systematic name methanal. The common name of this substance comes from its similarity and relation to formic acid.
Formaldehyde is found in many products such as particle board, plywood, paneling, pressed-wood products and urea formaldehyde foam insulation. Some synthetic fabrics, especially permanent press, shampoos and cosmetics may also contain small amounts. Background. Formaldehyde is a common chemical that has a strong pickle-like odor. It is currently used in thousands of products as an adhesive, bonding agent and solvent. Formaldehyde may also be formed when other chemicals break down. Formaldehyde is classified as a volatile organic compound (VOC).
When dissolved in water it is called formalin, which is commonly used as an industrial disinfectant, and as a preservative in funeral homes and medical labs. It can also be used as a preservative in some foods and in products, such as antiseptics, medicines, and cosmetics. Sometimes, although formaldehyde is not used, substances that release formaldehyde are. These have been found in cosmetics, soaps, shampoos, lotions and sunscreens, and cleaning products. 
Most formaldehyde produced in the United States is for the manufacture of resins, such as urea-formaldehyde, used to make the adhesives for pressed wood products, such as particleboard, furniture, paneling, cabinets, and other products. 
Formaldehyde is a colorless, flammable, strong-smelling chemical that is used in building materials and to produce many household products. 
Formaldehyde. Formaldehyde is a common chemical, found in many households and offices, in such products as carpets, upholstery, glues, dyes, permanent press clothes, markers, paints, and cigarettes (1,4). Acute, severe reactions to formaldehyde vapor-which has a distinctive, pungent odor-may be associated with hypersensitivity. It is estimated that 10 to 20 percent of the U.S. population, including asthmatics, may have hyperreactive airways which may make them more susceptible to formaldehyde's effects (3).