Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Corduroy is the word used to describe a type of fabric that has parallel, lengthwise cords or ridges. The word is derived from the French word for Cord of the King.. Originally made of cotton, the fibers of the fabric are normally twisted as they are woven. The name brings to mind the term Corduroy Road.. This is a type of road, much like a plank road, but with entire logs used instead of flat planks. Much like the cords in fabric, the logs are placed perpendicular to the direction of the road, usually over a wet, muddy, or swampy landscape.
-noun 1. a cotton-filling pile fabric with lengthwise cords or ridges. 2. corduroys, trousers made of this fabric. -adjective 3. of, pertaining to, or resembling corduroy. 4. … constructed of logs laid together transversely, as a road across swampy ground. -verb (used with object) 5. to form (a road or the like) by laying logs transversely. 6. to make a corduroy road across or along. Corduroy pants are trousers or jeans made with corduroy fabric, a cut-pile fabric like velvet with ribs (narrow, medium or wide). From a distance, narrow wales corduroy look l … ike velvet. Pants or jeans made of corduroy are called corduroys or manch (in Britain).
Corduroy is found in the construction of trousers, jackets and shirts. The width of the cord is commonly referred to as the size of the wale (i.e. the number of ridges per inch). The lower the wale number, the thicker the width of the wale (e.g., 4-wale is much thicker than 11-wale). Corduroy is made by weaving extra sets of fiber into the base fabric to form vertical ridges called wales. The wales are built so that clear lines can be seen when they are cut into pile. The primary types of corduroy are:
The noun CORDUROY has 2 senses: 1. a cut pile fabric with vertical ribs; usually made of cotton. 2. a road made of logs laid crosswise. Familiarity information: CORDUROY used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (corduroy is a kind of...): cloth; fabric; material; textile (artifact made by weaving or felting or knitting or crocheting natural or synthetic fibers). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of corduroy): Bedford cord (a heavy corded fabric similar to corduroy; used for clothing).
Full Definition of CORDUROY. 1. a plural: trousers of corduroy fabric b: a durable usually cotton pile fabric with vertical ribs or wales. 2. : logs laid side by side transversely to make a road surface. See corduroy defined for English-language learners. See corduroy defined for kids. 
Apparel & Fashion Fabric. Corduroy Fabric. Corduroy is the quintessential cool-weather fabric and comes in a variety of weights and colors. The width of the cord is commonly referred to as the size of the “wale,” or number of cords per inch. The lower the wale number, the thicker the width of the wale (i.e. 4-wale is much thicker than 11-wale). 
Corduroy. Corduroy is a textile composed of twisted fibers that, when woven, lie parallel to one another to form the cloth's distinct pattern, a cord.. Modern corduroy is most commonly composed of tufted cords, sometimes exhibiting a channel between the tufts. Corduroy is, in essence, a ridged form of velvet. As a fabric, corduroy is considered a durable cloth. Corduroy is found in the construction of trousers, jackets and shirts. The width of the cord is commonly referred to as the size of the wale. The lower the wale number, the thicker the width
Corduroy is, in essence, a ridged form of velvet. The fabric looks as if it is made from multiple cords laid parallel to each other and then stitched together. The interpretation of the word as corde du roi (from French, the cord of the King) is a folk etymology. Corduroy is made by weaving extra sets of fiber into the base fabric to form vertical ridges called wales. The wales are built so that clear lines can be seen when they are cut into pile. The primary types of corduroy are: