Cut the asparagus to fit into your steamer basket. Cover and steam until the asparagus are bright green and tender, but still somewhat crisp, about 6 to 8 minutes for thick asparagus and 3 to 5 minutes for thin asparagus. Remove from the steamer and season with salt and pepper. Recipe courtesy of Wolfgang Puck, 2003.
1 Trim the dry ends off of the asparagus. 2  If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 3  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 4  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender. 1 If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 2  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 3
Heat a large frying pan over high heat, add cooking oil or butter and asparagus and cook, stirring, until the asparagus is tender, about 5 minutes depending on how thick the spears are. Try this recipe for Sauteed Asparagus and Morels to get a real hit of spring. Steamed Asparagus With Vinaigrette and Egg. Cover and cook until asparagus is tender, 4 to 8 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus stalks. Steamed asparagus is frequently served with a bit of butter and salt. Traditionally it is napped with a bit of hollandaise sauce.
You want the steam to cook the asparagus, not the hot water – that would be boiling! Cover the asparagus, and let it steam until it's cooked to your liking. It'll take 5 to 15 minutes, depending on how thick the asparagus is and how tender you like it. You can leave a little vent for steam to escape. Preparation Steps. Before we look at how to steam asparagus, there a few preparation steps we need to look at. Asparagus is one of the easiest vegetables to prepare, but if you don't do it right, you can end up with tough, woody vegetables, and that's not really all that great.
1 Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 2  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender. 1 If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 2  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 3
Consider steaming Asparagus in a skillet instead. Fill a skillet with ½ cup (120 milliliters) of water per ½ pound (225 grams) of asparagus. Add the asparagus, and cover the skillet with a lid. Boil over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes, or until the asparagus turns bright green and tender. If you are cooking for multiple people, plan on having 3 to 5 spears per serving. Fresh asparagus will keep in the fridge for 3 to 4 days. 1  If a recipe calls for 1 pound (450 grams) of asparagus, you will need 12 to 15 large spears, or 16 to 20 small spears.
Asparagus is usually steamed as whole stalks, but it can be steamed cut into bite-size pieces, if you like. Whether you steam it whole or chopped, place asparagus in a steamer rack and set over boiling water. Cover and cook until asparagus is tender, 4 to 8 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus stalks. Steamed asparagus is frequently served with a bit of butter and salt. Traditionally it is napped with a bit of hollandaise sauce.
How to Cook Asparagus on the Stove. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender.
Set the microwave on high heat and cook the asparagus about 2 minutes and 30 seconds. If you want your asparagus to be more tender, cook it for another 30 seconds or so. Be sure not to overcook asparagus. you can stand the asparagus up in a small sause pan with water.. and cook for 10 minutes. then lay them down for the last 5 minutes of cooking .. this way the ends don’t get soft and mushy. a bit of butter and salt.. don’t make cooking hard than it is ..
1 Add salt and butter, and bring to a boil. 2  Trim the dry ends off of the asparagus. 3  If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 4  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 5  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender. 1 If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 2  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 3