Geography. The average rainfall that a freshwater ecosystem receives depends on the geographic location. According to Blue Planet Biomes, tropical rainforests receive 50 to 260 inches of rain per year.
The climate of freshwater biomes is determined by by a number of factors including location, season and depth of water as the most prominent ones (W2). On average the temperatures will decline as the water gets deeper.
Average Rainfall. The average rainfall is 6 inches on the streets. It floods the streets yearly.Also, most every year it floods my Dad's farm. You can only go about 20 ft. before you are in the water (or you can at least see the water).
Most freshwater wetlands are located on the outskirts of large bodies of water or low lying areas where the water accumulates. Rainfall: The average rainfall in a freshwater wetland is 59 inches or 150 centimeters to 200 inches or 500 centimeters. The freshwater wetlands get their large amount of precipitation because of their low elevation and the latitude location where they are at is located by both the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer.
The precipitation maps shown here describe rainfall plus snowfall that reaches the land surface in an average year. Rain is the liquid form of water falling to the land surface where as Snow is the solid form of water. Both rainfall and snowfall are important sources of freshwater in the earth’s land-surface system.
The average temperature in winter is 30 degrees Fahrenheit. The average rainfall in a freshwater wetland is 59 inches or 150 centimeters to 200 inches or 500 centimeters. The freshwater wetlands get their large amount of precipitation because of their low elevation and the latitude location where they are at is located by both the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer.
Climate of a Freshwater Biome. The freshwater biome covers only 0.8% of the total water on this Earth, yet the water which makes up this biome are distributed unevenly throughout the globe (W2). As a result the climate of these Biomes is greatly diverse depending on the region (W2).