6. OVEN BAKED PORK CHOPS WITH STUFFING. Place pork chops in greased shallow ... with foil and bake in a 350 F oven for 1 hour ... vegetable juice, and you will have your whole meal complete. Serves 4.
How to Broil Pork Chops in a Convection Toaster Oven Photo Credit Diane Shear/Demand Media. Cooking with a convection toaster oven produces faster cooking than in a regular oven by using fans to force heat through the oven and surround the food rather than the heat coming only from the top or bottom. Pork chops, a lean cut of pork loin, are succulent and juicy when broiled in a convection oven. Low in calories and high in protein, pork chops are an excellent source of B vitamins. For a healthy dinner prepared quickly, your convection toaster oven is an essential kitchen aid to broil pork chops.
You would follow the same directions you … would use for a regular oven. Set the temperature the same, and place a few on the baking sheet that comes with the toaster oven. To prevent a crispy bottom of the cookie, use a silicone mat and cut to the size of your toaster oven baking tray. The time for cooking can depend on the thickness of the meat but normally the average time is about half an hour. If you like to eat a plain baked pork chop, you can season the meat with freshly ground pepper and salt before baking. Hope this helps
Set the chops aside to warm while the oven finishes heating. Remove the skillet from the oven: Using oven mitts, carefully remove the hot skillet from the oven and set it over medium-high heat on the stovetop. Turn on a vent fan or open a window. Sear the pork chops: Lay the pork chops in the hot skillet. Instructions. 1  Brine the pork chops (optional): If you have time, brining the pork for even a brief period adds flavor and ensures juiciness in the finished chop. 2  Bring 1 cup of the water to a boil, add the salt and optional flavorings, and stir to dissolve the salt.
Step 3. Place your meat on your foil rack and sprinkle the meat with salt and pepper. Slide the tray into your toaster oven and turn on the oven's broiler, positioning your toaster oven's rack so that the top of the meat will be at least 3 inches from the heating element. 
Pork chops should be baked for 45 minutes, in a convection oven, at  a temperature of 325A°. 325â pork chops should not be considered  done until the internal temperature is … a minimum OF°. 165a 165â 6 people found. this useful The time for cooking can depend on the thickness of the meat but normally the average time is about half an hour. If you like to eat a plain baked pork chop, you can season the meat with freshly ground pepper and salt before baking. Hope this helps.
salt and pepper, to taste. Wash the pork chops then salt and pepper both sides. Layer them in an oblong Pyrex or bakeware dish that has been sprayed with Pam. Sprinkle the top side of the pork chops with chili powder. Cover securely with foil and bake 1 hour in 350 F. oven.
Sweet & Sour Sauce-http://goo.gl/FYFC8J. I usually cook porch chops in the oven at 350 degrees for 30 minutes to one hour. This depends upon the thickness of the pork chop. Also, always thaw the porck chops before baking them. 