Lovage has been grown occasionally as a garden plant in Florida. The best soils are well drained and of the same fertility required for most garden vegetables. Lovage is propagated from seed or by root divisions. Seeds that retain viability for 2 to 3 years may be planted in the garden in the fall through spring. Lightly cover seeds with a sprinkling of sand. Like angelica (A. archangelica), lovage seeds and stems are used in candy-making. Also, the leafstalk and blanched lower portion of the stem are eaten like celery. Lovage imparts a celery-like flavor to soups and stews. This umbelliferous plant is of Mediterranean origin. Its name derives from the Latin ligusticus, the name of the Italian shore opposite Genoa where it grew wil
Ancient Greeks and Romans commonly used the seeds, leaves, and roots in their cooking. Today, lovage is a favorite flavoring in Britain and southeastern Europe. It is eaten cooked or raw. The leaves are used in soups, stocks, flavored vinegars, pickles, stews, and salads. The Romans, who introduced lovage to Europe, used it widely in their cooking as well as to reduce fevers and treat stomach ailments. Germans called it maggikraut because its aroma reminded them of maggi cubes (meaty yeast extracts). Today it is popular in South and Central European cuisines.
Lovage belongs to the parsley family, and its seeds, leaves, and roots are commonly used in Europe for flavoring foods and beverages and for their medicinal properties. The Romans, who introduced lovage to Europe, used it widely in their cooking as well as to reduce fevers and treat stomach ailments. Germans called it maggikraut because its aroma reminded them of maggi cubes (meaty yeast extracts). Today it is popular in South and Central European cuisines.
Spice Description. Also known as sea parsley, the leaves and stem of the lovage plant add an intense celery-like flavour to soups, stews and stocks or pork and poultry dishes. It can also be used to enhance the flavour of potato dishes. The Romans, who introduced lovage to Europe, used it widely in their cooking as well as to reduce fevers and treat stomach ailments. Germans called it maggikraut because its aroma reminded them of maggi cubes (meaty yeast extracts). Today it is popular in South and Central European cuisines.
The leaves can be used in salads, or to make soup or season broths, and the roots can be eaten as a vegetable or grated for use in salads. Its flavor and smell is somewhat similar to celery. The seeds can be used as a spice, similar to fennel seeds. In the UK, an alcoholic lovage cordial is traditionally mixed with brandy in the ratio of 2:1 as a winter drink. In Romania, the leaves are the preferred seasoning for the various local broths, much more so than parsley or dill. The name lovage is from love-ache, ache being a medieval name for parsley; this is a folk-etymological corruption of the older French name levesche, from late Latin levisticum, in turn thought to be a corruption of the earlier Latin ligusticum, of Liguria  (northwest Italy), where the herb was grown extensively.
Lovage is an erect, herbaceous, perennial plant growing to 1.8–2.5 m (5.9–8.2 ft) tall, with a basal rosette of leaves and stems with further leaves, the flowers being produced in umbels at the top of the stems. The name lovage is from love-ache, ache being a medieval name for parsley; this is a folk-etymological corruption of the older French name levesche, from late Latin levisticum, in turn thought to be a corruption of the earlier Latin ligusticum, of Liguria  (northwest Italy), where the herb was grown extensively.
Pronunciation: [LUHV-ihj]. The French call lovage celeri céleri, batard bâtard, false celery because of its strong resemblance to. That plant lovage has been Used since Greek and roman times for everything from, a seasoning to a curative for maladies ranging from indigestion, to freckles to a. love potion The leaves, seeds and stalks can be used (in small amounts because of their potent flavor) in salads, stews and other dishes such as fowl and game. The stalks can be cooked as a vegetable. Dried lovage leaves and chopped or powdered stalks can be found in natural food stores and gourmet markets. The seeds are commonly called celery seed. Lovage is also called smallage and smellage.
History. Lovage is a herb which belongs to the Apiaceae family derived its name from the Latin word denoting ‘Ligurian’ which was thrived from Liguria a province that comprises the Italian Riviera.Lovage came to America with the English colonists and was brought over for both food and medicine. Description. Lovage is a hardy perennial herb, with ribbed stalks and hollow stems that divide into branches near the top. The thick, erect hollow and channelled stems grow 3 or 4 feet or even more in height. The stems bear umbels of yellow flowers about 30 mm across similar to those of Fennel or Parsnip.