Loan Limits. In most parts of the country, veterans who qualify for the VA Loan can purchase a home worth up to $417,000 without putting any money down; however, with the 2013 VA Loan Limits, borrowers in high-cost counties may be able to purchase homes far exceeding that amount without a down payment. 
How to Apply. Purchase Loan & Cash-Out Refinance: VA loans are obtained through a lender of your choice once you obtain a Certificate of Eligibility (COE). You can obtain a COE through eBenefits, by mail, and often through you lender. Learn More. Adapted Housing Grants: You can apply for an SAH or SHA grant by either downloading and completing VA Form 26-4555 (PDF) and submitting it to your nearest Regional Loan Center, or completing the online application. Learn More.
Veterans can apply for a VA loan with any mortgage lender that participates in the VA home loan program, but will need a Certificate of Eligibility from the VA to prove to the lender they are eligible for a VA loan. Lenders can also get the certificate on behalf of their clients. 
Refinancing a conventional loan into a VA home loan. If you don't have a VA home loan but would be eligible for one, you may refinance your conventional mortgage into a VA loan. Generally, most members of the military, veterans, reservists and National Guard members are eligible to apply for a VA home loan. The biggest advantage of refinancing with a VA home loan is that homeowners can refinance up to 100 percent of the home's value, and they don't have to pay for mortgage insurance. A non-VA home loan normally requires some equity in the house.
You can apply for a VA home loan at any mortgage company that is VA approved and participates in the VA home loan program. One of the fastest ways to apply is to call 866-437-7385 to be immediately connected with a licensed lender or complete a short form online. 
If you try to apply for a VA home loan without a DD214, the application process will come to a halt early in the process, because the Department of Veterans Affairs requires not only proof of service, but also proof of the nature of your discharge from the military. 
A: Complete a VA Form 26-1880, Request for a Certificate of Eligibility: You can apply for a Certificate of Eligibility by submitting a completed VA Form 26-1880, Request For A Certificate of Eligibility For Home Loan Benefits, to the Winston-Salem Eligibility Center, along with proof of military service. A: You can apply for a VA loan with any mortgage lender that participates in the VA home loan program.
There are county limits that determine the VA's maximum guaranty amount for a loan. Generally, you can get a loan up to $417,000 with no money down and up to $1,094,000, in some high-cost places. VA home loans are provided by private lenders such as banks and mortgage companies, with VA guaranteeing a portion of the loan. This gives the home buyer more favorable terms. Download a free VA Loan Guide today.
You can apply for a VA loan with any mortgage lender that participtes in the VA home loan program with a Certificate of Eligibility from VA. VA home loans are provided by private lenders such as banks and mortgage companies, with VA guaranteeing a portion of the loan. This gives the home buyer more favorable terms. Download a free VA Loan Guide today.