Chapter Four. At a Sunday morning party at Gatsby's, Nick hears further gossip about Gatsby from a group of foolish young women. They say that he is a bootlegger who killed a man who discovered that he was nephew to von Hindenburg and second cousin to the devil. One morning, Gatsby invites Nick to lunch in the city. He proudly displays his Rolls-Royce, then abruptly asks Nick what he thinks of him.
Nick goes back to Gatsby's for another party. Nick gives a detailed list of all of those in attendance and just what kind of people he thought they were. One morning Gatsby's car pulled up in Nick's driveway. Gatsby tells Nick that they are going to be going to lunch together and Nick agrees. 
Summary. Nick lists all of the people who attended Gatsby’s parties that summer, a roll call of the nation’s most wealthy and powerful people. He then describes a trip that he took to New York with Gatsby to eat lunch. As they drive to the city, Gatsby tells Nick about his past, but his story seems highly improbable. She relates that Gatsby told her that he is in love with Daisy Buchanan. According to Jordan, during the war, before Daisy married Tom, she was a beautiful young girl in Louisville, Kentucky, and all the military officers in town were in love with her.
Generally, the list is a testament to both East Egg and West Egg: an example and glorification of the party nature of both old and new money. Gatsby's parties are one of the few things that could unify this group of rich separated by the bay. In Gatsby Chap. 4, the guest list...is there any particular significance to the fact that a huge number of last names were animals?Included among guests are Roebuck, Klipspringer, and...
Posted on. (Answer #1). In Chapter 4 of his book “The Great Gatsby,” Fitzgerald’s detailed description of Gatsby’s lavish party underlines Gatsby’s wealth and love of extravagance. The reader is told that there are four types of guests at Gatsby’s party. (1) Guests that were invited by Gatsby (probably only Nick and Jordan), (2) Rich middle-aged men, seeking entertainment; (3) Young bodacious women, musicians, and performers; (4) Guests who were not invited by who attend anyway to enjoy the entertainment.
Gatsby links. chapter fourNick presents us with a list of Gatsby s many different party guests. Much humor and insight comes from the names listed: The Leeches, James B. (Rot-Gut E Ferret, S.W. Belcher, Miss Haag, etc. The list of guests had been written down by Nick and headed This schedule in effect July 5th, 1922. 
This is so we get a sense of the type of people who come to Gatsby's parties. There is a theme here. They are generally rich and have little interest in Gatsby himself (other than the mystery behind him). Fitzgerald generally describes them as self-absorbed and only interested in the excess of the party, the people came like moths to the flame..