Be the first to review this Drug. Vasopressin is a man-made form of a hormone called anti-diuretic hormone that is normally secreted by the pituitary gland. Vasopressin acts on the kidneys and blood vessels. You should not receive vasopressin if you are allergic to it. To make sure vasopressin is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  coronary artery disease (hardened arteries); 2  heart disease; 3  kidney disease; 4  asthma; 5  migraine headaches; or. 6  epilepsy or other seizure disorder.
Vasopressin is a peptide hormone that increases water permeability of the kidney's collecting duct and distal convoluted tubule by inducing translocation of aquaporin-CD water channels in the plasma membrane of collecting duct cells. Vasopressin released within the brain has many actions: 1  Vasopressin is released into the brain in a circadian rhythm by neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. 2  Vasopressin released from centrally projecting hypothalamic neurons is involved in aggression, blood pressure regulation, and temperature regulation.
Descriptions. Vasopressin injection is used to control the frequent urination, increased thirst, and loss of water caused by diabetes insipidus. This is a condition that causes the body to lose too much water and become dehydrated. It acts on the kidneys to reduce the flow of urine. Vasopressin injection is also used to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock (eg, post-cardiotomy, sepsis) who remain to have low blood pressure after receiving fluids and medicines. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
In the body, vasopressin acts on the kidneys and blood vessels. Vasopressin helps prevent the loss of water from the body by reducing urine output and helping the kidneys reabsorb water in the body. Vasopressin also raises blood pressure by constricting (narrowing) blood vessels. Vasopressin is used to treat diabetes insipidus, which is caused by a lack of this naturally occurring pituitary hormone in the body. 
Vasopressin is a man-made form of a hormone called anti-diuretic hormone that is normally secreted by the pituitary gland. In the body, vasopressin acts on the kidneys and blood vessels. Vasopressin helps prevent the loss of water from the body by reducing urine output and helping the kidneys reabsorb water in the body. Vasopressin also raises blood pressure by constricting (narrowing) blood vessels
Antidiuretic hormone, ADH or vasopressin. The antidiuretic hormone, ADH, also called vasopressin and arginine-vasopressin, is a nanopeptide (nine amino acids) synthesized in the hypothalamus, transported to and stored in the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland which releases it into the blood circulation. It has antidiuretic and vasopressor actions. 
Vasopressin injection is also used to prevent and treat abdominal or stomach distension that occurs after surgery. It is also used in abdominal or stomach roentgenography. Vasopressin is a hormone that is produced in the body. It acts on the kidneys to reduce the flow of urine. Vasopressin injection is also used to increase blood pressure in adults with vasodilatory shock (eg, post-cardiotomy, sepsis) who remain to have low blood pressure after receiving fluids and medicines. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Vasopressin is used to treat diabetes insipidus, which is caused by a lack of this naturally occurring pituitary hormone in the body. Vasopressin is also used to treat or prevent certain conditions of the stomach after surgery or during abdominal x-rays. In the body, vasopressin acts on the kidneys and blood vessels. Vasopressin helps prevent the loss of water from the body by reducing urine output and helping the kidneys reabsorb water
Vasopressin also raises blood pressure by narrowing blood vessels. Vasopressin is used to treat diabetes insipidus, which is caused by a lack of this naturally occurring pituitary hormone in the body. Vasopressin is also used to treat or prevent certain conditions of the stomach after surgery or during abdominal x-rays. You should not receive vasopressin if you are allergic to it. To make sure vasopressin is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  coronary artery disease (hardened arteries); 2  heart disease; 3  kidney disease; 4  asthma; 5  migraine headaches; or. 6  epilepsy or other seizure disorder.
Vasopressin, also known as arginine vasopressin (AVP), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), or argipressin, is a neurohypophysial hormone found in most mammals. Its two primary functions are to retain water in the body and to constrict blood vessels. Vasopressin released within the brain has many actions: 1  Vasopressin is released into the brain in a circadian rhythm by neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. 2  Vasopressin released from centrally projecting hypothalamic neurons is involved in aggression, blood pressure regulation, and temperature regulation.