Microfiber-a high-tech blend of polyester and polyamide (nylon) that makes for superior cleaning capabilities. The fibers are 100 times thinner than a human hair. Microfiber's absorbing power is quicker than normal cotton. Like a sponge, fine pores absorb water as well as lift and trap dust, dirt, bacteria, and grime. Unlike cotton and other materials, microfiber actually grabs on to the dirt and dust and pulls it away from the surface. It does not scratch, but it acts as a trap for dirt, bacteria, and dust. The pictures below illustrate how it works. Microfiber is far superior at removing dirt, dust, bacteria, etc.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Microfiber is a type of material that is primarily used as an upholstery fabric because of it strong and durable nature, but it can also be found in other household products such as drapes, linens, and cleaning tools like mops. Also, seeing as microfiber is such a cheap cost product, the majority of the furniture it is used on will also be of equally cheap construction. A quality furniture making company is not going to cover their superior quality constructed pieces in an inferior fabric option. Common sense!
Microfiber is not a single fiber type, like rayon, polyester, nylon or acetate, which can all be microfibers if they are extruded in a fine enough filament. The industry definition of a microfiber is a manufactured fiber with filaments finer than one denier. Polyester is lyophillic, or has an affinity to oil, so that oil and grease adhere directly to the fibers. Polyamide is hydrophilic, which means it has an affinity to water. As a result, any type of dirt is very quickly and completed removed with Microfiber, leaving a sparkling-clean, streak-free surface.
The term “ microfiber ” is based on the size of a fiber measuring below 1.0 denier (the diameter or fineness of a continuous or filament fiber—the lower the number, the finer the fiber, which in turn is more effective for cleaning surfaces). Microfiber is traditionally defined as a fiber with a denier of less than one. Denier is a measure of thinness of fiber and is the weight in grams of a continuous fiber of 9,000 meters.
Microfiber cloth, or more simply microfiber, is the synthetic fabric of the future. Each microfiber product consists of microscopic strands that are interwoven into a fabric to fulfill certain characteristics depending on what the given product will be used for. Microfiber is a synthetic man-made fiber that is finer than 1.3 denier or decitex/thread. In more simple terms, microfiber is 1/100th the diameter of a human hair and 1/20th the diameter of a strand of silk!
How to Buy Microfiber Sheets. Microfiber is a fabric used to make knitted, woven and non-woven textiles. It is a synthetic fiber known for its durability, softness, and water repellant properties. The fibers are extra fine, which makes microfiber sheets comfortable for most people to use. 
Microfiber is composed of very finely woven fibers, defined by their thickness, or denier, which is the measurement of a fiber’s thickness. A high denier points to a material of higher thickness, a low denier is one of lower thickness. For a material to be considered microfiber, it must be less than 1 denier in diameter. For comparison, consider that fine silk measures at 1.25 deniers; thus, microfibers are made in the lab instead of forming naturally in nature. They can be made from wood pulp, or polyester and nylon polymers.
Microfiber or microfibre is synthetic fiber finer than one denier or decitex /thread. This is smaller than the diameter of a strand of silk, which is itself about 1/5 the diameter of a human hair. The most common types of microfibers are made from polyesters, polyamides (e.g., nylon, Kevlar, Nomex, trogamide), or a conjugation of polyester, polyamide, and polypropylene (Prolen). Microfiber is used to make mats, knits, and weaves for apparel, upholstery, industrial filters, and cleaning products. Microfiber is used to make many accessories that traditionally have been made from leather: wallets, handbags, backpacks, shoes, cell phone cases, and coin purses. Microfiber fabric is lightweight, durable, and somewhat water repellent, so it makes a good substitute.
Best Answer: (m) Microfiber consists of very fine threads of polyester and polyamide (nylon) that combine to form a single thread. One Microfiber is 100 times thinner than a single strand of human hair. When they are woven together, the Microfibers create a surface area 40 times greater than that of a regular fiber. Polyester is lyophillic, or has an affinity to oil, so that oil and grease adhere directly to the fibers. Polyamide is hydrophilic, which means it has an affinity to water. As a result, any type of dirt is very quickly and completed removed with Microfiber, leaving a sparkling-clean, streak-free surface.