1 Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  The water should come to a full, rolling boil. 4  Turn off the heat and cover the pan. Instructions. 1  Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  The water should come to a full, rolling boil.
Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. Once cooked, plunge the hard-boiled egg into plenty of cold water for one minute. 
When the water is boiling, take the egg and gently lower it into the water with a spoon. Boil it for just on 4 minutes. For a soft-boiled egg, take it out and serve straight away. For a hard-boiled egg, turn off the heat and leave the egg in the pan for 10 minutes. 5. To hard boil an egg - 100% perfect every time: Eggs in pot-just cover with cold water do NOT cover with lid. Over medium heat bring to the boil-as soon as gently boiling, place lid on pot (ensure steam vent is off if this is a feature on lid) and turn heat OFF.
Place the eggs in the pot, cover it and bring it to a boil. Boil the eggs 3 minutes for soft boiled eggs or 10 minutes for hard boiled. 1. Put in water in a large pot and boil on very high heat. 2. When it starts to boil violently, add goose egg. 3. Cover pot for around 6-8 minutes. (sometimes up to 12 min … utes) 4. Enjoy.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel.
Boil water alone in the microwave. Put enough water to submerge the eggs into a microwave safe bowl, leaving at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) clearance at the top. Heat for at least three minutes, or however long it takes for the water to begin to boil. Heating the water in advance reduces the risk of exploding the shell, although a few cracks may still occur
Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool