By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY. Donald Henry Parker, who invented a color-coded reading program 40 years ago that has been used by millions of schoolchildren around the world, died on June 14 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 88. 
Welcome to the National Institute for Direct Instruction. The National Institute for Direct Instruction (NIFDI) is the world's foremost Direct Instruction (DI) support provider. This website provides information and resources for administrators, teachers and parents to help them maximize student achievement through DI. 
In 1957, it moved into individualized classroom instruction with the iconic SRA Reading Laboratory Kit, a format that later translated to mathematics, science, and social studies. Commonly called SRA cards, the labs were large boxes filled with color-coded cardboard sheets. In the early 2000s (decade), the company was purchased by McGraw-Hill Education and the brand name and products are now part of the PreK-12 business of McGraw-Hill Education. The Imagine It! reading program was launched in 2007.
SRA may refer to: 1  The National Center for Biotechnology Information's Sequence Read Archive (previously known as the Short Read Archive). 2  SRA, a particular type of Semiregular variable star. 3  Suicide risk assessment. 4  Satanic ritual abuse. 5  Spoon River Anthology. 
Reading. SRA Reading Laboratory™ 2.0 is an interactive, personalized reading practice program based on the classic SRA Reading Laboratory print program created by Don H. Parker, Ph.D. SRA Reading Laboratories provide a range of reading levels to encourage students to learn at their own pace, and personalized instruction helps meet the needs of all students at all grade and reading levels. Visit the SRA Reading Labs website for more information about the entire Labs Series for Grades K-12.
Despite being an IBM subsidiary, SRA produced both IBM PC and Apple II software in the 1980s. Maxwell Communications Corporation bought SRA in 1988. SRA became part of Macmillan/McGraw-Hill when the joint venture with McGraw-Hill was created in 1989. When Maxwell Communications collapsed, McGraw-Hill acquired full ownership of Macmillan/McGraw-Hill and SRA. In the early 2000s (decade), the company was purchased by McGraw-Hill Education and the brand name and products are now part of the PreK-12 business of McGraw-Hill Education. The Imagine It! reading program was launched in 2007.
Today, most K-12 education uses a modernized version of the original program. Previously known as DISTAR, an acronym for Direct Instruction System for Teaching Arithmetic and Reading, and created by SRA/McGraw-Hill, modern programs offer standard lesson plans for Reading and Arithmetic based on grade level. Though direct instruction is probably the oldest form of teaching, it came into a more modern light when a program was created by a professor at Johns Hopkins University in the mid-1980s as a way to address the problems of inner-city Baltimore schools.
SRA Reading Laboratories have been helping students improve their reading skills for 50 years! SRA Reading Laboratories provide a range of reading levels to encourage students to learn at their own pace, and personalized instruction helps meet the needs of all students at all grade and reading levels. Visit the SRA Reading Labs website for more information about the entire Labs Series for Grades K-12.
Since the 1960s, SRA has been the publisher of Direct Instruction programs, also known as DISTAR (Direct Instruction System for Teaching Arithmetic and Reading). These include Language for Learning, Reading Mastery, Reasoning and Writing, Connecting Math Concepts and Corrective Reading. In the early 2000s (decade), the company was purchased by McGraw-Hill Education and the brand name and products are now part of the PreK-12 business of McGraw-Hill Education. The Imagine It! reading program was launched in 2007.