Concerning how long does grass seed take to grow, if the conditions are good and the variety of grass used is of the type that grows fast, within a week’s time the result may be a lush green patch in the lawn. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster. As discussed earlier about how long does grass seed take to grow, the two seasons which are most suitable for sowing of grass seeds is spring and fall.
The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days. The climate condition during which the seed is sown is also very essential for the seeds to germinate faster and to grow. If the seed is sown during the time of year when it is wet the grass is most likely to germinate faster. As discussed earlier about how long does grass seed take to grow, the two seasons which are most suitable for sowing of grass seeds is spring and fall.
Replanting New Grass Seed. Grass is a fast growing plant, but the exact rate at which it grows depends upon the type of grass used and the growing conditions. Germination. Grass seeds usually germinate between seven and ten days after they have been sown, although it can take between three and thirty days. Growth. A fast growing variety of grass sown under good growing conditions will produce a green covering in about a week, although it will not yet be properly establish
Cool-season grasses tend to germinate quickly, usually between three and 14 days. Perennial rye grass (Lolium perenne), which thrives in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 8, can germinate in as few as five days, although it can take up to 10 days, for example. Grass seed often begins to germinate in less than a month, which means you should start to see tiny green shoots in the areas you seeded. Establishment of those shoots into a lush, full lawn can take well into the growing season, but it should begin to resemble the lawn you want after you mow it the first time.
Annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum) and perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) seeds germinate in five to 10 days. Rough bluegrass (Poa trivialis) seeds take seven to 10 days. Tall fescue (Lolium arundinaceum) seeds germinate in seven to 12 days. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the fall. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
How long does it take for grass seed to germinate? (See also How long does it take for seed to grow). Depending on the conditions, you can expect to see some grass seed mixtures germinate quite quickly. If conditions at the time of sowing are perfect, you may see germination is as little as 2-4 days. On average though, germination will take between 7-14 days
Buffalograss (Stenotaphrum secundatum) seeds take 14 to 30 days to germinate. Plant 1 pound of Bermudagrass seeds per 1,000 square feet in late spring or early summer. For the same area, plant 1 1/2 to 2 pounds of buffalo grass in spring or fall. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
1 GERMINATION: Under ideal conditions, hulled seeds can germinate within 3 to 7 days. 2  IF conditions are NOT ideal, it is quite normal for Bermuda seeds to take 14 to 21 days for germination to occur. 
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 
How long does it take for seed to grow. Different seed mixtures establish at different speeds. As a general rule, hardwearing mixtures usually contain ryegrass and red fescue, two species that establish quite quickly-they can germinate in as little as 3-4 days, but 7-10 days is more average.