An engineer is a professional practitioner of engineering, concerned with applying scientific knowledge, mathematics, and ingenuity to develop solutions for technical, societal and commercial problems. Engineers apply techniques of engineering analysis in testing, production, or maintenance. Analytical engineers may supervise production in factories and elsewhere, determine the causes of a process failure, and test output to maintain quality.
What You Need To Know About Engineering! Engineering combines the fields of science and maths to solve real world problems that improve the world around us. What really distinguishes an engineer is his ability to implement ideas in a cost effective and practical approach. This ability to take a thought, or abstract idea, and translate it into reality is what separates an engineer from other fields of science and mathematics. 
Engineers design materials, structures, and systems while considering the limitations imposed by practicality, regulation, safety, and cost. The word engineer is derived from the Latin words ingeniare (to contrive, devise) and ingenium (cleverness). Engineers apply techniques of engineering analysis in testing, production, or maintenance. Analytical engineers may supervise production in factories and elsewhere, determine the causes of a process failure, and test output to maintain quality.
Mechanical engineers are typically involved with the generation, distribution, and use of energy; the processing of materials; the control and automation of manufacturing systems; the design and development of machines; and the solutions to environmental problems. A mechanical engineering degree is an excellent foundation for success in the engineering profession and also for further training and subsequent achievement in other disciplines including business, law, and the sciences. Professional opportunities for mechanical engineering graduates are too numerous to list.
Full Definition of ENGINEERING. 1. : the activities or function of an engineer. 2. a: the application of science and mathematics by which the properties of matter and the sources of energy in nature are made useful to people. 3. See engineering defined for English-language learners. See engineering defined for kids. : the work of designing and creating large structures (such as roads and bridges) or new products or systems by using scientific methods. : the control or direction of something (such as behavior).
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Engineering category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Engineering jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K. 
To embody an invention the engineer must put his idea in concrete terms, and design something that people can use. That something can be a device, a gadget, a material, a method, a computing program, an innovative experiment, a new solution to a problem, or an improvement on what is existing. 1 Chemical engineering – The application of physics, chemistry, biology, and engineering principles in order to carry out chemical processes on a commercial scale, such as petroleum refining, microfabrication, fermentation, and biomolecule production.
During the engineering design process, the responsibilities of the engineer may include defining problems, conducting and narrowing research, analyzing criteria, finding and analyzing solutions, and making decisions. Much of an engineer's time is spent on researching, locating, applying, and transferring information. Indeed, research suggests engineers spend 56% of their time engaged in various information behaviours, including 14% actively searching for information. Engineers apply techniques of engineering analysis in testing, production, or maintenance. Analytical engineers may supervise production in factories and elsewhere, determine the causes of a process failure, and test output to maintain quality.
The discipline of engineering is extremely broad, and encompasses a range of more specialized fields of engineering, each with a more specific emphasis on particular areas of applied science, technology and types of application. 1 Chemical engineering – The application of physics, chemistry, biology, and engineering principles in order to carry out chemical processes on a commercial scale, such as petroleum refining, microfabrication, fermentation, and biomolecule production.