1 Place 1/2 tablespoon of butter onto the cut side of each half, then season with garlic powder and salt. 2  Close the potato halves together, and wrap tightly in the aluminum foil. 3  Bake potatoes directly on the oven rack for 40 minutes, or until tender.
1 This allows steam to escape from the baking potato. 2  Bake the potatoes: You can bake the potatoes directly on the oven rack, or you can place them a few inches apart on a foil-lined baking sheet. 3  Bake the potatoes for 50 to 60 minutes.
Oven-Baked Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Oven. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. You can lay them directly on the oven rack or place them on a baking sheet.
1 Bake the potatoes: You can bake the potatoes directly on the oven rack, or you can place them a few inches apart on a foil-lined baking sheet. 2  Bake the potatoes for 50 to 60 minutes. 3  Flip them over every 20 minutes or so and check them for doneness by piercing them with a fork.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Wash the potatoes and place them directly on the oven baking rack. Bake for 45 to 60 minutes, until very tender when pierced with a skewer. When the potatoes are done, cut them down the middle and squeeze both ends. Place a slice of butter in the middle of the potato, sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve hot.
1 Dot with cubes of butter. 2  Wrap tightly in the tin-foil, and cook on the grill about 30-45 minutes, or until potatoes are tender. ( 3 You may want to place foil packet on top of one more sheet of foil just to make sure it doesn't burn-depends on how hot the grill is!). 4  You can also bake in the oven at 375 for 45 minutes.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Wash the potatoes and place them directly on the oven baking rack. Bake for 45 to 60 minutes, until very tender when pierced with a skewer. When the potatoes are done, cut them down the middle and squeeze both ends. Place a slice of butter in the middle of the potato, sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve hot.
1 Wrap tightly in the tin-foil, and cook on the grill about 30-45 minutes, or until potatoes are tender. ( 2 You may want to place foil packet on top of one more sheet of foil just to make sure it doesn't burn-depends on how hot the grill is!). 3  You can also bake in the oven at 375 for 45 minutes.