Individuals with NMO develop optic neuritis, which causes pain in the eye and vision loss, and transverse myelitis, which causes weakness, numbness, and sometimes paralysis of the arms and legs, along with sensory disturbances and loss of bladder and bowel control. 
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO), also known as Devic's disease, is an autoimmune, inflammatory disorder in which a person's own immune system attacks the optic nerves and spinal cord. This produces an inflammation of the optic nerve (optic neuritis) and the spinal cord (myelitis). 
Devic's disease, or neuromyelitis optica, (NMO) is a type of inflammatory demyelinating disease. A demyelinating disease occurs when the myelin sheath, a protective covering that surrounds brain and spinal cord nerves is damaged. 1 NMO is an example of an autoimmune disease. 2  Experts are not sure why autoimmune diseases, such as NMO occur. 3  The immune system of a patient with NMO attacks the myelin sheath, the protective blanket for the spinal cord and optic nerve.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is an uncommon disease syndrome of the central nervous system (CNS) that affects the optic nerves and spinal cord. Recent discoveries, however, suggest it is a separate disease. NMO is different from MS in the severity of its attacks and its tendency to solely strike the optic nerves and spinal cord at the beginning of the disease.
AQP4+ NMO is currently considered an autoimmune disease (autoimmune astrocytopathy, or autoimmune astrocytic channelopathy) in which a person's own immune system attacks the astrocytes of the optic nerves and spinal cord. The cause of the AQP4- variants is unknown. Spinal cord lesions lead to varying degrees of weakness or paralysis in the legs or arms, loss of sensation (including blindness), and/or bladder and bowel dysfunction. Devic's disease is now studied along a collection of similar diseases called Neuromyelitis optica spectrum diseases.
(Devic’s syndrome). Neuromyelitis optica, sometimes called NMO, is a rare yet severe inflammatory process of the central nervous system. The condition mainly affects the spinal cord and the optic nerves, or the nerves that carry signals from the eyes to the brain. As a result, the disease can cause paralysis and blindness
Neuromyelitis Optica (NMO, also known as Devic’s disease) is an autoimmune condition characterised by inflammation (attacks) of the optic nerves (optic neuritis) and spinal cord (transverse myelitis). The exact cause of Neuromyelitis Optica is not fully understood. NMO is an auto-immune condition similar to rheumatoid arthritis. The body’s immune system does not recognise some of its own cells and therefore attacks them. Attacks or relapses in NMO are usually due to transverse myelitis and/or optic neuritis.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Neuromyelitis optica (NMO), also known as Devic's disease or Devic's syndrome, is a heterogeneous condition consisting of the simultaneous inflammation and demyelination of the optic nerve (optic neuritis) and the spinal cord (myelitis). It can be monophasic or recurrent. Spinal cord lesions lead to varying degrees of weakness or paralysis in the legs or arms, loss of sensation (including blindness), and/or bladder and bowel dysfunction. Devic's disease is now studied along a collection of similar diseases called Neuromyelitis optica spectrum diseases.