or. a hormone hormone,secretory substance carried from one gland or organ of the body via the bloodstream to more or less specific tissues, where it exerts some influence upon the metabolism of the target tissue......
The final important function of parathyroid hormone (PTH) is conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to its most active metabolite, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-3 [1,25-(OH) 2 D3], by activation of the enzyme 1-hydroxylase in the proximal tubules of the kidney.
To identify the well established endocrine glands in the body. To review some of the well-understood hormones that are produced by each gland or tissue. To identify some of the major target tissues for each gland or tissue. To understand a simplified function for each hormone that is reviewed.
Parathyroid hormone is the most important endocrine regulator of calcium and phosphorus concentration in extracellular fluid. This hormone is secreted from cells of the parathyroid glands and finds its major target cells in bone and kidney. Another hormone, parathyroid hormone-related protein, binds to the same receptor as parathyroid hormone and has major effects on development. Like most other protein hormones, parathyroid hormone is synthesized as a preprohormone.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH). Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is a polypeptide containing 84 amino acids that is secreted by the parathyroid glands after cleavage from preproparathyroid hormone (115 amino acids) to proparathyroid hormone (90 amino acids) to the mature hormone.
parathyroid hormone. or. a hormone hormone,secretory substance carried from one gland or organ of the body via the bloodstream to more or less specific tissues, where it exerts some influence upon the metabolism of the target tissue...... Click the link for more information.
Primary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) is the most common cause of elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) and calcium levels. Approximately 85% of cases are found to be caused by an isolated parathyroid adenoma, 15% by diffuse parathyroid hyperplasia, and less than 1% by parathyroid carcinoma.