Definition of PHO. : a soup made of beef or chicken broth and rice noodles. ADVERTISEMENT. Vietnamese phǫ̛. 
Best Answer: Pho is a kind of noodle made from rice. Pho is usually cooked like soup with many kinds of spice. So the difficulty to make it good depends on the spice U put in the soup. 
Pho. Phở is a Vietnamese noodle soup consisting of broth, linguine-shaped rice noodles, a few herbs, and meat. It is a popular street dish in Vietnam and the specialty of a number of restaurant chains around the world. Pho is primarily served with either beef or chicken
Contrary to what you were told, when you say Pho, you mean the soup itself, and not the noodle as you have written. I am Vietnamese, and when I go to a restaurant, I ask for Pho. That is a soup, which consists of the Pho noodles, varieties of meat, beef or chicken broth etc.. Pho is a broth-based noodle soup that features prominently in Vietnamese cuisine. The word is pronounced like fuh for English speakers, as the ph is said as the “f” sound.
The term pho actually refers to the noodles, not the soup. There are hundreds of different soups found around Vietnam. But pho is made with pristine white rice flour noodles that are made daily and sold in markets. To me, the most stunning part about slurping pho in the motherland was the quality of the noodles. 
Hanoi's first two fixed pho stands were a Vietnamese-owned Cat Cát tường On Cầu Gỗ street and A-chinese owned stand in front Of Bờ hồ tram. Stop they were joined in 1918 by two more On Quạt row Đồng đồng. Row around, 1925 A Van vân cu Cù villager named vạn Opened Định first nam định style Pho. stand in hanoi The traditional home of pho is reputed to be the villages of Van Vân cu Cù And (dao Cu Cù) or Đông Cu cù, In đong đông, Xuan Định Commune. Nam trực district, nam định province according To Villagers pho was eaten In van vân cu cù long before. the french colonial period when it was popularized
No matter what time day or night, a steaming bowl of pho noodle soup is never hard to find in Vietnam. Just as pad thai in Thailand, pho is Vietnam's unofficial national dish exported with pride all over the world. Pho consists of flat rice noodles in a light, meat-based broth. The dish is usually accompanied by basil, lime, chili, and other extras on the side so that eaters can season the soup to their own taste.
Pho originated in the early 20th century in northern Vietnam, southeast of Hanoi in Nam Định Province, then a substantial textile market. The traditional home of pho is reputed to be the villages of Van Vân cu Cù And (dao Cu Cù) or Đông Cu cù, In đong đông, Xuan Định Commune. nam trực district nam định province The traditional home of pho is reputed to be the villages of Van Vân cu Cù And (dao Cu Cù) or Đông Cu cù, In đong đông, Xuan Định Commune. Nam trực district, nam định province according To Villagers pho was eaten In van vân cu cù long before. the french colonial period when it was popularized
up vote 6 down vote. Full disclosure — I'm not Vietnamese :-). The word pho (actually Phở) is a corruption of the French word feu, as in Pot au Feu, the dish that it can claim as its ancestor. (That's from a Smithsonian Magazine article about Vietnamese food from sometime in the past few years.). 
In Vietnamese, Pho bo means beef noodle soup and pho ga means chicken noodle soup. Banh pho refers to the rice noodle itself and sometimes also to the soup as in Banh Pho Bo which means beef noodle soup. Pho is a broth-based noodle soup that features prominently in Vietnamese cuisine. The word is pronounced like fuh for English speakers, as the ph is said as the “f” sound.