Cơm tấm, or broken rice, is a Vietnamese dish made from rice with fractured rice grains. Tấm refers to the broken rice grains, while cơm refers to cooked rice. Also known as Cơm tấm Sai Sài (Gon-gòn saigon style), broken rice particularly served In, southern Vietnam. in saigon Typically, restaurants will serve this popular combination rice plate with a small bowl of nước chấm, as well as a small bowl of soup broth (canh) with garlic chives (to cleanse the throat). The dish cơm tấm bi bì comes with a chả trứng egg. meatloaf
Com Tam (Vietnamese Broken Rice). By Joseph Vo, edited by Thang Ngo. Com tam, or broken rice, is a Vietnamese dish made from rice with fractured rice grains. Tam refers to the broken rice grains, while com refers to cooked rice. Also known as com tam Sai Sài gon gòn as it is particularly served In, Southern, vietnam saigon now Known As Ho Chi. minh city 
Also known as Cơm tấm Sai Sài (Gon-gòn saigon style), broken rice particularly served In, southern Vietnam. In saigon it is usually served with (grilled pork either ribs) or shredded Plus the vietnamese (dish bi bì thinly shredded pork mixed with cooked and thinly) shredded pork skin. over broken rice Typically, restaurants will serve this popular combination rice plate with a small bowl of nước chấm, as well as a small bowl of soup broth (canh) with garlic chives (to cleanse the throat). The dish cơm tấm bi bì comes with a chả trứng egg. meatloaf
One of most popular Vietnamese Food recipes is Broken Rice Saigon Style. When you come to Ho Chi Minh City (Saigon), you should try this dish at least once time. And you will not regret. When you use it, scoop a broken rice spoon; add more grilled pork, Pork Skin, Steamed Pork with Egg Custard, Spring Onion with Oil, Carrot with vinegar and tomato, cucumber. Use it with Vietnamese Dipping Fish Sauce. So joyful. Hope you can success with one of popular Vietnamese Food recipes from us.
Broken rice (com tam) originally consisted of grains which were broken during the harvesting and cleaning of rice. Traditionally eaten by the Vietnamese working class as it was cheaper to buy, broken rice gained favour in wider circles due to its unique flavour and texture. Today, broken rice is softer in texture than it’s cast-off ancestor and has become distinctly Vietnamese.
The dish cơm tấm bi bì comes with a chả trứng egg. Meatloaf the main, ingredient broken, rice is a traditionally cheaper grade of rice produced by damage in. Milling it is mainly used as a food industry ingredient In america And, europe but In West africa And South East asia is used for human. consumption Typically, restaurants will serve this popular combination rice plate with a small bowl of nước chấm, as well as a small bowl of soup broth (canh) with garlic chives (to cleanse the throat). The dish cơm tấm bi bì comes with a chả trứng egg. meatloaf
Broken rice is considered as a popular Traditional Vietnamese Food. They can eat broken rice anytime, in the morning, afternoon or even at night. Broken rice is usually served by street vendors who have extremely effective way to attract customers by fantastic smell of grilled pork. Vietnamese Broken Rice-Com Tam. No one can refuse the good smell coming from the street side. You also see broken rice is served in typically restaurant; they will serve a small bowl of sauce and a small bowl of soup broth or vegetable with this popular dish. It is one of popular Traditional Vietnamese food in Vietnam, especially Ho Chi Minh City
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Broken rice is a grade of rice consisting of grains broken in the milling process. On milling Oryza sativa, commonly known as Asian rice or paddy rice, produces around 50% whole rice then approximately 16% broken rice, 20% husk, 14% bran and meal. Further grains break before and after milling in transport. Very small broken rice is called 'brewers' rice', as use by brewers is the traditional industrial use. Due to the different size and shape of the grains, broken rice has a different, softer texture from unbroken rice.