If n is the number of cash flows in the list of values, the formula for NPV is: NPV is similar to the PV function (present value). The primary difference between PV and NPV is that PV allows cash flows to begin either at the end or at the beginning of the period. Example. Copy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data.
Microsoft Excel has a built-in function for calculating the discount rate for bonds, given the settlement date, maturity date, security price, redemption value and basis, which is an option argument. For example, suppose you own a bond, and want to calculate the discount rate for it. The discount rate is determined to be 1%. You can calculate the discount factor over time by using the formula: D = 1รท(1+r)^n, where D is the discount factor, r is the discount rate, and n is the number of years.
Enter Redemption Price: into cell A4 and the corresponding price into cell B4, $100 in this example. Now use the corresponding Excel function, DISC, to calculate the discount rate for the bond. In cell A5, enter Discount Rate: to label the value in cell B5. The function DISC takes in specific parameters in a specific order of settlement date, maturity date, price and redemption price. In cell B5 enter =DISC(B1, B2, B3, B4). The discount rate is determined to be 1%. You can calculate the discount factor over time by using the formula: D = 1รท(1+r)^n, where D is the discount factor, r is the discount rate, and n is the number of years.
1 Select the cell and click the function button, labeled fx. Choose the NPV function. 2  The function window will launch. 3  Enter a reference to cell B1 in the rate field. 4  Enter a reference to cell B2 in the first value field only if the investment occurs at the end of the first period. 1 Enter a reference to cell B1 in the rate field. 2  Enter a reference to cell B2 in the first value field only if the investment occurs at the end of the first period. 3  Otherwise, do not enter a reference to cell B2. 4  Enter references to cells B3, B4 and B5 in the next 3 value fields. 5  Click the OK button.
How to Correctly Calculate NPV in Excel. The easier way to correctly calculate NPV in Excel is to exclude the initial cash outflow from your NPV formula. This will give you the present value of only the future cash flows. Then, you can simply net our your initial cash outlay from this present value of future cash flows calculation. 
= npv (our discount rate /12 as the rate is compounded monthly, the range of values you want to be considered)+the initial investment, in our case the starting 100,000$. Step 3. Excel will calculate for you the Net Present Value of this investment. Step 4. Go to the cell that you want to hold the NPV result for comparison, and type: =npv(the same discount rate/12,the range of values)+the initial investment. Hit Enter. Step 5. Excel will calculate for you the Net Present Value of this investment
PV(rate,nper,pmt,fv,type). Rate is the interest rate per period. For example, if you obtain an automobile loan at a 10 percent annual interest rate and make monthly payments, your interest rate per month is 10%/12, or 0.83%. You would enter 10%/12, or 0.83%, or 0.0083, into the formula as the rate. Rate is the interest rate for the loan. Nper is the total number of payments for the loan. Pv is the present value, or the total amount that a series of future payments is worth now; also known as the principal. Fv is the future value, or a cash balance you want to attain after the last payment is made.
Example 2. In the following spreadsheet, the Excel Rate function is used to calculate the interest rate required, to save $20,000, over 2 years, with a starting value of zero, and monthly savings of $800. In the following spreadsheet, the Excel Rate function is used to calculate the interest rate required, with fixed payments of $1,000 per month, to pay off in full, a loan of $50,000 over a period of 5 years. The payments are to be made at the end of each month.
For example: In column A I have a customer's regular price of $4.36. In column B I have the customer's discount price of $4.15. In column C I need a formula to calculate the discount percent between the two costs. I know it should be around 5%, but can't figure out how to get there.