Prospective borrowers can safely assume that for loans up to $417,000, they are better off with the conventional than with the FHA. On the $600, 000 loan, however, the results are mixed. At a credit score of 640, a borrower cannot qualify for a $600,000 conventional loan. At 740 and 800, the cost of a conventional loan is smaller with loan-to-value ratios of 90 or less, but at a ratio of 95, the cost of the conventional is larger. This mixed result would hold for any loan amount greater than $417,000
Conventional loans also have advantages in certain situations. If you make a 20 percent or more down payment for your home, you will not have to pay mortgage insurance to obtain your loan. An FHA loan -– no matter the amount of down payment — requires an upfront premium and also a monthly premium. 
Most conventional loans will require a down payment or at least 10% but some first time home buyer programs will let you get away with only 5%. You'll usually need to pay 20% to avoid paying PMI. Check your debt to income ratio. This is the amount of money that you make vs. the amount of money that you owe. Check your credit report before you begin. In order to qualify for a conventional home loan, you should have a minimum credit score of at least 620. Take the extra time to pull your credit score up. The best rates are found in the 700+ bracket. Shop around for first time buyer programs with local lenders.
The days of zero-down-payment loans and no-income-verification loans are long gone -- consumers applying for a conventional mortgage now need three basic elements to qualify: cash, good credit and income. Most mortgage insurance companies, says Pichardo, require a credit score of 700 or higher, while others require a credit score of 660 or higher. Conventional mortgage loans usually require a minimum down payment of 5 percent, with 10 percent required on condominium purchases.
1. Gather all your financial documentation. To qualify for a conventional mortgage, you will need to provide up-to-date, accurate documents that prove your financial stability. These include recent pay stubs, W-2 forms and tax returns from the current and previous year
To decide if you qualify for an Conventional Mortgage Loan, we will look at: 1  Your income and your monthly expenses. 2  Standard debt-to-income ratios are 28/36 for Conventional Loans. Fixed rate loans-Most Conventional Mortgages are fixed-rate mortgages. In a fixed rate mortgage, your interest rate stays the same for the entire loan period. With a fixed rate Conventional Mortgage, you always know exactly how much your monthly payment will be. Contact us for today's free Conventional mortgage rates.
Income. Your monthly mortgage payment and monthly debt loads must fall within certain percentages, in relation to your gross monthly income, in order to qualify for a conventional home loan. Your monthly mortgage payment, including taxes, insurance and other fees, cannot exceed 28 percent of your gross monthly income. The standard down payment for a conventional loan is 20 percent of the cost of the home. If you are unable to put down this amount, there are many ways around the requirement.
Step 2. Determine if you have enough cash to secure the loan. Conventional loans require the home buyer to invest at least 5 to 20 percent of the sales price in cash for the down payment and closing costs. A higher down payment usually results in a lower interest rate. 
She says that the borrower will need to make a down payment of at least 20 percent since he or she cannot qualify for mortgage insurance with a credit score of 620. Most mortgage insurance companies, says Pichardo, require a credit score of 700 or higher, while others require a credit score of 660 or higher. Conventional mortgage loans usually require a minimum down payment of 5 percent, with 10 percent required on condominium purchases. Borrowers who need to finance more than the conforming loan amount of $417,000 will need a higher credit score of 700 or above and a larger down payment, Pichardo says