The first planet found with the aid of a telescope, Uranus was discovered in 1781 by astronomer William Herschel. The seventh planet from the sun is so distant that it takes 84 years to complete one orbit. Uranus, with no solid surface, is one of the gas giant planets. 
View full size image. The seventh planet from the sun, Uranus is the smallest of the gas giants. The blue body contains an icy atmosphere that, like Neptune, differs dramatically from the other large planets. Radius, diameter and circumference.
Additional Readings. Uranus is the third largest planet in the solar system, after Jupiter and Saturn. Uranus is about four times bigger than Earth. Its diameter at the equator is about 31,763 miles (51,118 kilometers), as measured at the level of the atmosphere where the pressure is the same as at sea level on Earth. The planet is slightly larger than Neptune, but Neptune is about 1.2 times more massive. Uranus'
Uranus is the third largest planet in the Solar System. It has a diameter of 31,765 miles or 51,118 kilometers which is about four times the diameter of Earth. Uranus has a volume which is about 63 times the volume of Earth which means that 63 Earths can fit inside Uranus. 1  Javascript must be enabled to use Cool Cosmos. 2  Learn how
Density, mass and volume. Although Uranus, discovered in 1781, is only four times the physical size of Earth, it is significantly more massive, weighing in at 86 septillion kilograms (just under one trillion trillion trillion). That makes it more than 14.5 times as massive as our rocky home. The seventh planet from the sun, Uranus is the smallest of the gas giants. The blue body contains an icy atmosphere that, like Neptune, differs dramatically from the other large planets. Radius, diameter and circumference.
Uranus: Neptune's Twin. Uranus is one of the smaller gas giants in our solar system, but it is still large enough to hold 64 planets the size of Earth. Uranus tilts over so far on its axis that it rotates on its side. Because of this, its poles are sometimes pointed almost directly at the Sun. 
This is the symbol for Uranus: Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sunand the third largest of the nine planets (in size). Uranus is larger in size but smaller in weight than Neptune. Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun and the third largest of the nine planets (in size). Uranus is larger in size but smaller in weight than Neptune. Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun and the third largest of the nine planets (in size). 
SIZE. Uranus is about 31,690 miles (51,118 km) in diameter. This is about 4 times the diameter of the Earth. This gas giant is the third-largest planet in our Solar System (after Jupiter and Saturn). MASS AND GRAVITY. Uranus' mass is about 8.68 x 10 kg. This is about 14 times the mass of the Earth.
Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun and the third largest (by diameter). Uranus is larger in diameter but smaller in mass than Neptune. 
There are so many ways we can measure the size of Uranus, so let’s look at all of them. Uranus Compared to Earth. Image credit: NASA. First, let’s take a look at diameter. The diameter of Uranus is 51,118 km across. For comparison, this is about 4 times bigger than Earth. Now, let’s look at volume. The total volume of Uranus is 6.833×10 13 km 3. Again, for comparison, you could fit 63 Earths inside Uranus, and still have room to spare