Hebrew Meaning: The name Seraphina is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Seraphina is: Fiery-winged. The name Seraphina comes from 'seraphim', who were the most powerful angels. SoulUrge Number: 7. 
Serafina /ser-a-fi-na/ [4 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Hebrew derivation, and Serafina means burning ones. Serafina is a version of Seraphina (Hebrew). Serafina is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3538 out of 4276, Top 83%) but an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census).
This doesn't mean that the name Serafina is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Serafina and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Meaning & History. Feminine form of the Late Latin name Seraphinus, derived from the biblical word seraphim which was Hebrew in origin and meant fiery ones. The seraphim were an order of angels, described by Isaiah in the Bible as having six wings each. 
Spanish Meaning: The name Serafina is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Serafina is: Seraph. Italian Meaning: The name Serafina is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Serafina is: From the seraph. 
Origin of the name Seraphina: Derived from the Hebrew sĕrāphīm (burning ones), a name used in the Bible for the heavenly winged angels surrounding the throne of God. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Oh well....we love the name and have received many many compliments on her name. Everyone seems to always remember her name-like it just sticks.. Serafina has been a family name for 3 generations (Italian) and I never saw it anywhere as a child. Lately it has been attached to elegant shoe styles and fabric patterns.
Additional information: The girl name Serafina comes from the Bible from the Hebrew ' sĕrāphīm', meaning burning ones, to describe the six winged heavenly angels surrounding and praising the throne of God. The Seraphim are the highest level of celestial beings or angels in Christian hierarchy. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Serafina and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Meanings and history of the name Seraphina : | Edit. Feminine form of the Late Latin name Seraphinus, derived from the biblical word seraphim which was Hebrew in origin and meant fiery ones. Origin of the name Seraphina: Derived from the Hebrew sĕrāphīm (burning ones), a name used in the Bible for the heavenly winged angels surrounding the throne of God. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Serafina Name Meaning. The meaning of Serafina is “Heavenly, Winged Angel”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Serafina and its name origin or of any other name in our database.