The contributors to network latency include: 1  Propagation: This is simply the time it takes for a packet to travel between one place and another at the speed of light. 2  Transmission: The medium itself (whether optical fiber, wireless, or some other) introduces some delay, which varies from one medium to another.
Computer and operating system latency is the combined delay between an input or command and the desired output. In a computer system, latency is often used to mean any delay or waiting that increases real or perceived response time beyond what is desired.
In this case, the time in milliseconds is the ping rate (or latency) between my home PC and the Google.com server. The program is telling me that it took an average of 30ms across four runs for my computer to communicate with Google.com.
Latency is a time interval between the stimulation and response, or, from a more general point of view, as a time delay between the cause and the effect of some physical change in the system being observed. Latency is physically a consequence of the limited velocity with which any physical interaction can propagate.
Network latency is an expression of how much time it takes for a packet of data to get from one designated point to another. In some environments (for example, AT&T), latency is measured by sending a packet that is returned to the sender; the round-trip time is considered the latency.
Well, for one thing latency is actually measured in a unit of speed. Ironically, bandwidth isn’t, despite the fact that everyone refers to bandwidth as speed. More seriously, though, the best way to explain the difference is like this (using a pipe as an example): 1  Bandwidth has to do with how wide or narrow a pipe is.
Internet latency is just a special case of network latency-the Internet is a very large wide-area network (WAN). The same factors as above determine latency on the Internet. However, distances in the transmission medium, the number of hops over equipment and servers are all greater than for smaller networks.
Network latency, often referred to as lag, is the time delay that happens as data packets transmit from one point to another over a network.
Network latency is simply defined as the time delay observed as data transmits from one point to another. Usually, to determine this time delay, the origin and destination points are used.
Mechanical latency is the delay from input into a mechanical system or device to the desired output. This delay is determined by Newtonian physics-based limits of the mechanism (excepting quantum mechanics).