(United States). The average pay for a Biomedical Engineer is $62,986 per year. Pay for this job rises steadily for more experienced workers, but goes down noticeably for employees with more than 20 years' experience. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Clinical Research and Project Management. 
Medical Engineering encompasses a broad range of activities, and is alternatively called Bioengineering and Biomedical Engineering. It is a multi-disciplinary subject integrating professional engineering activities with a basic medical knowledge of the human body and an understanding of how it functions when healthy, diseased or injured.
A career in Biomedical Engineering. Biomedical engineering (BME) applies the science of engineering to the art of medicine for improving health and function of the overall population. BME is a branch of engineering in which knowledge and skills are developed and applied to solve problems in biology and medicine. Examples of work by biomedical engineers. 1  Design and development of cardiac pacemakers, defibrillators, artificial kidneys, blood oxygenators, hearts, blood vessels, joints, arms, and legs. 2  Design computer and information systems to monitor patients.
Medical Engineering BEng (Hons) or MEng – 2016 entry. I chose to study Medical Engineering because the subject combines both engineering and medical sciences, and seeks to further technical advances to massively improve the quality of life for an ageing population. 
What Biomedical Engineers Do About this section. Biomedical engineers study possible applications of new materials for use as new body parts. Biomedical engineers analyze and design solutions to problems in biology and medicine, with the goal of improving the quality and effectiveness of patient care. Biomedical engineers must be able to analyze the needs of patients and customers to design appropriate solutions. Communication skills. Because biomedical engineers sometimes work with patients and frequently work with medical scientists or other engineers, they must be able to express themselves clearly.
Videos About Biomedical Engineering. If you’d like to learn more about biomedical engineering, check out one of the following videos. Physicians, learn about some of the latest advances in biomedical engineering and how you can participate to help influence the direction of research and development. 
medical engineering, a field of study of biomedical engineering and technologic concepts applied to develop equipment and instruments required in health care delivery. 
Related Articles for Medical Engineering. 1  Biomedical engineering is the use of engineering principles for biological or medical research. 2  Most jobs in biomedical engineering require a master's degree or a doctorate, but some entry-level positions are available to candidates with a... Career Overview. Medical engineering is an interdisciplinary field of study that combines medicine and engineering, covering technical areas such as biology, calculus, physiology, nanotechnology, biochemistry and anatomy.
Being a Biomedical Engineer. Being a biomedical engineer requires that you develop analytical skills and new design techniques. A good foundation is a must for biomedical engineers and this is achieved by instilling a research oriented attitude from the very start. Biomedical engineering has been divided into a number of sub-disciplines which are as follows: 1  Cardiovascular technology. 2  Neural technology. 3  Orthopaedic technology. 4  Cancer technology. 5  Biochemical-BME. 6  Bioelectrical-BME.
View full size image. Biomedical engineering, or bioengineering, is the application of engineering principles to the fields of biology and health care. Bioengineers work with doctors, therapists and researchers to develop systems, equipment and devices in order to solve clinical problems. 