Like an addiction…. The mysterious Marble trout is estimated to be only native to rivers of the Adriatic river system. Catching a huge one with a fly is possible in Slovenia, a small eastern European country bordered by Italy to the west and Austria to the North. Some scientist studies have shown that a marble trout could reach 60 cm in just four years which is amazing compared to other European rivers. According to my experience, I can say that it is easier to catch one of these monsters if you don’t consider it as a trout but as a pike! No it is not a joke!
Distribution area of marble trout. Natural co-existence with other trout. Most of the existing marble trout populations naturally coexist with native Adriatic brown trout: Salmo cenerinus in Italian rivers and S. farioides and S. obtusirostris in the Neretva and Skadar river systems. Taxonomic status. To clarify taxonomic uncertainties of marble trout (S. marmoratus or S. trutta marmoratus) and determine phylogenetic relationship between the northern and southern populations, a new marker system based on nDNA SNPs was developed (Pustovrh et al., 2012).
Font size: A good marble trout from the Idrijca river for the author. The Marble Trout (salmo trutta marmoratus) is considered one of the largest stream-dwelling trout in the world! The largest specimen ever recorded weighed 25kg. Some scientist studies have shown that a marble trout could reach 60 cm in just four years which is amazing compared to other European rivers. According to my experience, I can say that it is easier to catch one of these monsters if you don’t consider it as a trout but as a pike! No it is not a joke!
Marble trout originally evolved from the brown trout. Its colouring and marbled pattern changes from river system to river system, so it is possible to find genetically pure marble trout with red dots or splotches. The marble trout´s diet changes with age: the smaller fish feed on nymphs principally, and sometimes take emergers or dry flies.
Rainbow trout and greyling, which do not breed with the marble trout, also populate these rivers. • Spawning time: October-January • Can grow up to 130 cm (51 inches), 22 kilos (55 pounds)• Up to 23 inch fish are regularly caught. Its colouring and marbled pattern changes from river system to river system, so it is possible to find genetically pure marble trout with red dots or splotches. The marble trout´s diet changes with age: the smaller fish feed on nymphs principally, and sometimes take emergers or dry flies.
The Soča and its tributaries are famous for its indigenous Marble Trout (Salmo marmoratus) now found only in a few river systems, there is also the adriatic grayling, rainbow trout, marble/brown trout hybrid, brown trout, chub and barbel. The nature around Trebusčiča river offers an extremely peaceful fly-fishing experience but also with exciting dry fly or nymph fly-fishing. It will be a day to remember catching great browns, marble trout and grayling.
Present distribution of trout with marbled color pattern (right; 8 genetically pure marble trout populations, marble trout x brown trout hybrids, stocked marble trout, marbled brown trout from the River Otra). Taxonomic status. To clarify taxonomic uncertainties of marble trout (S. marmoratus or S. trutta marmoratus) and determine phylogenetic relationship between the northern and southern populations, a new marker system based on nDNA SNPs was developed (Pustovrh et al., 2012).
A threat of brown trout. Marble trout is one of the most endangered freshwater species. The main threat to marble trout has been hybridization with introduced brown trout. The first recorded stocking in the So a River was performed in 1906 using brown trout from Bosnia-Herzegovina. Taxonomic status. To clarify taxonomic uncertainties of marble trout (S. marmoratus or S. trutta marmoratus) and determine phylogenetic relationship between the northern and southern populations, a new marker system based on nDNA SNPs was developed (Pustovrh et al., 2012).
Marble trout is only indigenous species of trout in the Adriatic (Western) part of the river system in Slovenia. This Soca watershed, which flows into the Adriatic, consists of the river Soca and its tributaries Ria¾ana riå¾ana And. Reka marble trout originally evolved from the brown. trout Its colouring and marbled pattern changes from river system to river system, so it is possible to find genetically pure marble trout with red dots or splotches. The marble trout´s diet changes with age: the smaller fish feed on nymphs principally, and sometimes take emergers or dry flies.
It is thus evident that: 1  marmoratus haplotypes are not associated with marble trout. 2  mtDNA analysis is not phylogenetically informative for assessing marble and brown trout relationship. 3  in the case of marble trout, classification based on mtDNA cannot be conclusive. Taxonomic status. To clarify taxonomic uncertainties of marble trout (S. marmoratus or S. trutta marmoratus) and determine phylogenetic relationship between the northern and southern populations, a new marker system based on nDNA SNPs was developed (Pustovrh et al., 2012).