poison ivy, oak, and sumac common plants of the genus Rhus that cause allergic skin reactions. The poison contained in their leaves, roots, and berries is an oily substance called urushiol. Corrosives are poisons that destroy tissues directly. They include the mineral acids, such as nitric acid, sulfuric acid, and hydrochloric acid; the caustic alkalis, such as ammonia, sodium hydroxide (lye), sodium carbonate, and sodium hypochlorite; and carbolic acid (phenol).
In biology, poisons are substances which cause disturbances to organisms, usually by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale, when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by an organism. The fields of medicine (particularly veterinary) and zoology often distinguish a poison from a toxin, and from a venom. Toxins are poisons produced by organisms in nature, and venoms are toxins which are injected by a bite or sting (this is exclusive to animals). Indeed, 2,4-D is not a poison, but classified as harmful (EU). Many substances regarded as poisons are toxic only indirectly, by toxication. An example is wood alcohol or methanol, which is not poisonous itself, but is chemically converted to toxic formaldehyde and formic acid in the liver.
Get help right away from a local poison expert. If someone is unconscious or has trouble breathing, call 911. A poison is anything that can harm someone if it is 1) used in the wrong way, 2) used by the wrong person, or 3) used in the wrong amount. Some poisons may be harmful if they come into direct contact with your eyes or skin. Others may be toxic if you breathe them or swallow them. 
For other frogs that are poisonous to humans, see Poisonous frog. Poison dart frog (also known as dart-poison frog, poison frog or formerly known as poison arrow frog) is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America. These species are diurnal and often have brightly colored bodies. 
Examples of possible poisons include some household products, chemicals at work or in the environment, drugs (prescription, over-the-counter, herbal, or illegal) snake bites, and spider bites. For more information about different types of poisons, click here. A poison is any product or substance that can harm someone if it is used in the wrong way, by the wrong person, or in the wrong amount. 
Note that the differentiator between venom and other poisons is the method of delivery. Substances known as poisons may be used in industry, agriculture and other sectors for reasons other than their toxicity. Indeed, 2,4-D is not a poison, but classified as harmful (EU). Many substances regarded as poisons are toxic only indirectly, by toxication. An example is wood alcohol or methanol, which is not poisonous itself, but is chemically converted to toxic formaldehyde and formic acid in the liver.
Poison ivy, oak, and sumac are plants that can cause a red, itchy rash called allergic contact dermatitis. It is the most common skin problem caused by contact with plants. The rash is caused by contact with a sticky oil called urushiol (say yoo-ROO-shee-all) found in poison ivy, oak, or sumac. You can get the rash from: 1  Touching or brushing against any part of these plants, including the leaves, stems, flowers, berries, and roots, even if the plant is dead
A toxin is a poison produced by an organism; it is esp. used in medicine in reference to disease-causing bacterial secretions: A toxin produces diphtheria. venom is esp. used of the poisons injected by bite, sting, etc.: snake venom; bee venom. Noun. 1. poison-any substance that causes injury or illness or death of a living organism. poisonous substance, toxicant. substance-a particular kind or species of matter with uniform properties; shigella is one of the most toxic substances known to man.
The term poison is often used colloquially to describe any harmful substance, particularly corrosive substances, carcinogens, mutagens, teratogens and harmful pollutants, and to exaggerate the dangers of chemicals. Indeed, 2,4-D is not a poison, but classified as harmful (EU). Many substances regarded as poisons are toxic only indirectly, by toxication. An example is wood alcohol or methanol, which is not poisonous itself, but is chemically converted to toxic formaldehyde and formic acid in the liver.
poison. n. 1. (Medicine) any substance that can impair function, cause structural damage, or otherwise injure the body. 2. something that destroys, corrupts, etc: the poison of fascism. 3. (Chemistry) a substance that retards a chemical reaction or destroys or inhibits the activity of a catalyst. Noun. 1. poison-any substance that causes injury or illness or death of a living organism. poisonous substance, toxicant. substance-a particular kind or species of matter with uniform properties; shigella is one of the most toxic substances known to man.