Lack of sunlight causes the plants to grow leggy. Use grow lights to supplement the amount of available sunlight. Tip: To help your plants grow sturdy, place a small fan on low nearby. Or, lightly brush the tops of the plants with your hands a couple times each day. How to Grow Tomatoes: Growing tomato plants is easy. It's one reason for their popularity in your home garden. Just prior to planting tomato plants in your garden, harden them off by bringing them outside during the daytime and for increasing hours, until you are leaving them out overnight. Many tomatoes never make it past the garden fence.It's a joy to take a ripe, juicy fruit from the plant, and eat it while you are still in your garden. Growing tomato plants is easy. Most varieties produce an abundance of fruit. The best tasting tomato, is one that ripens on the vine.
No other vegetable comes close to it's popularity. There is nothing better than a ripe tomato straight out of the garden. Many tomatoes never make it past the garden fence.It's a joy to take a ripe, juicy fruit from the plant, and eat it while you are still in your garden. Growing tomato plants is easy. Most varieties produce an abundance of fruit. The best tasting tomato, is one that ripens on the vine.
Give tomatoes a light amount of fertilizer at planting time. This can be accomplished by using a starter solution of fertilizer. Pour about 1 pint of starter solution (2 tablespoons of 5-10-10 or 5-10-5 fertilizer dissolved in 1 gallon of water) around each plant. Use a complete fertilizer that contains minor nutrients. After the first tomatoes form on the vine and are about the size of a quarter, side-dress them with 10-10-10 at the rate of 1 pound per 100 square feet of bed. Repeat every three to four weeks until harvest is completed.
In general, tomatoes take around 60 to 90 days to grow and then ripen. In a hydroponic system, because you are providing the plant with the absolute best growing conditions, I would expect this to be sooner, and you should be enjoying your tomatoes within 60 days at the very most. Tomatoes are fairly hardy plants, meaning they can thrive in a wide range of temperatures. Generally, a temperature of 18째C to 25째C is desirable during the day, and a temperature of between 12째C and 18째C at night time.
Tomato seedlings need strong, direct light. Days are short during winter, so even placing them near a very sunny window may not provide them with sufficient natural light. Unless you are growing them in a greenhouse, your best option is to use some type of artificial plant lighting, for 14-18 hours every day. It seems tomato plants need to move and sway in the breeze, to develop strong stems. That happens naturally outdoors, but if you are growing your seedlings inside, provide a breeze by turning a fan on them for 5-10 minutes, twice a day.
Tomatoes are generally heat-loving plants, some of which tend to grow tall, so give them full sun, rich soil, and a trellis or stake to grow on. Plant seedlings in the garden after all danger of frost is past, or plant a bit early and protect crops with row covers. 
1 An indeterminate plant keeps growing and spreading out. 2  A cage should be at least 48 inches (1.2 m) tall, even taller if you grow the plant well. 3  Tying plants is unneeded. 4  Some tomato plants can be more than six feet (1.8 m) tall in cages (you may need to stake and tie the cage to the stakes). 1 A cage should be at least 48 inches (1.2 m) tall, even taller if you grow the plant well. 2  Tying plants is unneeded. 3  Some tomato plants can be more than six feet (1.8 m) tall in cages (you may need to stake and tie the cage to the stakes).
1 A determinate tomato plant grows to a certain (determined), limited size and then stops or at least slows its growth greatly. 2  An indeterminate plant keeps growing and spreading out. 3  A cage should be at least 48 inches (1.2 m) tall, even taller if you grow the plant well. 4  Tying plants is unneeded. 1 A cage should be at least 48 inches (1.2 m) tall, even taller if you grow the plant well. 2  Tying plants is unneeded. 3  Some tomato plants can be more than six feet (1.8 m) tall in cages (you may need to stake and tie the cage to the stakes).