A ventilation–perfusion (VQ) scan is a nuclear medicine scan that uses radioactive material (radiopharmaceutical) to examine airflow (ventilation) and blood flow (perfusion) in the lungs. The aim of the scan is to look for evidence of any blood clot in the lungs, called pulmonary embolism (PE). A VQ scan is carried out in two parts. In the first part, radioactive material is breathed in and pictures or images are taken to look at the airflow
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A ventilation/perfusion lung scan, also called a V/Q lung scan, is a type of medical imaging using scintigraphy and medical isotopes to evaluate the circulation of air and blood within a patient's lungs, in order to determine the ventilation/perfusion ratio. The ventilation and perfusion phases of a V/Q lung scan are performed together and may include a chest x-ray for comparison or to look for other causes of lung disease. A defect in the perfusion images requires a mismatched ventilation defect to indicate pulmonary embolism.
Lung Ventilation/Perfusion Scan. A lung ventilation/perfusion test, commonly referred to as a VQ test, is carried out to test the function of the lungs. The test measures the blood and airflow in the lungs and is most commonly used if a doctor suspects that a patient has suffered a pulmonary embolism. 1 A lung ventilation/perfusion test examines air and blood flow in the lungs. 2  The test is most commonly used to diagnose pulmonary embolism, a condition which happens when a blood clot blocks the flow of blood to the lungs. 3  A VQ test will usually be ordered if a patient has symptoms associated with
A lung scan is a nuclear scanning test that is most commonly used to detect a blood clot that is preventing normal blood flow to part of a lung (pulmonary embolism). Two types of lung scans are usually done together: 1  Ventilation scan. 2  During a ventilation scan, a radioactive tracer gas or mist is inhaled into the lungs. Why It Is Done. A lung scan is done to: 1  Find a blood clot that is preventing normal blood flow (perfusion) to part of a lung (pulmonary embolism). 2  Check the flow of blood (perfusion) or air (ventilation) through the lungs. 3  See which parts of the lungs are working and which are damaged
Ventilation / perfusion lung scan. Ventilation/perfusion lung scans, also known as a V/Q scan, is used to examine the circulation of air and blood within a patient’s lungs. Typically, the V/Q scan is done to test for the presence of blood clots or other abnormalities in ventilation and circulation in the lung area. It is also commonly used in the presentation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or pneumonia.
A lung ventilation/perfusion scan, or VQ scan, is a test that measures air and blood flow in your lungs. A VQ scan most often is used to help diagnose or rule out a pulmonary embolism (PULL-mun-ary EM-bo-lizm), or PE. A PE is a sudden blockage in a lung artery. The blockage usually is caused by a blood clot that travels to the lung from a vein in the leg. Overview. A VQ scan involves two types of scans: ventilation and perfusion. The ventilation scan shows where air flows in your lungs. The perfusion scan shows where blood flows in your lungs. Both scans use radioisotopes (a low-risk radioactive substance).
1. A ventilation–perfusion (VQ) scan is a nuclear medicine scan that uses radioactive material (radiopharmaceutical) to examine airflow (ventilation) and blood flow (perfusion) in the lungs. The aim of the scan is to look for evidence of any blood clot in the lungs, called pulmonary embolism (PE). A VQ scan is carried out in two parts. In the first part, radioactive material is breathed in and pictures or images are taken to look at the airflow in the lungs. In the second part, a different radioactive material is injected into a vein in the arm, and more images taken to see the blood flow