Before he became a heartland rocker, Seger was a garage-rock belter who had a thing for the Detroit soul music that was all around him in the '60s. 'Sunspot Baby' combines both of those influence plus adds Stones-style crunch to the mix. The result is one of 'Night Moves'' best songs and a classic-rock favorite that swings on a truly funky piano riff. From: 'Ramblin' Gamblin' Man' (1969). Seger's first chart hit, which preceded the same-titled album by the Bob Seger System by a few months, features a garage-rock stomp that wouldn't sound out of place on the 'Nuggets' compilation.
Seger's third album with the Silver Bullet Band, and his only No. 1, somewhat stumbles under the weight of its aspirations. Unlike its predecessors, 'Against the Wind' dials down the heartland rock in favor of more laid-back grooves and meditative songs. From: 'Ramblin' Gamblin' Man' (1969). Seger's first chart hit, which preceded the same-titled album by the Bob Seger System by a few months, features a garage-rock stomp that wouldn't sound out of place on the 'Nuggets' compilation.
All I kept from the original was: Old time rock and roll, that kind of music just soothes the soul, I reminisce about the days of old with that old time rock and roll. I rewrote the verses and I never took credit. That was the dumbest thing I ever did. And Tom Jones (Thomas E. Jones) and George Jackson know it too. Old Time Rock and Roll achieved substantial album-oriented rock radio airplay and as the fourth single from Stranger in Town, it reached number 28 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1979.
This article is about the Bob Seger album. For other albums with the same title, see Night Moves (disambiguation) . Night Moves is the ninth studio album by American rock singer-songwriter Bob Seger, and his first with the Silver Bullet Band. The album was released on October 22, 1976 by Capitol Records. The only problem that Rachlis had with the album was the production not being strong enough. A later review of the album by Stephen Thomas Erlewine for Allmusic says that the album was very similar to Beautiful Loser, but Night Moves is harder than Beautiful Loser.
Please try again later. This is just the plain ol' studio version of Sunspot Baby off the Night Moves album by Bob Seger & the Silver Bullet Band with the album cover static as video. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. This is just the plain ol' studio version of Sunspot Baby off the Night Moves album by Bob Seger & the Silver Bullet Band with the album cover static as video. Category. License.
Stylistically, there's not much change since Beautiful Loser, but the difference is that Seger and his Silver Bullet Band -- who turn in their first studio album here -- sound intense and ferocious, and the songs are subtly varied. Bob Seger recorded the bulk of Night Moves before Live Bullet brought him his first genuine success, so it shouldn't come as a surprise that it's similar in spirit to the introspective Beautiful Loser, even if it rocks harder and longer.
'Ramblin' Gamblin' Man' hit No. 17; Seger wouldn't reach the Top 40 again until 1976, when 'Night Moves' made him a star (see No. 2 on our list of the Top 10 Bob Seger Songs). From: 'Ramblin' Gamblin' Man' (1969). Seger's first chart hit, which preceded the same-titled album by the Bob Seger System by a few months, features a garage-rock stomp that wouldn't sound out of place on the 'Nuggets' compilation.
Please try again later. Bob Seger & The Silver Bullet Band perform their classic hit Sunspot Baby LIVE at Kemper Arena in Kansas City, Missouri on December 2nd, 2006. 1  Music. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Old Time Rock and Roll is a song written by George Jackson and recorded by Bob Seger on his 1978 album Stranger in Town. It was also released as a single in 1979. Old Time Rock and Roll achieved substantial album-oriented rock radio airplay and as the fourth single from Stranger in Town, it reached number 28 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1979.