What General Maintenance and Repair Workers Do. General maintenance and repair workers fix and maintain machines, mechanical equipment, and buildings. They work on plumbing, electrical, and air-conditioning and heating systems. General maintenance and repair workers typically do the following: 1  Maintain and repair machines, mechanical equipment, and buildings. 2  Troubleshoot and fix faulty electrical switches. 3  Inspect and diagnose problems and figure out the best way to correct them.
An electrician is a tradesperson specializing in electrical wiring of buildings, stationary machines and related equipment. Electricians may be employed in the installation of new electrical components or the maintenance and repair of existing electrical infrastructure. Electricians may also specialize in wiring ships, airplanes, and other mobile platforms, as well as data and cable. 
They place a duty on employers, employees and the self-employed to: 1  have the electrical systems constructed in a way that prevents danger. 2  maintain their electrical systems as necessary to prevent danger. 3  have work on, use of, or closure of, electrical systems carried out in a way that prevents danger. 
As an affected employee, you will not have to do this. You would also have to wear the right PPE if you work on, install, or maintain energized conductors or electrical equipment. Again, only qualified employees need to do this type of work. As an affected employee, you will not do this type of work. Although you don’t really need to know how these work, you do need to know that arc flash accidents can occur near these devices. Knowing the difference between an electrical device that is energized with electricity and one that is de ‐ energized is important if you are going to work on
Maintenance and repair workers often do work that involves electrical, plumbing, heating, and air-conditioning systems or painting and roofing tasks. Workers need a good working knowledge of many repair and maintenance tasks. General maintenance and repair workers typically do the following: 1  Maintain and repair machines, mechanical equipment, and buildings. 2  Troubleshoot and fix faulty electrical switches. 3  Inspect and diagnose problems and figure out the best way to correct them.
More complex electrical tasks, such as motor repair or maintenance of radio frequency heating equipment, should only be carried out by someone who has been trained to do them. ssues of competence are covered in: 1  Memorandum of guidance on the Electricity at Work Regulations 1989. More specialised work, such as maintenance of high-voltage switchgear or control system modification, is almost certainly likely to require additional training and experience. I
The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $20,920, and the top 10 percent earned more than $57,260. Most general maintenance workers work full time, including evenings and weekends. General maintenance and repair workers typically do the following: 1  Maintain and repair machines, mechanical equipment, and buildings. 2  Troubleshoot and fix faulty electrical switches. 3  Inspect and diagnose problems and figure out the best way to correct them.
You will need from three to seven members, and at least two of them must be board members. If there are residents in your building who have experience with building maintenance or trades, such as plumbing, carpentry, electrical work, or painting, it is a good idea to include them on your committee. The BIC will be the liason between the T.A. and the City on all repair issues. The City will provide the BIC with the scopes of work for your building, contractors assigned and HPD staff responsible for supervising the work. The BIC is responsible to communicate all information to the T.A..
I work as an electrical/maintenance mechanic. Although the hours are long, my job is so varied it's different almost daily. I couldn't think of any other job where it's not boring or rountine as an industrial maintenance technician. Industrial maintenance usually refers to the repair and upkeep of the different types of equipment and machines used in an industrial setting. The basics can be broken down into the following five categories: general knowledge, mechanical knowledge, electrical knowledge, welding knowledge, and preventative maintenance