I have a Ford E-350 cargo van that I want to scrap, I have got a few estimates from some local online places that will pick it up and pay cash. The offers I have got are $300 and $350. I am thinking its a bit low. And will these places offer less when they get there saying it was just an estimate. 3.Fill it with all the scrap you can to add to the weight. I just did a 1997 f150 today, and received 8.5 cents per pound, (todays rate in Vt.), for 4260 lbs.=$357.00, plus $45 for the converter. Hope that this was helpful, your van should weigh more than my truck did. Good luck. X2 on the cat. Converter.
So let us recycle your scrap van, just call us on 0161 207 0161 or complete the arrange scrap van collection web form and we will be happy to arrange collection of your van at a time that suits you. We pay you cash on the spot, no waiting for cheque or bank transfers!!! Scrap my van for cash. If you want to scrap a van we will come and collect the van for free and pay you cash! We make scrap van collection as easy and painless as possible. One point of contact with us using our professional service via telephone or web will take that old or accident damaged van off your hands with minimum fuss.
It depends VERY much on their date, condition, and mint mark. Numismaticly, modern cents from the 1950s to today are only worth a penny. Older ones may or may not have more … value as collectibles. When you get back to cents from the 1930s and earlier, most but not all of them are worth more to collectors. Brass scrap metal prices for late June 2011 are: Red Brass $1.95 per pound Yellow Brass $1.80 per pound Irony Brass $0.40 per pound These are some average prices from … across the United States. Other areas and regions will vary in price.
Make sure you properly remove and recycle the refrigerant first. Probaly only worth $5 - $15 a unit. But that is only if you break it down correctly! Check out http://scrappin … gmetal.blogspot.com for more The best way to do it is scrap the radiator, you can get around $25 to $50 depending on how big it is. Brass scrap metal prices for late June 2011 are: Red Brass $1.95 per pound Yellow Brass $1.80 per pound Irony Brass $0.40 per pound These are some average prices from … across the United States. Other areas and regions will vary in price.
Scrap a Van. If you need to scrap a van, when it reaches the end of its life, you can count on us for your first option. Many people will try and sell it on for van parts, or even privately to make a quick sale. However, we have found the quickest and most profitable was to get rid of your old van is to scrap a van with us for cash
It has never been simpler to get the best scrap car price for your car or van, with free collection, no administration charges and helpful specialist staff; this has to be one of the quickest and most convenient ways to scrap your car. Ask us for a quote to scrap my car, call now on 0333 9000 500. So if you are thinking ‘I want to scrap my card for cash’ call us now on 0333 9000 500 to get the easiest and best scrap car value.
Postcode. It’s easy to get an instant price for your scrap van with us, the only information we need is the registration of your van and your postcode. Scrap your van with CarTakeBack.com and get instant prices now. It’s easy to get an instant price for your scrap van with us, the only information we need is the registration of your van and your postcode. We then instantly show you how much your scrap van is worth. You can choose between delivering your van to your local CarTakeBack recycling centre, or you can take advantage of our free scrap van collection service. We’ll arrange a date and time that’s suitable for you and we collect from anywhere in the UK