Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Clastic sedimentary rocks contain clasts. These are fragments or pieces of rock or minerals. The composition of clastic sedimentary rocks is divided into three types-clay/silt, sand and gravel. Clay and silt are less than 1/16 mm. These are not visible to the unaided eye. Sand is clasts between 1/16 and 2 mm in size, and gravel is greater than 2 mm. 
Clastic sedimentary rocks are formed from particles of pre-existing sedimentary, metamorphic, or igneous rock that are deposited, compacted, and cemented together by natural p … rocesses. Clastic sedimentary rock is made of fragments of rocks cemented  together by a mineral such as calcite or quartz. Clastic sediments are sediments that have particles or pieces of rock (clasts) in them. The clasts can be of igneous, metamorphic or sedimentary rock.
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution. The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks.
Clastic sedimentary rocks are formed from particles of pre-existing sedimentary, metamorphic, or igneous rock that are deposited, compacted, and cemented together by natural p … rocesses. Clastic sedimentary rock is made of fragments of rocks cemented  together by a mineral such as calcite or quartz. Sediment compositions in classic rocks are determined based on the topgoraphy and georgraphy of the land from which they're found. The weather in any given area will determine the rocks composition.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution.
Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks.
Sediment composition in a clastic rock is determined by all of the following EXCEPT: A. Source rock crystals B. Transport agent C. Source rock composition D. The type of plant that grew near a river. Follow. 
Clastic sedimentary rocks are formed from the compaction and cementation of rock particles of various sizes which have been transported and deposited by the processes of erosi … on. Examples of clastic sedimentary rocks are shale, sandstone, and conglomerate. Clastic sediments are sediments that have particles or pieces of rock (clasts) in them. The clasts can be of igneous, metamorphic or sedimentary rock.