Sources of insoluble fiber include: 1  whole grain foods. 2  wheat and corn bran. 3  legumes such as beans and peas. 4  nuts and seeds. 5  potato skins. 6  lignans. 7  vegetables such as green beans, cauliflower, zucchini (courgette), celery, and nopal. 
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. Fiber is commonly classified as soluble, which dissolves in water, or insoluble, which doesn't dissolve. 1  Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels.
Lentils, kidney beans and garbanzo beans all contain at least 3 grams of insoluble fiber per 1/2 cup. Lima beans are even more impressive with 4 grams of insoluble fiber per 1/2 cup. Starchy vegetables, such as corn, potatoes, sweet potatoes, squash and green peas, also have high levels of insoluble fiber. Alternative Grains. Most whole grains contain insoluble fiber, which is found in the bran portion of the grain. Rye, barley and brown rice all contain high levels of insoluble fiber and are generally easy to find at grocery stores or health food stores. Avoid rye and barley if you are removing gluten from your diet
Insoluble fibers prevent constipation and form the basis of soft, bulky stool. Whole grain foods, dark leafy vegetables, fruit, nuts and seeds all contain insoluble fiber. Soluble fiber, on the other hand, creates a gel-like texture in your gut when mixed with liquid in your digestive tract. This gel helps slow down your digestion. A Dietary Alternative. Because most Americans don’t eat enough fiber, there is a robust market for fiber-rich foods (such as fiber or bran cereals) as well as fiber-rich supplements. The following soluble and insoluble fiber food list tells you exactly how much is contained in a diverse array of foods.
Insoluble fiber is found on the exterior and husk of plant foods like grains. Grains are one of the major sources of fiber in the American diet. Whole-wheat bread, wheat bran and corn bran are among the best known sources of insoluble fiber. Whole-grain breakfast cereals are an excellent source of insoluble fiber as they often contain wheat bran, among other grains. Brown rice, barley, couscous and bulgar are less well-known grains that provide insoluble fiber. Another source of insoluble fiber is plant proteins. Legumes are rich sources of fiber, but only contribute about six percent of fiber in the American diet due to its low consumption. The legume family includes beans, peas and lentils. Seeds such as sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds contribute insoluble fiber.
Other Foods. Popcorn is an excellent source of insoluble fiber, but you should avoid piling butter on this popped snack. Adding high-fat butter packs excessive calories on popcorn, which is naturally low in calories. Dried fruits, including dates and prunes, are well-known for their role in relieving constipation. Fruits and Vegetables. Insoluble fiber is the tough hard-to-chew part of grains and produce. For example, the soft inner part of apples is loaded with soluble fiber, but the outer skin that takes longer for you to chew is high in insoluble fiber.
Fiber comes in two forms: soluble and insoluble. Many high-fiber foods contain both types of fiber, but most foods have higher amounts of one or the other. If you want to increase your insoluble fiber intake, choose foods that are high in this nutrient. Fruits and Vegetables. Insoluble fiber is the tough hard-to-chew part of grains and produce. For example, the soft inner part of apples is loaded with soluble fiber, but the outer skin that takes longer for you to chew is high in insoluble fiber.