Global Entry is a program being piloted by U.S. Customs and Border Protection that allows pre-approved, low-risk travelers to receive expedited clearance upon arrival into the United States. As of December 2014, Global Entry was available at 42 U.S. airports and 12 preclearance locations. More than 1.8 million members are enrolled in Global Entry and approximately 50,000 new applications for the program are filed monthly. To enroll in Global Entry, applicants must first file an application with Customs and Border Protection, and then submit to an interview and background check. There is a $100 non-refundable fee for the application. During the interview, the applicant's fingerprints are captured and a digital photo is taken.
Global Entry Renewal Procedure. The Global Entry membership renewal process is the same as for first time applicants. Global Entry membership can be renewed 90 days preceding your Global Entry membership expiry date. Global Entry membership is valid for 5 years. When your Global Entry expires you renew your membership by filling out an application form and attending another interview at a Global Entry enrollment center. The United States is committed to safe and secure borders; over the last 5 years your status as a low risk traveler may have changed. 
Renew Your Global Entry Pass. The Global Entry pass is valid for 5 years. You can apply for renewal one year before your membership’s expiration date or at any time after expiration. The renewal process is similar to the first time application process. With our Express service, The Global Entry pass renewal will cost you $275.99. Initially you will pay a service fee of $175.99 to get the process started. You will be able to pay the $100 government fee after we enter your data into the GOES system. You will see two separate fees on your bank statement.
Even if you do pay for Global Entry, the $100 is well worth it because of the time saved both in security screening and immigrations lines and it’s one of the top travel tools out there for frequent flyers. 3. Children do not have to have Global Entry to go through TSA PreCheck with their parents. Those with GE qualify for the TSA’s PreCheck program, which can expedite security screening at US airports, depending on which carrier you fly.
With our Regular service, The Global Entry pass renewal will cost you $215.99. Initially you will pay a service fee of $115.99 to get the process started. You will be able to pay the $100 government fee after we enter your data into the GOES system. You will see two separate fees on your bank statement. With our Express service, The Global Entry pass renewal will cost you $275.99. Initially you will pay a service fee of $175.99 to get the process started. You will be able to pay the $100 government fee after we enter your data into the GOES system. You will see two separate fees on your bank statement.
If your passport renewal or replacement included a name change, updating your Global Entry account is a bit more involved. To update your account, you must: 1  Make an appointment to speak with a CBP officer at a Global Entry enrollment center. 2  Pay $25 for a new Global Entry card. You actually don’t need a sticker on your passport to use the Global Entry kiosks, as long as the information stored in the system is current. However, if you want a new sticker, you can visit a Global Entry, Nexus or SENTRI enrollment center to have one placed on your new passport.
You become eligible to renew your membership one year prior to program expiration. Follow these steps to renew Global Entry membership: 1  Log onto GOES (click here). 2  Select the BLUE Renew Application button next to Manage Membership-the Personal Information page will display. 3  Use the Application Wizard to change your personal information by selecting the specific category(ies) hyperlinks. 4  When complete, select U.S. Customs and ..
GLOBAL ENTRY PROGRAM FAQS Q: Who is eligible to participate in the Global Entry program? A: Global Entry is open to U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, Dutch, South Korean, UK, German, Qatari citizens and Mexican nationals. Canadian citizens and residents who are members of the NEXUS program are automatically entitled to Global Entry program benefits. A: SFO and most major US international airports have Global Entry kiosks; all locations are listed at http://www.globalentry.gov/locations.html Q: Does the Global Entry program cost anything? A: Yes. There is an application fee of $100 USD per applicant.