English Meaning: The name Cindy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cindy is: Dimunitive of Cynthia, Lucinda, and Cinderella. American Meaning: The name Cindy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cindy is: Dimunitive of Cynthia, Lucinda, and Cinderella.
In addition, Cindy is a diminutive form of the English name Cinderella. Cindy is also a diminutive form (English and Latin) of the English, German, and Greek name Cynthia. Cindy is also a diminutive form (Dutch and English) of the English, Portuguese, and Spanish name Lucinda. Cindy has 29 derivatives. [ 2 syll. cin-dy, ci-ndy ] The baby girl name Cindy is pronounced as S IH NDiy- †. Cindy is used mostly in English, Latin, and Dutch, and its language of origin is French and Old Greek. From the short form of other given names, but now used as an independent name in its own right.
Cynthia is a feminine given name of Greek origin: κυνθία, Kynthia, kynthía From Mount  cynthus On delos. Island it can be abbreviated As cindy or As. Cyndy there are various spellings for this. Name cynthia was originally an epithet of The greek goddess of the, Moon, artemis who according to, legend was born On Mount. cynthus Cynthia is a feminine given name of Greek origin: κυνθία, Kynthia, kynthía From Mount  cynthus On delos. Island it can be abbreviated As cindy or As. Cyndy there are various spellings for this. name
The meaning of Cindy is  Woman from Kynthos . Its origin is  English variant of the Greek name Cynthia . Cindy is a form of Cynthia and is generally pronounced like  SIN dee . Another meaning of Cindy is  Light . Its origin is  English variant of the Latin name Lucinda . Cindy is a form of Cynthia and is generally pronounced like  SIN dee . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. 
Meaning of Cindy. English name. In English, the name Cindy means-Dimunitive of Cynthia, Lucinda, and Cinderella.. Other origins for the name Cindy include-English, Greek.The name Cindy is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Dimunitive of Cynthia, Lucinda, and Cinderella. Origin-English.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Cindy and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Cindy and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Cindy are: The meaning of the name “Cindy” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available.
The name Cindy is of Greek origin, and it means Diminutive form of Cynthia or Lucinda . It's a name commonly given to girls. Cindy Crawford is a model, actress, and television personality with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1987 to present. 
Cindy /cin-dy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced SIN-dee. It is of English and Greek origin, and the meaning of Cindy is from Mount Kynthos. A pet form of Cynthia, and less often, of Latin Lucinda meaning light. Now commonly used as an independent name. It is sometimes used as a short form of the unrelated fairy-tale heroine's name Cinderella.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Cindy. Cindy is the English diminutive of Cynthia, a name that comes from the Greek “kynthia” meaning “woman from Mount Kynthos”.