They are the lower leg bones, usually referred to as the sural which means calf of the leg. The fibula is connected by a synovial joint to your other shin bone, the tibia. The … fibula is what makes your outer ankle bone. And the tibia makes your inner 'ankle' bone. The main job of the tibia is to form a hinge joint with the femur, which allows you to walk, run, kick a ball, and generally have fun.
For the ancient jewelry type, see Fibula (brooch) . The fibula (/ˈfɪbjʉlə/) or calf bone is a leg bone located on the lateral side of the tibia, with which it is connected above and below. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the slenderest of all the long bones. The bone has the following components: 1  Lateral malleolus. 2  Interosseous membrane connecting the fibula to the tibia, forming a syndesmoses joint. 3  The superior tibiofibular articulation is an arthrodial joint between the lateral condyle of the tibia and the head of the fibula.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Karatex. Confidence votes 624. The fibula is commonly known as the calf bone. It's the weight-bearing bone that extends to the ankle from the knee. It runs parallel to the tibia, which does is not weight-bearing. 
The fibula is commonly known as the calf bone. It's the weight-bearing bone that extends to the ankle from the knee. It runs parallel to the tibia, which does is not w … eight-bearing. The fibula is connected by a synovial joint to your other shin bone, the tibia. The … fibula is what makes your outer ankle bone. And the tibia makes your inner 'ankle' bone. The main job of the tibia is to form a hinge joint with the femur, which allows you to walk, run, kick a ball, and generally have fun.
Commonly, a bimalleolar fracture involves a broken lateral malleolus (fibula) and medial malleolus (tibia) and the ankle becomes unstable. A bimalleolar equivalent fracture means that the ligaments on the inside or medial side of the ankle are injured in addition to a fracture of one of the anklebones (malleoli). 1 Posterior malleolus: the rear part of the tibia. 2  A posterior malleolus fracture refers to a fracture of the back of the tibia at a level even with the ankle joint. 3  Oftentimes, this fracture involves a break in the lateral malleolus (fibula) because the bones share common ligament attachments.
The fibula is the long, thin and lateral bone of the lower leg. It runs parallel to the tibia, or shin bone, and plays a significant role in stabilizing the ankle and supporting the muscles of the lower leg. Compared to the tibia, the fibula is about the same length, but is considerably thinner. 
This is not to be confused with Perineal nerve. The common peroneal nerve (common fibular nerve; external popliteal nerve; lateral popliteal nerve), about one-half the size of the tibial nerve, is derived from the dorsal branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. It descends obliquely along the lateral side of the popliteal fossa to the head of the fibula, close to the medial margin of the biceps femoris muscle. Where the common peroneal nerve winds round the head of the fibula, it is palpable.