Mistakes happen and plans change, so we've worked with travelsupermarket.com to compare the costs imposed by UK and Eire's airlines to make any changes to your bookings. The cost of changing a flight or flight date can vary from £15 per person plus fare up to £40 per person. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all. You may be forced to change the date of your flight due to a personal or medical emergency. You should always get good quality travel insurance that will cover you for cancellation or amendments to bookings for insurable reasons. For example, a death in your family
The deals, however, don't stop there. Cheap Aer Lingus flights and tickets are also available to many other destinations. Expedia is your one-stop shop when looking for Aer Lingus reservations. We do all of the work for booking your holiday so you can concentrate on relaxing and enjoying your time overseas. Aer Lingus has an extensive network across the globe with direct flights to Dublin from many cities in the United States. The airline also has special offers for its route throughout Ireland and Britain. 
One free date change on your return flight without incurring the $150 change fee or differences in fares. Offers available on Aer Lingus direct transatlantic services from Boston, Chicago, New York, Orlando, San Francisco, Washington D.C. or Toronto to Ireland and are valid for individual student bookings only.
Additional baggage options are available for a fee. Book baggage online up to 2 hours before your flight and take advantage of online book discounts but remember baggage fees are non-refundable. Aer Lingus has a 3 bag maximum per passenger with all bags weighing no more than 55lbs in total. Excess weight is charged per kilo per flight in excess of the allowance. If a passenger arrives at the airport after check-in has closed, but before their flight has departed, they may change their flight at the airport to the next available Aer Lingus flight to the same destination, or another destination in the same country as the original booked flight for a fee of €75 or equivalent.
Changing flight dates on Aer Lingus????????!!!? My parents booked a holiday to Portugal for the 4th-11th August 2010. You really need to talk to the airline and hope they are in a good mood. Most tickets are no change no refund based. They may let you change the dates but they will charge you upwards of 50 Euros per person and probably for each leg of the flight too.
If you are changing the dates of travel the rules are as long as you change before the date of travel the minimum change fee is 25euro per sector. The minimum applies when the fare you paid is available for sale on the flight you are changing to. You'd normally be Ok with the misspelt name, but US flights are more stringent due to requirements to transmit passenger info to US authorities, etc. Under circumstances, you might get free name change. Change fee for US flights is €100 per person per sector (I think).
No additional personal items are permitted on Aer Lingus Regional flights.*Note: If flying a route connecting with an Aer Lingus Regional service the smaller baggage allowance applies to all parts of the journey.CheckedShorthaul flights (within Europe)Low Fare Economy passengers must pay for all checked baggage. If a passenger arrives at the airport after check-in has closed, but before their flight has departed, they may change their flight at the airport to the next available Aer Lingus flight to the same destination, or another destination in the same country as the original booked flight for a fee of €75 or equivalent.
Share: Aer Lingus is offering great savings on airfare and a free date change ($150 value) to students studying in Ireland. For families who want to visit etc, we are also offering great fares to them. Offers available on Aer Lingus direct transatlantic services from Boston, Chicago, New York, Orlando, San Francisco, Washington D.C. or Toronto to Ireland and are valid for individual student bookings only.
Join Today! Aer Lingus Online Check-in. Save great time at the airport with the Online Check-in service offered by Aer Lingus. You can Check-in Online up to 30 hours to 2 hours in advance before your flights scheduled departure time. The airline offers 30-day advance Online Check-in on selected routes. 