Metropolitan France has a varied topography that consists of flat plains and/or low rolling hills in the north and west, while the rest of the country is mountainous with the Pyrenees in the south and the Alps in the east. The highest point in France is Mont Blanc at 15,771 feet (4,807 m). The climate of Metropolitan France varies with ones location but most of the country cool winters and mild summers, while the Mediterranean region has mild winters and hot summers. Metropolitan France is the part of France that is located in Western Europe to the southeast of the United Kingdom along the Mediterranean Sea, the Bay of Biscay and the English Channel.
Monaco 's elevation range is among the greatest relative to surface area. Within its 2.02 km 2 territory, there is a difference of 140 m between its highest and lowest points, equivalent to an average gradient of 69 m for every km 2. Other countries with high low points include Rwanda (950 m) and Andorra (840 m). The Maldives have the world's lowest high point at 2.4 m. Other countries with very low high points include Tuvalu (5 m) and the Marshall Islands (10 m).
Mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in north and west. The remainder is mountainous, especially Pyrenees in south, Alps in east. Elevation extremes: 1  Lowest point: Rhone rhône river -delta 2. 2  M highest: Point Mont 4,808 4808.  m Mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in north and west. The remainder is mountainous, especially Pyrenees in south, Alps in east. Elevation extremes: 1  Lowest point: Rhone rhône river -delta 2.  m
What is the highest point and its elevation in France?   Mont Blanc, sometimes also called La Dame Blanche (The White Lady), elevation 15,774 feet (4,808 meters).   There is a bit of contention as to whether the peak is in … France or in Italy. The Mont Blanc (4,810 m) summit is located in France on the border with Italy, in the Alps mountain range. It is also Europe's highest mountain. + 21 others found this useful. Ayesha Zaman. Edit. Share to: Username: Yourspam. I am French, born and bred in France.
Mountains dominate eastern, south central and southern France, including the snowcapped Alps that stretch along its border with Italy, then on into Switzerland and across southern Europe. The country's highest point, and the second highest point in Europe is located here; Mont Blanc at 15,770 ft. (4,807m). Further to the north the limestone peaks of the Jura range front the country's eastern border with Switzerland. 
France borders the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean. To the west is the Bay of Biscay, to the north is the English Channel and the North Sea. France also has territory in South America, the Caribbean, and the Indian Ocean, as well as numerous territories of various status. Mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in north and west. The remainder is mountainous, especially Pyrenees in south, Alps in east. Elevation extremes: 1  Lowest point: Rhone rhône river -delta 2.  m
Mont Blanc is the highest mountain in France. Its peak lies on the border of France and Italy, but geographically, it is considered to be within France's borders. Its elevatio … n is 4,810 m (15,780 ft) above sea level. The Mont Blanc (4,810 m) summit is located in France on the border with Italy, in the Alps mountain range. It is also Europe's highest mountain. + 21 others found this useful. Ayesha Zaman. Edit. Share to: Username: Yourspam. I am French, born and bred
Of all countries, Lesotho has the world's highest low point at 1400 m. Other countries with high low points include Rwanda (950 m) and Andorra (840 m). The Maldives have the world's lowest high point at 2.4 m. Other countries with very low high points include Tuvalu (5 m) and the Marshall Islands (10 m).
Coastline: 2,129 miles (3,427 km). Highest Point: Mont Blanc at 15,771 feet (4,807 m). Lowest Point: Rhone River delta at -6.5 feet (-2 m). France, officially called the Republic of France, is a country located in Western Europe. The country also has several overseas territories and islands around the world but the mainland of France is called Metropolitan France. Metropolitan France is the part of France that is located in Western Europe to the southeast of the United Kingdom along the Mediterranean Sea, the Bay of Biscay and the English Channel.
Mont Blanc, sometimes also called La Dame Blanche (The White Lady), elevation 15,774 feet (4,808 meters). There is a bit of contention as to whether the peak is in France or in Italy. The highest point in Chicago, is located approximately 150 feet north of west 95th Street on Claremont Avenue in the Beverly neighborhood. (94th & Claremont-the rise is visible).