mullion-a nonstructural vertical strip between the casements or panes of a window (or the panels of a screen). strip, slip-artifact consisting of a narrow flat piece of material. window-a framework of wood or metal that contains a glass windowpane and is built into a wall or roof to admit light or air. Translations. mul•lion. 1. a vertical member, as of stone or wood, between the lights of a window, the panels in wainscoting, or the like. 2. to furnish with, or to form into divisions by the use of, mullions. [1560–70; metathetic variant of monial (now obsolete), Middle English mo(y)niel, moynel mean 3 -al 1 ]. Past participle: mullioned
It is important to distinguish between mullioned windows and windows which are divided into a grid of panes by muntins, sometimes called glazing bars. Mullioned windows often have unusual shapes, and they are frequently arched at the top. Larger mullioned windows may be used to illustrate a brief story or allegory, especially in church architecture. In this sense, the windows are more decorative than functional, since the stained glass obscures the flow of light into the building.
Ad. It is not uncommon to see stained glass installed in mullion windows. Larger mullioned windows may be used to illustrate a brief story or allegory, especially in church architecture. In this sense, the windows are more decorative than functional, since the stained glass obscures the flow of light into the building.
Full Definition of MULLION. : a slender vertical member that forms a division between units of a window, door, or screen or is used decoratively. — mullion transitive verb. 
Mullioned windows are windows which are divided into adjacent panes with the use of mullions, which are vertical elements used to break up a space. Mullions are especially associated with Gothic design, and some very fine examples of mullioned doors and windows can be seen in Gothic cathedrals and homes. Larger mullioned windows may be used to illustrate a brief story or allegory, especially in church architecture. In this sense, the windows are more decorative than functional, since the stained glass obscures the flow of light into the building.
When dividing adjacent window units, its primary purpose is to provide structural support to an arch or lintel above the window opening. Its secondary purpose may be as a rigid support to the glazing of the window. When used to support glazing, they are teamed with horizontal supporting elements called  transoms . In the commercial door industry, the term floating mullion is also applied to an interlock profile which is fitted in between a pair of double swing doors. Mullions may be made of any material, but wood and aluminum are most common, although glass is also used between windows. I.M. Pei, in his design of JFK Airport's Terminal 6 (National Airlines Sundrome) used all-glass mullions, unprecedented at the time.
A mullion is a vertical element that forms a division between units of a window, door, or screen, or is used decoratively. Mullions may be made of any material, but wood and aluminum are most common, although glass is also used between windows. I.M. Pei, in his design of JFK Airport's Terminal 6 (National Airlines Sundrome) used all-glass mullions, unprecedented at the time.
A mullion is a type of cabinet door that features glass panels rather than solid wood. The glass panels have dividing bars similar to those found in window panes. A mullion is a cabinet door that is composed of glass panes. The panes are separated by wood or aluminum strips, which create a grid. This mimics the feature that is found on many types of windows.
The whole shebang-sash, jambs, sill and everything else-is called a window. Mullion/muntin: A mullion is a heavy vertical or horizontal member between adjoining window units. Muntins are the narrow strips of wood that divide the individual panes of glass in a traditional sash. 