Bipolar disorder can be present even when mood swings are less extreme. For example, some people with bipolar disorder experience hypomania, a less severe form of mania. During a hypomanic episode, you may feel very good, be highly productive, and function well. Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive illness, is a brain disorder that causes unusual shifts in mood, energy, activity levels, and the ability to carry out day-to-day tasks. Symptoms of bipolar disorder are severe.
It also helps you stay on your medication -- and helps you deal with effects of bipolar disorder on your social and work life. It can help you maintain a positive self-image. Types of psychotherapy used to treat bipolar disorder include: 1  Behavioral therapy. 2  This focuses on behaviors that decrease stress. bipolar in children and teens, mixed bipolar disorder, bipolar symptoms, schizophrenia, cyclothymia, mental health, bipolar 1, depression, managing mania, ADD/ADHD, rapid cycling bipolar, bipolar 2. © 2008 WebMD, LLC.
1 Whether you have bipolar I or II disorder, you'll typically need mood-stabilizing medication to control manic or hypomanic episodes. 2  Examples of mood stabilizers include lithium (Lithobid), valproic acid (Depakene), divalproex sodium (Depakote), carbamazepine (Tegretol, Equetro, others) and lamotrigine (Lamictal). 1 Children and teens with bipolar disorder are often prescribed the same types of medications as those used in adults. 2  There's less research on the safety and effectiveness of bipolar medications in children than in adults, so treatment decisions are often based on adult research. 3  Psychotherapy.
A number of medications are used to treat bipolar disorder. The types and doses of medications prescribed are based on your particular symptoms. Medications may include: 1  Mood stabilizers. 1 Children and teens with bipolar disorder are often prescribed the same types of medications as those used in adults. 2  There's less research on the safety and effectiveness of bipolar medications in children than in adults, so treatment decisions are often based on adult research. 3  Psychotherapy.
They include: 1  Lithium is the main medication used for bipolar disorder and is usually the first drug prescribed. 2  Antiseizure medications used for bipolar disorder treatment include valproic acid (Depakene, generic), divalproex sodium (Depakote, generic), and lamotrigine (Lamictal, generic). Bipolar Disorder Symptoms. In bipolar disorder, manic symptoms alternate with depressive symptoms. Manic symptoms include: 1  Exaggerated euphoria. 2  Irritability. 3  Poor concentration. 4  High energy and decreased need for sleep.
Medications vary depending on the phase of the illness: acute mania, acute depression or long-term treatment. 1 Medication selection is also based on specific symptoms and severity. Common medications used in the treatment of bipolar disorder include: 1  Antipsychotics such as haloperidol (Haldol) , ziprasidone (Geodon) , quetiapine (Seroquel) and risperidon (Risperdal). 2  Lithium. 3  Anticonvulsants (often called mood stabilizers) like Valproate (Depakote) and lamotrigine (Lamictal). 
Medications commonly used for bipolar include:• Antipsychotic medication, used to control psychotic symptoms and severe agitation• Mood stabilisers, which are the mainstay of maintenance therapy and improve symptoms during acute manic episodes• Lithium is the most commonly used mood stabiliser. Bipolar disorder is a mental illness that was previously referred to as manic depression. It affects the normal functioning of the brain so that the person experiences extreme moods – mania and depression. People may also experience psychosis in the manic and/or depressed phase.
A number of medications are used to treat bipolar disorder. The medication with the best evidence is lithium, which is effective in treating acute manic episodes and preventing relapses; lithium is also an effective treatment for bipolar depression. Bipolar disorder, also known as bipolar affective disorder and manic-depressive illness, is a mental disorder characterized by periods of elevated mood and periods of depression. The elevated mood is significant and is known as mania or hypomania depending on the severity or whether there is psychosis.
In the UK, lithium carbonate (often referred to as just lithium) is the medication most commonly used to treat bipolar disorder. Lithium is a long-term method of treatment for episodes of mania, hypomania and depression. It is usually prescribed for at least six months. Treatment options for bipolar disorder. If a person is not treated, episodes of bipolar-related mania can last for between three and six months. Episodes of depression tend to last longer, for between 6 and 12 months. However, with effective treatment, episodes usually improve within about three months.
1 Bipolar disorder is an illness which can require long-term treatment. 2  Skilled medical management is needed. 3  Different medications are used to treat acute episodes of mania and of depression, and other medications ('mood stabilisers') are used to keep episodes at bay or to augment acute treatments. 1 It is hard for most people to accept a diagnosis of bipolar disorder and, for younger people the prospect of taking preventative medication for long periods is very unappealing. 2  Other people fail to take medication either because they find the experience of mania seductive, or because of the unpleasant side-effects.