World War I officially ended with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles on June 28, 1919. Negotiated among the Allied powers with little participation by Germany, its 15 parts and 440 articles reassigned German boundaries and assigned liability for reparations. 
Hang the Kaiser! Popular British newspaper slogan during the negotiation of the Treaty of Versailles. On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. Did you Know. The Treaty of Versailles was signed on 28 June 1919 - the date was the fifth anniversary of the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife, the event which sparked the outbreak of World War I.
The USA was part of the AlliesThe USA was part of the Allied Powers and joined them in 1917, when Russia left he Allied Powers. The Allied Powers formed form the Triple Ente … nte, which was composed of Russia, England, and France. The Central Powers were composed of Bulgaria, Turkey, Germany, and Austria-Hungary. Although Italy was part of the Triple Alliance, which was with Germany and Austria-Hungary, they switched to the Allied Powers when WWI sparked with the assassination of the Australio-Hungario empire. The US joined the Allied Powers when it declared war on Germany, which was one of three Central Powers: Germany, Austria-Hungary & Turkey.
By Jennifer Rosenberg. The Versailles Treaty, signed on June 28, 1919, was the peace settlement between Germany and the Allied Powers that officially ended World War I. The details of the Versailles Treaty had been debated and finalized at the Paris Peace Conference, which opened on January 18, 1919 - just over two months after the fighting on the Western Front ended. Although many diplomats from the Allied Powers participated, Germany was not invited to the conference.
the German people feared that the French of the British would soon gain control of the Polish corridor. Correct Answer Number: 1. Explanation: Under the Treaty of Versailles, Germany lost large areas of land, was forced to pay large reparations, and accept complete responsibility for the start of World War One. In the 1920 s and 1930 s, the rise of totalitarian governments in Germany, Italy, and Spain was largely the result of. the success of the Communists in establishing a command economy in the Soviet Union.
The treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for causing the war (WWl) and everyhing that had happened in it. At the conference which decided the terms of the treaty, Germany was n … ot permitted to speak, while France and England were. On a related note, the Treaty of Versailles was not a  complete aberration, in that a fair number of prior treaties had  included provisions that forced restitution payments, stripped the  loser of territory, and imposed military or political restrictions  on the loser.
The Paris Peace Conference was the meeting of the Allied victors, following the end of World War I to set the peace terms for the defeated Central Powers following the armistices of 1918. It took place in Paris during 1919 and involved diplomats from more than 32 countries and nationalities. 
The Treaty of Versailles was the Treaty the Allied Powers forced Germany to sign after World War I. Not World War II. The Treaty blamed Germany for the entire war and made the … Germans pay enormous fines. Germany wasn't aloud to anex any more territory and it's Armed Forces had to stay at a certain number. On a related note, the Treaty of Versailles was not a  complete aberration, in that a fair number of prior treaties had  included provisions that forced restitution payments, stripped the  loser of territory, and imposed military or political restrictions  on the loser.
Which idea was included in the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles to show the intent of the Allies to punish the Central Powers for their role in World War II? 