Abnormal Electrocardiogram (Definition). Abnormal electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) is a test result in which the EKG recording of the heart's electrical activity shows problems such as rhythm problems, extra beats, skipped beats, fluid around the heart, damaged heart muscle, etc ...Read more.
The most important sign of Brugada syndrome is an abnormal pattern on an electrocardiogram (ECG) called a type 1 Brugada ECG pattern. You can't feel a Brugada sign — it's only detected on an ECG. ... Causes Brugada syndrome is a heart rhythm disorder. ...
Abnormality in ECG report generally means that the electrical system of your heart is not working properly. Abnormal ECG results may indicate heart block, Tachycardia, Bradycardia, Premature atrial contraction, heart attack and many other heart conditions.
Guide. An exercise electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) is a test that checks for changes in your heart while you exercise. Sometimes EKG abnormalities can be seen only during exercise or while symptoms are present. This test is sometimes called a stress test or a  treadmill test ..
RE: What are some possible causes of an abnormal EKG? Can it be something simple? Thursday a cardiologist told me I had an abnormal EKG, but he did not elaborate. Now I have several tests on Tuesday (nuclear stress test, echocardiogram, and whatever it's called where they measure the pulse in your feet).
Get help from a doctor now ›. No.: Usually anxiety doesn't cause an abnormal ekg. Anxiety can make your heart rate faster, but shouldn't affect the electrical conduction of the heart. The cardiologist who did your original ekg would be a great person to get a second opinion on this.
An abnormal EKG can be a cause for great concern because of what it means. In this following article we will look through why an abnormal EKG can come about and in addition, highlight the causes of the same. Advertisement.
What are other possible causes? ... An ECG can show disturbances in the electrical activity of your heart, which can detect abnormal heart rhythms and areas of injury ... Electrodes at the catheter tips transmit energy to damage a small spot of abnormal heart tissue that is causing the ...