The Emergence of Maggots. Flies begin as eggs, which look like grains of rice. The eggs hatch between 8 and 20 hours after an adult fly lays them. What emerge from the eggs are larvae, also called maggots. Maggots can be half an inch long, are off-white and resemble worms. A maggot's head is the thin side. A visible mouth with a hook is found there. The other end of the maggot is thicker and displays two kidney-shaped markings. The maggot breathes from those kidney-shaped marks called spiracles. 
Informally, such Brachyceran larvae are called maggots, but the term is nontechnical and often applied indifferently to fly larvae or insect larvae in general. The eyes and antennae of Brachyceran larvae are reduced or absent, and the abdomen also lacks appendages such as cerci. For other uses, see flying (disambiguation) , fly (disambiguation) , flies (disambiguation) , or flight. True flies are insects of the order Diptera (from the Greek di = two, and ptera = wings).
You can read more about it at: http://www.Maggotdrowning.com. Maggots or as they are sometimes called 'gentles,' are as everyone knows the larvae of flies. The word gentle implies amiable, mild, aristocratic, courteous, or tame; making the name 'gentle' a very odd choice to call a maggot. Actually throughout history, maggots have been extremely beneficial in medicine. Some accomplished anglers even go so far as to stain the live maggots pink and other seductive colours. Fishing live maggots, using thread-line or fly gear To bait a hook using maggots, impale three or four by putting the point of a wet or dry fly hook through the thick end-the tail end of the maggots.
Myiasis is a the term used to describe a maggot infestation. Maggots are fly larva that feed on necrotic and dying tissue. Especially prone are those dogs confined to the outdoors with situations in which their skin remains moist. 
Maggot is not a technical term and should not be taken as such; in many standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the index at all. In many non-technical texts the term is used for insect larvae in general. Flies reproduce rapidly in the summer months and maggots can come in large numbers, creating a maggot infestation and a high risk of myiasis (a maggot infestation of living tissue) in sheep and other animals. Humans are not immune to the feeding habits of maggots and can also contract myiasis.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I can only assume this (as I'm not a Slipknot fan...), but I'd figure that since a 'slipknot' is also known as a 'hangman's knot', it's a reference to suicide, and maggots thrive off the product of the suicide: a corpse... just as fans thrive off the product of the band: the music. I don't quite understand why Slipknot calls its own fans maggots,altough I'm a hughe fan of them. Well, not that hughe that I understand why they're called that way yet. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
Maggots on porcupine carcass. A maggot is the larva of a fly (order Diptera); it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and Crane flies. Contents. Flies reproduce rapidly in the summer months and maggots can come in large numbers, creating a maggot infestation and a high risk of myiasis (a maggot infestation of living tissue) in sheep and other animals. Humans are not immune to the feeding habits of maggots and can also contract myiasis.
A maggot is baby fly! A baby cat is called a kitten, and people usually think they’re really cute and cuddly tiny versions of cats. Baby dogs are called puppies. This isn’t really the case with baby flies. Maggots don’t look anything like adult flies. They’re very small and usually very pale. They look sort of like a caterpillar. Whether or not you think they’re cute is a matter of opinion, but they definitely don’t look like flies.
Maggots are fly larvae, and they can be hard to eliminate. Whether they have infested your trash can, your home or you have somehow managed to have them as part of an infection on your body (myiasis), you need to know how to kill maggots in order to successfully get rid of these creatures. Flies breed mainly in decaying meat and fish. This means that if you want to prevent maggots from being able to hatch, you'll need to stop allowing excess meat and fish into your trash. Here are a couple solutions for attacking the source of the problem. 1  Wrap excess meat and fish before you toss it.