Ponente (Sicily) sea water temperatures peak in the range 24 to 28°C (75 to 82°F) on around the 14th of August and are at their lowest on about the 1st of March, in the range 14 to 15°C (57 to 59°F). Year round warm sea water temperatures at Ponente (Sicily) climb to their warmest in mid August. Below is a graph of Historical Sea Surface Temperature for Ponente (Sicily). This has been derived from analysis of two decades of oceanographic satellite measurements of nearby open water.
In the same week the minimum temperature will be 14℃ (or 56℉) on Sunday 25 th October at around 4 am. Our Palermo weather forecaster is reporting Wednesday 21 st October to be the wettest day in the coming week with around 7.30mm (or 0.3 inches) of rainfall. The Palermo weather is going to be sunny. Palermo visibility is going to be around 10 km i.e. 6 miles and an atmospheric pressure of 1021 mb. The daytime temperature is going to reach 24 °c and the temperature is going to dip to 16 °c at night.
The lowest sea water temperatures at Ponente (Sicily) at the beginning of March are ideally suited to a 4/3mm wetsuit + 3mm boots, although a 5/3mm wetsuit may be preferable for longer sessions and cold windy days. Below is a graph of Historical Sea Surface Temperature for Ponente (Sicily). This has been derived from analysis of two decades of oceanographic satellite measurements of nearby open water.
Sicily's average annual rainfall is a little more than 23 inches per year with October, November and December as the wettest months with more than three inches of rain each month. Climate Zone. Sicily's Mediterranean location places it directly in the middle of the Mediterranean climate zone, which only covers 2 percent of the Earth's surface and is also called the dry summer subtropical climate.
On the whole winds are likely to be moderate. We provide Taormina holiday weather for the next 7 and 14 days. The 7 day weather for Taormina provides weather information in 3 hourly intervals for each day and our 14 day Taormina weather provides weather data in 6 hourly intervals. We also provide monthly climate averages for Taormina. Over the next 7 days the Taormina forecast suggests the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 23°C, with a high for the week of 25°C expected on the afternoon of Wednesday 28th.
Sicily holiday weather information. We provide Sicily holiday weather for the next 7 and 14 days. The 7 day weather for Sicily provides weather information in 3 hourly intervals for each day and our 14 day Sicily weather provides weather data in 6 hourly intervals. We also provide monthly climate averages for Sicily. The outlook for Sicily in the two weeks ahead shows the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 22°C, with a high for the two weeks of 26°C expected on the afternoon of Thursday 29th.
Complete with jacuzzi, sauna, heated pool and open fire why not try... In the deep midwinter the average temperatures on the coast should still be hovering around the 13°C mark, though on sunny days it can be warm enough in the sun to walk around in a tee-shirt. It is cooler at night and much cooler in the higher mountains. 
Sicily: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Sicily with an average temperature of 22°C (72°F) and the coldest is January at 9°C (48°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 14 in July. The wettest month is December with an average of 78.6mm of rain. 
Sicily's temperature is moderated by the warm Mediterranean sea and its location in proximity to the equators. Sea temperatures around Sicily range from around 60 degrees Fahrenheit in the winter to approximately 80 degrees in the summer. Climate Zone. Sicily's Mediterranean location places it directly in the middle of the Mediterranean climate zone, which only covers 2 percent of the Earth's surface and is also called the dry summer subtropical climate.
Long range weather outlook for Sicily includes 14 day forecast summary: The outlook for Sicily in the two weeks ahead shows the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 22°C, with a high for the two weeks of 26°C expected on the afternoon of Thursday 29th.