Title II of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA), which prohibits genetic information discrimination in employment, took effect on November 21, 2009. Under Title II of GINA, it is illegal to discriminate against employees or applicants because of genetic information. 1 Genetic information may be acquired through a genetic monitoring program that monitors the biological effects of toxic substances in the workplace where the monitoring is required by law or, under carefully defined conditions, where the program is voluntary.
The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA) is a federal law that protects individuals from genetic discrimination in health insurance and employment. The genetic information protected by the law includes family health history, the results of genetic tests, the use of genetic counseling and other genetic services, and participation in genetic research.
Genetic information includes information about an individual s genetic tests and the genetic tests of an individual s family members, as well as information about the manifestation of a disease or disorder in an individual s family members (i.e. family medical history). 1 Genetic information may be acquired through a genetic monitoring program that monitors the biological effects of toxic substances in the workplace where the monitoring is required by law or, under carefully defined conditions, where the program is voluntary.
The EEOC enforces Title II of GINA (dealing with genetic discrimination in employment). The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and the Treasury have responsibility for issuing regulations for Title I of GINA, which addresses the use of genetic information in health insurance. 1 Genetic information may be acquired through a genetic monitoring program that monitors the biological effects of toxic substances in the workplace where the monitoring is required by law or, under carefully defined conditions, where the program is voluntary.
Genetic Information Law & Legal Definition. Genetic information means the hereditary information about DNA sequence, genetic sequence, genes, gene products, or inherited characteristics contained in chromosomal DNA or RNA that are derived from an individual or family member. The term genetic information with respect to any individual is defined under 42 USCS § 300gg-91 (d) (16) as information about : (i) such individual's genetic tests; (ii) the genetic tests of family members of such individual; and. (iii) the manifestation of a disease or disorder in family members of such individual
Genetics is the study of genes, heredity, and genetic variation in living organisms. It is generally considered a field of biology, but it intersects frequently with many of the life sciences and is strongly linked with the study of information systems. Trait inheritance and molecular inheritance mechanisms of genes are still a primary principle of genetics in the 21st century, but modern genetics has expanded beyond inheritance to studying the function and behavior of genes.
Genetic information. Genetic information. The heritable biological information coded in the nucleotide sequences of dna or rna (certain viruses), such as in the chromosomes or in plasmids. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 3 October 2005, at 21:16.This page has been accessed 41,849 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link.
noun. The genetic potential of an organism carried in the base sequence of its DNA (or, in some viruses, RNA) according to the genetic code. Example sentences. 1  Finally, DNA represents the conserved genetic information and has more or less to be synthesized only once per cell cycle. 1 Finally, DNA represents the conserved genetic information and has more or less to be synthesized only once per cell cycle. 2  The discovery that RNA can carry genetic information has led to other discoveries as well.
In particular, a federal law called the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) is designed to protect people from this form of discrimination. GINA has two parts: Title I, which prohibits genetic discrimination in health insurance, and Title II, which prohibits genetic discrimination in employment. Title I makes it illegal for health insurance providers to use or require genetic information to make decisions about a person’s insurance eligibility or coverage.