A list of words that contain Var, and words with var in them. This page brings back any words that contain the word or letter you enter from a large scrabble dictionary. We also have lists of Words that end with var, and words that start with var. Search for words that start with a letter or word: 
To understand how Greek and Latin roots word are used in constructing terminology: 1  First, look a root word up in the dictionary; 2  Then, look up similarly spelled prefixes and suffixes in the prefix and suffix dictionary on this site, which gives examples to show how these roots function in word origins; Latin and Greek Root Words. The Greek and Latin roots listed in this dictionary are words from which the prefixes and suffixes used in constructing biological terminology are frequently derived. Often, multiple prefixes and suffixes are based on a single root.
The Latin root word var means different. (Examples:). Variation: A different form of something, variant. Variable: Apt or liable to vary or change; changeable. The Greek root ek means outside of or around; thus, ecto would be the outer layer, as in ectoplasm.
Some other words with the same root word of dict are contradict, which means to speak against; dictation, w … hich means to write down what someone says; predict, which means to say what will happen before it occurs; and dictionary, which means a reference book in which spoken or written words are defined. 
Root Word Dictionary is one of the most comprehensive online dictionaries of word roots. Here, you'll find the meanings of all the Greek and Latin root words commonly used in constructing biological and medical terminology. Latin and Greek Root Words. The Greek and Latin roots listed in this dictionary are words from which the prefixes and suffixes used in constructing biological terminology are frequently derived. Often, multiple prefixes and suffixes are based on a single root.
Many English words are made up of word parts from the other languages, especially Greek and Latin. These word parts are called roots. A root cannot stand alone, but knowing its meaning helps you figure out the meaning of the whole word. A group of words with the same root is called a word family. Study the chart of Greek and Latin roots below. 
Greek and Latin Roots-Math Many English words are made up of word parts from other languages, especially Greek and Latin. These word parts are called roots. A root cannot stand alone, but knowing its meaning helps you figure out the meaning of the whole word. A group of words with the same root is called a word family. Study the chart of Greek and Latin roots below. 
• VAR. (noun). The noun VAR. has 1 sense: 1. (biology) a group of organisms within a species that differ in trivial ways from similar groups. Familiarity information: VAR. used as a noun is very rare. 
Quick Summary. The Latin root word ver means “truth” or “true.” This root is the word origin of a fair number of English vocabulary words, including ver dict and ver acity. The root ver is easily recalled through the word ver y, for when something is ver y good, it’s “truly” good. A Truly Very Good Root! The Latin root word ver means “truth” or “true.” Today we’ll take a ver y or “truly” close look at this Latin root—that’s the “truth!”. When a jury gives a ver dict in a court case, it says what it thinks is the “truth” about the guilt or innocence of the defendant.