Interphase is the first and longest stage of the cell cycle. MORE: Interphase is made up of three distince phases (G1, S and G2 phase). The problem is that the cell cycle phas … es are actually all rather fluid; they overlap and can vary in length. In addition in some cases the cell does not need to undergo the full G1 or G2 phases such as in the early replication of zygotes. The actual longest phase of the cell cycle is what is called G0. This is the state the cell goes into where it is not preparing for the cell cycle. Most of your cells are in G0 right now.
The whole cell cycle is called mitosis: Stage 1: Prophase Stage 2: Metaphase Stage 3: Anaphase Stage 4: Telophase According to my textbook interphase takes the longest, which is not numbered as a stage but the last step in the entire cell cycle. Report Abuse. First growth period, DNA synthesis, and second growth period are all part of interphase. What happens after interphase is cell division (mitosis/meiosis). Interphase is the longest phase of th
Many cells in one stage of mitosis means that that stage takes a long time to complete. During interphase the nucleus of the cell is intact. This phase takes about 80 percent of the time required to complete the cell cycle. During cell division, the nucleus disappears after prophase. This division of cells is referred to as mitosis. During the cell cycle, a cell grows, prepares for division, and divides to create two daughter cells. The three main stages of the cell cycle are interphase, mitosis, and cytokinesis.
The length of S phase varies according to the total DNA that the particular cell contains; the rate of synthesis of DNA is fairly constant between cells and species. Usually, cells will take between 5 and 6 hours to complete S phase. G2 is shorter, lasting only 3 to 4 hours in most cells. In sum, then, interphase generally takes between 18 and 20 hours. Mitosis, during which the cell makes preparations for and completes cell division only takes about 2 hours. Certain fly embryos sport cell cycles that last only 8 minutes per cycle! Some mammals take much longer than that--up to a year in certain liver cells. Generally, however, for fast-dividing mammalian cells, the length of the cycle is approximately 24 hours.
Report Abuse. Synthesis phase: 10 hours This is when chromosomes replicate First growth phase: 9 hours Second growth phase: 2 hours Mitosis/Cell division: 1 hour. Source(s): Synthesis, G1 ansd G2 phases are all part of Interphase, if thats the answer you're looking for. Report Abuse. First growth period, DNA synthesis, and second growth period are all part of interphase. What happens after interphase is cell division (mitosis/meiosis). Interphase is the longest phase of the cell cycle.
The cell cycle. Actively dividing eukaryote cells pass through a series of stages known collectively as the cell cycle: two gap phases (G1 and G2); an S (for synthesis) phase, in which the genetic material is duplicated; and an M phase, in which mitosis partitions the genetic material and the cell divides. 1  G1 phase. 
G1 is typically the longest phase of the cell cycle. This can be explained by the fact that G1 follows cell division in mitosis; G1 represents the first chance for new cells have to grow. Certain fly embryos sport cell cycles that last only 8 minutes per cycle! Some mammals take much longer than that--up to a year in certain liver cells. Generally, however, for fast-dividing mammalian cells, the length of the cycle is approximately 24 hours.
Confidence votes 34. Interphase is the longest phase in the cell cycle lasting 18 of the 20 hour cycle. In mitotic cell division cycle,the longest phase is G1 phase which lasts for 10 hours,S phase is for 9 hours,G2 phase for 4 hours and shortest phase is M phase which lasts for 1 hour. In addition in some cases the cell does not need to undergo the full G1 or G2 phases such as in the early replication of zygotes. The actual longest phase of the cell cycle is what is called G0. This is the state the cell goes into where it is not preparing for the cell cycle. Most of your cells are in G0 right now.
Interphase is the longest phase in the cell cycle, because, in that phase, the cell needs to grow, duplicate and replicate chromatin and other parts, and prepare itself for th … e mitotic phases. Interphase has three stages, G1, S, and G2. In addition in some cases the cell does not need to undergo the full G1 or G2 phases such as in the early replication of zygotes. The actual longest phase of the cell cycle is what is called G0. This is the state the cell goes into where it is not preparing for the cell cycle. Most of your cells are in G0 right now.
The cell cycle is the life cycle of a cell, as it grows, replicates its chromosomes, separates its chromosomes and divides. The cell cycle is divided into two distinct parts: interphase and the mitotic phase or the M-phase. Interphase is the longest part of the cell cycle. The first part of Interphase involves cell growth and is called the Gap 1 Phase or the G1-Phase. The G1-Phase is followed by the Synthesis Phase, or S-Phase. During this part of Interphase, the chromosomes located in the nucleus are copied or replicated as the cell prepares to divide. The final segment of Interphase is called the Gap 2 Phase or G2-Phase. This is another period of growth for the cell. The last stage of the cell cycle is cytokinesis, or the division of the cytoplasm. In animal cells the cell membrane pinches in half. In plant cells, a new cell wall begins to grow in an area called the cell plate located between the two new nuclei until they are separated into two new cells.