“Injection molding is a manufacturing process for producing parts by injecting material into a mould. Injection moulding can be performed with a host of materials, including metals, glasses, elastomers, confections, and most commonly thermoplastic and thermosetting polymers. Hence, parts to be injection moulded needs to be designed with sufficient care keeping into account, the substance used for the part, the desired shape and features of the part, mould material and also the various properties of the moulding machine.
Injection Moulding is the most important plastics manufacturing process. It produces such small products as bottle tops; sink plugs, children's toys, containers, model kits, disposable razors and parts of cameras. It is also used to manufacture larger items such as dustbins, and milk crates. The process can even mould such large items as dingy hulls and kit car body shell parts. Injection moulding used to be operated by people on the factory floor but these days it is a form of highly automated form of production.
Thermoplastic injection moulding is the process of injected hot plastic or glass into a mould to form a specific shape or product. Often used to make smaller parts for toys or … machinery. 1 person found this useful. Injection molding plastic is a tool used to mold hard material through thermal heat, for example steel or aluminum are not metals that could be heated using the tool which mak … es the material easier to manipulate or mold into varies of shapes.
Parts to be injection moulded must be very carefully designed to facilitate the moulding process; the material used for the part, the desired shape and features of the part, the material of the mould, and the properties of the moulding machine must all be taken into account. In the field of injection moulding, troubleshooting is often performed by examining defective parts for specific defects and addressing these defects with the design of the mould or the characteristics of the process itself.
Plastic housing is one of the most common finished products of injection moulding, used to produce thin-walled plastic parts. Plastic housing is a thin-walled enclosure, many a time demanding many ribs and bosses on the inside. Hence, parts to be injection moulded needs to be designed with sufficient care keeping into account, the substance used for the part, the desired shape and features of the part, mould material and also the various properties of the moulding machine.
Injection molding is a commonly used manufacturing process for the fabrication of plastic parts. the injection molding process need injection mold and injection machine. Injection molding plastic is a tool used to mold hard material through thermal heat, for example steel or aluminum are not metals that could be heated using the tool which mak … es the material easier to manipulate or mold into varies of shapes.
11 Feb 2011, 9:46 AM. Injection moulding is the process of injecting plastic resins into a mould to form a wide variety of products almost anything you can imagine in fact. 
Injection Moulding (or Molding to use the US spelling), along with extrusion ranks as one of the prime processes for producing plastics articles. It is a fast process and is used to produce large numbers of identical items from high precision engineering components to disposable consumer goods. Contents. 1. 
Injection molding is a manufacturing process for  producing parts by injecting material into a mold. In injection  molding process,both injection mould and inejection machin … e will be  used. Injection molding is for producing plastic products, such as  chairs, tables, pipe fittings, etc. Injection molding plastic is a tool used to mold hard material through thermal heat, for example steel or aluminum are not metals that could be heated using the tool which mak … es the material easier to manipulate or mold into varies of shapes.
Injection moulding (injection molding in the USA) is a manufacturing process for producing parts by injecting material into a mould. Injection moulding can be performed with a host of materials, including metals, glasses, elastomers, confections, and most commonly thermoplastic and thermosetting polymers. In the field of injection moulding, troubleshooting is often performed by examining defective parts for specific defects and addressing these defects with the design of the mould or the characteristics of the process itself.