An inverse agonist is an agent that binds to the same receptor binding-site as an agonist for that receptor and inhibits the constitutive activity of the receptor. Inverse agonists exert the opposite pharmacological effect of a receptor agonist, not merely an absence of the agonist effect as seen with antagonist. An example is the cannabinoid inverse agonist rimonabant. A co-agonist works with other co-agonists to produce the desired effect together. Full agonists bind (have affinity for) and activate a receptor, producing full efficacy at that receptor. One example of a drug that acts as a full agonist is isoproterenol, which mimics the action of adrenaline at β adrenoreceptors.
Binds to the same receptor site and is an agent or drug, it becomes another agent but produces an opposite effect. Example drug x binds to receptor site A and potentiates the release of a neurotransmitter, drug X is an agonist at that receptor site. 
A prerequisite for an inverse agonist response is that the receptor must have a constitutive (also known as intrinsic or basal) level activity in the absence of any ligand. An agonist increases the activity of a receptor above its basal level, whereas an inverse agonist decreases the activity below the basal level. A neutral antagonist has no activity in the absence of an agonist or inverse agonist but can block the activity of either. The efficacy.
An inverse agonist vs antagonist. An antagonist reduces the effect of an agonist by preventing it from binding to receptors. Both antagonists and inverse agonists reduce the activity if a receptor and, in the presence of an agonist, reduce its activity.
Receptor agonists, antagonists and inverse agonists bind to the same receptor types. The pharmacological effect of an inverse agonist is measured as the negative value of the agonist primarily due to the historical findings of the already known agonist. In pharmacology, an inverse agonist is an agent which binds to the same receptor binding-site as an agonist for that receptor but exerts the opposite pharmacological effect.
Receptor agonists, antagonists and inverse agonists bind to the same receptor types. The pharmacological effect of an inverse agonist is measured as the negative value of the agonist primarily due to the historical findings of the already known agonist. Diagram showing effect of inverse agonist. In pharmacology, an inverse agonist is an agent which binds to the same receptor binding-site as an agonist for that receptor but exerts the opposite pharmacological effect.
Dose response curves of a full agonist, partial agonist, neutral antagonist, and inverse agonist. In the field of pharmacology, an inverse agonist is an agent that binds to the same receptor as an agonist but induces a pharmacological response opposite to that agonist. An agonist increases the activity of a receptor above its basal level, whereas an inverse agonist decreases the activity below the basal level. A neutral antagonist has no activity in the absence of an agonist or inverse agonist but can block the activity of either. The efficacy.
Definition. An inverse agonist is a molecule that binds to the same site as an agonist and is considered to be a full agonist. However, it elicits the opposite effect to that of a normal agonist, i.e.: demonstrates negative efficacy. An antagonist reduces the effect of an agonist by preventing it from binding to receptors. Both antagonists and inverse agonists reduce the activity if a receptor and, in the presence of an agonist, reduce its activity.