Clue: Table salt, chemically. Table salt, chemically is a crossword puzzle clue that we have spotted 6 times. There are related clues (shown below). 
One of the main sources of table salt is the mineral halite or rock salt. Halite is mined. The minerals in mined salt give it a chemical composition and flavor unique to its origin. Rock salt commonly is purified, since halite occurs with other minerals, including some that are considered toxic. Natural salt already contains a variety of chemicals. When it is processed into table salt, it may also contain additives. One of the most common additives is iodine in the form of potassium iodide, sodium iodide, or sodium iodate. Iodized salt may contain dextrose (a sugar) to stabilize the iodine.
Common salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl), a chemical compound belonging to the larger class of salts; salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. The manufacture of salt is one of the oldest chemical industries. A major source of salt is seawater, which has a salinity of approximately 3.5%. This means that there are about 35 grams (1.2 oz) of dissolved salts, predominantly sodium (Na+) and chloride (Cl−) ions, per kilogram (2.2 lbs) of water.
Chemical formula for salt. Salt is an ionic compound formed by the action of an acid on a substance. There are many different types of salts. The most common salt is sodium chloride, NaCl or table salt, and is made up of the elements sodium and chlorine. 
The word salt is a general chemical term that refers to ionic compounds formed when an acid reacts with a base. They may be simple salts such as. A large pile of salt at an Uppington, South Africa, salt mine. NaCl, KCl, and Na 2 SO 4; acid salts like NaHCO 3 and NaH 2 PO 4; or double salts like KAl(SO 4) 2. Sodium chloride occurs naturally as the mineral halite, commonly called rock salt, in large underground deposits on every continent. Seawater contains about 3.5 percent dissolved minerals, of which 2.8 percent is sodium chloride and the other 0.7 percent is primarily calcium, magnesium, and sulfate ions.
The most familiar salt is sodium chloride, the principal component of common table salt. Sodium chloride, NaCl, and water, H 2 O, are formed by neutralization of sodium hydroxide, NaOH, a base, with hydrogen chloride, HCl, an acid: HCl+NaOH→NaCl+H. A salt that has neither hydrogen (H) nor hydroxyl (OH) in its formula, e.g., sodium chloride (NaCl), is called a normal salt. A salt that has hydrogen in its formula, e.g., sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO 3), is called an acid salt.
The salt copper(II) sulfate as the mineral chalcanthite. In chemistry, a salt is an ionic compound that results from the neutralization reaction of an acid and a base. Salts are composed of related numbers of cations (positively charged ions) and anions (negative ions) so that the product is electrically neutral (without a net charge). 
There are meathods of chemically producing salt. Several processes produce salt as a biproduct, but rock salt and brine salt are the common meathods of producing salt. Brind salt starts with sea water. Brine is first treated chemically to remove calcium and magnesium compounds. It then fills the bottom of the cylinders. The brine in the first cylinder passes through tubes heated by steam. The brine boils and its steam enters the next cylinder, where it heats the brine there
Table salt is sodium chloride, a chemical compound with the formula NaCl. Sodium chloride has been used to flavor and preserve food for thousands of years. As a result, salt became an essential part of commercial transactions and was often used as money or barter. Sodium chloride occurs naturally as the mineral halite, commonly called rock salt, in large underground deposits on every continent. Seawater contains about 3.5 percent dissolved minerals, of which 2.8 percent is sodium chloride and the other 0.7 percent is primarily calcium, magnesium, and sulfate ions.