Flumazenil, a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, which is used for benzodiazepine overdose, can also reverse zolpidem's sedative/hypnotic and memory-impairing effects. Zolpidem has slight muscle relaxant and anticonvulsant properties, but has not been approved for use in muscle relaxation or seizure prevention. Zolpidem, along with the other benzodiazepine-like Z-drugs is a Schedule IV controlled substance in the U.S., according to the Controlled Substances Act, given its potential for abuse and dependence.
Zolpidem is available from several generic manufacturers in the UK, as a generic from Sandoz in South Africa and TEVA in Israel, as well as from other manufacturers such as Ratiopharm and Takeda GmbH (both Germany). Zolpidem, along with the other benzodiazepine-like Z-drugs is a Schedule IV controlled substance in the U.S., according to the Controlled Substances Act, given its potential for abuse and dependence.
The below tables contain a sample list of benzodiazepines and benzodiazepine analogs that are commonly prescribed, with their basic pharmacological characteristics such as half-life and equivalent doses to other benzodiazepines also listed, along with their trade names and primary uses. The changes are most notable with long acting benzodiazepines as these are prone to significant accumulation in such individuals. For example, the equivalent dose of diazepam in an elderly individual on lorazepam may be half of what would be expected in a younger individual.
Long-acting benzodiazepines with long-acting active metabolites such as diazepam and chlordiazepoxide are often prescribed for benzodiazepine or alcohol withdrawal as well as for anxiety if constant dose levels are required throughout the day. The changes are most notable with long acting benzodiazepines as these are prone to significant accumulation in such individuals. For example, the equivalent dose of diazepam in an elderly individual on lorazepam may be half of what would be expected in a younger individual.
Zolpidem (brand names Ambien, Ambien CR, Intermezzo, Stilnox, Stilnoct, Sublinox, Hypnogen, Lunata, Zonadin, Sanval, Zolsana and Zolfresh) is a prescription medication used for the treatment of insomnia and some brain disorders. Zolpidem, along with the other benzodiazepine-like Z-drugs is a Schedule IV controlled substance in the U.S., according to the Controlled Substances Act, given its potential for abuse and dependence.
Many things can affect the dose of medication that a person needs, such as body weight, other medical conditions, and other medications. If your doctor has recommended a dose different from the ones listed here, do not change the way that you are taking the medication without consulting your doctor. Zolpidem belongs to the class of medications called sedative-hypnotics. It is used for the short-term and symptomatic relief of sleep disturbances. Zolpidem can help with difficulty falling asleep, frequent wake-ups during the night, or early morning awakenings.
Many things can affect the dose of medication that a person needs, such as body weight, other medical conditions, and other medications. If your doctor has recommended a dose different from the ones listed here, do not change the way that you are taking the medication without consulting your doctor. It also takes longer for women for the medication to be cleared from the body. The recommended adult dose of zolpidem is 5 mg for women and 5 mg to 10 mg for men. This medication should be taken just before bedtime when required to help with sleep disturbances.
Abstract. Zolpidem is a non-benzodiazepine hypnotic used in the short-term treatment of insomnia. A sublingual orally disintegrating tablet formulation of zolpidem (Edluar™; Sublinox™) has been developed to provide a more rapid onset of action than oral immediate-release zolpidem. Sublingual zolpidem was generally well tolerated in this trial, with most adverse events being of mild or moderate severity. The overall tolerability profile of sublingual zolpidem was similar to that of oral zolpidem.
In fact, it has been described as the world s most popular sleeping pill. It is a non-benzo (ie. not like lorazepam, valium, etc.) hypnotic that is most similar in the way it works to the drug zopiclone (Imovane). In the brain, zolpidem encourages the neurotransmitter GABA to basically turn off the electrical activity of nearby brain cells. Sublinox will be scheduled in Canada as a controlled drug, like the benzos (and unlike Imovane), meaning there will be certain restrictions on refills, transfers and identification requirements. The standard dose is a 10 milligram (mg) tablet that will disintegrate in the mouth.
It is fairly important to note that elimination half-life of diazepam and chlordiazepoxide as well as other long half-life benzodiazepines is twice as long in the elderly compared to younger individuals. Individuals with an impaired liver also metabolize benzodiazepines more slowly. The changes are most notable with long acting benzodiazepines as these are prone to significant accumulation in such individuals. For example, the equivalent dose of diazepam in an elderly individual on lorazepam may be half of what would be expected in a younger individual.