An artificial joint, however, only lasts a limited amount of time. Outcomes for most people with osteoarthritis are good. OA is the most common form of arthritis with disease of the knee and hip affecting about 3.8% of people as of 2010. Among those over 60 years old about 10% of males and 18% of females are affected. It is the cause of about 2% of years lived with disability. Osteoarthritis most often occurs in the hands (at the ends of the fingers and thumbs), neck, lower back, knees, and hips. The main symptom is pain, causing loss of ability and often stiffness. Pain is generally described as a sharp ache or a burning sensation in the associated muscles and tendons.
Arthrosis used terms deformans, Osteoarthritis (English. for Arthrose).Here is referred to the differences in the English and German linguistic usage: The Arthritis in the German literature is a primarily inflammatory happening, with which the destructive abrasion procedures arise only in second line. in the majority of the cases is only begun a therapy if the Arthrose already caused a clear joint change. Then it is the goal of the therapy of receiving despite the joint wear a sufficient mobility and maximum stress of the joint.
Arthrosis is another name for osteoarthritis (OA). OA is the most common type of arthritis, according to the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases. Arthrosis is caused by normal wear and tear on your joints and cartilage. Cartilage is the slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones and helps joints move smoothly. Eventually, the cartilage may disappear completely, and your joint may have bone-to-bone contact. Arthrosis is most common in the joints of your hands, neck, knees, and hips
Arthrosis: An arthrosis is a joint, an area where two bones are attached for the purpose of motion of body parts. An arthrosis (joint) is usually formed of fibrous connective tissue and cartilage. Joints are grouped according to their motion: a ball and socket joint; a hinge joint; a condyloid joint (a joint that permits all forms of angular movement except axial rotation); a pivot joint; gliding joint; and a saddle joint. 1 -- occurs only between long bones, increasing or decreasing the angle between the bones; -- 2  occurs in joints composed of the head of a bone and an articular cavity, the long bone describing a series of circles, the whole forming a cone; and. -- 3  a bone moves about a central axis without moving from this axis.
Arthritis is an inflammatory condition affecting joints whereas arthrosis is a degenerative condition where the cartilage of the joints are affected by wear and tear. Arthritis is a term often used to describe a group of more than 100 rhumatic conditions. 
Arthrosis is another term for osteoarthritis, a non-inflammatory disease of the joint in which the cartilage in the joint breaks down. This degenerative disease occurs as a result of injury, aging, and long-term wear and tear of cartilage in the joints. It causes pain and stiffness. Arthritis is an inflammation of joints. It is often accompanied by pain, swelling, stiffness, and warmth in the affected joint. Arthritis can be caused by a number of things, including injury, infection, metabolic disorders, an overactive immune system, and weight issues.
Arthritis and arthrosis sound very similar, and the two conditions have several things in common. They both affect your bones, ligaments, and joints. They also share many of the same symptoms, including joint stiffness and pain. However, the difference between the two is important. OA is the most common type of arthritis, according to the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases. Arthrosis is caused by normal wear and tear on your joints and cartilage. Cartilage is the slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones and helps joints move smoothly.
An arthrosis is a medical term for a joint where two bones are attached to a common point and allow movement. There are a number of different types of joints in the body including ball and socket joints, pivot joints and hinge joints. ... more ». 
Osteoarthritis (OA) also known as degenerative arthritis, degenerative joint disease, or osteoarthrosis, is a type of joint disease that results from breakdown of joint cartilage and underlying bone. The most common symptoms are joint pain and stiffness. Osteoarthritis most often occurs in the hands (at the ends of the fingers and thumbs), neck, lower back, knees, and hips. The main symptom is pain, causing loss of ability and often stiffness. Pain is generally described as a sharp ache or a burning sensation in the associated muscles and tendons.