You won't believe these 10 facts about people. A professional association is also called a business organization or a standards society. It's a group of and for people who work in the same profession. All types of industries have professional associations, including retailers, fundraisers, publishers, biologists and legal assistants. Professional associations may be national or international in scope. Being a member of a reputable professional organization in one's field is typically considered wise. It places a person in the same group as other respected professionals in his or her industry and aligns him or her with a leadership authority.
10. a person admitted to a subordinate degree of membership in an association or institution. 11. connected, joined, or related, esp. as a companion or colleague; having equal or nearly equal responsibility. 12. having subordinate status; without full rights and privileges: an associate member. associate-a person with subordinate membership in a society, institution, or commercial enterprise; associates in the law firm bill at a lower rate than do partners. subordinate, subsidiary, underling, foot soldier-an assistant subject to the authority or control of another.
The future of association membership models is a question of both business philosophy and language. We pack a lot of meaning into one little word. Like any profession, association management has a common language. Member could mean someone who joins for free or someone who joins for $10,000. That’s a big difference in possible meanings for one little word. “The definition of membership is in flux, yet two divergent philosophies are emerging.
(July 2015). A professional association (also called a professional body, professional organization, or professional society) is usually a nonprofit organization seeking to further a particular profession, the interests of individuals engaged in that profession and the public interest. In the United States, PA (Professional Association), used in conjunction with a business name is a corporation formed by professionals such as barristers, engineers, dentists, and medical doctors.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. When a group is called a membership association, it means that they have to pay to be a part of the group. Buying into the association means that there are certain privileges
The answer is simple. A Mason (or Freemason) is a member of a fraternity known as Masonry (or Freemasonry). A fraternity is a group of men (just as a sorority is a group of women) who join together because: 1  There are things they want to do in the world. 2  There are things they want to do inside their own minds.. 3  They enjoy being together with men they like and respect. 
Cooperative. An association or corporation established for the purpose of providing services on a nonprofit basis to its shareholders or members who own and control it. The nature and functions of cooperatives differ considerably—such as purchasing cooperatives, consumer cooperatives, and marketing cooperatives. The term cooperative also signifies the ownership of an apartment building by a nonprofit corporation that holds title to it and the property upon which it is situated. Stock in the corporation is allotted among the apartment units on the basis of their relative value or size.