The consensus in the profession at this point, early in the 21st century, is that the Renaissance has some validity as a period of art, and probably some validity in literary history, but that as a general term, it has too many problems to be useful. Other Developments in the 19th Century. It was the historians of art who first identified the Renaissance as a distinct historical period. Praising or condemning it, various writers saw in their own day a decline and recongized the Renaissance as a distinct phase that had ended sometime in the 16thc.
Which Christian figure became the center of a rapidly expanding cult in the twelfth century and the namesake of the cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris as well as other places. The increasing persecution of European Jews in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries should be interpreted in the context of: general Christian concerns about heresy and the growing suspicion of Jews at all levels of society.
The Twelfth Century Renaissance was an internationalist movement. One characteristic of this was the wandering scholars who traveled from country to country. They developed their own genre of poetry-Carmina Burana-Latin songs celebrating academic and also more earthly pleasures. Chr tien de Troyes (ob. c. 1185), the author of Arthurian Romances, argued that contemporary French culture was as fine as that of ancient Greece and Rome.  Il fonce sur lui, croyant le prendre au d pourvu, Mais Lancelot sut se prot ger; Avec son p e tranchante.
The term Renaissance has also been used to define periods outside of the 15th and 16th centuries. Charles H. Haskins (1870–1937), for example, made a case for a Renaissance of the 12th century. It represents a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Italy.
7 Stephen Jaeger, “Pessimism in the Twelfth Century Renaissance”, Speculum, Vol. 78, No.4, 2003, pp. 1151-83. 8 Charles Homer Haskins, The Renaissance of Twelfth Century, p. 4. 5 6 9 Ibid., p. 11-12. 29 Alex Novikoff, “The Renaissance of the Twelfth Century Before Haskins”. 26 27 Marcia L. Colish, “Haskins’s Renaissance Seventy Years Later: Anti-Bruckhardtianism”, The Haskins Society Journal, Vol.11
Geoffrey of Monmouth (c. 1100-55) set the tone for much twelfth-century literature in his romances about the intrepid knights at Court of King Arthur. Chr tien de Troyes (ob. c. 1185), the author of Arthurian Romances, argued that contemporary French culture was as fine as that of ancient Greece and Rome.  Il fonce sur lui, croyant le prendre au d pourvu, Mais Lancelot sut se prot ger; Avec son p e tranchante.
For Michelet, the Renaissance was more a development in science than in art and culture. He asserted that it spanned the period from Columbus to Copernicus to Galileo; that is, from the end of the 15th century to the middle of the 17th century. It represents a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Italy.
Answers. Best Answer: D. blending of secular and religious ideas that minimized the importance of christian ideas in society The Renaissance of the 12th century was a period of many changes at the outset of the High Middle Ages. a. revival of classical texts creatively adapted to the unique christian culture of the high middle ages b. cultural achievements based fundamentally on advances in medieval science/church architecture c. movement known for significant advances in paintings and sculpture especially in northern italy d. blending...
It began as an era defined by an Italian writer in the 16th century, who applied it only to Italian painters and sculptors. Other arts were added to the mix, and other countries, but only in the 19th century with Jakob Burckhardt did the Renaissance become a historical era. Other eras are essentially chronological. Other Developments in the 19th Century. It was the historians of art who first identified the Renaissance as a distinct historical period. Praising or condemning it, various writers saw in their own day a decline and recongized the Renaissance as a distinct phase that had ended sometime in the 16thc.
The Renaissance (UK /rɨˈneɪsəns/ , US /ˈrɛnɨsɑːns/) is a period in Europe, from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history. It represents a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Italy.