Report Abuse. Refrigerator (4°C or 40°F) Whole chicken (2-3 days) Chicken pieces (2-3 days) Cooked chicken (3-4 days) Ground chicken (1-2 days) You could also freeze it for up to 3 months. Source(s): www.chicken.ca see the page on Storage and Thawing Guidelines: http://www.chicken.ca/DefaultSite/index_... Marty B · 7 years ago.
Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave. If using one of the last two quick-thaw methods, cook the chicken immediately. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
The amount of time you can leave food in the fridge depends on the food -- and the food's expiration date. Some foods can be left in the fridge a long time and still be safe to eat. Guidelines exist to help determine when you should keep food or throw it out to keep your risk for foodborne illness low. Leftovers. For dairy foods like milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, cheeses and butter, use the expiration date to determine how long they can safely be kept in your fridge. Many dairy products like milk safely last about two to three weeks. Cheeses and soy milk may last a few months.
(Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4
GRAVY & BROTH: Cooked gravy and broth will stay fresh and safe to eat for 1-2 days in your refrigerator. Freeze it into ice cube trays and you’ll have a handy burst of flavor to add to your next meal. PASTA: Cooked pasta keeps for 3-5 days in the refrigerator, although pasta in soups will swell after the first day. 
If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
The USDA notes that if the product comes with a sell by date, you can generally keep raw meat and eggs in the fridge past that date by using the following guidelines: 1  Chicken, turkey, sausage, ground poultry, and ground meat: 1 to 2 days past sell-by date. 2  Beef, lamb, pork, and veal: 3 to 5 days past sell-by date. For dairy foods like milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, cheeses and butter, use the expiration date to determine how long they can safely be kept in your fridge. Many dairy products like milk safely last about two to three weeks. Cheeses and soy milk may last a few months.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.