WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms joint pain, muscle stiffness (rigidity), muscle weakness and night sweats including Lack of exercise, Exercise or physical activity, and Hypocalcemia. There are 47 conditions associated with joint pain, muscle stiffness (rigidity), muscle weakness and night sweats.
Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. It's more often the result of an infection, an illness or a side effect of a medication. Common causes of muscle pain include: 1  Chronic exertional compartment syndrome. 2  Chronic fatigue syndrome. 3  Claudication. 4  Delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS). 5  Dermatomyositis. 6  Dystonia. 7  Fibromyalgia. 8  Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid).
Joint pain or muscle pain. Find possible causes of joint pain or muscle pain based on specific factors. Check one or more factors on this page that apply to your symptom. 1  Bone pain. 2  Dull or achy pain. 3  Joint pain. 4  Muscles aches, cramps or pain. 5  Around the kneecap. 6  In a specific area. 7  In various sites as it moves
Muscle stiffness is caused when the muscles in a certain area of the body contract and become tense. Stiff muscles can happen from a variety of situations. These situations can range from having periods of inactivity to exercising, physical labor or playing sports. The joints in a person's body may experience stiffness from an injury or a strain. Stiffness in the joints can also begin as a person ages. Tendinitis, muscle spasms and arthritis cause pain and stiffness in the joints as well.
Possible Underlying Causes of Muscle Stiffness. There are many things that can cause stiff muscles. Usually, if it’s something more than overuse or stiffness from lack of use, there will be other accompanying symptoms. Your doctor will use these symptoms to help determine what’s causing your stiff muscles. Treating Stiff Muscles. If the cause is known and deemed to be minor, such as muscle stiffness from exercise, then rest, massage, and cold or heat packs may be helpful. Stretching and toning muscles are important for keeping muscles flexible and preventing stiffness.
Muscle stiffness (rigidity). WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common symptom combinations and medical conditions related to muscle stiffness (rigidity). Click on the combination that matches your symptoms to find the conditions that may cause these problems. 
Causes of Similar Symptoms to Muscle stiffness. Research the causes of these symptoms that are similar to, or related to, the symptom Muscle stiffness: 1  Muscle spasms (929 causes). 2  Muscle pain (956 causes). 3  Muscle tone symptoms. 4  3q deletion. 5  Abdominal muscle strain. 6  Adrenal adenoma (16 causes). 7  Familial. 8  Adrenal Cancer. 
Muscle stiffness is a condition in which muscles feel tight and contracted rather than the usual supple state of muscles at rest. It’s also called stiff muscles, rigidity, and in severe cases, spasticity. Muscle stiffness is a feeling of tension and contraction in the muscles. In other words, your muscles feel like they are always flexed. This stiffness may limit your normal range of motion. Treating Stiff Muscles. If the cause is known and deemed to be minor, such as muscle stiffness from exercise, then rest, massage, and cold or heat packs may be helpful. Stretching and toning muscles are important for keeping muscles flexible and preventing stiffness.