A grenadier (from French, derived from the word grenade) was originally a specialized soldier, first established as a distinct role in the mid-to-late 17th century, for the throwing of grenades and sometimes assault operations. At that time grenadiers were chosen from the strongest and largest soldiers. By the 18th century, dedicated grenade throwing of this sort was no longer relevant, but grenadiers were still chosen for being the most physically powerful soldiers and would lead assaults in the field of battle. With the standardisation of training and tactics, the need for separate grenadier companies at regimental level had passed by the mid-19th century and the British, French and Austrian armies phased out these sub-units between 1850 and 1862.
Certain countries such as France (Grenadiers a à cheval de La Garde) imperiale Impériale (And argentina Regiment Of) mounted grenadiers established Units Of horse grenadiers and for a Time The british Army Had Horse. grenadier guards With the standardisation of training and tactics, the need for separate grenadier companies at regimental level had passed by the mid-19th century and the British, French and Austrian armies phased out these sub-units between 1850 and 1862.
The Grenadier Guards (GREN GDS) is an infantry regiment of the British Army. It is the most senior regiment of the Guards Division and, as such, is the most senior regiment of infantry. It is not, however, the most senior regiment of the Army, this position being attributed to The Life Guards. Modern Grenadier Guardsmen wear a cap badge of a  grenade fired proper with seventeen flames. This cap badge has to be cleaned twice a day – once in the morning, and once in the afternoon. A tarnished grenade is severely frowned upon.
gren·a·dier. n. 1. a. A member of the British Grenadier Guards, the first regiment of the royal household infantry. b. A soldier who is a member of a special corps or regiment. c. A soldier equipped with grenades. 2. Any of various deep-sea fishes of the family Macrouridae, having a long tapering tail and lacking a tail fin. 1. a member of the first regiment of royal household infantry (Gren′adier Guards′) in the British Army. 2. a foot soldier in certain former elite units, specially selected for strength and courage. 3. (formerly) a soldier who threw grenades.
A grenadier (from French, derived from the word grenade) was originally a specialized soldier, first established as a distinct role in the mid-to-late 17th century, for the throwing of grenades and sometimes assault operations. At that time grenadiers were chosen from the strongest and largest soldiers. Certain countries such as France (Grenadiers a à cheval de La Garde) imperiale Impériale (And argentina Regiment Of) mounted grenadiers established Units Of horse grenadiers and for a Time The british Army Had Horse. grenadier guards
gren·a·dier. n. 1. a. A member of the British Grenadier Guards, the first regiment of the royal household infantry. b. A soldier who is a member of a special corps or regiment. c. A soldier equipped with grenades. 2. 
Grenadier (Japanese: グレネーダー, Hepburn: Gurenēdā) is a manga series written and illustrated by Sōsuke Kaise, published in Kadokawa Shoten 's Shōnen Ace in 2003. The manga was licensed in Taiwan by Ever Glory Publishing. 
1.1 (Grenadiers or Grenadier Guards) (In the UK) the first regiment of the royal household infantry. Example sentences. 1  He volunteered for the Royal Army Medical Corps in 1938 and was seconded to the Grenadier Guards, seeing action at Dunkirk and D Day. 
Definition of GRENADIER. 1. a: a soldier who carries and throws grenades b: a member of a special regiment or corps formerly armed with grenades. 2. : any of various deep-sea fishes (family Macrouridae) that are related to the cods and have an elongate tapering body and compressed pointed tail. See grenadier defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT