The example of hinterland services to and from the port of Le Havre shows that the competitiveness of combined transport in terms of price varies greatly according to the way road transport it competes with is organized. In order to promote combined transport it is necessary to offer additional services that road transport does not provide. The development of combined waterway-road transport on the Seine reveals two stimuli which assist water-borne transport.
Hinterland is a German word meaning the land behind (a city, a port, or similar). The term was first used in English in 1888 by George Chisholm in his work Handbook of Commercial Geography. In shipping usage, a port's hinterland is the area that it serves, both for imports and for exports. In colonial usage, the term was applied to the surrounding areas of former European colonies in Africa, which, although not part of the colony itself, were influenced by the colony.
Transshipment or transhipment is the shipment of goods or containers to an intermediate destination, then to yet another destination. One possible reason for transshipment is to change the means of transport during the journey (e.g., from ship transport to road transport), known as transloading.
Thirdly, a theoretical framework for green port dues for hinterland transport is presented. Finally, the impact of the normative framework is discussed from the perspective of the affected actors, i.e. the society, the port, the transport service providers, and the shippers. This paper examines one such strategy – green port dues – and shows how the integration of hinterland logistics and ports opens the possibility for differentiated port dues to be used as a tool to internalise external cost in the transportation systems and ensure the effectiveness of hinterland transport.
Specifically, by the doctrine of the hinterland, the word is applied to the inland region lying behind a port, claimed by the state that owns the coast. The area from which products are delivered to a port for shipping elsewhere is that port's hinterland. The term is also used to refer to the area around a city or town. In shipping usage, a port's hinterland is the area that it serves, both for imports and for exports. In colonial usage, the term was applied to the surrounding areas of former European colonies in Africa, which, although not part of the colony itself, were influenced by the colony.
3. By introducing a differentiated port dues system for hinterland transport, transport service providers will enjoy higher efficiency and better utilisation of resources as a result of a more efficient modal shift distribution for that specific port and its related hinterland. This paper examines one such strategy – green port dues – and shows how the integration of hinterland logistics and ports opens the possibility for differentiated port dues to be used as a tool to internalise external cost in the transportation systems and ensure the effectiveness of hinterland transport.
However, combined transport must still demonstrate that it can compete with road transport. The combined transport is an intermodal transport where the major part of the European journey is by rail, inland waterways or sea and any initial and/or final legs carried out by road or as short as possible 1 (ECE, 2001). In order to promote combined transport it is necessary to offer additional services that road transport does not provide. The development of combined waterway-road transport on the Seine reveals two stimuli which assist water-borne
The fundamental idea of a port dues system related to hinterland transport is to construct a port dues scheme based on direct cost recovery (i.e. IMO, 2000, chap. 11) that has the ability to facilitate the allocation of load units. This paper examines one such strategy – green port dues – and shows how the integration of hinterland logistics and ports opens the possibility for differentiated port dues to be used as a tool to internalise external cost in the transportation systems and ensure the effectiveness of hinterland transport.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The hinterland is the land or district behind that bordering on a coast or river. Specifically, by the doctrine of the hinterland, the word is applied to the inland region lying behind a port, claimed by the state that owns the coast. The area from which products are delivered to a port for shipping elsewhere is that port's hinterland. Contrast foreland, the places to which a port ships. The word has been borrowed from German, where it literally means the land behind (a city, a port or similar).