1. interaction, action. usage: a mutual or reciprocal action; interacting. 2. interaction, fundamental interaction, physical phenomenon. usage: (physics) the transfer of energy between elementary particles or between an elementary particle and a field or between fields; mediated by gauge bosons. 
This is the British English definition of interaction. View American English definition of interaction. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for interaction. 1. interaction with : I enjoy the constant interaction with people from other departments. interaction between : the interaction between mother and baby. social interaction : Jobs that involve a degree of social interaction are usually more satisfying.
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. 1. interaction with : I enjoy the constant interaction with people from other departments. interaction between : the interaction between mother and baby. social interaction : Jobs that involve a degree of social interaction are usually more satisfying.
A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of interaction from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 1. interaction with : I enjoy the constant interaction with people from other departments. interaction between : the interaction between mother and baby. social interaction : Jobs that involve a degree of social interaction are usually more satisfying.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate these synonyms: interaction (noun). a mutual or reciprocal action; interacting. Synonyms: fundamental interaction. interaction, fundamental interaction (noun). 
2. interaction (n.). (physics) the transfer of energy between elementary particles or between an elementary particle and a field or between fields; mediated by gauge bosons. 1  strong interaction, 2  strong force, 3  fundamental interaction, 4  gravitational interaction, 5  electromagnetic interaction, 6  color force, 7  weak force, 8  weak interaction,
interaction. n. 1. a mutual or reciprocal action or influence. 2. (General Physics) physics the transfer of energy between elementary particles, between a particle and a field, or between fields. interaction - (physics) the transfer of energy between elementary particles or between an elementary particle and a field or between fields; mediated by gauge bosons. fundamental interaction. natural philosophy, physics-the science of matter and energy and their interactions; his favorite subject was physics.