Research Combustion. Combustion is the process by which a liquid or gaseous fuel is oxidized (burned), creating carbon dioxide (in the case of hydrocarbons), water, other chemicals, and heat. Combustion of fossil fuels is currently the chief source of energy for humanity. 
1 Decay-When plants and animals die they decay. 2  When this happens, the carbon in their body will either be released into the atmosphere or stored in ground as fossil fuels. 3  Combustion (burning) - When plants, trees, or fossil fuels are burned, carbon is released into the atmosphere. 4  Desert. 
The carbon that was in their bodies is then returned to the atmosphere as carbon dioxide. In some circumstances the process of decomposition is prevented. The decomposed plants and animals may then be available as fossil fuel in the future for combustion. 
Combustion, or burning, of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in industry, transport and the generation of electricity, releases extra carbon dioxide (CO2). CO2 is a greenhouse gas that is causing global warming, and this extra amount is too much for the carbon cycle to deal with. Photosynthesis is the process in which carbon dioxide is converted to glucose, so carbon is stored.   Respiration is the process in which carbohydrates are converted to wa … ter and carbon dioxide, so that carbon is released again into the air.
The role that plants play in the carbon cycle is to absorb carbon  dioxide and release oxygen as part of the process of  photosynthesis. Humans on the other hand, absorb oxy … gen and release  carbon dioxide through the process of respiration. Answered. In Arthropods. Combustion, or burning, of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in industry, transport and the generation of electricity, releases extra carbon dioxide (CO2). CO2 is a gre … enhouse gas that is causing global warming, and this extra amount is too much for the carbon cycle to deal with. 5 people found this useful.
The carbon cycle is a natural process whereby carbon moves in and out of the atmosphere, from the soil, oceans, animals and vegetation. It supports the greenhouse effect, wher … e greenhouse gases have kept the earth comfortably warm since life began. Photosynthesis is the process in which carbon dioxide is converted to glucose, so carbon is stored.   Respiration is the process in which carbohydrates are converted to wa … ter and carbon dioxide, so that carbon is released again into the air.
Carbon dioxide is a by-product of respiration ] and combustion combustion: Combustion is the process of burning by fire. . Green plants remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere by photosynthesis. Living organisms-including all plants and animals-release energy from their food using respiration. Respiration and combustion-burning-both release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. These processes form a carbon cycle in which the proportion of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere remains about the same. The animation should help you to understand how the cycle work
The carbon cycle is the biogeochemical cycle by which carbon is exchanged among the biosphere, pedosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere of the Earth. Along with the nitrogen cycle and the water cycle, the carbon cycle comprises a sequence of events that are key to making the Earth capable of sustaining life; it describes the movement of carbon as it is recycled and reused throughout the biosphere.
Animals give off carbon dioxide into the atmosphere during respiration. Carbon dioxide is also given off when plants and animals die. This occurs when decomposers (bacteria and fungi) break down dead plants and animals (decomposition) and release the carbon compounds stored in them. Let's see how this cycle works using the simple sketch below: Human activities like heating homes and cars burning fuels (combustion) give off carbon into the atmosphere. During respiration, animals also introduce carbon into the atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide. The Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is absorbed by green plants (producers) to make food in photosynthesis