Q: What is the difference between CAPS and TCCA? A: Childcare and Parent Services (CAPS) is the existing child care assistance program that is managed by DFCS which assists parents who are primarily working by providing funds to cover the cost of childcare. A: Temporary Child Care Assistance is a new program designed to provide time-limited childcare assistance using President Obama’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funding.
With strong microbial activity, tcca wil be converted into hypochlorous acid (hocl), through hydrolysis in water. The cyanuric acid, hydrolysis by-product, stops change of hypochlorous acid into hypochlorite ion (ocl-) and acts as a stabilizer due to sunshine and heat that has low microbial activity. Specification. The TCCA 90 tablets acts as a disinfecting agent in swimming pools and cleans the water and water bodies. Providing long-lasting effect, the chemical keeps your pool free form the bacteria and algae.
It is used as an industrial disinfectant, bleaching agent and a reagent in organic synthesis. This white crystalline powder, which has a strong  chlorine odour, is sometimes sold in tablet or granule form for domestic and industrial use. The compound is a disinfectant, algicide and bactericide mainly for swimming pools and dyestuffs, and is also used as a bleaching agent in the textile industry.
Charles Curtiss-Executive Director-Tennessee County Commissioners Association. The TCCA website is designed to provide quick and useful information to the County Commissioners in Tennessee. If you are a County Commissioner, please let us know how we can improve this site to better serve your needs. I look forward for the next year, serving as your president. The purpose of this website is the same as that of our association-promoting more efficient county government by providing information and educational resources, facilitating networking and sharing among county officials and advocating the importance of county government services.
TCCA Membership Application. TCCA Membership period is from January through December and must be renewed annually to stay in good standing with the Association. Once you complete your application you will receive an email confirmation that your application was received
Feeding our students high quality meals that are nutritious and delicious is a priority at Tri-City Christian Academy. TCCA has partnered with Mrs. Brenda Borge, a parent and alumna, who will now be administering the new TCCA Lunch Program. Mrs. Borge, TCCA Culinary Arts Instructor, has many years’ experience, and will provide your student with quality lunches. 
TCCA. TCCA is an outstanding source of chlorine for controlling of befouling in swimming pools. This chemical has been proved to be a superior and more economical substitute to sodium hypochlorite and bleaching powder for chlorination. The TCCA 90 tablets acts as a disinfecting agent in swimming pools and cleans the water and water bodies. Providing long-lasting effect, the chemical keeps your pool free form the bacteria and algae.
As a point of reference, standard 20# copy paper is approximately 0.0025” thick. TCCA buys our product from the best aluminum producers such as Alcoa, Reynolds, Kaiser, Alcan and other premium mills, but we too are subject to the industry wide workmanship quality given to us. TCCA believes in selling a quality product and with it quality service. Saving $5.00 for one set of monthly corrosion test panels could cost you thousands of dollars in lost productivity from your processing line shutting down for retests. You will never regret buying from a first class American supplier.