The School of Nutrition and Food Sciences aims for excellence with comprehensive, integrated, and 21st century education, scholarship, and outreach. Food science professionals train students in the quality, processing, and safety of foods for the multibillion dollar food industry. Our Mission. The School of Nutrition and Food Sciences fulfills the land grant mission through excellence in teaching, research, and outreach, improving the health and well-being of individuals, families, and communities in Louisiana and globally.
Professor Alan Kelly is a graduate of Dublin City University (BSc Biotechnology 1990) and UCC (PhD Food Technology 1995) and is currently a Professor in the School of Food and Nutritional Sciences at University College Cork. 
Dr Joe Kerry is a college lecturer and head of the food packaging research group in the Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences at University College Cork (UCC). He received his Doctorate in Microbiology at University College Galway. Dr. Kerry is also a qualified member of the Institute of Packaging. 
Choose UCC for Nutritional Sciences-CAO CK504. The global demand for food is expected to increase by 70 per cent by 2050 with Ireland standing to benefit enormously, having plans to grow exports in the sector by 40 per cent by 2020. Paul Kelly, Director, Food and Drink Industry Ireland.
Teagasc MFRC, UCC. Dr.W.Donnelly,Teagasc,Dairy Products Research Centre,Moorepark,Fermoy,Co.Cork. Complete. Eating quality and consumer perception of organic and conventially reared muscle foods. UCC. Dr.Colm Delahunty,Department of Food Science,Technology,and Nutrition,University College Cork,Cork. Complete. Edible films and coatings for foods. Diet the large bowel microflora and metabolomic profiling of healthy human subjects. UCC,UCD. Professor M.J.Gibney, Room 302A, UCD School of Agriculture and Food Science Centre, School of Agriculture, Food Science and Veterinary Medicine, College of Life Sciences, UCD, Belfield, Dublin 4.
Dr. Kathleen M. Rasmussen is Professor of Nutrition in the Division of Nutritional Sciences and International Professor of Nutritional Science at Cornell University. She received her AB degree from Brown University in molecular biology and both her ScM and ScD degrees from Harvard University in nutrition. Welcome to the Division of Nutritional Sciences. Welcome to the Division of Nutritional Sciences. The Division of Nutritional Sciences (DNS) at Cornell University is among the largest nutritional academic units in the United States devoted to huma
Miao, S. and Roos, Y.H.; (2003) Effects of temperature and moisture content on nonenzymatic browning kinetics in a noncrystalline carbohydrate-based low-moisture food system. [Poster Presentation], 33rd Annual Food Science and Technology Research Conference, University College Cork, Ireland, 11-SEP-03 - 12-SEP-03. Miao, S. and Roos, Y.H.; (2004) Nonenzymatic browning kinetics in low-moisture lactose, trehalose and lactose/trehalose food systems as affected by component crystallization. [Poster Presentation], 34th Annual Food Science and Technology Research Conference, University College Cork, Ireland, 16-SEP-04 - 17-SEP-04.
Students may pursue the Honors Specialization or Specialization in Foods and Nutrition. These modules are restricted to students enrolled in the Foods and Nutrition degrees at the Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences, Brescia University College, or in the Faculty of Science, The University of Western Ontario. The Bachelor of Science (Foods and Nutrition) degree (formerly BSc (Human Ecology)) provides students with professional and service-oriented preparation through an interdisciplinary approach that combines courses in Foods and Nutrition, Human Ecology, sciences, business, and social sciences.
BATON ROUGE, La – Louise Wicker, a food scientist who spent much of her career on the faculty at the University of Georgia, has been named director of the LSU AgCenter and College of Agriculture School of Nutrition and Food Sciences. Wicker started on July 1. Our Mission. The School of Nutrition and Food Sciences fulfills the land grant mission through excellence in teaching, research, and outreach, improving the health and well-being of individuals, families, and communities in Louisiana and globally.
Wicker also served as the team leader of UGA’s Food Ingredients and Obesity group under the university’s obesity initiative. Wicker was drawn to the AgCenter because the school includes both nutrition and food sciences as well as the school’s relationship with Pennington Biomedical Research Center. “Nutrition and Food Sciences is a great program. It has the right elements in place, and it is unique in the country,” Wicker said. Our Mission. The School of Nutrition and Food Sciences fulfills the land grant mission through excellence in teaching, research, and outreach, improving the health and well-being of individuals, families, and communities in Louisiana and globally.