Below in Related Links is an article entitled Home Alone Children Legal Age Limits which provides one guideline from a California agency representative who suggests that 8 year olds and over can be left at home for up to several hours (usually after school before a parent gets home from work). Typically 8 year olds and over can be left at home for up to several hours (usually after school before a parent gets home from work). 12 years old appears to be the most common recommendation. http://www.latchkey-kids.com/latchkey-kids-age-limits.htm provides a state by state comparison.
Please watch your kids. The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous. 
Most places believe that 12 or 13 is okay to leave home alone for a couple of hours during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines. Typically 8 year olds and over can be left at home for up to several hours (usually after school before a parent gets home from work). 12 years old appears to be the most common recommendation. http://www.latchkey-kids.com/latchkey-kids-age-limits.htm provides a state by state comparison.
Most authorities believe that a 12 or 13 y … ear old can be safely left alone for an hour or two during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines. Typically 8 year olds and over can be left at home for up to several hours (usually after school before a parent gets home from work). 12 years old appears to be the most common recommendation. http://www.latchkey-kids.com/latchkey-kids-age-limits.htm provides a state by state comparison.
Best Answer: There is no set age limit in California as well as some other states... You just have to use your judgement.. A parent is responsible for their children until the age of 18, so even if your child was 17 and you left him / her home alone and they caused trouble (party) or got hurt somehow.. you could be held responsible.. You know your child or children more than anyone..
LEGAL AGE There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines. Georgia, Illiniois, Maryland and Oregon are a few of the states with specific ages specified in their laws. 12 years of age appears to be the most common recommendation. Typically 8 year olds and over can be left at home for up to several hours (usually after school before a parent gets home from work). 12 years old appears to be the most common recommendation. http://www.latchkey-kids.com/latchkey-kids-age-limits.htm provides a state by state comparison.
Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone. 8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods)
Between the ages of 9 and 12, you can leave a child alone for up to two hours. Age 12 and up, no more than 12 hours at a time.. - NBC Augusta.com 12 years of age appears to be the most common recommendation. Children 14 to 17 can be left at home up to 24 hours with adequate adult back-up supervision (an adult willing to take legal responsibility preferably within 5 miles). For children that are mentally handicapped you have to go by their maturity age and not their chronological age.