How Alcohol Affects the Body. Drinking alcohol affects the body in many ways. These effects can lead to physical and mental changes that can put alcohol users and others at risk of injury or death. Possible dangers include falls, household accidents, and car crashes.
Short-term effects of alcohol on the body: Alcohol is classified as a sedative, which is a substance that has a depressant effect on the normal functioning status of the body. The more a person drinks, the stronger the depressant effect.
It affects the nerves that pass messages around the body by slowing them down and the more you drink the greater the effect. The reason people often get more lively when they've had a drink is that alcohol affects parts of the brain responsible for self-control. Your reactions also slow down, and you may become uncoordinated or unsteady on your feet.
Blood alcohol concentration is used to determine the effects of alcohol on the body. The higher the level, the more pronounced the effects. . A person with a BAC of 0.10 (10 parts alcohol to 10,000 parts blood) is considered intoxicated (in some states the level is 0.08). Even low doses of alcohol can affect bodily functions. Blood alcohol concentration measures are a useful way to detail the effects of alcohol consumption.
Long-term alcohol use can also result in high blood pressure, which increases a person’s risk of heart disease. However, blood pressure can go back to normal within a few months after drinking stops if there is not much damage to the heart. Learn more about how alcohol can affect
Because it takes time for your body to break down alcohol, drinking more than one unit of alcohol an hour will build up your blood alcohol concentration (BAC) and it may be many hours before you are safe to drive. After a night of heavy drinking you risk being over the drink drive limit the next morning.
Find out m ore about how alcohol can effect you from our interactive male and female bodies. Alcohol is absorbed into your body through the stomach and small intestines. Food slows down the rate of absorption-that's why alcohol affects you more quickly on an empty stomach.