More info Buy tickets. The Cambridge Theatre is a West End theatre which opened in 1930. The theatre is known for its particularly intricate design, and was Grade II listed in 1999. It underwent refurbishment in 1950 to completely change the style, with red decor décor and. chandeliers 
the Cambridge Theatre is a rare, complete and early example of a London theatre adopting the moderne, expressionist style pioneered in Germany during the 1920s. It marked a conscious reaction to the design excesses of the music hall and contemporary cinemas. It was designed by Wimperis, Simpson and Guthrie; interior partly by Serge Chermayeff, with interior bronze friezes by sculptor Anthony Gibbons Grinling. The theatre is built in steel and concrete and is notable for its elegant and clean lines of design.
ABOUT. One of the youngest and most attractive theatres in the West End, having opened in 1930 with interior decoration by Serge Chemayeff of Waring and Gillow. These were completely restored under the supervision of Carl Toms in 1986. Venue Hire. The Cambridge Theatre is ideal for large-scale conferences and presentations, as well as meetings, training days and receptions. The main auditorium seats over 1,200 guests, and a private suite is perfect for smaller events, both standing or seated.
The opulent Cambridge Theatre is situated on a corner site in Earlham Street in front of seven dials, located in London Borough of Camden. In the year 1929-30, this magnificent theatre has been constructed. Wimperis, Simpson and Guthrie designed this stunning theatre. Enjoy the award winning mesmerizing London musical at Cambridge London Theatre ! The feel good London musical is a complete treat for theatre lovers. . We offer safe and secure booking with seat allocation made before the payment done.
The theatre opened on 4 September1930, built by its first manager B A Meyer, to designs by architects Wimperis Simpson and Guthrie. Constructed by Gee Walker and Slater Ltd, the interior decoration was by Serge Chemayeff of Waring and Gillow. The first production was Andre André’charlot s... revue Venue Hire. The Cambridge Theatre is ideal for large-scale conferences and presentations, as well as meetings, training days and receptions. The main auditorium seats over 1,200 guests, and a private suite is perfect for smaller events, both standing or seated.
The Cambridge Theatre is owned by Andrew Lloyd Webber's Really Useful Theatres. Cambridge Theatre: Recent Productions. Grease (24 October 1996 - 11 September 1999) by Jim Jacobs and Warren Casey, starring at various times Shane Richie and Ben Richards. Great Balls of Fire (6 October 1999 - 18 December 1999). Built in 1929-30, it was designed by Wimperis, Simpson and Guthrie. Interior design of The Cambridge Theatre is partly by Serge Chermayeff, with interior bronze friezes by sculptor Anthony Gibbons Grinling.
Cambridge Theatre. Prestigious Olivier award winning hugely loved London show, Matilda the Musical is running with packed houses at the magnificent Cambridge London Theatre. Dennis Kelly penned the popular London show and is adapted from the popular children novel writing by Roald Dahl. Enjoy the award winning mesmerizing London musical at Cambridge London Theatre ! The feel good London musical is a complete treat for theatre lovers. . We offer safe and secure booking with seat allocation made before the payment done.
The Cambridge Theatre: History. The Cambridge Theatre West End occupies a corner site in Earlham Street facing Seven Dials, in the London Borough of Camden. Built in 1929-30, it was designed by Wimperis, Simpson and Guthrie. Interior design of The Cambridge Theatre is partly by Serge Chermayeff, with interior bronze friezes by sculptor Anthony Gibbons Grinling.
Productions at the Cambridge Theatre have been characterised by relatively short runs interspersed with several dark periods and the theatre was used for trade film shows in the late 1930s and again in 1969 as a cinema. It was designed by Wimperis, Simpson and Guthrie; interior partly by Serge Chermayeff, with interior bronze friezes by sculptor Anthony Gibbons Grinling. The theatre is built in steel and concrete and is notable for its elegant and clean lines of design.