Tweet. Blake Mycoskie is a social entrepreneur who founded TOMS Shoes, the company that would match every pair purchased with a new pair given to a child in need. One for One. After five years of giving shoes, Blake was ready to address another need: vision. On June 7, 2011, TOMS debuted One for One Eyewear, which provides eye treatment, prescription glasses or eye surgery with every pair purchased.
Every pair of TOMS eyewear purchased will help give sight to a person in need. (Photo by Michael Kovac/Getty Images for TOMS) | Getty. For a company that gives millions of pairs of shoes to the needy each year, TOMS ends up receiving a startlingly heavy amount of criticism.
Blake Mycoskie founded the for-profit TOMS after a visit to Argentina, where he met children who were so poor that they had no shoes. Inspired to help, Mycoskie designed a shoe after the com-mon Argentinian alpargata, and pledged that for each pair sold, TOMS would donate a pair to a child in a developing country. 28 stanfor s iva revie / inter 2014 S ince the inception of TOMS Shoes in 2006, the buy-one give-one business model has been widely embraced (and criticized) by con-sumers and businesses alike as an effective model for creating both commercial and social value.
Toms. TOMS was founded in 2006 by Blake Mycoskie, inspired by a trip to Argentina where he saw extreme poverty and health conditions, as well as children walking without shoes. That s when he recognized the traditional Argentine alpargata shoe as a simple, yet revolutionary solution. Thanks to supporters, TOMS gave the One Millionth pair of new shoes to a child in need in September 2010. TOMS now gives in over 20 countries and works with charitable partners in the field who incorporate shoes into their health, education, hygiene, and community development programs.
Blake Mycoskie. Blake Mycoskie is the Founder and Chief Shoe Giver of TOMS, and the person behind the idea of One for One®, a business model that helps a person in need with every product purchased. 
The company designs and sells shoes based on the Argentine alpargata design as well as eyewear. When Toms sells a pair of shoes, a new pair of shoes is given to an impoverished child, and when Toms sells a pair of eyewear, part of the profit is used to save or restore the eyesight for people in developing countries. Similarly, the company launched TOMS Roasting Co. in 2014. With each purchase of TOMS Roasting Co. coffee, the company works with other organizations that they refer to as “giving partners” to provide 140 liters of safe water (a one week supply) to a person in need. In 2015, TOMS Bag Collection was launched to help address the need for advancements in maternal health.
Toms (stylized as TOMS) is a for-profit company based in Playa Del Rey, California, that operated the now defunct non-profit subsidiary, Friends of Toms. With each purchase of TOMS Roasting Co. coffee, the company works with other organizations that they refer to as “giving partners” to provide 140 liters of safe water (a one week supply) to a person in need. In 2015, TOMS Bag Collection was launched to help address the need for advancements in maternal health.
TOMS Shoes, Inc. was founded in 2006 by Blake Mycoskie, and the company's headquarters are located in Santa Monica, California. 
“But it wasn’t really until I started TOMS that I felt like I had my calling,” he says. The shoe company, founded in 2006, utilizes a One to One business model that donates a pair of shoes to a child in need for every pair that a consumer purchases. Mycoskie spoke to TIME about how he applies his business acumen in service of a compassionate mission.