Orange jasmine (Murraya paniculata) is an ornamental shrub that grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture hardiness zones 9B through 11. The fragrant flowers form red seed berries that can be germinated to produce new plants. 
Orange jessamine commonly grows to 12 feet in height and equally wide, but in some cases may take the shape of a tree and grow to be as tall as 20 feet. As a semi-tropical plant, orange jessamine is best planted in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 10 through 12. Feed plants older than two years with a 10-10-10 all-purpose fertilizer, applying no more than 1 tablespoon of fertilizer per foot of plant height. This should be done in the spring before new growth begins. Container-grown shrubs will need a fertilizer specified for potted plants.
MURRAYA paniculata. Murraya paniculata-Satinwood. 1  Fast growing evergreen shrub to 6-15 feet tall and as wide. 2  Very fragrant flowers appear in summer, followed by small red berries. 3  Likes partial shade and moderate to regular water. 4  Great for use as a hedge, topiary, or trained into a small tree. 1 Fast growing evergreen shrub to 6-15 feet tall and as wide. 2  Very fragrant flowers appear in summer, followed by small red berries.
Murraya paniculata. Sometimes known as orange jessamine, this evergreen shrub hails from tropical Asia and grows in a dense rounded form up to 3m in height if unpruned.
Murraya paniculata ‘Min-A-Min’ only grows about 1m (3′) tall, and so it makes an excellent low hedge or border. We recently received a letter saying that murraya is becoming a weed in some areas of northern Australia. This is also a problem because every plant grown from seed is different, and of no use to people who want to grow a uniform murraya hedge. Don pleaded with nursery propagators to stop growing murrayas from seed. These plants should only be grown from cuttings.
Container-grown orange jessamine plants will need watering more frequently than specimens grown outdoors. Murraya paniculata, commonly known as orange jessamine, satinwood or orange jasmine, is a flowering shrub with twisting branches, dark green, glossy leaves and fragrant blossoms. Feed plants older than two years with a 10-10-10 all-purpose fertilizer, applying no more than 1 tablespoon of fertilizer per foot of plant height. This should be done in the spring before new growth begins. Container-grown shrubs will need a fertilizer specified for potted plants.
This common name can also refer to Cestrum aurantiacum. Murraya paniculata is a tropical, evergreen plant native to southern China, Taiwan, the Indian sub-continent (i.e. India, Nepal, north-eastern Pakistan and Sri Lanka), south-eastern Asia (i.e. Flowers are terminal, corymbose, few-flowered, dense and fragrant. Petals are 12–18 mm long, recurved and white (or fading cream). The fruit of Murraya paniculata is fleshy, oblong-ovoid, coloured red to orange, and grows up to 1 inch in length.
In the West, Murraya paniculata is cultured as an ornamental tree or hedge because of its hardiness, wide range of soil tolerance (M. paniculata may grow in alkaline, clayey, sandy, acidic and loamy soils), and is suitable for larger hedges. Flowers are terminal, corymbose, few-flowered, dense and fragrant. Petals are 12–18 mm long, recurved and white (or fading cream). The fruit of Murraya paniculata is fleshy, oblong-ovoid, coloured red to orange, and grows up to 1 inch in length.