Serum protein electrophoresis showing a paraprotein (peak in the gamma zone) in a patient with multiple myeloma. A myeloma protein is an abnormal immunoglobulin fragment or immunoglobulin light chain that is produced in excess by an abnormal clonal proliferation of plasma cells, typically in multiple myeloma. Other terms for such a protein are M protein, M component, spike protein, or paraprotein. An excess in the blood is known as paraproteinemia. Paraproteins form a narrow band, or 'spike' in protein electrophoresis as they are all exactly the same protein. Unlike normal immunoglobulin antibodies, paraproteins cannot fight infection. Serum free light-chain measurement can detect free light chains in the blood.
par·a·pro·tein. 1. A monoclonal immunoglobulin of blood plasma, observed electrophoretically as an intense band in γ, β, or α regions, due to an isolated increase in a single immunoglobulin type as a result of a clone of plasma cells arising from the abnormal rapid multiplication of a single cell. 1. A monoclonal immunoglobulin of the blood plasma, produced by a clone of plasma cells arising from the abnormal rapid multiplication of a single cell. Paraprotein in serum may be seen in various malignant, benign, or nonneoplastic diseases. 2.
Paraproteins. The term paraprotein was introduced by Apitz in 1940 and is given to describe the abnormal proteins that are produced by myeloma cells and occur in the blood, urine and tissues. Occasionally paraprotein bands appear in the alpha-zones and in the post gamma region. Presence of monoclonal free light chains or Bence Jones protein in urine is suggestive of B cell malignancy and may be the only tumour marker.
Introduction. A paraprotein is the immunoglobulin product of a single cell clone and thus all the immunoglobulin produced will be of only one heavy chain type (IgG, IgA, IgM or rarely IgD) and/or only one light chain type (kappa or lambda; k or l). A paraprotein will only react with a single heavy chain and a single light chain type (e.g. IgG l), or only a single light chain class if only free light chains are produced. IIFX must be carried out in order to confirm monoclonality of the putative paraprotein band.
MGUS (monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance) is a non-cancerous (benign) condition in which large amounts of a type of antibody are produced in the body. This antibody is called a paraprotein (or M-protein). MGUS doesn’t usually cause any symptoms. It is usually diagnosed with blood and urine tests. MGUS (monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance) is a condition where the body makes an abnormal protein, called a paraprotein. These paraproteins are found in the blood and urine when they’re tested. MGUS is linked to the immune system. The immune system helps the body fight infection and disease.
Paraprotein. A paraprotein is an immunoglobulin or immunoglobulin light-chain that is produced in excess by the clonal proliferation of plasma cells. Detection of paraproteins in the urine or blood is most often associated with benign MGUS, where they remain silent, and multiple myeloma. 
Raised serum globulin concentration or total protein may be the first indication of a paraprotein, but a raised globulin level is more commonly due to polyclonally raised globulins in reaction to inflammation, infection, or cancer. Definition of the immunoglobulin class of the paraprotein by immunofixation (immunoglobulin heavy and light chain isotype). This is important as the type may direct future investigations. Myeloma is commonly associated with an IgG or IgA paraprotein, rarely IgD or IgE (see fig 2 ⇑).
paraprotein. a normal or abnormal plasma protein appearing in large quantities as a result of some pathologic condition, now replaced in most contexts by the term m component. 1. A monoclonal immunoglobulin of the blood plasma, produced by a clone of plasma cells arising from the abnormal rapid multiplication of a single cell. Paraprotein in serum may be seen in various malignant, benign, or nonneoplastic diseases. 2.
Paraproteinemia, or monoclonal gammopathy, is the presence of excessive amounts of paraprotein or single monoclonal gammaglobulin in the blood. It is usually due to an underlying immunoproliferative disorder. It is sometimes considered equivalent to plasma cell dyscrasia. 
par·a·pro·tein. 1. A monoclonal immunoglobulin of the blood plasma, produced by a clone of plasma cells arising from the abnormal rapid multiplication of a single cell. Paraprotein in serum may be seen in various malignant, benign, or nonneoplastic diseases. 2. Synonym(s): monoclonal immunoglobul