Peritonitis is most often caused by introduction of an infection into the otherwise sterile peritoneal environment through organ perforation, but it may also result from other irritants, such as foreign bodies, bile from a perforated gall bladder or a lacerated liver, or gastric acid from a perforated ulcer. Depending on the underlying pathology, the resultant peritonitis may be infectious or sterile (ie, chemical or mechanical). Intra-abdominal sepsis is an inflammation of the peritoneum caused by pathogenic microorganisms and their products.
Background. Peritonitis is defined as an inflammation of the serosal membrane that lines the abdominal cavity and the organs contained therein. The peritoneum, which is an otherwise sterile environment, reacts to various pathologic stimuli with a fairly uniform inflammatory response. Depending on the underlying pathology, the resultant peritonitis may be infectious or sterile (ie, chemical or mechanical). Intra-abdominal sepsis is an inflammation of the peritoneum caused by pathogenic microorganisms and their products.
Peritonitis is an inflammation of the peritoneum, the tissue that lines the inner wall of the abdomen and covers and supports most of your abdominal organs. Peritonitis is usually caused by infection from bacteria or fungi. Symptoms of Peritonitis. The first symptoms of peritonitis are typically poor appetite and nausea and a dull abdominal ache that quickly turns into persistent, severe abdominal pain, which is worsened by any movement. Other signs and symptoms related to peritonitis may include: 1  Abdominal tenderness or distention. 2  Chills
Peritonitis that develops without an abdominal rupture (spontaneous peritonitis) is usually a complication of liver disease, such as cirrhosis. Advanced cirrhosis causes a large amount of fluid buildup in your abdominal cavity (ascites). That fluid buildup is susceptible to bacterial infection. Though it’s rare, the condition can develop without an abdominal rupture. This type of peritonitis is called spontaneous peritonitis. Common causes of ruptures that lead to peritonitis include: 1  Medical procedures, such as peritoneal dialysis.
This is called the peritoneum. Inflammation of the peritoneum is called peritonitis. The inflammation is caused by a fungal or bacterial infection, usually due to an injury to your abdomen, an underlying medical condition, or a treatment device, such as a dialysis catheter or feeding tube. Peritonitis is a serious condition that requires immediate medical care.
Infection of the peritoneum can happen for a variety of reasons. In most cases, the cause is a rupture (perforation) within the abdominal wall. Though it’s rare, the condition can develop without an abdominal rupture. This type of peritonitis is called spontaneous peritonitis. Common causes of ruptures that lead to peritonitis include: 1  Medical procedures, such as peritoneal dialysis. 2  Peritoneal dialysis uses tubes (catheters) to remove waste products from your blood when your kidneys can no longer adequately do so
Secondary peritonitis is usually caused by an infection that has spread from your digestive tract. The following conditions can cause peritonitis: 1  an abdominal wound or injury. 2  a ruptured appendix. 3  a stomach ulcer. 4  a perforated colon. The inflammation is caused by a fungal or bacterial infection, usually due to an injury to your abdomen, an underlying medical condition, or a treatment device, such as a dialysis catheter or feeding tube. Peritonitis is a serious condition that requires immediate medical care.
If you have any symptoms of peritonitis, call your doctor right away. Seeking prompt medical attention is especially important for peritoneal dialysis patients who have a combination of abdominal pain and a clouding of the peritoneal fluid, which is caused by a buildup of infection-fighting white blood cells. Your doctor also may perform a paracentesis, a procedure in which fluid from the abdominal cavity is withdrawn through a thin needle and checked for infection. Paracentesis is useful for identifying primary spontaneous peritonitis and secondary peritonitis caused by pancreatitis.
Peritonitis is inflammation of the peritoneum, typically due to infection by bacteria or fungi. The infection can appear as acute or chronic and can be classified as local (contained to one area of the peritoneal cavity) or diffuse (spread throughout peritoneal cavity). 