Most institutions require that candidates hold an honors degree or a master’s degree with high academic standing, along with a bachelor’s degree with at least upper second-class honors. In some cases, you can also apply for a PhD simply on the basis of your master’s degree grades. This is an academic or professional degree that, in most countries, qualifies the degree holder to teach their chosen subject at university level or to work in a specialized position in their chosen field.
PhD is short for Doctor of Philosophy (also abbreviated to DPhil or Dr.Philos). This is an academic or professional degree that, in most countries, qualifies the degree holder to teach their chosen subject at university level or to work in a specialized position in their chosen field.
An August degree candidate is a student who completes all requirements for the bachelor's degree in the summer; thus, completing work during one of the summer school sessions. Grades from summer classes are officially due in August; thus, an August candidate. A January degree candidate is a student who completes all requirements for the bachelor's degree in the fall; thus, completing work in December (the end of the fall semester).
A June degree candidate is a student who completes all requirements for the bachelor's degree in the spring; thus, completing work in May (the end of the spring semester). Grades are officially due in June; thus, a June candidate. A January degree candidate is a student who completes all requirements for the bachelor's degree in the fall; thus, completing work in December (the end of the fall
Best Answer: Someone who is working on that degree. For instance, a graduate student may be a master's candidate or a PhD candidate. 
A student usually advances to doctoral candidate once he or she has completed all coursework required for the degree and has passed the doctoral comprehensive exam. As a doctoral candidate, the student's final task is to complete the dissertation. Unfortunately many doctoral candidates remain in the ABD status for several reasons: 1) difficulty of conducting dissertation research. 2) time management and motivational deficits. 
Best Answer: Following a grad check, a student's graduation status is determined. A January degree candidate is a student who completes all requirements for the bachelor's degree in the fall; thus, completing work in December (the end of the fall semester). Grades are officially due in January; thus, a January candidate
Here in the U.S., a “Ph.D. Candidate” is a student who has completed all of the academic requirements for their degree, except their dissertation. So this works in the USA and Canada I presume, because they have structured PhD programs where you attend courses as part of your PhD. When you see PhD CANDIDATE think he/she is a CANDIDATE for a job in their field. Versus PhD student they are still a student learning their field of study. In Texas public University you are a candidate when you pass all of your doctoral exams. Usually at this point you have already completed all of your course work.
Here in the U.S., a “Ph.D. Candidate” is a student who has completed all of the academic requirements for their degree, except their dissertation. I see researchers working on their PhD calling themselves PhD Candidates, other call themselves PhD students. When you see PhD CANDIDATE think he/she is a CANDIDATE for a job in their field. Versus PhD student they are still a student learning their field of study. In Texas public University you are a candidate when you pass all of your doctoral exams. Usually at this point you have already completed all of your course work.
1 The Candidate of Philosophy is the lowest academic degree, essentially the same as a bachelor's degree, in several countries. 2  For example, Finland and Sweden give these degrees, which are, however, usually translated as Bachelor. The Master of Philosophy and Master of Research degrees in the United Kingdom. The Master of Research typically contains taught work similar to the prerequisite needed for the doctorate in the US and is pursued as a stand-alone degree.