A definition of holistic health would not be complete without highlighting the fact that wellness approaches in the holistic field are considered to be wholesome, healthy and not harmful or toxic to the individual or the environment. They promote balance and harmony for the individual, society and the planet. A holistic health approach doesn't view the body, mind and spirit as separate entities and promotes drugs and surgery only when absolutely essential and after other solutions have been sought. It looks for the underlying causes of symptoms, rather than just covering up the symptoms with a drug.
Holistic Health is a form of alternative health care that is shared by many believers. Alternative health therapies are those that are practiced outside the realm of modern scientific belief therapies. The word holistic stems from the Greek work holos that means all or total. So one could say that holistic health is whole health. There is an important player in the holistic health world. That is the holistic healer. This person is like a physician is in the mainstream world of medicine. This person should be well trained and researched before someone trusts them, just like someone would do when researching a regular physician.
What is the definition of holistic health? It's a wellness approach that addresses the body, mind and spirit or the physical, emotional/mental and spiritual aspects of an individual. A holistic health approach doesn't view the body, mind and spirit as separate entities and promotes drugs and surgery only when absolutely essential and after other solutions have been sought. It looks for the underlying causes of symptoms, rather than just covering up the symptoms with a drug.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. Holistic medicine is a form of healing that considers the whole person -- body, mind, spirit, and emotions -- in the quest for optimal health and wellness. Principles of Holistic Medicine. Holistic medicine is also based on the belief that unconditional love and support is the most powerful healer and a person is ultimately responsible for his or her own health and well-being. Other principles of holistic medicine include the following: 1  All people have innate healing powers. 2  The patient is a person, not a disease. 3  Healing takes a team approach involving the patient and doctor, and addresses all aspects of a person's life using a variety of health care practice
Report Abuse. Hi there, the holistic approach usually means that there are many ways to heal somebody's body and instead only using traditional medicine, there are holistic methods such as: meditation practice, acupuncture, cyropractic care, etc... 
Definition. Holistic medicine is a term used to describe therapies that attempt to treat the patient as a whole person. That is, instead of treating an illness, as in orthodox allopathy, holistic medicine looks at an individual's overall physical, mental, spiritual, and emotional wellbeing before recommending treatment. 
Holistic health is more then a one-way approach to wellness; it is a lifestyle and an approach to how treatment should be applied. The holistic believer is involved in the role of complete wholeness completely, where as the person being treated by a traditional physician takes a more passive role. There is an important player in the holistic health world. That is the holistic healer. This person is like a physician is in the mainstream world of medicine. This person should be well trained and researched before someone trusts them, just like someone would do when researching a regular physician.
Print and export a summary to use in your appraisal. Holistic medicine means consideration of the complete person, physically, psychologically, socially, and spiritually, in the management and prevention of disease. It is underpinned by the concept that there is a link between our physical health and our more general 'well-being'. 