The main climates of Africa are desert, savanna, rain forest, and mediterranean. Desert climate zones are hot and dry. The soil in the savanna fertile. In the rain forest, ve … getation makes farming impossible. Mediterranean climates on the north Africa coast and southern tip of Africa is mild. Summers are mostly hot while winters a generally mild and rainy. land is fertile in some of these areas. There are four major zones of the open ocean biomes, which are grouped as such: the intertidal zone, the pelagic zone, the benthic zone and the abyssal zone. The environments … found in each vary greatly, and they play host to a diverse population of ocean flora and fauna.
World's second largest continent. Africa is the second largest continent, approximately three times the size of the United States. The African continent measures 5,200 miles from north to south, and at its broadest point, is nearly as wide as it is long. Africa’s 11,636,846 square miles of land are divided into 55 countries (including South Sudan, which became a separate country in 2011). Africa is bordered by: 1  the Atlantic Ocean to the west. 2  the Indian Ocean to the east.
Temperate climates remain rare through the continent except at very high elevations and along the fringes. In fact, the climate of Africa is more dependent to rainfall amount than to temperatures as they are consistently high. African deserts are the sunniest and the driest parts of the continent due to the prevailing presence of the subtropical ridge with subsiding, hot, dry air masses. Great parts of North Africa and Southern Africa as well as the whole Horn of Africa mainly have a hot desert climate, or a hot semi-arid climate for the wetter locations. The Sahara Desert at the north is the largest hot desert in the world and is one of the hottest, driest and sunniest places on Earth.
Climate zones of Africa, showing the ecological break between the hot desert climate of the Sahara Desert (red), the hot semi-arid climate of the Sahel (orange) and the tropical climate of Central and Western Africa (blue). Great parts of North Africa and Southern Africa as well as the whole Horn of Africa mainly have a hot desert climate, or a hot semi-arid climate for the wetter locations. The Sahara Desert at the north is the largest hot desert in the world and is one of the hottest, driest and sunniest places on Earth.
The main climates of Africa are desert, savanna, rain forest, and mediterranean. Desert climate zones are hot and dry. The soil in the savanna fertile. In the rain forest, ve … getation makes farming impossible. Mediterranean climates on the north Africa coast and southern tip of Africa is mild. Summers are mostly hot while winters a generally mild and rainy. land is fertile in some of these areas. By Fabrice Tuyizere.
This causes the vegetation zone known as Chaparral. Mediterranean climate zones are found at Mid-Latitudes regions such as around the Mediterranean Sea, southern California and the east coast of South Africa. Region of the Earth between the Tropics of the equatorial region and the polar regions. This is the region with the greatest variety of climate and vegetation zones. Region is seasonal, unlike the equatorial region, and the seasons become more defined the closer in latitudes to the poles.
A forests climate influences the types of vegetation and animals that live there. It is therefore possible to divide the world into a number of climatic zones each with its own characteristic climate, vegetation and wildlife. 1  Tropical forests are found near the equator in Central America, parts Africa and Asia. 
Only the northernmost and the southernmost fringes of the continent have a Mediterranean climate because they aren't located under the tropics. Because of this geographical situation, Africa is a hot continent as the solar radiation intensity is always high. Great parts of North Africa and Southern Africa as well as the whole Horn of Africa mainly have a hot desert climate, or a hot semi-arid climate for the wetter locations. The Sahara Desert at the north is the largest hot desert in the world and is one of the hottest, driest and sunniest places on Earth.
1 The Sahara in the north is the world’s largest desert (only three countries have a greater area – Russia, Canada and China). 2  The Kalahari in southern Africa covers an area larger than France. 3  Highland – largely found in the east, below the Horn of Africa. 4  Marine – largely in the southeast. Africa’s 11,636,846 square miles of land are divided into 55 countries (including South Sudan, which became a separate country in 2011). Africa is bordered by: 1  the Atlantic Ocean to the west. 2  the Indian Ocean to the east.