Background. The Tenseigan. The Tenseigan was first manifested by Hamura Ōtsutsuki. Due to this, the combination of his two bloodlines, the Hyūga and the Ōtsutsuki clans, can evolve the Byakugan into the Tenseigan. This article, Tenseigan, contains content taken directly from our mother site. All credit of such content is reserved the original authors over at Narutopedia, the original article can be read here: Tenseigan .
I see, Naruto nodded. The strength of a ascended Dojutsu, the Tenseigan or the Rinnegan, does depend on the strength of the Dojutsu it matures from. However, that is not the most powerful pair of Byakugan. Two have that claim. The Tenseigan that I got from Hamura were the strongest Byakugan. Those two are the base of the Great Dojutsu and the Tenseigan. The Rinnegan, can be formed only by combining the bloodlines of the Senju and the Uchiha. I'm not sure if Uzumaki could be a replacement for the Senju. As for the Tenseigan, it is a bit more tricky.
6,041 pages on this wiki. The Tenseigan (転生眼, Literally meaning: Reincarnation Eye) is a powerful dōjutsu utilised by the Ōtsutsuki clan. It is characterised by a blue pupil surrounded by a blue and white flower-like iris. As the last survivor of the Ōtsutsuki clan, Toneri concluded that mankind did, in fact, use chakra for evil purposes and he became determined to fulfil his clan's thousand year vow and destroy humanity by awakening the Tenseigan and dropping the Moon on the Earth.
Unknown, Hamura Otsutsuki manifested the Tenseigan in his lifetime without using the power of the many Byakugan that Toneri did, as it is the combined bloodline of both the Otsutsuki and Hyuga that can awaken the Tenseigan. 
This was proven a millennium after Hamura's time by one of his descendants, Toneri Ōtsutsuki, who awakened the Tenseigan by kidnapping Hanabi Hyūga and stealing her Byakugan; he having to do this due to his eyes being sealed within the Energy Vessel at a young age. As the last survivor of the Ōtsutsuki clan, Toneri concluded that mankind did, in fact, use chakra for evil purposes and he became determined to fulfil his clan's thousand year vow and destroy humanity by awakening the Tenseigan and dropping the Moon on the Earth.
It was said on that web page that the Tenseigan is some kind of an evolution of the Byakugan eye technique that the Hyuuga clan members have been using throughout the years. It was still uncertain if this is really an “evolution” or like a dormant power. That’s absurd! We’ve all seen the power of the Rinnegan and it is THE MOST powerful Dojutsu among the Three Great Dojutsu. As for the claim that Tenseigan is on par with Rinnegan, I won’t believe it until I’ve seen it in action.
This was proven a millennium after Hamura's time by one of his descendants, Toneri Ōtsutsuki, who awakened the Tenseigan by kidnapping Hanabi Hyūga and stealing her Byakugan; Toneri having to do this being born without eyes due to the sealing away of his clan's eyes within the energy vessel. This article, Tenseigan, contains content taken directly from our mother site. All credit of such content is reserved the original authors over at Narutopedia, the original article can be read here: Tenseigan .
For those of you who haven't had the chance to read the plot of the Naruto the Last movie, post located ., you are probably unfamiliar with the Tenseigan. If you do not wish to be spoiled from a central plot point, this is your SPOILER WARNING. Boruto and Himawari, Naruto and Hinata's children, are depicted in Chapter 700 with blue eyes, in fact, in some versions they are even paler than their fathers. I found this very strange given that we have never seen Hyuga bloodline characters without Byakugan before.
The Tenseigan allows the user to control both attractive and repulsive forces, similiar to the Rinnegan 's Deva Path. Additionally, it also grants the wielder Tenseigan Chakra Mode, which in turn gives the user an increase in speed, power, strength, durability, and reflexes. As the last survivor of the Ōtsutsuki clan, Toneri concluded that mankind did, in fact, use chakra for evil purposes and he became determined to fulfil his clan's thousand year vow and destroy humanity by awakening the Tenseigan and dropping the Moon on the Earth.