A natural probiotic, yogurt is an excellent iodine food you should add to your diet. One serving holds more than half of your daily needs. 1 cup contains approximately 90/mcg of iodine.
There are plenty of foods that are naturally high in Iodine. They range from seafood to potatoes, and it’s good to get a balance of different foods so that you’re not relying on one source. You can also find Iodine in supplements that contain kelp, as this is another place where Iodine is naturally found.
Food Sources. Iodized salt is table salt with iodine added. It is the main food source of iodine. Seafood is naturally rich in iodine. Cod, sea bass, haddock, and perch are good sources. Kelp is the most common vegetable-seafood that is a rich source of iodine. Dairy products also contain iodine. Other good sources are plants grown in iodine-rich soil.
In general, foods from the sea contain the most iodine, followed by animal foods, then plant foods. Of all foods, seaweed (like kelp), is the most well known and reliable source of natural iodine. Egg and dairy products can also be good sources.
The thyroid gland synthesizes thyroid hormones and iodine is an essential trace mineral that is crucial for the thyroid to function properly. Eating foods rich in iodine ensures the thyroid is able to manage metabolism, detoxification, growth and development.
1 Although, iodine is present in bananas, prunes, and lima beans; however, it is found in negligible amounts. 2  Vegetables such as organic navy beans contain fiber and iodine. 3  About 1/2 cup of navy beans contain approximately 32/mcg of iodine. 4  Iodized salt –the main food source of iodine is the table salt.
Iodine is a trace element that is naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. Iodine is an essential component of the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3).
1 The best natural occurring source of iodine is saltwater seafood. 2  Freshwater seafood also contains iodine. 3  Iodine is added to all table salt in Canada. 4  1 teaspoon of table salt contains 380 mcg of iodine. 5  Kosher, pickling and sea salt are a source of natural iodine but do not contain as much as iodized table salt.