High: At or above 240 mg/dL. If your total cholesterol is high, you have twice the risk for heart disease as a person with normal total cholesterol. Here is the adult range for HDL cholesterol: Normal: 35 to 65 mg/dL for men, 35 to 80 mg/dL for women. If your number is less than 25 mg/dL, your risk for coronary heart disease is doubled. If your number is between 60 and 74 mg/dL, your risk for coronary heart disease is below average
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high. If your LDL goes higher, your total cholesterol level could become Borderline High
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high. If your LDL goes higher, your total cholesterol level could become Borderline High
1 Limit cholesterol intake to less than 300 mg per day, for most people. 2  If you have coronary heart disease or your LDL cholesterol level is 100 mg/dL or greater, limit your cholesterol intake to less than 200 milligrams a day. 
The ratio is obtained by dividing the total cholesterol by the HDL cholesterol. For example, if a person has a total cholesterol result of 200 mg/dL and an HDL cholesterol level of 50 mg/dL, the ratio would be stated as 4 (or 4:1). A desirable ratio is below 5 (5:1); the optimum ratio is 3.5 (3.5:1). 
Tags: normal cholesterol levels, normal cholesterol range, cholesterol range, cholesterol levels chart, cholesterol numbers. Author Bio. Vaughn's Summaries ©2004-2015 Vaughn Aubuchon www.vaughns-1-pagers.com All Rights Reserved. Site Map. This Vaughns Normal Cholesterol Levels Chart was last updated on 2015-04-14. 
In the United States, cholesterol levels are calculated in milligrams of cholesterol for each deciliter of blood. A result of under 200 mg per dL (5.2 mmol/L) is ideal. A level somewhere between 200 to 239 mg per dL (5.2 and 6.2 mmol/L) is within the edge line of high-risk class. A normal HDL cholesterol is in between 40 and 49 mg per dL (1 and 1.3 mmol/L) for men. As for women, it is between 50 and 59 mg per dL (1.3 and 1.5 mmol/L).
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is optimal. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high. If your LDL goes higher, your total cholesterol level could become Borderline High. Consider reducing the amount of foods you eat with saturated fats and increasing physical activity. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is optimal. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal.