1 Open posture is a posture in which the vulnerable parts of the body are exposed. 2  The head is raised, the shirt may be unbuttoned at the neck, a bag is held on the shoulder or at the side. 3  Open posture is often perceived as communicating a friendly and positive attitude. The term posture is also used to refer to the appearance of the body. In psychology, there are several concepts involving the appearance of the permanent characteristics of individuals. Some habitual positions may also reflect stable characteristics of an individual.
Oculesics, a subcategory of body language, is the study of eye movement, eye behavior, gaze, and eye-related nonverbal communication. As a social or behavioral science, oculesics is a form of nonverbal communication focusing on deriving meaning from eye behavior. A few studies show that facial expression and bodily expression (i.e. body language) are congruent when interpreting emotions. Behavioural experiments have also shown that recognition of facial expression is influenced by perceived bodily expression.
Our interpretation of body language, notably eyes and facial expressions, is instinctive, and with a little thought and knowledge we can significantly increase our conscious awareness of these signals: both the signals we transmit, and the signals in others that we observe. Body language also depends on context: body language in a certain situation might not mean the same in another. Some 'body language' isn't what it seems at all, for example: 1  Someone rubbing their eye might have an irritation, rather than being tired-or disbelieving, or upset.
In humans, one of the means of communication is the posture of the body, in addition to facial expressions, personal distances, gestures and body movements. Posture conveys information about: 1  Interpersonal relations. 2  Personality traits such as confidence, submissiveness, and openness. The term posture is also used to refer to the appearance of the body. In psychology, there are several concepts involving the appearance of the permanent characteristics of individuals. Some habitual positions may also reflect stable characteristics of an individual.
Body language is more than those brief descriptions. 1  Body language certainly also encompasses where the body is in relation to other bodies (often referred to as 'personal space'). 2  Body language certainly also includes very small bodily movements such as facial expressions and eye movements. Body language also depends on context: body language in a certain situation might not mean the same in another. Some 'body language' isn't what it seems at all, for example: 1  Someone rubbing their eye might have an irritation, rather than being tired-or disbelieving, or upset.
1 Closed posture is a posture in which parts of the body most susceptible to trauma are obscured. 2  These body parts are: throat, abdomen and genitals. 3  Damage to the genitals prevents the transfer of their genes to future generations and is sometimes seen as being synonymous with death. The term posture is also used to refer to the appearance of the body. In psychology, there are several concepts involving the appearance of the permanent characteristics of individuals. Some habitual positions may also reflect stable characteristics of an individual.
Body language is communication without words. It is anything someone does to which someone else assigns meaning. Not all of the signals a person sends are intentional and often they are not picked up or misinterpreted. Nonverbal communication is a rather misleading term. Nonverbal excludes vocal or paralinguistic cues and signals like emotional tone of speech, which is clearly very important. Body language also excludes vocal cues.
What you stand on can make a lot of difference in your posture. Concrete is one of the worst things to stand or even walk on. Hard, unforgiving surfaces can wreak havoc on your posture and body in general. Grass, carpet, and wood are better than stone, tile and concrete. 
Body language, on the other hand, does not have a grammar and must be interpreted broadly, instead of having an absolute meaning corresponding with a certain movement, so it is not a language like sign language, and is simply termed as a language due to popular culture. A few studies show that facial expression and bodily expression (i.e. body language) are congruent when interpreting emotions. Behavioural experiments have also shown that recognition of facial expression is influenced by perceived bodily expression.
Body language is a part of nonverbal language. It includes things like stance, gestures, facial expressions, and even small things that are barely perceptible like a brief shrug of the shoulder or nod of the head. 