Divide the total hourly compensation by the total number of hourly employees. Continuing the same example, $151 / 5 = $30.20. This figure represents the average or mean hourly rate for all employees within the organization. The average hourly rate is a mean calculation that states the total hourly compensation for all hourly employees divided by the number of hourly employees within the organization. Step 1. Determine the total number of hourly employees within the organization. For example, assume the business has five
Multiply your average labor hours per unit by the average wage rate per hour. This is your average labor cost per unit. Note that it is an average, and actual unit labor costs may be above and below the average. To make a standard labor cost card for each unit, write down your calculations in detail. Add the $1.50 in employee payroll tax to the $10 hourly rate to get the total direct labor hourly rate of $11.50. Calculate Labor Hours. Direct labor hours, also known as the direct labor efficiency standard, is the number of direct labor hours it takes to produce one finished item.
Divide the annual overhead costs by the number of billable hours or production units to get the overhead cost per hour or per unit. For example, if your overhead costs and billable hours average $10,000 and 2,000 per year, respectively, then your overhead rate is $10,000 divided by 2,000, or $5 per hour. Then, divide the result by the number of full-time hours per week to get the hourly rate. Add a benefit percentage to get the total direct hourly labor rate. For example, if a customer service representative gets $26,000 per year, his weekly salary is $26,000 divided by 52, or $500.
Let's begin by determining the standard cost of direct labor for the good output produced in January 2014: Assuming that the actual direct labor in January adds up to 50 hours and the actual hourly rate of pay (including payroll taxes) is $9 per hour, our analysis will look like this: (The direct labor efficiency variance could be called the direct labor quantity variance or usage variance.). Note that DenimWorks paid $9 per hour for labor when the standard rate is $10 per hour. This $1 difference—multiplied by the 50 actual hours—results in a $50 favorable direct labor rate variance. (The direct labor rate variance could be called the direct labor price variance.).
The standard cost of direct labor for the good output produced in February 2014 is computed here: If we assume that the actual labor hours in February add up to 75 and the hourly rate of pay (including payroll taxes) is $11 per hour, the total equals $825. (The direct labor efficiency variance could be called the direct labor quantity variance or usage variance.). Note that DenimWorks paid $9 per hour for labor when the standard rate is $10 per hour. This $1 difference—multiplied by the 50 actual hours—results in a $50 favorable direct labor rate variance. (The direct labor rate variance could be called the direct labor price variance.)
Calculate Per Unit Cost. The direct labor standard rate is your direct labor cost per unit. To calculate the number, multiply the direct labor hourly rate by the number of direct labor hours required to complete one unit. Add the $1.50 in employee payroll tax to the $10 hourly rate to get the total direct labor hourly rate of $11.50. Calculate Labor Hours. Direct labor hours, also known as the direct labor efficiency standard, is the number of direct labor hours it takes to produce one finished item.
The total hourly rate is equal to the direct labor costs plus the hourly overhead costs. Without the overhead costs, the hourly rate is equal to the labor rate. For example, if the direct labor and overhead costs are $30 and $5 per hour, respectively, the total hourly rate is $35. The hourly rate without the overhead is $30 per hour. Then, divide the result by the number of full-time hours per week to get the hourly rate. Add a benefit percentage to get the total direct hourly labor rate. For example, if a customer service representative gets $26,000 per year, his weekly salary is $26,000 divided by 52, or $500.
You are going to have both a cost rate and a sell rate. Start with cost. You need to bundle your resources into labor categories. To determine your cost rate, you need to determine all the direct salary and benefit costs of a particular labor category, including the average hourly rate plus benefits. As Pawel suggested 1.2, in the U.S., I find it closer to be 1.5.
Step 2. Determine the total hourly compensation paid to all hourly employees in the organization. Add the individual hourly rate of every hourly employee. For example, a company with five employees that earn $20, $25, $26, $30 and $50 per hour would add $20 + $25 + $26 + $30 + $50 = $151. Related Reading: How to Calculate the Hourly Rate to a Semi-Monthly Payroll. Step 3. The average hourly rate is a mean calculation that states the total hourly compensation for all hourly employees divided by the number of hourly employees within the organization. Step 1. Determine the total number of hourly employees within the organization. For example, assume the business has five employees.