Beef eye of round makes for a low-cholesterol choice with 58 milligrams in a 3.5-ounce uncooked serving. An even better choice is a a top loin with 40 milligrams in the same serving size. If you're hankering for a hamburger, make it with lean ground meat, which has 78 milligrams of cholesterol in a 3.5-ounce serving. Although it's high in sodium, ham is a lean cut of meat. Depending on the type of ham you choose, the amount of cholesterol in a 3.5-ounce portion ranges from 38 to 53 milligrams. Pork tenderloin is also a low-cholesterol choice, with 4
Fruits and vegetables are low in saturated fat and total fat, and have no cholesterol. A diet high in fruit and vegetables may also help keep cholesterol levels low. So fruits and vegetables are great substitutes for foods high in saturated fat and cholesterol. Breads, cereals, rice, pasta, and other grains, and dry beans and peas are generally high in starch and fiber and low in saturated fat and calories. 
Pork also has its share of low-cholesterol meat choices. Although it's high in sodium, ham is a lean cut of meat. Depending on the type of ham you choose, the amount of cholesterol in a 3.5-ounce portion ranges from 38 to 53 milligrams. Pork tenderloin is also a low-cholesterol choice, with 48 milligrams in a 3.5-ounce uncooked serving.
To lower your blood cholesterol level, choose only the leanest meats, poultry, fish and shellfish. 1  Choose chicken and turkey without skin or remove skin before eating. 2  Some fish, like cod, have less saturated fat than either chicken or meat. 1 Try fresh ground turkey or chicken that is made from white meat like the breast. 2  Remember that some chicken and turkey hot dogs are lower in saturated fat and total fat than pork and beef hot dogs. 3  There are also lean beef hot dogs and vegetarian (made with tofu) franks that are low in fat and saturated fat.
Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol. To avoid eating too many nuts and gaining weight, replace foods high in saturated fat with nuts. For example, instead of using cheese, meat or croutons in your salad, add a handful of walnuts or almonds. Avocados are a potent source of nutrients as well as monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs).
Meat Substitute. Dry peas and beans and tofu (bean curd) are great meat substitutes that are low in saturated fat and cholesterol. Dry peas and beans also have a lot of fiber, which can help to lower blood cholesterol. Try adding a ½ cup beans to pasta, soups, casseroles, and vegetable dishes. Tofu takes on the flavor of marinades well. 1 Try fresh ground turkey or chicken that is made from white meat like the breast. 2  Remember that some chicken and turkey hot dogs are lower in saturated fat and total fat than pork and beef hot dogs. 3  There are also lean beef hot dogs and vegetarian (made with tofu) franks that are low in fat and saturated fat.
Soy. Eating soybeans and foods made from them, like tofu and soy milk, was once touted as a powerful way to lower cholesterol. Analyses show that the effect is more modest — consuming 25 grams of soy protein a day (10 ounces of tofu or 2 1/2 cups of soy milk) can lower LDL by 5% to 6%. Fatty fish. Like oats and oat bran, barley and other whole grains can help lower the risk of heart disease, mainly via the soluble fiber they deliver. Beans. Beans are especially rich in soluble fiber. They also take a while for the body to digest, meaning you feel full for longer after a meal.
Cholesterol in Meats and Dairy. To keep your blood cholesterol level low, choose only the leanest meats, poultry, fish and shellfish. 1  Choose chicken and turkey without skin or remove skin before eating. 2  Some fish, like cod, have less saturated fat than either chicken or meat. 1 Most fish is lower in saturated fat and cholesterol than meat or poultry. 2  Shellfish varies in cholesterol content. 3  Shellfish have little saturated fat and total fat. 4  Even shrimp can be enjoyed occasionally on a Heart Healthy Diet provided you eat less than 300 milligrams of cholesterol a day.