Burma, or Myanmar as it is called by the Military Junta, is a country where magnificent and ancient Buddhist temples gaze out serenely over a nation restless for change. 
What do you call someone from Burma? In other words, what are people from Burma called? A person from Burma and/or a citizen of Burma is called Burmese. You may also be interested in what people from Burma speak? In other words, what language do people in Burma speak? The language that people speak in Burma is Myanmar and Burmese. Okay, now that you know what people from Burma are called and you know what language they speak, you may want to learn more about the people of Burma. Here is more information about the country of Burma.
Answer   Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Bay of Bengal, between Bangladesh and Thailand.   Burma, now called Myanmar is located in souther … Asia. It's borderd by India and the Inidan ocean to the west, China to the north, Laos and Thailand to the east and Malaysia to the south.
The main people of Myanmar are called Myanmar or Bamar.   There are seven states in Myanmar and therefore there are Seven Main races of Myanmar. They are   * Kachi … n  * Kayah  * Kayin  * Chin  * Mon  * Rakhine  * Shan. 6 people found this useful. The area of Burma is part of the Union of Myanmar. It is located in an area called IndoChina and is bordered by China, Thailand and some other sm … all South East Asian places.
[mjəma]), mjəmà officially The republic of The union Of myanmar and also known As (/burma/ ˈBɜRMə-bur), mə is a sovereign state In Southeast asia bordered By, Bangladesh, India, China laos And. thailand 
Destination Myanmar. Myanmar is a country in Southeast Asia, also known as Burma, its also called the Golden Land. With an area of 676,578 km² the country is almost twice the size of Germany or slightly smaller than the U.S. state of Texas. 
The area of Burma is part of the Union of Myanmar. It is located in an area called IndoChina and is bordered by China, Thailand and some other sm … all South East Asian places. 3 people found this useful. Burma, now called Myanmar is located in souther … Asia. It's borderd by India and the Inidan ocean to the west, China to the north, Laos and Thailand to the east and Malaysia to the south.
It's general practice at the BBC to refer to the country as Burma, and the BBC News website says this is because most of its audience is familiar with that name rather than Myanmar. The same goes for Rangoon, people in general are more familiar with this name than Yangon. Myanmar is the literary form, which is ceremonial and official and reeks of government. [The name change] is a form of censorship.. If Burmese people are writing for publication, they use 'Myanmar', but speaking they use 'Burma', he says.
There should not have such terms like Myanmarese or Myanmese. I, as a Burmese, like only refering to me as Burmese or Myanmar. The demonym(resident of locality) of Myanmar(country) is Myanmar. The area of Burma is part of the Union of Myanmar. It is located in an area called IndoChina and is bordered by China, Thailand and some other sm … all South East Asian places.
Mark Farmener, of Burma Campaign UK, says: Often you can tell where someone's sympathies lie if they use Burma or Myanmar. Myanmar is a kind of indicator of countries that are soft on the regime. But really it's not important. Myanmar is the literary form, which is ceremonial and official and reeks of government. [The name change] is a form of censorship.. If Burmese people are writing for publication, they use 'Myanmar', but speaking they use 'Burma', he says.