(A) Diagram of autophagy; (B) Electron micrograph of autophagic structures in the fatbody of a fruit fly larva; (C) Fluorescently labeled autophagosomes in liver cells of starved mice. Autophagy is constantly activated in normal cartilage but it is compromised with age and precedes cartilage cell death and structural damage. These results suggest autophagy is a normal protective process (chondroprotection) in the joint.
Autophagy is a normal process in which a cell destroys proteins and other substances in its cytoplasm (the fluid inside the cell membrane but outside the nucleus), which may lead to cell death. 
Autophagy (literally “self-eating”) is a lysosome-mediated intracellular bulk degradation pathway employed by eukaryotic cells when subjected to certain hostile conditions (such as nutrient deprivation) that triggers digestion and recycling of cellular contents. 
Autophagy-tidying up, survival on a shoestring and death by over-cleansing. Autophagy literally means 'to eat oneself'. It is the cells way of recycling cytoplasmic components to give the cell a bit of a spring clean and get rid of any old or damaged proteins and organelles.
Macroautophagy (referred to hereafter as autophagy) is a genetically regulated and dynamic process associated with the formation of autophagosome, a double-membrane cytoplasmic vesicle that engulfs cellular components. Abstract. The process of macroautophagy (referred to hereafter as autophagy), is generally characterized by the prominent formation of autophagic vesicles in the cytoplasm.
The word autophagy is derived from Greek words “auto” meaning self and “phagy” meaning eating. Autophagy is a normal physiological process in the body that deals with destruction of cells in the body. It maintains homeostasis or normal functioning by protein degradation and turnover of the destroyed cell organelles for new cell formation. During cellular stress the process of Autophagy is upscaled and increased. Cellular stress is caused when there is deprivation of nutrients and/or growth factors. Thus Autophagy may provide an alternate source of intracellular building blocks and substrates that may generate energy to enable continuous cell survival.
In the context of disease, autophagy has been seen as an adaptive response to stress which promotes survival, whereas in other cases it appears to promote cell death and morbidity. In the extreme case of starvation, the breakdown of cellular components promotes cellular survival by maintaining cellular energy levels. Autophagy is constantly activated in normal cartilage but it is compromised with age and precedes cartilage cell death and structural damage. These results suggest autophagy is a normal protective process (chondroprotection) in the joint.
Autophagy allows the orderly degradation and recycling of cellular components. During this process, targeted cytoplasmic constituents are isolated from the rest of the cell within a double-membraned vesicle known as an autophagosome. Autophagy is constantly activated in normal cartilage but it is compromised with age and precedes cartilage cell death and structural damage. These results suggest autophagy is a normal protective process (chondroprotection) in the joint.
Macroautophagy (referred to hereafter as autophagy) is a genetically regulated and dynamic process associated with the formation of autophagosome, a double-membrane cytoplasmic vesicle that engulfs cellular components. The process of macroautophagy (referred to hereafter as autophagy), is generally characterized by the prominent formation of autophagic vesicles in the cytoplasm. In the past decades, studies of autophagy have been vastly expanded.
Autophagy is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering all aspects of autophagy. It is published by Landes Bioscience and the editor-in-chief is Daniel J. Klionsky. 