You need 4 years of college and then you need to apply to medical school and get accepted. Medical school is 4 years. Then you apply to a residency in Neurosurgery and after a … cceptance, there is an additional 7 years of specialty training in Neurosurgery. To be a hematologist, a medical degree from an accredited medical  school such as a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree, a  Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree, or a B … achelor of  Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS/MBChB) degree must be earned.
After the four years of medical school study required to complete a medical degree, a prospective neurosurgeon usually completes a one-year surgery internship then spends approximately six to eight years in a neurosurgery residency, training with experienced neurologists and neurosurgeons in a hospital. Becoming a neurosurgeon begins with a four-year bachelor's degree, four years of medical school, one year of internship and six to eight years of residency. There is no specific bachelor’s degree for neurosurgery, but a science degree that focuses on the study of the human body provides the needed credit hours.
A neurosurgeon has undergone many years of education and training. First, one must obtain a bachelor's degree which usually requires four year of college. Next comes four years of medical school. Then comes an internship in general surgery, which usually lasts one year. 
To be a neurosurgeon, a medical degree from an accredited medical  school such as a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree, a  Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree, or a B … achelor of  Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS/MBChB) degree must be earned. To be a hematologist
The steps in the progression include four years of studying as an undergraduate and earning a bachelor's degree. Next, prospective neurosurgeons will need to apply to and get accepted into medical school which will take another four years. The last portion of the process is a six year residency program. Neurosurgeon Job Description. Neurosurgeons are medical doctors who specialize in performing surgeries on the brain and spine to correct neurological problems. They diagnose and treat brain tumors, spinal injuries, and many other neurological issues.
After finishing medical school, graduates who wish to pursue a career in neurosurgery will need to spend one year as an intern in the field, and then complete another four or five years as a neurosurgery resident. Neurosurgeon Job Description. Neurosurgeons are medical doctors who specialize in performing surgeries on the brain and spine to correct neurological problems. They diagnose and treat brain tumors, spinal injuries, and many other neurological issues.
A neurosurgeon is a physician who has earned a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) or Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) medical degree. Before becoming a neurosurgeon, individuals pursing this field go to school for many years. This includes 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school, one year as a student surgeon, and 6 to 7 years training in a hospital as a student neurosurgeon. To be a hematologist, a medical degree from an accredited medical  school such as a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree, a  Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree, or a B … achelor of  Medicine/Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS/MBChB) degree must be earned.
Step 2: Attend Medical School. Aspiring neurosurgeons are required to earn a Doctor of Medicine by attending medical school. Medical school programs are traditionally somewhat inflexible, consisting of medical overview classes paired with experiential units (typically completed in the second half of the 4-year program). Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. While there is not a specific degree required for undergraduate study, aspiring neurosurgeons might choose to concentrate their coursework in advanced biological sciences to meet admission requirements for medical school.