Passport. A passport is required for ALL international travel. If you're traveling anywhere overseas, even to Canada, the Caribbean or Mexico, you need a passport to board an international flight and to enter any country. In general, your passport must be valid for at least six months after the date you enter a foreign country. 
For the passengers, no, it's a domestic flight. Be aware that there are some restrictions on plants and animals brought in so it almost feels landing in a foreign country as far as the rules are concerned. According to some airlines, they classify Hawaii as an international flight for scheduling and crew purposes. This is because it flies over international waters and like Guam and some Caribbean destinations, which technically still American, you have to fly out of the U.S. to get there. Report Abuse. No, it's not considered an international flight from the continental USA or Alaska. It costs more because it's an out-of-continent flight. Source(s): map, travel, experience.
In your case, the flight from Denver to Mexico will be the international flight. It's the that that terminates in the international city. You'll transfer in ORD as a domestic passenger and you'll have to go to the international departure terminal to catch your Mexico flight. Source(s): I work for a major airline.
Unless you buy two separate tickets the whole trip would be considered an international flight and for those you usually have to check in three hours ahead of the first flight, domestic or not. Even if you're flying two different airlines. If the flight is ticketed on 1 ticket with a connection @ SFO to a code/share or one that the airline interchanges baggage to, then the flight out of JFK would be international for check-in.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A domestic flight is a form of commercial flight within civil aviation where the departure and the arrival take place in the same country. Airports serving domestic flights only are known as domestic airports. Domestic flights are frequently, but not necessarily, non-stop flights. 
For the aerospace magazine, see Flight International. An international flight is a form of commercial flight within civil aviation where the departure and the arrival take place in different countries. Aviation technology developed during World War I and soon came the development of international commercial flights in what is known as the Golden Age of Aviation; there was a combination of aircraft types which included airships and airplanes.
Within US and Canada its $25, and they don't mention specifically that its only from the US to Canada, so I would assume that its both ways. To the best of my knowledge flights to/from Canada are considered domestic for all terms and purposes, so I see no reason why the luggage would be an exception. share | improve this answer. answered Aug 27 '12 at 17:51. littleadv. in North America flights across the Canadian and US border are rarely called international. But double check because occasionally, they are. When you see a list that includes Canada/US as one item and International as another, I would say that is very clear. Your bag will cost $25.
Bottom line, to answer your question fully you'd have to consider your ticket, routes, and how your airline treats that trip. But, sure, in most cases, the part of the flight that actually takes you over the border is the international part (but not always). Source(s): John W · 7 years ago. It's the that that terminates in the international city. You'll transfer in ORD as a domestic passenger and you'll have to go to the international departure terminal to catch your Mexico flight. Source(s): I work for a major airline.
The flight which is taking you next, out side the country is only the international flight. Does not matter from where ever air port you begin, if that certain flight is talking you overseas its and international. So in your case Chicago to Denver is not international since it is within US. It's the that that terminates in the international city. You'll transfer in ORD as a domestic passenger and you'll have to go to the international departure terminal to catch your Mexico flight. Source(s): I work for a major airline.