How much your Social Security disability benefit will be is based on your covered earnings -- the wages that you paid Social Security taxes on -- prior to becoming disabled. (Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) is the federal insurance program that provides benefits to qualified workers who can no longer work. To give you an idea of what you might receive, for 2015, the average SSDI benefit amount is $1,165 per month, but you can receive anywhere up to $2,663. If you're interested in how Social Security calculates your AIME and PIA, here's how.
If you’re younger than full retirement age, there is a limit to how much you can earn and still receive full Social Security benefits. If you’re younger than full retirement age during all of 2015, we must deduct $1 from your benefits for each $2 you earn above $15,720. Under this rule, you can get a full Social Security check for any whole month you’re retired, regardless of your yearly earnings.In 2015, a person younger than full retirement age for the entire year is considered retired if monthly earnings are $1,310 or less.
We use your total yearly earnings to figure your Social Security credits. The amount needed for a credit in 2015 is $1,220. You can earn a maximum of four credits for any year. The amount needed to earn one credit increases automatically each year when average wages increase. You must earn a certain number of credits to qualify for Social Security benefits. The number of credits you need depends on your age when you apply and the type of benefit application. No one needs more than 40 credits for any Social Security benefit.
Until you reach full retirement age, Social Security will subtract money from your retirement check if you exceed a certain amount of earned income for the year. For the year 2015, this limit on earned income is $15,720 ($1,310 per month). The amount goes up each year. If you are collecting Social Security retirement benefits before full retirement age, your benefits are reduced by $1 for every $2 you earn over the limit. But for every $3 you earn over that amount in any month, you will lose $1 in Social Security benefits. Beginning in the month you reach full retirement age, you become eligible to earn any amount without penalty.
Social Security Disability Benefits. If you’re getting disability benefits, you can earn up to $1,010 per month without losing your benefits as of 2012. If you are blind, the amount you can make increases to $1,690 a month before your benefits are terminated. You’re entitled to your Social Security benefits even if you’re earning a paycheck. However, there are limits to how much you can earn before your benefits are reduced or terminated. The Social Security Administration has income limits for all three benefit programs and for the Supplemental Security Income program.
If you will reach full retirement age in 2015, you may earn up to $3,490 per month without losing any of your benefits. But for every $3 you earn over that amount in any month, you will lose $1 in Social Security benefits. Beginning in the month you reach full retirement age, you become eligible to earn any amount without penalty.
During the year in which you reach full retirement age -- which ranges from age 65 to 67, depending on your birth year -- you can earn up to $41,400 before $1 of your Social Security benefits will be deducted for every $3 you earn above that threshold. However, the money isn't lost forever. For instance, there are limits on how much you can earn while collecting benefits, and if you exceed those limits, your Social Security benefits will get cut substantially. That's just one of the snares that could trip you up. Make sure you plan appropriately to avoid these six Social Security traps.
As of 2012, if you’re not at full retirement age, you can earn up to $14,640 per year without the SSA reducing your retirement or survivors benefits. Your benefits are reduced $1 for every $2 you make over this limit. You’re entitled to your Social Security benefits even if you’re earning a paycheck. However, there are limits to how much you can earn before your benefits are reduced or terminated. The Social Security Administration has income limits for all three benefit programs and for the Supplemental Security Income program.
The amount of money you will receive from Social Security on a monthly basis is unique for every individual. This is due to the fact that the Social Security Administration (SSA) uses a complex weighted formula in order to calculate benefits for each person, up to the maximum benefit of $2,663 (in 2015). 
How Work Affects Your Benefits Y ou can get Social Security retirement or survivors benefits and work at the same time. But, if you’re younger than full retirement age, and earn more than certain amounts, your benefits will be reduced. The amount that your benefits are reduced, however, isn’t truly lost. Under this rule, you can get a full Social Security check for any whole month you’re retired, regardless of your yearly earnings.In 2015, a person younger than full retirement age for the entire year is considered retired if monthly earnings are $1,310 or less.