Once you have memorized the algorithms and also understand the method I use, you can solve the cube in ABOUT 1-2 MINUTES WITH PRACTICE. Go here to see my Rubiks.com page with links to ALL my tutorials!! http://www.rubiks.com/Academy/3x3%204... This is the first step of the Tutorial for solving the cube. THE SECOND STEP IS ON MY CHANNEL PLAYLIST AND ALSO IN THE VIDEO RESPONSES SECTION OF THIS VIDEO.
Exhibition marks 40 years of Rubik's Cube. 3. Solve the white corners. With the white cross on the top face, you must then solve the white corner pieces. Corner pieces will have one white side plus two other colours. 4. Solve the middle layer, so the bottom two layers of your cube match in colour. 5. Solve the top layer. The first stage of this step is to try and get a yellow cross on the top face of your cube. Next, you should try and get all the yellow on the top face. 6. Position the yellow corners correctly. 
In my tutorial, I will teach you how to solve a Rubik's Cube (regular 3x3)using 7 steps, which I explain in detail. My videos are longer than others you may find, but I feel that by spending more time with you for each step, you will understand it better than if I rush through it like those other videos. Go here to see my Rubiks.com page with links to ALL my tutorials!! http://www.rubiks.com/Academy/3x3%204... This is the first step of the Tutorial for solving the cube. THE SECOND STEP IS ON MY CHANNEL PLAYLIST AND ALSO IN THE VIDEO RESPONSES SECTION OF THIS VIDEO.
So in this tutorial i will show you a beginners method that I used on how to solve the Rubik's cube and maby later i might teach you an advance method on how to solve it, but you will need to know how to solve it with the beginners method first before you move onto the advanced method. To get how to solve the Rubik's cube i will explain to you how this method solves it. Most people think you solve the cube face by face but that is wrong you are supposed to solve one face then layer by layer. the blue picture below shows the notation of moves that make up an algorithm.
3. Make a Cross on the Third Layer. Flip your Rubik's Cube over so yellow is down and white is up. In this step you will make a cross on the top using Move 2. You may have to repeat it a few times but you don't have to match up the sides yet.
Make a Cross on the Top Layer. If you have already solved the first layer, you can skip to Step 2. Otherwise, hold your Rubik's Cube with the yellow center piece facing up. Find the yellow & green piece and move it to the green side, the side that is green in the center. Twist the green side 1 or 2 quarter-turns to move the yellow & green piece to the top. Your Rubik's Cube should look like this: If the two colors don't match up, flip the yellow & green piece like this: Solve the other 3 sides the same way so you have a yellow cross on top.
In this video, I show you how to easily solve the original Rubik's Cube Puzzle. ALGORITHMS. ***First Layer***. White Cross. Flip Edge: F' U L' U'. Corners. White on Left: D' R' D R. White on Right: R' D' R. 
E-Mail*. In this step, the goal is to get the top face of the cube to have a cross. In the “after” picture below this is the blue side. You start out by facing a side of the cube that has a blue piece (or whatever your top color is) in the top layer in the front left position (refer to the “before” picture below). In this step, it is important to remember that the very center piece of each side of the cube doesn’t move, making it that side’s respective color. You must bring all of the other pieces with that color to that side. In the example below we bring the red/green piece to match with the red and green sides.
1 Solve the first layer corner along with its middle layer edge in one move. 2  Learn algorithms to orient the last layer corners in the five cases where two (3.a/b) algorithms are necessary. 3  Learn algorithms to permute the last layer edges in the two cases where no edge is correctly positioned. 1 Spend some time with your cube to learn how to move pieces around. 2  This is especially important when you are learning to solve the first layer. 3  Know the colors of your cube. 4  You must know which color is opposite which, and the order of the colors around each face.
I get it now, the Before on the left is the pattern you start with and then you follow the steps to the right to get a piece of the cross. Then continue on the other three sides to the left or right of the right side on the diagrahm. I used the first one twice then the second one once and the third one once. In this step, it is important to remember that the very center piece of each side of the cube doesn’t move, making it that side’s respective color. You must bring all of the other pieces with that color to that side. In the example below we bring the red/green piece to match with the red and green sides.