The history of patents and patent law is generally considered to have started with the Venetian Statute of 1474 and the 1624 English Statute of Monopolies. In England, grants in the form of letters patent were issued by the sovereign to inventors who petitioned and were approved: a grant of 1331 to John Kempe and his Company is the earliest authenticated instance of a royal grant made with the avowed purpose of instructing the English in a new industry.
Such description is the quid pro quo of the patent system; the public must receive meaningful disclosure in exchange for being excluded from practicing the invention for a limited period of time. [ Update: In fact, some argue, crankishly, that disclosure is the only purpose of patent law. But the patent “statute” is not isolated. The “law” is what legal rules are enforced in society, and that is a result of the actions of the courts and the legislature, in our system.
- The US Patent and Trademark Office was created as the result of the First Congress of the United States signing into law the Patent Act of 1790, which was the country’s first law in regards to patents. The US Patent and Trademark Office was also created in accordance to the United States Constitution. What is the Purpose of the US Patent and Trademark Office? – The US Patent and Trademark Office will prove to have quite the extensive list of responsibilities.
“The patent statute gives a right to exclude in return for disclosure. That’s it.”. But the patent “statute” is not isolated. The “law” is what legal rules are enforced in society, and that is a result of the actions of the courts and the legislature, in our system. Courts recognize the incentive effect as do legislators and other policy makers, and it is a common argument in favor of the patent sytem
Patents in the United States are governed by the Patent Act (35 U.S. Code), which established the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the USPTO). The most common type of patent is a utility patent. Patent Law in the United States. Patents have been in the news recently as Amazon.com and other Internet companies have used patents to obtain monopoly rights in certain inventions. Although many object to anyone having a monopoly on an idea or invention, such monopoly rights have always been a fundamental part of the patent system
To be entitled to a patent, an inventor must be the first and original inventor. Joint inventors can obtain a patent for a joint invention, but none of them can obtain a valid patent as a sole inventor. U.S. law requires that patent applications be filed in the name of and signed by the actual inventor or inventors. 
The English patent system evolved from its early medieval origins into the first modern patent system that recognised intellectual property in order to stimulate invention; this was the crucial legal foundation upon which the Industrial Revolution could emerge and flourish. In England, grants in the form of letters patent were issued by the sovereign to inventors who petitioned and were approved: a grant of 1331 to John Kempe and his Company is the earliest authenticated instance of a royal grant made with the avowed purpose of instructing the English in a new industry.
The procedure for granting patents, requirements placed on the patentee, and the extent of the exclusive rights vary widely between countries according to national laws and international agreements. Typically, however, a granted patent application must include one or more claims that define the invention. A patent may include many claims, each of which defines a specific property right. These claims must meet relevant patentability requirements, such as novelty, usefulness, and non-obviousness. A patent, being an exclusionary right, does not necessarily give the patent owner the right to exploit the invention subject to the patent. For example, many inventions are improvements of prior inventions that may still be covered by someone else's patent.
A patent (/ˈpaetənt/ ˈpætənt /or/) ˈpeɪtənt is a set of exclusive rights granted by a sovereign state to an inventor or assignee for a limited period of time in exchange for detailed public disclosure of an. Invention an invention is a solution to a specific technological problem and is a product or a. process A patent, being an exclusionary right, does not necessarily give the patent owner the right to exploit the invention subject to the patent. For example, many inventions are improvements of prior inventions that may still be covered by someone else's patent.