Report Abuse. You have the answer in your question-all groupings of flight birds are generally flocks (other then geese-then their a gaggle). But bald eagles are usually lone hunters and the only time you see more then one is for mating or fighting. Roped · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Best Answer: A group of eagles is called an aerie, so an aerie of eagles. I assume this applies to bald eagles as well as normal eagles. Hope this helps! Source(s): 5th grade biology, our teacher gave us this packet 10 pages long with 'collective nouns'. 
Eagles don't live in groups. But you usually see them in a pair. Most eagles have mates for life. But if you see 2 bald eagles and 1 or more golden eagles in the same nest, th … e golden eagle is probably just a young bald eagle. Lots of people mistake a young bald eagle for a golden eagle. Why u may ask well because a monkey is like one person and so the eagle cover up the monkey.. Srry if u dont get it.. hehe ------------------------------------------- A gro … up of bald eagles is called a convocation, not a monkey.
The bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) is a member of the sea and fish eagle group. Its closest relatives, similar in appearance and habit, are found in Africa and Asia. Bald eagles live along the coast as well as by major lakes and rivers. 
Answer: convocation, brood, aerie. A group of eagle is called a convocation, brood, aerie. Eagles are large birds of prey which are members of the bird family Accipitridae, and belong to several genera which are not necessarily closely related to each other. Most of the more than 60 species occur in Eurasia and Africa. 
Bald Eagles mate for life and have a tendancy to stay as a family rather than join others of their own kind. Like most animas and birds they have their own marked territory in … which they hunt for food. One of the parents will stay at the nest where there are young ones while the other is out hunting. Sometimes, however, bald eagles will group together around plentiful food sources, such as salmon runs. Why u may ask well because a monkey is like one person and so the eagle cover up the monkey.. Srry if u dont get it.. hehe ------------------------------------------- A gro … up of bald eagles is called a convocation, not a monkey. 1 person found this useful.
The bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus, from Greek hali sea, aiētos  eagle , leuco white, cephalos head) is a bird of prey found in North America. The bald eagle is a sacred bird in some North American cultures, and its feathers, like those of the golden eagle, are central to many religious and spiritual customs among Native Americans. Eagles are considered spiritual messengers between gods and humans by some cultures.
Bald Eagles belong to a group called fishing eagles.. Golden Eagles are more closely related to hawks called buteos, a group which includes the Red-tailed Hawk. But Golden Eagles look a lot like immature Bald Eagles, from their huge size and 80-inch wingspan to their dark plumage. 