Stress or tissue injury is thought to be the cause of simple canker sores. Certain foods -- including citrus or acidic fruits and vegetables (such as lemons, oranges, pineapples, apples, figs, tomatoes, and strawberries) -- can trigger a canker sore or make the problem worse. A. Canker sores are small, shallow ulcers that appear in the mouth and often make eating and talking uncomfortable. There are two types of canker sores 1  : Simple canker sores. 2  These may appear three or four times a year and last up to a week. 3  They typically occur in people between 10 and 20 years of age.
Aphthous stomatitis (also termed recurrent aphthous stomatitis, recurring oral aphthae or recurrent aphthous ulceration; from Greek: ἄφθα aphtha, mouth ulcer) is a common condition characterized by the repeated formation of benign and non-contagious mouth ulcers (aphthae) in otherwise healthy individuals. 
Canker sore is the name for a painful, open sore in the mouth that is medically known as aphthous ulcer. The sores are not contagious and are small, shallow lesions that develop on the soft tissues in the mouth and gums. Canker sores are more common in women than men. Most commonly, canker sores first appear between the ages of 10 and 40. Canker sores may result from mouth injury, viral infections, hormonal shifts, an abnormal immune system, or a diet low in nutrients.
1 Canker sores are small, painful ulcers on the inside of the mouth, tongue, lips, or throat. 2  Symptoms of canker sores include small, painful, crater-like ulcers. 3  See a doctor if canker sores are accompanied by fever, last more than three weeks, or the affected individual has difficulty swallowing. 1 Symptoms of canker sores include small, painful, crater-like ulcers. 2
Canker Sore Overview. Canker sores, also known as aphthous ulcers, are among the most common causes of painful sores in the mouth. 1  The classic lesion is a small (less than 1 centimeter) oval to round ulcer with a erythematous (red) border. 2  They occur on the mucous membranes inside the mouth. 
You may have a canker sore if you have: 1  A painful sore or sores inside your mouth -- on the tongue, on the soft palate (the back portion of the roof of your mouth), or inside your cheeks. A. Canker sores are small, shallow ulcers that appear in the mouth and often make eating and talking uncomfortable. There are two types of canker sores 1  : Simple canker sores. 2  These may appear three or four times a year and last up to a week. 3  They typically occur in people between 10 and 20 years of age.
Canker sores facts. 1  Canker sores are small, painful ulcers on the inside of the mouth, tongue, lips, or throat. 2  Symptoms of canker sores include small, painful, crater-like ulcers. 3  See a doctor if canker sores are accompanied by fever, last more than three weeks, or the affected individual has difficulty swallowing. 1 Symptoms of canker sores include small, painful, crater-like ulcers. 2
Overview. A canker sore (aphthous ulcer) is a mouth ulcer or sore that is open and painful. They are the most common type of mouth ulcer. Some people notice them on the inside of their lip or cheek. They are usually white or yellowish and surrounded by red, inflamed soft tissue. 
Unlike canker sores, cold sores are caused by a virus and are extremely contagious. Also, cold sores typically appear outside the mouth -- usually under the nose, around the lips, or under the chin -- while canker sores occur inside the mouth. A. Canker sores are small, shallow ulcers that appear in the mouth and often make eating and talking uncomfortable. There are two types of canker sores 1  : Simple canker sores. 2  These may appear three or four times a year and last up to a week. 3  They typically occur in people between 10 and 20 years of age.
1 A painful sore or sores inside your mouth -- on the tongue, on the soft palate (the back portion of the roof of your mouth), or inside your cheeks. 2  A tingling or burning sensation before the sores appear. 3  Sores in your mouth that are round, white or gray, with a red edge or border. A. Canker sores are small, shallow ulcers that appear in the mouth and often make eating and talking uncomfortable. There are two types of canker sores 1  : Simple canker sores. 2  These may appear three or four times a year and last up to a week. 3  They typically occur in people between 10 and 20 years of age.