An individual with complete absence of melanin is called an albino. One with only a small amount of melanin is described as albinoid. People with albinism are very pale with fair hair and very light eyes. In some people, the eyes appear red or purple, depending on the amount of pigment. This can happen because the iris actually has very little color. The eyes appear pink or red because the blood vessels inside of the eye show through the iris. It is characterized by a deficit in the production in melanin and by the partial or complete absence of pigment in the skin, hair and eyes. This hereditary disease can be found in humans (affecting all races), mammals, birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians.
Definition. Albinism includes a group of inherited disorders that are characterized by little or no production of the pigment melanin. The type and amount of melanin your body produces determines the color of your skin, hair and eyes. 
Introduction. Albinism affects the production of melanin, the pigment that colours skin, hair and eyes. People with albinism have a reduced amount of melanin or no melanin at all, which can cause characteristic signs and symptoms often obvious from birth.
Knowledge center. Albinism is a genetic condition also called achromia, achromasia, or achromatosis. It is characterized by a deficit in the production in melanin and by the partial or complete absence of pigment in the skin, hair and eyes. This hereditary disease can be found in humans (affecting all races), mammals, birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians.
Definition. Albinism is an inherited condition present at birth, characterized by a lack of pigment that normally gives color to the skin, hair, and eyes. Many types of albinism exist, all of which involve lack of pigment in varying degrees. albinism. a hereditary disorder, usually transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait, in which there is partial or total absence of pigment in the skin, hair, and eyes (oculocutaneous albinism) or in the eyes alone (ocular albinism), caused by defective or absent function of the enzyme tyrosinase.
Albinism is an inherited genetic condition that reduces the amount of melanin pigment formed in the skin, hair and/or eyes. Albinism occurs in all racial and ethnic groups throughout the world. 
Albinism is caused by a mutation in one of several genes. Each of these genes provides instructions for making one of several proteins involved in the production of melanin. Melanin is produced by cells called melanocytes, which are found in your skin and eyes. Types of albinism, based mainly on which mutated gene caused the disorder, include: Oculocutaneous albinism. Oculocutaneous (ok-u-low-ku-TAY-nee-us) albinism is caused by a mutation in one of four genes. People with oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) type 1 have milky white skin, white hair and blue eyes at birth.
Albinism is caused by a defect in one of several genes that produce or distribute melanin (natural pigment). The defect may result in the absence of melanin production, or a reduced amount of melanin production. Chediak-Higashi Syndrome. Chediak-Higashi syndrome is another rare form of albinism that is caused by a defect in the LYST gene. It produces symptoms similar to OCA, but may not affect all areas of the skin. The hair is usually brown or blond with a silvery sheen, and the skin is usually creamy white to grayish.
Albinism is a rare group of genetic disorders that cause the skin, hair, or eyes to have little or no color. Albinism is also associated with vision problems. According to the National Organization for Albinism and Hypopigmentation (NOAH), approximately one in 17,000 people have a form of albinism. (NOAH). Chediak-Higashi Syndrome. Chediak-Higashi syndrome is another rare form of albinism that is caused by a defect in the LYST gene. It produces symptoms similar to OCA, but may not affect all areas of the skin. The hair is usually brown or blond with a silvery sheen, and the skin is usually creamy white to grayish.
1 Type 1 albinism: This form of albinism is characterized by almost no pigmentation and is caused by a defect in a gene for an enzyme * that makes pigment. 2  Type 2 albinism: People with Type 2 albinism usually have some pigmentation; this type is caused by a defect in a gene called the P gene. Albinism (AL-bi-niz-im) is a disorder that occurs when a person inherits various genes * that are defective in their ability to make the pigment melanin (MEL-a-nin). Melanin is the main substance that determines a person's skin, hair, and eye color.