Commonly called hardy gloxinia, Incarvillea delavayi charms gardeners with its trumpet-shaped lavender flowers and attractive, pinnate foliage. It thrives within Sunset's Climate Zones 2 through 24, so it will grow virtually anywhere if provided with deep, well-draining soil and ample water. 
Lori Skulski. I think the leaves on this plant suggest that it is Incarvillea delavayi rather than I. mairei, which has simple, more-or-less ovate leaves. Sure looks like you're right, Lori-thanks. I've shuffled my pages around accordingly. Ruby.
Growing Incarvillea delavayi. Incarvillea delavayi is a lovely tuberous plant with gloxinia like flowers in white or deep pink. Plant the root stock during April-May in well prepared soil (about a spade deep) in a sunny position
Incarvillea 'Snowtop'. Incarvillea Description and Cultural Information. Incarvillea delavayi, hardy gloxinia. 12 - 24. Hardy gloxinia is a beautiful plant with low growing clumps of glossy, deeply divided leaves from which arise upright stalks carrying rich rosy-red, trumpet shaped flowers. 'Alba' and 'Snowtop' have pure white flowers. 
Incarvillea Delavayi bulbs for sale. Incarvillea Delavayi is a hardy perennial that has beautiful exotic looking mauve flowers with a fantastic fern-like foliage. It can be planted in pots or straight into your garden. It needs a nice well-drained, sunny or partial-shaded position
Plant number: 1.290.050. This plant features large, bright-pink trumpet flowers, similar in effect to a Gloxinia. Deeply-cut green foliage appears at the base, with stems rising higher bearing clusters of blossoms. Not the easiest plant to succeed with, particularly in regions with hot, humid summers. Alphabetical list of all 3,000+ perennials here. This plant features large, bright-pink trumpet flowers, similar in effect to a Gloxinia. Deeply-cut green foliage appears at the base, with stems rising higher bearing clusters of blossoms.
Incarvillea delavayi. (BIGNONIACEAE) hardy gloxinia. Some common names for these seldom-grown, showy perennials include Hardy Gloxinia and Chinese Trumpet Flower. A favorite in old English gardens, these hardy and nearly hardy perennials are native to high elevations in India, Tibet, China and Turkestan. Incarvillea is a beautiful plant with low growing clumps of glossy, deeply divided leaves from which arise 12 - 24 inch leafless stems topped by clusters of flowers, each of which may be as much as 3 inches across.