Olefin metathesis was first commercialized in petroleum reformation for the synthesis of higher olefins from the products (alpha-olefins) from the Shell higher olefin process (SHOP) under high pressure and high temperatures. Modern catalysts can be used for a variety of specialized organic compounds and monomers. The three principal products C9, C10 and C11 are found in a 1:2:1 regardless of conversion. The same ratio is found with the higher oligomers. Chauvin also explained how the carbene forms in the first place: by alpha-hydride elimination from a carbon metal single bond.
Save. A rug made with the synthetic fiber olefin has the appearance of any other rug. The difference lies in its many desirable qualities.The olefin fiber has been created or manufactured to either eliminate problems associated with other fibers or increase the favorable attributes found with other materials. 
Olefin fiber is a generic description that covers thermoplastic fibers derived from olefins, predominately aliphatic hydrocarbons. Olefins are products of the polymerization of propylene and ethylene gases. Polypropylene (PP) and polyethylene (PE) are the two most common members of the family. 
Olefin fibers (polypropylene) are found in a large number of rugs because they are easy to manufacture, can be manufactured cheaply, provide good durability, can be cleaned with all carpet cleaning methods, and can be cleaned with almost any cleaning chemistry. Examine area rug tags and identify the fiber with the highest percentage of fiber content. Generally, the primary fiber is listed first, but use caution when the blend is near equivalent such as a 60-40 blend. In these cases, you should clean for both types of fiber.
Olefin metathesis is an organic reaction that entails the redistribution of fragments of alkenes (olefins) by the scission and regeneration of carbon-carbon double bonds. Catalysts for this reaction have evolved rapidly for the past few decades. The three principal products C9, C10 and C11 are found in a 1:2:1 regardless of conversion. The same ratio is found with the higher oligomers. Chauvin also explained how the carbene forms in the first place: by alpha-hydride elimination from a carbon metal single bond.
Olefin has a number of advantages when used in rugs. Olefin is an extremely durable synthetic material that is stain and soil resistant. 
In organic chemistry, an alkene is an unsaturated hydrocarbon that contains at least one carbon –carbon double bond. Alkene, olefin, and olefine are used often interchangeably (see nomenclature section below). Acyclic alkenes, with only one double bond and no other functional groups, known as mono-enes, form a homologous series of hydrocarbons with the general formula C n H 2n. Like a single covalent bond, double bonds can be described in terms of overlapping atomic orbitals, except that, unlike a single bond (which consists of a single sigma bond), a carbon–carbon double bond consists of one sigma bond and one pi bond.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. Olefin, also known as polypropylene or polyethylene, is a long-chain polymer synthetic fiber. It is created when ethylene and/or propylene gases are polymerized under very specific conditions. The fiber was first manufactured in the late 1950s, and has myriad applications in manufacturing, household products, and clothing. There are several benefits of using olefin. It is very tough and hard wearing, colorfast, and stain resistant. The lightweight material — it has the lightest “specific gravity ” of any other fabric — dries quickly and wicks sweat and water from the skin.
Olefin Carpet. Olefin is an oil-loving fiber made from synthetic polypropylene. It is an inexpensive synthetic fiber and is commonly found in commercial settings, such as office areas. Olefin is popular due to its ability to resist staining. It is solution dyed, meaning the dye is consistent throughout the fiber, so there are no dye sites for other dyes to attack.
Source. Although olefin sulfonate is found in many synthetically created cosmetics and soaps, it naturally occurs in some products. Olefin sulfonate is a component of both coconut oil and petroleum and can be extracted from these products. Use. Olefin sulfonate is a surfactant. This means that it helps oily molecules and compounds dissolve in water. Because the skin often has oil on its surface, olefin sulfonate is often included in many soaps, cosmetic products and detergents to enable the other chemicals to be more effective.