Raw virgin coconut oil is best used in low temperature cooking or baking. Refined coconut oil has a higher smoke point and less of a coconut flavor, but has less health benefits than raw coconut oil. Refined coconut oil is still a good option for occasional high heat cooking like frying. 1. Ghee (Clarified Butter). Ghee is probably my favorite cooking oil. It was traditionally used in India for ayurvedic cooking. I use it the most because it has wonderful health benefits (only if you get grassfed ghee) and has a rather high smoke point.
Cooking oil is plant, animal, or synthetic fat used in frying, baking, and other types of cooking. It is also used in food preparation and flavouring not involving heat, such as salad dressings and bread dips, and in this sense might be more accurately termed edible oil. Heating an oil changes its characteristics. Oils that are healthy at room temperature can become unhealthy when heated above certain temperatures. When choosing a cooking oil, it is important to match the oil's heat tolerance with the cooking method.
Palm oil is a great healthy option for high heat cooking. It is made from the palm fruit which is native to africa. There has been a lot of controversy surrounding palm oil because many palm oil plantations have contributed to the decimation of the rainforest. 1. Ghee (Clarified Butter). Ghee is probably my favorite cooking oil. It was traditionally used in India for ayurvedic cooking. I use it the most because it has wonderful health benefits (only if you get grassfed ghee) and has a rather high smoke point.
There is a wide variety of cooking oils from plant sources such as olive oil, palm oil, soybean oil, canola oil (rapeseed oil), corn oil, peanut oil and other vegetable oils, as well as animal-based oils like butter and lard. Heating an oil changes its characteristics. Oils that are healthy at room temperature can become unhealthy when heated above certain temperatures. When choosing a cooking oil, it is important to match the oil's heat tolerance with the cooking method.
The problem with soybean oil, cottonseed oil, corn oil, safflower oil, and other similar vegetable oils is that they are mostly composed of polyunsaturated fats (the most highly reactive type of fat) which leaves them prone to oxidation and free radical production when exposed to heat and light. My choices for top healthy cooking oils that I use 1  : Virgin Coconut Oil (very stable at med-high temps and healthy fats). 2  Extra Virgin Olive Oil (only for low temp cooking). 3  Real Butter (grass fed butter is actually healthy and contains important nutrients like vitamin K2, omega-3's, and CLA.
(HealthCastle.com) All manufacturers claim their own cooking oil is the best! Canola oil, olive oil, sunflower oil, butter, margarine, and virgin coconut oil all have their supporters. I'm often asked to compare cooking oils. Every time I speak about nutrition in public, the question about cooking oil for home use is brought up. 
A. Relative to other oils, canola (made from the seeds of a yellow-flowered plant) and olive oils are rich in monounsaturated fats—the kind that help reduce “unhealthy” LDL cholesterol and boost “healthy” HDL cholesterol. You're not doing yourself any favors using a non-stick pan to avoid oil. Coconut oil is a healthy oil to cook with and is heat stable, as is good quality organic peanut oil. Olive oil is fine raw, in salad dressing or for dipping, but is not heat stable. Eat as much organic food as you can afford
Olive oil is a heart healthy fat that that contains beneficial antioxidants and has also been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties. It is best used for cold food (like salad dressing or drizzling over foods), but can be used in some low-heat cooking. 1. Ghee (Clarified Butter). Ghee is probably my favorite cooking oil. It was traditionally used in India for ayurvedic cooking. I use it the most because it has wonderful health benefits (only if you get grassfed ghee) and has a rather high smoke point.
Coconut oil is the most healthy oil out there not just for cooking but for over 50 other things. Coconut oil got a bad rap years ago when some food nazis complained about the movie theater popcorn and as it turned out there is no better oil for popcorn to be popped in. 