3M™ Thermally Conductive Epoxy Adhesive TC-2707 is a thermally conductive 2-part epoxy using aluminum metal fillers for good thermal conductivity with high adhesion. 1  High adhesive strength. 
Polytec TC 304 is a single component, thermally conductive epoxy with excellent thermal conductivity. It was designed for all applications where heat transfer is essential (heat-sinking, aluminum or ceramic packaging etc.). Polytec TC 304 has a convenient long pot and shelf life. Polytec TC 437 is a two-component, thermally conductive electrically insulating epoxy which can be cured at room temperature within 16 hours. Typically applications include attaching heat sinks, thermally conductive underfill, thermistor potting, die attach and heat management for power semiconductor devices.
Technetium-95, with a half-life of 61 days, is used as a radioactive tracer. Technetium-99, has a very long half-life (2.11 X 10 5 years) and decays almost entirely by beta decay with no gamma rays. It is used as for equipment calibration. Technetium is a rare, silver-gray metal that tarnishes slowly in moist air. In powder form, it burns in oxygen to the heptoxide (Tc 2 O 7). Technetium dissolves in nitric acid and concentrated sulfuric acid, but is not soluble in hydrochloric acid of any strength.
Polytec TC 301 is a standard single component, thermally conductive epoxy with excellent thermal conductivity. It was designed for all applications where heat transfer is essential (heat-sinking, aluminum or ceramic packaging). Polytec TC 437 is a two-component, thermally conductive electrically insulating epoxy which can be cured at room temperature within 16 hours. Typically applications include attaching heat sinks, thermally conductive underfill, thermistor potting, die attach and heat management for power semiconductor devices.
PRODUCT DESCRIPTION. Shin-Etsu Chemical’s TC-SAS thermal conductive tape is a non-acryl based, adhesive, double sided thermal tape that offers superior thermal conductivity, peeling and high adhesion strength properties. 1 Exhibit excellent thermal stability, since the base chemistry is silicone. 2  Additional advantages of Shin-Etsu Chemical’s TC-SAS product offering are excellent electrical isolation, strong adhesion strength, and easy to apply and remove for rework.
Shin-Etsu Chemical’s TC-SAS product offering is a non-acryl based, adhesive, double sided thermal tape that offers: 1  Superior thermal conductivity with peeling and high adhesion strength properties compared to other acryl based adhesive tapes. 2  Exhibit excellent thermal stability, since the base chemistry is silicone. 1 Exhibit excellent thermal stability, since the base chemistry is silicone. 2  Additional advantages of Shin-Etsu Chemical’s TC-SAS product offering are excellent electrical isolation, strong adhesion strength, and easy to apply and remove for rework.
Polytec TC 417 is a two component, thermally conductive, electrically insulating epoxy. It is used in various thermal management applications, like potting of large volumes. It has an excellent chemical and moisture resistance. It has an excellent adhesion to glass, metal, ceramic, FR4 and most plastics. Polytec TC 437 is a two-component, thermally conductive electrically insulating epoxy which can be cured at room temperature within 16 hours. Typically applications include attaching heat sinks, thermally conductive underfill, thermistor potting, die attach and heat management for power semiconductor devices.
(6) Storage and Shelf Life The shelf life of 3M™ Thermally Conductive Epoxy Adhesive TC-2810 is 12 months from the date of manufacture when stored in original cartons at 21°C (70°F) and 50% relative humidity. The fillets are formed as the epoxy squeezes out past the side edges. Fillets can add strength to the assembly. 3M™ Thermally Conductive Epoxy TC-2810 is supplied in dual syringe plastic duo-pak cartridges as part of the 3M™ EPX™ Applicator System. The duo-pak cartridges are supplied in a 37 ml configuration.