ROSEMARY Overview Information. Rosemary is an herb. Oil is extracted from the leaf and used to make medicine. Rosemary is used for digestion problems, including heartburn, intestinal gas (flatulence), liver and gallbladder complaints, and loss of appetite. It is also used for gout, cough, headache, high blood pressure, and reducing age-related memory loss.
Rosemary has been used for thousands of years as a savory spice, food preservative, in cosmetics and hair products, and as an herbal medicine for a variety of health disorders. Until now however, the exact chemical pathways involved in its beneficial effects have remained unknown. That’s where rosemary extract is significantly different. It has a longer life span of antioxidant activity. Not only that, it contains more than two dozen antioxidants, including carnosic acid, one of the only antioxidants that deactivates free radicals through a multilevel cascade approach.
Rosemary illustration from an Italian herbal, circa 1500. Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) essential oil. Rosemary is an aromatic evergreen shrub that has leaves similar to hemlock needles. The leaves are used as a flavoring in foods such as stuffings and roast lamb, pork, chicken and turkey. It is native to the Mediterranean and Asia, but is reasonably hardy in cool climates. It can withstand droughts, surviving a severe lack of water for lengthy periods.
Add to wish list. Click image to view enlarged. Rosemary Oleoresin Extract (ROE) - Hexane Free. Rosemary Oleoresin, also known as Rosemary Oil Extract or ROE is an oil soluble, natural extract of the leaves of the rosemary plant used to retard rancidity in natural oils. Its potent antioxidant properties are attributed in large part to carnosic acid, one of its major constituents. 
Although rosemary extract has been used commercially as an antimicrobial food preservative for years, now we know for certain that it also has a lot to offer as a nutritional supplement, especially in the prevention of some types of cancer, allergies, and the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. That’s where rosemary extract is significantly different. It has a longer life span of antioxidant activity. Not only that, it contains more than two dozen antioxidants, including carnosic acid, one of the only antioxidants that deactivates free radicals through a multilevel cascade approach.
Aside from its extract form, rosemary is used in cooking as a fresh or dried herb. Photo Credit rosemary image by Denis Plaster from Fotolia.com. Although the terms essential oil and extract are sometimes used interchangeably, they technically have different meanings. Rosemary provides your body with antioxidants when ingested, as in the case of rosemary extract. Antioxidants fight free radicals, which many experts believe are responsible for cancer and other diseases.
Rosemary extract is obtained from rosemary herbs (scientific name is Rosmarinus officinalis Linn.). This herb belongs to the mint family and is native to the Mediterranean coastlines. Now, it is found in all parts of the world and is a common plant of our house gardens. Preparation of rosemary extract is a very simple process and can be done at home. For this, you will require fresh rosemary needles, 80-proof vodka and a clean glass jar with a tight fitting lid. Pluck the rosemary needles early in the morning from its plants and separate them from its stem.
Rosmarinus officinalis, commonly known as rosemary, is a woody, perennial herb with fragrant, evergreen, needle-like leaves and white, pink, purple, or blue flowers, native to the Mediterranean region. The leaves are used as a flavoring in foods such as stuffings and roast lamb, pork, chicken and turkey. It is native to the Mediterranean and Asia, but is reasonably hardy in cool climates. It can withstand droughts, surviving a severe lack of water for lengthy periods.
Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) is a fragrant evergreen herb native to the Mediterranean. It is used as a culinary condiment, to make bodily perfumes, and for its potential health benefits. The herb not only tastes good in culinary dishes such as rosemary chicken and lamb, but it is also a good source of iron, calcium, and vitamin B6. Rosemary is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae along with many other herbs, such as oregano, thyme, basil, and lavender. The name rosemary derives from the Latin ros meaning dew and marinus meaning sea - sea dew.. The herb has been hailed since ancient times for its medicinal properties.
The extract is from rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis Linn .), a common household plant that has grown in the Alps since the Middle Ages, and is now found throughout the world. That’s where rosemary extract is significantly different. It has a longer life span of antioxidant activity. Not only that, it contains more than two dozen antioxidants, including carnosic acid, one of the only antioxidants that deactivates free radicals through a multilevel cascade approach.