Child Support After Remarriage. The amount of child support should not change after a spouse remarries as child support is calculated based on the non-custodial parent’s income and not on the household income of the custodial spouse. Recent legislation was passed that increased the amount of child support that a non-custodial parent now has to pay in the state of Texas. Now, the non-custodial parent has to pay up to a percentage of all of his resources up to $7,500 per month rather than the previous $6,000.
This is due to the fact that the law does not want a spouse paying spousal support to be responsible for not only supporting the ex-spouse but also the new spouse as well. However, a spousal support payment that is contractual can still exist after the ex-spouse who is receiving the support remarries. Recent legislation was passed that increased the amount of child support that a non-custodial parent now has to pay in the state of Texas. Now, the non-custodial parent has to pay up to a percentage of all of his resources up to $7,500 per month rather than the previous $6,000.
Spousal Support. There is little ambiguity around issues of spousal support and remarriage. In cases where spousal support was awarded as part of a divorce, it is usually only given temporarily. That support stops upon remarriage of the recipient spouse or registration in a new domestic partnership.
After a divorce, one party may decide to cohabit or remarry. As a San Diego divorce attorney, when this occurs, clients (or former clients) ask questions about the impact of cohabitation or remarriage on child support and spousal support. 
Spousal Support After Remarriage. Spousal support is usually given to an ex-spouse in Texas if that spouse cannot support himself or herself and is use to a specific standard of living that he or she enjoyed in the marriage. Recent legislation was passed that increased the amount of child support that a non-custodial parent now has to pay in the state of Texas. Now, the non-custodial parent has to pay up to a percentage of all of his resources up to $7,500 per month rather than the previous $6,000.
Alimony, also called “spousal support” in California, usually takes the form of monthly payments from one ex-spouse to the other, either for a specific period of time or until certain events occur. Also, the spouse paying alimony (the “paying spouse”) will likely want to end alimony payments once the ex has a new spouse in the picture. This article explains how the remarriage or cohabitation of a supported spouse affects alimony in California.
Spousal support (or “alimony” as it is called in the USA or “maintenance” as it is termed in the UK) is money paid by one spouse to another after separation to contribute to the other spouse’s living expenses. The 1968 Divorce Act put into effect a gender-neutral set of rules relating to spousal support. In order for a court to vary [change] or terminate a spousal support obligation, it must be satisfied that a change in the condition, means, needs, and other circumstances of either spouse has occurred since the making of the order (s. 17 Divorce Act). Thus, each case must be determined on its specific facts.
When a supported spouse gets remarried, alimony ends automatically. However, if a supported spouse is simply living with someone else, or has an increase in income, the paying spouse needs a court order to lower or end alimony payments. Also, the spouse paying alimony (the “paying spouse”) will likely want to end alimony payments once the ex has a new spouse in the picture. This article explains how the remarriage or cohabitation of a supported spouse affects alimony in California.
Spousal support would end after remarriage but I am sure many will wait to remarry until after they get their last payment since it's basically free money or they will remarry & not tell anyone at that point. Mary in Camden, MI PS~ Yes, some women have been ordered to pay spousal support. Once the other person remarries, then you're not obligated to pay alimony anymore. Yes, women have been ordered to pay alimony in some cases as well. The best way to avoid alimony is with pre-nups or the couple has a mutual divorce agreement.
On a variation application by John, the range for spousal support would be reduced, under the without child support formula, from the initial $3,125 to $4,167 (capped at $4,046) per month, down to $2,500 to $3,333 (capped at $3,216) per month. On a variation or review under the with child support formula, Alice’s increase in income would reduce the range for spousal support, from the original $474 to $1,025, down to $52 to $741