MELD is a numerical scale used for adult liver transplant candidates. The range is from 6 (less ill) to 40 (gravely ill). The individual score determines how urgently a patient needs a liver transplant within the next three months. As a patient’s MELD score increases, the priority to receive a liver transplant increases. If a patient’s condition improves, and the MELD score decreases, the priority to receive a liver transplant decreases.
In order to distribute this scarce resource most fairly, liver patients are ranked on the waiting list according to the severity of their illness. The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score is based on three specific laboratory tests: bilirubin, INR, and serum creatinine. The MELD score ranges from 4 to 40 and is used to rank patients on the waiting list. Patients with higher MELD scores get first priority when a liver becomes available. Once the medical team and patient have chosen the path of transplantation for treatment, the patient will receive a thorough evaluation from the liver transplant team, which includes transplant hepatologists, transplant surgeons, transplant nurses, financial counselors, social workers, and dietitians.
Currently, the average MELD score for a patient undergoing a liver transplant is 20 nationally. The average MELD score for liver transplant patients in our region varies from 26-33, depending on blood type. The average waiting time for a patient to receive a liver in our region, once a patient is placed on the UNOS waiting list, is 12-36 months. As a patient’s MELD score increases, the priority to receive a liver transplant increases. If a patient’s condition improves, and the MELD score decreases, the priority to receive a liver transplant decreases.
Liver Transplant Surgery. Model for end-stage liver disease, also known as the MELD score, is the most commonly discussed topic when meeting with our liver transplant waiting list patients. Discussing the MELD score is the most anxiety provoking part of any conversation that we have with our patients. Of interest, MELD scores of 15 or less have improved survival and only a 2-6% chance of dying. Many liver transplant programs, based on these survival statistics, preferred not to place patients on the active liver waiting list until there MELD score is 15 or greater.
The waiting time for a liver transplant depends on a number of factors, including organ availability, organ matching and the sickness of a patient. Each patient is given a Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score. Pediatric patients receive a Pediatric End-Stage Liver Disease (PELD) score. This score is used by the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) to prioritize organ allocation.
For liver transplants, MELD score is used to prioritize patients according to medical need. While you are awaiting a liver transplant, care for your liver disease will continue under Jefferson hepatologists in collaboration with the Liver Transplant team and your referring physician. This system is termed the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease, or MELD. Previously, patients on the liver transplant waiting list were prioritized to receive a liver transplant according to their status..
Determining your position on the waiting list. Doctors use results of liver function tests and other factors to determine your prognosis and your place on the transplant waiting list. Your prognosis is sometimes called your Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score. The higher your MELD score, the more dire your situation. If you have chronic liver failure, your doctor may refer you to a transplant center to undergo evaluation for liver transplant. The transplant center team conducts a wide variety of tests and procedures to determine whether to place your name on the waiting list for a new liver.
MELD Score. MELD is a numerical scale, ranging from 6 (you are less sick) to 40 (you are gravely sick), used for liver transplant candidates age 12 and older. The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD). MELD is a numerical scale, ranging from 6 (you are less sick) to 40 (you are gravely sick), used for liver transplant candidates age 12 and older. The score is based on how urgently you will need a liver transplant within the next three months. The number is calculated by a formula using three routine lab test results: bilirubin, INR and creatinine