Liver function tests (LFTs or LFs) are groups of blood tests that give information about the state of a patient's liver. These tests include prothrombin time (PT/INR), aPTT, albumin, bilirubin (direct and indirect), and others. Liver transaminases (AST or SGOT and ALT or SGPT) are useful biomarkers of liver injury in a patient with some degree of intact liver function. 
Normal blood test results for typical liver function tests include: 1  ALT. 7 to 55 units per liter (U/L). 2  AST. 8 to 48 U/L. 3  ALP. 45 to 115 U/L. 4  Albumin. 5  3.5 to 5.0 grams per deciliter (g/dL). 6  Total protein. 7  6.3 to 7.9 g/dL. 8  Bilirubin. 9  0.1 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). 
Additional tests that may be used to evaluate liver function include 2 1  : Gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT): This test measures the amount of the enzyme GGT in the blood. 2  Higher than normal levels may indicate liver or bile duct injury. Liver function tests (also known as LFTs or LFs) include liver enzyme readings. A single blood sample may include liver function testing for the following 1 1  : Alanine transaminase (ALT): An enzyme that helps metabolize protein.
Liver enzyme tests, formerly called liver function tests (LFTs), are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. They can also check how well the liver is working. Liver enzyme testing includes ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase; true liver function tests (LFTs) include PT, INR, albumin, and bilirubin. Most often, a liver test panel is ordered as a routine lab test. Many doctors check the liver in new patients or during annual physicals. Your doctor may conduct liver enzyme and liver function tests if: 1  You are taking a medication that can harm the liver. 2  You have liver disease
The Liver Function Test includes several blood tests measuring specific proteins and liver enzymes in the blood. This combination of blood tests is designed to give a complete picture of the state of the liver. Some of these blood tests are associated with the integrity of the liver cells (i.e. ALT), some with liver function (i.e. albumin) and some with diseases linked to the biliary system (i.e. alkaline phosphatase). The Liver Function Test is often used to detect liver disease and measure potential liver damage. Liver diseases often cause only mild symptoms in the early stages.
Liver Function Test (LFT) Here is a breakdown of what an LFT (Liver Function Test) may include, what it does, normal values, and what other than normal values can mean. Also drugs and other things that can affect the results of each test.
A liver (hepatic) function panel is a blood test to check how well the liver is working. This test measures the blood levels of total protein, albumin, bilirubin, and liver enzymes. Your doctor may order a liver function panel if you have symptoms of liver disease. These symptoms include fever, vomiting, abdominal pain, yellowing of your eyes or skin (jaundice), dark yellow urine, and feeling very tired.
Levels that are higher or lower than normal can indicate liver problems. Some common liver function tests include: 1  Alanine transaminase (ALT). 2  ALT is an enzyme found in the liver that helps your body metabolize protein. 3  When the liver is damaged, ALT is released into the bloodstream and levels increase. 