Atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries is the primary cause of vertebrobasilar disease. The narrowing of the vertebral or basilar arteries caused by atherosclerosis creates vertebrobasilar insufficiency (VBI), or an insufficient delivery of blood flow to the posterior structures of the brain.
Vertebrobasilar disease is a broad classification describing the condition where there is an insufficient delivery of blood flow via the vertebral and/or basilar arteries to the brain.
Wikipedia: Vertebrobasilar insufficiency (VBI), or vertebral basilar ischemia (also called Beauty parlour syndrome... more... MalaCards based summary: Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency, also known as vertebrobasilar arterial insufficiency, is related to cervicitis and spondylosis.
Basilar artery syndrome, which presents as a locked-in state, is caused by complete occlusion of the intracranial portion of vertebrobasilar circulation. It is a devastating disease with a mortality rate of 75-85%.
Vertebrobasilar insufficiency (VBI) , or vertebral basilar ischemia (also called Beauty parlour syndrome (BPS)), refers to a temporary set of symptoms due to decreased blood flow in the posterior circulation of the brain.
vertebrobasilar insufficiency (verˈ·t ·brō·bāˑ·z ·ler inˈ·s ·fiˑ·sh n·sē) , n a disorder caused by decrease of blood flow in the vertebral or basilar arteries due to atherosclerosis or compression placed on the external wall of the arteries. Symptoms may include loss of vision, dizziness, or nausea. Also called.
Synonyms: vertebrobasilar stroke, vertebrobasilar insufficiency. Occlusion or impairment of the vertebrobasilar blood supply affects the medulla, cerebellum, pons, midbrain, thalamus and occipital cortex. This results in a number of clinical syndromes and is caused primarily by atherosclerosis.
Embolic occlusion of the vertebrobasilar system is not common and usually is artery-to-artery with occlusion of the basilar artery. Donor sites for the emboli typically are the aortic arch, the subclavian artery, and the origin of the vertebral arteries.