In Australia, Jamaica, and in New Orleans, Green Onions are called shallots. And, all over the place, to many people Green Onions are either young leeks, the tops of onions, or the stems of shallots. 
Green onions are often called bunching onions. They are called green onions or scallions in the US, while in Australia, England, and India they are called spring onions. Scallions Vs. Green Onions. I guess the above two points are clear enough for us to discuss the major similarities and differences between the two.
green onion = scallion = bunching onion = shallot (in Australia) = spring onion (in Britain) = Chinese onion = stone leek = cibol Equivalents: 1 bunch = 1/4 pound = 1/2 cup sliced Notes: These are onions that have small bulbs and long green stalks. They're usually eaten raw, but you can also grill or saut them. Some people also use the term green onions to refer to onion tops, shallot tops and young leeks. Substitutes: spring onions OR leeks OR shallots OR chives (if used raw). leek Notes: Leeks look like large green onions, and they have a more complex onion flavor.
Green onions are green onions in the United States; in England and Australia the green onion is also called a spring onion. Green onions are sometimes also called scallions. (But, now, you know there is a difference even if ever so slight.). These are often called Salad Onions and in some countries such as Australia, New Zealand and India they are known as Spring Onions or even Shallots. It's probably because shallots have a mild flavour that they've been confused with scallions. See all about Growing Shallots here
Also called green onions in American cooking and scallions in some Australian states. These are immature onions which are sold when the top is green and the bulb small. Both the bulb and the top can be used. They have a mild flavour and are good in Asian cooking, raw in dishes and in salads. They are called Eschallots in Victoria and some European countries. Shallots have a mild flavour and can be used raw or briefly sauteed. Sautéed the white part has the more oniony flavour but the entire plant can be. Used what are called spring onions In australia are small white bulbs with a green. stem
Identify green onions. These are onions with such a variety of names that it's easy to be confused. They have long, slender white bases with green tops. Every bit of this onion can be used, both green and white sections, and the green tastes milder than the white. 1  Green onions are also known as scallions or eschallots. 2  They are sometimes mistakenly called shallots or spring onions
A bundle of red scallions. Scallion, green onion, and spring onion are English names (with many other regional names throughout the world) for various Allium species. All of the Allium have hollow green leaves (like the common onion), but these are used while they lack a fully developed root bulb
Green onions are sometimes called bunching onions. When onion seeds are planted densely they grow so close or bunched together that the bulbs have little chance of fully maturing and rounding out. Green onions are green onions in the United States; in England and Australia the green onion is also called a spring onion. Green onions are sometimes also called scallions.