The absorption of a photon of energy by a fluorophore, which occurs due to an interaction of the oscillating electric field vector of the light wave with charges (electrons) in the molecule, is an all or none phenomenon and can only occur with incident light of specific wavelengths known as absorption bands.
Fluorescence is a member of the ubiquitous luminescence family of processes in which susceptible molecules emit light from electronically excited states created by either a physical (for example, absorption of light), mechanical (friction), or chemical mechanism.
Excitation of a susceptible molecule by an incoming photon happens in femtoseconds (10E-15 seconds), while vibrational relaxation of excited state electrons to the lowest energy level is much slower and can be measured in picoseconds (10E-12 seconds).
Fluorescence is a member of the ubiquitous luminescence family of processes in which susceptible molecules emit light from electronically excited states created by either a physical (for example, absorption of light), mechanical (friction), or chemical mechanism.
Fluorescence occurs when an orbital electron of a molecule, atom, or nanostructure, relaxes to its ground state by emitting a photon from an excited singlet state : Excitation: Fluorescence (emission): Here is a generic term for photon energy with h = Planck's constant and = frequency of light.
Fluorescence is a process where a substance emits light as an effect of the absorption of light of a shorter wavelength. The difference in wavelengths is called Stoke’s Shift. In detail, fluorescence occurs if a substance absorbs light in the form of photons. This leads to a shift of electrons to a higher energy level.
As a consequence, fluorescence emission occurs exclusively from the lowest excited singlet state (S(1)), resulting in a spectrum that mirrors the ground to first excited state transition (350 nanometer peak) in quinine and not the entire absorption spectrum.
The process of phosphorescence occurs in a manner similar to fluorescence, but with a much longer excited state lifetime. The fluorescence process is governed by three important events, all of which occur on timescales that are separated by several orders of magnitude (see Table 1).
Abstract. Fluorescence quenching refers to any process that decreases the fluorescence intensity of a sample. A variety of molecular interactions can result in quenching. These include excited-state reactions, molecular rearrangements, energy transfer, ground-state complex formation, and colli-sional