Time dependence of the system behavior on the value of the damping ratio ζ, for undamped (blue) , under-damped (green) , critically damped (red) , and over-damped (cyan) cases, for zero-velocity initial condition. Steady state variation of amplitude with frequency and damping of a driven simple harmonic oscillator. where ω 0 is the undamped angular frequency of the oscillator and ζ is a constant called the damping ratio. This equation is valid for many different oscillating systems, but with different formulas for the damping ratio and the undamped angular frequency.
If a frictional force (damping) proportional to the velocity is also present, the harmonic oscillator is described as a damped oscillator. Depending on the friction coefficient, the system can: 1  Oscillate with a frequency lower than in the non-damped case, and an amplitude decreasing with time (underdamped oscillator). 2  Decay to the equilibrium position, without oscillations (overdamped oscillator). A simple harmonic oscillator is an oscillator that is neither driven nor damped. It consists of a mass m, which experiences a single force, F, which pulls the mass in the direction of the point x =0 and depends only on the mass's position x and a constant k. Balance of forces (Newton's second law) for the system is.
Damped oscillations. We know that in reality, a spring won't oscillate for ever. Frictional forces will diminish the amplitude of oscillation until eventually the system is at rest. We will now add frictional forces to the mass and spring. Imagine that the mass was put in a liquid like molasses.
Figure 1. Decay of oscillations: (A 0) initial amplitude, (T) period. The energy losses in a system that cause damping of oscillations disturb their periodicity, so that the damped oscillations are not a periodic process and, strictly speaking, the concepts of period and frequency are not applicable to them. a decrease in intensity of oscillations with time caused by energy losses in the oscilla-tory system. The simplest case of energy loss for an oscillation is the conversion of energy into heat as a result of friction in mechanical systems and of resistance in electrical systems.
For damping in music, see Damping (music) . Underdamped spring–mass system. Damping is an influence within or upon an oscillatory system that has the effect of reducing, restricting or preventing its oscillations. In physical systems, damping is produced by processes that dissipate the energy stored in the oscillation. where ω 0 is the undamped angular frequency of the oscillator and ζ is a constant called the damping ratio. This equation is valid for many different oscillating systems, but with different formulas for the damping ratio and the undamped angular frequency.
Damped Oscillations. In real life, the oscillations lose energy which reduces the total mechanical energy of the system.The amplitude of the oscillations can be reduced more rapidily if a damper is added to the system. Dampers disipate the energy of the system and convert the kinetic energy into heat. Critical Damping. Here γ 2 = ω 2, the damping is such that the system returns to the equilibrium without overshooting the equilibrium position. The system reaches equilibrium in the shortest time without overshooting. An example of a critically damped system is a car's suspension.