Phaseolus vulgaris, the common bean (also known as the string bean, field bean, flageolet bean, French bean, garden bean, green bean, haricot bean, pop bean, or snap bean), is a herbaceous annual plant grown worldwide for its edible dry seed (known as just  beans ) or unripe fruit (green beans). 
Description. Just as its name suggests, the kidney bean is shaped like a kidney. Since these dark red beans hold their shape really well during cooking and readily absorb surrounding flavors, they are a favorite bean to use in simmered dishes. Kidney beans that are white in color are known as cannellini beans. They are a very good source of folate, dietary fiber, and copper. Kidney beans are a good source of manganese, phosphorus, protein, vitamin B1, iron, potassium, and magnesium. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Kidney beans.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The kidney bean plant. If you actually take a kidney bean from a goya bean package and put it in dirt and water, it will actually grow. The kidney bean plant is a fast growing bean plant that does not require support like a bean pole like peas. No. Cocaine comes from the leaves of the coca plant (Erythroxylaceae coca), whereas the cocoa bean (Theobroma cacao), where chocolate is made from, comes from the cocoa tree. … Coca is a shrub whereas cocoa is a tree. Check out the related links below for more information.
Answer   Kidney beans are a type of bean, while chili bean refers to a recipe or way the beans are cooked. So chili beans can be made with several different types o … f beans. Commonly used are kidney, pinto and black beans. No. Cocaine comes from the leaves of the coca plant (Erythroxylaceae coca), whereas the cocoa bean (Theobroma cacao), where chocolate is made from, comes from the cocoa tree. … Coca is a shrub whereas cocoa is a tree. Check out the related links below for more information.
Kidney beans come in both bush and vine varieties. Bush beans take up a little more space and usually yield all of their beans at once. Vine beans need a stake or trellis for support and yield a continual harvest for 1-2 months. The large leaves of kidney bean plants are targets for lots of different pests including slugs, leafhoppers, beetles and aphids. Organic sprays and hand picking are the best way to deal with bugs like these. Use fencing and netting if squirrels, deer or rabbits become a nuisance. Keep a tidy, healthy garden.
Kidney beans and other beans such as pinto beans, navy beans and black beans are known scientifically as Phaseolus vulgaris. They are referred to as common beans probably owing to the fact that they all derived from a common bean ancestor that originated in Peru. They are a very good source of folate, dietary fiber, and copper. Kidney beans are a good source of manganese, phosphorus, protein, vitamin B1, iron, potassium, and magnesium. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Kidney beans.
Dry beans come from both Old World varieties of broad beans (fava beans) and New World varieties (kidney, black, cranberry, pinto, navy/haricot). Beans are a heliotropic plant, meaning that the leaves tilt throughout the day to face the sun. At night, they go into a folded sleep position. Some kinds of raw beans, especially red and kidney beans, contain a harmful toxin (lectin phytohaemagglutinin) that must be removed by cooking. A recommended method is to boil the beans for at least ten minutes; undercooked beans may be more toxic than raw beans.
Red kidney beans are thought to have originated in Peru. They’re part of a larger group called “common beans,” which were cultivated as early as 8,000 years ago. 
Kidney beans are large, dry beans known for their kidney shape and usually a dark, red appearance though they do come in other colors. They are a staple of southern cuisine and make a great supplement to meat for vegetarians due to their high levels of protein, calcium and magnesium. The large leaves of kidney bean plants are targets for lots of different pests including slugs, leafhoppers, beetles and aphids. Organic sprays and hand picking are the best way to deal with bugs like these. Use fencing and netting if squirrels, deer or rabbits become a nuisance. Keep a tidy, healthy garden.
Best Answer: I will assume we are talking about edible beans. Beans can come from a bush or a vine. It depends on the variety. And yes they do come from pods. Sometimes we eat the whole pod, as with green beans, and sometimes we eat just the bean, like lima beans.