Renew Your Texas ID Card. You may be eligible to renew your Texas ID online, by phone, by mail, or in person. If your Texas ID card expired more than 2 years ago, you must apply as a new applicant and meet all the requirements for a new ID card. There are no age restrictions to apply for an ID card in Texas. If you have been a Texas resident for at least 30 days, you may apply for a Texas ID card. You will need to be able to prove your: 1  Identity. 2  U.S. citizenship or lawful presence status
Apply for a Texas Identification Card. The Department of Public Safety (DPS) does NOT allow you to apply for an original Texas ID card online or by phone. You must apply in person at a local DPS office and submit: 1  An Application For Texas Driver License or Identification Card (Form DL 14-A). There are no age restrictions to apply for an ID card in Texas. If you have been a Texas resident for at least 30 days, you may apply for a Texas ID card. You will need to be able to prove your: 1  Identity. 2  U.S. citizenship or lawful presence status
Identification Requirements. Individuals must complete additional requirements to obtain a driver license or ID card. To help reduce identity theft, individuals must present documents to verify their identity when applying for a driver license or identification card. An individual can present one primary document. No other documents are required to verify identity if one primary document is provided. Primary identity documents include: 1  Texas driver license or Texas identification card not expired more than 2 years.
In order to vote in Texas, you will need to bring ONE (1) of the following documents to your polling place: 1  TX Driver’s License issued by DPS. 2  TX Personal ID card issued by DPS. 3  TX concealed handgun license issued by DPS. 4  US military ID card showing your photo. 5  US citizenship certiﬁcate showing your photo. 
Your new driver license or ID card will be mailed to you in two to three weeks. If you renewed or changed the address for a driver license, you need to print your temporary driver license (valid for 45 days) from the receipt page. Texas law says you cannot have more than one valid driver license or ID card.
Apply for an Identification (ID) Card. To apply for your first Texas ID card, you must do the following: 1  Gather documents that verify your identity, U.S. citizenship or lawful presence status, Social Security Number and Texas residency. 2  Complete the application. 3  Apply in person at any driver license office and bring the required documents and fees
Step 3. Download the appropriate form to register for a state tax identification number. Some states also allow you to register for your ID online. For instance, in Texas you need to fill out the Texas Online Tax Registration Application to get an ID number to accept and pay sales tax. 
In Texas, you will need one valid form of id such as drivers license, certified copy of your birth certificate, U. S. passport, military ID card, and your Social Security number. 