However, what you feel when you have a headache is not your brain hurting -- there are plenty of other areas in your head and neck that do have nociceptors which can perceive pain, and they literally cause the headaches. That the brain doesn't have pain receptors has somewhat drifted into the corpus of general knowledge, perpetuated by pamphlets, books and documentaries. Your question caused me to look up wikipedia. Citing : A headache or cephalalgia is pain anywhere in the region of the head or neck.
(If the pain is in your head, nerve fibers connect directly to your brain.) In the spinal cord, incoming messages can be amplified, dampened or blocked altogether. Pain signals reach different parts of the brain. Some signals reach the part of the brain that controls spatial awareness. Pain signals also reach the hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls sleep and temperature regulation. The pain we feel can be modified by chemical signals in the spinal cord and in the brain. We know about some of them, but there are probably others that we haven’t discovered yet.
I've read many years ago in books, that the brain has no nerves on it, and if someone was touching your brain, you couldn't feel a thing. Just two days before now, I had a very bad migraine, due to a cold. That the brain doesn't have pain receptors has somewhat drifted into the corpus of general knowledge, perpetuated by pamphlets, books and documentaries. Your question caused me to look up wikipedia. Citing : A headache or cephalalgia is pain anywhere in the region of the head or neck.
Pain is supposed to be a warning. When your hand gets too close to a stove, the nerves send a pain signal to the brain -- and you pull back before you burn yourself. But if you have nerve damage, that system isn't working. Damaged nerves may send false signals -- and you feel real pain, often without a cause. People with nerve pain feel it in different ways. For some, it's a stabbing pain in the middle of the night. For others, symptoms can include a chronic prickling, tingling, or burning they feel all day. Uncontrolled nerve pain can be hard to bear.
Only the structures that surround the brain feel pain. As a matter of fact, once inside the brain, surgeons can operate on the brain without anesthesia. In one technique known as brain mapping, surgeons probe brain tissue while monitoring reactions like muscle movement and speech — all while the patient is awake. 
There are no pain receptors in the brain itself. But he meninges (coverings around the brain), periosteum (coverings on the bones), and the scalp all have pain receptors. Surgery can be done on the brain and technically the brain does not feel that pain. With that said, the brain is the tool we use to detect pain. Let’s say you’re on the beach and you step on a sharp shell
The Brain. Once a pain signal reaches the brain, a number of things can happen. Certain parts of the brain stem (which connects the brain to the spinal cord) can inhibit or muffle incoming pain signals by the production of endorphins, which are morphine-like substances that occur naturally in the human body. The gate control theory proposes that there are gates on the bundle of nerve fibers in the spinal cord between the peripheral nerves and the brain. These spinal nerve gates control the flow of pain messages from the peripheral nerves to
The spinal cord is also in charge of your reflexes. The brain does not have to tell your foot to move away from the shell, because the spinal cord has already sent that message. The pain signal continues to the brain. But he meninges (coverings around the brain), periosteum (coverings on the bones), and the scalp all have pain receptors. Surgery can be done on the brain and technically the brain does not feel that pain.
Other signals travel to the part of the brain that generates and controls emotion. Pain signals also reach the hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls sleep and temperature regulation. The pain we feel can be modified by chemical signals in the spinal cord and in the brain. We know about some of them, but there are probably others that we haven’t discovered yet.
You are correct in that the neurons themselves do not sense pain. However, the brain contains layers of coverings, blood vessels, the scalp and some muscles. All of these other structures have pain receptors. The coverings of the brain are called meninges and consist of the dura, arachnoid and pia. The dura in particular has a lot of pain receptors and may be responsible for many headaches. That the brain doesn't have pain receptors has somewhat drifted into the corpus of general knowledge, perpetuated by pamphlets, books and documentaries. Your question caused me to look up wikipedia. Citing : A headache or cephalalgia is pain anywhere in the region of the head or neck.