Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate. 1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 4  Your liver also produces oxalate.
Symptoms of kidney stones. You may not know you have a kidney stone unless it causes pain, is large and blocks the flow of urine or is being passed. The most common symptom is severe, fluctuating pain in the lower back or side under the ribs. If you have symptoms, call your doctor. Taking care of kidney stones early can prevent serious complications, such as chronic kidney disease or, in extreme cases, renal failure that would require dialysis or a kidney transplant to replace the function of the kidneys.
After it is formed, the stone may stay in the kidney or travel down the urinary tract into the ureter. Sometimes, tiny stones move out of the body in the urine without causing too much pain. But stones that don't move may cause a back-up of urine in the kidney, ureter, the bladder, or the urethra. This is what causes the pain. Possible causes include drinking too little water, exercise (too much or too little), obesity, weight loss surgery, or eating food with too much salt or sugar. There are four main types of stones: 1  Calcium oxalate: The most common type of kidney stone which is created when calcium combines with oxalate in the urine. 2  Inadequate calcium and fluid intake, as well other conditions, may contribute to their formation.
1 Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 4  Your liver also produces oxalate.
1 Calcium oxalate: The most common type of kidney stone which is created when calcium combines with oxalate in the urine. 2  Inadequate calcium and fluid intake, as well other conditions, may contribute to their formation. 3  Uric acid: This is another common type of kidney stone. There are four main types of stones: 1 
In most cases, kidney stones are formed when there is too little fluid (from dehydration due to lack of drinking or excess exercise), an overabundance of crystal-forming minerals in the urine, and/or lower-than-normal levels of the chemicals that breakdown these minerals in the urine. If you have symptoms, call your doctor. Taking care of kidney stones early can prevent serious complications, such as chronic kidney disease or, in extreme cases, renal failure that would require dialysis or a kidney transplant to replace the function of the kidneys.
Kidney stones are a formation of hardened minerals in the kidneys or urinary system. In most cases, kidney stones are formed because of a decrease in urine volume or increase in the minerals that form the stones in the urine. About 1 in every 20 people will have a kidney stone in their lifetime. If you have symptoms, call your doctor. Taking care of kidney stones early can prevent serious complications, such as chronic kidney disease or, in extreme cases, renal failure that would require dialysis or a kidney transplant to replace the function of the kidneys.
A kidney stone, also known as a renal calculus or nephrolith, is a solid piece of material which is formed in the kidneys from minerals in urine. Kidney stones typically leave the body in the urine stream, and a small stone may pass without causing symptoms. Other associated symptoms include: nausea, vomiting, fever, blood in the urine, pus in the urine, and painful urination. Blockage of the ureter can cause decreased kidney function and dilation of the kidney. Most stones form due to a combination of genetics and environmental factors.
Stone disease is a painful and common condition that affects more than 5% of all adults in the US. 1 It’s estimated that nearly 2 million patients visit their doctors or local emergency rooms because of kidney stones every year. 2. 