Hi I had a miscarriage on March 29th had a normal period April 26 and had no period in may but got it in June 25th is that normal. Made an apt with my doctor just want to hear any feed back if this has happen to any one before. Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months.
So if a woman has a 28 day cycle, she'll ovulate around 14 days after the miscarriage and have a period about 28 days after the start of the miscarriage,” says Aszani Stoddard, Certified Nurse-Midwife with Park Nicollet Health Services in Minnesota. 
1 Vaginal bleeding, similar to a menstrual period, may last up to a week after a miscarriage. 2  Light bleeding, or spotting. 3  Depending on your menstrual cycle, normal periods should resume in 3-6 weeks. 4  Lower abdominal pain similar to menstrual cramps may last up to 2 days after the miscarriage. 1 Depending on your menstrual cycle, normal periods should resume in 3-6 weeks. 2  Lower abdominal pain similar to menstrual cramps may last up to 2 days after the miscarriage. 3  Breast discomfort, engorgement or leaking milk; ice packs and a supportive bra may relieve discomfort.
If you experience any bleeding period after this 20 days, it will probably be the real period. This normally comes at about 4 to 6 weeks after the miscarriage. This period will be heavy as compared to the normal light periods that you usually get, and may be accompanied by severe cramping. Blood clots can be experienced and the period lasts for about 4 to 7 days, but it does not apply to all women since it is individual specific. Also, there is a great difference between the first period after an abortion and the first period after a normal
You will need to watch your symptoms after you miscarry to determine if your recovery is progressing at a normal and healthy pace. Spontaneous miscarriage refers to a condition that is caused when the body aborts a fetus within 20 weeks of gestation. As your body heals it may take time for your menstrual cycle to return to normal. Your first period after your miscarriage should occur four weeks after the hCG levels return to zero. Many examinations only measure these levels until the hCG levels fall below 5, so it can be difficult to determine when exactly normal bleeding can be expected.
You should expect to get your period about four weeks after a D&C and you might expect to see your period around six weeks after a miscarriage that did not require a D&C. Every woman is different, but generally you can expect to get your period in four to six weeks. Some women get their period just a couple weeks later, while some women do not get their period for three or more months.
Case 2: Miscarriage at 5 Weeks Without Severe Symptoms. My miscarriage occurred when I had completed 5 weeks and 5 days of pregnancy. 2 days of light spotting were followed by another 2 days of light bleeding and period like cramps. I was bleeding for the next 5 days. I completed 6 weeks of pregnancy on Wednesday, when I lost my baby. Duration of a Miscarriage. Miscarriages can last from one day to about 3 weeks in duration. It depends on various factors like the time required by the body to completely eliminate the fetal tissues etc. For some women the bleeding and cramping stops in a week, however, some can experience it for over 3 weeks.
In a normal recovery, it can take three weeks for the hormone chain to fire up again, and it will not be marked by bleeding or any physical symptom. You will only know that the new cycle worked by having a period at the end of it, between five and seven weeks after your miscarriage. Your bleeding will taper off to spotting within a week, and maybe random spotting will continue for another week. Your hCG drops steadily, usually hitting zero during the end of the spotting, or about 10 days after the miscarriage or D&C. When the spotting ends, you will get strange symptoms.
Menstrual cycle. You may resume a normal cycle immediately with the next period 28 days after the miscarriage but there is a great personal variation, and it can take up to 6 or 7 weeks for your period to return, especially if you had a “natural” miscarriage (i.e. no D&C or tablets).