I wrote my Master's thesis on the symbolism of the one dollar bill and the Great Seal. It all points to a single religion, Out of Many, One.. It incorporates images from Greek and Roman Mystery religions, religious philosophy, and borrows ideas from Judaism. 1 The design for the current one dollar bill-with the Great Seal, unfinished pyramid, and Eye of Providence-was first introduced in 1969.
As you know if you've read the fine print, what you see on the back of a dollar bill is the great seal of the U.S., established by Congress on June 20, 1782. The official interpretation is that the pyramid represents strength and durability. It's incomplete because so is the work of building the nation. The eye in the triangle is the all-seeing eye of providence. What makes the story interesting is that the eye and pyramid have links to Freemasonry. The eye, for example, is said to be a symbol of the Great Architect of the Universe, i.e., God.
The all-seeing eye floating in over an unfinished pyramid is the most widely recognized symbol of the Illuminati. The “Illuminati logo” is seen on the US one dollar bill, the world’s most-widely circulated banknote, and it is increasingly seen in movies, on television and other media. It has come to be recognized as the preeminent logo of the all-powerful and secretive Illuminati.
In the modern era, the most notable depiction of the eye is the reverse of the Great Seal of the United States, which appears on the United States one-dollar bill. The Eye appears on the following currency: 1  United States one-dollar bill, as part of the Great Seal (see above). 2  The 50 Estonian krooni note, as part of a depiction of the pipe organ of the Kaeina käina. 3  Church the 500 ukrainian hryvnia.  note
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: As you know if you've read the fine print, what you see on the back of a dollar bill is the great seal of the U.S., established by Congress on June 20, 1782. The official interpretation is that the pyramid represents strength and durability. It's incomplete because so is the work of building the nation. 
Report Abuse. The unfinished pyramid and the eye in a triangle on the reverse side are classic symbols. The Egyptian pyramid is a symbol of strength and duration; the 13 steps indicate the original number of U.S. states; and the 13 steps leading to an unfinished summit indicates future growth of the nation. The eye is known as the Eye of Providence and is surrounded by rays of light
In 1782, the Eye of Providence was adopted as part of the symbolism on the reverse side of the Great Seal of the United States. The Eye appears on the following currency: 1  United States one-dollar bill, as part of the Great Seal (see above). 2  The 50 Estonian krooni note, as part of a depiction of the pipe organ of the Kaeina käina. 3  Church the 500 ukrainian hryvnia.  note
The Eye of Providence can be seen on the reverse of the Great Seal of the United States, seen here on the US $1 bill. The Eye of Providence (or the all-seeing eye of God) is a symbol showing an eye often surrounded by rays of light or a glory and usually enclosed by a triangle. The Eye appears on the following currency: 1  United States one-dollar bill, as part of the Great Seal (see above). 2  The 50 Estonian krooni note, as part of a depiction of the pipe organ of the Kaeina käina. 3  Church the 500 ukrainian hryvnia.  note
As you can see from this symbol on the back of our One Dollar Bill, the typical All-Seeing Eye is depicted in the form of a pyramid, shown here, hovering over the unfinished pyramid representative of the unfinished project of moving the world into the New World Order and staging their Masonic Christ. Let us now focus on this Pyramid Symbol, for it is truly pregnant in meaning! Please turn the American One Dollar Bill over to the back side so we can study the symbol on the left, called the Obverse of the Great Seal.
of the Great Seal (on the Dollar Bill). The Pyramid & Eye on the reverse side of the Great Seal is a misunderstood symbol that's becoming a casualty of lore: trivialized by the media as a background image on the evening financial news; commandeered by conspiracy theorists; abused by fiction writers.