By now, any “financial institution” (as the man on the Clapham Omnibus would understand that term) would need to have had its head in the sand in order not to be aware of the impact of FATCA and its need to comply with this new regime. The first FATCA report filing deadline is 31 March 2015 (31 May 2015 in the UK). Reporting must be done annually.The information that needs to be reported includes the name, address and US taxpayer identification number of the accountholder, as well as certain details of the account.
 The new provisions use U.S. source payments, and the ability of the United States to levy withholding tax on those payments, as leverage to require financial institutions to report on U.S. persons invested in non-U.S. accounts.  A foreign entity, the primary purpose of which is to act as a holding company for a subsidiary (or subsidiaries) that primarily engages in a trade or business other than that of a financial institution, will be excluded from the definition of an FFI, unless that holding company acts as an investment fund.
FATCA Information for U.S. Financial Institutions and Entities. 1  U.S. financial institutions (USFIs) and other types of U.S. withholding agents are required to withhold 30% on certain U.S. source payments made to foreign entities, if they are unable to document such entities for purposes of FATCA. 1 A USFI may register as a sponsoring entity for FFIs and agree to perform, on behalf of the FFI, all the FATCA activities that the FFI otherwise would have to do. 2  A USFI may register as a Lead FI to manage the FATCA registration process for members of its Expanded Affiliated Group of FFIs.
1 Philippines The mandatory reporting of financial information on US nationals by local financial institutions, as required under the new treaty on Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (Fatca) between the Philippines and the US, has been moved to the second quarter of 2016. Certain aspects of FATCA have been a source of controversy in the financial and general press. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Tax Affairs at the U.S. Department of the Treasury states the administration position that the controversies are incorrect (myths).
1 Under FATCA, to avoid being withheld upon, foreign financial institutions (FFIs) may register with the IRS and agree to report to the IRS certain information about their U.S. accounts, including accounts of certain foreign entities with substantial U.S. owners. 1 An FFI that registers on the “FATCA Registration Website” (“Website”), upon approval, will receive a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) from the IRS, unless the FFI is treated as a Limited FFI.
1 Investment entities (for example, hedge funds or private equity funds). 2  Certain types of insurance companies that have cash value products or annuities. 3  Unless otherwise exempt, FFIs that do not both register and agree to report face a 30% withholding tax on certain U.S.-source payments made to them. 1 An FFI that registers on the “FATCA Registration Website” (“Website”), upon approval, will receive a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) from the IRS, unless the FFI is treated as a Limited FFI.
1 U.S. financial institutions (USFIs) and other types of U.S. withholding agents are required to withhold 30% on certain U.S. source payments made to foreign entities, if they are unable to document such entities for purposes of FATCA. 1 A USFI may register as a sponsoring entity for FFIs and agree to perform, on behalf of the FFI, all the FATCA activities that the FFI otherwise would have to do. 2  A USFI may register as a Lead FI to manage the FATCA registration process for members of its Expanded Affiliated Group of FFIs.
FFI is the abbreviation for foreign financial institution. It refers to a non-US financial institution. The FATCA legislation contains an extensive definition of FFI and includes entities such as banks, custodian institutions, investment funds and certain types of insurance companies. An IGA is an agreement between the US and specific countries to build FATCA compliance into the country’s legal framework so that the country can implement FATCA. An IGA will require financial institutions to provide the information on US accounts which they hold either: 1  directly to the IRS.
1 A small family trust could, therefore, be a financial institution for the purpose for FATCA, and therefore have FATCA reporting obligations. 3. NOMINEES Any entity in the business of acting as a nominee for others will be a financial institution, and will therefore have reporting obligations under FATCA. The first FATCA report filing deadline is 31 March 2015 (31 May 2015 in the UK). Reporting must be done annually.The information that needs to be reported includes the name, address and US taxpayer identification number of the accountholder, as well as certain details of the account.
1 International Data Exchange. 2  Under FATCA, to avoid being withheld upon, foreign financial institutions (FFIs) may register with the IRS and agree to report to the IRS certain information about their U.S. accounts, including accounts of certain foreign entities with substantial U.S. owners. 1 An FFI that registers on the “FATCA Registration Website” (“Website”), upon approval, will receive a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) from the IRS, unless the FFI is treated as a Limited FFI.