Posts. 19,811. It doesn't usually take that long, depends on how big the claim was. I was involved in an accident a few years back, went to hospital, no whiplash or neck injuries, lawyer contacted me, got something like 9k out of it around 6 or 8 months afterwards, the lawyer took half as his fee.
Yes, If for example you were 20% to blame for the accident, the Fund will reduce your claims with 20% and pay you or the service provider 80% of the assessed costs you incurred. If this situation applies to your case, we would like to urge you to plan ahead, before incurring any particular costs, so as to ensure that you will be able to pay for your own share of the costs from your own money, as the Fund will only reimburse you to the extent of its share.
When a buyer sends you a payment through PayPal, the money is usually available in your PayPal account right away. However, in some cases, the payment might be pending for a few days, or it might be held by PayPal for up to 21 days. If a buyer has paid you for an eBay item using PayPal, you can check the status of the payment from My eBay. Once your payment appears in your PayPal account you can withdraw it in several ways. If you need more information, please contact PayPal.
RAF personnel do what it takes to get the job done so we make sure they’re well rewarded with an exciting lifestyle and one-of-a-kind benefits package. 
The RAF does not have any say as far as the amount payable by the claimant to the attorney is concerned. Some attorneys do charge their clients a deposit to cover expenses and some also require their clients to pay upfront for expenses as and when they occur. This means that the account must indicate exactly what service/treatment has been received. It must also reflect the date of the service or treatment, as well as the name and physical address of the service provider. It is not enough to only submit a receipt as proof that you have incurred an expense
Lerato, We recommend that you pose this question to the GEPF administrators, which is not us. But it normally takes between 4 and 12 weeks for the GEPF to pay out after resignation, provided your tax affairs are in order. Good morning My mother was a teacher for 31 years, She only got payment for 7 years. She went to Pension 2007 December, from 2008 up until now still waiting the money for 24 years, gepf always says They still busy with recalculation. How long recalculation Takes.
You may also be able to get into the RAF through an apprenticeship scheme. There are apprenticeships available in areas such as aviation operations, engineering, IT and hospitality and catering. You can find out more from the RAF website. You’ll also need to have a series of background checks. You’ll visit RAF bases and develop some of the key skills that the RAF will be looking for in the selection process. Find out more from the Air Cadets website. It’s normal to sign up to the RAF for a minimum of between 6 and 12 years but you could extend your service beyond this.
Blog Entries. 1. An accident I was in, took almost 2 years to get paid out by the RAF-so long time frames aren't that unusual. I'd go with dominic's suggestion of contacting the law society and sniffing quietly, if the lawyers seem to be avoiding giving you info that you seem to be entitled to. It doesn't usually take that long, depends on how big the claim was. I was involved in an accident a few years back, went to hospital, no whiplash or neck injuries, lawyer contacted me, got something like 9k out of it around 6 or 8 months afterwards, the lawyer took half as his fee.
When specifically excluded in the undertaking, the undertaking does not cover the costs of any compensation to which you would be entitled in terms of the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation legislation, the Defence Force Act, 1957, (Act No 44 of 1957), or another Act of Parliament governing the said Force. If this situation applies to your case, we would like to urge you to plan ahead, before incurring any particular costs, so as to ensure that you will be able to pay for your own share of the costs from your own money, as the Fund will only reimburse you to the extent of its share.