1. The mesosphere starts just above the stratosphere and extends to 85 kilometers (53 miles) high. 2. Temperatures in the upper mesosphere fall as low as -100°C (-146°F or 173 K) , varying according to latitude and season.Within this layer, temperature decreases with increasing altitude. 3
The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere above the mesosphere. The thermosphere extends from 50 to 55 miles (80-90 km) above sea level, with the upper limit undefined … . The temperature in the thermosphere initially rises rapidly with heights up to about 120 miles (200 km) and thereafter increases more slowly. 
The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The mesosphere is above the stratosphere layer. The layer above the mesosphere is called the thermosphere. The mesosphere starts at 50 km (31 miles) above Earth's surface and goes up to 85 km (53 miles) high. As you get higher up in the mesosphere, the temperature gets colder. The top of the mesosphere is the coldest part of Earth's atmosphere. The mesopause is the boundary between the mesosphere and the thermosphere above it. The stratopause is the boundary between the mesosphere and the stratosphere below it. Scientists know less about the mesosphere than about other layers of the atmosphere. The mesosphere is hard to study.
The mesopause, at an altitude of 80–90 km (50–56 mi), separates the mesosphere from the thermosphere —the second-outermost layer of the Earth's atmosphere. This is also around the same altitude as the turbopause, below which different chemical species are well mixed due to turbulent eddies. In the mesosphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. The upper boundary of the mesosphere is the mesopause, which can be the coldest naturally occurring place on Earth with temperatures below 130 K (−226 °F; −143 °C).
The boundary between the mesosphere and the thermosphere above it is called the mesopause. At the bottom of the mesosphere is the stratopause, the boundary between the mesosphere and the stratosphere below. The mesosphere is difficult to study, so less is known about this layer of the atmosphere than other layers. Credit: Randy Russell, UCAR. The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The mesosphere is directly above the stratosphere and below the thermosphere. It extends from about 50 to 85 km (31 to 53 miles) above our planet. Temperature decreases with height throughout the mesosphere. The coldest temperatures in Earth's atmosphere, about -90° C (-130° F), are found near the top of this layer
The mesosphere layer is the coldest layer. You should know that the mesosphere layer extends from the stratopause (at a height of 50 km above the sea level) to the mesopause (at a height of 85 km above the sea level) . The thickness of the mesosphere layer is 35 kilometres. You should know that the temperature in the mesosphere layer decreases with a rate as we go up until it reaches (– 90 degree Celsius) at its top. So, it is called the coldest layer.
The thermosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The thermosphere is directly above the mesosphere and below the exosphere. It extends from about 90 km (56 miles) to between 500 and 1,000 km (311 to 621 miles) above our planet. 
The stratosphere, mesosphere and lowest part of the thermosphere are collectively referred to as the middle atmosphere, which spans heights from approximately 10 kilometres (33,000 ft) to 100 kilometres (62 mi). In the mesosphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. The upper boundary of the mesosphere is the mesopause, which can be the coldest naturally occurring place on Earth with temperatures below 130 K (−226 °F; −143 °C).
The mesosphere (/ˈmɛsoʊsfɪər/ ; from Greek mesos middle and sphaira ball) is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is directly above the stratopause and directly below the mesopause. In the mesosphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. The upper boundary of the mesosphere is the mesopause, which can be the coldest naturally occurring place on Earth with temperatures below 130 K (−226 °F; −143 °C).