The Hidden Meaning of the name Priscilla using NumerologyNumerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The Hidden Meaning of the name Priscilla using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Priscilla.
Priscilla is an English female given name adopted from the Roman Priscilla, derived from the Latin priscus (old) . One suggestion is that it is intended to bestow long life on the bearer. It appears in the New Testament of the Christian Bible variously as Priscilla and Prisca, a female leader in the early Church. The name appears in English literature in Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene (1596) and was adopted as an English name by the Puritans in the 17th century.
Etymology of the name Priscilla. The name Priscilla is the diminutive form of Prisca, and Prisca is the female version of the common Latin surname Pricus, and both are related to names such as that of Priscianus, a linguist during the time of emperor Justinian.
The name Priscilla is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Priscilla is: Ancient. American Meaning: The name Priscilla is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Priscilla is: Ancient. Latin Meaning: The name Priscilla is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Priscilla is: Ancient; archaic. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
Priscilla /pri-scil-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced pris-SILL-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Priscilla is ancient, venerable. Biblical: a first-century Christian missionary. Priscilla was a favored name with the Puritans of England. Longfellow gave the name to the heroine of his poem, The Courtship of Miles Standish. Common in the early Christian era, then used by the Puritans, and popular in the 19th century. Actress Priscilla Presley. Kreatif forms: Pniscilla, Priscilna, Priscilpa.
It is more often used as a girl (female) name. People having the name Priscilla are in general originating from Belgium, Cote d'Ivoire, France, Italy, Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Priscilla across the world, see Priscus. The name Priscilla is ranked on the 778th position of the most used names. It means that this name is very frequently used. We estimate that there are at least 732000 persons in the world having this name which is around 0.011% of the population.
The Origin, Meaning and the Hidden Meaning of the name Priscilla This page details the origin and literal meaning of the name Priscilla together with an insight into the hidden meaning and interpretation of the name using numerology. The Hidden Meaning of the name Priscilla using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Priscilla.
Meaning & History. Roman name, a diminutive of PRISCA. In Acts in the New Testament Paul lived with Priscilla and her husband Aquila in Corinth for a while. It has been used as an English given name since the Protestant Reformation, being popular with the Puritans
The Meaning of the name Priscilla The meaning of the name Priscilla is as follows: Ancient Lineage. The Origin of the name Priscilla The origin of the name Priscilla is believed to be: Latin. The Hidden Meaning of the name Priscilla using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Priscilla.