Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. Tell your doctor immediately if any of these unlikely but serious side effects occur: swelling of the eye. An allergic reaction to this drug is unlikely, but seek immediate medical attention if it occurs. To avoid contamination, do not let the dropper tip touch any surface. Tilt your head back, gaze upward and pull down the lower eyelid to make a pouch. Place the dropper directly over eye and instill the prescribed number of drops. Look downward and gently close your eye for 1 to 2 minutes.
An effective treatment for your child’s bacterial eye infection. VIGAMOX Solution is an antibiotic eye drop used to treat bacterial conjunctivitis (eye infection) caused by susceptible bacteria. VIGAMOX Solution is available by prescription only. Offer good for up to three (3) 3mL bottles of VIGAMOX ® Solution for a single patient. Use of the card does not obligate the patient to use or continue using any Alcon product. No other purchase is necessary. You may use the card at any participating pharmacy in the United States.
Vigamox (moxifloxacin hydrochloride ophthalmic solution) is an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections of the eyes. Common side effects of Vigamox include blurred vision, watery eyes (tearing), and eye (pain, dryness, redness, itchiness, burning, stinging, and irritation). The dose of Vigamox: Instill one drop in the affected eye 3 times a day for 7 days. Our Vigamox (moxifloxacin hydrochloride ophthalmic solution) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Moxifloxacin ophthalmic (eye) solution is used to treat infections of the eye, such as bacterial conjunctivitis. Moxifloxacin belongs to a group of medicines called fluoroquinolone antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria that cause conjunctivitis. This medicine is not for long-term use. To use the eye drops: 1  First, wash your hands. 2  Tilt the head back and pressing your finger gently on the skin just beneath the lower eyelid, pull the lower eyelid away from the eye to form a pouch. 3  Drop the medicine into the pouch and gently close the eyes.
Moxifloxacin is also sold in an ophthalmic solution (eye drops) under the brand names Vigamox, and Moxeza for the treatment of conjunctivitis (pink eye). Avelox (moxifloxacin) was launched in the United States in 1999 and is marketed in more than 80 countries worldwide. In the United States, Avelox is marketed by Bayer's partner Merck.
*Terms and Conditions: The program is offered by Alcon and applies only to VIGAMOX* (moxifloxacin HCl ophthalmic solution) 0.5% as base prescriptions filled on or before 03/31/2015 for which patient has: (1) private insurance copay requirement of $25 or more, or (2) no insurance. Offer good for up to three (3) 3mL bottles of VIGAMOX ® Solution for a single patient. Use of the card does not obligate the patient to use or continue using any Alcon product. No other purchase is necessary. You may use the card at any participating pharmacy in the United States.
Uses of Vigamox. Back to Top. Vigamox eye solution is a prescription medication used to treat bacterial conjunctivitis (eye inflammation) caused by certain kinds of bacteria. This medication may be prescribed for other uses. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information. Vigamox belongs to a group of drugs called fluoroquinolone antibiotics, which help to kill bacteria in the body by inhibiting a bacterial enzyme called DNA-gyrase. This medication comes in the form of eye drops.
Updated: Vigamox is a prescription medication used to treat bacterial conjunctivitis (eye inflammation) caused by certain kinds of bacteria. Vigamox belongs to a group of drugs called fluoroquinolone antibiotics, which help to kill bacteria in the body by inhibiting a bacterial enzyme called DNA-gyrase. This medication comes in the form of eye drops. One drop is instilled into the affected eyes(s) 3 times daily for 7 days
Your doctor will tell you how much of this medicine to use and how often. Do not use more medicine or use it more often than your doctor tells you to. This medicine is not for long-term use. To use the eye drops: 1  First, wash your hands. 2  Tilt the head back and pressing your finger gently on the skin just beneath the lower eyelid, pull the lower eyelid away from the eye to form a pouch. 3  Drop the medicine into the pouch and gently close the eyes.
Moxifloxacin is a fourth-generation synthetic fluoroquinolone antibacterial agent developed by Bayer AG (initially called BAY 12-8039). It is marketed worldwide (as the hydrochloride) under the brand names Avelox, Avalox, and Avelon for oral treatment. Avelox (moxifloxacin) was launched in the United States in 1999 and is marketed in more than 80 countries worldwide. In the United States, Avelox is marketed by Bayer's partner Merck.