Save. DAJ/amana images/Getty Images. According to the World Health Organization, or WHO, genetically modified foods were introduced to the market in the mid-1990s with herbicide-resistant soybeans. The most common genetically modified foods are corn, canola, soybean and cotton, which is used to make cottonseed oil. Crop Durability and Food Security. Scientists developed genetically modified, or GM, plants by introducing genes that kill insects or weeds or protect against viruses. Some GM plants require less water so they can be grown in areas of the world where water is scarce or during times of drought.
Most vegetable oil used in the US is produced from GM crops canola, corn, cotton and soybeans. Vegetable oil is sold directly to consumers as cooking oil, shortening and margarine and is used in prepared foods. There is a vanishingly small amount of protein or DNA from the original crop in vegetable oil. As of 2011, the US is the leading country in the production of GM foods. Twenty-five GM crops had received regulatory approval. In 2015, 92% of corn, 94% of soybeans, and 94% of cotton produced in the US were genetically modified.
A GMO (genetically modified organism) is the result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal. The foreign genes may come from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans. 
A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism). In 2014, sales of products which had been labeled as non-GMO grew 30 percent to $1.1 billion. There is a general scientific agreement that food from genetically modified crops is not inherently riskier to human health than conventional food.
Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally, e.g. through the introduction of a gene from a different organism. 
1. Corn. One of the most prominent GMO foods, avoiding corn is a no-brainer. If you’ve watched any food documentary, you know corn is highly modified. “As many as half of all U.S. farms growing corn for Monsanto are using genetically modified corn,” and much of it is intended for human consumption. Wheat REALLY needs to be mentioned here as a GMO food. The VAST majority of the world's wheat crop has been genetically modified to increase yielde per acre – they call this dwarf wheat, and is an entirely different type of wheat than what our ancestors used to eat.
Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are living organisms whose genetic material has been artificially manipulated in a laboratory through genetic engineering. Almost all commercial GMOs are engineered to withstand direct application of herbicide and/or to produce an insecticide. Despite biotech industry promises, none of the GMO traits currently on the market offer increased yield, drought tolerance, enhanced nutrition, or any other consumer benefit.
Genetically modified foods (GMO foods) have been shown to cause harm to humans, animals, and the environment, and despite growing opposition, more and more foods continue to be genetically altered. Wheat REALLY needs to be mentioned here as a GMO food. The VAST majority of the world's wheat crop has been genetically modified to increase yielde per acre – they call this dwarf wheat, and is an entirely different type of wheat than what our ancestors used to eat.
The genetically modified foods controversy is a dispute over the use of food and other goods derived from genetically modified crops and other uses of genetic engineering in food production. As of 2011, the US is the leading country in the production of GM foods. Twenty-five GM crops had received regulatory approval. In 2015, 92% of corn, 94% of soybeans, and 94% of cotton produced in the US were genetically modified.