The true hammer dulcimer is a close relative to the psaltery, the chief difference being that the psaltery is usually plucked and the dulcimer is usually struck. Early varieties were rather simple, having relatively few strings which passed over bridges only at the sides. In fact, the modest revival of dulcimer playing in America seems due in large measure to the delightful manner in which dance tunes can be played on it. The hammer dulcimer is capable of a range of tones from a sort of music-box sound to powerful and percussive piano-like effects which can stand out in any band.
The hammered dulcimer has, as do some of its other zither relatives, a trapezoidal-shaped sound box with metal strings running parallel to the long side of the instrument in sets called courses of 2 to 4 strings each. The strings are divided into unequal lengths by at least 2 long, high bridges. Versions of the dulcimer can be found today all over the world, in Europe, in China, in Scandinavia, in Persia, in Egypt, in Mexico, and in the U.S. As a result, there is a variety of music that can be and is played throughout the world on the hammered dulcimer in its various forms.
The Appalachian dulcimer (many variant names; see below) is a fretted string instrument of the zither family, typically with three or four strings. Its origins are in the Appalachian region of the United States. 1 The Dulci-Jo is a banjo/dulcimer hybrid with a thumb string like a clawhammer banjo, 3 strings and a diatonic fret pattern, shaped more like a banjo and played upright, and built by Michael Fox of NC. 2  Resonator dulcimer: a standard dulcimer, with a resonator added to the body, in imitation of the resonator guitar.
The middle dulcimer (#2) is one of the Lacewood Sisters that we each have. This one has a lacewood top with butterfly soundholes and walnut body with the blackwood fretboard and church body. It is also made by Mike Clemmer. Next is #3 and this dulcimer is made of 100% koa with ebony fretboard and is made by Bob McGowan of Memphis, TN. On the right is the newest addition and I've gone with names now. This is Nutty Buddy. This dulcimer was made by Bill Rich (Papaw's Dulcimers) in Seymour, TN
Choosing a new dulcimer can be overwhelming, and many times I am asked to advise people on their choices. This video provides sound comparisons among McSpadden, Blue Lion, Papaw's Dulcimers, Magowan Dulcimers, and Clemmer dulcimers made from a variety of woods. 
The strings can be picked like guitar strings. For different sounds, some dulcimer players fingerpick the strings or even play them with a bow like a violin. The dulcimer ’s range makes it a good instrument for many different types of music. You’ll hear dulcimers in folk, classical, jazz, blues, ragtime, Cajun, gospel, and even rock and roll. 
Play it like a dulcimer--sounds like a banjo--very cool! Grace - Ginger model made by McSpadden. Purchased through Larry Conger and The Dulcimer Shoppe. Tuned GDG and mainly used in our ensemble pieces.Glory - Church-body style dulcimer made by Mike Clemmer. Lacewood top with walnut sides and back. It is also made by Mike Clemmer. Next is #3 and this dulcimer is made of 100% koa with ebony fretboard and is made by Bob McGowan of Memphis, TN. On the right is the newest addition and I've gone with names now. This is Nutty Buddy.
The hammered dulcimer has a trapezoidal-shaped sound box with metal strings running parallel to the long side of the instrument in sets called courses of 2 to 4 strings each. The strings are divided into unequal lengths by at least 2 long, high bridges. In Spain a dulcimer-like instrument is depicted on a cathedral relief from 1184 A.D. Hammered dulcimers were popular in England during the reign of James I, when the Bible was translated into English as the King James Bible.
Every instrument is made by me, from rough lumber to finished instrument. Each Mountain Dulcimer is crafted with an aesthetically pleasing overhang, like a violin/fiddle and is signed, numbered and dated. Most of the woods used are native to appalachia and harvested from the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains. Included with each instrument: 1  Instruction/ songbook. 2  Pick and noter.
The hammered dulcimer is a percussion instrument and stringed instrument with the strings stretched over a trapezoidal sounding board. Typically, the hammered dulcimer is set on a stand, at an angle, before the musician, who holds small mallet hammers in each hand to strike the strings (cf. Appalachian dulcimer). The Graeco-Roman dulcimer (sweet song) derives from the Latin dulcis (sweet) and the Greek melos (song).