Here’s how we took our fireplace from this: to this: As I mentioned in a previous entry, I painted the brick facade with trim paint. I used a 6″ fuzzy roller (thin, white, with an orange stripe) and a paintbrush and it took four coats. May need: sandpaper or wire brush, lead paint-blocking mask, screw driver, needle-nose pliers. Look into the fireplace and see how the door frame attaches. For us, a simple metal bracket (attached to the top, rear of the door) hooks under the top of the fireplace’s opening.
This video gives step by step instructions along with a visual demonstration of how to perform an inexpensive makeover to your fireplace. Ours is a brick fireplace that had previously been painted red and had a wooden mantle attached to it. 
Fireplaces can be finished in a variety of ways. Fireplaces will provide you with a lifetime of warmth, comfort and beauty. However, over time some people decide they want to spruce things up a bit and remodel aspects of their home. If you are working with an existing fireplace with no brick or stone surround, the surface can be repainted. You’ll first need to clean it thoroughly, then decide if you want to paint the entire surface or merely the trim.
Paint. If you are working with an existing fireplace with no brick or stone surround, the surface can be repainted. You’ll first need to clean it thoroughly, then decide if you want to paint the entire surface or merely the trim.
After rubbing a deglosser on it I painted it with three coats of white primer. Two coats of Aspen White paint. A few scraps of barn wood…. We cut the barn wood to size and used wood glue to attach it. After 24 hours I removed the clamps and filled the side cracks with wood fill to make the board look seamless. After sanding the wood fill I gave the top two thick coats of polyurethane. Mr. Wright then built a box base to give the fireplace more height. These electric fireplaces are so dinky in size. The box was painted a dark brown, then primed and painted the same color as the fireplace
This is an example of a traditional enclosed living room in Chicago with beige walls, a standard fireplace, a brick fireplace surround and no tv. — Houzz. The Beginning: Soaring cathedral ceilings in a room flooded with light from arched windows and a view to the woods beyond. hhm The Concept: Refresh the dark, dated, brick fireplace; add much-needed architectural details for visual impact; create a cozy, welcoming style within this expanse of space.
Extensions. If, during the process of your refinishing, you need to extend beyond the vertical limits of your existing fireplace and its existing surround made of fire-proof materials, the drywall needs to be removed and replaced with cement board. If you are working with an existing fireplace with no brick or stone surround, the surface can be repainted. You’ll first need to clean it thoroughly, then decide if you want to paint the entire surface or merely the trim.
The sunken great room captures light from French doors, ceiling-high windows and a Majestic® fireplace. The mudroom was customized to accommodate the family dogs. Upstairs, the master bedroom features a sunny window seat, and a second fireplace warms a bubbling “airbath” in the master bathroom. The shower glows with automated LED lights and the natural stone vanity sparkles with quartzite. The Beginning: Soaring cathedral ceilings in a room flooded with light from arched windows and a view to the woods beyond. hhm The Concept: Refresh the dark, dated, brick fireplace; add much-needed architectural details for visual impact; create a cozy, welcoming style within this expanse of space.
One way to create a new look and feel for a room is to refinish an existing fireplace with a new type of finish material. This allows you to avoid the costs of a full fireplace removal but at the same time transforms your room into something new. If you are working with an existing fireplace with no brick or stone surround, the surface can be repainted. You’ll first need to clean it thoroughly, then decide if you want to paint the entire surface or merely the trim.
Dampen the sponge in water, then wring it out so it is full and flexible but not drippy. Pour a small amount of accent paint (we used Valspar Smoked Oyster) into a paint tray. It's important to use a small, even amount of paint on the sponge. To do this, brush paint up onto the ribbed surface of the paint tray. Set the sponge on to the paint to absorb a small amount.