Common Plants What’s Poisonous and What’s Not? Many common plants found in the house or outdoors in the garden, woods and fields can cause problems if eaten, or after skin and eye contact. For your family’s safety, this list includes many common plants, and includes both poisonous and non-poisonous varieties, but if a plant is not listed don’t assume that it is not poisonous. Remember that small children have unlimited curiosity, so plants need to be well out of climbing reach.
Cats, for instance, are poisoned by any part of a lilly. Download our list of plants that are poisonous to pets (PDF). Our list of some of the common plants that may produce a toxic reaction in animals provides a guide to those plants that have been generally identified as being capable of producing a toxic reaction. We recommend that you print it and keep it in an accessible place. Grass is a safe snack for your pets, but a surprising number of plants are dangerous. Elizabeth Bergstom/The HSUS. More than 700 plants have been identified as producing physiologically active or toxic substances in sufficient amounts to cause harmful effects in animals.
9. Also known as Sowbread, the Cyclamen is a common household flowering plant with poisonous properties (i.e., terpenoids) to dogs. It can cause oral irritation, vomiting, diarrhea, heart abnormalities, seizures and death. Its cardiac glycosides, similar to digoxin, are very toxic to dogs and can cause fatal heart abnormalities, muscle tremors, incoordination, vomiting and bloody diarrhea. Also known as Sowbread, the Cyclamen is a common household flowering plant with poisonous properties (i.e., terpenoids) to dogs.
The asparagus fern (also called emerald feather, emerald fern, sprengeri fern, plumosa fern or lace fern) is toxic to dogs and cats. The toxic agent in the plant is sapogenin — a steroid found in a variety of plants. If a dog or cat ingests the berries of this plant, vomiting, diarrhea and/or abdominal pain can occur. Aloe plant (also known as medicine plant or Barbados aloe) is a common succulent that is toxic to dogs and cats. Aloin is the toxic agent in this plant. The bitter yellow substance is found in most aloe species and may cause vomiting and/or reddish urine. Dreamstime.
A common shade-loving household plant, Dumb Cane is a tropical plant that is among the most poisonous plants in the world. Chewing on any part of this leafy plant causes intense pain in the mouth and throat, excessive salivation, and in rare cases, severe swelling of the throat that can lead to strangulation. The flowering plants are considered among the most poisonous trees in the world and are native to Florida, the Bahamas, the Caribbean, Central America and northern South America. The Spanish name is manzanilla de la muerte: which means little apple of death..
One or more of the most common poisonous plant species are found throughout the United States (except Alaska and Hawaii). These plants can be found in forests, fields, wetlands and along streams, road sides, and even in urban environments, such as, parks and backyards. 
Common Poisonous Plants and Plant Parts. Vegetation helps sustain life. We eat many plants, herbs and so forth in our daily diet. But, we must remember to be choosy. Some plants, trees or shrubs are potential killers of man. Some part of the ornamental plants or flowers in your yard may contain deadly poison. Many poisonous plants are so common and seemingly innocuous you do not suspect their toxic qualities.
Cyclamen. Also known as Sowbread, the Cyclamen is a common household flowering plant with poisonous properties (i.e., terpenoids) to dogs. It can cause oral irritation, vomiting, diarrhea, heart abnormalities, seizures and death. Its cardiac glycosides, similar to digoxin, are very toxic to dogs and can cause fatal heart abnormalities, muscle tremors, incoordination, vomiting and bloody diarrhea. Also known as Sowbread, the Cyclamen is a common household flowering plant with poisonous properties (i.e., terpenoids) to dogs.
Heartleaf Philodendron. Heartleaf philodendron (also known as horsehead philodendron, cordatum, fiddle leaf, panda plant, split-leaf philodendron, fruit salad plant, red emerald, red princess or saddle leaf) is a common, easy-to-grow houseplant that is toxic to dogs and cats. Aloe plant (also known as medicine plant or Barbados aloe) is a common succulent that is toxic to dogs and cats. Aloin is the toxic agent in this plant. The bitter yellow substance is found in most aloe species and may cause vomiting and/or reddish urine. Dreamstime.