The Battle of Passchendaele, also known as the Third Battle of Ypres, was a campaign of the First World War, fought by the Allies against the German Empire. The Battle of Hill 70, was a subsidiary operation by the Canadian Corps against five divisions of the German 6th Army. The battle took place on the outskirts of Lens, Pas-de-Calais, from 15–25 August.
Battle of Passchendaele. The Battle of Passchendaele is a vivid symbol of the mud, madness and the senseless slaughter of the First World War. In the late summer of 1917, the British launched a series of failed assaults against German forces holding the plateau overlooking the city of Ypres, Belgium. The Battle of Passchendaele is a vivid symbol of the mud, madness and the senseless slaughter of the First World War. They succeeded in capturing it and the ruins of Passchendaele village from the Germans. A final assault, which secured the remaining areas of high ground east of the Ypres salient, was carried out on 10 November — the final day of the more than four-month battle.
It lasted until the Canadian Corps captured Passchendaele on 6 November 1917. The battle ended on 10 November, apart from small operations. Causing huge casualties for the Germans, the Allies had captured 5 miles (8 km) of some of the best defended territory in the world. They lost 140,000 men. The battle was fought for control of a village named Passchendaele. Passchendaele is near the town of Ypres in West Flanders, Belgium. The purpose of the battle was to wear out the enemy and to secure the Belgian coast and connect with the Dutch front lines.
Canadians have made many impressive accomplishments fighting in the cause of peace and freedom. A name from Canada’s First World War military heritage that still stirs emotions is “Passchendaele.” In a muddy corner of Belgium, Canadians overcame almost unimaginable hardships to capture this ruined village in 1917. In the fall of 1917, Canada’s army—after their great success at Vimy Ridge that April—was sent north to Belgium. It would be familiar ground for the Canadians who had seen harsh fighting there earlier in the war.
Despite the adversity, the Canadians reached the outskirts of Passchendaele by the end of a second attack on October 30 during a driving rainstorm. On November 6, the Canadians and British launched the assault to capture the ruined village of Passchendaele itself. In heavy fighting, the attack went according to plan. In the fall of 1917, Canada’s army—after their great success at Vimy Ridge that April—was sent north to Belgium. It would be familiar ground for the Canadians who had seen harsh fighting there earlier in the war.
Passchendaele. The Canadian Corps, a 100,000 strong fighting formation, was ordered to the Passchendaele front, east of Ypres, in mid-October 1917. 
The Second Battle of Passchendaele was the culminating attack during the Third Battle of Ypres of the First World War. The battle took place in the Ypres Salient area of the Western Front, in and around the Belgian town of Passchendaele, between 26 October and 10 November 1917. The assault position was directly south of the inter-army boundary between the British Fifth and Second Armies. As a result, the Canadian Corps was to attack with support of formations from the British Fifth Army to the north and the I Anzac Corps and X Corps to the south.
By the time the Canadians entered the battle on the Passchendaele Ridge, British and Australian troops had fought there for more than three months. 
The battle took place on the Western Front, from July to November 1917, for control of the ridges south and east of the Belgian city of Ypres in West Flanders, as part of a strategy decided by the Allies at conferences in November 1916 and May 1917. The Battle of Hill 70, was a subsidiary operation by the Canadian Corps against five divisions of the German 6th Army. The battle took place on the outskirts of Lens, Pas-de-Calais, from 15–25 August.
Passchendaele lay on the last ridge east of Ypres, 5 miles (8.0 km) from a railway junction at Roulers, which was vital to the supply system of the German 4th Army. The Battle of Hill 70, was a subsidiary operation by the Canadian Corps against five divisions of the German 6th Army. The battle took place on the outskirts of Lens, Pas-de-Calais, from 15–25 August.