Crete – the southernmost island in Europe has “everything”! Its bountiful variety of features includes mountain villages, long sandy beaches, rocky bays, beach-bar-boogie and nightlife. There are magnificent mountain ranges, water-sports, tranquil locations and clean swimmable seas. Crete history is very much related to famous myths like when the King of Crete, Minos, refused to sacrifice a bull to the Greek gods. Poseidon in turn forced Minos's wife to fall in love with a bull which created the mythical beast, the Minotaur.
8. Plakias is a lovely tourist place on the southern side of Rethymno, Crete island. The seaside village has many tourist facilities and a calm environment, away from the noisy world. Just in front of the village, there is a large and sandy beach with crystal waters. This place amazes visitors with the stunning natural beauty. Another of the most beautiful beaches of Crete is the exotic beach of Elafonissi in Chania, on the westernmost spot of Crete, as well as the long, sandy beach of Falassarna. Finding a perfect beach is not a problem for visitors, as there are nice clean beaches in Crete all around the island
Holidays in Crete Island. Crete is the largest Greek island of Greece, located in the southern side of the Aegean Sea. One of the most popular destinations of the country, holidays in Crete is the dream of a lifetime for millions of tourists. The island of Crete, in Greece, is large in size and divided in four administrational regions: Chania and Rethymno on the western side, Heraklion and Lassithi on the eastern side. The northern coasts of Crete are more developed in tourism, while the southern coasts keep a more secluded environment.
Crete is the largest island in Greece, and the fifth largest one in the Mediterranean Sea. Here, you can admire the remnants of brilliant civilizations, explore glorious beaches, impressive mountainscapes, fertile valleys and steep gorges, and become part of the island’s rich gastronomic culture. Nowadays, it is the fourth largest port of the island and is connected by boats... Prefecture of Chania. The Prefecture of Chania (also spelled Hania) haniá is the western most division of the island Of. Crete The prefecture Of rethymno forms its eastern, border whilst sea lap its remaining. areas
Information about the Beaches in Crete island, in Greece but also information about beaches in many locations of the island: Crete is the largest island of Greece and its coastline of 1,046 m (650 miles) provides hundreds of beautiful beaches. This place amazes visitors with the stunning natural beauty. Another of the most beautiful beaches of Crete is the exotic beach of Elafonissi in Chania, on the westernmost spot of Crete, as well as the long, sandy beach of Falassarna. Finding a perfect beach is not a problem for visitors, as there are nice clean beaches in Crete all around the island
Loutro, Crete. Image courtesy of Alan Howard on Flickr. Famous as the cradle of civilization in the eastern Med, Crete was settled 9,000 years ago by the Minoans. Now the islands is scattered with ancient ruins, dramatic mountain scenery, and numerous sandy beaches. So here is my top ten of the most beautiful places on Crete. 
Crete, Greece. Crete is among the most beloved and popular tourist destinations in the Mediterranean. Beautiful beaches, the varied and picturesque scenery, mild Mediterranean climate, rich history and culture, delicious local cuisine, form together the perfect place to vacation in Europe. The second largest city of Crete is Khania. It is believed that this is the most beautiful city on the island and one of the most beautiful cities in Greece and the Mediterranean. It has a population of about 70 000 people. But beautiful is not only the city, but also its surrounding area.
Renowned for its beautiful beaches, charming villages and rugged interior terrain, the island of Crete draws nearly one quarter of all visitors to Greece. Crete's coastline boasts close to 100 miles of beaches-sandy and mostly developed along the northern coast; quieter, more pebbly but less tourist-driven along the south. Although beautiful beaches abound, one of the most popular stretches of sand is Rethimno, nestled along the center of the island's northern coast.