In particular, the myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart and is found in between the epicardium and the endocardium. Similar to other types of muscles, the cardiac muscle is formed by the process of myogenesis and originates from its primordial cell, the cardiomyoblast. The cardiac muscle is the muscle of the heart. Both cardiac muscle and the skeletal muscle have rather conspicuous striations when viewed under the microscope (in which the smooth muscle is lacking, thus the name).
cardiac muscle. n. The muscle of the heart, consisting of anastomosing transversely striated muscle fibers formed of cells united at intercalated disks; the myocardium. Also called muscle of heart.
Cardiac muscle (heart muscle). This type of muscle is found solely in the walls of the heart. It has similarities with skeletal muscles in that it is striated and with smooth muscles in that its contractions are not under conscious control. However this type of muscle is highly specialised.
Cardiac muscle: A type of muscle tissue that is found only in the heart and is distinguishable from the two other forms of muscle, smooth muscle (that moves internal organs, such as the bowels, and vessels, such as the artery walls) and skeletal muscle (that powers joints). 
Cardiac muscle. Cardiac muscle is a type of involuntary striated muscle found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. These three types of muscle all form in a process known as myogenesis
Heart muscle: A type of muscle with unique features only found in the heart. The heart muscle, or cardiac muscle, is medically called the myocardium (myo- being the prefix denoting muscle). 
Definition of CARDIAC MUSCLE. : the principal involuntary-muscle tissue of the vertebrate heart made up of striated fibers joined at usually branched ends and functioning in synchronized rhythmic contraction. ADVERTISEMENT. noun
Cardiac muscle. Definition. noun, plural: cardiac muscles. (1) The heart muscle of the vertebrates. (2) myocardium. Supplement. The muscles of the vertebrates can be classified into three major types: (1) skeletal muscle, (2) smooth muscle, and (3) cardiac muscle. The cardiac muscle is the muscle of the heart. Both cardiac muscle and the skeletal muscle have rather conspicuous striations when viewed under the microscope (in which the smooth muscle is lacking, thus the name).
An isolated cardiac muscle cell, beating. Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This complex mechanism illustrates systole of the heart.