As Android was developed on Linux therefore installing the Android is just like Booting the Linux Operating System on your Computer! You can create a bootable DVD/CD by burning the iso image copy of the Android OS(Downloaded) with the help any image burner. And continue to the process of installation of Android.
Customers prefer a single OS in devices, and there have been some inquiries for dual-boot tablets, said Perry Zhiang, overseas sales director at Boeye, which is based in Shenzhen. With the 10.1-inch screen size, there was interest in Windows for productivity apps, and Android for mobile apps, Zhiang said.
You might have tried to dual boot Windows on your computer with the Linux Operating and Windows Operating System with Other version of the Windows Operating Systems, But have you tried to Dual boot your computer with a Top Mobile Operating System i.e Android on your Computer along with the Windows and Linux.
Many Chinese tablet makers, who showed only Windows or Android tablets, found building dual-boot tablets was expensive, if one took into account the OS and hardware costs.
If you have more than one operating system on your computer, you can set the operating system that you want to use as the default one for when you start your computer: Boot Partition. The boot partition contains the Windows operating system and its support files.
Grub2Win-Download it from here. Step By Step Method To Dual Boot Android And Windows On PC: 1. First you have to create a bootable pendrive.You can find a detailed tutorial to easily make bootable pendrive here. 2.
Dual-boot PCs and tablets could potentially give users the best of both worlds with Android and Windows OSes. But they won't catch on as there is little use for such systems, analysts said. The coming-out party for dual-boot PCs and tablets was at International CES in January, where many such systems were introduced.
With the release of Gen.Y DualBOOT, dual booting between Windows Mobile and Android is finally a reality as we posted about earlier. In this video we demonstrate how DualBOOT works.
At the Computex trade show in Taipei, a handful of small tablet makers from Shenzhen, China, were showing prototype tablets with 8-inch to 10-inch screens that could boot into Windows 8.1 or Android 4.4 or 4.2.