How much does it cost, and how long does it take, to construct a maglev train line in a city? Such as the one in Shanghai that goes to and from the airport. If that number is accurate, it would make the maglev roughly similar in cost to an underground urban metro line. I think construction times would also be similar-in either case the tunneling or construction of elevated tracks would take the most time.
Maglev operating costs will be only 3 cents per passenger mile and 7 cents per ton mile, compared to 15 cents per passenger mile for airplanes, and 30 cents per ton mile for intercity trucks. (1) Much lower guideway cost$12 million per mile, compared to $40 million to $60 million per mile. (2) Much faster payback times5 years instead of 50, by carrying piggyback trucks. (3) Electronic switching of vehicles at high speeds from the main guideway to off-line stations for loading and unloading.
For a M-2000 guideway cost of 10 million dollars per 2-way mile, that carries only passengers, amortization cost is about 10 cents per passenger mile, assuming a 30-year payback period and 10,000 passengers daily. If M-2000 guideways carry both passengers and truck type freight, Maglev will be much cheaper than air travel. Although jet aircraft speed is greater than Maglev (500 mph compared to 300 mph) the actual trip time will be much less for Maglev. First, access to Maglev stations will be much easier and faster than airports.
The Shanghai Maglev Train, also known as the Transrapid, is the fastest commercial train currently in operation and has a top speed of 430 km/h (270 mph). The proposed Chuo Shinkansen maglev in Japan was estimated to cost approximately US$82 billion to build, with a route requiring long tunnels. A Tokaido maglev route replacing the current Shinkansen would cost 1/10 the cost, as no new tunnel would be needed, but noise pollution issues made this infeasible. The only low-speed maglev (100 km/h or 62 mph) currently operational, the Japanese Linimo HSST, cost approximately US$100 million/km to build
Will it be faster or slower, more comfortable? A. The average cost for air travel is about 13 cents per passenger mile. This includes labor, airplanes, fuel, and other costs, and corresponds to a ticket price of about $600 round trip, for a coast-to-coast flight. If M-2000 guideways carry both passengers and truck type freight, Maglev will be much cheaper than air travel. Although jet aircraft speed is greater than Maglev (500 mph compared to 300 mph) the actual trip time will be much less for Maglev. First, access to Maglev stations will be much easier and faster than airports.
The maglev cost $1.2 billion or more to build, which means the system chews through north of $60 million a year in capital costs alone. Assuming 12,000 passengers per day (my estimate), the maglev generates about $27 million of revenue per year, or less than half its capital costs, much less its total costs. But alas, China dropped that plan—the Beijing-Shanghai maglev would have cost almost $50 billion, three times as much as a traditional fast train—while keeping the snazzy technology. So, it's not clear how much Transrapid really got out of the deal.
How much does it cost for build maglev train and 9.5miles rail? If you are only trying to build the right-of-way and not buy real estate, or construct buildings or stations, or pay for control, communications, and power systems or the magl … ev train, it is not expensive. This fits in the US typical cost today of $10 million per mile for maglev (and that is the low end), as you should be able to get everything done for about $100 million. The good news is operating costs are very low and wear is low, so a return-on-investment is very fast compared to conventional railroad investment.
So a max of 1000 seats on the train. Per seat this would total to $500, one way trip. But that’s when trains are loaded to the max, every hour, every day. Average ridership would be a quarter if not less: $2000 per seat. Conclusion. So to sum it all up: A current Shinkansen ride costs $185, one way ticket and it will take 2.5 hrs. The new Maglev train will cost $2000 and it will take 1 hr. There is already a perfectly fine Shinkansen running up and down. For 14.250 Yen ($185) you can ride the 553 kilometers to Shin Osaka in about 2.5 hrs. This new train should do it in 1 hr.