Examples of ABATE. 1  We waited for the wind to abate. 2  abated. 3  For a while, in the Cold War's aftermath, the public fascination for espionage may abate, though somehow I doubt it. 1 For a while, in the Cold War's aftermath, the public fascination for espionage may abate, though somehow I doubt it. — 2 John le Carre, Carré Boston, globe 19. nov. 3  1989 at about, six as the heat, abated people began to crowd the streets and, marketplaces and to fill the.  cafes cafés
How or when my frenzy for him began to abate I cannot say, but it certainly waned, and it must have waned rapidly, for after no great while I found myself feeling the charm of quite different minds, as fully as if his had never enslaved me. My Literary Passions by Howells,William Dean View in context. 
ABATE is a motorcycle organization composed of motorcycle enthusiasts throughout the country. Putting motorcycle legislation in its proper perspective is our main concern. ABATE is a neutral organization that allows all riders to unite in a brotherhood to safeguard our rights and still be individuals with different views. ABATE feels that all motorcyclists are brothers and sisters with common interest. . . riding free!
How or when my frenzy for him began to abate I cannot say, but it certainly waned, and it must have waned rapidly, for after no great while I found myself feeling the charm of quite different minds, as fully as if his had never enslaved me. 
In 1976 ABATE was responsible for the repeal of the state's mandatory helmet law and continues to defend the equal rights of motorcyclists-preserving their freedom of choice. ABATE of Indiana believes education, not legislation, is the key to creating a safer environment for motorcycling. In addition to promoting motorcycle safety and education, ABATE has also been involved with collecting money for charities and those in need. [ABATE of Indiana was offically started on June 25, 1975]. Accomplishments. ABATE of Indiana's motorcycle safety program has received numerous national awards of excellence and many of the instructors have received the nation's highest honors. Nearly 125,000 students have graduated since it's inception in 1979.
How or when my frenzy for him began to abate I cannot say, but it certainly waned, and it must have waned rapidly, for after no great while I found myself feeling the charm of quite different minds, as fully as if his had never enslaved me. My Literary Passions by Howells,William Dean View in context. 
1 We waited for the wind to abate. 2  abated. 3  For a while, in the Cold War's aftermath, the public fascination for espionage may abate, though somehow I doubt it. — 4 John le Carre, Carré Boston, globe 19. nov. 5  1989 at about, six as the heat, abated people began to crowd the streets and, marketplaces and to fill the.  cafes cafés 1 For a while, in the Cold War's aftermath, the public fascination for espionage may abate, though somehow I doubt it. — 2 John le Carre, Carré Boston, globe 19. nov. 3
verb. The definition of abate means to become less or lower in amount or force than at a prior time. An example of abate is when a hurricane becomes a tropical storm
ABATE (American Bikers Aimed Toward Education) of Indiana is a not-for-profit, safety, educational, charitable and advocacy motorcyclist organization. It's aims are to promote safety, protect rights and help others. [ABATE of Indiana was offically started on June 25, 1975]. Accomplishments. ABATE of Indiana's motorcycle safety program has received numerous national awards of excellence and many of the instructors have received the nation's highest honors. Nearly 125,000 students have graduated since it's inception in 1979.