Temperature is constant, because during a phase change substance absorbs heat energy and converts it to potential energy. Temperature can be used to recognize a phase change because during  the phase change the temperature of the substance does not change. Edit. Share to: 1  A Basic Phase Change Definition Scientists often are very interested in the chemical makeup of matter, but they are also interested in the physical makeup of substances.
You are boiling water and notice it is 100 degrees Celsius. As a liquid the highest it can go is 99.99999999999999999999 degrees Celsius. But the moment it hits 100 degrees Celsius, then it becomes gaseous. Once it is a gas, then its temperature can be higher than 100 degrees celsius. The point of temperature where liquid becomes gas is called as Boiling Point. eg., WATER becomes WATER VAPOUR at 100c and above. Its the boiling point. The point of temperature where solid becomes gas(without intervention of liquid) is called as Sublimation Point.
In fact, as a substance such as ice is heated, its temperature will only increase until a phase change occurs. During a phase change, the temperature of a substance does not change. When the temperature of a substance that is being cooled or heated does not change, it is undergoing a phase change. 
When a substance undergoes a FIRST ORDER phase change, its temperature remains constant as long as the phase change remains incomplete. When ice at -10 degrees C is heated, its temperature rises until it reaches 0 degrees C. At that temperature, it starts melting and solid water is converted to liquid water. 
The temperature of a substance does not change during a phase change, until the change is complete. Ideally, during phase change the temperature is stable until the change is … complete. Though pressure has to be kept constant. 3 people found this useful. The temperature, in Physics, means the measure of Kinetic Energy in a substance. When a substance is either heated or cooled, Kinetic Energy is either being added to taken awa … y from the substance. When the amount of KE in the substance changes, the temperature change.
The … opposite also occurs: heat is transferred from a substance during a phase change without a decrease in temperature as intermolecular bonds form. Temperature can be used to recognize a phase change because during  the phase change the temperature of the substance does not change. Edit. Share to: 1  A Basic Phase Change Definition Scientists often are very interested in the chemical makeup of matter, but they are also interested in the physical makeup of substances.
The temperature of a substance does not change during a phase change, until the change is complete. Ideally, during phase change the temperature is stable until the change is … complete. Though pressure has to be kept constant. Temperature can be used to recognize a phase change because during  the phase change the temperature of the substance does not change. Edit. Share to: 1  A Basic Phase Change Definition Scientists often are very interested in the chemical makeup of matter, but they are also interested in the physical makeup of substances.
Therefore,:. When a substance changes phase (state) there is no change in temperature. So the average kinetic energy of the molecules remain the same. And thus, the average speed of the molecules remain the same. The heat causing change in phase is used in changing the molecule's potential energy. Heat, which is energy, either comes into the material during a change of phase or heat comes out of the material during this change. However, although the heat content of the material changes, the temperature does not. Remember that heat is energy, and remember that there are two types of energy-kinetic and potential.