The world's largest steppe region, often referred to as the Great Steppe , is found in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, and neighbouring countries stretching from Ukraine in the west through Russia, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to the Altai, Koppet Dag and Tian Shan ranges. In Asia, a subtropical steppe can be found in semi-arid lands that fringe the Thar Desert of the Indian subcontinent. In Australia, subtropical steppe can be found in a belt surrounding the most severe deserts of the continent and around the Musgrave Ranges.
The Web's Best Sites. Additional Readings. Steppe is a mid-latitude cold-and-dry region in which there is usually a winter drought. The region covers the Great Plains, much of the Great Basin, and portions of the Columbia Plateau. Helena, Montana, receives less than 14 inches (36 centimeters) of precipitation per year. 
The mid-latitude steppes can be summarised by hot summers and cold winters, averaging 250–500 mm (10-20 inches) of precipitation per year. Precipitation level alone is not what defines a steppe climate; potential evapotranspiration must also be taken into account. In Asia, a subtropical steppe can be found in semi-arid lands that fringe the Thar Desert of the Indian subcontinent. In Australia, subtropical steppe can be found in a belt surrounding the most severe deserts of the continent and around the Musgrave Ranges.
(Sources (FAO). The tropical steppe climate is a transitional climate between the tropical wet and tropical dry climates. The controlling factors of the climate are similar to that of the tropical dry climate, though temperatures are cooler and annual precipitation is higher. The tropical steppe is not as dry as the tropical desert climate as it lies closer to a source of moisture. If on the equatorward side of the desert it is the ITCZ, or the subpolar low and midlatitude cyclones if it is located poleward side.
In physical geography, a steppe (Russian: степь, step' ; [sʲtʲepʲ]. ) is an ecoregion, in the montane grasslands and shrublands and temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biomes, characterized by grassland plains without trees apart from those near rivers and lakes. In Asia, a subtropical steppe can be found in semi-arid lands that fringe the Thar Desert of the Indian subcontinent. In Australia, subtropical steppe can be found in a belt surrounding the most severe deserts of the continent and around the Musgrave Ranges.
Plants. Animals. Climate. Grasslands. The Steppe biome is a dry, cold, grassland that is found in all of the continents except Australia and Antarctica. It is mostly found in the USA, Mongolia, Siberia, Tibet and China. There isn't much humidity in the air because Steppe is located away from the ocean and close to mountain barriers. 
A steppe climate is found in the middle of continents and in the lee of high mountains. The mountains block moist air from oceans or tropical climates from reaching the steppe. There is not enough precipitation for trees to grow except by rivers. 
The Eurasian Steppe, also called the Great Steppe or the steppes, is the vast steppe ecoregion of Eurasia in the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome. It stretches from Moldavia through Ukraine to Siberia, with one major exclave located mostly in Hungary, the Puszta. The steppe has connected Europe, Central Asia, China, South Asia, and the Middle East economically, politically, and culturally through overland trade routes, most notably the Silk Road during antiquity and the Middle Ages, and the Eurasian Land Bridge in the modern era.
Geography. The Steppe (aka the Eurasian Steppe) is a vast strip of land stretching from Ukraine to Mongolia. The term steppe denotes grassland: a low-precipitation region with enough rain for grass, but not enough for trees (see Climates and Biomes)