Like yogurt, which is made from fermented milk, kefir contains lots of bacteria that aid lactose digestion. Yogurt doesn't produce symptoms of lactose intolerance because these bacteria help digest the lactose. However, kefir has a broader range of nutrients than does yogurt, he says. WebMD Health News. May 30, 2003 -- For people with lactose intolerance, a yogurt-like drink called kefir could put dairy in their diet again. Lactose intolerance is a very common digestive problem caused by too little of an enzyme called lactase, which the body needs to digest lactose -- milk sugar.
No, this is not true. Yogurt is a milk product and does contain Lactose. Yogurt, plain, low-fat, 1 cup 415 mg and has 5 g Lactose. Lactose intolerance is the inability to digest significant amounts of lactose, the major sugar found in milk. This is because it is made with bacteria cultures, which feed on the lactose to make acids which turn milk into yogurt. Yogurt does not cure lactose intolerance (there is no cure). However, lactose intolerant people can eat yogurt with no problems. Source(s): I'm lactose intolerant.
Confidence votes 29.8K. While yoghurt has less lactose than the milk from which it is made, it does contain some lactose, because the fermentation process is not 100% complete. 
Best Answer: Lactose intolerance means that your body does not digest lactose. The lactose feeds bacteria in your intestine, which can cause painful gas or even diarrhea. Yogurt does not have lactose in it (or at least not a considerable amount). This is because it is made with bacteria cultures, which feed on the lactose to make acids which turn milk into yogurt. Yogurt does not cure lactose intolerance (there is no cure). However, lactose intolerant people can eat yogurt with no problems. Source(s): I'm lactose intolerant.
Greek yogurt contains less lactose than most other dairy products, according to Chobani.com, a national brand of Greek yogurt. AskDrSears.com explains that yogurt contains live and active culture that convert the lactose into lactic acid, which is easy for the body to absorb. Most cultured dairy products such as Greek yogurt have significantly less lactose, a sugar found in milk, than other dairy products do. Some people diagnosed with lactose intolerance can tolerate more lactose than others can.
Yogurt and Lactose Intolerance. Many people who are lactose intolerant can enjoy yogurt. Yogurt contains lower amounts of lactose than milk because the lactose in yogurt is converted to lactic acid by the bacterial cultures. Lactic acid bacteria in yogurt, acidophilus milk and fermented milk products such as kefir can help lessen the effects of lactose i
Bloating, diarrhea and stomach pain from eating Greek yogurt may be a sign of lactose intolerance. Most cultured dairy products such as Greek yogurt have significantly less lactose, a sugar found in milk, than other dairy products do. Some people diagnosed with lactose intolerance can tolerate more lactose than others can.
The bacteria used to make yogurt are known as yogurt cultures. Fermentation of lactose by these bacteria produces lactic acid, which acts on milk protein to give yogurt its texture and characteristic tang. Worldwide, cow 's milk, the protein of which is mainly casein, is most commonly used to make yogurt. The milk in the biblical reference to the land flowing with milk and honey was actually a fermented yogurt style drink. Yogurt contains far less lactose and lasts longer than sweet milk, or fresh milk, allowing the Israelites the opportunity to consume the beverage for an extended period of time.
Yogurt is easier to ingest than milk if you're lactose intolerant. Having lactose intolerance doesn't mean saying goodbye to dairy forever. Some dairy foods are easier to digest than others, including yogurt and aged cheese. Lactose-intolerant people vary in how much lactose they can tolerate, but dairy and aged cheese are easier to digest because processing has already broken down some of the lactose. 
Straining Greek yogurt makes it thicker and removes some milk sugar. All natural dairy products contain the milk sugar lactose, which your body has to break down before you can absorb it. To do this, your intestines produce an enzyme called lactase. The bacteria in live cultures predigest much of the lactose in yogurt even before you eat, registered dietitian Tamara Freuman explains. Avoid Greek yogurts or other style yogurts that contain whey protein concentrate, since the whey contains most of the lactose.