Vitamin A may be able to relieve soreness in your muscles and your joints. Necessary for healthy vision, skin and immunity, vitamin A also assists with the growth and care of muscle tissue as well as the development of new bone growth.
Dealing with problems of the joints, tendons, muscles, cartilage and supportive structures has to do with prevention as well as feeding the musculoskeletal system with supportive nutrients. (See ProMin Complex). Diet and nutrition has much to do with the health of these important structures.
Combine ingredients rich in vitamin C, calcium and omega-3 fatty acids to make healthy meals to benefit your joints, muscles and skeleton. Start your day with a healthy fruit smoothie -- combine strawberries, fortified soy milk and ground flax, or simply add these ingredients to your morning oatmeal.
B vitamins may be able to help reduce soreness and inflammation in your muscles and joints. Essential for healthy skin, immunity and metabolism, B vitamins also contribute toward muscle tone and may reduce inflammation around joints.
Bones, joints and muscles make up your musculoskeletal system. Together, these tissues allow for movement, support an active lifestyle and also maintain your posture. Keeping your bones, joints and muscles healthy proves important, since issues that involve these tissues can affect your mobility and quality of life.
If you have joint pain from rheumatoid arthritis (RA), eat more fish. Fatty cold-water types like salmon and mackerel are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3s may help keep joints healthy, as well as lower inflammation, a cause of joint pain and tenderness in people with RA.
A joint (joynt) is where two or more bones are joined together. Joints can be rigid, like the joints between the bones in your skull, or movable, like knees, hips, and shoulders. Many joints have cartilage (KAHRT-lij) on the ends of the bones where they come together.
Flex Some Muscle. Stronger muscles give your joints better support. Building even a little more strength makes a difference. A physical therapist or certified trainer can show you what moves to do and how to do them.