Somali. The Somali language, one of the major languages in Africa, is spoken in Somalia /Somaliland, Kenya, Ethiopia and the Republic of Djibouti. In fact, it is one of the few that have 10 million or more native speakers in Africa. 
According to the 2011 census, English is spoken as a home language by almost 5- million people (or 8.2% of the population). South Africa's Asian people, most of whom are Indian in origin, are largely English-speaking, although many also retain their languages of origin. Afrikaans. Afrikaans is the third most common language in South Africa. It is spoken by 13.5% of the population, or 6 855 082 people mainly coloured and white South Africans. The language has its roots in 17th century Dutch, with influences from English, Malay, German, Portuguese, French, and some African languages.
© South African Tourism. There are 11 official languages spoken in South Africa and many unofficial ones. English is the official language of business, politics and media, but on South Africa's streets you'll find a heady mix of languages spoken from all over the world, most notably Africa, Europe and Asia.
In North Africa Arabic is the common native language spoken in all the seven countries of that region and most of the countries of that region have french as a official language there. In other parts of Africa though like West, Central, & Southern Africa there is no common language spoken in all those regions or within those regions, especially in West Africa.
Afrikaans is the dominant language in the Northern Cape, spoken by more than half (53%) of the provincial population. Afrikaans is spoken by 12.4% of the Free State's population, 10.4% of the people of the Eastern Cape, and 8.8% of the people of North West. Afrikaans. Afrikaans is the third most common language in South Africa. It is spoken by 13.5% of the population, or 6 855 082 people mainly coloured and white South Africans. The language has its roots in 17th century Dutch, with influences from English, Malay, German, Portuguese, French, and some African languages.
gbogboti: Swahili is most widely spoken African language. Swahili is spoken in these countries: Tanzania 99%, Kenya 87%, Uganda 85%, Burundi 55%, Democratic Republic of the Congo 48%, Rwanda 28%, Swahili is also spoken in southern Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan and northern Mozambique and the Comoros Islands. 
In most of East Africa, Swahili is the the major language spoken by most tribes there or that region, and four countries(Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo) of that region have that native language as a official language(but that is not the only native language spoken in that region). In other parts of Africa though like West, Central, & Southern Africa there is no common language spoken in all those regions or within those regions, especially in West Africa.
Sesotho sa Leboa is the fourth most common language in South Africa, spoken as a home language by 9.1% of the population, or 4.6-million people. It is one of South Africa's three Sotho languages, with different dialect clusters found in the area where it is spoken. Afrikaans. Afrikaans is the third most common language in South Africa. It is spoken by 13.5% of the population, or 6 855 082 people mainly coloured and white South Africans. The language has its roots in 17th century Dutch, with influences from English, Malay, German, Portuguese, French, and some African languages.
Africa is second largest and second most populous continent in the world with a total population of 1.111 billion. African languages belong to one of the four language families: Afroasiatic, Nilo-Saharan, Niger-Congo and Khoisan. Around 2,000 languages are spoken in Africa. 