Age is completely irrelevant. So if your child earns some cash from a summer job, or part-time work after school -- or whatever really -- the kid is entitled to make a Roth contribution. For the 2012 tax year, your child can contribute the lesser of: (1) earned income or (2) $5,000. These contribution limits apply equally to Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs, but the Roth alternative is the way kids should go in most cases -- for reasons I'll explain. 
Earned Income. A child must have earned income to be eligible to contribute to a custodial IRA. The Internal Revenue Service defines earned income to include wages, commissions, tips, salaries and self-employment income. If the child receives Forms W-2 or 1099, you automatically have records of earned i
Traditional IRAs haven’t been attractive investment vehicles for minors, in part because young children seldom have enough income to benefit from the deduction. A Roth IRA for a child can be very attractive, however. There’s no minimum age to set up a Roth IRA, and many IRA providers will accept accounts for minors. In most cases the only issue is whether the child has taxable compensation income. 
A Roth IRA for a child with earned income can be very attractive. There's no minimum age to set up a Roth IRA, and many IRA providers will accept accounts for minors. In most cases, the only issue is whether the child has taxable compensation. Potential for Tax-Free Compounding. An unmarried person must have earned income of his or her own to contribute to a Roth IRA. The income has to be income earned from employment, not investment income, and it has to be taxable compensation income. However, that doesn't mean your child has to actually pay tax on the income.
Contribution Limits. Money given by a parent to a child to contribute to an IRA counts toward the annual contribution limit. For example, assume the contribution limit for your child is $5,000. If your child has already contributed $4,000 to her IRA, she can only add another $1,000 from her parents' gift. Once you've given the money to your child, she can only put it in his IRA if she qualifies to make an IRA contribution. The most likely barrier to making a contribution to a traditional or Roth IRA is that the child must have earned income equal to or greater than the
If that figure is $112,000 or less, the child can contribute up to the maximum $5,500. If, however, the child's modified adjusted gross income is greater than $112,000, the maximum contribution allowed will be reduced, and no contribution will be allowed if his modified adjusted gross income exceeds $127,000. For 2013, a child can contribute up to $5,500 of his or her after-tax earned income, and the maximum contribution is based on the child's modified adjusted gross income (a number found by taking the adjusted gross income and adding back deductions such as interest on student loans and college tuition and fees).
While IRAs are well-known among adult investors, they also make excellent savings vehicles for children who, because of their age, are poised to take full advantage of time – and the power of compounding. Your child – regardless of age – can contribute to an IRA provided he or she has earned income from a job. Here, we take a look at two types of IRAs for kids, the benefits these tax-advantaged investment vehicles offer, and how to open and make contributions to an IRA for kids. Types of IRAs for Kids.
Parent Must Give Money. Parents can't put money directly into their child's IRA like they can with a child's savings account. Money that parents give to their child is potentially subject to gift taxes. As of 2012, you can give up to $13,000 to a person, including your child, tax-free. Once you've given the money to your child, she can only put it in his IRA if she qualifies to make an IRA contribution. The most likely barrier to making a contribution to a traditional or Roth IRA is that the child must have earned income equal to or greater than the
Children of any age can contribute to an IRA as long as they have earned income from a job, be it babysitting, yard work or walking neighborhood dogs. For 2013, the maximum your child can contribute to an IRA (either traditional or Roth) is the lesser of $5,500 or his or her taxable earnings for the year. Your child – regardless of age – can contribute to an IRA provided he or she has earned income from a job. Here, we take a look at two types of IRAs for kids, the benefits these tax-advantaged investment vehicles offer, and how to open and make contributions to an IRA for kids. Types of IRAs for Kids.
Yes, your daughter has until April 15 to contribute to a Roth IRA for 2007. But she can contribute only the amount of her earnings -- in this case, $1,500. If she has already spent the money, or if she's saving it for college or some other goal, you can come up with the cash to fund the account. So it's worth emphasizing that in order to open a Roth the critical factor is earnings: A child can have a Roth IRA as long as he or she has earned income from a job. Birthday gifts from grandparents or interest on a savings account don't count, nor does an allowance for doing general household chores.