Hereditary fructose intolerance should not be confused with a condition called fructose malabsorption. In people with fructose malabsorption, the cells of the intestine cannot absorb fructose normally, leading to bloating, diarrhea or constipation, flatulence, and stomach pain. 
Fructose malabsorption, formerly named dietary fructose intolerance (DFI), is a digestive disorder in which absorption of fructose is impaired by deficient fructose carriers in the small intestine's enterocytes. This results in an increased concentration of fructose in the entire intestine. Occurrence in patients identified to be suffering symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome is not higher than occurrence in the normal population. However, due to the similarity in symptoms, patients with fructose malabsorption often fit the profile of those with irritable bowel syndrome. A small proportion of patients with both fructose malabsorption and lactose intolerance also suffer from celiac diseas
Fructose malabsorption is a common digestive disorder in which absorption of fructose (or other sugars like lactose or sorbitol) in the small intestine is impaired. About 30-40% of people suffer from FM. Symptoms of fructose malabsorption. The symptoms of fructose malabsorption have some similarities to those of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) , food allergies, food intolerance, and the inability to digest properly (weak digestion) . These symptoms can also be caused by yeast sensitivity or candida, from which around 1 in 3 people suffer
Hereditary Fructose Intolerance (HFI) should not be confused with Fructose Malabsorption. They are two different conditions but with some similar symptoms. In HFI fructose is not properly metabolised once inside our blood. This is due to a deficiency of an enzyme called aldolase B produced by the liver. 
Fructose Malabsorption. When we eat fruit, fructose (the sugar found in fruit) passes through the walls of the small intestine lining into the blood stream. Once in the blood it is converted into glucose which the body utilises to burn for energy (like a fuel of a motor). 
Symptoms of fructose malabsorption vary from person to person. Many of the symptoms are IBS-like symptoms and, in fact, fructose malabsorption may be one of the leading causes of irritable bowel syndrome. The test for fructose malabsorption is a simple hydrogen breath test – the same test used for lactose intolerance. The poor man’s way to test for fructose malabsorption is by eliminating fructose and observing symptoms.
Fructose malabsorption (FM) was previously known as ‘dietary fructose intolerance’ (DFI), but this term should be avoided to prevent confusion with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) . Fructose is a monosacharide or a single sugar, also called fruit sugar. Fructose has the same chemical formula as glucose (C6H12O6), but different molecular structure. They both have about the same caloric value, but fructose is sweeter.
Fructose is absorbed in the small intestine without help of digestive enzymes. Even in healthy persons, however, only about 25–50 g of fructose per sitting can be properly absorbed. People with fructose malabsorption absorb less than 25 g per sitting. Occurrence in patients identified to be suffering symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome is not higher than occurrence in the normal population. However, due to the similarity in symptoms, patients with fructose malabsorption often fit the profile of those with irritable bowel syndrome. A small proportion of patients with both fructose malabsorption and lactose intolerance also suffer from celiac disease