Vehicles exempt from paying the tax: Old vehicles constructed before 1 January 1973 (historic vehicles) All vehicles except buses and lorries used commercially, that were constructed before 1 January 1973 may tax in the 'historic vehicle' tax class. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. A car has to be registered before 1973 before it is tax exempt...we had a VW camper and were looking forward to being exempt at 25 years old, but when I checked with ministry of transport I was told it had to be reg before 1973!!!! Big disappointment i can tell you. Source(s): personal experience / M of T
Originally Posted by howlin-murdock Hi all, I recently brought a car, it's from 1981 (old W reg) so its about 27/28 years old but I was wondering how old does a car have to be for you not to pay road tax-I always thought it was 25 years and over? - any ideas? Thanking you in advance. 
Best Answer: It must have been manufactured (not necessarily registered) before the 31st of December 1972. http://www.direct.gov.uk/en/Motoring/Own... When tax exemption was conceived by the Tories, it was designed to use a 25 year old rolling date to determine tax exemption. And this continued for a couple of years until the Labour Party got hold of the concept.
RB, East Molesey. These 1973 cars did not actually become exempt until April 2014. (In the 2014 budget, this became a rolling, 40-year-old exemption). As RB's VED became due just before then, I advised him to tax it for six months, after which he would not have to pay for a tax disc. Email your queries to honestadvice@telegraph.co.uk (please include your full name, postal address and phone number). I have a classic car, proven to have been built in November 1973. According to a change of rules for historic vehicles in last year's budget, it should have been exempt from VED from April 1 this year. The DVLA has advised me that it is not exempt.
Kenthepipe. 2 years ago. Frankly speaking I think the 25 year exemption should now be scrapped, and replaced with say an annual road tax fee of £60 for all classics that are insured on a classic car insurance scheme, and the vehicle does no more than 1500 miles per annum. Tweet. The Government’s announcement that UK road tax exemption will be extended by a year to pre-’74 classics does not signal the reintroduction of a rolling scheme, C&SC can reveal.
When a vehicle is acquired for nominal or no monetary consideration, tax must be based on the average value of similar vehicles. In-Lieu of: $10 is collected on passenger vehicles 10 model years old and older (does not apply to motorcycles). Sales Tax Guideline for Older Cars. If a vehicle is at least 10 model years old and has a resale value of $3,000 or more, sales tax is due on the purchase price of the vehicle or fair market value (whichever is greater.) It does not qualify for the $10 flat sales tax.
In the Overview of Legislation and Tax rates for 2014-'15, the treasury states that the rolling benefit will affect around 10,000 classic car owners per year, who are currently paying VED, but will be newly exempt from 2015. There's good news for classic car owners in the 2014 budget. From April 2014, the classic car exemption from VED will begin rolling from 40 years, with cars built before January 1974 eligible for a zero-rated tax disc. Then, from January 2015, the formerly fixed cut-off, will become a rolling one.
Certain vehicles are considered exempt and are not required to be titled. New Hampshire does not title motor vehicles that have a model year of 1999 or older (see below for exceptions) or on any of the vehicles listed below: Title Apply for a Title. Certain vehicles are considered exempt and are not required to be titled. New Hampshire does not title motor vehicles that have a model year of 1999 or older (see below for exceptions) or on any of the vehicles listed below: Vehicles Not Required to be Titled in New Hampshire. 1  Boats. 2  Mopeds.