TO HOME THEATER SOUND. Dolby Atmos is a new audio format for creating and playing back multichannel movie soundtracks. It was developed to give movie sound a more three-dimensional effect. Traditional 5.1- and 7.1-channel surround setups deliver captivating sound using speakers placed all around your room. Dolby Atmos enabled speakers. These are newly designed speakers that reflect sound off of your ceiling. These speakers rest on stands, sit on top of front and rear speakers, or are integrated in a single cabinet with front-firing speakers. It's an easy way to add Dolby Atmos to an existing home theater.
Dolby Atmos logo. Dolby Atmos is the name of a surround sound technology announced by Dolby Laboratories in April 2012 and released in June of the same year, first utilized in Pixar's Brave. Dolby Atmos Monitor at SoundFirm, Melbourne, Australia. The first installation was in the Dolby Theater in Hollywood, California, for the premiere of Brave in June 2012. Throughout 2012, it saw a limited release of about 25 installations worldwide, with an increase to 300 locations in 2013. There are currently 2,000 locations as of February 2015
When you enable it for non-Atmos multi-channel content, the Dolby surround upmixer expands the audio so that it takes advantage of your entire system, including the ceiling or Dolby Atmos enabled speakers while still honoring and maintaining the artist’s intent for the mix. 
Dolby introduces a powerful new listening experience for the movies, with its Dolby Atmos ® sound technology. Dolby Atmos transports you into the movie with breathtaking, 360° sound that fills the theatre and flows all around you. 
Hear It in the Cinema Experience the difference Dolby Atmos® moving audio makes at the movies. Hear It in the Cinema. Experience the difference Dolby Atmos® moving audio makes at the movies. Upgrade Your Home Theater Learn how to create a Dolby Atmos home theater and enjoy the best audio quality at home. Upgrade Your Home Theater. Learn how to create a Dolby Atmos home theater and enjoy the best audio quality at home. Get It on the Go Get the Dolby Atmos experience from your mobile device
The actual Atmos system lets film makers place sound elements in a 3D space. With 5.1 and 7.1 systems, when you want to create the illusion that someone is behind the audience you just throw that sound to those speakers. It’s a speaker based system. The result is an audio experience that pulls the sound up from the ear-level speakers of 7.1 and 5.1 systems. With Atmos it sounds like water is falling on a canopy above you in a scene with a storm. When something goes whizzing by your ears it “feels” like it’s actually happening in the theatre.
Dolby Atmos sound systems add overhead speakers which heightens the realism of your cinematic experience. For the home, Dolby Atmos combines traditional home theater speaker layouts with either ceiling-mounted speakers or new Dolby Atmos-enabled speakers to create a plane of sound above the listener. Dolby Atmos has the amazing ability to have sounds come from above you. A Dolby Atmos home theater can play any stereo, 5.1, or 7.1 content. You can choose to have our technology automatically adapt that channel-based signal to use the full capabilities of your new system, including your overhead speakers, ensuring that you hear realistic and immersive sound.