Average Cost To do basic Remodel Of Bathroom Is About $8000.00 To $10,000.00 Bath Fitter Or Re bath Cost About $3500.00 For Tub Liner And Walls With all Accessories & Faucet. 
Once you find a good pro, then the cost to install a bathtub or shower liner will depend on a couple of factors. There is a wide range of bathtub liners to choose from, and that will ultimately affect the cost to install a bathtub or shower liner. You can find liners in a ton of different colors or styles to match your bathroom's current style, or a new style if you're remodeling or redecorating your space. Overall, the cost to install a bathtub or shower liner will depend on the liner you choose and who you choose to install it. A professional will make sure that everything is sealed properly so it looks like a new tub, while ensuring that no cracks or unhygienic conditions will occur.
1 Total cost for removing the old tub and installing a new one can run $1,500-$5,000 or more but averages $2,500-$3,500 depending on the ease of access, local rates, the quality of the new fixtures, and the extent of the repairs/replacements for the walls, plumbing and flooring. Replacing a fiberglass one with an acrylic whirlpool one. The estimate I got was for $3900.00 with me buying the tub and with a notice that the costs could go up if they have difficulty setting the tub. The tub cost $800. I am trying to keep costs down, so I am having them minimize the tile replacement.
1 On average, a Bath Fitter product, along with professional installation, is going to cost about $2,000 to $7,000+ for typical bathroom jobs. 2  It will depend on the features you want and what type of setup you have. 1 According to some members on MommySavers.com, they paid anywhere from $2,000 to more than $7,000 to have a Bath Fitter installed. 2  During the process, a Bath Fitter representative comes to the customer’s home and explains the Bath Fitter technique.
For a straightforward tub insert, the cost to install a bathtub or shower liner should be on the lower end of the price scale. Overall, the cost to install a bathtub or shower liner will depend on the liner you choose and who you choose to install it. A professional will make sure that everything is sealed properly so it looks like a new tub, while ensuring that no cracks or unhygienic conditions will occur.
It's less expensive to refinish the bathtub ($300-$600) or install a bathtub liner ($500-$4,000), but a replacement can mean you get precisely the tub you want. Replacing a fiberglass one with an acrylic whirlpool one. The estimate I got was for $3900.00 with me buying the tub and with a notice that the costs could go up if they have difficulty setting the tub. The tub cost $800. I am trying to keep costs down, so I am having them minimize the tile replacement.
Bath liners, including those sold under the Bath Fitter brand name, consist of sheets of acrylic molded to fit over the tub, giving it a fresh new look. These liners cost much less than a new bathtub, generally ringing in between $800 and $1,000, though wall panels and other extras can increase the price. While you may be able to get a tub liner for $1,000 or so, keep in mind that this covers the tub only. If you want matching wall panels, a shower surround or special features like shelves, grab bars or built-in soap dishes, your price will typically increase.
1 The cost of a Bath Fitter will depend on the materials one wants used as well as the size of your shower or tub. 2  For higher end materials and large spaces, you can expect to pay more. 1 According to some members on MommySavers.com, they paid anywhere from $2,000 to more than $7,000 to have a Bath Fitter installed. 2  During the process, a Bath Fitter representative comes to the customer’s home and explains the Bath Fitter technique.
They provide an attractive solution for dealing with old worn tubs, showers, and tile walls. If you're concerned about saving money on your bathroom remodeling; tub and shower liners are an alternative to refinishing or completely replacing your old tub or shower. Liners are new skins for your bathtub, shower pan, or walls. They are installed over your existing tub or shower; nothing is removed. Liners are made of heavy gauge acrylic. This is the same material that new, pre-fabricated bath and shower stalls are made of.
1 If the replacement tub is larger and heavier than the old bathtub, you might also need to install larger copper water pipes (anywhere from $1.30-$10 a foot) and a bigger-capacity hot water heater ($150-$3,500), and to reinforce the floor joists ($100-$300 per joist). Replacing a fiberglass one with an acrylic whirlpool one. The estimate I got was for $3900.00 with me buying the tub and with a notice that the costs could go up if they have difficulty setting the tub. The tub cost $800. I am trying to keep costs down, so I am having them minimize the tile replacement.