Teething can be very painful for some babies, and you may notice that your baby has sore gums for a month or two before the tooth breaks through. This won't be much fun for you or your baby, but there are some things that you can do to soothe the pain. Teething rings. Some babies are born with their first white cap, while others have to wait until their first birthday. So if your baby keeps her gummy smile for a while longer, rest assured that she will grow teeth in her own time. The first tooth to appear is usually at the front of your baby's mouth, on her bottom jaw.
Answer: Most babies will try to put things into their mouth at an early age. They find it comforting to do so. Babies love to chew on things, especially when they are teething. Blankies, favorite stuffed toys, edges of baby books and of course, fingers are an easy target to chew on. Teethers are designed to make it easier for babies to grip and put them in their mouth
Babies usually get their first teeth when they are between four and seven months of age. Teethers help to calm and soothe babies while they are teething. The part of the smart MAM teethers which is filled with water can be cooled if necessary. – Ensuring baby forgets about teething in no time at all! 
Most babies get their first tooth at around 6 months, but your child's chompers may appear as early as 3 months or as late as 14, depending on such factors as when Mom and Dad started sprouting teeth and whether or not your baby was a preemie (preemies tend to teethe on the late side). 
Most babies get their first tooth when they are around six months old, but other babies can get them much earlier, or much later, than this. Some babies are born with their first white cap, while others have to wait until their first birthday. So if your baby keeps her gummy smile for a while longer, rest assured that she will grow teeth in her own time. The first tooth to appear is usually at the front of your baby's mouth, on her bottom jaw.
The vast majority of babies sprout their first tooth when they're between 4 and 7 months old. An early developer may get his first white cap as early as 3 months, while a late bloomer may have to wait until he's a year old or more. 
1 Give your baby something cool to chew on, such as a chilled teething ring or a whole, peeled carrot that's been in the fridge. 2  Stay near your baby when he is chewing anything in case of choking (NHS 2014a) . 3  If your baby is older than four months, you can rub sugar-free teething gel for babies on his gums. 
Your baby is teething when his or her first set of teeth, called primary teeth, break through the gums. Teething usually begins around 6 months of age. But it is normal for teething to start at any time between 3 months and 12 months of age. By the time your child is about 3 years old, he or she will have all 20 primary teeth. The lower front teeth usually come in first. Some babies are fussier than usual when they are teething. This may be because of soreness and swelling in the gums before a tooth comes through. These symptoms usually begin about 3 to 5 days before the tooth shows, and they disappear as soon as the tooth breaks the skin.
Some babies are fussier than usual when they are teething. This may be because of soreness and swelling in the gums before a tooth comes through. These symptoms usually begin about 3 to 5 days before the tooth shows, and they disappear as soon as the tooth breaks the skin. Teething usually begins around 6 months of age. But it is normal for teething to start at any time between 3 months and 12 months of age. By the time your child is about 3 years old, he or she will have all 20 primary teeth. The lower front teeth usually come in first. Upper front teeth usually come in 1 to 2 months after the lower front teeth