The higher the MELD score the sicker the patient, and the higher on the transplant waiting list. UT Southwest Medicine reports livers are only matched for blood type (A, B, O, AB) and size. Unlike other organs, special tissue typing is not necessary to determine which liver donor makes the best match. MELD scores range from 0-40 or greater. On the waiting list, all liver patients and their MELD scores are reassessed and re-certified on a frequent basis. In this video, Dr. Joe Galati, a Liver Specialist in Houston, discusses how the MELD score is calculated, and how MELD exception points are calculated.
Currently, the average MELD score for a patient undergoing a liver transplant is 20 nationally. The average MELD score for liver transplant patients in our region varies from 26-33, depending on blood type. The average waiting time for a patient to receive a liver in our region, once a patient is placed on the UNOS waiting list, is 12-36 months. If a patient’s condition improves, and the MELD score decreases, the priority to receive a liver transplant decreases. Transplant physicians, nurses and social workers cannot accurately predict when a donor liver will become available for an individual patient.
The MELD score needed for liver transplant need to be 20 to be considered for liver transplant. The lab test frequency as indicated and required by UNOS is as followed: Lab Test Frequency: • MELD score greater than or equal to 25; Labs needed every seven days. • MELD score 18-11; Labs needed every 90 days. • MELD score less than or equal to 10; Labs needed every year. No one on the transplant team can determine or predict when a liver from a reputable donor will be available for any patient.
This article defines what a MELD score is, and the MELD score needed for liver transplant to be considered in a patient. slide 1 of 5. • MELD score 18-11; Labs needed every 90 days. • MELD score less than or equal to 10; Labs needed every year. No one on the transplant team can determine or predict when a liver from a reputable donor will be available for any patient.
Currently, the average MELD score for a patient undergoing a liver transplant is 20 nationally. The average MELD score for liver transplant patients in California varies from 26-33, depending on blood type. The average waiting time for a patient to receive a liver in California, once a patient is placed on the UNOS waiting list, is 12-36 months. As a patient’s MELD score increases, the priority to receive a liver transplant increases. If a patient’s condition improves, and the MELD score decreases, the priority to receive a liver transplant decreases.
The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD). MELD is a numerical scale, ranging from 6 (you are less sick) to 40 (you are gravely sick), used for liver transplant candidates age 12 and older. The score is based on how urgently you will need a liver transplant within the next three months. MELD Score
• MELD score 24-19; Labs needed every 30 days. • MELD score 18-11; Labs needed every 90 days. • MELD score less than or equal to 10; Labs needed every year. No one on the transplant team can determine or predict when a liver from a reputable donor will be available for any patient. It is a common policy not to discuss or inform a patient when they are on the list
The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) system was implemented February 27, 2002 to prioritize patients waiting for a liver transplant. MELD is a numerical scale used for adult liver transplant candidates. The range is from 6 (less ill) to 40 (gravely ill). As a patient’s MELD score increases, the priority to receive a liver transplant increases. If a patient’s condition improves, and the MELD score decreases, the priority to receive a liver transplant decreases.
It would be so interesting to know the average MELD score at Transplant! UNOS reporting breaks down each patient by virtually every other way (center, organ, blood type, months/years waiting, etc). My hubby get bloodwork done every month, but UNOS only asks for every 3 months. 
(Example: Patient has a MELD score of 15 and has been at level 11-18 for 100 days. With new laboratory tests, the patient’s MELD score is 22. The patient moves to a new MELD level of 19-24. The patient’s waiting time at this new level starts at 0 days). If a patient’s condition improves, and the MELD score decreases, the priority to receive a liver transplant decreases. Transplant physicians, nurses and social workers cannot accurately predict when a donor liver will become available for an individual patient.