Geothermal Plants. Geothermal power plants use steam to drive a turbine, which turns a generator to produce electricity. The turbine is like a large propeller. When the steam flows through it, it creates lift along the edge of the blades, spinning the turbine. The oldest design in geothermal power plants is the dry steam plant, in which steam from deep underground runs up a tube to spin the turbine. Then the steam is either cooled and pumped back underground or released.
Geothermal power plant. Hot water and steam from deep underground can be piped up through underground wells and used to generate electricity in a power plant. Three different types of geothermal power plants exist: 1  Dry steam plants. It used water piped from hot springs to heat buildings. The first geothermal energy plant was built in Larderello, Italy, in 1904. Today, geothermal energy is used in France, Turkey, New Zealand, the United States and Japan, among others.
How geothermal energy is captured. Geothermal springs for power plants. Currently, the most common way of capturing the energy from geothermal sources is to tap into naturally occurring hydrothermal convection systems, where cooler water seeps into Earth's crust, is heated up, and then rises to the surface. Geothermal power plants drill their own holes into the rock to more effectively capture the steam. There are three basic designs for geothermal power plants, all of which pull hot water and steam from the ground, use it, and then return it as warm water to prolong the life of the heat source.
The three basic designs for geothermal power plants: dry steam, flash steam, and binary cycle. Image: U.S. Department of Energy. The choice of which design to use is determined by the resource. If the water comes out of the well as steam, it can be used directly, as in the first design. Geothermal power plants drill their own holes into the rock to more effectively capture the steam. There are three basic designs for geothermal power plants, all of which pull hot water and steam from the ground, use it, and then return it as warm water to prolong the life of the heat source.
Geothermal electricity is electricity generated by geothermal energy. Technologies in use include dry steam power stations, flash steam power stations and binary cycle power stations. Geothermal electricity generation is currently used in 24 countries, while geothermal heating is in use in 70 countries. Geothermal power stations are similar to other steam turbine thermal power stations – heat from a fuel source (in geothermal's case, the earth's core) is used to heat water or another working fluid. The working fluid is then used to turn a turbine of a generator, thereby producing electricity.
The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface. The thermal efficiency of geothermal electric plants is low, around 10–23%, because geothermal fluids do not reach the high temperatures of steam from boilers. The laws of thermodynamics limits the efficiency of heat engines in extracting useful energy.
Many power plants still use fossil fuels to boil water for steam. Geothermal power plants, however, use steam produced from reservoirs of hot water found a couple of miles or more below the Earth's surface. There are three types of geothermal power plants: dry steam, flash steam, and binary cycle. This geothermal power plant generates electricity for the Imperial Valley in California