Cost of Gas Anesthesia for dental work. I have a cat that needs a tooth extracted (pre-molar). One vet estimated the charges at $550, another at $900. The higher one is my usual vet but due to availability of appointments for another concern I had a second vet also look at the tooth and give me a quote. 
Best Answer: There could be a number of things wrong. My cat has Periodontal Disease, so last year we had the vet clean his teeth. It was about $230 for the anesthesia, cleaning, extractions (4 teeth), pain meds, and an antibiotic. Depending on what is wrong with your kitty, it may be more or less (obviously). Cat dentals are very expensive where I live (in Johnson County, KS, a suburb of Kansas City). I had my cat's teeth cleaned in May 2014. He came from a hoarding situation and had very bad breath and numerous dental issues when I got him. He was only two years old and did not need pre-surgery blood work.
1 Cosmetic work is typically not covered by dental insurance. 2  Teeth whitening can cost $50-$200 per treatment in a spa, salon or mall kiosk; $100-$500 for dentist-supervised at-home bleaching trays; and $300-$1,000 or more for in-office treatments. 1 Some or all of these costs may be covered by dental insurance. 2  Filling a cavity can cost $50-$300 or more for a silver amalgam filling, and $90-$450 or more for a tooth-colored composite; insurance typically covers all or most of the cost of amalgam fillings, but only part of the composite filling cost.
The average cost of a dental consult for a cat is about $50. Even if the costs of professional dental cleaning may sound steep, you should know that this is important and may prevent other health problems that may cost much more to treat. The Cost of Professional Cat Teeth Cleaning. The cost of a professional cat teeth cleaning may vary depending on each dental clinic in part. On average, the costs may be around $300. This price contains the anesthesia, which is about $150. The costs of ultrasonic cleaning may be higher. Prices may also vary depending on geographical location
1 These retail for about $4 for a set of two. 2  The average price of a veterinary teeth cleaning is $400, with a range from $55 to $830. 3  The price depends on whether blood work is done, whether teeth are pulled and whether the cat is anesthetized. 4  The price also depends on the location and availability of veterinarians. Discounts: 1  Antibiotics typically cost between $30 and $50. 2  If the veterinarian suspects the cat has an infection of some kind -- usually due to an abscessed tooth from neglected teeth and gums -- he or she may prescribe antibiotics to be taken about a week before and a week after the cleaning.
A dental cleaning is performed under anesthesia. Before your cat is anesthetized blood work should be done. This will tell your veterinarian if your cat can safely have this procedure. Blood work can range but should cost between $100 and $150. The dental cleaning itself will include multi parameter anesthetic monitoring by a veterinary technician, iv catheter and fluids for safety, ultrasonic scaling and polishing of the teeth as well as a fluoride treatment. The entire cost should run $250 to $300
The cost of cat teeth cleaning can be very expensive because the procedure includes much more than just a simple cleaning. The typical cost of cleaning cats teeth is about $250-$300, depending on the area in which you live. When asking your veterinarian how much does cat teeth cleaning cost, be sure to ask who will be doing the procedure
1 The average price of a veterinary teeth cleaning is $400, with a range from $55 to $830. 2  The price depends on whether blood work is done, whether teeth are pulled and whether the cat is anesthetized. Discounts: 1  Antibiotics typically cost between $30 and $50. 2  If the veterinarian suspects the cat has an infection of some kind -- usually due to an abscessed tooth from neglected teeth and gums -- he or she may prescribe antibiotics to be taken about a week before and a week after the cleaning.
1 A standard teeth cleaning can cost $70 -$200; dental X-rays can cost $20-$250 or more; and an exam by a dentist can be $50-$150 or more. 2  Some or all of these costs may be covered by dental insurance. 1 Some or all of these costs may be covered by dental insurance. 2  Filling a cavity can cost $50-$300 or more for a silver amalgam filling, and $90-$450 or more for a tooth-colored composite; insurance typically covers all or most of the cost of amalgam fillings, but only part of the composite filling cost.