SAFER’S TROUNCE LAWN & TURF INSECTICIDE CONCENTRATE Kills chinch bugs, ants and earwigs GUARANTEE: Potassium salts of fatty acids 20.0% Pyrethrins 0.2% REG. Add 50 mL of Safer’s Trounce concentrate to 1 litre of water. Mix thoroughly. DIRECTIONS: LAWN INSECTS: To kill chinch bugs, ants and earwigs. Spray insects to wet when they first appear. Thorough coverage is essential for effective control. Repeat 10-14 days later if necessary.
Mode of action is important in understanding whether an insecticide will be toxic to unrelated species, such as fish, birds and mammals. For products that repel rather than kill insects see insect repellents. Since allyl isothiocyanate is harmful to the plant as well as the insect, it is stored in the harmless form of the glucosinolate, separate from the myrosinase enzyme. In general, tree rosin is considered a natural insecticide.
Insecticides are used in agriculture, medicine, industry and by consumers. Insecticides are claimed to be a major factor behind the increase in agricultural 20th century's productivity. Since allyl isothiocyanate is harmful to the plant as well as the insect, it is stored in the harmless form of the glucosinolate, separate from the myrosinase enzyme. In general, tree rosin is considered a natural insecticide.
Trounce plant insecticide concentrate kills insects such as spider mite, aphids, whiteflies, mealy bugs and more on contact. Its potassium salts disrupt and weaken the insect’s protective outer shell. The pyrethrins kill by disabling the insect’s nervous system. Trounce. Safer’s Trounce is a natural, organic pesticide, much better for the environment because the natural solutions break down and do not persist to cause residual effects, or long lasting effects. The fruits and vegetables harvested by gardening organic will reach their full natural taste and potential.
At ArborCare Tree Service Ltd., serving Western Canada, we're proud to use Safer's® insecticidal Trounce®, a non-toxic insecticide-miticide that offers effective control of a broad range of insects, including caterpillars and beetles. This product provides very rapid knock down and control of pests. Trounce is non-residual and biodegrades readily. It is considered safe to humans, pets and the environment. The active ingredients in Trounce are a blend of 20% potassium salts of fatty acids (sometimes called “soaps”), and 0.2% pyrethrums. The fatty-acids are derived from plant and animal oils.
Safer's Trounce Yard & Garden Insecticide is a highly effective and concentrated natural insecticide that provides broad-spectrum control of a variety of insect pests including aphids, whitefly, caterpillars, spider mites and selected beetles. Unique formulation of naturally derived fatty acids and pyrethrum. Add 3 tablespoons (50mL) of Safer's Trounce concentrate to 1 Quart (1 Litre) of water. Stir thoroughly. Directions for Use. Aphids, caterpillars, leafhoppers, earwigs, beetles, whitefly on fruit trees, ornamentals, fowers, shrubs and vegetables: Spray insects to wetting when they first appear.
An insecticide is a substance used to kill insects. They include ovicides and larvicides used against insect eggs and larvae, respectively. Since allyl isothiocyanate is harmful to the plant as well as the insect, it is stored in the harmless form of the glucosinolate, separate from the myrosinase enzyme. In general, tree rosin is considered a natural insecticide.