Lupin (also spelled lupine) is a legume belonging to the same plant family as peanuts. Lupin beans are a traditional food in Mediterranean cuisine. Lupin beans are eaten whole and also used to make ingredients such as lupin flour and lupin protein. These ingredients are often used in baked goods and pasta, including gluten-free products. Lupin is a common food in some cultures in Europe and Asia, where it is labeled on foods as an allergen, but is just now becoming more available in the United States, where consumers may not be aware of the potential allergenic risk.
Three Mediterranean species of lupin, blue (narrow-leafed) lupin, white lupin, and yellow lupin, are widely cultivated for livestock and poultry feed. Like other legumes, they can fix nitrogen from the atmosphere into ammonia via a rhizobium – root nodule symbiosis, fertilizing the soil for other plants. The pearl lupin of the Andean highlands of South America, Lupinus mutabilis, known locally as tarwi or chocho, was extensively cultivated, but there seems to have been no conscious genetic improvement other than to select for larger and water-permeable seeds.
Three Mediterranean species of lupin (blue lupin, white lupin and yellow lupin) are widely cultivated for livestock and poultry feed. Bitter lupins in feed can cause livestock poisoning. Lupin poisoning is a nervous syndrome caused by alkaloids in bitter lupins, similar to neurolathyrism. Mycotoxic lupinosis is a disease caused by lupin material that is infected with the fungus Diaporthe toxica; the fungus produces mycotoxins called phomopsins, which cause liver damage.
Definition of LUPINE. : any of a genus (Lupinus) of leguminous herbs including some poisonous forms and others cultivated for their long showy racemes of usually blue, purple, white, or yellow flowers or for green manure, fodder, or their edible seeds; also: an edible lupine seed. See lupine defined for kids
Lupin or lupini beans are the yellow legume seeds of Lupinus genus and are a traditional food of the Mediterranean basin (L. albus) and Latin America (L. mutabilis). They are traditionally eaten as a pickled snack food, primarily in the Mediterranean and South America. Lupin poisoning is a nervous syndrome caused by alkaloids in bitter lupins, similar to neurolathyrism. Mycotoxic lupinosis is a disease caused by lupin material that is infected with the fungus Diaporthe toxica; the fungus produces mycotoxins called phomopsins, which cause liver damage.
Lupin (sometimes called “lupine”) is a legume belonging to the same plant family as peanuts. “For many people, eating lupin or a lupin-derived ingredient, such as a flour, is safe,” says Stefano Luccioli, M.D., a senior medical advisor at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). “But there are reports in the medical literature of allergic reactions to lupin, some of which can be severe.”. Reactions can include anaphylaxis (a severe response to an allergen that can include shock), which is life-threatening and can occur very quickly. Allergens are substances, such as lupin, that can cause allergic reactions. As with most food allergens, people can develop an allergy to lupin over time
Lupinus, commonly known as lupin or lupine (North America), is a genus of flowering plants in the legume family, Fabaceae. The genus includes over 200 species, with centers of diversity in North and South America. The pearl lupin of the Andean highlands of South America, Lupinus mutabilis, known locally as tarwi or chocho, was extensively cultivated, but there seems to have been no conscious genetic improvement other than to select for larger and water-permeable seeds.
Arsene Arsène LUPIN iii is the grandson Of Arsene. Arsène lupin he is'the world s most wanted. Gentleman thief he sometimes, appears incompetent but mostly as a charade to catch his opponents. Off guard while he has been arrested and thrown in jail on a number, of occasions he has always managed to. break out Arsene Arsène LUPIN iii is the grandson Of Arsene. Arsène lupin he is'the world s most wanted. Gentleman thief he sometimes, appears incompetent but mostly as a charade to catch his opponents. off guard
The European white lupin (Lupinus albus) beans are commonly sold in a salty solution in jars (like olives and pickles) and can be eaten with or without the skin. Lupini dishes are most commonly found in Europe, especially in Portugal, Spain, Greece, and Italy. The pearl lupin of the Andean highlands of South America, Lupinus mutabilis, known locally as tarwi or chocho, was extensively cultivated, but there seems to have been no conscious genetic improvement other than to select for larger and water-permeable seeds.