Most cases of breast cancer are not caused by inherited genetic factors. These cancers are associated with somatic mutations in breast cells that are acquired during a person's lifetime, and they do not cluster in families. In hereditary breast cancer, the way that cancer risk is inherited depends on the gene involved.
Breast cancer is a disease in which certain cells in the breast become abnormal and multiply uncontrollably to form a tumor. Although breast cancer is much more common in women, this form of cancer can also develop in men.
Cancer is a disease of abnormal gene function. Genes are pieces of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). They contain the instructions on how to make the proteins the body needs to function, when to destroy damaged cells, and how to keep the cells in balance.
Family Cancer Syndromes. Cancer is such a common disease that it is no surprise that many families have at least a few members who have had cancer. Sometimes, certain types of cancer seem to run in some families. But only a small portion of all cancers are inherited. This document focuses on those cancers.
Cancer is a genetic disease. Cancer is a genetic disease, and this should not be confused with the statement that cancer is a hereditary disease. The two statements are profoundly different. A hereditary disease is one that is passed from the parents to a child through the inheritance of a defective gene.
Environmental factors. 1  Cancer is a complex disease, which means it is influenced by environmental and lifestyle factors as well as genetic factors. 2  Environmental exposures can include factors such as UV light, chemicals (for example in cigarette smoke) and radiation.
Cancer is such a common disease that it is no surprise that many families have at least a few members who have had cancer. Sometimes, certain types of cancer seem to run in some families. Sometimes, this is because family members have certain risk factors in common, such as smoking, which can cause many types of cancer.