Confucius, also known as Kong Qui or K’ung Fu-tzu, was born probably in 551 B.C. (lunar calendar) in present-day Qufu, Shandong Province, China. Little is known of his childhood. Records of the Historian, written by Ssu-ma Chi’en (born 145 B.C.; died 86 B.C.) offers the most detailed account of Confucius’ life. Synopsis. Kong Qui, better known as Confucius, was born in 551 B.C. in the Lu state of China (near present-day Qufu). His teachings, preserved in the Analects, focused on creating ethical models of family and public interaction, and setting educational standards. He died in 479 B.C
In Confucianism. Confucius is the name given to an ancient Chinese philosopher who we think lived between 551 BC and 479 BC. His philosophy became very popular in the Han Dynasty (206 BC-AD … 220), when his thoughts were developed into a system of philosophy known as Confucianism. Originally Confucianism could have been described as an ethical and  philosophical system developed from the teachings of the Chinese  philosopher Confucius who lived betwee … n 551-479 BCE. Later  developments took confucianism into metaphysical and cosmological  areas of understanding.
Confucius is the name given to an ancient Chinese philosopher who we think lived between 551 BC and 479 BC. His philosophy became very popular in the Han Dynasty (206 BC-AD … 220), when his thoughts were developed into a system of philosophy known as Confucianism. Confucius was an ancient Chinese Philosopher(Kong Qiu) who was born on September 28, 551 BC in Qufu, China. He died in 479 BC also in Qufu, China. He was the founder of Confuc … ianism.and he was a great for everything he did like improved the Chinese culture.
How did Confucianism begin? A Chinese philosopher named K'ung Fu-tzu or Confucius, the Westernized version, believed that a society could become perfect, if the people who lived in it exhibited beautiful conduct.. Confucius was born in 551 B.C.E. He had a government job which he gave up to devote his life to teaching people how to behave.
Confucius (or Kongzi) was a Chinese philosopher who lived in the 6th century BCE and whose thoughts, expressed in the philosophy of Confucianism, have influenced Chinese culture right up to the present day. Confucius is believed to have lived from c. 551 to c. 479 BCE in the state of Lu (now Shandong or Shantung). However, the earliest written record of him dates from some four hundred years after his death in the Historical Records of Sima Qian (or Si-ma Ts‘ien)
Confucius' main interest was to figure out ways for the government to do a better job of taking care of the people. He lived in China during the 500s BC, under the Eastern Zhou dynasty. Confucius (conn-FYU-shuss) is what English speakers call him now, but when he was a child his name was Kong Qiu. In Chinese, Confucius is Kung Fu Tzu. He was born in 551 BC, and his parents were poor, although his family had once been rich. They had gotten into trouble with the emperor, and he had taken away their money and their land.
Confucius (/kənˈfjuːʃəs/ ; September 28, 551 – 479 BC) was a Chinese teacher, editor, politician, and philosopher of the Spring and Autumn period of Chinese history. According to the Zuo Zhuan, Confucius returned home to his native Lu when he was 68, after he was invited to do so by Ji Kangzi, the chief minister of Lu. The Analects depict him spending his last years teaching 72 or 77 disciples and transmitting the old wisdom via a set of texts called the Five Classics.
Confucius' Early life. Confucius is believed to have lived from c. 551 to c. 479 BCE in the state of Lu (now Shandong or Shantung). However, the earliest written record of him dates from some four hundred years after his death in the Historical Records of Sima Qian (or Si-ma Ts‘ien)