The vagus nerve is the tenth cranial nerve and provides the bulk of the parasympathetic input to the gastrointestinal system and to the heart. It is a mixed sensory/motor/parasympathetic nerve. 
Note: it is reported that 50% of the axons in the pelvic nerve are afferent (General Visceral Afferent). Vagal parasympathetic preganglionic neurons arise from the parasympathetic nucleus of the vagus nerve (cardiac preganglionics reside in nucleus ambiguus). In the thorax, preganglionic axons leave the vagus nerves to innervate terminal ganglia in the heart and lungs. 
(April 2014). In the peripheral nervous system, an afferent nerve fiber is the nerve fiber (axon) of an afferent neuron (sensory neuron). It is a long process (projection) extending far from the nerve cell body that carries nerve impulses from sensory receptors or sense organs toward the central nervous system. The opposite direction of neural activity is efferent conduction. In the nervous system there is a closed loop system of sensation, decision, and reactions. This process is carried out through the activity of afferent neurons (sensory neurons), interneurons, and efferent neurons (motor neurons).
Special Sensory Functions. The vagus nerve has a minor role in taste sensation. It carries afferent fibres from the root of the tongue and epiglottis. (This is not to be confused with the special sensation of the glossopharyngeal nerve, which provides taste sensation for the posterior 1/3 of the tongue). In the thorax and abdomen, the vagus nerve is the main parasympathetic outflow to the heart and gastro-intestinal organs. The Heart. Cardiac branches arise in the thorax, conveying parasympathetic innervation to the sino-atrial and atrio-ventricular nodes of the heart (For more heart anatomy, see here).
Gross Anatomy. The vagus nerve is the longest cranial nerve. It contains motor and sensory fibers and, because it passes through the neck and thorax to the abdomen, has the widest distribution in the body. It contains somatic and visceral afferent fibers, as well as general and special visceral efferent fibers. (See Table 1, below.). Fibers from the dorsal motor nucleus X pass through the spinal trigeminal nucleus and tract, emerging from the medulla oblongata lateral surface to join the rest of the vagus. Visceral sensory (afferent general and special visceral). Nerve cells are located in the inferior (nodose) ganglion
Besides output to thevarious organs in the body the vagus nerve conveys sensory information about the state of the body's organs to thecentral nervous system. 80-90% of the nerve fibers in the vagus nerve are afferent (sensory) nerves communicatingthe state of the viscera to the brain. [3] The medieval Latin word vagus means literally Wandering (the words vagrant, vagabond, and vague come fromthe same root). 
The Vagus Nerve is a Cranial Nerve (Number X) that starts in the medulla oblongata of the brainstem and travels downward to various organs of the body. It has been called the wandering nerve because of the many areas that it innervates. The Vagus Nerve has two major components, efferent fibers and afferent fibers. Efferent fibers are those that travel away from the origin of the nerve, the central nervous system (CNS). The vagus nerves are both afferent and efferent (signals travel from the brain and to the brain). Nerves are classified by man in to fibers, A, B, C. The vagus nerve controls the voice box, your stomach, and innervates with the phrenic nerve, making you hiccough.
The Vagus Nerve is the tenth of the Twelve Cranial Nerves. The fibers consist of efferent motoric and parasympathetic fibers and afferent sensory fibers. In this article the pathways will be discussed. The word afferent means toward the centre, as in from a peripheral area of a limb to the central nervous system. The pathway for the efferent parasympathetic fibers of the vagus nerve is the following (From the Initiation in the brain to the termination in the periphery): 1  The dorsal vagal nucleus is situated behind the vagal nerve trigone and contributes the parasympathetic and viseroafferent fibers.
ABSTRACT The vagus nerve, the major nerve of the parasympathetic nervous system, innervates several organs from the neck to the abdomen. The vagal branches contain afferent (i.e. sensory) and efferent (i.e. motor) fibres contributing to a bidirectional communication between the visceral organs and the brain. Within the medulla, the cell bodies of vagal preganglionic neurons are found in the nucleus ambiguous (NA) and the dorsal motor of the vagus (DMV). These nuclei supply fibres to the vagus nerve, which emerges from the cranium via the jugular foramen.