So the gases are in the non-metals section. An unreactive gas would most commonly be found in group 18 (last column) on the periodic table of elements. These are the noble gases, and have 8 electrons on their outer shell, so they are very stable. Since they are stable, they are unreactive. They rarely react with other chemicals. Argon is an element with atomic number 18. It has very low melting and boiling points. Argon, is a non-metal element and noble gas.
Report Abuse. http://education.jlab.org/itselemental/e... Argon is important as it does not react with other elements and form toxic or corrosive compounds. In lamp bulbs it prevents the heated element from corroding. In welding it is used to displace oxygen that can contaminate a weld
Chlorine needs to gain (-1) one valence electron to become unreactive like Argon. The reason why Argon is unreactive is because it had 8 valence electrons. Argon is an element with atomic number 18. It has very low melting and boiling points. Argon, is a non-metal element and noble gas.
Argon is a noble gas. It is colorless, odorless and extremely unreactive. It is, however, not completely inert – photolysis of hydrogen fluoride in a solid argon matrix at 7.5 kelvin yields argon fluorohydride, HArF. Argon forms no stable compounds at room temperature. 
Lr. Group 8A (or VIIIA) of the periodic table are the noble gases or inert gases: helium (He), neon (Ne), argon (Ar), krypton (Kr), xenon (Xe), and radon (Rn). The name comes from the fact that these elements are virtually unreactive towards other elements or compounds
Report Abuse. Argon is a noble gas and has a full valence shell electron. Chlorine has 7 valence electrons and wants to achieve a noble gas configuration (full valence shell), with chlorine having 7 valence electrons it has very high electronegativity (attraction to other elements). Therefor it is very reactive. akbma · 7 years ago.
The Noble Gases. The elements of Group VIII of the Periodic Table are gases which have closed shells and are unreactive chemically. Helium, neon, argon and krypton are used in gas discharge decorative ligthing, called neon lights. Argon is used to fill incandescent light bulbs to inhibit the evaporation of the tungsten filaments and increase bulb life. Xenon is used in electronic flash tubes for cameras and other flash tubes