Histrionic personality disorder (HPD) is defined by the American Psychiatric Association as a personality disorder characterized by a pattern of excessive attention-seeking emotions, usually beginning in early adulthood, including inappropriately seductive behavior and an excessive need for approval. HPD lies in the dramatic cluster of personality disorders. People with HPD have a high need for attention, make loud and inappropriate appearances, exaggerate their behaviors and emotions, and crave stimulation.
By Psych Central Staff ~ 3 min read. Histrionic personality disorder is characterized by a long-standing pattern of attention seeking behavior and extreme emotionality. Someone with histrionic personality disorder wants to be the center of attention in any group of people, and feel uncomfortable when they are not. Treatment of histrionic personality disorder typically involves long-term psychotherapy with a therapist that has experience in treating this kind of personality disorder. Medications may also be prescribed to help with specific troubling and debilitating symptoms.
histrionic personality disorder, a disorder characterized by dramatic, reactive, and intensely exaggerated behavior, which is typically self-centered. It results in severe disturbance in interpersonal relationships that can lead to psychosomatic disorders, depression, alcoholism, and drug dependency. Hysterical personality disorder Psychiatry A state characterized by '… pervasive and excessive emotionality and attention-seeking behavior ', which begins by early adulthood, and is present in various contexts; HPD is diagnosed by the finding of 5 or more of a list of criteria.
Histrionic personality disorder is part of a class of conditions called dramatic personality disorders, which are marked by unstable emotions and distorted self-images, according to the Cleveland Clinic. 
Histrionic personality disorder is one of a group of conditions called Cluster B or dramatic personality disorders. People with these disorders have intense, unstable emotions and distorted self-images. For people with histrionic personality disorder, their self-esteem depends on the approval of others and does not arise from a true feeling of self-worth. They have an overwhelming desire to be noticed, and often behave dramatically or inappropriately to get attention.
The simple answer to the question – what is histrionic personality disorder – is that people with the disorder are attention-seeking individuals with a proclivity for fomenting drama across a wide variety of situations. People with HPD typically have character traits like: 1  Highly emotional. 2  Charming. 3  Manipulative. Histrionic Personality Disorder Relationships. Histrionic personality disorder relationships may be impaired because people with the disorder often have difficulty achieving emotional intimacy in romantic relationships. They may move away from long-term relationships so they can enjoy the excitement of a new one.
Definition. Histrionic personality disorder, often abbreviated as HPD, is a type of personality disorder in which the affected individual displays an enduring pattern of attention-seeking and excessively dramatic behaviors beginning in early adulthood and present across a broad range of situations. More specifically, HPD is classified as a Cluster B (dramatic, emotional, or erratic) personality disorder. The personality disorders which comprise Cluster B include histrionic, antisocial, borderline, and narcissistic.
Histrionic personality disorder (HPD) is a condition that is a part of a larger group of psychological disorders, called dramatic personality disorders. People with HPD have a distorted mental image of themselves. They often base their self-esteem on the approval of others. 
Histrionic Personality Disorder. Histrionic Personality Disorder is characterized by constant attention-seeking, emotional overreaction, and suggestibility. This personality's tendency to over-dramatize may impair relationships and lead to depression, but sufferers are often high-functioning. 1  Definition. 2  Symptoms. 3  Causes