2. When substituting a liquid for a granulated sweetener (e.g. using honey when the recipe calls for sucanat or brown sugar), for every 1 cup of honey, subtract 1/4 cup of liquid from the recipe (that means also, for every 1/4 cup of honey, subtract 1 Tbsp of liquid). 3. 6. If you’d like to use stevia in your baking and cooking, check out Stevia-What It Is and How to Use It for helpful tips. Stevia is super sweet. In general, 1/32 of a tsp is the equivalent of 1 teaspoon of sugar.
Photo Credit Sarah Vantassel/Demand Media. Substitute 1/3 teaspoon SteviaClear Liquid for every 1/4 cup of honey in your recipe. A little liquid stevia goes a long way, so experiment with this ratio until you find a sweetness level you're happy with. For example, if you subtract 2 tablespoons of added Stevia Liquid Concentrate from the 1/2 cup of honey, or 8 tablespoons, the recipe calls for, you're left with 6 tablespoons of missing moistening agent. You Might Also Like.
I use NuNaturals liquid stevia. For one USA 1/4 cup, I’d use 27 drops of stevia. For one Australian 1/4 cup, I’d use 36 drops. If you are using stevia for a baking recipe, you’ll want to add something else to take the place of the ‘bulk’ and binding quality of the sugar (fruit puree, nut or seed butters, etc. Truvia is a stevia/erythritol product where 1/3 cup + 1 1/2 tablespoons equals 1 cup of sugar. Pure Via that is a stevia/dextrose product where 1/2 cup equals 1 cup of sugar (per the products website), but on the bag it states that it measure cup for cup the same as sugar.
5. Since maple syrup and honey are somewhat acidic, when baking, you will need to add 1/4 – 1/2 tsp baking soda per cup of honey or maple syrup to the batter so it will rise. 6. If you’d like to use stevia in your baking and cooking, check out Stevia-What It Is and How to Use It for helpful tips. Stevia is super sweet. In general, 1/32 of a tsp is the equivalent of 1 teaspoon of sugar.
Agave is a 1:1 for honey, maple syrup and for each cup of white sugar replaced, use 2/3 of a cup of agave and reduce other liquids by 1/4 to 1/3 cup. Sweetened pickles and relishes using sugar substitutes such as Stevia and Splenda will work but may add a mushy texture and have a strange aftertaste. You can use honey for your pickling but use 3/4 cup of honey for every cup of sugar. For sweet pickles use a dark honey rather than light. Adjust to your taste. Too much Stevia may taste bitter. 1  Maple syrup can be used to replace up to 1/4 of the sugar in a recipe, but it will effect the natural flavor and color of the fruit. 2  Mild-flavored honey may be used to replace as much as half of the white sugar called for in your canning syrup recipe.
Honey. 3/4 cup honey for every cup of sugar. Via foodsubs.com: Substitute 3/4 cup honey for each cup of granulated syrup called for in recipe, then reduce another liquid in the recipe by 1/4 cup and add 1/4 teaspoon baking soda (to neutralized the acid in the honey).
3. The converse is then, when substituting a granulated for a liquid sweetener (e.g. using sucanat or coconut sugar when the recipe calls for maple syrup or honey), for every 1 cup of sweetener, add 1/4 cup of liquid from the recipe (that means also, for every 1/4 cup of honey, add 1 Tbsp of liquid). 6. If you’d like to use stevia in your baking and cooking, check out Stevia-What It Is and How to Use It for helpful tips. Stevia is super sweet. In general, 1/32 of a tsp is the equivalent of 1 teaspoon of sugar.
SweetLeaf brand liquid stevia is a natural sweetener made from the leaves of a South American plant. The extract has been used in South America for hundreds of years as a way to sweeten foods and beverages without adding calories or altering blood sugar levels. For example, if you subtract 2 tablespoons of added Stevia Liquid Concentrate from the 1/2 cup of honey, or 8 tablespoons, the recipe calls for, you're left with 6 tablespoons of missing moistening agent. You Might Also Like.