eukaryote. n. 1. (Biology) any member of the Eukarya, a domain of organisms having cells each with a distinct nucleus within which the genetic material is contained. Eukaryotes include protoctists, fungi, plants, and animals. Compare prokaryote. [from eu- + karyo- + -ote as in zygote ]. (yuˈkaer yuˈkær, -iˌoʊt i). ət. N compare. prokaryote
Eukarya. Definition. noun. The domain comprised of eukaryotes or organisms whose cells contain a true nucleus. Supplement. Eukarya (or Eukaryota) is one in the three-domain system of biological classification introduced by Carl Woese in 1990. The other two are Archaea and Bacteria. Related terms: eukaryote (noun). 
Eukaryotic cells are typically much larger than those of prokaryotes. They have a variety of internal membrane-bound structures, called organelles, and a cytoskeleton composed of microtubules, microfilaments, and intermediate filaments, which play an important role in defining the cell's organization and shape. The defining feature that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells (Bacteria and Archaea) is that they have membrane-bound organelles, especially the nucleus, which contains the genetic material, and is enclosed by the nuclear envelope.
1 any member of the Eukarya, a domain of organisms having cells each with a distinct nucleus within which the genetic material is contained. 2  Eukaryotes include protoctists, fungi, plants, and animals Compare prokaryote. 
Any of various single-celled or multicellular organisms of the domain Eukaryota, characterized by cells that contain a distinct membrane-bound nucleus and by the occurrence of DNA transcription inside the nucleus and protein synthesis in the cytoplasm, in contrast to prokaryotes. n. 1. (Biology) any member of the Eukarya, a domain of organisms having cells each with a distinct nucleus within which the genetic material is contained. Eukaryotes include protoctists, fungi, plants, and animals.
The defining membrane-bound structure that differentiates eukaryotic cells from prokaryotic cells is the cell nucleus, within which the genetic material and many other cell bodies are contained. The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name that derives from the Greek (eu, good) and (karyon, kernel). Most eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus. Eukaryota is one of the three domains of life contianing organisms whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within complex membranes call endomembranes. These organisms are called Eukaryotes and are either singular-or multiple-celled.
eukaryote. n. 1. (Biology) any member of the Eukarya, a domain of organisms having cells each with a distinct nucleus within which the genetic material is contained. Eukaryotes include protoctists, fungi, plants, and animals. Compare prokaryote. [from eu- + karyo- + -ote as in zygote ]. (yuˈkaer yuˈkær, -iˌoʊt i). ət. N compare. prokaryote
eukaryote. an organism of the Eucaryotae, whose cells (eukaryotic cells) have a true nucleus that is bounded by a nuclear membrane, contains the chromosomes, and divides by mitosis. Eukaryotic cells also contain membrane-bound organelles, such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, lysosomes, and the Golgi apparatus. 
It is this nucleus that gives the eukaryote its name. Eukaryote means true nucleus. Eukaryotic organisms also have other specialized structures, called organelles, which are small structures within cells that perform dedicated functions. As the name implies, you can think of organelles as small organs. Eukaryote: An organism that consists of one or more cells each of which has a nucleus and other well-developed intracellular compartments. Eukaryotes include all organisms except bacteria, viruses, and certain (blue-green) algae which, by contrast, are prokaryotes. See: Prokaryote.
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes from the Greek ευ (eu, well) and κάρυον (karyon, nut or kernel). Eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria and the Golgi apparatus. In addition, plants and algae contain chloroplasts. Eukaryotic organisms may be unicellular, or multicellular. Only eukaryotes have many kinds of tissue made up of different cell types. The defining feature that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells (Bacteria and Archaea) is that they have membrane-bound organelles, especially the nucleus, which contains the genetic material, and is enclosed by the nuclear envelope.