They both diffuse in the tissues of the lungs on or off red blood cells. Digestion, when the cell allows nutrients to enter the cell and excludes others which is a permeable process. Dialysis substances (solutes) move across a selectively permeable membrane by diffusion. Osmosis is the movement of water from a high concentration to a low concentration. There was evidence that osmosis occurred thru the dialysis tubing because there was an increase of liquid in the dialysis bag and a decrease of water and iodine solution in the cup.
Isoflurane (Forane): Introduction (Back to Quick Links). Inhalation anesthetics are substances that are brought into the body via the lungs and are distributed with the blood into the different tissues. The main target of inhalation anesthetics (or so-called volatile anesthetics) is the brain. 
Osmosis is the result of diffusion across a semipermeable membrane. If two solutions of different concentration are separated by a semipermeable membrane, then the solvent will tend to diffuse across the membrane from the less concentrated to the more concentrated solution. This process is called osmosis. Osmosis is the process of diffusion of water across a semipermeable membrane. Water molecules are free to pass across the cell membrane in both directions, either in or out, and thus osmosis regulates hydration, the influx of nutrients and the outflow of wastes, among other processes. Osmosis in a plant cell.
The passage of air into the lungs to supply the body with oxygen is known as inhalation, and the passage of air out of the lungs to expel carbon dioxide is known as exhalation; this process is collectively called breathing or ventilation. Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood. This exchange process occurs in the alveoli (air sacs) in the lungs. In fish and many invertebrates, respiration takes place through the gills.
Report Abuse. Similarities: -Diffusion and Osmosis both deal with the movement of molecules from a higher concentration to a lower. -Both involve movement through the cell membrane. Differences: -Osmosis is a type of Diffusion. -Osmosis deals with water passing through a cell, whereas Diffusion deals with proteins, nutrients, etc. 
The difference in concentration is known as the concentration gradient. Diffusion is very important in the body for the movement of substances eg the movement of oxygen from the air into the blood and carbon dioxide out of the blood into the air in the lungs, or the movement of glucose from the blood to the cells. Substances are moving in and out of the cells of your body all the time. To understand why the water balance is so important in homeostasis, and to make sense of how your kidneys work, you need to know about diffusion, osmosis and active transport.
Osmosis is the spontaneous net movement of water across a semipermeable membrane from a region of low solute concentration to a solution with a high solute concentration, down a solute concentration gradient. Process. Diffusion mainly occurs in gaseous state or within gas molecules and liquid molecules.(e.g. Osmosis is the process of diffusion of water across a semipermeable membrane. Water molecules are free to pass across the cell membrane in both directions, either in or out, and thus osmosis regulates hydration, the influx of nutrients and the outflow of wastes, among other processes. Osmosis in a plant cell.
Diffusion is the movement of materials from a higher to a lower concentration. The differences between oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations are measured by partial pressures. The greater the difference in partial pressure the greater the rate of diffusion. Respiratory System Principles | Back to Top. 1  Movement of an oxygen-containing medium so it contacts a moist membrane overlying blood vessels. 2  Diffusion of oxygen from the medium into the blood. 3  Transport of oxygen to the tissues and cells of the body.
back 8. both are passive transports of high concentration gradient to low concentration gradient. Osmosis differs because it is the diffusion of water from a high to a low concentration gradient through a selective permeable membrane. front 9. the conditions were 9 mM albumin in the left beaker and 10 mM glucose in the right beaker with the 200 MWCO membrane in place. both are passive diffusion that are from high concentration gradient to a low concentration gradient. facilitated differs from simple because it requires a carrier protein to diffuse. front 6. The larger value obtained when more glucose carriers were present corresponds to an increase in the rate of glucose transport.