Drayton Valley is served by two weekly newspapers, the Drayton Valley Western Review and the Community Voice and one radio station, CIBW-FM, mainly playing country music. A Christian radio station, CIDV-FM, was launched in 2009. Drayton Valley's main attraction is the Omniplex, a community sports centre which specializes in ice hockey, ringette, and curling. The arena also supports soccer, baseball and rodeo. The town also has a public swimming pool, a ski hill and the Drayton Valley Golf and Country Club.
Drayton Valley embraces the best of the modern world while still having a taste of Alberta’s Frontier Spirit. This is a place where neighbours become friends and where friends unite to build a community in which we can all share. Town of Drayton Valley 2 hours ago. Town of Drayton Valley. 2 hours ago. The Community Shred-it Event is happening this afternoon at the Omniplex Parking lot from 3pm-7pm.
Drayton is a community in Wellington County, Ontario, Canada. It is a part of the township of Mapleton in North Wellington County. The village is on the corner of Wellington Road 8 and Wellington Road 11, geographically northwest of Fergus and southwest of Arthur. Drayton is home to the Drayton Festival Theatre, which is a renovated 1902 Opera House that seats 375 people, and has a rich history of entertaining audiences with the finest talent in professional theatre, including legendary performers as Beatrice Lillie.
Drayton is in the Upper Grand District School Board. Schools that are located in the area are Centre Peel Public School and Drayton Heights Public School, which is for kindergarten to Grade 8 students; while high school students attend Norwell District Secondary School in nearby Palmerston, Ontario. Drayton is home to the Drayton Festival Theatre, which is a renovated 1902 Opera House that seats 375 people, and has a rich history of entertaining audiences with the finest talent in professional theatre, including legendary performers as Beatrice Lillie.
Drayton Valley is a town in central Alberta, Canada. It is located on Highway 22 (Cowboy Trail), approximately 133 kilometres (83 mi) southwest of Edmonton. It is surrounded by Brazeau County, which is known for its vast oil fields. Drayton Valley's main attraction is the Omniplex, a community sports centre which specializes in ice hockey, ringette, and curling. The arena also supports soccer, baseball and rodeo. The town also has a public swimming pool, a ski hill and the Drayton Valley Golf and Country Club.
Click on a place to view Drayton immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Drayton families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. 
In the 2011 Census, the Town of Drayton Valley had a population of 7,049 living in 2,740 of its 2,899 total dwellings, a 2.3% change from its 2006 population of 6,893. With a land area of 12.27 km 2 (4.74 sq mi), it had a population density of 574.5/km 2 (1,487.9/sq mi) in 2011. Drayton Valley's main attraction is the Omniplex, a community sports centre which specializes in ice hockey, ringette, and curling. The arena also supports soccer, baseball and rodeo. The town also has a public swimming pool, a ski hill and the Drayton Valley Golf and Country Club.
Drayton Hall Welcomes You. You’ve never seen anything like this. Founded in 1738, Drayton Hall is the oldest preserved plantation house in America that’s still open to the public and a masterpiece of Georgian-Palladian architecture. 
Drayton Valley is a vibrant and diverse community sitting high above the North Saskatchewan River, where the open plains of the prairie rise toward the rolling foothills of the Rocky Mountains and the boreal forest of the Canadian West. Town of Drayton Valley 2 hours ago. Town of Drayton Valley. 2 hours ago. The Community Shred-it Event is happening this afternoon at the Omniplex Parking lot from 3pm-7pm.