Like many long-tenured directors, there are people that Tim Burton enjoys working with. He rewards his favorites by featuring them in his films more frequently. The most frequent collaborator of Tim Burton is musician Danny Elfman. Danny Elfman has created the soundtracks for all of Burton’s films except Ed Wood. Nearly all of Burton’s films focus on a main character who is some sort of outcast from society. Furthermore, this character is typically very strange and eccentric. Usually they are an outcast because nobody understands them. Edward Scissorhands is a great example.
Early Films. Famed director, producer and screenwriter Tim Burton was born Timothy Walter Burton on August 25, 1958, in Burbank, California. As a child, Burton was engrossed with the classic horror films of Roger Corman—many of which featured quintessential screen villain Vincent Price. Synopsis. Tim Burton was born on August 25, 1958, in Burbank, California. After majoring in animation at the California Institute of Arts, he worked as a Disney animator for less than a year before striking out on his own.
Tim Burton has also worked with composer Danny Elfman quite frequently. He creates the music for nearly all of Burton’s films, taking the director’s notes and translating it into music that matches his vision of how the film must be. When he is working on an animated film, he frequently works with Tim Allen. However, it is important to understand that a ‘Tim Burton’ film isn’t merely a fantasy film, or a film that includes the themes mentioned. His films add an extra element. It is his treatment of these things that makes his work distinct, and establishes him as an auteur.
Timothy Walter  Tim  Burton (/ˈbɜrtən/ ; born August 25, 1958) is an American film director, producer, artist, writer, and animator. Corpse Bride (2005) was Burton's first full-length stop motion film as a director, featuring the voices of Johnny Depp as Victor and Helena Bonham Carter (for whom the project was specifically created) as Emily in the lead roles.
Burton has worked repeatedly with Johnny Depp, who has become a close friend of Burton since their first film together. He has also worked with musician Danny Elfman, who has composed scores for all but two of the films Burton has directed. Actress Helena Bonham Carter, Burton's former domestic partner, has appeared in many of his films. Corpse Bride (2005) was Burton's first full-length stop motion film as a director, featuring the voices of Johnny Depp as Victor and Helena Bonham Carter (for whom the project was specifically created) as Emily in the lead roles.
List of frequent Tim Burton collaborators. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Tim Burton (born August 25, 1958) is an American film director, film producer, writer and artist who often works with certain actors and crew members in multiple feature film directing projects. Most notable actors are Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham Carter and Christopher Lee, who all appeared in eight, seven and six films, respectively. Film composer Danny Elfman composed the music for all of Burton's feature films with the exception of Ed Wood (1994) and Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007).
Like so many others who graduated from that school, Burton's first job was as an animator for Disney. He worked on such films as The Fox and the Hound (1981) and The Black Cauldron (1985), but had some creative differences from that of his colleagues. That film was Edward Scissorhands (1990), one of his most emotional, esteemed and artistic films to date. Edward Scissorhands (1990) was also Burton's first film with actor Johnny Depp.
Finally, Tim Burton should be given the title auteur because of his distinctive lighting style that is used frequently in his films. He usually uses a mixture of low key lighting and high key lighting to create the illusion of two worlds. 
While at Disney in 1982, Burton made his first short, Vincent, a six-minute black-and-white stop motion film based on a poem written by the filmmaker, and depicting a young boy who fantasizes that he is his hero Vincent Price, with Price himself providing narration. Corpse Bride (2005) was Burton's first full-length stop motion film as a director, featuring the voices of Johnny Depp as Victor and Helena Bonham Carter (for whom the project was specifically created) as Emily in the lead roles.