noun (plural tali ˈteɪlʌɪ). The large bone in the ankle, which articulates with the tibia of the leg and the calcaneus and navicular bone of the foot. Also called astragalus. Example sentences. 1  The ankle joint is formed by the articulation of the talus with the tibia and fibula. 2  In this series of operations, we used suture anchor devices to fix the free ends of the split patellar tendon to the talus and the calcaneus.
Definition of TALUS. 1. : the human tarsal bone that bears the weight of the body and that together with the tibia and fibula forms the ankle joint. 2. : the entire ankle. Definition of TALUS. 1. : a slope formed especially by an accumulation of rock debris. 2. : rock debris at the base of a cliff
1 The ankle joint is formed by the articulation of the talus with the tibia and fibula. 2  In this series of operations, we used suture anchor devices to fix the free ends of the split patellar tendon to the talus and the calcaneus. Also called astragalus. Example sentences. 1 
The talus bone (/ˈteɪləs/ ; Latin for ankle), astragalus /əˈstraeɡələs/ , əˈstræɡələs or ankle bone is one of the group of foot bones known as the. Tarsus the tarsus forms the lower part of the ankle joint through its articulations with the lateral and medial malleoli of the two bones of the lower, leg the tibia and. fibula The second largest of the tarsal bones, it is also one of the bones in the human body with the highest percentage of its surface area covered by articular cartilage. Additionally, it is also unusual in that it has a retrograde blood supply, i.e. arterial blood enters the bone at the distal end.
ankle. 1. the joint between the leg and foot. 2. the area around this joint (see illustration). The ankle is a hinge joint formed by the junction of the tibia and fibula with the talus (ankle bone). The bones are cushioned by cartilage and connected by a number of ligaments, tendons, and muscles that strengthen the joint and enable it to be moved. ta·li. The bone of the foot that articulates superiorly with the tibia and fibula to form the ankle joint inferiorly with the calcaneus to form the subtalar joint, and anteriorly with the navicular, forming the medial component of the transverse tarsal joint.
Medical Definition of TALUS. 1. : the human astragalus that bears the weight of the body and together with the tibia and fibula forms the ankle joint—called also anklebone. 2. Definition of TALUS. 1. : a slope formed especially by an accumulation of rock debris. 2. : rock debris at the base of a cliff
ta·lus 1. n. pl. ta·li (-lī′). 1. The bone of the ankle that articulates with the tibia and fibula to form the ankle joint. Also called anklebone, astragalus. 2. The ankle. talus. n, pl-li (-laɪ). 1. (Anatomy) the bone of the ankle that articulates with the leg bones to form the ankle joint. Nontechnical name: anklebone. [C18: from Latin: ankle].
2. talus-the bone in the ankle that articulates with the leg bones to form the ankle joint. anklebone, astragal, astragalus. bone, os-rigid connective tissue that makes up the skeleton of vertebrates. talus. n, pl-li (-laɪ). 1. (Anatomy) the bone of the ankle that articulates with the leg bones to form the ankle joint. Nontechnical name: anklebone. [C18: from Latin: ankle].
Greek Meaning: The name Talus is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Talus is: Mechanical man made by Hephaestus. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 1.