1 Circuit training is time consuming because it's an extra workout schedule with added cardio. 2  Solution: Use less cardio minutes and higher intensity. 3  Do 1 min of moderate intensity, 20 sec as fast as you can, 1 min moderate intensity, and then 1 min high intensity. 1 Circuit training may be difficult to do in a crowded gym because you will need the machines to be all available so that you can use them quickly without resting or waiting. 2  Solution: Be flexible, and use a different machine or use dumbbells instead of a machine of the particular machine you need is not available.
Participants. Athletes in competitive sports commonly use circuit training as a form of off-or early-season training. It is a good way for athletes to stay in shape during the off-season and get ready for the intensity of training camps. A group of people circuit training in a gym. Photo Credit monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images. Circuit training is the “musical chairs” of the exercise world. Although it may look chaotic to a casual observer, there is method to the madness that constitutes this intense form of exercise.
Circuit training is a form of body conditioning or resistance training using high-intensity aerobics. It targets strength building and muscular endurance. An exercise circuit is one completion of all prescribed exercises in the program. When one circuit is complete, one begins the first exercise again for the next circuit. Traditionally, the time between exercises in circuit training is short, often with rapid movement to the next exercise. The program was developed by R.E. Morgan and G.T. Anderson in 1957 at the University of Leeds in England.
1 By doing circuit training you save 18 minutes in a session. 2  That's why circuit training is such a time efficient way to train. 3  You'll also have to find something else to do instead of the cardio which you hate so much. 4  That's right, if you are using circuits for body composition purposes you don't need to do cardio. 1 Circuit training may be difficult to do in a crowded gym because you will need the machines to be all available so that you can use them quickly without resting or waiting. 2  Solution: Be flexible, and use a different machine or use dumbbells instead of a machine of the particular machine you need is not available.
Circuit training. Circuit training is a form of body conditioning or resistance training using high-intensity aerobics. It targets strength building and muscular endurance. An exercise circuit is one completion of all prescribed exercises in the program. When one circuit is complete, one begins the first exercise again for the next circuit. Traditionally, the time between exercises in circuit training is short, often with rapid movement to the next exercise.
So if strength is a goal, circuit training as your main workout is not for you. Similarly, due to the decrease in weight one must use while training in a circuit fashion, hypertrophy will never be a real benefit of circuit training. 1 Circuit training may be difficult to do in a crowded gym because you will need the machines to be all available so that you can use them quickly without resting or waiting. 2  Solution: Be flexible, and use a different machine or use dumbbells instead of a machine of the particular machine you need is not available.
The purpose of circuit training is to maintain an elevated heart rate throughout the entire routine thus keeping the individual in the right state to continuously burn fat. The number of exercise stations can be anywhere between four and ten exercises within one circuit. 
How It Works. You won't be bored when you do circuit training. This workout gets your heart rate up and strengthens your muscles at the same time. You’ll move quickly through 8-10 exercise stations to work different muscle groups with little to no rest between stations. Each station has a different exercise. 
Circuit training is an intense form of exercise. Talk to your doctor before starting circuit training to make sure this type of exercise is right for you. In addition, if you participate in general fitness circuit training, you also perform an additional 20 minutes of aerobics-only exercise about three days a week. A group of people circuit training in a gym. Photo Credit monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images. Circuit training is the “musical chairs” of the exercise world. Although it may look chaotic to a casual observer, there is method to the madness that constitutes this
Who digs circuit training: Anyone looking for a good sweat to shake out of a training plateau. Circuit classes also are popular among busy people who want to combine a strength and aerobic routine in one workout. However, you don’t get the same level of conditioning as you would from doing your aerobics and strength training separately. If you take circuit classes, aim to get in an additional 20 minutes of straight aerobic exercise at least three days a week. The exhaustion factor: Moderate.