Hordeolum and Stye ». A hordeolum (ie, stye) is a localized infection or inflammation of the eyelid margin involving hair follicles of the eyelashes (ie, external hordeolum) or meibomian glands (ie, internal hordeolum). A stye (or sty) is an acute infection of the secretory glands of the eyelids. Frequently, bacteria can enter and infect an eyelid oil gland, which are present in both the upper and lower eyelids, causing increased inflammation, pain, and redness of the eye, and even redness of the surrounding eyelid and cheek tissue.
A sty is a bump that forms on or in the eyelid as the result of a blocked gland. The word sty can also be spelled stye. There are two distinct types of styes: hordeolum and chalazion. Each has different causes and treatments. A hordeolum is a blockage of one of the sweat glands or oil glands found in the skin of the eyelid, while a chalazion is a blockage of a meibomian gland, which is a special oil gland unique to the eyelids.
Hordeolum. A hordeolum (stye) is an acute, localized swelling of the eyelid that may be external or internal and usually is a pyogenic (typically staphylococcal) infection or abscess. Most hordeola are external and result from obstruction and infection of an eyelash follicle and adjacent glands of Zeis or Moll glands. A chalazion is caused by noninfectious meibomian gland occlusion, whereas a hordeolum usually is caused by infection. Both conditions initially cause eyelid hyperemia and edema, swelling, and pain.
Background. A hordeolum is a common disorder of the eyelid. It is an acute focal infection (usually staphylococcal) involving either the glands of Zeis (external hordeola, or styes) or, less frequently, the meibomian glands (internal hordeola). Next.
For the enclosure for raising pigs, see Sty. For other meanings, see Sty (disambiguation) . An external stye or sty /ˈstaɪ/ , also hordeolum /hɔrˈdiːələm/ , is an infection of the sebaceous glands of Zeis at the base of the eyelashes, or an infection of the apocrine sweat glands of Moll. External styes form on the outside of the lids and can be seen as small red bumps. 
Knowledge center. A stye, also known as hordeolum, is a small collection of pus (abscess) on the eyelid. In most cases, the infection is caused by the staphylococcus bacteria. Often the lump is red and painful and looks like a boil or pimple. Although most styes form on the outside of the eyelid, some of them develop on the inside of the eyelid. Spelling: Sty, stye, sties, styes-all are possible. Meibomian cyst-this is a cyst of the small glands (Meibomian glands) located in the eyelid. The glands discharge a lubricant, called sebum in the edge of the eyelid. A persistent stye on the inside of the eyelid can eventually develop into a Meibomian cyst (chalazions), especially if the gland is blocked.
Chalazia and hordeola (styes) are sudden-onset localized swellings of the eyelid. A chalazion is caused by noninfectious meibomian gland occlusion, whereas a hordeolum usually is caused by infection. Both conditions initially cause eyelid hyperemia and edema, swelling, and pain.
A stye or hordeolum is a small, painful lump on the inside or outside of the eyelid. It is actually an abscess filled with pus and is usually caused by a staphylococcus bacteria eye infection. Styes are common with most people experiencing one or two of them at some stage in their life. 