The geographic area of the cheetah population is dwindling. Today they are mainly found in sub-Sahara Africa. Cheetahs mainly exist in Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Kenya, and Tanzania, and Northwestern Iran. These cats are now thought to be extinct in India and rare in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Russia. Cheetah Distribution. Cheetahs prefer open habitats with unobstructed views of their surroundings.
But today the cheetah is almost entirely limited to sub-Saharan Africa. For the most part, these animals are now found only either in eastern Africa, around the border between southern Kenya and northern Tanzania, or in southern Africa (primarily northern Namibia, Botswana, and western Zambia).
The largest remaining African Cheetah population is located in the region of Namibia and Botswana (Southern Africa), while the second largest population survives in Kenya and Tanzania (East Africa). Battle of the Brains. This question is part of the Battle of the Brains, a multiple choice learning game.
Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) historically lived throughout Africa, the Middle East, and Southern Asia. However, most of the remaining wild cheetah populations are located in sub-Saharan Africa (south of the Saharan Desert) with some smaller populations in Northern Africa and one isolated population still living in Iran.
Cheetahs live in africa found on the savannah plains they used to be found in asia and south america but they are extinct there.
Cheetahs are mostly found in sub-Saharan Africa and in eastern and southern African parks. Some of the animals can still be found in southern Algeria, northern Niger and Iran. They like dry, open grasslands where they can pick up speed to kill prey.
Mainly in Africa but a few in Asia (not many!!!). Cheetah's grow in areas with large land where there is a lot of prey. Cheetahs are found in open and partially open savannas. A cheetahs habit is hunting animals.
Historically, cheetahs were once found throughout all of the African and Asian continents from the far reaches of South Africa all the way to India. However, the species is now confined to parts of eastern, central, and southwestern Africa with small isolated populations found in southwestern Asia.