Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Zyana means-blessing from heaven.The name Zyana originated as an Israeli name. The name Zyana is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-blessing from heaven.
Zyana is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Zya-na. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1922 in baby name popularity for girls with 104 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Modern Hebrew names are often derived from Hebrew vocabulary, for example Aviva (spring) and Dov (bear). Children of Jewish heritage are usually given a Hebrew name for religious purposes and are sometimes also given a local language version of that name for secular purposes.
Name Ziana generally means Bold, is of Indian origin, Name Ziana is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Muslim or Hindu by religion. Find qualities of Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Ziana or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs.
Just for fun, see the name Zyana in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Zyana in Nautical Flags page. Modern Hebrew names are often derived from Hebrew vocabulary, for example Aviva (spring) and Dov (bear). Children of Jewish heritage are usually given a Hebrew name for religious purposes and are sometimes also given a local language version of that name for secular purposes.
Similar Names. Zaina is pronounced similarly to Sana, Sanna, Sina ▼ , Zanna, Zenna, Zinia, Zinya, Zoanna and Zona ▼ . Other suggested similar baby names are Daina, Faina, Jaina, Laina, Raina ▼ , Taina, Zaida, Zaira, Zanne, Zarina and Zin. These names tend to be more frequently used than Zaina. Usage of these girl names reached its peak during the years 1960-1969 (usage of 0.0606%) and has become lower since, with the forms Xena, Xiomara and Zena becoming less stylish. Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Zaina and affiliated names.
Zaina is pronounced similarly to Sana, Sanna, Sina ▼ , Zanna, Zenna, Zinia, Zinya, Zoanna and Zona ▼ . Other suggested similar baby names are Daina, Faina, Jaina, Laina, Raina ▼ , Taina, Zaida, Zaira, Zanne, Zarina and Zin. Usage of these girl names reached its peak during the years 1960-1969 (usage of 0.0606%) and has become lower since, with the forms Xena, Xiomara and Zena becoming less stylish. Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Zaina and affiliated names.
ஜிஅநா; ਜਿਅਨਾ; જિઅના; ജിഅനാ; ಜಿಅನಾ; జిఅనా; জিঅনা. Name Ziana generally means Bold, is of Indian origin, Name Ziana is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Muslim or Hindu by religion. Name Ziana belongs to rashi Meen (Pisces) . Find qualities of Piscean (Meen) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Ziana or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Min (Pisces) with other zodiac signs.
Local language versions of biblical names of Hebrew origin such as Hannah and David are still widely internationally popular today. Modern Hebrew names are often derived from Hebrew vocabulary, for example Aviva (spring) and Dov (bear). Children of Jewish heritage are usually given a Hebrew name for religious purposes and are sometimes also given a local language version of that name for secular purposes.
Ayana /ay-ana/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Ayana's root is Kiswahili, and the meaning of the name Ayana is beautiful flower. Ayana is an alternate spelling of Ayanna (Kiswahili). Compare surname Awana. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Ayana for girls. Ayana was first listed in 1991 and reached its apex rank of #654 in the U.S. in 2001, but is not in the Top 1000 at the moment.