Once a work tool with few creature comforts, in the 1950s consumers began purchasing pickups for lifestyle reasons and by the 1990s less than 15 percent of owners reported use in work as the pickup truck's primary purpose. Today in North America, the pickup is mostly used like a passenger car. Seeking part of this market share, Dodge introduced a 3/4-ton pickup with cab and body constructed entirely of wood in 1924. In 1925 Ford followed up with a Model T-based steel-bodied, half-ton with an adjustable tailgate and heavy-duty rear springs.
In other words, when it comes to large crew-cab pickups, the F-150's dimensions top rival trucks. With that said, only a few inches separate each pickup, so we don't think you'd have too much trouble fitting the whole family in any large, crew-cab truck. If you're thinking about a full-size truck that can fit the whole family, you're probably interested in interior dimensions. The current class leader in rear legroom is the Ford F-150 SuperCrew, followed closely by the Toyota Tundra CrewMax.
A full-size pickup truck can fit up to six people comfortably if it has a front bench seat. Without the front bench, a truck accommodates five people. The beauty of a truck's rear seat in a crew cab is that three child-safety seats often will easily fit across the rear bench. 
Many of today's crew-cab pickups have the same legroom as a luxury sedan, and even shoppers who don't go for a crew cab will find that many extended-cab trucks have more passenger room than you'd need under usual circumstances. If you're thinking about a full-size truck that can fit the whole family, you're probably interested in interior dimensions. The current class leader in rear legroom is the Ford F-150 SuperCrew, followed closely by the Toyota Tundra CrewMax.
Extended Cab Trucks. 2012 Silverado LT Extended Cab Pickup Truck. Photo Credit: Silverado Photo © General Motors. Chevy and GMC call this pickup truck body style an Extended Cab. Trucks with this cab style have a second row of seating, but the rear seats -- and access to them -- are configured in different ways. The important thing to remember is that an Extended Cab truck's second row of seating is more compact than that of a Crew Cab truck and is not accessed through full size doors. Crew Cab Pickup Trucks. 2012 Ram Express Crew Cab Truck. Photo Credit: © Ram. Our collection of cab style photos will help you visualize the many body styles you'll see when you shop for a pickup truck -- use the images to preview and choose a cab style that suits your needs.
We also help you share the load inside your truck, with 24 models in the crew cab range, including the 4,500 kg GVM rated NLS, NNR and higher capacity NPR models right up to the 13,900 kg GVM rated FTS models. A REAL HEAD TURNER, UNLESS YOU'RE THE DRIVER. Based on the class-leading N and F Series, Isuzu now has 10 Crew Cab models with a total of 18 variants including 4x4 and Tipper configurations. Whether you're digging, paving, pruning, or even putting out a blaze, there's only one truck to choose to share the load with your crew. DOWNLOAD BROCHURE.
There are also two larger cab varieties. Most trucks offer an extended cab configuration, which boasts smaller seats in back and, in many cases, small doors behind the front doors that open to provide rear-seat access. If you're only getting a larger cab for some enclosed storage space, an extended cab will likely work just fine. You'll also want to consider a truck's cost. Extended cab pickups are often several thousand dollars less expensive than crew cab models. But it's not all about the upfront cost, as crew cabs will likely have better resale value
Many of today's crew-cab trucks offer impressive rear-seat room that'll allow even the tallest passengers to spread out in back. The only drawback to a crew-cab truck: capability. Many manufacturers don't offer their longest truck beds with a crew cab, since it would make the truck too large to drive on most roads. And most crew-cab trucks can't tow as well as regular or extended-cab models. If you're thinking about a full-size truck that can fit the whole family, you're probably interested in interior dimensions. The current class leader in rear legroom is the Ford F-150 SuperCrew, followed closely by the Toyota Tundra CrewMax.
One thing to consider is how big you want your truck to be. Many pickups don't offer their longest bed in crew cab guise, as most crew cab shoppers aren't looking for the practicality of a huge bed. Trucks that offer both a crew cab and a full-size bed are extremely long and, as a result, hard to maneuver. Once you've considered size, the next important question is just how often your family and friends will be riding with you. If you're only getting a larger cab for some enclosed storage space, an extended cab will likely work just fine. You'll also want to consider a truck's cost. Extended cab pickups are often several thousand dollars less expensive than crew cab models. But it's not all about the upfront cost, as crew cabs will likely have better resale value