With Skype Mobile, users can make free calls to other Skype phones, or calls to non-Skype phones for a fee. To transform your mobile phone into a device capable of making cheap international calls, you need to consider a few things. Ideally, you have a smartphone that can access Wi-Fi, like an iPhone or a Droid. SKYPE FOR MOBILE Like the program for Mac and PCs, Skype Mobile lets you make free calls and send instant messages to fellow Skype users. You can also call non-Skype landlines and cellphones using Skype Credit, a fee-based service that charges pennies per minute for international calls.
1 While Skype's rates are very low (or free, for Skype-to-Skype calls), you also need to figure in the cost of internet access. 2  If you're using a mobile broadband service, you may discover that international Internet access will cost you more per minute than using an unlocked GSM cell phone. 1 Skype's rates are very, very competitive. 2  As of this writing, calls to Germany or China are $0.024 per minute (plus a connection fee of $0.045), while Verizon charges $0.10 per minute to call Germany and $0.15 per minute for calls to China from my home phone.
How to dial international calls using Skype. To dial using SkypeOut use the following sequence in the dial box in your Skype window: +, country code, area code, number. Note-if the area code starts with a 0 then ignore this first 0
You can also enter a country code manually. To dial a country code, for example +44, click and hold the 0 + button for two seconds on the Skype dial pad, then release; the + symbol appears in the Enter number box. 1  Enter the number you want to call. 2  Click the blue call button
1 Skype accepts PayPal, credit cards and Skype prepaid cards as payment methods. 2  If you haven't yet added the person you want to call to your Contacts list, sign in to Skype and click Contacts and Add Contacts.. 3  Enter the person's full name, Skype name, phone number or email address. Step 3. Click the contact's name. If a green, yellow or red cloud status icon appears next to his name, the contact is using Skype. If you don't see one of these icons, the contact is not on Skype and you will need to place a paid international call to contact him.
How to dial international numbers using Google voice. From the website: Click the Call button at the top left of the page and enter +country code or +1countrycode (depending where you're calling) followed by the international number. To dial using SkypeOut use the following sequence in the dial box in your Skype window: +, country code, area code, number.
Learn more about mobile and landline rates. To dial an international number: 1  Sign into Skype and click the call phones icon. 2  The dial pad opens. 3  Skype automatically displays your current country and the relevant calling rates. 4  Click the country name above the dial pad, then select the country you need to make a call to from the drop-down list. To dial a country code, for example +44, click and hold the 0 + button for two seconds on the Skype dial pad, then release; the + symbol appears in the Enter number box. 1  Enter the number you want to call.
Cons. 1  You can't call for emergency help with Skype. 2  If you don't have a land line or cell phone available for emergency calls, you'll have to learn how to use pay phones and telephone calling cards in your destination country in order to get emergency assistance. 1 Skype's rates are very, very competitive. 2  As of this writing, calls to Germany or China are $0.024 per minute (plus a connection fee of $0.045), while Verizon charges $0.10 per minute to call Germany and $0.15 per minute for calls to China from my home phone.
Click the Contacts tab and select the contact you want to call. If you can't find the contact you want, type his name into the search box. Skype will find the contact in your list. Related Reading: How to Use Skype To Go to Make Local Calls. Step 3. Click the contact's name. If a green, yellow or red cloud status icon appears next to his name, the contact is using Skype. If you don't see one of these icons, the contact is not on Skype and you will need to place a paid international call to contact him.
Calling from Skype to someone else on Skype. Skype-to-Skype calls are free. It doesn’t matter where you are in the world, or where the person you’re calling is. It doesn’t even matter if you’re using Skype on a computer, a mobile* or your TV. As long as you’re both using Skype, the call is completely free. You can make Skype-to-Skype calls using video or just voice – it’s up to you. Make a voice call with up to 25 people at once and that’s free too (as long as everyone’s on Skype). If you want to have a video call with more than two people, that's free too. * WiFi connection or mobile data plan required. 