1 Anxiety may cause dry mouth by taking water away from your mouth and sending it to the areas of your body that need it, or by increasing acids in your stomach that may contribute to a loss of saliva. 2  Anxiety can also cause you to feel sick, which may also lead to conditions that feel like dry mouth. 1 Anxiety can also cause you to feel sick, which may also lead to conditions that feel like dry mouth. 2  All of these can make you feel like you're thirsty when you're not. 3  Not Drinking Water/Dehydration Of course, one of the simplest explanations is that you're not drinking enough water.
It is usually appropriate to drink fluids when you are thirsty and not to drink fluids when you are not thirsty. If you suspect that your thirst patterns are not normal, or if you notice a sudden change in your thirst, it is important to contact a physician to determine the cause of these symptoms. Thirst is the desire to drink fluids, and it is a normal, everyday feeling. Depending on your activities and diet, you may notice changes in how thirsty you feel during a particular day and on different days. Major changes in your patterns of thirst, however, may be symptoms of a disease or medical condition
Excessive thirst or dipsesis is a condition that causes extreme fluid loss while depleting the water from your body, thereby causing excessive thirst. You can lose large amounts of water from your body through excessive urination, diarrhoea, vomiting and sweating. 
Causes of Excessive Thirst. It is normal to feel thirsty after eating salty or spicy foods, or after engaging in strenuous exercise or sporting events, especially when it is hot. You may also feel thirsty when you suffer from diarrhea, vomiting, burns, or a significant loss of blood. Some prescription medications also cause thirst. 1 diabetes: Excessive thirst can be caused by high blood sugar (hyperglycemia), and is often one of the first noticeable symptoms of diabetes.
This can make you feel thirsty because your brain is telling you to drink more to make up for the fluids you've lost. If you feel thirsty all the time and have other symptoms, your GP will probably carry out a blood glucose test to see whether you have diabetes. Pregnancy. Feeling thirsty, as well as urinating more often than usual, is a common symptom in pregnancy and usually nothing to worry about. Read more about urinating a lot in pregnancy. Very occasionally, these problems can be a sign of gestational diabetes (a type of diabetes that affects women during pregnancy).
William-Adolphe Bouguereau 's Thirst (1886). Thirst is the craving for fluids, resulting in the basic instinct of animals to drink. It is an essential mechanism involved in fluid balance. It arises from a lack of fluids or an increase in the concentration of certain osmolites, such as salt. Excessive thirst, known as polydipsia, along with excessive urination, known as polyuria, may be an indication of diabetes mellitus or diabetes insipidus. There are receptors and other systems in the body that detect a decreased volume or an increased osmolite concentration.
If you feel thirsty all the time, it could be a sign of diabetes – particularly if you also have other symptoms such as needing to urinate frequently, extreme tiredness (fatigue) and unexplained weight loss. Diabetes is a lifelong condition that makes it difficult to control the level of sugar (glucose) in your blood. Pregnancy. Feeling thirsty, as well as urinating more often than usual, is a common symptom in pregnancy and usually nothing to worry about. Read more about urinating a lot in pregnancy. Very occasionally, these problems can be a sign of gestational diabetes (a type of diabetes that affects women during pregnancy).
Introduction. Feeling thirsty all the time and for no good reason isn't normal and should be investigated by your GP. Thirst is normally just the brain's way of warning that you're dehydrated because you're not drinking enough fluid. Pregnancy. Feeling thirsty, as well as urinating more often than usual, is a common symptom in pregnancy and usually nothing to worry about. Read more about urinating a lot in pregnancy. Very occasionally, these problems can be a sign of gestational diabetes (a type of diabetes that affects women during pregnancy).
1 Dry Mouth Anxiety does have a tendency to cause dry mouth, and dry mouth can feel like thirst. 2  Anxiety may cause dry mouth by taking water away from your mouth and sending it to the areas of your body that need it, or by increasing acids in your stomach that may contribute to a loss of saliva. 1 Anxiety can also cause you to feel sick, which may also lead to conditions that feel like dry mouth. 2  All of these can make you feel like you're thirsty when you're not. 3  Not Drinking Water/Dehydration Of course, one of the simplest explanations is that you're not drinking enough water.