ShareCompartir. Soil-transmitted helminths refer to the intestinal worms infecting humans that are transmitted through contaminated soil (helminth means parasitic worm): Ascaris lumbricoides (sometimes called just . Ascaris ), whipworm (Trichuris trichiura), and hookworm (Anclostoma duodenale and Necator americanus). 
1 Soil-transmitted helminth infections are caused by different species of parasitic worms. 2  They are transmitted by eggs present in human faeces, which contaminate the soil in areas where sanitation is poor. Soil-transmitted helminth infections are among the most common infections worldwide and affect the poorest and most deprived communities. They are transmitted by eggs present in human faeces which in turn contaminat
There is no clear consensus on the taxonomy of helminths; it is more of a commonly used term to describe certain worms with superficial similarities. The nematodes are the most diverse of all the helminths with the highest number of species. Characteristics that are common for all helminths include: Life time: 1  The life time of adult worms varies tremendously from one species to another but is generally in the range of 1 to 8 years (see following table).
Many, but not all, of the worms referred to as helminths belong to the group of intestinal parasites. An infection by a helminth is known as helminthiasis, soil-transmitted helminthiasis, helminth infection or intestinal worm infection. The nematodes are the most diverse of all the helminths with the highest number of species. Characteristics that are common for all helminths include: Life time: 1  The life time of adult worms varies tremendously from one species to another but is generally in the range of 1 to 8 years (see following table).
Helminthic therapy, an experimental type of immunotherapy, is the treatment of autoimmune diseases and immune disorders by means of deliberate infestation with a helminth or with the ova of a helminth. Helminthic therapy consists of the inoculation of the patient with specific parasitic intestinal nematodes (helminths).
Helminth Parasites. The word ‘helminth’ is a general term meaning ‘worm’, but there are many different types of worms. Prefixes are therefore used to designate types: platy-helminths for flat-worms and nemat-helminths for round-worms. 
Medical Definition of HELMINTH. : a parasitic worm (as a tapeworm, liver fluke, ascarid, or leech); especially: one that parasitizes the intestine of a vertebrate. — hel·min·thic \hel-ˈmin(t)-thik\ adjective. Definition of HELMINTH. : a parasitic worm (as a tapeworm, liver fluke, ascarid, or leech); especially: an intestinal worm.
Ascaris is the name of a particular helminth, and Ascariasis is the name of the infectious disease caused by this helminth. Helminths are worm-like organisms living in and feeding on living hosts, receiving nourishment and protection while disrupting their hosts' nutrient absorption, causing weakness and disease. The nematodes are the most diverse of all the helminths with the highest number of species. Characteristics that are common for all helminths include: Life time: 1  The life time of adult worms varies tremendously from one species to another but is generally in the range of 1 to 8 years (see following table).
Introduction. Helminth is a general term meaning worm. The helminths are invertebrates characterized by elongated, flat or round bodies. In medically oriented schemes the flatworms or platyhelminths (platy from the Greek root meaning “flat”) include flukes and tapeworms. Roundworms are nematodes (nemato from the Greek root meaning “thread”)
helminths (hel´minths) , n.pl the parasitic worms that cause disease and illness in humans such as tapeworm, pinworm, and trichinosis. They are usually transmitted via contaminated food, water, soil, or other objects. Adult worms live in the intestines and other organs.