February 20, 2013 by True Activist. They come in all different sizes, shapes and colours. The seed is an embryonic plant itself and the origin of nutrition. A plant goes to great lengths to produce each seed and fill it with high concentrations of vitamins, minerals, proteins, essential oils and dormant enzymes. 
Mustard seeds (Rai) - in Indian cooking brown mustard seeds are more commonly used but black seeds contain a higher proportion of the volatile mustard oil and strongest flavor. The larger yellow variety, known as white mustard are much les pungent. Onion Seeds (Kalonji) - are small, irregular shaped black seeds of the plant that grows in India-Kalonji. This spice can be used fresh or dry roasted in curries, and added to vegetables, relishes, pickles and yogurts.
Grapeseed Oil: Grapeseed oil is extracted from the seeds of grapes, a byproduct of the wine-making industry. Use it on salads and raw veggies or in dips, sauces and salsas. Mix grapeseed oil with garlic and basil, then drizzle it on toasted bread. 
These precious little packages of nutrient glory are popping up everywhere, and for good reason. They’re nutritional powerhouses—loaded with dietary fiber, protein, healthy fats, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. There are many different types of seeds to choose from, and they’re easy to incorporate into a variety of dishes, adding a boost of flavor, nutrition, and crunch. 
1 Sapote oil, used as a cooking oil in Guatemala. 2  Seje oil, from the seeds of Jessenia bataua. 3  Used in South America as an edible oil, similar to olive oil, as well as for soaps and in the cosmetics industry. 4  Shea butter, much of which is produced by poor, African women. Vegetable oils can be classified in several ways, for example: 1  By source: most, but not all vegetable oils are extracted from the fruits or seeds of plants, and the oils may be classified by grouping oils from similar plants, such as nut oils.
There are many types of flour milled from a wide variety of seeds. Most of the seeds used for flour are also prepared and cooked similar to actual cereal grains, so many people make no distinction between grain-like seeds and actual grains because of the similar ways in which they are used. Many of the types of flour ground from seeds are described below.
There are several types of plant oils, distinguished by the method used to extract the oil from the plant. The relevant part of the plant may be placed under pressure to extract the oil, giving an expressed (or pressed) oil. The oils included in this list are of this type. Vegetable oils can be classified in several ways, for example: 1  By source: most, but not all vegetable oils are extracted from the fruits or seeds of plants, and the oils may be classified by grouping oils from similar plants, such as nut oils.
Quinoa, a pseudocereal. A variety of species can provide edible seeds. Of the six major plant parts, seeds are the dominant source of human calories and protein. The other five major plant parts are roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and fruits. 1 Nuts are botanically a specific type of fruit, but the term is also applied to many edible seeds that are not nuts in a botanical sense. 2  Gymnosperms produce nut-like seeds but neither flowers nor fruits.
Buckwheat Flour. Buckwheat flour is a variety of gluten-free flour obtained by grinding the seeds of the buckwheat plant. Buckwheat flour has a slightly sour flavor and it is sometimes processed with the addition of wheat flour in order to temper the taste. Most of the seeds used for flour are also prepared and cooked similar to actual cereal grains, so many people make no distinction between grain-like seeds and actual grains because of the similar ways in which they are used. Many of the types of flour ground from seeds are described below.
1 The pulp oil is used as a skin conditioner. 2  The seed oil is sold for use as a cooking oil and for making soap due to its high lauric acid content. 3  Ucuhuba seed oil, extracted from the seeds of Virola surinamensis, is unusually high in myristic acid. Vegetable oils can be classified in several ways, for example: 1  By source: most, but not all vegetable oils are extracted from the fruits or seeds of plants, and the oils may be classified by grouping oils from similar plants, such as nut oils.