Earthquake Summary Poster. The following is a release by the United States Geological Survey, National Earthquake Information Center: An earthquake occurred 90 km (55 miles) WNW of Chengdu, Sichuan, China and 1545 km (960 miles) SW of BEIJING, Beijing, China at 12:28 AM MDT, May 12, 2008 (2:28 PM local time in China). 
Sichuan was China's most populous province before Chongqing became a directly-controlled municipality; it is currently the fourth most populous, after Guangdong, Shandong and Henan. As of 1832, Sichuan was the most populous of the 18 provinces in China, with an estimated population at that time of 21 million. Grain, including rice and wheat, is the major product with output that ranked first in China in 1999. Commercial crops include citrus fruits, sugar cane, sweet potatoes, peaches and grapes. Sichuan also had the largest output of pork among all the provinces and the second largest output of silkworm cocoons in 1999.
Sichuan has been historically known as the Province of Abundance. It is one of the major agricultural production bases of China. Grain, including rice and wheat, is the major product with output that ranked first in China in 1999. Commercial crops include citrus fruits, sugar cane, sweet potatoes, peaches and grapes. Sichuan also had the largest output of pork among all the provinces and the second largest output of silkworm cocoons in 1999.
Sichuan Province. Located in the upper reaches of the Changjiang (Yangtze) River in the southwest part of China, it is bounded by Shaanxi, Gansu,Qinghai,Yunnan, Guizhou, Xizang(Tibet) and Chongqing Municipality, and has long been known as a land of plenty or Heaven on Earth for its abundance of products. Area: about 480000km2. Sichuan has a varied topography. Mountainous areas occupy its west, and Sichuan Basin and its peripheral highlands predominate in the east. The relief of the eastern region is in sharp contrast to that of the west. The precipitation is lower in the west than in the east. Sichuan has a long history and was once the place of the Ba and Shu States during the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period, therefore, possessing a great number of cultural relics and historic sites.
9) Most of Sichuan Province's population is Han Chinese. However, there is a significant population of minorities such as Tibetans, Yi, Qiang and Naxi in the province as well. Sichuan was China's most populous province until 1997 when Chongqing was separated from it. Sichuan is an important province to China because of its abundant agricultural resources which include such Chinese staples as rice and wheat. Sichuan is also rich in mineral resources and is one of China's main industrial centers.
Cities [edit]. 1  Chengdu — the capital of Sichuan with 2,000 years of history, the southeastern part is encircled by small mountains and to the north east is Chengdu Campagna. Climate [edit]. Sichuan is a relatively large province, with very large differences in climate. Therefore, the best time to see and travel different scenic spots in Sichuan is often not the same. You should decide the destinations you want to visit first.
Sichuan is the second largest of China's 23 provinces based on its land area of 187,260 square miles (485,000 sq km). It is located in southwestern China adjacent to the country's largest province, Qinghai. Sichuan's capital city is Chengdu and as of 2007, the province had a population of 87,250,000 people. Sichuan is an important province to China because of its abundant agricultural resources which include such Chinese staples as rice and wheat. Sichuan is also rich in mineral resources and is one of China's main industrial centers. The following is a list of ten things to know about Sichuan Province:
Chengdu Economic and Technological Development Zone (CETDZ) lies 13.6 km (8.5 mi) east of Chengdu, the capital city of Sichuan Province and the hub of transportation and communication in southwest China. Grain, including rice and wheat, is the major product with output that ranked first in China in 1999. Commercial crops include citrus fruits, sugar cane, sweet potatoes, peaches and grapes. Sichuan also had the largest output of pork among all the provinces and the second largest output of silkworm cocoons in 1999.
The governor of Sichuan is the highest-ranking official in the People's Government of Sichuan. However, in the province's dual party-government governing system, the Governor has less power than the Sichuan Communist Party of China's Party Committee Secretary, colloquially termed the Sichuan CPC Party Chief. Grain, including rice and wheat, is the major product with output that ranked first in China in 1999. Commercial crops include citrus fruits, sugar cane, sweet potatoes, peaches and grapes. Sichuan also had the largest output of pork among all the provinces and the second largest output of silkworm cocoons in 1999.
A resident of the Liangshan region in Sichuan Province, China. © Steve Blake/TNC. In the Liangshan region of Sichuan Province, clumps of tree stumps dot rocky hills, sticking out like patchy stubble on an otherwise denuded landscape. Deforestation has taken a toll here, leaving local people and an abundance of wildlife increasingly pressed for the resources they need to survive. While the Sichuan Forestry Department is now dedicated to conservation (as is all of China, which is planning on reforesting 40 million hectares of land before 2020), not all of Liangshan’s communities are as concerned with preserving the environment.