Asset. Assets are everything you own that has any monetary value, plus any money you are owed. They include money in bank accounts, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, equity in real estate, the value of your life insurance policy, and any personal property that people would pay to own. Asset. In accounting, anything of value that a person or firm buys. Assets can be physical, such as real estate or stocks, a claim on debts, such as accounts receivable or liens, or a right, such as a patent. Of crucial importance to assets is their relative liquidity, or the ease with which they can be converted to cash
DEFINITION of 'Financial Asset'. An asset that derives value because of a contractual claim. Stocks, bonds, bank deposits, and the like are all examples of financial assets. Next Up. 
Asset finance is a loan that is used to obtain equipment. Whenever organisations invest in tangible assets-anything from office equipment to manufacturing plants, from cars to a fleet of aircraft-they usually need an affordable, secure means of finance. That's exactly what the asset finance sector is all about. Asset finance is a flexible alternative to a traditional bank loan, providing significant cash flow and tax benefits for businesses looking to purchase a new piece of equipment, a vehicle or other fixed assets.
Choosing the right type of asset finance can help save you time and money to invest in growing your business. You can also reduce the risk of owning obsolete equipment and there can be various tax outcomes too. Macquarie considers all manner of assets for finance. Chattel Mortgages are a popular finance solution where you own the asset from the outset and your loan agreement is secured by the asset. You can tailor your loan payments by choosing the term — typically up to five years.
With asset finance packages, hire purchase and leasing, you can breakdown the payment of your assets into monthly bite-sized chunks. This makes the investment much more affordable and has less of an impact on your cashflow. Deposit: You will likely be charged a 10-20% deposit of the asset’s value. Hire purchase is similar to leasing in the sense that you make monthly payments, however there is one major difference – you own the asset at the end of the contract.
This type of financing is typically used for short-term borrowing or working capital. Companies using asset financing commonly pledge their accounts receivable, but the use of inventory assets is becoming more frequent. AAA |. Using balance sheet assets (such as accounts receivable, short-term investments or inventory) to obtain a loan or borrow money-the borrower provides a security interest in the assets to the lender.
Asset finance is ideal for SMEs that are looking to invest in business growth. Whether you need to purchase new equipment or refinance existing assets, this form of funding is perfect for businesses looking for the flexibility to grow the way they want to. With this product we purchase the asset at an agreed value and finance it back to you over a fixed period with repayments matching the income stream generated by the asset. We can also consider assets that are already under a finance agreement.
DEFINITION of 'Asset Financing'. Using balance sheet assets (such as accounts receivable, short-term investments or inventory) to obtain a loan or borrow money-the borrower provides a security interest in the assets to the lender. AAA |. Using balance sheet assets (such as accounts receivable, short-term investments or inventory) to obtain a loan or borrow money-the borrower provides a security interest in the assets to the lender.