A glutaraldehyde solution of 0.1% to 1.0% concentration may be used for system disinfection and as a preservative for long term storage. It is a sterilant, killing endospores in addition to many microorganisms and viruses. Glutaraldehyde is produced industrially by the oxidation of cyclopentene and by the Diels-Alder reaction of acrolein and methyl vinyl ether followed by hydrolysis. Like other dialdehydes (e.g., glyoxal), it does not exist as the dialdehyde but as the hydrate. These hydrates adopt several equilibrating species.
Glutaraldehyde is a colorless liquid used to sterilize medical and dental equipment. It is in products including Cidex, Glutarex, and Sonacide. Glutaraldehyde is also used in leather tanning and water treatment, and as a chemical preservative. 1 Avoid using the product (substitution): Where possible, the use of glutaraldehyde should be avoided by using less toxic chemicals or other processes for sterilization. 2  Use equipment to avoid exposure (engineering controls): Glutaraldehyde should be used in a contained process along with local exhaust ventilation.
Glutaraldehyde is a colorless, oily, liquid-chemical with a pungent odor. It is used for a number of applications such as the following: 1  A cold sterilant in the health care industry. 2  A cross-linking and tanning agent. 
Potential Hazard. Exposure of employees to glutaraldehyde. Glutaraldehyde is a toxic chemical that is used as a cold sterilant to disinfect and clean heat-sensitive medical, surgical and dental equipment. It is found in products such as Cidex, Aldesen, Hospex, Sporicidin, Omnicide, Matricide, Wavicide and others. 
Introduction This document describes best practices for the safe use of glu-taraldehyde in health care facilities. Glutaraldehyde is used widelyas a cold sterilant to disinfect a variety of heat-sensitiveinstruments, such as endoscopes, bronchoscopes, and dialysisequipment (NIOSH, 2001). Glutaral-dehyde is used in developing solutions as a hardening agent toshorten the drying cycle in film processing. X-ray developers aretypically supplied as a concentrate containing 30-50% weight-to-weight ratio glutaraldehyde and are diluted to working strengthsolutions containing less than 1-2% glutaraldehyde.
A pungent colorless oily liquid, glutaraldehyde is used to sterilise medical and dental equipment. It is also used for industrial water treatment and as a preservative. It is mainly available as an aqueous solution, and in these solutions the aldehyde groups are hydrated. Glutaraldehyde is produced industrially by the oxidation of cyclopentene and by the Diels-Alder reaction of acrolein and methyl vinyl ether followed by hydrolysis. Like other dialdehydes (e.g., glyoxal), it does not exist as the dialdehyde but as the hydrate. These hydrates adopt several equilibrating species.
The hazard: Glutaraldehyde is a toxic chemical that is used for cold sterilization of medical and dental equipment. It is in Cidex and other products. Glutaraldehyde can cause severe irritation of the eyes, nose, throat, lungs, nausea, headaches, drowsiness, and dizziness. 1 Avoid using the product (substitution): Where possible, the use of glutaraldehyde should be avoided by using less toxic chemicals or other processes for sterilization. 2  Use equipment to avoid exposure (engineering controls): Glutaraldehyde should be used in a contained process along with local exhaust ventilation.
glutaraldehyde. a disinfectant used in aqueous solution for sterilization of heat-sensitive equipment and instruments; it is a broad-spectrum microbicide effective against all vegetative bacteria, fungi, and viruses, is sporicidal, and may be used as a liquid sterilant with an extended exposure time. glutaraldehyde. a disinfectant used in aqueous solution for sterilization of non-heat-resistant equipment; also used topically as an anhidrotic and as a tissue fixative for light and electron microscopy. glutaraldehyde coagulation test. a test used for the detection of hypogammaglobulinemia in calves. 1  Facebook.