The best treatment for severe osteoporosis. Treatment for severe osteoporosis is based on the following findings: 1- People with a history of osteoporosis must undergo treatment to reduce the risk of fractures. 2- Evidence suggests that treatment for severe osteoporosis has borne good results in patients.
Osteoporosis and Spine Fractures. Many people -- especially those with osteoporosis -- have severe back pain that's caused by spine fractures. A fractured spine can be extremely painful and also result in disfigurement and immobility. Osteoporosis Bone Fractures: A Treatment Overview. Osteoporosis can be a silent disease, but many patients suffer symptoms such as pain and height loss. Read a brief description of osteoporosis symptoms. Compression Fractures of the Back. Sudden, severe back pain, especially in older women, often signifies a spinal compression fracture -- a sign of weak bones.
The most common cause of osteoporosis pain is a spinal compression fracture. If you have been diagnosed with osteoporosis, or if you have several risk factors for osteoporosis, these symptoms may indicate a compression fracture 1  : Sudden, severe back pain that gets worse when you are standing or walking. 2  Some pain relief when lying down. Medication to Relieve Osteoporosis Pain. Medication is the most popular way to manage osteoporosis pain. Drugs include: 1  Over-the-counter pain medications like acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen are safe pain relievers for most people. 2  These may cause stomach irritation and bleeding or liver problems.
A bone mineral density (BMD) test is can provide a snapshot of your bone health. The test can identify osteoporosis, determine your risk for fractures (broken bones), and measure your response to osteoporosis treatment. 
Osteoporosis is a disease where decreased bone strength increases the risk of a broken bone. It is the most common reason for a broken bone among people who are old. Bones that commonly break include the back bones, the bones of the forearm, and the hip. Until a broken bone occurs there are typically no symptoms. Bone loss increases after menopause due to lower levels of estrogen. Osteoporosis may also occur due to a number of diseases or treatments including alcoholism, anorexia, hyperthyroidism, surgical removal of the ovaries, and kidney disease.
Osteoporosis is a condition that has virtually no symptoms until severe bone damage has already occurred. Once the bones have been weakened by bone density loss, symptoms may include: 1  Back pain. 2  Loss of height over time with stooped posture. 3  Fractures of the vertebrae, wrists, hips or other bones. Without treatment, a person with osteoporosis is likely to have fractures, most often in the spine or hips (which support the body's weight) or in the wrists from bracing against a fall. Fractures of the spine can happen even without a fall or an injury. The bones of the spine become so weak that they start to compress.
But when osteoporosis becomes severe, it can lead to fractures and a condition called kyphosis. Kyphosis is a deformity resulting from spinal compression fractures, sometimes described as the dowager's hump.. Both fractures and kyphosis can be very painful. Medication to Relieve Osteoporosis Pain. Medication is the most popular way to manage osteoporosis pain. Drugs include: 1  Over-the-counter pain medications like acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen are safe pain relievers for most people. 2  These may cause stomach irritation and bleeding or liver problems.
In my first post I said: Your question about severe osteoporosis is a good one, since I've heard differing opinions on this. According to what I've been told, and what the WHO say's about severe osteo, it's any score below -2.5 with one fragility fracture. You can read this below.