The key step when deciding who pays the tax on a gain under an investment bond is to establish who the owners of the bond are when the gain arises. The tax treatment then depends on whether the bond is individually owned or held under a trust / the type of trust.
Tax Disadvantages of an Offshore Investment Bond. 1  For individuals resident in the UK any gains from encasing the offshore investment bond will be chargeable to income tax at their highest marginal rate of income tax in the tax year in which the gain is realised.
Where there is a bond gain and a capital gain in the same tax year, then the capital gain is ignored when calculating the tax due on the bond (but when calculating the CGT liability, the top sliced gain is included as income when determining capital gains tax rates).
Individually owned bonds When a bond is held outside a trust, the individual owners are assessed on any chargeable event gains. If there is more than one bond owner, the gain is normally split equally between the owners.
DEFINITION of 'Chargeable Gain'. A British term for the increase in an asset's value between the time it is purchased and the time it is sold, which becomes subject to capital gains tax. Chargeable gains can often be offset by chargeable losses.
In the event of a chargeable gain on a n investment bond, the gain is added to the investor’s income in the tax year when the chargeable event occurred and only if some or all of this gain falls into the higher rate tax bracket is a tax charge triggered.
Chargeable events. Chargeable events for an investment bond are triggered when one of the following events occur: 1  Full and final encashment of the investment bond. 2  Withdrawals in excess of the 5% per annum cumulative allowance.
In this section we will consider how UK investment bond gains are taxed for individuals, personal representatives and trustees, The relevant legislation is contained in Chapter 9 of the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act (ITTOIA) 2005.
UK investment bonds are not 'qualifying' policies for UK tax purposes and therefore chargeable event gains can arise at any time which contrasts with the position for qualifying policies where broadly, only gains in the first ten years are taxable.
In the event of a chargeable (excess) gain, the amount of the gain is the excess i.e. if 40% is taken after year 3, the excess is 25% as the cumulative 5% allowance totals 15% irrespective of any investment return.