Definition of SCANSION. : the analysis of verse to show its meter. See scansion defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Noun. 1. scansion-analysis of verse into metrical patterns. cadence, metre, meter, measure, beat - (prosody) the accent in a metrical foot of verse. Translations. [ˈskaenʃən] ˈskænʃən [ n of ] → poetry escansion. escansión f scansion. n. 1. (Poetry) the analysis of the metrical structure of verse. See quantity 7, stress 4. [C17: from Latin: climbing up, from scandere to climb, scan].
1 The action of scanning a line of verse to determine its rhythm: the verse defies easy scansion. More example sentences. 1  Using conventional scansion the lines would scan. 1 Using conventional scansion the lines would scan. 2  After a brisk run-through of key terms-they include scansion, rhyme, caesura, verse-he proceeds to a series of Shakespearean speeches for analysis, which form the main section here.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of scansion from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
1 iamb (˘ ʹ) - A two-syllable foot where an unstressed syllable is followed by a stressed syllable. 2  trochee or choree (ʹ ˘) - A two-syllable foot where a stressed syllable is followed by an unstressed syllable. 3  pyrrhic or dibrach (˘ ˘) - A two-syllable foot where both syllables are unstressed. 1 bacchius (˘ ʹ ʹ) - A three-syllable foot where the first syllable is unstressed and the last two syllables are stressed. 2  antibaccius (ʹ ʹ ˘) - A three-syllable foot where the first two syllables are stressed and the third syllable is unstressed.
Scansion. the artificial reading of poetry to emphasize its metric structure. In the scanning of syllabic verse, each syllable is emphasized separately. 
Lesson Summary. In summary, scansion is the process of using visual cues to show the weak and strong syllables in a line of poetry. Scansion can be used to figure out a poem's meter, but it can also be used to get a better understanding of the many rhythms used in free verse. Usually, it's pretty easy to hear the rhythm in poetry, but describing that rhythm is another matter entirely. In this lesson, we'll explore the process of scansion, which allows us to break down the rhythm of poetry using visual clues.