They are pyramidal in shape and have 3 surfaces, a base, and an apex. They are located superior to the cricoid cartilage in the posterior part of the larynx, with the base of the arytenoid cartilages articulating on either side with the posterior aspect of the upper border of the cricoid lamina.
A tough, elastic, fibrous connective tissue found in various parts of the body, such as the joints, outer ear, and larynx. A major constituent of the embryonic and young verte … brate skeleton, it is converted largely to bone with maturation.   A: Cartilage is a very flexible connective tissue.
Just above the vocal cords, the epiglottis is also attached to the back of the thyroid... speech: Cartilages of the larynx. ...cartilage below, which resembles a signet ring and connects the thyroid to the trachea or windpipe; and the leaf-shaped epiglottis, or laryngeal lid, on top.
1 These cartilages are attached to the apices of the arytenoid cartilages. 2  The cuneiform (L. wedge-shaped) cartilages lie in the aryepiglottic folds and are approximated to the tubercle of the epiglottis when the inlet of the larynx is closed during swallowing.
The inferior border of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the cricoid cartilage by the cricothyroid membrane in the midline and the cricothyroid muscles on either side. The superior horn along with the entire superior edge of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the hyoid bone by the thyrohyoid membrane.
Corniculate and Cuneiform Cartilages. These minor paired cartilages are seen as nodules in the posterior aryepiglottic folds. The corniculate cartilages attach themselves to the apex of the arytenoid cartilages where the aryepiglottic fold inserts and that is how the nodule-shape in the fold is made. The cuneiform cartilages do not attach themselves to any other cartilages, just muscles and ligaments.
The arytenoid cartilages are the only major cartilages to be paired, since the corniculate and cuneiform cartilages are seen to be minor cartilages. They are pyramidal in shape and have three faces.
The larynx is composed of 3 large, unpaired cartilages (cricoid, thyroid, epiglottis); 3 pairs of smaller cartilages (arytenoids, corniculate, cuneiform); and a number of intrinsic muscles (see the images below).