1 If for any reason this method does not work, you can also mute noise by connecting a pair of headphones to your iPhone. 2  By plugging headphones into the jack, most sounds including the camera click are played through the headphones instead of the iPhone's speaker. 3  You can also use music to mute the shutter sound.
Instead, you will need to hit the mute switch on the side of the iPhone itself before taking pictures if you want to mute the camera sound. Yes, believe it or not, that’s the only way to easily disable the shutter sound effect.
Note that following the steps below will also mute other noises on your device, such as your ringtone and many notification sounds. If you wish to hear these additional sounds, then make sure to un-mute the device after you have taken your pictures without the camera noise. Step 1: Locate the mute button on your iPhone.
Camera scheduling allows you to turn your camera on/off automatically using a time schedule or location that you set. You can also use an Alerts Schedule to turn your alerts on/off (Motion, Sound, and Offline)
Select the Settings icon. To access your Settings, open the Dropcam app and select your camera. Then click the Settings icon in the right corner of your video window. Here is what you have available on the main Settings page: Camera on/off toggle: manually turn your camera on or off using this button.
Instructions. Close your camera app and press your iPhone's Home button to view your main screen. Locate the Ring/Silent switch right above the volume control buttons on the side of your iPhone and switch it off. You will know it is in the mute position if you can see an orange bar on the switch.
Step 1: Touch the Camera icon on your phone to open the application. Step 2: Move the Mute switch on the left side of the phone so that you can see an orange stripe above it. Step 3: You should then see a mute icon on your screen. Step 4: Take the picture(s) that you wanted to take without hearing the shutter sound.