The word  ceramic comes from the Greek word κεραμικός (keramikos), of pottery or for pottery, from κέραμος (keramos), potter's clay, tile, pottery. The earliest known mention of the root ceram- is the Mycenaean Greek ke-ra-me-we, workers of ceramics, written in Linear B syllabic script.
Video: Defining ceramics. A ceramic is an inorganic non-metallic solid made up of either metal or non-metal compounds that have been shaped and then hardened by heating to high temperatures. In general, they are hard, corrosion-resistant and brittle. Ceramic comes from the Greek word meaning ‘pottery’.
All clay is a ceramic material, but there are other ceramic materials, as well. Glazes are also ceramic materials, because they permanently change during firing. Industrial ceramics include a range of materials such as silica carbide and zirconium oxide.
Ceramics are classified as inorganic and nonmetallic materials that are essential to our daily lifestyle. Ceramic and materials engineers are the people who design the processes in which these products can be made, create new types of ceramic products, and find different uses for ceramic products in everyday life.
Ceramics are generally made by taking mixtures of clay, earthen elements, powders, and water and shaping them into desired forms. Once the ceramic has been shaped, it is fired in a high temperature oven known as a kiln. Often, ceramics are covered in decorative, waterproof, paint-like substances known as glazes.
While a few artisans still craft ceramic tiles by hand, the majority of ceramic tiles made today go through a process known as dry pressing or dust pressing. This process requires much less labor and time, which is part of the reason that ceramic tile is not just for Egyptian kings anymore.
Firing is the process by which ceramics have traditionally been made; indeed, the word ceramic can be traced back to a Sanskrit word meaning to burn.. Simple ceramics such as bricks and certain types of glass are still made by processes that would be recognized by people who lived thousands of years ago.
1. (Ceramics) a hard brittle material made by firing clay and similar substances. 2. (Ceramics) an object made from such a material. adj. 3. (Ceramics) of, relating to, or made from a ceramic: this vase is ceramic. 4. (Ceramics) of or relating to ceramics: ceramic arts and crafts.
A ceramic is an inorganic, nonmetallic solid material comprising metal, nonmetal or metalloid atoms primarily held in ionic and covalent bonds. The crystallinity of ceramic materials ranges from highly oriented to semi-crystalline, and often completely amorphous (e.g., glasses).