The first hearing aid using a vacuum tube was the “Vactuphone,” invented by Hanson in 1920. It was produced by Western Electric Co., a leading producer of hearing aids, and distributed by Globe Phone Co. beginning in October 1921 (13). 
In 1898, the first electric hearing aid was invented by Miller Reese Hutchinson and the company Akoulathon built and sold this instrument. He later improved his invention in 1901 and the first wearable hearing aid was made by him. 
Considered by many as the inventor of the first electronic hearing aid. He stands behind two milestones in the history of the hearing aids. Back in 1899, he established a firm named Akouphone (along with J Wilson). They invented the first electronic hearing aid (they named it Akoulathon). You have to place it on a table in order to use it and it was sold for about 400$. It was made of a carbon microphone, battery and ear set. In 1901, Hutchison improved this invention and made the first wearable hearing aid.
The hearing aid has existed in some form or fashion dating back to the earliest recorded times. Hearing aids were invented with the intention of helping the deaf to be a functioning member of society, by being able to comprehend speech. The goal of the hearing aid was to be able to provide inclusion. The hearing has certainly done that, but creating a model that was practical was, and is, an ongoing journey.
The first hearing aid was created in the 17th century. The movement toward modern hearing aids began with the creation of the telephone, and the first electric hearing aid was created in 1898. By the late 20th century, the digital hearing aid was distributed to the public commercially. Some of the first hearing aids were external hearing aids. These abilities were used in the creation of the hearing aid. The first electric hearing aid, called the Akouphone, was created by Miller Reese Hutchison in 1898. It used a carbon transmitter, so that the hearing aid could be portable.
The movement toward modern hearing aids began with the creation of the telephone, and the first electric hearing aid was created in 1898. By the late 20th century, digital hearing aids were commercially available. 
The first hearing aid was created in the 17th century. The movement toward modern hearing aids began with the creation of the telephone, and the first electric hearing aid was created in 1898. By the late 20th century, the digital hearing aid was distributed to the public commercially. Some of the first hearing aids were external hearing aids. Telephones were able to control the loudness, frequency, and distortion of sounds. These abilities were used in the creation of the hearing aid. The first electric hearing aid, called the Akouphone, was created by Miller Reese Hutchison in 1898. It used a carbon transmitter, so that the hearing aid could be portable.
No one really knows who invented the first hearing aid device. A study of the history of hearing aids will show that one of the first electric hearing aids was the Akoulathon. This was made by Miller Reese Hutchinson in 1898. Hutchinson’s Invention. Hutchinson’s creation was sold in 1901 by the Akaphone Company. 