A firkin, derived from the Dutch word vierdekijn (meaning fourth), is actually a small barrel of beer that is one-fourth the size of a stand full barrel of beer; as opposed to a standard beer barrel, which contains 30.96 gallons, a firkin full of cask ale will contain a volume of 10.79 gallons. 
I get asked a lot what the heck a firkin is and why do people serve beer in one. Well, here is the answer. A firkin is a unit of measure and also the size of a particular kind of keg used for cask conditioning; one quarter of a barrel, 72 pints, 9 imperial gallons. Firkins can be wooden or metal. The most curious thing about them is the manner in which they are tapped. 
The tun is a cask that is double the size of a butt and is equal to six barrels and has a capacity of 216 imperial gallons (982.0 l). Invented in Brentford, a tun was used in local breweries to measure large amounts alcohol. Capacities of brewery casks were formerly measured and standardised according to a specific system of English units. The system was originally based on the ale gallon of 282 cubic inches.
Firkin may refer to: 1  Firkin (unit) , Small cask used for liquids, butter, salt, and sometimes fish: 2  Firkin, a volume of beer; see English brewery cask units#Firkin. 3  Firkin Brewery, a chain of pubs in the United Kingdom. 1 Firkin (unit) , Small cask used for liquids, butter, salt, and sometimes fish: 2  Firkin, a volume of beer; see English brewery cask units#Firkin.
Definition of FIRKIN. 1. : a small wooden vessel or cask. 2. : any of various British units of capacity usually equal to 1⁄4 barrel. See firkin defined for kids. 
Nouns denoting quantities and units of measure. Hypernyms (firkin is a kind of...): British capacity unit; Imperial capacity unit (a unit of measure for capacity officially adopted in the British Imperial System; British units are both dry and wet). Meronyms (parts of firkin): congius; gallon; Imperial gallon (a British imperial capacity measure (liquid or dry) equal to 4 quarts or 4.545 liters). Holonyms (firkin is a part of...): kilderkin (an obsolete British unit of capacity equal to 18 Imperial gallons)
The ale or beer firkin (from Middle Dutch vierdekijn meaning fourth) is a quarter of an ale or beer barrel or half a kilderkin. This unit is much smaller than the wine firkin. Casks in this size (themselves called firkins) are the most common container for cask ale. Capacities of brewery casks were formerly measured and standardised according to a specific system of English units. The system was originally based on the ale gallon of 282 cubic inches.
The noun FIRKIN has 2 senses: 1. a British unit of capacity equal to 9 imperial gallons. 2. a small wooden keg. Familiarity information: FIRKIN used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (firkin is a kind of...): British capacity unit; Imperial capacity unit (a unit of measure for capacity officially adopted in the British Imperial System; British units are both dry and wet). Meronyms (parts of firkin):
It is nine gallons of beer, or eight gallons of ale, soap or herrings. In America, the firkin is rarely used, except for butter or lard, and signifies a small vessel or cask of indeterminate size, or of different sizes, regulated by the statutes of the different states. Definitions from Webster's American Dictionary of the English Language, 1828. Previous word: firepan. Next word: firm.