If you decide you don’t want Google knowing where your phone is 24/7, it’s easy to disable location access. Let’s take a look at that now. On an Android phone open the System Settings by using the menu button on your phone from the home screen, or by launching the Settings app from the app drawer. In the settings window scroll down to and tap it. Now there are a few choices: 1  Turn location access off completely. 
Instructions: 1. From your home screen, enter your Settings menu. 2. Scroll down to the “Personal” section. 3. Tap on “Location services” or “Location access” – whichever your phone shows. 4. From this screen, you can toggle on or off any of the location services your phone offers. 5. On most phones, that includes your carrier’s and Google’s location services, plus standalone GPS services
1 Scroll down and tap Location. 2  Scroll down and tap Google Location Settings. 3  Tap Location Reporting and Location History, and switch the slider to off for each one. 4  To delete your phone's location cache, tap Delete Location History at the bottom of the screen under Location History. To disable location reporting or history in Android 1  : Open the App Drawer and go to Settings. 2  Scroll down and tap Location. 3  Scroll down and tap Google Location Settings. 4  Tap Location Reporting and Location History, and switch the slider to off for each one
1 From your device's apps menu, open Google Settings app or the Settings menu. 2  Touch for the account you want to change. 3  Turn Location History on or off for your account or devices: 4  Google Account: Move the top switch to turn Location History on or off for all devices associated with your Google Account. 1 Touch for the account you want to change. 2  Turn Location History on or off for your account or devices: 3
1 Touch Location sharing. 2  To share your precise location, scroll down to where it says Pinpoint Location and touch Edit DONE at the top right. 3  To share your current city location, scroll down to where it says City Location and touch Edit DONE at the top right. 4  Open the Google+ app. 5  Touch the menu icon, then Locations. 1 To share your precise location, scroll down to where it says Pinpoint Location and touch Edit DONE at the top right. 2  To share your current city location, scroll down to where it says City Location and touch Edit DONE at the top right. 3  Open the Google+ app. 4
You can turn off Google's access to your location data, but you can't wipe its history without visiting the database on the web, which we mentioned earlier (and will get back to in a moment.) First though, you have to turn off access to location services on your iPhone or iPad: To disable location reporting or history in Android 1  : Open the App Drawer and go to Settings. 2  Scroll down and tap Location. 3  Scroll down and tap Google Location Settings. 4  Tap Location Reporting and Location History, and switch the slider to off for each one.
You can disable this, and even manually delete certain places from your location history. Here's how. 1. Go to this Google settings page. 2. Click the Pause button in the Places you've been tile on the right. To delete individual entries from location history, click Manage history. (Also see: How to Stop Google From Tracking You on the Web). Android. Turning off location settings on your Android phone is pretty easy, but it can affect the functioning of some useful services. Google Now for example relies on location data to provide you information you need without you even searching for it. 
If you want to turn off this feature and don’t allow Google to collect and store your location data in the future, all you have to do is open the Google Location Reporting settings (also seen in the screenshot above) and disable “Location Reporting” and “Location History” on your Android device. To summarize: This is how you disable location services on Android 5.0+: 1  Go to your Settings. 2  Select “Location”. 3  Flip the switch to the “Off” position. 4  If you just want to save battery, just change the Location Mode to “Battery Saving”. 5  Go to Google Location reporting. 6  Disable Location Reporting and Location History.
If you're an Android user, Google's location services is broken into two features. Location Reporting, and Location History: 1  Location Reporting is the feature that gives apps like Google Now, Google Maps, Foursquare, Twitter, and even your camera app access to your position. To disable location reporting or history in Android 1  : Open the App Drawer and go to Settings. 2  Scroll down and tap Location. 3  Scroll down and tap Google Location Settings. 4  Tap Location Reporting and Location History, and switch the slider to off for each one