Boxing Day in the United Kingdom is the day after Christmas Day and falls on December 26. Traditionally, it was a day when employers distributed money, food, cloth (material) or other valuable goods to their employees. In modern times, it is an important day for sporting events and the start of the post-Christmas sales. 
December 26th, is Boxing Day and is a holiday celebrated in Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and other Commonwealth countries. Boxing Day originated in England in the middle of the nineteenth century under Queen Victoria. In Ireland, Boxing Day is known as St Stephen's Day and is famous for its Wren Boys. Tradition says that to kill a wren is unlucky unless it's on Boxing Day. St Stephen was killed, reportedly stoned to death, for believing in Jesus.
Boxing Day is a secular holiday that is traditionally celebrated on 26 December, the day after Christmas Day. 26 December is also St. Stephen's Day, a religious holiday. In some Canadian provinces, Boxing Day is a statutory holiday that is always celebrated on 26 December. In Canadian provinces where Boxing Day was a statutory holiday, and it falls on a Saturday or Sunday, compensation days are given in the following week.
Today, Boxing Day is the bank holiday that generally takes place on 26 December. In South Africa, Boxing Day was renamed Day of Goodwill in 1994. Due to the Roman Catholic Church's liturgical calendar, the day is known as St. Stephen's Day to Catholics, as well as in Italy, Finland, and Alsace and Moselle in France. In some Canadian provinces, Boxing Day is a statutory holiday that is always celebrated on 26 December. In Canadian provinces where Boxing Day was a statutory holiday, and it falls on a Saturday or Sunday, compensation days are given in the following week.
Boxing Day is so called because it was the custom on that day for tradesmen to collect their Christmas boxes or gifts in return for good and reliable service throughout the year. Boxing Day is also St. Stephen's Day. In Ireland, Boxing Day is known as St Stephen's Day and is famous for its Wren Boys. Tradition says that to kill a wren is unlucky unless it's on Boxing Day. St Stephen was killed, reportedly stoned to death, for believing in Jesus.
In the United Kingdom this was later extended to various workpeople such as labourers, servants, tradespeople and postal workers. Boxing Day is traditionally celebrated on 26 December, St. Stephen's Day, the day after Christmas Day. Unlike St. Stephen's Day, Boxing Day is a secular holiday and is not always on 26 December: the public holiday is generally moved to the following Monday if 26 December is a Saturday. Report Abuse. Boxing Day was traditionally a day on which the servants had a day off from their duties. Because of this the gentry would eat cold cuts and have a buffet-style feast prepared by the servants in advance.
Confidence votes 58. Boxing Day-December 26th-is the feastday of Saint Stephen, and is called St Stephen's Day and is part of the Christian season of Christmas. Boxing Day got that name because it was the tradition for employers to give a Christmas gift to their staff on that day-a Christmas box, as it was called. Boxing day is also part of the Christian/Catholic 12 days of Christmas and is offically classed as the 2nd day of Christmastide. December 26 is called Boxing Day in England and other countries in the Commonwealth, but it is unknown exactly when it first began. Boxing Day seems to have originated in th … e mid nineteenth century in England.
In the Australian state of South Australia, 28 December is a public holiday known as Proclamation Day and Boxing Day is not normally a public holiday. The holiday for Proclamation Day is observed on the first weekday after Christmas Day or the Christmas Day holiday. In some Canadian provinces, Boxing Day is a statutory holiday that is always celebrated on 26 December. In Canadian provinces where Boxing Day was a statutory holiday, and it falls on a Saturday or Sunday, compensation days are given in the following week.
1 A ‘Christmas Box’ in Britain is a name for a Christmas present. 2  Boxing Day was traditionally a day off for servants and the day when they received a ‘Christmas Box’ from the master. 3  The servants would also go home on Boxing Day to give ‘Christmas Boxes’ to their families. All the answers below are valid, so maybe it is one, or even all of them. 1 