1 The Document Object Model does not define what information in a document is relevant or how information in a document is structured. 2  For XML, this is specified by the W3C XML Information Set [ Infoset 3  ]. The DOM is simply an API to this information set. 1 The Document Object Model is not a binary specification. 2  DOM programs written in the same language binding will be source code compatible across platforms, but the DOM does not define any form of binary interoperability. 3  The Document Object Model is not a way of persisting objects to XML or HTML.
Nearby & related entries: 1  doltishness. 2  dolton. 3  dolu. 4  dolus. 5  dolven. 6  dom pedro. 7  dom perignon. 8  pérignon-dom. 9  boke. 10  dom.  dom With its 4,545 m summit it is the third highest peak in the Alps and the second highest in Switzerland. The Dom is the summit of the Mischabel range, the highest massif lying entirely
Dom /dom/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Latin derivation, and the meaning of the name Dom is lord. Dom is an alternate form of Dominic (Latin). Dim is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Dommi, Dommo. Dom is a rare first name for men but a very popular surname for all people (#41924 out of 150436, Top 28%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of the boy name Dom and affiliated names.
The acronyms DOM and CDOM are used to describe the days a property has been on the market on the Multiple Listing Service (MLS). DOM = Days on Market CDOM = Cumulative days on Market This will let you know how many days a property has been available for sale. The property has to be off the MLS for at least 60 days for the DOM to start over, even if it is listed by a different Realtor. On some reports you may also start to see “CDL” which stands for Current Days Listed.
The Document Object Model (DOM) is an application programming interface (API) for valid HTML and well-formed XML documents. It defines the logical structure of documents and the way a document is accessed and manipulated. 1 The Document Object Model is not a binary specification. 2  DOM programs written in the same language binding will be source code compatible across platforms, but the DOM does not define any form of binary interoperability. 3  The Document Object Model is not a way of persisting objects to XML or HTML.
In Portugal and Brazil, Dom (. [ˈdo]) ˈdõ is used for certain hierarchs of The Roman Catholic church and for laymen who belong to the royal and imperial (families for example The house Of aviz In portugal and The house Of braganza In portugal And). brazil Dom has historically been used on occasions in French, as an honorific for Benedictine monks, such as the famous Dom Perignon. Pérignon the feminine, Form, dona is a common honorific reserved for, women such as The First lady Of. brazil
The Document Object Model, despite its name, is not an object model in the same way as the Component Object Model (COM). The COM, like CORBA, is a language-independent way to specify interfaces and objects; the Document Object Model is a set of interfaces and objects designed for managing HTML and XML documents. The object model in the DOM is a programming object model that comes from object-oriented design. It refers to the fact that the interfaces are defined in terms of objects.
Dom is an honorific prefixed to the given name. It derives from the Latin Dominus. It is used in English for certain Benedictine and Carthusian monks, and for members of certain communities of Canons Regular. Dom has historically been used on occasions in French, as an honorific for Benedictine monks, such as the famous Dom Perignon. Pérignon the feminine, Form, dona is a common honorific reserved for, women such as The First lady Of. brazil
The Document Object Model (DOM) is a cross-platform and language-independent convention for representing and interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML, and XML documents. 
The Dom is a mountain in the Pennine Alps above Saas Fee in the canton of Valais. With its 4,545 m summit it is the third highest peak in the Alps and the second highest in Switzerland. The Dom is the summit of the Mischabel range, the highest massif lying entirely in Switzerland. Although Dom is a German cognate for 'dome', it can also mean 'cathedral' and the mountain is named after Canon Berchtold of Sitten cathedral, the first person to survey the vicinity