drogan76 -. ovum life span is 48 hour, but remember your have two ovum factory if their had be release at not same time it longer..sperm life span is 4 days.. 
The fertilizable life of the human oocyte varies in the range between 12 and 24 hours. However, immature human eggs recovered for in vitro fertilization can be fertilized even after 36 hours. Fertilizable lifespan of human sperm is estimated to be around 48 to 72 hours. 
The follicle that released the egg becomes known as the corpus luteum after ovulation and begins to secrete the heat inducing hormone, progesterone. The lifespan of the egg after ovulation is just 12-24 hours, maybe even less. Fertilization must take place within this timeframe. After this timeframe, the egg begins to degenerate and is no longer capable of being fertilized. 
Ovum: An egg in the ovary of the female. This egg is called the female gamete or sex cell. It combines with the male gamete, called a sperm, to form a zygote. This formation … process is called fertilization.. 1 One type of miscarriage occurs when the egg does not develop into an embryo following th…. 2  The Ovum: Its Definition and Role in Infertility The basic definition of ovum is a common topic in elementary school biology. 3  Learning about the definition of the oveum and its role in fertility is not hard.
24 hours is the usual life span of the ovum. That's why it is important to have intercourse in the days just before you ovulate. Sperm should be waiting inside the fallopian tube when the egg is released to increase the odds of getting pregnant. The days just before ovulation are your most fertile days to conceive. 
· just now. Report Abuse. The average life span of ova, egg cell is 12 to 24 hours. In case pregnancy does not occur the rate of production of estrogen and progesterone fall 10 to 14 days after ovulation as the corpus luteum dies, and the endometrium is shed from the body during the menstrual period. Muthu S · 4 years ago. Thumbs up.
The egg cell, or ovum, is the female reproductive cell (gamete) in oogamous organisms. The egg cell is typically not capable of active movement, and it is much larger (visible to the naked eye) than the motile sperm cells. When egg and sperm fuse, a diploid cell (the zygote) is formed, which gradually grows into a new organism.
Best Answer: Sperm are thought to retain fertilizing capability for up to 48 hours once they have entered the female genital tract, but it's possible their lifespan is even longer. Sperm production by the testicle takes about 90 days; the immature sperm are then deposited in a receptacle called the epididymis. 
The ovum's lifespan is 24 hours! The female sex cell is called egg (ovum, plural: ova). Eggs are produced in the female sex glands (ovaries), and they are the largest cells in the human body. They are visible to the naked eye, being about the size of the dot at the end of this sentence. The contrast in volume between egg and sperm is immense. The average life span of ova, egg cell is 12 to 24 hours. In case pregnancy does not occur the rate of production of estrogen and progesterone fall 10 to 14 days after ovulation as the corpus luteum dies, and the endometrium is shed from the body during the menstrual period. Muthu S · 4 years ago. Thumbs up.
Some sources say that women are born with all the egg cells they're going to get. Some sources say that an egg cell only lives as long as ovulation. Some sources say that every cell in your body dies, and the longest lifespan of any cell is 7 years.