The name Robin is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Robin is: Bright fame. English Meaning: The name Robin is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Robin is: Famed; bright; shining. The name Robin is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Robin is: Famed, bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys' name since the Middle Ages. Famous Bearers: Scottish national hero Robert the Bruce and novelist Robert Ludlum. American Meaning: The name Robin is an Americ
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Robin and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Robin and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Robin is fascinating, learn more about it. If you consider naming your baby Robin we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The name Robyn, meaning “Bright Fame” originates from England and is the diminutive form of the name Robert. A unisex name, it is common for both male and female, although it is typically more common for females than males in the US. According to several sources, the name also means “Of the Birds”, or “Robin”. Report Abuse. The name Robin and the alternative spelling Robyn (they are both boys' and girls' names) comes from the name Robert. Robert means bright fame.. Robert is derived from the German word elements hrod (fame) and beraht (bright).
Look up Robin in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Robin was originally a diminutive given name of Robert, derived from the prefix Rob - (hrod, Old Germanic, meaning fame), and the suffix-in (Old French diminutive). More recently, it is used as an independent name. The name Robin is a masculine given name, feminine given name, and a surname. In Europe, although it is sometimes regarded as a female name, it is generally given to males
German Meaning: The name Robin is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Robin is: Famed, bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys' name since the Middle Ages. Famous Bearers: Scottish national hero Robert the Bruce and novelist Robert Ludlum. American Meaning: The name Robin is an American baby name.
Robin is a form of the name Robert. Variants of the name Robin include Robbin, Robee, Robina, Robinetta, Robyn, Robynn, Robynne. The name Roban is a form of Robin. Robin falls into the bird name category. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.
Robin /ro-bin/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Robin) is pronounced RAH-bin. It is of Old English and Old German origin, and the meaning of Robin is bright fame. Nickname for boys named Robert. Now commonly used for girls, probably with the red-breasted songbird in mind. See also Roberta. Robin is a very popular first name for females (#100 out of 4276, Top 2%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#6024 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Robin for girls
[ 2 syll. ro-bin, rob-in ] The baby boy name Robin is also used, and more frequently so, as a girl name. Its pronunciation is R AA-BihN †. Robin is used chiefly in the English, French, and Romanian languages, and its origin is Germanic. Robin is a diminutive form of Robert. See also the related form, Robyn (English). Robin is uncommon as a baby name for boys. At the height of its usage in 1956, 0.104% of baby boys were given the name Robin. It ranked at #143 then.
Robin is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-bin. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1125 in baby name popularity for girls with 223 occurrences. It ranked 1050 in popular baby names for boys with 188 occurrences. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws.