1 Wash your hands and the area thoroughly, then make a small hole and gently squeeze out the clear fluid. 2  If the fluid is white or yellow, the blister may be infected and needs medical attention. 3  Do not remove the skin over a broken blister. 1 If the fluid is white or yellow, the blister may be infected and needs medical attention. 2  Do not remove the skin over a broken blister. 3  The new skin underneath needs this protective cover.
I would avoid popping the blister as long as possible. Of course, it will eventually pop on its own anyway but, while it is intact, it is providing a layer of protection to the damage skin underneath and it is preventing contamination of the burn with bacteria. When the blister does pop, leave the loose skin in place and cover the area with antimicrobial cream and a bandage to keep it protected from infection. Also you may want to go see your primary care doctor about this burn. Sometimes burns on the hands can be very severe
Most blisters caused by friction or minor burns do not require a doctor's care. New skin will form underneath the affected area and the fluid is simply absorbed. Do not puncture a blister unless it is large, painful, or likely to be further irritated. The fluid-filled blister keeps the underlying skin clean, which prevents infection and promotes healing. But if you need to pop a blister: 1 If the fluid is white or yellow, the blister may be infected and needs medical attention. 2  Do not remove the skin over a broken blister. 3  The new skin underneath needs this protective cover.
Best Answer: No but a blister is there to protect the delicate injured tissue underneath. Once you pop a blister it will hurt a lot and is open to infection. Better to stick a bandage on the blister so it can heal naturally. Source(s): bramblerock · 6 years ago. 
It is not a good idea to pop a blister since it can cause an infection. It is best to treat the area with an antibiotic ointment … then cover it with a loose bandage and let it heal naturally. 5 people found this useful. 1  The Most Effective Blister Band Aids Blisters are actually a type of injury. Unless you really need to pop it then pop it with a steroile needle carefully and then let it all drain out and put on a bandage and hange the bandages regulary, make sure you check for any signs of redness around the blister and any signs of an infection coming through.
3. Do not pop blisters from a sunburn or other burn. If you have sunburn blisters, this is a second-degree burn and is severe enough that you should see a doctor. Do not pop sunburn blisters – they are protecting the skin underneath as it regenerates after the burn. Blisters are generally caused by friction against the skin, allowing a fluid build-up under the section of skin being rubbed. Many doctors and dermatologists wanting to prevent scarring and infection will recommend that you do not pop your blister, but if you really want to pop it, follow these steps to do it safely.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Chrisnnebraska. Confidence votes 1.4K. It may or may not hurt to pop a water blister. It is not a good idea to pop a blister since it can cause an infection. It is best to treat the area with an antibiotic ointment then cover it with a loose bandage and let it heal naturally. 
The tissue under a blister is sensitive and, like most open wounds, is vulnerable to bacteria and viruses. If you open or drain a burn blister, you could slow the healing process, cause harmful scarring or invite infection. Besides not popping blisters, there's more you can do to help recovery and prevent infection. First, it's important to understand the three types of burns: mild (first-degree burn), moderate (second-degree) and severe (third-degree).