ISSR (for inter-simple sequence repeat) is a general term for a genome region between microsatellite loci. The complementary sequences to two neighboring microsatellites are used as PCR primers; the variable region between them gets amplified. Evolutionary changes from replication slippage also occur in simpler organisms. For example, microsatellite length changes are common within surface membrane proteins in yeast, providing rapid evolution in cell properties. Specifically, length changes in the FLO1 gene control the level of adhesion to substrates.
Microsatellite genotyping is the genotyping of tandem repeats such as Short Tandem Repeats (STRs) or Variable Nucleotide Tandem Repeats (VNTRs). STRs and VNTRs are polymorphic DNA loci present throughout the genome. Microsatellite genotyping is a widely accepted tool for a variety of applications such as linkage mapping studies, association studies, and identification of organisms. Applied Biosystems' five-dye chemistry increases the number of microsatellite markers that can be run in a single capillary, for improved throughput. Figure 1 is an example of 18 microsatellite loci co-electrophoresed in a single capillary.
Microsatellites are di-, tri-, or tetra nucleotide tandem repeats in DNA sequences. The number of repeats is variable in populations of DNA and within the alleles of an individual. The sequence below has a 20 dinucleotide repeat (40bp) stretch of CA that is shown in bold. CGTTCAATAAGCAAAAATCCATAGTTTTAGGAATGTGGGCT. When features are close together on a chromosome there is a higher likelihood that they will be inherited together and familial recombination events will not have interfered. The likelihood that features will be inherited together is measured as a log of odds ratio (LOD) e.g. 100:1 or a LOD of 2.
Genotyping PCR reactions. This PCR protocol is for genotyping microsatellite loci. Reactions are typically set up for a 96 well plate for genotyping on the 377. Primers can be multiplexed (multiple primers in a given reaction)
Random microsatellite primers can be developed by cloning random segments of DNA from the focal species. These random segments are inserted into a plasmid or bacteriophage vector, which is in turn implanted into Escherichia coli bacteria. Evolutionary changes from replication slippage also occur in simpler organisms. For example, microsatellite length changes are common within surface membrane proteins in yeast, providing rapid evolution in cell properties. Specifically, length changes in the FLO1 gene control the level of adhesion to substrates.
A microsatellite is a tract of repetitive DNA in which certain DNA motifs (ranging in length from 2–5 base pairs) are repeated, typically 5-50 times. Evolutionary changes from replication slippage also occur in simpler organisms. For example, microsatellite length changes are common within surface membrane proteins in yeast, providing rapid evolution in cell properties. Specifically, length changes in the FLO1 gene control the level of adhesion to substrates.
Microsatellite genotyping projects can take months or just a few days. The big projects get scheduled into a vacant spot in our calendar and small projects are often combined together so that we continue to offer the best value for money to all our customers. When features are close together on a chromosome there is a higher likelihood that they will be inherited together and familial recombination events will not have interfered. The likelihood that features will be inherited together is measured as a log of odds ratio (LOD) e.g. 100:1 or a LOD of 2.
SNP genotyping is the measurement of genetic variations of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) between members of a species. It is a form of genotyping, which is the measurement of more general genetic variation. Taq DNA polymerase’s 5’-nuclease activity is used in the TaqMan assay for SNP genotyping. The TaqMan assay is performed concurrently with a PCR reaction and the results can be read in real-time as the PCR reaction proceeds (McGuigan & Ralston 2002).