The ischiocavernosus muscle is a muscle just below the surface of the perineum, present in both men and women. 
n. A muscle with origin from the ramus of the ischium, with insertion into the corpus cavernosum of the penis or of the clitoris, with nerve supply from the perineal nerve, and whose action compresses the crus of the penis or of the clitoris and forces blood in its sinuses into the distal part of the corpus cavernosum. 
Ischiocavernosus muscle is a muscle of perineum that lies just below the perineal surface and is found in both males and females. In females, the muscle is related to a much smaller crus clitoris, and has a correspondingly smaller attachment to the ischiopubic ramus. Other than the size, the muscle is similar in characters to the male muscle.
FREE subscriptions for doctors and students... click hereYou have 3 open access pages. Ischiocavernosus is a bilateral perineal muscle in both males and females. In males, it arises from the medial aspect of the ischial tuberosity and more anteriorly, from the ischial ramus. It inserts into the aponeurosis over the medial and lateral sides of the crus penis. It action is to facilitate the maintainance of an erection. In females, ischiocavernosus has a similar origin but it inserts into the crura of the clitoris. Its function is similar: to retard venous return so erecting the clitoris. Ischiocavernosus is innervated by the perineal branch of the pudendal nerve (S2-4).
Origin and Insertion: In males, the ischiocavernosus covers the crus penis and is attached to the ischial tuberosity and ischial ramus of respective side by both muscular and tendinous fibers. These fibers then form an aponeurosis that is attached to the sides and under-surface of crus penis. In females, the muscle is related to a much smaller crus clitoris, and has a correspondingly smaller attachment to the ischiopubic ramus. Other than the size, the muscle is similar in characters to the male muscle.
The ischiocavernosus muscle is innervated by the deep (muscular) branch of the perineal nerve, which in turn is a branch of the pudendal nerve. In females, the muscle is related to a much smaller crus clitoris, and has a correspondingly smaller attachment to the ischiopubic ramus. Other than the size, the muscle is similar in characters to the male muscle.
Bulbospongiosus (bulbocavernosus in older texts) is one of the superficial muscles of the perineum. It has a slightly different origin, insertion and function in males and females. In males, it covers the bulb of the penis. In females, it covers the vestibular bulb. The bulbospongiosus is located in the middle line of the perineum, in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical parts, united along the median line by a tendinous raphe. raphé
1 Bulbospongiosus muscle-Runs from the clitoris to the central tendon of the perineum. 2  Ischiocavernosus muscle-Runs from the pubis to the central tendon of the perineum. 3  Superficial transverse perineal muscle-Is stretched between the two ischia (sit bones). 4  it converges in the center at the central tendon. 1 Corpus cavernosum-This column of erectile tissue is one of two that lie side by side along the penis. 2  corpus spongiosum-This spongy, erectile tissue surrounds the urethra and widens to form the glans of the penis (along the penile head).
Medical Definition of ISCHIOCAVERNOSUS. : a muscle on each side that arises from the ischium near the crus of the penis or clitoris and is inserted on the crus near the pubic symphysis. What made you want to look up ischiocavernosus?