Experience the best of both worlds at the Sabi Sabi Game Reserve by spending 2 nights at the Little ... More. Sabi Sabi Luxury Safari Lodges rest in the game rich Sabi Sand Private Game Reserve nestles adjacent to the world-renowned Kruger National Park in South Africa. The Sabi Sabi Earth Lodge is a luxurious sanctuary sculpted into a slope of the earth, almost invisible in the landscape. This extraordinary Lodge in the Sabi Sabi Private Game Reserve, South Africa, uses texture, light and space to present a lodge like no other.
The Sabi Sands Game Reserve is a 65,000 hectare reserve, pioneered by local landowners in the 1950s, and shares a border with the world-renowned Kruger National Park. Within the Sabi Sands, Sabi Sabi has created three unique worlds through its four first-class camps: one of yesterday's colonial romance; today's classic bush experience; and tomorrow's African renaissance.
Our luxury game lodges lie within the 65,000 hectare Sabi Sand Reserve, which is located in the southern section of the Kruger National Park, a wildlife paradise; here you can still observe at close quarters the Big 5 and hundreds of other species of African animals and birds. 
Sabi Sabi Private Reserve is located to the West of the legendary Kruger National Park in the Sabi Sands Game Reserve, a place that plays host to the greatest diversity of wildlife in the world. Renowned for its predator population the Sabi Sands Reserve guarantees a wildlife experience beyond compare during a safari in South Africa. Game drives are taken in open-top Landrovers offering panoramic views of the bush and the animals.
Characteristics of the wabi-sabi aesthetic include asymmetry, asperity (roughness or irregularity), simplicity, economy, austerity, modesty, intimacy, and appreciation of the ingenuous integrity of natural objects and processes. Wabi-sabi tea bowl, Azuchi-Momoyama period, 16th century. Wabi-sabi (侘寂) represents a comprehensive Japanese world view or aesthetic centered on the acceptance of transience and imperfection. The aesthetic is sometimes described as one of beauty that is imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete.
premier Camp | Sabi Sand Reserve, South Africa. to be the first to review Sabi Sabi Earth Lodge. Earth Lodge at Sabi Sabi is a luxury safari lodge that redefines natural elegance in the midst of one of Africa’s most prolific wildlife areas. Sculpted into a slope of the earth, almost invisible in the landscape, the lodge uses texture, light and space to create a unique and captivating aesthetic
Sabi Sabi Luxury Safari Lodges. Deep in the African bushveld, within South Africa’s famous Sabi Sand Reserve, ‘something enchanting lies in wait’ – the Sabi Sabi Private Game Reserve.
(5.00). For decades, Sabi Sabi Bush Lodge has been famed for its warm ambience and legendary hospitality. Sabi Sabi Bush Lodge embodies all the attributes of a luxury lodge, with requisite attention to detail and service, yet is full of unique character and truly distinctive. Traditionally African in its decor, each of the 25 suites looks out onto sweeping views across the bushveld.
For further information on an unforgettable South African safari, contact Sabi Sabi today. You’ll soon find out why we’re continuously voted one of the best private game reserves in South Africa and the world. Deep in the African bushveld, within South Africa’s famous Sabi Sand Reserve, ‘something enchanting lies in wait’ – the Sabi Sabi Private Game Reserve.
Sabi Sabi Private Game Reserve comprises of four luxury game lodges ranging from the extravagant Earth Lodge with its private butlers and wellness spa to the colonial styled Selati Lodge and the authentically African decorated Sabi Sabi Bush Lodge. Renowned for its predator population the Sabi Sands Reserve guarantees a wildlife experience beyond compare during a safari in South Africa. Game drives are taken in open-top Landrovers offering panoramic views of the bush and the animals.