The sun is mostly composed of the elements hydrogen (H) and helium (He). By mass the composition of the sun is 75 percent hydrogen and 25 percent helium. Various metals make up less than 0.1 percent of the mass of the sun. The temperature of the sun’s surface is about 10,340 degrees Fahrenheit (5,726 degrees Celsius). 
The sun is made of Ionized gases mostly Hydrogen and about 25% helium. Light comes from the thermonuclear fusion that is achieved at the high temperatures in the core of the s … tar, at about 18 million degrees kelvin. The Sun is made of plasma, almost entirely hydrogen and helium. Plasma is superheated matter that is so hot that the elements have lost some or all of their electrons, it is beyond a gaseous state.
The Sun is a huge, glowing sphere of hot gas. Most of this gas is hydrogen (about 70%) and helium (about 28%). Carbon, nitrogen and oxygen make up 1.5% and the other 0.5% is made up of small amounts of many other elements such as neon, iron, silicon, magnesium and sulfur. 
The Sun is a star. Like all other star, it is composed of burning gases such as hydrogen and helium. Gravity then pulls together the burning gases of the Sun and stars. Large amounts of energy are produced by the Sun and the stars mainly due to the burning gases inside them. 
Most of the gas — about 72 percent — is hydrogen. Nuclear fusion converts hydrogen into other elements. The sun is also composed of about 26 percent helium and trace amounts of other elements — oxygen, carbon, neon, nitrogen, magnesium, iron and silicon. These elements are created in the sun's core, which makes up 25 percent of the sun. Gravitational forces create tremendous pressure and temperatures in the core. The temperature of the sun in this layer is about 27 million degrees F (15 million degrees C).
Hydrogen is the predominant element of the Sun, accounting for some 74% of its mass, and 92% of its volume. Helium accounts for 24% of its mass but only 7% of its volume. Traces of oxygen, iron, silicon, sulphur, carbon, neon, nickel, magnesium, calcium and chromium make up the missing percentage. The most abundant metals are oxygen (roughly 1% of the Sun's mass), carbon (0.3%), neon (0.2%), and iron (0.2%). The Sun is made of plasma, almost entirely hydrogen and helium. Plasma is superheated matter that is so hot that the elements have lost some or all of their electrons, it is beyond a gaseous state.
The sun doesn't contain any minerals at all-it's too hot for big molecules to stay together. The sun is made up of two main elements, hydrogen and helium. Hydrogen makes up about 92% of all of the atoms in the sun while helium makes up about 7.8%. Oxygen, carbon, neon and nitrogen make up most of the remaining 0.2%. Author:
These pie charts show what the Sun is made of. The top one shows the proportions of hydrogen and helium. The amount of other elements, such as oxygen, magnesium and iron, is very, very small (less than 0.1%). The second pie chart shows how much of each element there is making up that tiny 0.1%. 
The Sun is a big ball of gas and plasma. Most of the gas is hydrogen or helium, but there are also small amounts of other elements such as oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, magnesium and iron. There’s lots to discover on Sun|trek, so dive in and. start exploring here. We can’t do your home work for you, but if you have a question about the Sun you can always.