Symptoms. Ulnar neuropathy, also known as cubital tunnel syndrome, puts pressure on the ulnar nerve each time the elbow is bent, reducing the supply of blood to the nerve. This causes damage to the nerve over time. About this Condition. Ulnar neuropathy, also known as cubital tunnel syndrome, puts pressure on the ulnar nerve each time the elbow is bent, reducing the supply of blood to the nerve.
The elbow is the most common site of ulnar nerve compression (Verheyden). Ulnar neuropathy at the wrist is less common. The ulnar nerve must travel through a groove and tunnel at the elbow and a canal in the wrist, which are potential sites for entrapment and irritation. In the wrist, ulnar neuropathy leads to some loss of sensation and a decrease in grip and pinch strength. The muscle in the palm along the ulnar hand (hypothenar eminence) and the intrinsic muscles of the hand may be atrophied. With permanent loss, the fingers may be held like a claw (claw hand).
Ulnar Neuropathy: Introduction. A condition where the ulnar nerve which runs down the length of the arm becomes trapped. The most common site for entrapment is the elbow and then the wrist. Nerve entrapment can result when the nerve becomes inflamed due to repetitive stress on the nerve such as can occur in cyclists or typists. A broken elbow or fracture can also put pressure on the nerve.
Ulnar neuropathy is a disorder involving the ulnar nerve. Ulnar neuropathy may be caused by entrapment of the ulnar nerve at the elbow or wrist with resultant numbness and tingling into the fourth and fifth fingers. Motor function can be assessed by testing for a positive Froment's sign, or making an OK sign (which the patient will be unable to do). Indeed, the elbow is probably the most common site of pain in an ulnar neuropathy. Occasionally, patients specifically say “I have pain in my elbow,” “I have pain in my funny bone,” or even “I have pain in this little groove in my elbow,” but usually they are not quite so explicit unless prompted.
The most common site of ulnar nerve entrapment is at or near the elbow region, especially in the region of the cubital tunnel or in the epicondylar (ulnar) groove; the second most likely site is at or near the wrist, especially in the area of the anatomic structure called the canal of Guyon. Upon entering the cubital tunnel, the ulnar nerve gives off an articular branch to the elbow. It then passes between the humeral and ulnar heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris and descends into the forearm between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor digitorum profundus.
Ulnar nerve neuropathy due to ulnar nerve entrapment is often a painful disorder of the outer side of the arm and hand near the little finger, caused by pressure on the ulnar nerve in your arm. The ulnar nerve transmits electrical signals to muscles in the forearm and hand. The nerve is responsible for sensation in the fourth and fifth fingers of the hand, the palm, and the underside of the forearm. Ulnar neuropathy can also be called: 1  Bicycler's neuropathy.
Ulnar Neuropathy of the Elbow. Ulnar neuropathy of the elbow is a condition that causes irritation of the ulnar nerve at the elbow. The ulnar nerve is one of the three main nerves going to the muscles of the forearm and the hand, and supplying feeling to part of the hand. Other conditions may mimic the symptoms of ulnar neuropathy of the elbow. Compression of the ulnar nerve anywhere along its course from spinal cord to hand, including in the axilla (arm-pit), neck or wrist, can cause similar symptoms.
Ulnar neuropathy at the elbow is the second most common form of nerve irritation from a trapped or compressed nerve, after carpal tunnel syndrome. People with the condition normally have tingling of the fourth and fifth finger at night, pain at the elbow, and altered sensation on prolonged bending of the elbow. Diagnosis is based on signs, symptoms, and nerve conduction studies. The treatment of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow can be conservative (splint devices, physical therapy, rehabilitation) or surgical.
1 Ulnar Neuropathy: Condition of entrapment of the ulnar nerve at the elbow, causing neurological symptoms in the corresponding parts of the forearm, hand and fingers. 