Calcitonin lowers blood calcium levels by suppressing osteoclast activity in the bones and increasing the amount of calcium excreted in the urine. The hormone also prevents the absorption of calcium from the intestine, as well as increasing the calcium absorbed by the kidney.
This hormonal form of vitamin D is produced by the kidneys in response to stimulation by the parathyroid hormone. Calcitriol (1,25(OH)2 D) increases calcium absorption from the intestine and limits calcium excretion when blood calcium levels are low.
Calcitonin is a hormone that is produced in humans by the parafollicular cells (commonly known as C-cells) of the thyroid gland. Calcitonin is involved in helping to regulate levels of calcium and phosphate in the blood, opposing the action of parathyroid hormone.
Calcitonin, which is produced by your thyroid gland, serves to lower blood calcium levels. It counters the actions of parathyroid hormone. Calcitonin inhibits osteoclast function, slowing the breakdown of bone.
The hormone also stimulates kidney production of the active form of vitamin D, which triggers increased calcium absorption from the gut. Low levels of PTH -- due to autoimmune disease or another cause -- can lead to abnormally low blood calcium.
Calcitonin An increase in blood calcium stimulates calcitonin, a hormone synthesized in the thyroid gland. This hormone lowers blood calcium by inhibiting bone resorption. Calcitonin's physiological function as a regulator of blood calcium levels is relatively minor compared to the actions of PTH and calcitriol.
1. calcitonin-thyroid hormone that tends to lower the level of calcium in the blood plasma and inhibit resorption of bone. thyrocalcitonin. thyroid hormone-any of several closely related compounds that are produced by the thyroid gland and are active metabolically.
Calcitonin reduces calcium levels in the blood by two main mechanisms: 1  It inhibits the activity of osteoclasts, which are the cells responsible for breaking down bone. 2  It can also decrease the resorption of calcium in the kidneys, again leading to lower blood calcium levels.
Calcitonin is a hormone secreted by the thyroid gland that reduces the concentration of blood calcium level when it has risen to an above normal level. This polypeptide hormone is made up of 32 amino acids and is produced mainly by the parafollicular cells (also known as C cells) of the thyroid gland.