Amount: $8,000 over four years ($2,000 per year). All Auburn Scholarships are awarded among eligible incoming freshmen who complete the scholarship application through AUSOM by midnight CST on February 10. 1  Students must have a minimum 26 ACT or 1170 SAT score 2  *. a 3.5 high school GPA.
Army ROTC Scholarships. Whether you're a college-bound high school student or already attending a college or university, Army ROTC has scholarships available. Scholarships are awarded based on a student's merit and grades, not financial need. Army ROTC scholarships consist of: 1  Two-, three-, and four-year scholarship options based on the time remaining to complete your degree. 2  Full-tuition scholarships. 3  The option for room and board in place of tuition, if you should qualify. 
Scholarship Program Participants: All scholarship students will be required to serve in the military for a period of eight years. This obligation may be fulfilled by serving four years on active duty, followed by four years service in the Inactive Ready Reserve (IRR). If you are planning on attending a four-year college and are interested in receiving a tuition scholarship along with some of the best leadership training available, Army ROTC may be right for you.
Must be an Alabama resident; have a minimum 31 ACT or 1360 SAT score and a 3.5 high school GPA; and be enrolled in civil engineering, mechanical engineering, or building science. Awarded at $20,000 over four years ($5,000 per year). Must meet the criteria for another Elite Scholarship. All Auburn Scholarships are awarded among eligible incoming freshmen who complete the scholarship application through AUSOM by midnight CST on February 10. 1  Students must have a minimum 26 ACT or 1170 SAT score 2  *. a 3.5 high school GPA.
Some of the eligibility requirements for Army ROTC scholarships are: 1  Be a U.S. citizen. 2  Be between the ages of 17 and 26. 3  Have a high school GPA of at least 2.50. 4  Have a high school diploma or equivalent. 5  Score a minimum of 920 on the SAT or 19 on the ACT. The eligibility requirements and the application process are the same regardless of which branch a student is interested in. The scholarships offered and eligibility requirements are comparable to those of Army ROTC, but slightly higher SAT and ACT test scores are needed.
4-YEAR SCHOLARSHIP (MARINE OPTION). Application eligibility for the NROTC scholarship Marine Option program are the same as Navy 4-year EXCEPT the minimum SAT test scores are 1100 composite or the minimum ACT test scores are 45 for the English and math portion. Selected applicants for the NROTC scholarship program are awarded scholarships through a highly competitive national selection process. The recipient will be commissioned a naval officer upon graduation and is obligated to a minimum of 5 years active duty in the U.S. Naval Service.
To be eligible for scholarship consideration, you must achieve an SAT composite of 1180 (math and critical reading portions only) or ACT composite of 26 and attain a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher. There are no waivers or exceptions to this. You must meet certain requirements to be eligible for an Air Force ROTC scholarship. Feel free to contact us if you have any questions about Air Force ROTC or the application process.
Non-Scholarship Program Participants: Non-Scholarship graduates may serve three years on active duty and five years in the Inactive Ready Reserve (IRR). Army ROTC Scholarship Program. Whether you’re a college-bound high school student or already attending a college or university, Army ROTC has scholarships available. Scholarships are awarded based on a student’s merit and grades, not financial need. If you are planning on attending a four-year college and are interested in receiving a tuition scholarship along with some of the best leadership training available, Army ROTC may be right for you.