In aviation, pressure altitude is the indicated altitude when an altimeter is set to an agreed baseline pressure setting under certain circumstances where the aircraft's altimeter would be unable to give a useful readout of altitude. Aircraft transponders report the pressure altitude; corrections for atmospheric pressure variations are applied on the ground. The relationship between static pressure and pressure altitude is defined in terms of the properties of the International Standard Atmosphere.
We use Density altitude to calculate aircraft performance. Pressure altitude is the altitude read from the instrument when set to a barometric setting Ex: 29.92 in / 1013.25mb. This altitude is a reference for altitude assignements of aircarft flying in this region.
So we can see by the formula that density altitude will equal pressure altitude when the actual temperature is in fact the standard temperature for a given elevation or cruising altitude. What is the standard temperature for an airport with an elevation of 4000’? The answer is this: 4 ´ 2 = 8 and 15 – 8 = 7, or 7° C. We know that standard pressure—the pressure most likely to be encountered—is 29.92”Hg (inches of mercury) at sea level. We also know that the pressure of the air normally decreases 1”Hg with an 1000’ increase in altitude.
Pressure altitude is defined as the altitude above or below the standard 29.92″ Hg standard datum plane. On a standard day the pressure at sea level would be 29.92″ hg. How do we calculate density altitude? The simplest way is to dial your altimeter to 29.92 and note the indicated altitude, this is your pressure altitude. You can also get a ballpark pressure reading with your altimeter by dialing in your field altitude and taking note of the reading in your pressure window.
Standard pressure, the baseline used universally, is 1013.25 hPa, equivalent to 1013.25 mbar or 29.92 inHg (inches of mercury). This setting is equivalent to the air pressure at mean sea level (MSL) in the International Standard Atmosphere (ISA). Aircraft transponders report the pressure altitude; corrections for atmospheric pressure variations are applied on the ground. The relationship between static pressure and pressure altitude is defined in terms of the properties of the International Standard Atmosphere.
Pressure altitude is the altitude that the altimeter reads if the altimeter is set to the standard sea level pressure value of 29.92. It is not corrected for local pressure variations. Pressure altitude is more of a theoretical value – it only exists in reality on a day with standard atmospheric conditions and a standard lapse rate (29.92″, 15C and -2 deg C per 1000 feet). Obviously, the lapse rate isn’t that uniform, and the surface temperature and pressure change as well.
Report Abuse. Without making it extremely complex-Pressure altitude is a measure of the difference between a given altimeter setting, and Sea level pressure (29.92Hg) Density altitude is the same thing, but calculated for a non-standard temperature. Pressure altitude is the altitude read from the instrument when set to a barometric setting Ex: 29.92 in / 1013.25mb. This altitude is a reference for altitude assignements of aircarft flying in this region.
up vote 7 down vote favorite. I know that pressure altitude for a certain pressure is defined to be the altitude in the standard atmosphere which has that pressure. But I can't find whatever standard, regulation, or glossary officially defines it to be so. More widely, this is also the PRESSURE ALTITUDE, which is alternatively defined as the height of any level in the international standard atmosphere (ISA-see above), above the level corresponding to a pressure of 1013.2 hPa.
Pressure altitude is the height above a standard datum plane (SDP), which is a theoretical level where the weight of the atmosphere is 29.92 Hg (1,013.2 mb) as measured by a barometer. An altimeter is essentially a sensitive barometer calibrated to indicate altitude in the standard atmosphere. If the altimeter is set for 29.92 Hg SDP, the altitude indicated is the pressure altitude. As atmospheric pressure changes, the SDP may be below, at, or above sea level. More widely, this is also the PRESSURE ALTITUDE, which is alternatively defined as the height of any level in the international standard atmosphere (ISA-see above), above the level corresponding to a pressure of 1013.2 hPa.
1 Pressure altitude is used to indicate flight level which is the standard for altitude reporting in the U.S. in Class A airspace (above roughly 18,000 feet). 2  Pressure altitude and indicated altitude are the same when the altimeter setting is 29.92 Hg or 1013.25 millibars. As a general definition, altitude is a distance measurement, usually in the vertical or up direction, between a reference datum and a point or object. The reference datum also often varies according to the context.