District of Columbia, federal district (2000 pop. 572,059, a 5.7% decrease in population since the 1990 census), 69 sq mi (179 sq km), on the east bank of the Potomac River, coextensive with the city of Washington, D.C. (the capital of the United States). 
The District of Columbia is the US federal district containing Washington, DC, the national capital. It is located on the Potomac River between Maryland and Virginia, about 25 … miles west of Chesapeake Bay and 30 miles SW of Baltimore, Maryland. 5 people found this useful. Confidence votes 212K. It is a federal district, distinct from any US state, that houses the government of the US. It is located about 25 miles west of upper Chesapeake Bay and SW of Baltimore, MD.
a federal district in the USA, set aside in 1791 from the territory of the state of Maryland for the future capital of the USA—the city of Washington. Area, 200 sq km; population, 757,000 (1970). The district is located on the left bank of the Potomac River, between the states of Virginia and Maryland. Since 1878 the district’s borders have also been the municipal borders of the city of Washington. Washington, D.C.,capital of the United States, coextensive (since 1878, when Georgetown became a part of Washington) with the District of Columbia (2000 pop. 572,059), on the Potomac River; inc. 1802. The city is the center of a metropolitan area (1990 pop.....
Washington, D.C., is located in the mid-Atlantic region of the U.S. East Coast. Due to the District of Columbia retrocession, the city has a total area of 68.3 square miles (177 km 2), of which 61.4 square miles (159 km 2) is land and 6.9 square miles (18 km 2) (10.16%) is water. The centers of all three branches of the federal government of the United States are in the District, including the Congress, President, and Supreme Court. Washington is home to many national monuments and museums, which are primarily situated on or around the National Mall.
The noun DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA has 1 sense: 1. the district occupied entirely by the city of Washington; chosen by George Washington as the site of the nation's capital and created out of land ceded by Maryland and Virginia. Familiarity information: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. 
The district encompasses about 68.3 square miles along the Potomac River and in 2012 had a population of about 632,000 residents. It is represented by a single non-voting delegate in Congress but has 3 electoral votes in Presidential elections. Confidence votes 212K. It is a federal district, distinct from any US state, that houses the government of the US. It is located about 25 miles west of upper Chesapeake Bay and SW of Baltimore, MD.
Washington, D.C. , formally the District of Columbia and commonly referred to as  Washington ,  the District , or simply  D.C. , is the capital of the United States. The centers of all three branches of the federal government of the United States are in the District, including the Congress, President, and Supreme Court. Washington is home to many national monuments and museums, which are primarily situated on or around the National Mall.
© Jeffrey Coolidge. The District of Columbia is not a state, it is a federal district. When the Constitution of the United States was adopted in 1787, what is now the District of Columbia was a part of the state of Maryland. In 1791, the District was ceded to the federal government for the purpose of becoming the nation's capital, a district that was to be governed by Congress
The District of Columbia is not located within any state. It is an area unto iteslf which sits north of the Potomac River that used to be part of Maryland. Originally, the Dis … trict of Columbia consisted of a part of Maryland north of the Potomac and a part of Virginia south of the Potomac. Confidence votes 212K. It is a federal district, distinct from any US state, that houses the government of the US. It is located about 25 miles west of upper Chesapeake Bay and SW of Baltimore, MD.