The Beta Particle. Beta decay is a radioactive process in which an electron is emitted from the nucleus of a radioactive atom, along with an unusual particle called an antineutrino. The neutrino is an almost massless particle that carries away some of the energy from the decay process. Because this electron is from the nucleus of the atom, it is called a beta particle to distinguish it from the electrons which orbit the atom. Like alpha decay, beta decay occurs in isotopes which are neutron rich (i.e. have a lot more neutrons in their nucleus than they do protons).
· just now. Report Abuse. When an atom emits a beta particle, its atomic number increases by one. This is because one of the atom 's neutrons is released as an electron (negatively charged) and an antineutrino (no charge). The decay leaves the nucleus of that atom with an additional positively-charged proton. The proton remains in the nucleus, the electron is emitted at high speed, an the anti-neutrino is an anti matter particle, which thus annihilates with a neutrino. The mass number stays the same, a neutron is replaced by a proton. The atomic number increases by one as an additional proton is in the nucleus.
Using a Nuclear Equation to find which Particle is Emitted. Some nuclei can decay by emitting either an alpha particle or a beta particle. An example is bismuth where 1/3 of the atoms emit an alpha particle and 2/3 of the atoms emit a beta particle. You can work out which particle is emitted by balancing the equation. 
Radioactive decay, also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity, is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting radiation. A material that spontaneously emits such radiation — which includes alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays and conversion electrons — is considered radioactive. Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way about. The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, causing a proton to convert into a neutron in a process called electron capture.
When an atom emits alpha or beta radiation, its nucleus changes. It becomes the nucleus of a different element. This is because the number of protons in the nucleus determines which element the atom belongs to. 
Page 4. Beta decay is a radioactive process in which an electron is emitted from the nucleus of a radioactive atom, along with an unusual particle called an antineutrino. The neutrino is an almost massless particle that carries away some of the energy from the decay process. Because this electron is from the nucleus of the atom, it is called a beta particle to distinguish it from the electrons which orbit the atom. Like alpha decay, beta decay occurs in isotopes which are neutron rich (i.e. have a lot more neutrons in their nucleus than they do protons).
Alpha decay is one type of radioactive decay, in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle, and thereby transforms (or decays) into an atom with a mass number decreased by 4 and atomic number decreased by 2. Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a neutrino, in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way about. The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron, causing a proton to convert into a neutron in a process called electron capture.
Beta decay. In Beta decay a neutron changes into a proton plus an electron. The proton stays in the nucleus and the electron leaves the atom with high energy, and we call it a beta particle. When a beta particle is emitted from the nucleus the nucleus has one more proton and one less neutron