Humidity and temperature in your marijuana grow room. It is important to know that the amount of absorbable water depends on the temperature. With a temperature of 68°F (20°C), the air can absorb a maximum of 7.2 ml of water.
Humidity is actually a measure of how much water vapor is being “held” in the air. There are different ways to measure humidity, including absolute, specific, or relative humidity. Most growers are talking about Relative Humidity or RH when they talk about humidity in the grow room. Relative humidity measures how much water is in their air compared to the maximum amount of water that can be held in the air at that temperature.
When plants grow in rooms with low levels of humidity they will often wither and die. Most plants prefer a humidity of around 60 percent, and anything less will cause water to be pulled from the soil and the leaves of the plant.
If your grow room feels warm or cold, humid or dry, that is a sign that you may want to look into changing the temperature and/or humidity of your grow area. Generally, cannabis plants prefer temperatures in the 70-80 °F (21-27 °C) range during the day when lights are on.
Humidity is too low-how to increase humidity. Humidifier-will add additional moisture to the air, I like the evaporative type of humidifier because it also works to cool down temps slightly. Make sure you get a humidifier with a large holding tank (holds at least 6 gallons of water at a time).
Instructions. Use a room humidifier to increase the air moisture in your grow room. You will need to periodically fill an air humidifier with water and have an available electrical outlet for this machine to work. Place trays filled with pebbles and water underneath your plants.
Control the humidity level and temperature in the grow room for proper and fast growth of marijuana plants. Ventilate the grow room area by allowing the air in. Improper level of humidity and temperature will cause stress on marijuana plants, resulting to stunted growth and poor yield.