This non-native species causes extensive ecological damage to native habitats. Secondary succession is the series of community changes which take place on a previously colonized, but disturbed or damaged habitat. Examples include areas which have been cleared of existing vegetation (such as after tree-felling in a woodland) and destructive events such as fires. Secondary succession is usually much quicker than primary succession for the following reasons: There is already an existing seed bank of suitable plants in the soil. 
Secondary succession. Definition. noun. The ecological succession that occurs on a preexisting soil after the primary succession has been disrupted or destroyed due to a disturbance that reduced the population of the initial inhabitants. Supplement. An example of secondary succession is the development of new inhabitants to replace the previous community of plants and animals that has been disrupted or disturbed by an event (e.g. forest fire, flood, harvesting, epidemic disease, pest attack, etc .). Compare: primary succession. See also: ecological succession.
Primary Succession. Primary succession begins when organisms move into a landscape previously devoid of all living things following a major disaster, such as the eruption of a volcano that completely destroys the prior environment. This succession involves a total rebuilding of the ecosystem. Primary succession is the population of an ecosystem that was previously completely uninhabited, while secondary succession involves the re-population of a diminished vegetative community. Other People Are Reading.
Succession refers to the ecological order in which plants populate a given environment. Primary succession is the population of an ecosystem that was previously completely uninhabited, while secondary succession involves the re-population of a diminished vegetative community. Other People Are Reading.
noun. The ecological succession that occurs on a preexisting soil after the primary succession has been disrupted or destroyed due to a disturbance that reduced the population of the initial inhabitants. An example of secondary succession is the development of new inhabitants to replace the previous community of plants and animals that has been disrupted or disturbed by an event (e.g. forest fire, flood, harvesting, epidemic disease, pest attack, etc .). Compare: primary succession. See also: ecological succession.
As opposed to the first, primary succession, secondary succession is a process started by an event that reduces an already established ecosystem to a smaller population of species, and as such secondary succession occurs on preexisting soil whereas primary succession usually occurs in a place lacking soil. 
Definition of Primary Succession. Primary succession is the colonization of new sites by communities of organisms. It often occurs after a devastating event has wiped out the organisms that lived in the area, or with the creation of a new habitat. Let's look at a couple examples to see how primary succession occurs. The organisms that engage in primary succession are known as pioneer species. Typical pioneer species include simple lichens, algae, and fungi. These simple organisms begin breaking down the resources in the environment and make it suitable for the later introduction of more complex species, such as vascular plants.
Primary succession is the colonization of new sites by communities of organisms. It often occurs after a devastating event has wiped out the organisms that lived in the area, or with the creation of a new habitat. The organisms that engage in primary succession are known as pioneer species. Typical pioneer species include simple lichens, algae, and fungi. These simple organisms begin breaking down the resources in the environment and make it suitable for the later introduction of more complex species, such as vascular plants.