Personal Core Values. “Try not to become a man of success but rather try to become a man of value.” - Albert Einstein. Values are beliefs or convictions that guide and direct my behavior and support my purpose and vision. My values define who I am.
Personal Values. Personal values are just that; personal. Each individual’s personal values are exclusive to that person. Personal values are the beliefs or standards that individuals use to evaluate and define actions and events throughout the multiple domains in their lives (Hyde & Weathington, 2006). 
Values are the principles or standards of behavior that are formed by life experiences and codes of conduct, implicitly and explicitly, from our family, culture(s), organization(s), institution(s), religion(s), nation(s), etc.. Generally, we have two forms of values, personal and core. 
Although your personal core values may not exactly match anyone else's, they still help you determine your surrounding culture. Most smart people consciously or unconsciously use personal core values to select friendships, relationships and business partnerships. Your core values also help you wisely manage your personal resources such as time and money.
But it's difficult to accurately create or accept core values for your company if your own personal core values are unclear. Many claim to understand their own values, but I maintain you don't really know them until you have: 1  Articulated them clearly in writing. 2  Tested them through daily decision-making. Most smart people consciously or unconsciously use personal core values to select friendships, relationships and business partnerships. Your core values also help you wisely manage your personal resources such as time and money.
If your personal core values list is still too long and bulky, chip away at it some more until you only have about 10 values on your list. Make that part of who you are and know that this is your code (or map) to your best life. How to compile your own set of Personal Core Values. There are dozens of values to choose from in the list below. To make it easier for yourself place a number value beside each one on a scale of zero to ten. Zero means it is not even on your radar, ten means you hold it in very high regard.
Personal core values help focus and align your life choices. Choosing your personal core values is one of the critical focusing decisions that can make an amazing difference in how you live your life. As a person, they reflect the fundamental choices of who we want to be. 1 Provides guidance-Personal core values should help you in your everyday decisions, particularly with relationships. 2  Long lasting-This is about creating your future. 3  Expect that your values will evolve as you grow, mature and gain life experience. 4  However, this is not about following the latest fad.
As a life strategist, I’ve come to appreciate the power of values. I’ve observed that individuals experience greater fulfillment when they live in accordance with their values. And when individuals don’t honor their values, they don’t feel too good. Without undergoing a discovery process, it’s challenging to know your personal core values. It’s easy to intellectualize and idealize what you should value. But knowing and accepting what you do value takes effort.
Our personal core values make us who we are and will dictate how we will react to life in general. It is an important part of any personal growth plan and a key factor in shaping your attitude. It should be part of our life lessons we need to look at from time to time. What are values: How to compile your own set of Personal Core Values. There are dozens of values to choose from in the list below. To make it easier for yourself place a number value beside each one on a scale of zero to ten. Zero means it is not even on your radar, ten means you hold it in very high regard.
Now that you know what values are and why they are important, you can begin the process of defining your unique set of core values. Follow these five steps below to begin the process of defining your personal values. 