If a home inspector has held a license for more than one year prior to the expiration, but less than two years, then 6 hours of approved continuing education of which a minimum of 3 hours of continuing education must be approved as a mandatory course is required. 
Tips. 1  Keep yourself in good physical condition so you can perform your job as a licensed building inspector. 2  You need to be able to climb on ladders and crawl into tight spots to make some inspections. 3  You may have to take a civil service exam to qualify for a government inspection job. 1 You need to be able to climb on ladders and crawl into tight spots to make some inspections. 2  You may have to take a civil service exam to qualify for a government inspection job. 3  In order to advance within a home inspection organization, you must take additional coursework to stay current on building trends.
What are the requirements to be a licensed Home Inspector? Every licensed home inspector who is engaged in home inspection shall secure, maintain, and file proof of a certificate of liability coverage with the Department of State, which shall be a minimum amount of $150,000 per occurrence and $500,000 aggregate. The renewal application is posted to the Home Inspector approximately 3 months prior to the expiration of his or her license. The application must be completed and submitted with a $100 fee to the Department of State, Division of Licensing Services.
A home inspector needs to be knowledgeable about all aspects of a building's structure before he can properly identify any potential problems for homeowners. A licensed building inspector needs work experience to be successful as well. 1 You need to be able to climb on ladders and crawl into tight spots to make some inspections. 2  You may have to take a civil service exam to qualify for a government inspection job. 3  In order to advance within a home inspection organization, you must take additional coursework to stay current on building trends.
1 Keep yourself in good physical condition so you can perform your job as a licensed building inspector. 2  You need to be able to climb on ladders and crawl into tight spots to make some inspections. 3  You may have to take a civil service exam to qualify for a government inspection job. 1 You need to be able to climb on ladders and crawl into tight spots to make some inspections. 2  You may have to take a civil service exam to qualify for a government inspection job. 3  In order to advance within a home inspection organization, you must take additional coursework to stay current on building trends.
1 You may have to take a civil service exam to qualify for a government inspection job. 2  In order to advance within a home inspection organization, you must take additional coursework to stay current on building trends. 1 You need to be able to climb on ladders and crawl into tight spots to make some inspections. 2  You may have to take a civil service exam to qualify for a government inspection job. 3
Get educated. If you weren’t licensed before September 1, 2009, you’re required to take a board-approved, 120-hour Fundamentals of Home Inspection course, and mentor with an experienced home inspector for 40 hours of field training. See Home Inspector Education Course Catalog for a list of board-approved fundamental courses. 
Find a Job. As a qualified and licensed or certified building inspector, you can hunt for a job in a local, state or federal government departments, architectural and engineering firms and technical consulting companies (Ref 5). Develop Essential Skills. To excel as a building inspector, you must have superb practical, analytical and communication skills. The job involves reviewing construction blueprints and building plans, a role that requires a keen eye for detail to detect minor code violations.
LICENSE LAW — pdf It is the responsibility of licensees to understand the Home Inspection Professional License Law. Home Inspection is defined as the process by which a home inspector observes and provides a written report of the systems and components of a residential building including but not limited to: 1  Heating System. 2  Cooling System. 3  Plumbing System. Home inspectors are required to complete 24 hours of approved continuing education within their two-year license renewal period prior to the expiration date in order to renew their license.
Although many states require building inspectors to obtain a license or certificate, others -- such as California -- only license inspectors of acute care and skilled nursing facilities. Develop Essential Skills. To excel as a building inspector, you must have superb practical, analytical and communication skills. The job involves reviewing construction blueprints and building plans, a role that requires a keen eye for detail to detect minor code violations.