Definition. Monetary assets (such as cash and accounts receivable) and monetary liabilities (such as notes and accounts payable) that have a fixed exchange value unaffected by inflation or deflation. Holding monetary assets when prices are rising results in loss of purchasing power because the real value of currency is falling.
Simply stated, assets represent value of ownership that can be converted into cash (although cash itself is also considered an asset). The balance sheet of a firm records the monetary value of the assets owned by the firm. It is money and other valuables belonging to an individual or business. Two major asset classes are tangible assets and intangible assets. Tangible assets contain various subclasses, including current assets and fixed assets. 
asset. Something of monetary value that is owned by a firm or an individual. Assets are listed on a firm's balance sheet and include tangible items such as inventories, equipment, and real estate as well as intangible items such as property rights or goodwill. Compare liability. In accounting, anything of value that a person or firm buys. Assets can be physical, such as real estate or stocks, a claim on debts, such as accounts receivable or liens, or a right, such as a patent. Of crucial importance to assets is their relative liquidity, or the ease with which they can be converted to cash.
Monetary Asset. Definition: A monetary asset is an asset whose value is stated in or convertible into a fixed amount of cash. Thus, $50,000 of cash now will still be considered $50,000 of cash one year from now. Examples of monetary assets are cash, investments, accounts receivable, and notes receivable. The term can be more tightly defined to exclude any assets that cannot be readily converted into cash (such as long-term investments or notes receivable).
Assets in which the right to receive a fixed or determinable amount of currency is absent. This feature distinguishes nonmonetary assets from monetary assets such as cash, bank deposits, and accounts and notes receivable, which can be converted into a fixed or determinable amount of currency. 
monetary asset. An asset such as cash, accounts receivable, or a note receivable where the amount is a fixed, stated amount. Holding these assets during periods of inflation will result in a loss of purchasing power.
non-monetary asset. An asset (such as equipment, inventory, land, or plant) that does not have a fixed exchange cash value, but whose value depends on economic conditions. 
DEFINITION of 'Monetary Item'. An asset or liability carrying a value in dollars that will not change in the future. These items have a fixed numerical value in dollars, and a dollar is always worth a dollar. The numbers don't change even though the purchasing power of a dollar does