In the advanced stage many diseases are prevalent in the sufferer before death occurs. Carbohydrates displace essential protein and essential fats in the diet to cause a double health reversal. The carbohydrates themselves cause disease, and the deficiency of protein and fats contribute or cause other diseases. The consumption of carbohydrates generally begins showing the disease effects in either one of two direction
Fat deficiency coupled with high intake of proteins causes 'rabbit starvation' condition. Excess nutrition: Fats when consumed in excess of requirement can result in cardiovascular problems and obesity. Many malnutrition diseases are caused by the deficiency of minerals. Deficient malnutrition: Goiter, cretinism and hypothyroidism are the results of dietary Iodine deficiency. The shortage of carbohydrates in food causes nutrition problems like energy starvation, weakness and lethargy. Deficient malnutrition: Protein deficiency in children causes malnutrition diseases like kwashiorkor.
Website Lasting Weight Loss. No, there are no diseases. Unlike protein and fats, we do not need carbohydrate to flourish physically. Very little carbohydrate can lead to benign ketosis, loss of sodium ions(Na+), and protein breakdown. Carbohydrate is the body's primary source of glucose, which will be broken down and used as energy in cells.
Prolonged deprivation leads to the symptoms and diseases connected with severe carbohydrate short fall. The symptoms include hypoglycemia, confusion, tremor, feverishness, giddiness, fatigue, distress, delirium, muscles atrophy, loss of muscle tissue and reduces stamina. Symptoms and manifestations of carbohydrate deficiency. Advertisement. Related topics: Protein deficiency diseases. Protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) . Vitamin deficiency diseases. Fat deficiency diseases. Mineral deficiency diseases. Popular topics: Beriberi disease.
There are no deficiency diseases caused by water other than dehydration. Dehydration can be very serious as your body relies heavily on water. Symptoms such as nausea, l … ethargy and confusion, inability to regulate body temperature, hypotension, and in serious cases coma and even death. Phosphorus  deficiency may cause bone diseases such as rickets in children and osteomalaciain adults. An improper  balance of phosphorus and calcium may cause osteoporosis. …  Dietary sources  of phosphorus include milk products, egg yolk, legumes, nuts, and  whole grains.
Photo by: Gravicapa. Dietary deficiencies are disorders that occur because of a lack of essential nutrients in the diet, or because the body cannot absorb and process those nutrients once they are eaten. Most dietary deficiency diseases are caused by a lack of protein, vitamins, or minerals. Protein deficiency diseases occur when a person does not eat enough protein; these diseases are prevalent in developing countries where people are too poor to buy protein-rich foods or where such foods are hard to find. 
Deficiency Diseases of Carbohydrates. Introduction to Deficiency diseases of Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are large molecules formed by polymerization and are also called macromolecules. Their main constituents are carbon, hydrogen and oxygen with a ratio of two hydrogen atoms for each oxygen aom. Carbohydrates can be classified as monosaccharides, disaccharides, oligosaccharides and polysaccharides. Monosaccharides like glucose are the building blocks of c
Hypoglycemia: The non availability of glucose due to severe lack of carbohydrate causes drop in the blood sugar levels. Hypoglycemia occurs when blood glucose, levels drop under 70 mg/dL with typical symptoms like giddiness, fatigue, distress and delirium. Symptoms and manifestations of carbohydrate deficiency. Advertisement. Related topics: Protein deficiency diseases. Protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) . Vitamin deficiency diseases. Fat deficiency diseases. Mineral deficiency diseases. Popular topics: Beriberi disease.
Carbohydrate Deficiency Diseases. Carbohydrates are being shunned by health conscious, rather weight conscious, people. They have to understand that carbohydrate deficiency diseases and their manifestations are certain to appear if there is too much exclusion of carbohydrates in the diet. Symptoms and manifestations of carbohydrate deficiency. Advertisement. Related topics: Protein deficiency diseases. Protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) . Vitamin deficiency diseases. Fat deficiency diseases. Mineral deficiency diseases. Popular topics: Beriberi disease.