Black Hawk. Tens-qua-ta-wa. The Great Lakes is a chain of inland lakes -- Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron, Lake Michigan, and Lake Superior -- stretching from New York to Minnesota. 
The lakes contained in 2009 84% of the surface freshwater of North America; if the water were evenly distributed over the entire continent's land area, it would reach a depth of 1.5 meters (5 feet). Though the five lakes reside in separate basins, they form a single, naturally interconnected body of fresh water, within the Great Lakes Basin. The lakes form a chain connecting the east-central interior of North America to the Atlantic Ocean.
Although it has been called America's Dead Sea , the lake provides habitat for millions of native birds, brine shrimp, shorebirds, and waterfowl, including the largest staging population of Wilson's phalarope in the world. The Great Salt Lake, located in the northern part of the U.S. state of Utah, is the largest salt water lake in the Western Hemisphere, and the fourth-largest terminal lak
The Great Salt Lake is both the largest body of water between the Great Lakes and the Pacific Ocean and the largest salt lake in the western hemisphere. The Great Salt Lake is the major remnant of Lake Bonneville, a large freshwater lake of the Pleistocene era (75,000-7,250 B.C.) that occupied much of western Utah. 
These gouges became the lakes of the Great Lakes that we know today. The first Europeans to see Lake Michigan were French traders and explorers in the 1600's. One of which, Samuel de Champlain (1567?-1635), who mapped much of northeastern North America, called Lake Michigan the Grand Lac. On the 1688 map, Lake Michigan is called Lac des Illinois. An Indian name for Lake Michigan was Michi gami and through further interaction with the Indians, the Lake of the Stinking Water received its final name of Michigan.
The Great Lakes are a chain of freshwater lakes located in eastern North America. They are the largest group of freshwater lakes on earth. Several popular memory devices make it easy to remember their names. Learning more about the characteristics of each lake will also help you recall them. 1. Learn about Lake Superior. It's called Superior because it is larger than all of the other Great Lakes combined. This gigantic lake contains 10 percent of all the world's fresh surface water. Lake Superior touches Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Ontario, CA, and is the western-most lake of the five.
How They Were Made. Thousands of years ago, the melting mile-thick glaciers of the Wisconsin Ice Age left the North American continent a magnificent gift: five fantastic freshwater seas collectively known today as the Great Lakes -- Lake Superior, Lake Huron, Lake Michigan, Lake Erie and Lake Ontario. From the westernmost tip of Lake Superior at Duluth, Minn., to the easternmost tip of Lake Ontario at Watertown, N.Y., lakes stretch a thousand miles across the heartland of both the U.S. and Canada, creating nearly 9,500 miles of ocean-like shores. The lakes also contain an estimated 35,000 islands.
The Great Lakes (also called the Laurentian Great Lakes, or the Great Lakes of North America) are a series of interconnected freshwater lakes located in northeastern North America, on the Canada–United States border, which connect to the Atlantic Ocean through the Saint Lawrence River. Though the five lakes reside in separate basins, they form a single, naturally interconnected body of fresh water, within the Great Lakes Basin. The lakes form a chain connecting the east-central interior of North America to the Atlantic Ocean.
As the surfaces of Lakes Superior, Huron, Michigan, and Erie are all approximately the same elevation above sea level, while Lake Ontario is significantly lower, and because the Niagara Escarpment precludes all natural navigation, the four upper lakes are commonly called the upper great lakes. Though the five lakes reside in separate basins, they form a single, naturally interconnected body of fresh water, within the Great Lakes Basin. The lakes form a chain connecting the east-central interior of North America to the Atlantic Ocean.
Lake Ontario came into being, and the Niagara River became Lake Erie's outlet. As the ice sheet retreated into Canada, it temporarily made Lakes Superior, Michigan and Huron into one huge body of water called Lake Nipissing, which had the unusual quality of having three outlets -- via the Ottawa-St. From the westernmost tip of Lake Superior at Duluth, Minn., to the easternmost tip of Lake Ontario at Watertown, N.Y., lakes stretch a thousand miles across the heartland of both the U.S. and Canada, creating nearly 9,500 miles of ocean-like shores. The lakes also contain an estimated 35,000 islands.