This report describes the typical weather at the Juan Santamaria Santamaría International (Airport San, Jose José) costa rica weather station over the course of An. Average may it is based on the historical records from 1994. To 2012 earlier records are either unavailable. or unreliable 
Country Overview For Costa Rica. The climate in Costa Rica is typically tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to April); rainy season (May to November); cooler in highlands. The terrain: coastal plains separated by rugged mountains including over 100 volcanic cones, of which several are major volcanoes. At night the average minimum temperature drops down to around 18°C, that's 65°F. In recent times the highest recorded temperature in October has been 33°C that's 91°F, with the lowest recorded temperature 15°C, about 59°F.
Last updated: Jun 13, 2015. Tropical sunshine, Pacific trade wind breezes and cool misty mountains are just a part of Costa Rica's temperate tropical climate. Nestled into Central America, Costa Rica's north of the equator with a climate marked by two seasons: the dry season (Dec.-April) and the wet season (May-Nov.). Despite its proximity to the equatorial sun, average daily temperatures range between 71 and 81 degrees. 
In Costa Rica the average annual temperature is around 21 to 27 degrees Celsius or 70 to 81 degrees Fahrenheit and the coolest months of the year are November, December and January. The months March through May are the hottest months of the year, so make sure you protect yourself from the sun. Although Costa Rica is a small country in terms of area, there is a lot going on here in terms of weather in Costa Rica. With a climate that is diverse and varied, Costa Rica can be divided into several climatic zones, each of which are distinct and individual
Rainfall is between 26 and 30 mm. The temperatures drop during the rainy season but the climate is still mild, with temperatures ranging from 19 to 28 degrees Celsius. Fortunately, Arenal Volcano is part of the costa Rica central mountain range, keeping it warmer year around. From May through the month of November, Costa Rica reports its rainy season and this allows the environment to dress in green, with larger crops. From the Arenal Observatory Lodge, you will enjoy a 360° panoramic views of Lake Arenal and also the Arenal Volcano just in front of our lodge.
The 7 day weather forecast summary for Arenal Volcano: For Arenal Volcano in the coming week the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 31°C, with a high for the week of 32°C expected on the afternoon of Wednesday 21st. The mean minimum temperature will be 24°C, dipping to its lowest on the morning of Wednesday 21st at 22°C. 
Arenal: Annual Weather Averages. April is the hottest month in Arenal with an average temperature of 30°C (86°F) and the coldest is September at 27°C (81°F) . 
The weather in the central valley is the mildest of the whole country, with average temperatures between 72 and 75 degrees, a high of 84 degrees and a low of 64 degrees. Spanning Arenal, Monteverde and Ciudad Quesada, the Northern highlands and lowlands weather is determined by elevation. Average temperatures hover around 86 degrees in the lowlands and 70 degrees in the highlands. Winds increase with elevation making Monteverde particularly windy.