Full Definition of LANDMARK. 1. : an object (as a stone or tree) that marks the boundary of land. 2. a: a conspicuous object on land that marks a locality b: an anatomical structure used as a point of orientation in locating other structures. 3. : an event or development that marks a turning point or a stage. 4. Examples of LANDMARK. 1  The Golden Gate Bridge is a famous landmark in San Francisco. 2  The battlefield is a national historical landmark. 3  The moon landing is a landmark in space exploration. 4  The decision was a landmark in legal history.
Noun. 1. landmark-the position of a prominent or well-known object in a particular landscape; the church steeple provided a convenient landmark. position, place-the particular portion of space occupied by something; he put the lamp back in its place. 2. something used to mark the boundary of land. 3. a building or other place of outstanding historical, aesthetic, or cultural importance. 4. a significant or historic event, juncture, achievement, etc. 5. to declare (a building, site, etc.) a landmark.
noun. 1 An object or feature of a landscape or town that is easily seen and recognized from a distance, especially one that enables someone to establish their location: the spire was once a landmark for ships sailing up the river. 
The definition of a landmark is a building or an object that helps you identify a location or the boundary of a piece of land. An example of a landmark is the library that you turn after in your directions. Landmark is defined as an event that changed history. An example of landmark is a legal case that is very important. Landmark means a location that has historical importance. An example of a landmark is Gettysburg.
landmark-a mark showing the boundary of a piece of land. point of reference, reference point, reference-an indicator that orients you generally; it is used as a reference for comparing the heating and the electrical energy involved. 2. something used to mark the boundary of land. 3. a building or other place of outstanding historical, aesthetic, or cultural importance. 4. a significant or historic event, juncture, achievement, etc. 5. to declare (a building, site, etc.) a landmark.
Etymology [edit]. In old English the word landmearc (from land + mearc (mark)) was used to describe an object set up to mark the boundaries of a kingdom, estate, etc.. Starting from approx. 1560, this understanding of landmark was replaced by a more general one. A landmark became a conspicuous object in a landscape
noun. The definition of a landmark is a building or an object that helps you identify a location or the boundary of a piece of land. An example of a landmark is the library that you turn after in your directions. Landmark is defined as an event that changed history. An example of landmark is a legal case that is very important. Landmark means a location that has historical importance. An example of a landmark is Gettysburg.
landmark. n. 1. a prominent or well-known object in or feature of a particular landscape. 2. an important or unique decision, event, fact, discovery, etc. 3. a boundary marker or signpost. 2. something used to mark the boundary of land. 3. a building or other place of outstanding historical, aesthetic, or cultural importance. 4. a significant or historic event, juncture, achievement, etc. 5. to declare (a building, site, etc.) a landmark.
Medical Definition of LANDMARK. 1. : an anatomical structure used as a point of orientation in locating other structures (as in surgical procedures). 2. : a point on the body or skeleton from which anthropological measurements are taken. Examples of LANDMARK. 1  The Golden Gate Bridge is a famous landmark in San Francisco. 2  The battlefield is a national historical landmark. 3  The moon landing is a landmark in space exploration. 4  The decision was a landmark in legal history.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: landmark (noun). the position of a prominent or well-known object in a particular landscape. the church steeple provided a convenient landmark. landmark, turning point, watershed (noun). an event marking a unique or important historical change of course or one on which important developments depend. the agreement was a watershed in the history of both nations. landmark (noun).