2,585. You didnt really say exactly what your average speed is. If after 2 hours in the saddle you maintain an average speed of 18 mph on fairly level road on a mountain bike I would say you would be in pretty good shape and could race at the top of Clydes or in expert.
All Mountain Bikes. An all mountain bike or enduro mountain bike is similar to a cross country mountain bike in that it can be ridden uphill and downhill, but it has more suspension in the front and back, usually around 140-160 mm of travel, to handle harder and more technical obstacles. 
Singletrack Six: RIDE THE WEST. Singletrack 6 is a 6 day mountain bike adventure showcasing the best riding in a variety of authentic mountain bike communities in Western Canada. Six stages, a new route every year and the perfect brew of xc, panoramic vistas and epic descents. Register Now! 
A singletrack trail is one where users must generally travel in single file. The term hiking trail is an improper synonym for singletrack, because it defines a type of user, not the physical structure of the trail. The tread of a singletrack trail is typically 18- to 24-inches wide, though it can be as narrow as 6 or as wide as 36 inches. Singletrack trails tend to wind around obstacles such as trees, large rocks, and bushes. As compared to roads, singletrack trails blend into the surrounding environment, disturb much less ground, and are easier to maintain.
A cross-country rider on singletrack during a race. Single track or singletrack is a narrow mountain biking trail that is approximately the width of the bike. It contrasts with double track or fire road which is wide enough for four-wheeled off-road vehicles. Some trails are winding and flowing, while others are bumpy and challenging. Many trails offer features such as roots, logs and rocks. Single track paths can be ridden using a mountain bike, BMX bike or race bike.
A cross-country mountain biker on a trail in Utah. Cross-country (XC) cycling is the most common discipline of mountain biking. Cross-country cycling became an Olympic sport in 1996 and is the only form of mountain biking practiced at the Olympics. Cross-country cycling is defined by the terrain on which it is performed. XC courses and trails consist of a mix of rough forest paths and singletrack (also referred to as doubletrack depending on width), smooth fireroads, and even paved paths connecting other trails.
To me, mountain biking is mountain biking. Your on a trail riding over all different terrain, grass, sand, rock gardens, big rocks, drop offs everything on that trail your riding, whether its considered XC or single track.. Maybe there is a real difference and I just dont know about it but when I go out to ride I am going mountain biking.. Yeah some bikes are more considered XC bikes or singletrack bikes but to me they can and should be able to handle both because no matter what there most likely going to run into the some of the same terrain. Guess I just never really understood the difference or thought about it like this. 06-26-2011 #2. banned
Cross-country (XC) cycling is the most common discipline of mountain biking. Cross-country cycling is defined by the terrain on which it is performed. XC courses and trails consist of a mix of rough forest paths and singletrack (also referred to as doubletrack depending on width), smooth fireroads, and even paved paths connecting other trails.