While called soba, Okinawa Soba are not made with buckwheat flour but with wheat flour. Their texture is more of a cross between ramen and udon noodles. Okinawa Soba are usually served in a hot pork broth with slices of simmered pork, green onions and pickled ginger. Mori/Zaru Soba (cold) The most basic kind of chilled soba served on a tray with a simple chilled dipping sauce (tsuyu) served on the side. The dipping sauce is usually a mixture of soup stock, water and mirin.
Soba /ˈsoʊbə/ (そば or 蕎麦) is the Japanese name for buckwheat. It is synonymous with a type of thin noodle made from buckwheat flour, and in Japan can refer to any thin noodle (unlike thick wheat noodles, known as udon). Soba noodles are served either chilled with a dipping sauce, or in hot broth as a noodle soup. It takes three months for buckwheat to be ready for harvest, so it can be harvested four times a year, mainly in spring, summer, and autumn. Soba is the traditional noodle of choice for Tokyoites. This tradition originates from the Tokugawa period, when the population of Edo (Tokyo), being considerably wealthier than the rural poor, were more susceptible to beriberi due to their high consumption of white rice, which is low in thiamine.
Made from buckwheat flour, soba noodles have a nutty flavor and work well as a base for stir-fries and salads. They offer an alternative to wheat pasta if you follow a gluten-free diet, but check the label to make sure the brand you choose doesn't contain wheat ingredients. 
In Japan, soba noodles are served in a variety of settings: they are a popular inexpensive fast food at railway stations throughout Japan, but are also served by expensive specialty restaurants. Markets sell dried noodles and men-tsuyu, or instant noodle broth, to make home preparation easy. Soba is the traditional noodle of choice for Tokyoites. This tradition originates from the Tokugawa period, when the population of Edo (Tokyo), being considerably wealthier than the rural poor, were more susceptible to beriberi due to their high consumption of white rice, which is low in thiamine.
Soba-These noodles are made from buckwheat flour and have a correspondingly strong, nutty flavor. Many buckwheat noodles also have some wheat flour in them, which means they're not gluten-free. However, pure buckwheat soba can be found — it's stronger in flavor and really delicious, and of course, gluten-free. Once upon a time, if you wanted to make a recipe that called for soba, udon, or any other kind of Asian noodle, you had to also find your nearest Asian grocery store. Happily, these noodles have become much easier to find in recent years. Here's a quick guide to the most common kinds!
The most basic soba dish is mori soba in which boiled, cold soba noodles are eaten with a soya based dipping sauce (tsuyu). Many soba dishes are eaten throughout the year, while others are only available seasonally. Mori/Zaru Soba (cold) The most basic kind of chilled soba served on a tray with a simple chilled dipping sauce (tsuyu) served on the side. The dipping sauce is usually a mixture of soup stock, water and mirin.
Some eating establishments mix soba and other noodles such as udon for texture and flavor variation. Like other types of pasta, soba tastes the best when fresh. To make fresh noodles, buckwheat flour, water, and a binder are mixed together into a smooth, elastic dough. Oroshi soba, another type of cold dish, involves adding cold noodles to a chilled broth to make a cold soup, which can be quite refreshing in the summer. Soba is also eaten hot in a variety of preparations. The noodles are often served with a topping of fish or vegetables and a side dish of sauce to dip them in.
Soba noodles are Japanese thin noodles made of at least 30% buckwheat. Since buckwheat has a tendency not to adhere closely, the noodles also include regular wheat flower. They look very much like spaghetti noodles except they are a light brown in color. Soba noodles are made with buckwheat flour, which contains vitamin P. Plate of cooked soba noodles. Sliced okra is often used on soba noodles. Flour from the buckwheat plant is used to make the Japanese soba noodle.
(November 2012). Okinawa soba (沖縄そば) is a type of noodle soup produced in Okinawa Prefecture, Japan. In Okinawa, it is sometimes simply called soba, or suba in many Okinawan dialects, although it is different from buckwheat noodles known as soba in the rest of Japan. The thick wheat noodles resemble udon, while the soup is more similar to that of ramen. Today the word soba means buckwheat, in particular buckwheat noodles, in Japanese. This word is in origin an abbreviation of soba-mugi (buckwheat). The word soba refers to the edge in ancient Japanese, and soba-mugi meant edgy wheat. Around the 16th century, buckwheat began to be processed into noodles.