Some diseases of the brain that can cause dysphagia include: 1  stroke, 2  amyotropic lateral sclerosis, 3  Parkinson's disease, 4  multiple sclerosis, 5  head injury, and. 6  cerebral palsy.
Dysphagia Definition. Feeling gene to increase food between the throat and stomach, dysphagia is a symptom pointing to various diseases of the esophagus. Dysphagia is neither pain nor difficulty in swallowing but a feeling of gene progression food from the mouth to the stomach.
Functional Dysphagia. Dysphagia is an alarm symptom when it is accompanied by reflux symptoms and prompts an endoscopic evaluation. Patients describe dysphagia, as a sensation of solid and/or liquid food sticking in the chest on the way down.
Dysphagia has many causes. First, there may be physical (anatomical) obstruction to the passage of food. Second, there may be abnormalities in the function (functional abnormalities) of the nerves of the brain, throat, and esophagus whose normal function is necessary to coordinate swallowing.
Functional dysphagia. Achalasia of the lower esophageal sphincter: it is a lack of relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter causing dilation of the esophagus upstream (which accumulate food that can not enter the stomach) hence the term “mega-esophagus.” Its cause is unknown.
Under the terms of this dysphagia, there are two origins: - Functional dysphagia, that is to say, a motor disorder of the esophagus or. - Dysphagia organic, that is to say, due to an obstacle in the path of the bolus. Dysphagia test (img thanks to shangaylove.com).
1 The tongue also is necessary for propelling the food to the back of the mouth and upper throat (pharynx) initiating the second stage. 2  The second stage of swallowing, is an automatic reflex that causes the muscles of the throat to propel the food through the throat (pharynx) and into the esophagus or swallowing tube.
Dysphagia Causes. There are two main types of dysphagia: dysphagia due to esophageal motility disorder (called functional dysphagia) and dysphagia or mechanical lesion in relation to an obstacle to the progress of the bolus.
Dysphagia Causes. Dysphagia can result from abnormalities in any of the complex steps necessary for swallowing. The process of swallowing has three stages. 1  The first stage of swallowing begins in the mouth, where the tongue helps move the food around inside the mouth so that it can be chewed and softened with saliva.