There are two major classes of communications satellites, Passive and Active. Passive satellites only redirect (usually via reflection) the signal coming from the source, toward the direction of the receiver. A direct broadcast satellite is a communications satellite that transmits to small DBS satellite dishes (usually 18 to 24 inches or 45 to 60 cm in diameter).
Often abbreviated as comsat, a communications satellite is a satellite that has been stationed in space for the purpose of providing telecommunications. Communications satellites are commonly used for mobile phone signals, weather tracking, or broadcasting television programs. Communications satellites are artificial satellites that relay receive signals from an earth station and then retransmits the signal to other earth stations. They commonly move in a geostationary orbit
In general, a satellite is anything that orbits something else, as, for example, the moon orbits the earth. In a communications context, a satellite is a specialized wireless receiver/transmitter that is launched by a rocket and placed in orbit around the earth. There are hundreds of satellites currently in operation
1 Power subsystem: The power subsystem of the communications satellite is used to power the satellite systems. 2  It normally contains two elements: 3  These are used to provide power when the satellite is in sunlight. 4  These normally consist of large arrays of solar cells often on extended arms. When used for communications, a satellite acts as a repeater. Its height above the Earth means that signals can be transmitted over distances that are very much greater than the line of sight. An earth station transmits the signal up to the satellite. This is called the up-link and is transmitted on one frequency.
Two satellites which are commonly used in satellite communication are Active and passive satellites. Passive satellites: It is just a plastic balloon having a metal coated over it. This sphere reflects the coming microwave signals coming from one part of the earth to other part. This is also known as passive sphere. Due to this geo-stationary satellites are also called as geo-synchronous satellites. Geo-synchronous orbit is at a height of nearly 36000km from the surface of earth. These orbits are capable of giving a successful communication link between two stations present on the earth.
1. communications satellite-an artificial satellite that relays signals back to earth; moves in a geostationary orbit. communication equipment, communication system-facility consisting of the physical plants and equipment for disseminating information. There are two types: a. active communications satellite--A satellite that receives, regenerates, and retransmits signals between stations; b. passive communications satellite--A satellite which reflects communications signals between stations.
Communications satellites are used for television, telephone, radio, internet, and military applications. There are over 2,000 communications satellites in Earth’s orbit, used by both private and government organizations. A direct broadcast satellite is a communications satellite that transmits to small DBS satellite dishes (usually 18 to 24 inches or 45 to 60 cm in diameter).
A communications satellite is an artificial satellite that relays and amplifies through the use of a transponder, radio telecommunications signals, between a source and a receiver. A direct broadcast satellite is a communications satellite that transmits to small DBS satellite dishes (usually 18 to 24 inches or 45 to 60 cm in diameter).
In the context of spaceflight, a satellite is an artificial object which has been intentionally placed into orbit. Such objects are sometimes called artificial satellites to distinguish them from natural satellites such as Earth's Moon. 1 Sun-synchronous orbit: An orbit which combines altitude and inclination in such a way that the satellite passes over any given point of the planets' surface at the same local solar time. 2  Such an orbit can place a satellite in constant sunlight and is useful for imaging, spy, and weather satellites.