The Third Amendment (Amendment III) to the United States Constitution places restrictions on the quartering of soldiers in private homes without the owner's consent, forbidding the practice in peacetime. Congress proposed the amendment to the states on September 28, 1789, and by December 15, 1791, the necessary three-quarters of the states had ratified it. Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson announced the adoption of the amendment on March 1, 1792.
The Third Amendment to the U.S. Constitution reads: No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law. 
The Bill of Rights are the first 10 amendments to the United States Constitution. The idea behind the Bill of Rights was to insure certain freedoms and rights to the citizens of America. Also protected are freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, and the right to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. The Second Amendment-protects citizen's right to bear arms. The Third Amendment-prevents the government from placing troops in private homes.
The First Amendment is perhaps the most important part of the Bill of Rights. It protects five of the most basic liberties. They are freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, and freedom to petition the government to right wrongs. 
Here is a list of the first 10 amendments to the Constitution, the Bill of Rights: The First Amendment-states that Congress shall make no law preventing the establishment of religion or prohibiting its free exercise. Also protected are freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, and the right to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. The Second Amendment-protects citizen's right to bear arms. The Third Amendment-prevents the government from placing troops in private homes.
The Third Amendment was introduced in Congress in 1789 by James Madison as a part of the United States Bill of Rights, in response to Anti-Federalist objections to the new Constitution. Congress proposed the amendment to the states on September 28, 1789, and by December 15, 1791, the necessary three-quarters of the states had ratified it. Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson announced the adoption of the amendment on March 1, 1792.
From the Constitution. Here is the text of the Third Amendment from the Constitution: No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law. 1 It is sometimes referred to as Amendment III. 2  Patrick Henry said that the quartering of soldiers was one of the principal reasons for dissolving the connection with Great Britain.. 3  The U.S. government quartered troops in private homes during the War of 1812 and the Civil War.
The Third Amendment Defined: The Third Amendment is a part of the Bill of Rights, which are the first 10 Amendments to the United States Constitution and the framework to elucidate upon the freedoms of the individual. The Bill of Rights were proposed and sent to the states by the first session of the First Congress. They were later ratified on December 15, 1791. The Third Amendment was introduced on September 5, 1789.
The third amendment was introduced into the United States Constitution as a part of the Bill of Rights on September 5, 1789 and was ratified or voted for by three fourths of the states on December 15, 1791. The Text of the Third Amendment. The text of the Third Amendment which is found in the United States Constitution and the Bill of Rights is the following: No soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in manner to be prescribed by law. History of the Third Amendment. The Third Amendment was introduced by James Madison. The Third Amendment said that no soldier could demand a place to stay during wartime, although a soldier of the United States government could ask someone for a place to stay.