Photosensitivity is an abnormally high sensitivity to sunlight. Most people are at risk of developing sunburn during long exposure to sunlight. Exposure to ultraviolet rays from the sun can also lead to skin damage and skin cancer. Doxycycline and tetracycline, for example, can cause this reaction. The result is a skin rash that looks like a severe sunburn. These usually develop within about 24 hours of exposure to the sun. Photoallergic reactions can also develop as a side effect of some types of medication.
Photosensitivity is the amount to which an object reacts upon receiving photons, especially visible light. In medicine, the term is principally used for abnormal reactions of the skin, and two types are distinguished, photoallergy and phototoxicity. Sensitivity of the skin to a light source can take various forms. People with particular skin types are more sensitive to sunburn. Particular medications make the skin more sensitive to sunlight; these include most of the tetracycline antibiotics, heart drugs amiodarone, and sulfonamides.
Treatment usually includes lower exposure to the sun. Some chemicals can cause photosensitivity and should be avoided. These chemicals can be found in some medications and products. Medications that cause photosensitivity include some forms of chemotherapy. Doxycycline and tetracycline, for example, can cause this reaction. The result is a skin rash that looks like a severe sunburn. These usually develop within about 24 hours of exposure to the sun. Photoallergic reactions can also develop as a side effect of some types of medication.
Photosensitivity, sometimes referred to as a sun allergy, is an immune system reaction that is triggered by sunlight. Photosensitivity reactions include solar urticaria, chemical photosensitization, and polymorphous light eruption and are usually characterized by an itchy eruption on patches of sun-exposed skin. Chemical photosensitivity. Over 100 substances, swallowed or applied to the skin, are known to cause sun-induced reactions on the skin. A limited number cause most reactions (see Some Substances That Sensitize the Skin to Sunlight).
photosensitivity. [-sen′sitiv′itē]. 1 sensitivity of a cell to light. 2 any abnormal response to exposure to light, specifically, a skin reaction requiring the presence of a sensitizing agent and exposure to sunlight or its equivalent. Photosensitivity includes photoallergic and phototoxic reactions and is common in systemic lupus erythematosus. The skin is a carefully designed interface between our bodies and the outside world. It is infection-proof when intact, nearly waterproof, and filled with protective mechanisms. Sunlight threatens the health of the skin. Normal skin is highly variable in its ability to resist sun damage.
Living well with lupus. Photosensitivity is the term used to describe sensitivity to the ultraviolet (UV) rays from sunlight and other light sources, such as indoor fluorescent light. Photosensitivity can cause rashes, fever, fatigue, joint pain, and other symptoms in people with both cutaneous (skin) and systemic lupus. UV rays are especially intense between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., at higher altitudes, and in or around the snow and the water. Excess exposure to UV rays is a common trigger for increased disease activity (flare) of both cutaneous lupus and systemic lupus.
Photosensitivity (or sun sensitivity) is inflammation of the skin induced by the combination of sunlight and certain medications or substances. This causes redness (erythema) of the skin and may look similar to sunburn. Sun-sensitizing drugs (photosensitivity) facts. 1  Many common medications may cause a reaction in some individuals that is similar to sunburn. 2  Symptoms of sun sensitivity are similar to those of sunburn. 3  The phototoxic reactions may happen within hours of exposure to sun.
Some chemicals contribute to sensitivity to the sun. These can cause two different types of photosensitive reactions: phototoxic and photoallergic. Phototoxic reactions are usually caused when a new chemical in the body interacts with ultraviolet rays from the sun. Doxycycline and tetracycline, for example, can cause this reaction. The result is a skin rash that looks like a severe sunburn. These usually develop within about 24 hours of exposure to the sun. Photoallergic reactions can also develop as a side effect of some types of medication.
Some medical conditions can also cause photosensitivity, including: 1  Lupus erythematous: Lupus is a connective tissue disease. 2  Red patches, lumps, and purple spots can develop on areas of the skin exposed to the sun. Doxycycline and tetracycline, for example, can cause this reaction. The result is a skin rash that looks like a severe sunburn. These usually develop within about 24 hours of exposure to the sun. Photoallergic reactions can also develop as a side effect of some types of medication.
Photosensitivity: Oversensitivity of skin to light. Photosensitivity can be a side effect of medications or result from diseases, such as lupus. Treatment depends on the severity of the reaction and the cause. Photosensitivity can be prevented by avoiding skin exposure to ultraviolet