Antidepressants The tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, are the “gold standard” for neuropathic pain as they are the most effective and best‐known drugs for this condition. They can also be useful for chronic nociceptive pain, especially if there is a neuropathic component to it. 
The main medications recommended for neuropathic pain include: 1  amitriptyline – this is also used for treatment of headaches and depression. 2  duloxetine – this is also used for treatment of bladder problems and depression. 3  pregabalin and gabapentin – these are also used to treat epilepsy, headaches or anxiety. The medical term for nerve pain is neuropathic pain. Unlike most other types of pain, neuropathic pain does not usually get better with common painkillers, such as paracetamol and ibuprofen. Alternative medications are therefore usually required.
The typical starting dose of any TCA for the treatment of neuropathic pain is 10 to 25 mg nightly. This can be increased by 10 to 25 mg every 3 to 7 days as tolerated up to a usual maximum of 150 mg nightly. Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) inhibit presynaptic reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine and block cholinergic, adrenergic, histaminergic, and sodium channels. Several TCAs, including amitriptyline, nortriptyline, desipramine, and imipramine, have been studied for the treatment of neuropathic pain. This class of medications has shown positive results in the treatment of painful diabetic neuropathy, postherpetic neuralgia (PHN), painful polyneuropathy, and postmastectomy pain
Conditions for use. Dosage. The usual dose of Amitriptyline for pain management is between 10 mg to 150 mg, normally given at bedtime. The health care provider generally starts on a lower dose. In general, it may take up to 2 weeks or more for the patient to start feeling better
Antidepressants. The tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, are the “gold standard” for neuropathic pain as they are the most effective and best-known drugs for this condition. They can also be useful for chronic nociceptive pain, especially if there is a neuropathic component to it. Drug therapy. Conventional painkillers such as codeine and ibuprofen are used for nociceptive pain. They are often not effective for neuropathic pain. Most of the drugs used for the relief of neuropathic pain were originally developed to treat different conditions. For instance, amitriptyline is an antidepressant drug but is now probably used more commonly for pain than for its original use
NORTRIPTYLINE Nortriptyline is FDA approved for treatment of symptoms of depression. It is also a useful treatment for chronic neuropathic pain. Your prescription will be given in generic form, so that the cost will be less than that of the brand name. The medicine comes in 25, 50, and 100 mg tablets. The maximum dose is 150 mg per day but lower doses help may people. 
This leaflet is about the use of amitriptyline for the treatment of neuropathic pain (pain caused by nerve damage). This leaflet has been written specifically for parents and carers about the use of this medicine in children. The information may differ from that provided by the manufacturer. 1 Amitriptyline is also used to treat depression but this is at a higher dose than used to treat neuropathic pain. 2  The drug works in different ways at different doses. 3  If your child has liquid medicine, keep a note of which strength they have, and make sure you are given the right one.