Set your cover and profile photo. Profile Photo: Use a logo that people associate with your business. Small business owners: Learn how to make the best profile picture for Facebook! Cover Photo: Use a photo that captures the essence of your brand and showcases your product or service. Learn how to make a great cover photo for $15! Highlight updates – take advantage of the full width of the page. Highlight a post with a great iconic photo, or an important post. Claim your vanity URL at facebook.com/username. A username makes it easier to communicate your Facebook Page address everywhere – business cards, menu, email signature etc.
Promote your Facebook page. If you have a Facebook page, promote it throughout your business so that your social media works hand-in-hand with more traditional marketing methods. Provide your Facebook address on your letterhead, business card and website, in store, in advertisements, and in your email signature. 
19 Essential Facebook Fan Page Tips 1) Don't create a dummy account for your business page. I've heard of so many people creating dummy personal accounts (like Holly HubSpot) in order to create their Facebook Business Page (like HubSpot). 
Remember: Your recipe for success is to create Page posts and ads that are interesting and valuable to your customers—and to target your messages so the right people see them. Learn how to create engaging posts on your Facebook Page. If you’re looking for a general overview of how to use Facebook to help your business grow, these fundamentals will set you up for success. You can also focus your activity on Facebook to meet specific business goals.
- See more samples and our written guide on how to make a facebook profile. Feel free to check out our Facebook profile here: https://www.facebook.com/SoldWithVideo. Creating a professional Facebook page for your business is a great way to build your brand and connect with your clients, fans, and audience. You can design cool profiles, colorful profiles or professional profiles in this new timeline Facebook profile design.
Facebook can help you reach all the people who matter most to your business. If you’re looking for a general overview of how to use Facebook to help your business grow, these fundamentals will set you up for success. You can also focus your activity on Facebook to meet specific business goals.
Use Photo’s/ Video’s. To get the most engagement out of your posts on your Facebook Business Page you will need to use photo’s and video’s. Posts with either a photo or video receive 50% more engagement than those without the use of images or video’s. Check your Mail. 
Remember: your Page is an extension of your business. It’s an easy way to share updates and more with the people who matter most. It’s ready to help you engage your customers on desktop and on mobile. Learn how to create a Facebook Page. If you’re looking for a general overview of how to use Facebook to help your business grow, these fundamentals will set you up for success. You can also focus your activity on Facebook to meet specific business goals.
2. Use the Space Given Wisely. Facebook gives you space which can leave a lasting impression on your Page visitors. Make sure to pay close attention to your Cover image, Profile image and About section. 1  Cover image size: 851 pixels by 315 pixels and may not include more than 20% text. 3. Your Cover image is prime real estate on your Facebook Page and it’s the first thing your Page visitors will notice. Your Cover image should express who you are as a business and your Page visitors should understand what your business is about at a glance.
Josh, I'll have to check out the book! Jody, just link back to your site. Hopefully you have analytics set up for your website, which it make it easier for you to track how many people clicked on that link from Facebook--helping you understand how important your Facebook business page is for your company. You can add your Business Page as a Favorite item here -- similar to bookmarking a web page in your web browser -- for easy access. Reach More People Facebook will prompt you to create an advertisement to draw attention to your Page.