Candidiasis is an infection caused by a yeast-like fungus called Candida albicans. It can infect the mouth, vagina, skin, stomach, and urinary tract.
A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women.
Oral thrush and other candida infections can occur when your immune system is weakened by disease or by drugs such as prednisone, or when antibiotics disturb the natural balance of microorganisms in your body. These diseases and conditions may make you more susceptible to oral thrush infection: 1  HIV/AIDS.
Candida infections, also called candidiasis, are often referred to as yeast or fungal infections. When they occur in the mouth and throat, Candida infections are called thrush. The most common sites of infection include the mouth and throat, the genitals, and moist skin folds.
But certain medicines and health problems can cause more yeast to grow, particularly in warm, moist body areas. This can cause uncomfortable and sometimes dangerous symptoms. There are several types of candidiasis 1  : If it is in the mouth or throat, it is called oral candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis, or thrush.
Vaginal candidiasis is an infection of the vagina involving overgrowth of a yeast, or fungus, known as Candida. This yeast is normally present in the mouth, gut and vagina, as are a number of other organisms.
Photomicrograph of the fungus Candida albicans. Candidiasis is a fungal infection caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. There are over 20 species of Candida yeasts that can cause infection in humans, the most common of which i
Candidiasis is an infection caused by a group of yeasts. There are more than 20 species of Candida, the most common being Candida albicans. These fungi live on all surfaces of our bodies. Under certain conditions, they can become so numerous they cause infections, particularly in warm and moist areas.