From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is a federal agency that administers and enforces civil rights laws against workplace discrimination. In 2012, the Commission expanded protection provided by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to transgender status and gender identity. In 2015, it concluded that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 doesn't allow sexual orientation discrimination in employment because it is a form of sex discrimination.
Introduction. EEOC was created in the historic Civil Rights Act of 1964. This Act was an omnibus bill addressing not only discrimination in employment, but also discrimination in voting, public accommodations, and education as well. We have talked long enough in this country about civil rights. It is time to write the next chapter and to write it in the books of law. . . . No eulogy could more eloquently honor President Kennedy's memory than the earliest possible passage of the civil rights bill for which he fought so long.
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 also creates the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), a five-member, bipartisan commission whose mission is to eliminate unlawful employment discrimination. Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972. In its fourth attempt to improve Title VII's effectiveness since its enactment in 1964, Congress amends Title VII by approving the
Talk to a Lawyer. Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is an agency of the federal government, created by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VII). The purpose of the EEOC is to interpret and enforce federal laws prohibiting discrimination. 1 The Equal Pay Act. 2  The Equal Pay Act requires employers to pay men and women equally for doing equal work. 3  Because the Equal Pay Act was passed before the Civil Rights Act of 1964 created the EEOC, it was originally enforced by the federal Department of Labor.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), U.S. agency created in 1964 to end discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin in employment and to promote programs to make equal employment opportunity a reality. 
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson, created the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as an enforcement authority for civil rights laws for private sector and public sector employers and employees. 1 U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 2  U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission: No-Cost Outreach Programs. 3  U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission: 1965-1971 -- A Toothless Tiger Helps Shape the Law and Educate the Public.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was created by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, but its mission has been shaped by more than this one single piece of legislation. Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972. In its fourth attempt to improve Title VII's effectiveness since its enactment in 1964, Congress amends Title VII by approving the
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) enforces federal laws prohibiting workplace discrimination. The EEOC was created by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Today, the EEOC enforces federal anti-discrimination statutes, and provides oversight and coordination of all federal equal opportunity regulations, policies, and practices. The Civil Rights movement of the early 1960s peaked in the spring and summer of 1963.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is a government entity with the aim to eliminate discrimination from America’s workplaces. The EEOC was created by the Civil Rights Act, but was given only limited power to punish violating employers. However, in 1972, Congress gave the EEOC the authority to sue employers.