The radiation one typically encounters is one of four types: alpha radiation, beta radiation, gamma radiation, and x radiation. Neutron radiation is also encountered in nuclear power plants and high-altitude flight and emitted from some industrial radioactive sources. 1 Alpha Radiation. 2  Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 3  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 4  Examples of some alpha emitters: radium, radon, uranium, thorium.
1 Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 2  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 3  Examples of some alpha emitters: radium, radon, uranium, thorium. 4  Most alpha radiation is not able to penetrate human skin. 1 Alpha Radiation. 2  Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 3  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 4  Examples of some alpha emitters: radium, radon, uranium, thorium.
1 Gamma radiation and x rays are highly penetrating electromagnetic radiation. 2  Some characteristics of these radiations are: 3  Examples of some gamma emitters: iodine-131, cesium-137, cobalt-60, radium-226, and technetium-99m. 4  Gamma radiation or x rays are able to travel many feet in air and many inches in human tissue. 1 Alpha Radiation. 2  Alpha radiation is a heavy, very short-range particle and is actually an ejected helium nucleus. 3  Some characteristics of alpha radiation are: 4  Examples of some alpha emitters: radium, radon, uranium, thorium.
Alpha Radiation. Alpha radiation is heavy, very short-range and is an ejected nuclei. Characteristics of alpha radiation are: 1  Does not penetrate human skin or clothing and is not an external hazard. 2  Can be harmful to humans if the materials are inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through open wounds. 3  Thin-window Geiger-Mueller (GM) probe can detect the presence of alpha radiation
Alpha particles consist of two protons and two neutrons bound together into a particle identical to a helium nucleus. They are generally produced in the process of alpha decay, but may also be produced in other ways. Alpha particles are named after the first letter in the Greek alphabet, α. The symbol for the alpha particle is α or α 2+ . Because they are identical to helium nuclei, they are also sometimes written as He2+ or 4 2He2+ indicating a helium ion with a +2 charge (missing its two electrons).
Alpha Particles. Alpha decay is a radioactive process in which a particle with two neutrons and two protons is ejected from the nucleus of a radioactive atom. The particle is identical to the nucleus of a helium atom. Alpha decay only occurs in very heavy elements such as uranium, thorium and radium. After an atom ejects an alpha particle, a new parent atom is formed which has two less neutrons and two less protons. Thus, when uranium-238 (which has a Z of 92) decays by alpha emission, thorium-234 is created (which has a Z of 90). Because alpha particles contain two protons, they have a positive charge of two.
2.Penetrating power. There are various types of radiation, including alpha rays, beta rays, and gamma rays. The penetrating power of the radiation depends on what type of radiation it is. X-rays are another type of radiation. 