It is also used with aspirin to treat new/worsening chest pain (new heart attack, unstable angina) and to keep blood vessels open and prevent blood clots after certain procedures (such as cardiac stent). Clopidogrel works by blocking platelets from sticking together and prevents them from forming harmful clots. A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.
Clopidogrel is used to prevent blood clots after a recent heart attack or stroke, and in people with certain disorders of the heart or blood vessels. Clopidogrel may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Pharma Companies. If you are Pharmaceutical manufacturer, contract manufacturer, machine manufacturer, bulk drug manufacturer or provide facility like pharmaceutical product printing, packaging and consulting then dawabazar.in is a perfect place to promote your business with your brand/products/services. This website also provides many findings on medicines, Pharma companies ,Pharma dealers, Pharma retailers, active pharmaceutical ingredients, therapeutic index and pharmacological index which is useful for doctors, medical students and common person.
1 What Clopidogrel tablets are and what they are used for. Clopidogrel tablets belong to a group of medicines called antiplatelet medicinal products. Platelets are very small structures in the blood, which clump together during blood clotting. By preventing this clumping, antiplatelet medicinal products reduce the chances of blood clots forming (a process called thrombosis). You should check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. If you have experienced severe chest pain (unstable angina or heart attack), your doctor may give you 300 mg of Clopidogrel (1 tablet of 300 mg or 4 tablets of 75 mg) once at the start of treatment.
Clopidogrel Winthrop is taken to prevent blood clots (thrombi) forming in hardened blood vessels (arteries), a process known as atherothrombosis, which can lead to atherothrombotic events (such as stroke, heart attack, or death). Clopidogrel Winthrop belongs to a group of medicines called antiplatelet medicinal products. Platelets are very small structures in the blood which clump together during blood clotting. By preventing this clumping, antiplatelet medicinal products reduce the chances of blood clots forming (a process called thrombosis).
OTHER USES: This section contains uses of this drug that are not listed in the approved professional labeling for the drug but that may be prescribed by your health care professional. Use this drug for a condition that is listed in this section only if it has been so prescribed by your health care professional. A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.
Zentiva launch Clopiwin Plus 75/75 tablets (clopidogrel/ aspirin). Zentiva, a Sanofi company, is pleased to announce the launch of Clopiwin Plus 75/75 tablets as of 11 February 2015. For full prescribing information please consult the registered Package insert. Clopiwin Plus 75/75 tablets will be available through UTi Pharma, (Click here or on the UTi Pharma logo to order). S3 Clopiwin Plus 75/75 film-coated tablets. Each film-tablet contains clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate (form II) equivalent to 75 mg of clopidogrel base and 75 mg acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) (aspirin). Reg No. 44/8.2/0657. MARKETED BY Zentiva (legal entity-Winthrop Pharmaceutical (Pty), Ltd.
Clopidogrel is used to prevent myocardial infarction (heart attack) and stroke in people who are at high risk of these events, including those with a history of myocardial infarction and other forms of acute coronary syndrome, stroke, and those with peripheral artery disease. Clopidogrel (INN) is an oral, thienopyridine-class antiplatelet agent used to inhibit blood clots in coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, and to prevent myocardial infarction (heart attack). It is marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi under the trade name Plavix.
Clopidogrel Winthrop is used to prevent problems caused by blood clots in adults who have: events such as a heart attack or stroke, cannot take vitamin K antagonists (other medicines that prevent blood clots) and are at low risk of bleeding. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. Clopidogrel Winthrop belongs to a group of medicines called antiplatelet medicinal products. Platelets are very small structures in the blood which clump together during blood clotting. By preventing this clumping, antiplatelet medicinal products reduce the chances of blood clots forming (a process called thrombosis).