For example, smaller states like Vermont and Delaware have one representative while large states like California have 53 representatives. Currently, the Michigan Congressional Delegation is composed of 14 representatives in the House and two Senators in the U.S. Senate. Oftentimes, people have questions about how Congress works. To help answer those questions, I have put together a list of Frequently Asked Questions about the U.S. Congress. If your question is not answered here, please feel free to contact me.
Another important part of a senator’s job is to help people in their state who have a problem with the federal government. For example, if you are having a problem getting your passport to take a vacation outside of the United States, Senator Corker’s office can work to make sure you get it in time for your trip. United States senators are elected by the people who live in their state. Usually, there are at least two people, or “candidates,” who are competing against each other to have the job of senator. The candidate who gets the most votes becomes the senator
Capitol Hill is where the United States Capitol Building is located in Washington, D.C. The United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives have met in the Capitol Building since 1800. United States senators are elected by the people who live in their state. Usually, there are at least two people, or “candidates,” who are competing against each other to have the job of senator. The candidate who gets the most votes becomes the senator
The United States Senate is a legislative chamber in the bicameral legislature of the United States, and together with the U.S. House of Representatives makes up the U.S. Congress. First convened in 1789, the composition and powers of the Senate are established in Article One of the U.S. Constitution. The Vice President of the United States is the ex officio President of the Senate, with authority to preside over the Senate's sessions, although he can vote only to break a tie. For decades the task of presiding over Senate sessions was one of the vice president's principal duties.
To serve in the Maryland Senate, a person must be a citizen of Maryland 25 years of age or older. Elections for the 47 Senate seats are held every four years coincident with the federal election in which the President of the United States is not elected. Vacancies are filled through appointment by the Governor. The Maryland Senate, sometimes referred to as the Maryland State Senate, is the upper house of the General Assembly, the state legislature of the U.S. state of Maryland.
Each senator has an office in Washington, D.C., and offices in his or her home state. Senator Corker has an office in the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington and six offices in Tennessee: in Chattanooga, Jackson, Knoxville, Memphis, Nashville, and the Tri-Cities. United States senators are elected by the people who live in their state. Usually, there are at least two people, or “candidates,” who are competing against each other to have the job of senator. The candidate who gets the most votes becomes the senator
The Senate is comprised of 40 members, with each Senator elected to represent a district consisting of approximately 159,000 people. As required by the Massachusetts Constitution, the Senate meets every 72 hours, year-round in either formal or informal session to consider legislation. The Massachusetts Senate is led by the President of the Senate who is elected by the members of the body at the beginning of each two-year legislative session. The Massachusetts Legislature, known as the General Court, has been meeting since 1713. Senate Chamber.