Indonesian phrasebook. Indonesian (Indonesian: Bahasa Indonesia) is the official language and lingua franca of Indonesia, and also widely spoken in East Timor. With over 230 million speakers, there are a lot of people to talk to in Indonesian. 
This term is occasionally found in English. Additionally, English in sometimes use Malay-Indonesian to refer collectively to the standardized language of Indonesia (Bahasa Indonesia) and the Malay of Malaysia, Brunei, and Singapore (Bahasa Melayu). It is a standardized register of Malay, an Austronesian language that has been used as a lingua franca in the Indonesian archipelago for centuries. Most Indonesians also speak one of more than 700 indigenous languages.
Most belong to the Austronesian language family, with a few Papuan languages also spoken. The official language is Indonesian (locally known as Bahasa Indonesia), a variant of Malay, which was used in the archipelago, — borrowing heavily from local languages of Indonesia such as Javanese, Sundanese and Minangkabau. Since Indonesia only recognises a single official language, other languages are not recognised either at the national level or the regional level, thus making Javanese the most widely spoken language without official status, and Sundanese the second in the list (excluding Chinese dialects).
Bahasa Indonesia is the correct term for the Indonesian language. At times foreigners may refer to it as only Bahasa, but the word Bahasa simply means language. 
The importance of the Indonesian language to the country’s unity cannot be underestimated. In a country where literally hundreds of languages coexist, Indonesian serves as an essential common language throughout the archipelago. It is used in government, schools, business, and popular culture throughout Indonesia. Of the several hundred languages spoken throughout Indonesia, the Bahasa Indonesian language is the most prominent. The majority of the languages in Indonesia share Austronesian language family roots, although there are exceptions.
Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia [baˈhasa indoneˈsia]) is the official language of Indonesia. It is a standardized register of Malay, an Austronesian language that has been used as a lingua franca in the Indonesian archipelago for centuries. Most Indonesians also speak one of more than 700 indigenous languages.
The Indonesian language is primarily used in commerce, administration, education and the media, but most Indonesians speak other languages, such as Javanese, as their first language. Most books printed in Indonesia are written in the Indonesian language. Since Indonesia only recognises a single official language, other languages are not recognised either at the national level or the regional level, thus making Javanese the most widely spoken language without official status, and Sundanese the second in the list (excluding Chinese dialects).
It is a second language for another 140 million people (Ethnologue). Most Indonesians are bilingual, and many are proficient, to varying degrees, in three or four languages. They learn at least one of the country’s many local languages at home, and later learn Indonesian in school. Indonesian (Bahasa Indonesia ‘language of Indonesia’) is a member of the Malayo-Polynesian branch of the Austronesian language family.
History. The Indonesian language is an Austronesian language, and is part of the Malay language branch of this language family. It originated as a separate language as the Riau dialect of Malay. It is a language that was spoken in Northeast Sumatra for five hundred years
The Indonesian language has an extremely important role in the Republic of Indonesia, where it serves as the official national language and acts as a unifying force as the common tool of communication in a country where hundreds of languages coexist. Of the several hundred languages spoken throughout Indonesia, the Bahasa Indonesian language is the most prominent. The majority of the languages in Indonesia share Austronesian language family roots, although there are exceptions.