Staphylococcal infections are a group of infections caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus. You may have heard them referred to as staph infections. Staph bacteria can cause a wide range of infections, from relatively minor skin infections such as boils, to more serious infections of the blood, lungs and heart. There are many types of Staphylococci, but most infections are caused by a group called Staphylococcus aureus. Examples are given below. Skin and soft tissue infections. Most infections caused by staph bacteria are relatively minor and only affect the skin or underlying tissue. Common examples include: 1  boils – red, painful lumps on the skin that usually develop on the neck, face, armpit or buttocks.
Over 30 different types of staphylococci can infect humans, but most infections are caused by Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococci can be found normally in the nose and on the skin (and less commonly in other locations) of around 25%-30% of healthy adults and in 25% of hospital workers. Staphylococcus is a group of bacteria that can cause a number of diseases as a result of infection of various tissues of the body. Staphylococcus is more familiarly known as staph (pronounced staff).
A staph infection is caused by a Staphylococcus (or staph) bacteria. Actually, about 25% of people normally carry staph in the nose, mouth, genitals, or anal area, and don’t have symptoms of an infection. The foot is also very prone to picking up bacteria from the floor. The infection often begins with a little cut, which gets infected with bacteria.
This group of bacteria includes meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) , which is resistant to certain antibiotics that are commonly used for staph infections, such as flucloxacillin. Examples are given below. Skin and soft tissue infections. Most infections caused by staph bacteria are relatively minor and only affect the skin or underlying tissue. Common examples include: 1  boils – red, painful lumps on the skin that usually develop on the neck, face, armpit or buttocks.
Skin infections. Skin infections caused by staph bacteria include: Boils. The most common type of staph infection is the boil, a pocket of pus that develops in a hair follicle or oil gland. The skin over the infected area usually becomes red and swollen. If a boil breaks open, it will probably drain pus. 
Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive coccal bacterium that is a member of the Firmicutes, and is frequently found in the respiratory tract and on the skin forms where perspiration is present. It is often positive for catalase and nitrate reduction. S. aureus is the most common species of Staphylococcus to cause Staph infections and is a successful pathogen due to a combination of nasal carriage and bacterial immunoevasive strategies.
S. aureus is responsible for many infections, but it may also occur as a commensal. The presence of S. aureus does not always indicate infection. It can survive from hours to weeks, or even months, on dry environmental surfaces, depending on strain. S. aureus is the most common species of Staphylococcus to cause Staph infections and is a successful pathogen due to a combination of nasal carriage and bacterial immunoevasive strategies.
S. aureus can cause a range of illnesses, from minor skin infections, such as pimples, impetigo, boils, cellulitis, folliculitis, carbuncles, scalded skin syndrome, and abscesses, to life-threatening diseases such as pneumonia, meningitis, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, toxic shock syndrome, bacteremia, and sepsis. S. aureus is the most common species of Staphylococcus to cause Staph infections and is a successful pathogen due to a combination of nasal carriage and bacterial immunoevasive strategies.
Although S. aureus is not always pathogenic, it is a common cause of skin infections such as abscesses, respiratory infections such as sinusitis, and food poisoning. Pathogenic strains often promote infections by producing potent protein toxins, and expressing cell-surface proteins that bind and inactivate antibodies. S. aureus is the most common species of Staphylococcus to cause Staph infections and is a successful pathogen due to a combination of nasal carriage and bacterial immunoevasive strategies.