The Terracotta Army was discovered on 29 March 1974 to the east of Xi'an in Shaanxi province by farmers digging a water well approximately 1.6 kilometres (0.99 mi) east of the Qin Emperor's tomb mound at Mount Li (Lishan), a region riddled with underground springs and watercourses. Estimates from 2007 were that the three pits containing the Terracotta Army held more than 8,000 soldiers, 130 chariots with 520 horses and 150 cavalry horses, the majority of which remained buried in the pits nearby Qin Shi Huang's mausoleum.
The first part of the Terracotta Army site to be discovered was named Vault One. In 1976, two other vaults were uncovered about 20 meters away, and were named Vault Two and Vault Three. The tomb is a treasury for the Chinese people and for the whole world. History-How They Were Discovered. The Terracotta Army figures’ excavation is regarded as one of the greatest discoveries of the 20th century. It had lain underground for more than 2000 years before farmers digging a well in 1974 uncovered what is now considered one of the greatest archaeological sites in the world.
comments. Excavations in China have unearthed a stunning new collection of 2,000-year-old terracotta warriors and hundreds of other artefacts. Archaeologists unveiled 120 new terracotta warriors yesterday at the Qin Shihuang Unesco World Heritage site in Shaanxi province
The Terracotta Army is one of the top attractions in China. It is significant because the hundreds of detailed life-size models represent the army that triumphed over all other Chinese armies in the Warring States Period, and who ushered in the united imperial China era 2,200 years ago. History-How They Were Discovered. The Terracotta Army figures’ excavation is regarded as one of the greatest discoveries of the 20th century. It had lain underground for more than 2000 years before farmers digging a well in 1974 uncovered what is now considered one of the greatest archaeological sites in the world.
China's terracotta army has new recruits: 1,400 more clay warriors, horses and chariots found buried near emperor's tomb. 1  Archaeologists are beginning a new excavation to look for clay warriors in pit number two close to the tomb of China's first emperor Qin Shihaung. They have watched over the tomb of China's first emperor for more than 2,000 years, but it appears the terracotta army is about to swell in size. New excavations close to the mausoleum of Emperor Qin Shihaung, who founded the Qin Dynasty in 221BC, have revealed nearly 1,400 of the life size clay statutes.
In a chance discovery, an entire army of terracotta warriors is found. The first emperor of China had them created and buried with him, to protect him in the afterlife. A group of them is coming to National Geographic Museum in November 2009. See All National Geographic Videos http://video.nationalgeographic.com/v... 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Terracotta Army or the Terracotta Warriors and Horses is a collection of terracotta sculptures depicting the armies of Qin Shi Huang, the first Emperor of China. Estimates from 2007 were that the three pits containing the Terracotta Army held more than 8,000 soldiers, 130 chariots with 520 horses and 150 cavalry horses, the majority of which remained buried in the pits nearby Qin Shi Huang's mausoleum.
Chinese workers digging a well in 1974 made a startling discovery: thousands of life-size terracotta figures of an army prepared for battle. Now called the Terracotta Army or Terracotta Warriors, the figures are located in three pits near the city of X'ian in China's Shaanxi province. 
More than 6,000 terracotta warriors were unearthed in the enormous main pit (shown above), along with horses and weapons, less than a mile east of the tomb of China's first emperor Quin Shihuang in Xi'an. Cross bows found in the pits also had sophisticated trigger mechanism. They have watched over the tomb of China's first emperor for more than 2,000 years, but it appears the terracotta army is about to swell in size. New excavations close to the mausoleum of Emperor Qin Shihaung, who founded the Qin Dynasty in 221BC, have revealed nearly 1,400 of the life size clay statutes.