Often called the diamond of the culinary world, a truffle is a rare, edible mushroom that is considered to be a delicacy due to its intense aroma and characteristic flavor. They have a firm texture and are most often shaven on top of food before serving, although they can also be used to infuse flavor into dishes. anon64403 - nope. chocolate truffles have nothing to do with the real truffle. the former is just a round piece of chocolate with some kind of filling (usually a ganache) -- usually nothing mushroomy about it. the latter is a mushroom -- usually nothing chocolate-y about it.
A truffle is the fruiting body of an underground mushroom. Its spores are dispersed by fungivores, animals that eat fungi. Almost all truffles are found in close association with trees. There are hundreds of species of truffles that are big, but the fruiting body of some (mostly in the genus 'Tuber') are highly prized as a food. The 18th-century French gastronome Brillat-Savarin called these truffles the diamond of the kitchen.
A chocolate truffle is a type of chocolate confectionery, traditionally made with a chocolate ganache centre coated in chocolate, cocoa powder or chopped toasted nuts (typically hazelnuts, almonds or coconut), usually in a spherical, conical, or curved shape. 1 The French truffle is made with fresh cream and chocolate and then rolled into cocoa or nut powder. 2  The Belgian truffle or praline is made with dark or milk chocolate filled with ganache, buttercream or nut pastes.
1 The European truffle is made with syrup and a base made up of cocoa powder, milk powder, fats, and other such ingredients to create an oil-in-water type emulsion. 2  The vegan truffle can have any shape or flavor, but is adapted to vegan diets by replacing dairy with nut milks and butters. 1 The French truffle is made with fresh cream and chocolate and then rolled into cocoa or nut powder. 2  The Belgian truffle or praline is made with dark or milk chocolate filled with ganache, buttercream or nut pastes.
Truffles are a kind of subterranean fungi, meaning they are a mushroom that grows underground. Most commonly found in Europe, Asia, North American, and North Africa, truffles tend to grow in forested areas around the base of trees. While all truffles have an earthy flavor, each kind has its own distinct taste and fragrance; white truffles have a creamier taste, while black truffle are known for their woody notes. If you are interested in experimenting with truffles, you should consider picking up a bottle of truffle oil.
Please try again later. http://www.FineGourmetFoods.com-The word truffles or truffle can be used to refer to a range of things; most notably they relate to the Tuber (genus) which is the edible truffle which is usually inferred when the phrase truffle is used in relation to food. But what exactly is a truffle?
Truffles are harvested in Europe with the aid of female pigs or truffle dogs, which are able to detect the strong smell of mature truffles underneath the surface of the ground. The female pig becomes excited when she sniffs a chemical that is similar to the male swine sex attractant. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Truffle butter is butter that has been infused with tiny pieces of truffles, the fruiting bodies of fungi in the genus Tuber. Many people associate it with French cuisine, where it plays a very large role, but it also appears in foods from other parts of Europe, especially Italy. 
A truffle is the fruiting body of a subterranean Ascomycete fungus, predominantly one of the many species of the genus Tuber. Truffle oil is used as a lower-cost and convenient substitute for truffles, to provide flavoring, or to enhance the flavor and aroma of truffles in cooking. Most truffle oil, however, does not contain any truffles.