1 Add salmon, turning to coat well. 2  Let the salmon marinate while you preheat the George Foreman (or any indoor contact) grill. 3  Place the salmon on George Foreman grill. 4  Cook 3-8 minutes. 5  The cooking time will depend on the thickness of the salmon. 
When cooking on your George Foreman grill, you want to make sure to account for the cut in cooking time so you don't overcook or burn your food. As a general rule of thumb, anything besides poultry will cook in less than ten minutes. 
Step 1. Choose a salmon fillet or steak that is between 1/2 inch and 1 inch thick. Season and/or marinate the salmon filet or steak as desired. Preheat the grill to medium and place the salmon on the grill. Allow it to cook for two to three minutes per 1/2 inch thickness. In a large bowl, whip one can of pink salmon with two eggs. Mix well with 1/4 cup of flour, one medium-sized chopped onion and a pinch of salt and pepper. Mold about 2 tbsp. of the mixture into a pattie, and repeat to make three more. Preheat the grill to medium and place the salmon patties
How to cook salmon on a George Foreman Grill; get expert tips for homemade recipes in this free cooking video. Expert: Brandon Sarkis. Bio: Brandon Sarkis has been a professional chef for more than 12 years, and he has worked in Austin, Texas, Columbus, Ohio, and Atlanta, Ga. Filmmaker: brandon sarkis. 
Grilling salmon on your George Foreman Grill is very easy and can be done with a minimum of ingredients. A basic salmon filet should be approximately 4 oz and 3/4″ thick. Of course, sizes of filets sizes may vary depending on what is available from your local grocer, but for best results on the Foreman Grill, 3/4″ to 1″ thickness will be your best bet. Overall, have fun making salmon on your Foreman Grill. It’s low-fat, can be low-sodium if desired, and is of course, delicious. Ingredients: 1  2 – 4oz salmon filets of 3/4″ thick (no more than 1″ thick for easiest grilling).
How long do i need to grill a salmon burger on a george foreman grill (it is about 3/4 to 1 inch thick). Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. 
Things to Cook on a George Foreman Grill. ... Marinate salmon fillets and grill four to six minutes. Marinated salmon steaks grill... 1  Cooking Chicken On The George Foreman Grill. 
Directions. 1  Preheat the Foreman grill. 2  Mix the olive oil and garlic in a bowl. 3  Put the salmon in the mixture, making sure both sides get covered. 4  Spray Pam on the foreman to help prevent sticking. 5  Grill the Salmon for 8-10 minutes, until flakey. 
Recipe Directions: Spray grill with cooking spray of your choice and preheat for at least 5 minutes with the lid closed. If you have temperature settings, medium/high will be the optimal setting. If you don’t have cooking spray, a light brushing of olive oil will do. Overall, have fun making salmon on your Foreman Grill. It’s low-fat, can be low-sodium if desired, and is of course, delicious. Ingredients: 1  2 – 4oz salmon filets of 3/4″ thick (no more than 1″ thick for easiest grilling).