Wild yam root is available as a tincture, liquid extract, powder extract, or in tablet or capsule form. The common dosage for this supplement is 2-3 mL (40-100 drops) of the tincture three to four times a day. The capsules or tablets may be taken in a dosage of one or two taken three times per day.
The root and the bulb of the plant are used as a source of diosgenin, which is prepared as an “extract,” a liquid that contains concentrated diosgenin. There are over 600 species of wild yam. Some species are grown specifically as a source of diosgenin for laboratories to use in making steroids.
Wild yam root contains a compound called Diosgenin, which is used in birth control pills and other steroid hormones. This supports the idea that wild yam may help regulate female sex hormones and it is considered a good herb for many of the symptoms associated with menopause.
Wild yam is a plant. It contains a chemical, diosgenin, which can be made in the laboratory into various steroids, such as estrogen and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). The root and the bulb of the plant are used as a source of diosgenin, which is prepared as an “extract,” a liquid that contains concentrated diosgenin.
Wild yam extract was used to create one of the first birth-control pills. Photo Credit Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Wild yam, also known as colic root or Dioscorea villosa, is a tuberous vine that is native to both China and North America. Although each locale grows a different species of wild yam, both species contain diosgenin, the active ingredient in the plant.
How to Use: Wild Yam. Wild yam root is a potent source of diosgenin, a chemical that resembles female sex hormones and was used in the manufacture of the first oral contraceptives. Diosgenin can be transformed in the laboratory into sex steroids and corticosteroids, but research is still very sketchy on the effectiveness of this herb.
The plant was also known as colic root, devil's bones, and rheumatism root, which provides clues as to some of its traditional medicinal qualities. Today, wild yam extract is used throughout the world for a variety of medicinal uses.