During an investor call with Wall Street analysts in January, Chipotle co-CEO Monty Moran said average wages are at $9 an hour, and that a move to $10 would have an effect,  but not too significant .. That wage range already is higher than $7.25, the current, hourly federal minimum wage. A Chipotle spokesman declined to offer further wage details beyond the investor call. Restaurant analyst Anderson said a wage increase to the $10 to $12 level would likely start to have a ripple effect on Chipotle's business. Over time, Chipotle may consider self-service kiosks to offset labor costs, he said.
That said, according to Salary.com, the median expected salary for a retail franchise manager in the U.S. is $95,764 per year. At Chipotle, entry-level employees make around $21,000 including benefits and two weeks of paid vacation, CBS Los Angeles reports. One employee interviewed by the network, Lidia Castillo, said she worked her way up from a service manager all the way to restaurateur (Chipotle's title for a general manager) within a year, a position with an average salary of $99,000 annually.
During an investor call with Wall Street analysts in January, Chipotle co-CEO Monty Moran said average wages are at $9 an hour, and that a move to $10 would have an effect,  but not too significant .. That wage range already is higher than $7.25, the current, hourly federal minimum wage. Recent efforts to raise the federal minimum to $10.10 an hour have been stymied. A Chipotle spokesman declined to offer further wage details beyond the investor call. Restaurant analyst Anderson said a wage increase to the $10 to $12 level would likely start to have a ripple effect on Chipotle's business. Over time, Chipotle may consider self-service kiosks to offset labor costs, he said.
The average hourly pay for part-time and full-time associates combined is around $11.81 an hour, and around $12.83 hourly for full-time associates. We're not a minimum wage payer, Buchanan said. Roughly 75 percent of Walmart store managers started as hourly workers, and store managers earn about $150,000 annually. A Chipotle spokesman declined to offer further wage details beyond the investor call. Restaurant analyst Anderson said a wage increase to the $10 to $12 level would likely start to have a ripple effect on Chipotle's business. Over time, Chipotle may consider self-service kiosks to offset labor costs, he said.
Other businesses, big and small, which object to wage increases, say higher pay will mean higher prices, and less work for fewer workers. When you're talking about a $10 and $15 minimum wage, that has the potential to increase our labor costs 10 to 20 percent, says Don Davey, a representative for F irehouse Subs. A Chipotle spokesman declined to offer further wage details beyond the investor call. Restaurant analyst Anderson said a wage increase to the $10 to $12 level would likely start to have a ripple effect on Chipotle's business. Over time, Chipotle may consider self-service kiosks to offset labor costs, he said.
Less than one percent of the retailer's staff excluding managers-or about 5,000 workers-make minimum wage. The average hourly pay for part-time and full-time associates combined is around $11.81 an hour, and around $12.83 hourly for full-time associates. We're not a minimum wage payer, Buchanan said. A Chipotle spokesman declined to offer further wage details beyond the investor call. Restaurant analyst Anderson said a wage increase to the $10 to $12 level would likely start to have a ripple effect on Chipotle's business. Over time, Chipotle may consider self-service kiosks to offset labor costs, he said.
Average Chipotle Mexican Grill hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.75 per hour for Team Leader to $21.00 per hour for General Manager. The average Chipotle Mexican Grill salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Assembler to $110,000 per year for Marketing.
We already pay above minimum wage and offer benefits that are more than competitive.. Chipotle does indeed give its hourly workers some important benefits, some of which were announced recently in June including paid sick and vacation days and tuition reimbursement. But even its hourly managers only make only $23,775 in pay, according to what's posted on its website (Arnold says this may also be somewhat outdated). Far fewer will make it to Chipotle’s salaried ranks—only 4,590 of its 53,090 employees, or 9%, are salaried.