1 Work with your colleagues to rewrite some of the learning outcomes you have for your students into language your students will understand. 2  Engage your colleagues in a discussion about the strategies they use to help students self-assess the quality of their work. 1 The article Helping Students Understand Assessment from Educational Leadership by Jan Chappuis provides an overview of formative assessment and steps you can take in the classroom to help students assess their own work.
955 SHARES. Self-reflection is self-assessment, and one of the most significant learning tools we can model for our students. Ultimately, we want our children and adolescents to be the self-assessors of their work, dispositions, and goals
Providing affordances for students to self assess their abilities creates the potential for students to become much more aware of their actual performance levels soon enough for them to work toward achieving the needed competencies. Some uses of student self assessment appear below. 
That is,students construct meaning, in part, by self-assessing prior to and duringlearning. Students organize, evaluate, and internalize when learning, andself-assessment is part of that process. They must connect new knowl-edge, understandings, and skills with what they have already stored andused. Student involvement in determining how to self-assess is particu-larly valuable. It enhances student motivation by providing a sense ofownership and responsibility. Engagement also increases intrinsic moti-vation to base performance more on competence and less on rewardsfor performance.
Student Self-Assessment. Assessment is an important part of the learning process for both teachers and learners. When assessing students, teachers have many tools at their disposal. Teachers are not limited, however, to doing the assessment on their own. Students can participate in this process in many ways; student assessment can take the form of self-assessment and peer assessment and both of those can take different forms and serve a variety of purposes.
Students can share their self-assessments with a peer or in a small group, with instructions that they compare their impressions with other criteria such as test scores, teacher evaluations, and peers' opinions. This kind of practice helps students to be aware of their learning. In this kind of reflection, students step back from the learning process to think about their language learning strategies and their progress as language learners. Such self assessment encourages students to become independent learners and can increase their motivation.
Let’s look at the example of “I can” statements: “I can” statements are a type of self-assessment. At the end of a class, chapter, unit, theme, etc., students are asked to complete a certain number of “I can” statements that explain what they feel they are able to do. For example, after a grammar lesson on the past tense, some possible “I can” statements might be: Students can participate in this process in many ways; student assessment can take the form of self-assessment and peer assessment and both of those can take different forms and serve a variety of purposes.
Making self-assessment a success. In order to self-assess effectively, students must have an understanding of the criteria that they gauge their performance against in order to be able to evaluate what makes a piece of work good or poor. 
Involving your students in assessing the quality of their work can give them a clearer sense of the learning outcomes toward which they are working and can motivate them to learn. If your students are to assess the quality of their work, they must be able to answer three questions: 1 The article Helping Students Understand Assessment from Educational Leadership by Jan Chappuis provides an overview of formative assessment and steps you can take in the classroom to help students assess their own work.