I’ll cut straight to the chase and say you shouldn’t bring your puppy home until it’s at least 7 weeks old, with the recommended age universally agreed to be 8 weeks of age. This period declines at about 12 weeks of age and almost completely ends at 14 weeks where fear begins to creep in as a natural trait essential to survival if it lived in the wild. So it’s essential that a puppy is socialized to as many things as possible during the 7 to 12 week period, and 14 weeks at the latest.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. Bringing home a new puppy is truly one of life's joys. Thoughtful pre-puppy preparations and a well-planned first 24 hours can give your fuzzy bundle of promise a head start and make your dreams of the perfect family dog come true.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You should pick up your puppy anywhere from 8 weeks up. I would not trust a breeder that let you take a pup home any younger than that, as it is illegal to sell a pup under this age. Stay away from anybody that offers to sell you a pup that is younger than 8 weeks old-it is completely unethical. Training can begin from the day you bring the pup come but don't expect too much for a couple of months. Their attention spans at such a young age are very short.
Ideally, the age to bring home a puppy is when he’s between seven and twelve weeks old. This is considered the critical socialization period in a puppy’s life, the time when he learns the most about his environment and begins to adjust to his surroundings. 
If a breeder tries to convince you to take the puppy home before 8 weeks, it’s usually for selfish reasons such as financial savings and not wishing to invest time into care and socialization. So be very suspicious of the breeder if this is their wish. This period declines at about 12 weeks of age and almost completely ends at 14 weeks where fear begins to creep in as a natural trait essential to survival if it lived in the wild. So it’s essential that a puppy is socialized to as many things as possible during the 7 to 12 week period, and 14 weeks at the latest.
Best age is between 8-12 weeks. Even though the puppies might be weaned at 5-6 weeks, they are still learning important social skills from their mother and litter mates and taking a puppy before it's 8 weeks old can result in later behavioural problems. Good question. 8 weeks is the youngest you can bring home a new puppy, because being able to leave its mother is not all about being able to be fed by her. During those ate weeks, they learn crucial socialization skills, such as bite inhibition, which is the reason why a dog knows its not ok to bite someones head off
8 weeks is the standard time to take home a puppy as although they are weaned at 5 weeks they still need to learn things from their mother and their litter mates as well as gaining important time socialising. Good question. 8 weeks is the youngest you can bring home a new puppy, because being able to leave its mother is not all about being able to be fed by her. During those ate weeks, they learn crucial socialization skills, such as bite inhibition, which is the reason why a dog knows its not ok to bite someones head off
Keep these things in mind before your bring your puppy home. But from a caring breeder who focuses on quality dogs. Make sure that before the puppy leaves for his new home the breeder has given them the appropriate number of vaccines for their age. 
I would recommend you visit the puppies at the very least twice, at 4/5 weeks and again when you pick up the pup. The best age to take the puppy home is 7 weeks see my Psychological Changes in a Puppies Growth. NEVER ever accept a puppy less than 7 weeks of age, it is vitally important they are with their mother and siblings up to this age. Puppies over twelve weeks should be avoided if possible. 