A cost estimate is the approximation of the cost of a program, project, or operation. The cost estimate is the product of the cost estimating process. The cost estimate has a single total value and may have identifiable component values. A problem with a cost overrun can be avoided with a credible, reliable, and accurate cost estimate. A cost estimate is often used to establish a budget as the cost constraint for a project or operation. In project management, project cost management is a major functional division. Cost estimating is one of three activities performed in project cost management.
A common technique for cost estimating is to list the resources you need for the project and to total their costs. Typical resources include equipment, material, services and labor. You can get costs for equipment, material and services by consulting price lists or by going out for bids for the larger pieces. Such techniques give accurate results, and their reliability is high as long as the inputs used for the calculations are exact. When you calculate project costs using effective cost-estimating techniques, you will be able to assign corresponding resources and develop schedules to manage the project successfully.
Project underestimation of resources and costs is one of the most common contributors to project failure. As such, project managers should be knowledgeable of and consider the various industry techniques and tools in the definition and execution of project cost estimation. Cost Estimating Page 2 of 2 SDLC: Related Links. Whereas the execution of appropriate cost estimation techniques certainly contributes to the. accuracy of cost estimates, other project management knowledge areas also play an important. role in cost estimation accuracy.
Some cost estimating techniques rely on software. Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. One of the first tasks when managing a project is the cost estimate. A cost estimate must be accurate, transparent and reliable. These factors are particularly important for a small business because its resources are limited. Using standard techniques lets you see the details of the cost calculations. Such techniques give accurate results, and their reliability is high as long as the inputs used for the calculations are exact. When you calculate project costs using effective cost-estimating techniques, you will be able to assign corresponding resources and develop schedules to manage the project successfully.
Linear regression. Cost estimation methods are necessary only for costs that are identified as mixed costs. There is no need to apply an estimation method to break a cost into fixed and variable portions if you have already determined it is solely fixed or solely variable. The variable cost per unit is plugged into the cost formula as the variable cost (VC). The fixed costs are totaled separately to calculate the Y-intercept (TFC) component of the equation. This results in a cost equation that can be used to estimate costs for future periods.
Question: Another approach to identifying fixed and variable costs for cost estimation purposes is the high-low methodA method of cost analysis that uses the high and low activity data points to estimate fixed and variable costs. Question: The account analysisA method of cost analysis that requires a review of accounts by an experienced employee or group of employees to determine whether the costs in each account are fixed or variable. approach is perhaps the most common starting point for estimating fixed and variable costs.
The goal of each cost estimation method is to estimate fixed and variable costs and to describe this estimate in the form of Y = f + v X. That is, Total mixed cost = Total fixed cost + (Unit variable cost × Number of units). Question: The account analysisA method of cost analysis that requires a review of accounts by an experienced employee or group of employees to determine whether the costs in each account are fixed or variable. approach is perhaps the most common starting point for estimating fixed and variable costs.
Cost Estimating Methods. Cost estimating is a valuable tool that is used in each of the acquisition phases. There are a number of cost estimating techniques that can be used in estimating the costs of a future and current weapon system. A few of the most common cost estimating techniques are listed in the Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG) and are: 1  Parametric: The parametric technique uses regression or other statistical methods to develop Cost Estimating Relationships (CERs).