Each part of the nephron has different types of cells with different properties -- this is important in understanding how the kidney regulates the composition of the blood. The nephron has a unique blood supply compared to other organs: 1  Afferent arteriole-connects the renal artery with the glomerular capillaries. The nephron is the basic unit of the kidney. It's a long, thin tube that is closed at one end, has two twisted regions interspaced with a long hairpin loop, ends in a long straight portion and is surrounded by capillaries. The parts of the nephron are as follows:
There are two parts of a kidney nephron: the renal corpuscle, and the renal tubule. (1) Renal Corpuscle. The renal corpuscle is the part of the kidney nephron in which blood plasma is filtered. (2) Renal Tubule. The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) , which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above.
The first part of the collecting tubule (cortical collecting tubule) is within the renal cortex while the latter part (medullary collecting tubule) is within the renal medulla. Diagram of the Nephron, Glomerulus and Different Parts of the Tubule. The tubules are lined with a thin layer of epithelial cells. The thinner segments of the tubules like the descending limb and first part of the ascending limb of the loop of Henle has cells with minimal organelles. It has two parts, namely the network of capillaries that transport the blood to the site (glomerular capillaries) and the enlarged head of the nephron which collects the filtered fluid (Bowman’s capsule). This part of the nephron lies in the renal cortex.
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
The renal corpuscle of each kidney nephron has two parts-they are the Glomerulus, which is a network of small blood vessels called capillaries, and the Bowman's Capsule (also known as the Glomerular Capsule), which is the double-walled epithelial cup within which the glomerulus is contained. (2) Renal Tubule. The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) , which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above.
The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT), which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above. (2) Renal Tubule. The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) 
Kidney Health Care-David Mangusan Jr, PTRP. The nephron is the tiny filtering structure in your kidneys. Each of your kidneys contain more than a million tiny filtering nephrons that help clean your blood. Function of the Nephrons. Your nephrons help: Each nephron is composed of two main structures: the glomerulus and renal (kidney) tubule. The Glomerulus. The glomerulus is a tiny blood vessel or capillary, which looks like a ball of yarn. Actual filtering of your blood occurs in the glomerulus
In each kidney, there are one million of these structures, called nephrons. The nephron is the basic unit of the kidney. It's a long, thin tube that is closed at one end, has two twisted regions interspaced with a long hairpin loop, ends in a long straight portion and is surrounded by capillaries. The parts of the nephron are as follows: 1  Bowman's capsule-This closed end at the beginning of the nephron is located in the cortex. 2  Proximal convoluted tubule or proximal tubule-The first twisted region after the Bowman's capsule; it's in the cortex
The most actively working parts of the kidneys are tiny structures called nephrons. Each normal nephron, generally, works day and night to get rid of wastes in the blood. And each kidney has about 1 million tiny filtering units. Two major parts of the nephron are the renal corpuscle and the renal tubule. The corpuscle has the glomerulus (see illustration). Cleansing of the blood occurs in this part of the nephron. The glomerulus, which is a tuft of very small blood vessels, has tiny holes that act as a filter. It allows water, wastes and small materials to pass through.