Plant Description. This spectacular improved version of the native Annabelle hydrangea produces huge, full flower heads, as large as 12 across, and is both reliable and beautiful. Flowers open green, then mature to white before fading to green again. Very sturdy stems hold the blooms upright even if soaked with rai
Genus name comes from hydor meaning water and aggeion meaning vessel in reference to the cup-like capsular fruit. Specific epithet comes from arbor meaning tree in reference to the similarity of this shrub to a small tree. 'Annabelle' is a smooth hydrangea cultivar which features much larger flowers than the species. It is a deciduous shrub with a rounded habit which typically grows 3-5' tall. Clusters of sterile, white flowers appear in huge, symmetrical, rounded heads (corymbs) which typically grow 8-12 across
Smooth Hydrangea. Smooth hydrangea (H. arborescens), is named for its large, smooth leaves. Sometimes called snowball hydrangea, it grows about 4 feet tall and is hardy in Zones 4–9. Smooth hydrangea can take full sun if the soil stays moist, but part shade is best in most other situations. ‘Annabelle’ is the best-known cultivar, with huge flowers in early summer. Flowers start out white, then fade to green and tan. Other cultivars have pink flowers. Smooth hydrangea blooms on new wood (this year’s growth), so it can be cut to the ground in winter or early spring and still flower the same year. Good to Know: These hydrangeas tend to flop after rain, so support plants with a wire frame to keep them upright and looking their best. Bigleaf Hydrangea. Among hydrangeas, bigleaf hydrangea (H. macrophylla) may have the showiest flowers of all -- usually in bright hues of pink or blue. Mopheads have big dome-shape flower clusters, while lacecaps have lacy-looking flowerheads featuring a mix of large and small florets.
Foliage: Opposite, simple dark green leaves; 2-8 in. long; yellowish brown fall color. Flower: The native Smooth Hydrangea is white, 6 to 8 inches, flattened corymb in summer; opens white then turns green and brown. The named cultivars have typical ball-shaped hydrangea flowers 8 to 12 inches across. Newer cultivars can be found with pink flowers. 
How can I dry hydrangeas? As hydrangea flowers age on the plant, they often turn attractive colors. Bigleaf hydrangea flowers may develop muted tones of blue, purple, rose, violet and green. Panicle and oakleaf flowers develop pink and rose colors, while smooth hydrangea flowers turn pale green. 
Uploaded on Sep 11, 2011. Hydrangea arborescens 'Annabelle' - Smooth Hydrangea is variety of Hydrangea with large, pure white rounded flowers which are great for cutting. To learn more please watch the video. For more information on this and many other plants please visit www.designwithplants.com
A favorite of many gardeners-and deservedly so-Smooth Hydrangea 'Annabelle' (Hydrangea Arborescens) is a fabulous selection with its large, showy snow balls (up to 12 in. or 30 cm across) that brighten shady areas and bring life to the garden from mid summer to early fall. 
Noteworthy Characteristics. Hydrangea arborescens, commonly known as smooth hydrangea or wild hydrangea, is a loosely and widely branched deciduous shrub that typically grows to 3-6’ (less frequently to 10’) tall. Specific epithet comes from arbor meaning tree in reference to the similarity of this shrub to a small tree. 'Annabelle' is a smooth hydrangea cultivar which features much larger flowers than the species. It is a deciduous shrub with a rounded habit which typically grows 3-5' tall.