In the state of Texas, child support and visitation are two different animals. You need to petition the court for visitation. Once it's set, she will be required by law to follow the order. You can also contact the Office of the Attorney General for the state of Texas regarding support, if you wish. Just so you know, even if you're not paying child support you have a right to see your daughter. If your ex doesn't request child support, that is her business -- she is legally not allowed to prevent you from seeing your child. You *can* go to the court and request to start paying child support on your own if you want. Or, here is another option
1 You don't have a court order to establish child support payments, and you want one. 2  You have a registry-only (RO) case with the Attorney General, but you want other services, such as enforcement or modification, that would change your case into a full-service (FS) case. Beginning September 1, 2011, custodial parents will pay a $3 monthly fee in cases that receive registry-only payment processing and record-keeping services through the State Disbursement Unit (SDU) for each month in which a child support payment of more than $3 is received.
No. If you are under 18 and not graduated from high school, you should live with either of your parents. If you attempt to file child support for yourself, the court can make … you live with the parent that you request child support from, if you are not already living with your custodial parent. 1 person found this useful. 
This is an easy way for the non-custodial parent to make child support payments. It also provides the non-custodial parent with a record of payments made. If support payments are not deducted from the non-custodial parent's paycheck, they should be paid as directed in the court order. It is very important to keep records of the payments that are made. The Fatherhood Program can help non-custodial parents who have a case with DCSS and are unable to pay child support.
Confidence votes 305. No. If you are under 18 and not graduated from high school, you should live with either of your parents. If you attempt to file child support for yourself, the court can make you live with the parent that you request child support from, if you are not already living with your custodial parent. In most states, the parent has until the child reaches the age of majority to file, but the child can file for one more years after. In a few states, the limit is 23 years of … age. Some states do not allow for retroactive orders, while a few allows 18 years retroactive.
1 Non-Texas residents can apply for services with the Child Support Division of the Office of the Attorney General of Texas, provided there is a Texas child support order or one of the parties or child(ren) resides in Texas. Beginning September 1, 2011, custodial parents will pay a $3 monthly fee in cases that receive registry-only payment processing and record-keeping services through the State Disbursement Unit (SDU) for each month in which a child support payment of more than $3 is received.
Introduction. The Child Support Division of the Office of the Attorney General helps get child support and medical support for dependent children. You may want this assistance for one of the following reasons: 1  You don't have a court order to establish child support payments, and you want one. Beginning September 1, 2011, custodial parents will pay a $3 monthly fee in cases that receive registry-only payment processing and record-keeping services through the State Disbursement Unit (SDU) for each month in which a child support payment of more than $3 is received.
My child lives with her mother in Kansas. I am trying to put myself on court ordered child support because it cannot be put in my divorce decree from the state of TX. I need guidance in this matter.
Share this conversation. Expert: Dave Kennett replied 6 years ago. Dear suk rider-You cannot simply put yourself on child support. Assuming you are a residential parent of a child and have legal custody then you would have to make a motion to the court for a determination of child support from the other parent. If you are asking how to start paying support then you can file a motion with the court to determine custody, support and any other issue involving the child. I really cannot comment further on this limited fact situation. David Kennett-JD-Attorney at Law.