My parents let me go to the pool on my own at an early age, but I was a competitive swimmer starting at age 8. Our local pool has the rule that kids 7 and under need to be with an adult in the water. 8-11 an adult needs to be at the pool with them but can sit in on the deck of the pool. After 11 if they can pass a swim test then they're good to go.
The answer is no one is allowed to swim alone in the pool. Not adults, kids, dogs or monsters. If you go to a public beach, there are signs that state no swimming without lifeguards or swim at your own risk. At public pools in my community, the pools are emptied of all swimmer if no lifeguard is present. At what age do/did you allow your child to swim in your pool unsupervised? My daughter is 11 years old and is an extremely strong swimmer.
Posted: Jul-12 10:24 AM (1 of 31). Our local pools allow kids to swim alone at 8 years old. They are staffed with lifeguards but even so, my newest Parent's magazine stated that accidental drowning deaths were the second most common way for children ages 5-14 to lose their life. The particular story they featured had a child age 4, who had completed swimming lessons and was fearless of the water. Our local pool has the rule that kids 7 and under need to be with an adult in the water. 8-11 an adult needs to be at the pool with them but can sit in on the deck of the pool. After 11 if they can pass a swim test then they're good to go.
Children 8 and younger need to have a parent or guardian in the water at all times. Cleveland: For indoor pools, children who are at least 8 years old and 4 feet tall can be left unattended. For outdoor pools, kids just need to be 4 feet tall. Columbus: Children 8 and older can be unattended. A person 16 and older can watch one child younger than 12 and a person 18 and older can watch up to 10 children who are younger than 12. Cincinnati Sports Club: Children 12 and older can be left alone at the Fairfax private pool.
April 13, 2011 at 1:50 pm. It really depends on the individual child and when they seem ready to swim alone. For example, if you have a 13 year old but they are a weak swimming then supervision is still needed. Our YMCA has a test that kids must pass to be able to swim in the deep pool and go down the slide. It requires swimming the length of the pool in more than just a dog paddle and treading water for 30 seconds. They will not hesitate to fail a kid if they don’t think they are handling even if they are doing it.
Two criminal laws specifically deal with unattended kids. One says that leaving a child 6 years of age or younger unattended in a motor vehicle for more than 10 minutes is child endangerment. Unattended means not accompanied by someone at least 14 years old, or out of that person's sight. This offense is a Class A misdemeanor (possible 1 year in jail and $1,000 fine). I say that a good age would be 10 or 11. As a parent of an eleven year old I am letting her swim ALONE.
You can be at least 14 years of age!   However, at that age, you have to be at top class and pass the Youth Academy and go up the world ladder. Normally, you can star … t swimming in the Olympiics at the age of 16. It depends on how your swimming progresses through the future. 
So how do parents determine if a child is ‘old enough’ to be unsupervised at a pool or beach? Broward County in Florida is on the cutting edge of water safety and they recommend a minimum age of 12, though some experts believe it should be even higher. Our YMCA has a test that kids must pass to be able to swim in the deep pool and go down the slide. It requires swimming the length of the pool in more than just a dog paddle and treading water for 30 seconds. They will not hesitate to fail a kid if they don’t think they are handling even if they are doing it.
Report Abuse. I would suggest that the adult owner of the pool has the right to set a minimum age for swimming in their pool, alone or otherwise. A general rule for all swimming (and other water sports) is 'never swim alone'. Most pools say you have to be over 14 to swim without adult supervision. If your under 14 and over 8 they make your parent sign a waver but under that you can't be by yourself. Source(s): I work at a pool.
The Enquirer found some pools allow children as young as 8 to be at the pool alone. Others used height as part of the equation. In Dayton, at city-owned pools, children 8 and younger must have a parent or guardian in the water at all times. At YMCAs, children must pass a swim test to go in the deep end of the pool. Farhad Madani, who owns Austin, Texas-based consulting company Aquatic Safety Experts, said there is no real appropriate age for a child to be left alone at a pool because every child is different. A person 16 and older can watch one child younger than 12 and a person 18 and older can watch up to 10 children who are younger than 12. Cincinnati Sports Club: Children 12 and older can be left alone at the Fairfax private pool.