Summer (mid-June through early September) typically provides our warmest temperatures. Although snow has even fallen on July 4th, summer weather tends to be drier and more pleasant. Highs can run in the 70’s-80’s (25-30°C.) Lows can drop to the 30’s and 40’s (0-10°C.) Afternoon thunderstorms are not uncommon.
Rides begin when the rangers declare the trails fit for stock use. Average daytime temperatures are in the 40s to 50s and the 60s and 70s by late May and early June. Remember that this is the average.. We recommend a warm jacket, thermal underwear and rain gear. June can be cool and rainy. Average maximum temperatures are usually in the 70s. Nights are cool and temperatures may drop into the 30s and 40s. It may even snow in early June. (It may be hot as blue blazes, too.) We recommend a warm jacket and rain gear for the month of June and, during early June, thermal underwear.
Yellowstone: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Yellowstone with an average temperature of 24°C (75°F) and the coldest is January at -2°C (28°F) . 
Starting in September, temperatures average 10 to 20 degrees lower than summer readings, with highs in the 40s to 60s. Over night temperatures can fall into the teens and single digits. Snowstorms increase in frequency and intensity as the weeks go by. June can be cool and rainy. Average maximum temperatures are usually in the 70s. Nights are cool and temperatures may drop into the 30s and 40s. It may even snow in early June. (It may be hot as blue blazes, too.) We recommend a warm jacket and rain gear for the month of June and, during early June, thermal underwear.
The nearest reporting station is at West Yellowstone, and this is usually the coldest place in the nation for several days every month of the year-at nighttime it typically records 35°F in July and -40°F in February, though the all time low for this location is -66°F set in 1933. The highest temperature ever recorded at West Yellowstone was 97°F in 1936, and at Yellowstone Lake, 92°F in 2003. But always the conditions are quite changeable; sudden storms may appear at any time of year, and prolonged cool spells are possible even in midsummer.
Location. This report describes the typical weather at the Yellowstone Lake (Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, United States) weather station over the course of an average July. It is based on the historical records from 2001 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. 
Yellowstone Park Weather. Yellowstone National Park weather is always changing – it’s a four-season destination! Because elevations inside Yellowstone National Park range from 5,280 feet to 11,400 feet, visitors should not be surprised if the Park’s weather changes without a moment’s notice. 0%.
Temperatures in Yellowstone in winter will vary due to elevation. However, most visitor areas tend to stay in the 0-25 degree (-20 to -5°C) range. It is not uncommon for temperatures at higher elevations to drop below 0. Although snow has even fallen on July 4th, summer weather tends to be drier and more pleasant. Highs can run in the 70’s-80’s (25-30°C.) Lows can drop to the 30’s and 40’s (0-10°C.) Afternoon thunderstorms are not uncommon.
Yellowstone National Park Weather. The weather is extremely unpredictable in the Park. BE PREPARED FOR ANYTHING! The average elevation in Yellowstone National Park is 6,000 feet which means temperatures are often much cooler. During the summer months the weather can turn from sunny and warm to rainy and even snowy within just a few hours. Autumn in Yellowstone can be magical if you hit it right. Temperatures during the day are between 50º and 70º (ideal for hiking) with nights hovering around freezing. Cold and rainy/snowy weather is always a threat during the entire year so it's important to be prepared.