The Desjardini Sailfin Tang, also known as the Indian Ocean Sailfin Tang, Desjardin's Sailfin Tang, or Red Sea Sailfin Tang, is dark to very light gray in color with light freckles on the nose and yellow freckles on the abdomen. 
Best Answer: They are all part of the same family. Swordfish have a thicker and longer bill and the fish as a whole are a lot more stout. The fish they catch in the movie Perfect Storm are swordfish, they are mostly a nocturnal and deeper dwelling fish. Compared to the other billfish, their meat is very tasty and very prized. Marlin are the king of the billfish. There are different types of marlin: black, blue, white and striped
50 mph/ They are in the top 10 fastest animals in the ocean with the sailfish being the fastest. What is a swordfish sword made of and what is it used for? Juveniles have no sword, but teeth instead. As they mature, their upper jaw elongates into the sword which accounts for a third of their overall length. The bill on a swordfish looks just like a sword. A marlin bill is more rounded, not as long, and has a rough, raspy surface that the swordfish does not. They are all large open water predators however, swordfish are primarily nocturnal whereas marlin are diurnal. Marlin are more often found in the upper reaches of the water column, where swordfish are often found in depths exceeding 1000 feet
Pelagic fish range in size from small coastal forage fish, such as herrings and sardines, to large apex predator oceanic fishes, such as the Southern bluefin tuna and oceanic sharks. They are usually agile swimmers with streamlined bodies, capable of sustained cruising on long-distance migrations. Demersal fish live on or near the bottom of the sea. Demersal fish are found by the seafloor in coastal areas on the continental shelf, and in the open ocean they are found along the outer continental margin on the continental slope and the continental rise.
They are known for their easily identifiable sword like protrusion from their faces, which is used to slice at prey and make them easier to catch. They are the only member of the Xiphiidae family-although they do seem superficially similar to fish such as Marlin, sailfish they are in fact a different species. The difference between marlin, other billfish and Swordfish is the shape and texture of their bill. They are a commercially sought 'food fish' all over the world; the USA, Canada, Portugal, Brazil, Japan, Spain, Taiwan, and Uruguay all indulge in Sword fishing. Harpoons or fishing rods are prevalent tools used to catch sword fish as they are adept at using their 'swords' to cut through nets when trapped.
However, when these fish are caught and released, their average age is 4 to 5 years. (Prince, et al., 1986). Indo-Pacific sailfish spend most of their time in the upper 10 m of the water column and sometimes dive up to 350 m to find food. Although they are not threatened or endangered, Indo-Pacific sailfish are considered a 'data-poor fishery' by the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission due to the increased fishing pressure, with an average yearly catch between 2008 to 2012 estimated at 26,283 metric tons.
Indo-Pacific sailfish are frequently taken as bycatch by commercial tuna longliners in the Indian Ocean. They are also caught by gillnets, trolling, and harpooning by artisanal fishers. In 2011, an estimated 28,800 metric tons of Indo-Pacific sailfish were caught within the Indian Ocean. These fish are generally considered a prized sport fish, and their meat is often used for sashimi and sushi in Japan. Trophy specimens of Indo-Pacific sailfish have measured up to 340 cm, weighing as much as 100 kg. Their fusiform body is long, compressed, and remarkably streamlined. Indo-Pacific sailfish are dark blue dorsally, with a mix of brown and light blue laterally, and a silver-white color on their ventral side.
Indo-Pacific sailfish (Istiophorus platypterus) are found in temperate and tropical ocean waters. These fish are often found near tropical areas, especially near the equatorial regions of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans. Although they are not threatened or endangered, Indo-Pacific sailfish are considered a 'data-poor fishery' by the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission due to the increased fishing pressure, with an average yearly catch between 2008 to 2012 estimated at 26,283 metric tons.
Swordfish have a much wider temperature range, where marlin are more tropical and subtropical in habitat. Another major difference is the dorsal fin on a swordfish is rigid, fixed in the upright position. Whereas all marlins and sailfish have a dorsal fin that can fold down into a channel. Marlins are generally larger than swordfish as well. Swordfish is eaten by humans whereas marlins are generally not. The bill on a swordfish looks just like a sword. A marlin bill is more rounded, not as long, and has a rough, raspy surface that the swordfish does not. They are all large open water predators however, swordfish are primarily nocturnal whereas marlin are diurnal. Marlin are more often found in the upper reaches of the water column, where swordfish are often found in depths exceeding 1000 fee