Welcome to the world of dystopian literature! Dystopias often start with an illusion of a perfect society, or UTOPIA. But as the story progresses, the reader and characters both realize that this fictional world is the opposite of perfect. A DYSTOPIA is an imaginary futuristic world in which society lives under the oppression and control of a totalitarian government, a repressive society, a force of technology, or a corrupt business corporation. The society tends to dehumanize its citizens.
See also: Utopian and dystopian fiction. A dystopia (from the Greek δυσ- and τόπος, alternatively, cacotopia, kakotopia, or simply anti-utopia) is a community or society that is undesirable or frightening. Utopia is the blueprint for an ideal society with no crime or poverty. By contrast, dystopia is a nightmare world which, in many cases, has resulted from attempts to create an ideal society.
Introduction. Negative utopian literature, or Dystopian literature, is a powerful form of political satire. The following is a guide to sites dedicated to three books and authors of Dystopian literature. You will find analyses of the novels as well as biographies of the authors. 
Dystopian Themes. In dystopian novels, it is often seen that the way of living is not favorable and many common themes occur throughout different dystopian novels and some not so typical dystopian novels. Dystopia is defined as an imaginary place where the conditions of life are extremely bad and unpleasant. One of the most well known dystopian novels is 1984 by George Orwell. 1984 demonstrates the perfect examples of how unpleasant a dystopian world is. One of the main issues in 1984 is the lack of privacy everyone within the party has.
Although One Flew over the Cuckoo’s Nest is not a typical dystopian novel, it shares similar themes as the dystopian novel 1984 such as, lack of privacy, total control, and instilling fear and torture into its “members”. One of the most well known dystopian novels is 1984 by George Orwell. 1984 demonstrates the perfect examples of how unpleasant a dystopian world is. One of the main issues in 1984 is the lack of privacy everyone within the party has.
Some of the most famous examples are 1984 and Brave New World. Dystopias are often characterized by dehumanization, totalitarian governments, environmental disaster, or other characteristics associated with a cataclysmic decline in society. Utopia is the blueprint for an ideal society with no crime or poverty. By contrast, dystopia is a nightmare world which, in many cases, has resulted from attempts to create an ideal society.
Dystopia is the opposite of utopia (eu topos-a good place, dis topos-a bad place), depicting fictional societies in which the living is bad and imperfect caused by human misery, poverty, tyranny and terrorism. 
(1). Here is more information on the characteristics of dystopian society in literature from the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE): Utopia: A place, state, or condition that is ideally perfect in respect of politics, laws, customs, and conditions. Characteristics of a Dystopian Society. Propaganda is used to control the citizens of society. Information, independent thought, and freedom are restricted. A figurehead or concept is worshipped by the citizens of the society.
This is a list of dystopian films. A dystopia (from the Greek δυσ- and τόπος, alternatively, cacotopia, kakotopia, cackotopia, or anti-utopia) is an imaginary community or society that is undesirable or frightening. It is literally translated as not-good place, an antonym of utopia