If you have, you are not alone. The classic definition for this phenomenon is called sleep paralysis. It may last a few seconds, several moments, or even longer, and usually occurs right before you are about to fall asleep or wake up.
Answer: Sleep paralysis can be a very scary thing. In it, you know you re asleep, you try to wake up, but you can t. It s often accompanied by an irrational feeling of utter terror, and sometimes images of figures in black cloaks. Many cultures have developed supernatural explanations for sleep paralysis. In China, it s called m ng yǎn, ghost pressing on body.nowing that you re asleep and paralyzed, however, can be frightening. You tell yourself to open your eyes, just to get caught in another false awakening. One theory is that sleep paralysis affects the larger parts of the body more completely. You can try to wake up by wiggling your toes or fingers.
If you've ever experienced sleep paralysis, you know just how frightening it can be. For those of you who have never experienced it, imagine that you're asleep and you're having a nightmare. In your nightmare, you find that you can't move-- your body is frozen, paralyzed, and you're completely helpless.piritual people don’t believe the visions commonly associated with sleep paralysis are false; they believe that sleep paralysis is in fact something brought on by an encounter with some kind of entity. This entity is seen as some kind of malevolent force.
Research on Sleep paralysis is continuing but up to now modern sciences do not have a clear and conclusive understanding of the phenomenon. However the various hypotheses put forth as possible explanations of the various symptoms are: Those undergoing severe stress are reliving past horrors through sleep paralysis.. Spiritual research into Sleep paralysis. The following is a spiritual explanation of some of the key observations mentioned above. All explanations and statistics quoted here are obtained from Universal Intellect by seekers of the Spiritual Science Research Foundation (SSRF) with a highly developed sixth sense.
Among all the cases of Sleep paralysis only 10% happen in the waking state and 90% happen during sleep. Whether it is a once in a lifetime incidence or frequent, only 30% of people are aware of the occurrences whereas 70% of people are unaware that it has happened to them.. Spiritual research into Sleep paralysis. The following is a spiritual explanation of some of the key observations mentioned above. All explanations and statistics quoted here are obtained from Universal Intellect by seekers of the Spiritual Science Research Foundation (SSRF) with a highly developed sixth sense.
Spiritual people don’t believe the visions commonly associated with sleep paralysis are false; they believe that sleep paralysis is in fact something brought on by an encounter with some kind of entity. This entity is seen as some kind of malevolent force.
Sleep paralysis is a frightening phenomenon in which natural sleeping muscle atonia affects lucid dreams with false awakenings. Atonia, or paralysis, is the natural state of being unable to move during sleep. Lucid dreams occur when the sleeper knows he's dreaming. False awakenings are when the dreamer thinks he has woken up, just to discover he hasn't. None of these are spiritual issues, but what happens in the dream might be. 
This section illustrates how sleep paralysis is a complex set of experiences that includes body paralysis, waking hallucinations, and the fear that connects these two strands together, reinforcing the nightmarish aspects of the condition.iled Under: sleep paralysis Tagged With: faith, lucid nightmares, nightmare, sleep ghost, sleep paralysis, sleep paralysis treatment, spiritual sleep paralysis, spirituality. Sign up for blog updates and you not only get the latest in dream studies news but also my free ebook Enhance your Dream Life.
Please try again later. Published on Sep 28, 2011. This is my case of Sleep Paralysis (A sleep disorder where you are aware of what is going on in your surroundings but you can't move or do anything about it.) I wanted to record this and show it to any people who may have the same condition but arent aware of it. 
Spiritual research by the SSRF into the causes of Sleep paralysis has revealed that one of the main spiritual reasons for these phenomena is an attack by ghosts (demons, devils, negative energies etc.) .. Spiritual research into Sleep paralysis. The following is a spiritual explanation of some of the key observations mentioned above. All explanations and statistics quoted here are obtained from Universal Intellect by seekers of the Spiritual Science Research Foundation (SSRF) with a highly developed sixth sense.