Find the sum of the width, depth and length of the bag. For a bag with a width of 9 inches, a depth of 5 inches, and a length of 13 inches, add the three values. In this instance the lineal value of the bag is 27 inches. 1  Familiarize your self with the regulations of the particular airline you are flying on. 
If you're over your weight limit on a particular checked bag, make use of a packable spare bag to divide the load: the charge for an additional bag is usually less than that for an overweight one. Your daypack or lightweight duffel will come in handy for this purpose. Further, the rules for carry-on baggage vary (especially on smaller aircraft and in out-of-the-way places), and you are at the mercy of capricious transit personnel in any case. So there may well be situations where you choose — or are obliged — to check your bag.
1 Prepare for a lost, stolen, damaged, or delayed checked bag-Pack your carry-on bags so that you will be able to survive for 48 hours at your destination without your checked bags. 2  If you are checking more than one piece of luggage, distribute items so that the loss of one bag will not cause undue hardship. 1 You may also want to use small ribbons, stickers, or other identifying marks on the bag to make it easier to spot. 2  Check the airline luggage tags-At check in, make sure that tags that the gate agent attaches to each piece of checked luggage matches your baggage claim tickets.
Checking Bags. Although carry-on travel is a significant benefit of travelling with one bag, not everyone chooses to exercise this option. Further, the rules for carry-on baggage vary (especially on smaller aircraft and in out-of-the-way places), and you are at the mercy of capricious transit personnel in any case. So there may well be situations where you choose — or are obliged — to check your bag.
25 - 27. These sizes are the most popular size of luggage to check. They are ideal for trips of 5 to 7 days, or longer, depending on how you pack. They have a large capacity for multiple outfits, shoes, and toiletries. 21 - 22 Carry-on Luggage. These are the most popular sizes of carry-on luggage for U.S. domestic flights. Most U.S. airlines have carry on restrictions of 22 x 14 x 9, or 45 linear inches.
Exceptions. Under certain conditions, you can check in luggage that exceeds the airline's linear height and weight restrictions. For example, if you travel first class or on a Business Elite fare with Delta, you are entitled to check up luggage up to 70 pounds for free. This means that when you add up the length, width and height of the luggage you intend to check, it should not be more than 62 inches. Most standard suitcases, garment bags and duffel bags measure 62 linear inches or less.
Checked Luggage. These sizes are the most popular size of luggage to check. They are ideal for trips of 5 to 7 days, or longer, depending on how you pack. They have a large capacity for multiple outfits, shoes, and toiletries. 21 - 22 Carry-on Luggage. These are the most popular sizes of carry-on luggage for U.S. domestic flights. Most U.S. airlines have carry on restrictions of 22 x 14 x 9, or 45 linear inches.
The maximum number of linear inches on a checked bag for most airlines is 62 inches. This means that when you add up the length, width and height of the luggage you intend to check, it should not be more than 62 inches. Most standard suitcases, garment bags and duffel bags measure 62 linear inches or less.
How big can my check-in and carry-on luggage be on my flight from Los Angeles, California to Shanghai, China? My tour group itinerary insists it be no larger than 18x10x8 for check in. There are no requirements stated for the carry-on bag. I do not have any luggage that fits these dimensions. The website of the airline you're flying should have the answer -- since the size limits vary from airline to airline, and since you don't mention which airline you're flying, pointing you to that website is the best anyone here can do for you. Source(s): nako · 5 years ago. Thumbs up