If left untreated, strep throat may lead to complications such as rheumatic fever (an immune disease), otitis media (middle ear infection), or glomerulonephritis (a kidney disease). Unlike a sore throat, strep throat is not associated with symptoms such as stuffy nose, coughing, or sneezing. However, it is also possible for adults to experience severe symptoms such as intense throat pain and difficulty swallowing. Other signs and symptoms that may be experienced by children, teens, and adults include swollen neck nodes, white or yellowish spots on the tonsils or throat, red inflamed throat, and high fever.
Strep throat facts. 1  Most sore throats are caused by viruses, not strep bacteria. 2  Symptoms of strep throat in middle-age children and adolescents include: 3  Sore throat (90%). 4  Headache (85%). 5  Fever (85%). 6  Upset stomach (65%). 7  Symptoms associated with an upper respiratory infection (a  cold ) are typically absent (for example, nasal congestion, ... 8  T What are the Symptoms and Signs of Strep Throat? Throat infection with strep bacteria is contagious and can cause a variety of symptoms associated with inflammation of the throat and its nearby structures. Symptoms usually begin within a few days (1-4 days) after contracting the infection (incubation period).
Some people experience mild symptoms like a sore throat, whereas other people have more severe symptoms including fever and difficulty swallowing. Common symptoms of strep throat include: 1  sudden fever. 2  sore throat (red throat with white patches). 3  headache. 4  chills. 5  loss of appetite. 6  swollen lymph nodes in the neck.
An infection called Group A Streptococcus causes strep. A virus is usually to blame for a simple sore throat. Antibiotics can ease strep symptoms, get rid of it faster, and lower the risk of complications. Without treatment, the infection can affect your heart or other organs. It's rare, but it can lead to serious illness. 
Sore Throat. The most common symptom of strep throat in adults is a sore throat. The abnormal presence of streptococcus bacteria within your throat can lead to irritation and inflammation of this sensitive tissue. Photo Credit thermometer image by timur1970 from Fotolia.com. Strep throat is a type of throat infection caused by a bacterium called Group A Streptococcus. Though this type of infection most commonly occurs in young children and adolescents, adults can also develop strep throat.
Although some of these signs and symptoms may be related to a strep throat infection, they can also be indicators of other emergent conditions such as peritonsillar abscess, epiglottitis, tracheitis, or retropharyngeal abscess. 
Some other more non-specific signs and symptoms of strep throat which can also be seen in strep throat due to other causes are: 1  sudden onset of sore throat, 2  headache, 3  odynophagia (painful swallowing), 4  nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, 5  red, swollen soft palate (uvula), and/or. 6  rash (diffuse red patchy rash). What are the Symptoms and Signs of Strep Throat? Throat infection with strep bacteria is contagious and can cause a variety of symptoms associated with inflammation of the throat and its nearby structures. Symptoms usually begin within a few days (1-4 days) after contracting the infection (incubation period).
Strep Throat Symptoms in Adults. Strep throat is a bacterial infection of the throat (including the tonsils). Strep throat infection is more common among children and teenagers, with an incidence peaking between five to fifteen years of age. However, it can also affect adults and may be associated with 5-10% of all sore throats. However, it is also possible for adults to experience severe symptoms such as intense throat pain and difficulty swallowing. Other signs and symptoms that may be experienced by children, teens, and adults include swollen neck nodes, white or yellowish spots on the tonsils or throat, red inflamed throat, and high fever.
Common symptoms of strep throat in children and adults include: 1  Severe and sudden sore throat without coughing, sneezing, or other cold symptoms. 2  Pain or difficulty with swallowing. 3  Fever over 101°F (38.3°C) . 4  Swollen lymph nodes in the neck. 5  White or yellow spots or coating on the throat and tonsils. 6  Bright red throat or dark red spots on the ... 