Pepsin is secreted in an inactive form, called pepsinogen by chief cells. Parietal cells secrete hydrochloric acid which converts pepsinogen to the active pepsin only when both reach the lumen of the stomach, minimizing self digestion Minimize self digestion and pepsin hydrolyses proteins. Source(s): From my Univeristy notes =).
Confidence votes 282. 1. Pepsin is the important digestive enzyme of the stomach.2. Pepsin can essentially digest any protein in the diet.3. Lacking sufficient pepsin, protein foods are poorly penetrated by other digestive enzymes further on and are thus poorly digested. Pepsin breaks down proteins into peptides and is found in the stomach, its secreted from the gastric glands found in the lining of the stomach. + 2 others found this useful.
Pepsin is an enzyme -- specifically, it's a proteolytic enzyme, meaning it helps digest proteins. Cells in the stomach secrete pepsin to help you digest the protein that you consume in food. Specialized cells in the intestine then absorb the digestion products of the protein into the bloodstream, and your cells take them up from there.
1 Pepsin is a protease that begins digestion of proteins, breaking them into peptides and amino acids. 2  Pepsinogen, is secreted by gastric glands of the stomach into the stomach. 3  There, in the acid environment of the stomach, pepsinogen is converted into pepsin. 1 There, in the acid environment of the stomach, pepsinogen is converted into pepsin. 2  Trypsin is a protease secreted into the small intestine by the pancreas. 3  As pepsin, trypsin digests proteins into peptides and amino acids and is made and secreted in an inactive form, trypsinogen.
1 A mucous that protects the stomach lining from the acid and digestive enzymes in the stomach. 2  Pepsinogen, which is converted to pepsin, which digests proteins. 3  Pepsinogen production is stimulated by the presence of gastrin in the blood. (see links at the end). Gastric juices are made of 3 main components. 1 
Pepsin is a digestive protease, a member of the aspartate protease family. Pepsin is one of three principal protein-degrading, or proteolytic, enzymes in the digestive system, the other two being chymotrypsin and trypsin. The three enzymes were among the first to be isolated in crystalline form. Pepsin is expressed as a pro-form zymogen, pepsinogen, whose primary structure has an additional 44 amino acids. In the stomach, chief cells release pepsinogen.
Pepsin is an enzyme which is secreted by Zymogen cells of  the stomach. First it is secreted in an inactive form called  Pepsinogen. After that Hydrochloric acid (HCl) activ … ates it  into pepsin. FUNCTION:   Its function is to hydrolyse the proteins to yield peptide. Pepsin breaks down proteins into peptides and is found in the stomach, its secreted from the gastric glands found in the lining of the stomach. + 2 others found this useful.
pepsinogen. a zymogen secreted by the chief cells of the gastric glands and converted into pepsin in the presence of gastric acid or of pepsin itself. plasma pepsinogen. high levels are indicative of extensive mucosal damage in the abomasum, as in ostertagiasis in ruminants. A proenzyme or zymogen formed and secreted by the chief cells of the gastric mucosa; the acidity of the gastric juice and pepsin itself remove 44 amino acyl residues from pepsinogen to form active pepsin. Synonym(s): propepsin. [pepsin + G. -gen, producing].
It's secreted by specialized cells in the lining of the stomach called chief cells, explains Dr. Lauralee Sherwood in her book Human Physiology.. Pepsin itself is a protein, but in contrast to the proteins that you eat and digest, pepsin has biological activity in the stomach. Cells in the stomach secrete pepsin to help you digest the protein that you consume in food. Specialized cells in the intestine then absorb the digestion products of the protein into the bloodstream, and your cells take them up from there.
Pepsin is an enzyme whose zymogen (pepsinogen) is released by the chief cells in the stomach and that degrades food proteins into peptides. Pepsin is expressed as a pro-form zymogen, pepsinogen, whose primary structure has an additional 44 amino acids. In the stomach, chief cells release pepsinogen.