Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue. An unusual urine color can be a sign of disease. For instance, deep red to brown urine is an identifying characteristic of porphyria, a rare, inherited disorder of red blood cells. 1  Symptoms.
1 Red or pink urine: certain foods that are naturally red can cause these color changes in your urine. 2  Laxatives and some prescription drugs can also be the cause of red urine. 3  In some cases, blood in your urine stream can be a sign of a medical condition like an enlarged prostate, bladder stones or even kidney cancer. The appearance of your urine can be affected by certain foods you eat, beverages you drink and diseases that you may be afflicted by. The yellow to amber color that normal urine has is due to a pigment called urochrome. When your urine is darker (amber), this usually is a sign you aren't getting enough fluids.
Abnormal: Many foods and medicines can affect the color of the urine. Urine with no color may be caused by long-term kidney disease or uncontrolled diabetes. Dark yellow urine can be caused by dehydration. Red urine can be caused by blood in the urine. A few crystals are normally seen. Abnormal: Red blood cells in the urine may be caused by kidney or bladder injury, kidney stones, a urinary tract infection (UTI), inflammation of the kidneys (glomerulonephritis), a kidney or bladder tumor, or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
First, keep in mind that your urine color is usually only a symptom and not a health issue in and of itself. That being said, let’s discuss what causes changes to your urine color. A Website About Urine. UrineColors.com is a site created to help you determine the causes of your different urine colors as well as help you understand how your urine color can be a symptom of certain health issues. We also discuss the basics about urine and some very interesting urine facts.
Abnormal urine color may be caused by infection, disease, medicines, or food you eat. Cloudy or milky urine is a sign of a urinary tract infection, which may also cause a bad smell. Milky urine may also be caused by bacteria, crystals, fat, white or red blood cells, or mucus in the urine. Dark brown but clear urine is a sign of a liver disorder such as. or, which causes excess bilirubin in the urine.
The color of urine can range from completely clear to gold, and can include unusual colors like red and blue. Here are some clues about what different urine colors may indicate: 1  Blue-green urine may be the result of certain medications such as laxatives, chemotherapy drugs, or vitamins. 2  If you aren’t taking any of these meds, and you continue to see this color for more than a few days, call your doctor to discuss. 1 Bright yellow or orange urine can indicate you’ve consumed a lot of vitamin C, carrots, beets, or other foods in the orange family. 2  Some medications can turn your urine this color as well. 3  Dark orange or brown urine is cause for concern. 4  This may mean you have bile in your urine or a problem with your liver.
Symptoms. Normal urine color varies, depending on how much water you drink. Fluids dilute the yellow pigments in urine, so the more you drink, the clearer your urine looks. When you drink less, the color becomes more concentrated. Severe dehydration can produce urine the color of amber. But sometimes urine can turn colors far beyond what's normal, including red, blue, green, dark brown and cloudy white. When to see a doctor. Seek medical attention if you have: 1  Visible blood in your urine. 2  Bloody urine is common in urinary tract infections and kidney stones. 3  Both of these problems usually cause pain. 4  Painless bleeding may signal a more serious problem, such as cancer. 5  Dark or orange urine.