With all that said (and to my current complaint)- after renewing my business line, I was told (by 2 different people) that our local line would be 45 dollars, $15 for long distance and $37.50 for remote forwarding. When we receive our July bill, AT&T charged us 50 dollars instead of 45 for our direct line. Suffice to say, I have been to the ATT office mentioned a total of 5-6 times since October 2014, the last time being TODAY August 19, 2015 at 1:30approx at which time I spoke to a REP. **** Williams. I explained the situation to him and showed him an Email from ATT requesting $358.60.
The Watchdog is on a mission to help AT&T succeed. When you have a complaint about the company that can’t easily be solved, send it to watchdog@dallasnews.com or by U.S. mail to me at the newspaper. Include your account number so Dale can look you up. Send it anytime. I pester Dale day and night. 
I have been with AT&T for nearly 30 years. I have a home phone, I-pad and until recently a go-phone. Two weeks ago, I was trying to determine if I wanted to change my go-phone for a smart phone and monthly plan, so I talked to a rep on the phone about what options I had. To Whom It May Concern: I'm complaining about AT&T because My husband and I received a $10 off Amazon gift card through the mail from AT&T. It said to call number, give the rep the code and you would receive your card in 8 weeks, ok. So, I did this and gave the info.
ZOMBIE EVIL PHONE COMPANY AT&T clearly does not think that the buck stops at the top of its telephone empire. If you write to complain to its CEO, its customer services staff will refer the matter to its legal department. While it is fairly obvious that the CEO of AT&T does not like to deal with the complaints of the great unwashed, it is a bit of a PR own goal of threatening someone who goes to the top with their complaints. To his surprise, he received a voicemail from AT&T's executive response staff. The gist is thanks for the feedback, and if you bother our CEO again, we're going to send you a cease and desist letter.
Was with Verizon and want to upgrade phones so we talked to AT&T and we told there is a great promotion that we would get a $200 credit after 90 days per phone for switching service. Sept 17th was 90 days. After making a complaint with the BBB I was contacted by the office of the president for AT&T. After speaking with him I was told they will do nothing for me to let me out of my contract even though it's cause of their horrible service. If I want out they want my phone I paid 400$ for and me to pay 205$ to terminate.
File a complaint by visiting support.fcc.gov, click on Complaints,,click on Filing Consumer Complaints,, click on Wireless Telephone and click on the appropriate type of complaint. Complain to the FCC by an alternative method. You may also file a complaint by telephone, fax, email or mail. Submitting Complaints. Submit complaint to AT&T. Reach customer service by calling (800) 331-0500. Submit a complaint letter to AT&T Headquarters, AT&T Inc., 175 E. Houston St., San Antonio, TX 78205. Also submit a complaint letter to the wireless division at AT&T Mobility, 5565 Glenridge Connector, Atlanta, GA 30342; send a copy to its fax at (866) 783-9099
KM. ATT.Yahoo recently added a new mail format, with an option to remain on the classic. I opted for the classic. The result has been that when I reply to emails, or create new emails my recipients get the email but not the typed content. All they see is my embedded signature and any attached filed I may have added. 