Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Neoma for girls. Neoma entered the list in 1910-1919 and reached its peak position of #742 in the U.S. during the years 1920-1929, but is not ranked currently. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014). Below is a charted analysis of the usage of Neoma and associated names. Neoma is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2175 out of 4276, Top 51%) but a unique surname for all people.
1 Your first name of Nesma gives you an independent, serious, reticent, and studious nature. 2  An intellectual, you have a deep appreciation for art, music, literature, and all the phenomena of nature. I was looking for the definition of my first name when I ran across your website, and figured why not give it a try. I was astounded to find just how accurate the profile was from my first and nicknames all the way down to the family name and what kind of atmosphere is found in our home which was right on.
Nessa /nes-sa/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of the name Nessa is pure, holy; lamb; butterfly. Nessa is a variant transcription of Agnes (Greek). Nessa is also a form of Nessie (Greek). Nessa is also used as a variant of Vanessa (Greek). Kreatif forms: Neosa, Nesma, Nesna. Nessa is a rare first name for women but a very popular last name for all people (#52500 out of 150436, Top 35%). (2000 U.S. Census). Vanessa (#171 in 2014) , Venessa, Neta, Anissa and Agnes are the popular varying forms of Nessa (outside Top 1000) ranked in the Top 1000.
Neoma /neo-ma/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Neoma is new moon . Neoma is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2175 out of 4276, Top 51%) but a unique surname for all people.
List of Australian baby names, Australian baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Australian names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Australian baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Most of us seldom have any control over our last names. We are born with it and cannot change it unless absolutely essential. The first name, however, is an entirely different story. The sky is the limit and the choices are infinite. Your baby boy or baby girl exercises this unique ability through you. Therefore, ....
Personality (Persona) Number : Soul Urge Number : We added Numerology Calculation to make it more interactive.The information provided here is not recommended by babynology.com. It is a matter of an individual's belief.We also request you not to send us any request/query regarding numerology. Most of us seldom have any control over our last names. We are born with it and cannot change it unless absolutely essential. The first name, however, is an entirely different story. The sky is the limit and the choices are infinite. Your baby boy or baby girl exercises this unique ability through you. Therefore, ....
Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. 1  Your first name of Nesma gives you an independent, serious, reticent, and studious nature. 2  An intellectual, you have a deep appreciation for art, music, literature, and all the phenomena of nature. I was looking for the definition of my first name when I ran across your website, and figured why not give it a try. I was astounded to find just how accurate the profile was from my first and nicknames all the way down to the family name and what kind of atmosphere is found in our home which was right on.