All cattle will eat primarily between 1.6% to 3.0% of their body weight per day (on a Dry-Matter [DM] basis), depending on the quality of the forage they are consuming. Dry cows, heifers, steers and bulls tend to eat around 2.0% of their body weight per day, on average. Big cows eat more than small cows, and thin cows will eat more than fat cows. Also, as you will notice in the related question posted below, moisture content in the feed and the quality of the feed will affect how much an animal will eat per day. Usually, the higher the moisture content, the more a bovine will eat.
Also, since dairy cows tend to produce twice as much milk as beef or range cows do, dairy cows tend to drink more water on average than a typical beef cow would. So a 1000 lb lactating beef cow may drink around 15 to 20 gallons per day, whereas a 1000 lb lactating dairy cow may drink around 30 to 40 gallons a day. Big cows eat more than small cows, and thin cows will eat more than fat cows. Also, as you will notice in the related question posted below, moisture content in the feed and the quality of the feed will affect how much an animal will eat per day. Usually, the higher the moisture content, the more a bovine will eat.
As a general rule, cows can eat about 1.5 to 2% of their body weight in NDF and that is the way we balance the ration with a computer. Dairy cows usually eat about 100 lbs of feed a day, beef cows about 30-50% of this amount depending on the type of feed. Dairy cows eat dry hay and haylage (fermented hay) and this account for about 30 lbs of their intake if quality is good. Beef cows would eat more hay and less starch so they could eat 15-20 lbs
A lactating cow will consume between 18 and 25 kg of dietary dry matter each day, depending on how much milk she is currently producing. Cows have access to feed and water at all times, except during milking (2 or 3 times per day). 
As a rule of thumb, a cow will eat 2 to 2.5 pounds of hay per day for each 100 pounds of body weight (about one 30- to 40-lb. bale per day). If you feed grain, the usual is 16% dairy ration, which will balance well with most pasture or hay. Another rule of thumb is to give 1 lb. of grain for every 3 lbs. of milk. 
Dairy cows eat 2% to 5% of their body weight in dry matter. Translating that into as-fed, dairy cows can eat 75 - 100 lbs of feed per day. Lactating dairy cows typically eat 50% more than a dry dairy cow. Lactating cows tend to eat more than dry cows do, eating 5% of their body weight in dry matter, whereas a dry cow will eat around 2.5% of her body weight in dry matter per day.
Lactating cows will eat 50% of that when she is dry, which is upwards around 3.0% to possibly 4.0% of her body weight per day. In terms of lbs of feed per day, bulls will eat more than cows; cows will eat more than heifers and steers, and steers tend to eat slightly more than heifers. Big cows eat more than small cows, and thin cows will eat more than fat cows. Also, as you will notice in the related question posted below, moisture content in the feed and the quality of the feed will affect how much an animal will eat per day. Usually, the higher the moisture content, the more a bovine will eat.
The average dairy cow eats three pounds of silage and one pound of hay each day for every 100 pounds of its body weight. Dairy cows also receive one pound of grain or other concentrated feed for every four to six pounds of milk they give. Cows weigh from 900 to 2,000 pounds. The average annual output of milk per cow is about 10,000 pounds. One gallon of milk weighs 8.6 pounds. Both dairy and beef cattle eat large amounts of forage, or rough feed such as clover or alfalfa. They also eat huge amounts of grass each year and turn it into meat and milk.
Lactating dairy cattle will drink 25 to 30 gallons (95 to 114  litres) of water per day (some bigger and heavier producing cows  will drink up to or around 50 gallons [189 l … itres] per day),  however, a dry dairy cow will drink 10 to 20 gallons (37 to 75  litres) of water per day. Lactating cows tend to eat more than dry cows do, eating 5% of their body weight in dry matter, whereas a dry cow will eat around 2.5% of her body weight in dry mat
1 After peak lactation, feed according to milk production. 2  Feed 0.5 pound of grain for every pound of milk over 3 pounds milk per day, along with good quality forage. 3  For example, a goat producing 8 pounds a day would get all the good forage she could eat plus 2.5 pounds (8 – 3 = 5 lb. 1 Feed 0.5 pound of grain for every pound of milk over 3 pounds milk per day, along with good quality forage. 2  For example, a goat producing 8 pounds a day would get all the good forage she could eat plus 2.5 pounds (8 – 3 = 5 lb. 3  x 0.5 lb feed/lb milk) of grain, split into two feedings.