• SOPHISTICATED (adjective). The adjective SOPHISTICATED has 3 senses: 1. having or appealing to those having worldly knowledge and refinement and savoir-faire. 2. ahead in development; complex or intricate. 3. intellectually appealing. Familiarity information: SOPHISTICATED used as an adjective is uncommon. Having or appealing to those having worldly knowledge and refinement and savoir-faire. Context examples: sophisticated young socialites / a sophisticated audience / a sophisticated lifestyle / a sophisticated book.
1 They hadn't gone to college, and they saw Father Mark as a repository of knowledge and culture and sophisticated humor. 2  In Memphis, he has an experience that makes him realize that he is not as sophisticated or worldly as he thought: he meets a boy by chance on the road, and they come upon a jug of bootleg alcohol. 1 Readers of this blog are, by definition, sophisticated and worldly-wise individuals who know full well that major film studios do not read unsolicited screenplays.
Learner's definition of SOPHISTICATED. [more sophisticated; most sophisticated]. 1. a: having or showing a lot of experience and knowledge about the world and about culture, art, literature, etc. She was a sophisticated and well-traveled woman. She has sophisticated tastes. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. Close. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of sophisticated from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
2.1 (Of a person or their thoughts, reactions, and understanding) aware of and able to interpret complex issues; subtle: discussion and reflection are necessary for a sophisticated response to a text. More example sentences. 1  In this sense, it suggested a sophisticated enemy, well aware of how modern wars are fought. 1 Readers of this blog are, by definition, sophisticated and worldly-wise individuals who know full well that major film studios do not read unsolicited screenplays.
: having or showing a lot of experience and knowledge about the world and about culture, art, literature, etc. : attractive to fashionable or sophisticated people. : highly developed and complex. Definition of SOPHISTICATED for Kids. 1. 2. : having a lot of knowledge about the world especially through experience. 3.
sophisticated adjective. B2 having a good ​understanding of the way ​people ​behave and/or a good ​knowledge of ​culture and ​fashion: She was ​slim, ​svelte, and sophisticated. I don't ​think I have any ​books that would ​suit ​your sophisticated ​tastes. › If a way of ​thinking, a ​system, or a ​machine is sophisticated, it is ​complicated or made with ​great ​skill: sophisticated ​computer ​systems. (Definition of sophisticated from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).
1 Having, revealing, or involving a great deal of worldly experience and knowledge of fashion and culture: a chic, sophisticated woman a young man with sophisticated tastes. 1 Readers of this blog are, by definition, sophisticated and worldly-wise individuals who know full well that major film studios do not read unsolicited screenplays.
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. sophisticated 1 adj A sophisticated machine, device, or method is more advanced or complex than others. Honeybees use one of the most sophisticated communication systems of any insect., ...a large and sophisticated new British telescope. 3 adj A sophisticated person is intelligent and knows a lot, so that they are able to understand complicated situations. These people are very sophisticated observers of the foreign policy scene. Translation English Cobuild Collins Dictionary &nbsp.