What evidence is there that certain deficiency diseases are caused by lack of certain nutrients? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. For how long have Lianne and Marty been married in the beginning of the movie, and when do they begin experiencing relationship troubles? A certain virus ... Scientists fed the laboratory animals with a diet, which was purely composed of proteins, fats and carbohydrates. The animals suffered many deficiency diseases. They were cured by supplementing some vitamins in small quantity. Step by step the role of each vitamin was known.
2. Courtesy of Blatner.com. This condition is brought on by a lack of vitamin D, which causes the body to be unable to absorb or deposit calcium. Less commonly, it can also be caused by a lack of calcium or phosphorus, but vitamin D deficiency is by far the most common cause. Even into the 20th century, conditions caused by a lack of certain vitamins or minerals were endemic to North America and Europe. Artificially added nutrients may not make a food “healthy,” but they do stave off several debilitating, and sometimes fatal, diseases of malnutrition.
Cook the grits for 50 minutes if the grits were soaked overnight or else 90 minutes if not.. Pellagra is a vitamin deficiency disease most frequently caused by a chronic lack of niacin (vitamin B 3 or synonym: vitamin PP (from: Pellagra Preventing factor)) in the diet. 
What evidence is there that certain deficiency diseases are caused by lack of certain nutrients? The evidence goes back as far as the 17th century when it was realised that the disease called rickets suffered by seamen could be removed by regularly drinking lemon-juice. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A nutrient deficiency disease is when your body is not consuming the right amount of a certain nutrient, therefor it is deficient. It can also be when your body is unable to absorb nutrients due to an abnormality.
A poor diet that lacks essential nutrients generally causes nutritional deficiencies. The body stores nutrients. Therefore, a deficiency is usually detected after a prolonged lack of a nutrient. A number of diseases and conditions—including colon cancer and gastrointestinal conditions—can lead to an iron deficiency. Pregnancy can also cause a deficiency if the body diverts iron to the fetus.
For much of human history, diseases of nutrient deficiency were the norm, and in some parts of the world, they still persist. Even into the 20th century, conditions caused by a lack of certain vitamins or minerals were endemic to North America and Europe. Artificially added nutrients may not make a food “healthy,” but they do stave off several debilitating, and sometimes fatal, diseases of malnutrition. Here are a few of those maladies
Photo by: Gravicapa. Dietary deficiencies are disorders that occur because of a lack of essential nutrients in the diet, or because the body cannot absorb and process those nutrients once they are eaten. Most dietary deficiency diseases are caused by a lack of protein, vitamins, or minerals. Protein deficiency diseases occur when a person does not eat enough protein; these diseases are prevalent in developing countries where people are too poor to buy protein-rich foods or where such foods are hard to find. 
A nutrient deficiency disease is when your body is not consuming the right amount of a certain nutrient, therefor it is deficient. It can also be when your body is unable to a … bsorb nutrients due to an abnormality. + 3 others found this useful. Scientists fed the laboratory animals with a diet, which was purely composed of proteins, fats and carbohydrates. The animals suffered many deficiency diseases. They were cured by supplementing some vitamins in small quantity. Step by step the role of each vitamin was known.
That is a very good question! Scientists fed the laboratory animals with a diet, which was purely composed of proteins, fats and carbohydrates. The animals suffered many deficiency diseases. They were cured by supplementing some vitamins in small quantity. Step by step the role of each vitamin was known.
Causes. Vitamin deficiency anemia occurs when your body doesn't have enough of the vitamins needed to produce adequate numbers of healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen from your lungs throughout your body. If your diet is lacking in certain vitamins, vitamin deficiency anemia can develop. Or vitamin deficiency anemia may develop because your body can't properly absorb the nutrients from the foods you eat. Causes of vitamin deficiency anemias, also known as megaloblastic anemias, include: