Dallas Cowboys sign former Boise State QB Kellen Moore. The Dallas Cowboys on Sunday added depth behind Tony Romo when they signed former Detroit Lions backup quarterback Kellen Moore, according to the Idaho Statesman. Email. Former Detroit Lions backup quarterback Kellen Moore has signed with the Dallas Cowboys, he confirmed to Chadd Cripe of the Idaho Statesman. Moore, 26, was signed by the Lions as an undrafted free agent in 2012. He has yet to appear in a regular season game
Dealing a major blow to the Dallas Cowboys, their star quarterback Tony Romo left Sunday’s 20-10 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles with a broken left clavicle. He did not return and may be out for an extended amount of time. Romo’s official status is expected to be announced tomorrow. The Cowboys do not have a third quarterback on the roster, so the team will presumably be on the market for a veteran backup. Speculation about a possible big-name replacement has been rampant on social media.
Matt Flynn may be best option for the Dallas Cowboys, who are thin at quarterback. Getty. The Dallas Cowboys decided to just have two quarterbacks on their 53-man roster to start the season. But after a Week 2 injury to Tony Romo, the Cowboys will almost certainly need to add another quarterback this week. Romo suffered a left clavicle injury on Sunday against the Philadelphia Eagles and did not return to the game. Romo was replaced by Brandon Weeden, a veteran who received playing time with the Cleveland Browns in 2012 and 2013. While Weeden is an acceptable backup, the Cowboys should be on the search for another quarterback.
Assessing the Dallas Cowboys' backup quarterback situation if Tony Romo is injured and misses time. The Cowboys don't mess around when it comes to their backup quarterback situation. The way Jon Kitna continued to run the offense in the second half of 2010 after Romo was injured proved to them the worth of a capable veteran backup. So when Kitna retired at the end of the 2011 season, one of the Cowboys' first free-agent priorities was signing Kyle Orton to a three-year, $10.5 million contract. An expensive insurance policy to say the least, but Orton has started 69 NFL games over the past seven years and is 35-34 in them.
The Lions have just two quarterbacks under contract—starter Matt Stafford and longtime backup Dan Orlovsky. Signing Moore gives the Cowboys three quarterbacks, along with Tony Romo and Brandon Weeden. Moore starred at Boise State, where he was a four-year starter. Email. Former Detroit Lions backup quarterback Kellen Moore has signed with the Dallas Cowboys, he confirmed to Chadd Cripe of the Idaho Statesman. Moore, 26, was signed by the Lions as an undrafted free agent in 2012. He has yet to appear in a regular season game
Matt Flynn: The journeyman backup quarterback was released by the New York Jets on Sept. 5, but has experience replacing an injured star in his stints with Green Bay. If the Cowboys need an experienced backup now behind Weeden, Flynn would be a decent option. 6 QBs the Cowboys could acquire to replace Tony Romo. Lindsay H. Jones, USA TODAY Sports 10:58 a.m. EDT September 21, 2015. USA TODAY Sports' Tom Pelissero looks at what we learned in Week 2 of the NFL season, and what it means moving forward.
6 QBs the Cowboys could acquire to replace Tony Romo. Though the Dallas Cowboys have yet to rule quarterback Tony Romo out for the rest of the season, they surely have to spend several weeks – if not months – without their star quarterback after he suffered a broken left collarbone Sunday. Post to Facebook. Cancel Send. 6 QBs the Cowboys could acquire to replace Tony Romo. Lindsay H. Jones, USA TODAY Sports 10:58 a.m. EDT September 21, 2015. USA TODAY Sports' Tom Pelissero looks at what we learned in Week 2 of the NFL season, and what it means moving forward.