CH-47 Chinook – Military Transport Helicopter. Since being launched introduction in 1962, the CH-47 Chinook has been known as the primary workhorse helicopter of the US Army. The CH-47 takes its name from the very strong Chinook winds that blow over the Rocky Mountain States and onto the plains
The Boeing CH-47 Chinook is an American twin-engine, tandem rotor heavy-lift helicopter. Its primary roles are troop movement, artillery placement and battlefield resupply. 
CH-47 Chinook Customers. The Chinook is a multi-mission aircraft in use by U.S. Army, U.S. Army Reserve, National Guard and more than 19 countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Japan, Italy, Greece, Spain, South Korea, Australia and the United Arab Emirates. 1 The Chinook is a true multi-role, vertical-lift platform. 2  Its primary mission is transport of troops, artillery, equipment, and fuel. 3  The current CH-47F/MH-47G modernization programs will ensure this tandem rotor helicopter remains in the Army fleet through the 2030s.
The Boeing CH-47 Chinook is an American twin-engine, tandem rotor heavy-lift helicopter. Its primary roles are troop movement, artillery placement and battlefield resupply. It has a wide loading ramp at the rear of the fuselage and three external-cargo hooks. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Boeing Chinook is a tandem rotor helicopter operated by the Royal Air Force (RAF). A series of variants based on the United States Army 's Boeing CH-47 Chinook, the RAF Chinook fleet is the largest outside the United States. In March 1967 an order was placed for fifteen Chinook HC Mk1s, standing for Helicopter, Cargo Mark 1, for the Royal Air Force to replace the Bristol Belvedere. This original MK1 variant was to be based on the CH-47B but the order was cancelled in a review of defence spending in November 1967.
The CH-47 Chinook helicopter has been around for nearly 50 years, but 50 years later it is still an amazing aircraft. Here are a few of the things that make it amazing: Twin 60 foot rotors give the helicopter amazing lift -- it can haul up to 28,000 pounds of cargo either inside or attached to exterior hooks. 
The CH-47/MH-47 U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) modernization program is in full rate production and will ensure that aircraft are sustained at least through 2030. According to Boeing, it is not unlikely that Chinook helicopters will be Army aviation assets for a century or more. The CH-47F is expected to remain the Army's heavy lift helicopter until at least the 2038 timeframe. The CH-47 is built and assembled at Boeing's production facility in Ridley Park, PA. The Chinook is the most reliable and efficient transport helicopter in the world, capable of handling loads of up to 25,000 pounds.
More about the CH-47 Chinook. The CH-47 Chinook is arguably the most successful military transport helicopter to date. The Chinook is manufactured by Boeing Rotorcraft Systems at their Ridley Park plant in Pennsylvania. First test flights took place in September 1961 and production started the following year. Since being launched introduction in 1962, the CH-47 Chinook has been known as the primary workhorse helicopter of the US Army. The CH-47 takes its name from the very strong Chinook winds that blow over the Rocky Mountain States and onto the plains
The Boeing CH-47/MH-47 Chinook is a tandem rotor, twin engine, heavy-lift helicopter designed to transport artillery, troops, ammunition, fuel and supplies within military theaters of operation. The legacy of the Chinook began in 1958 and continues today with the CH-47F and MH-47G configurations. The CH-47 is built and assembled at Boeing's production facility in Ridley Park, PA. The Chinook is the most reliable and efficient transport helicopter in the world, capable of handling loads of up to 25,000 pounds.