The rumen and reticulum (reticulo-rumen) is the largest compartment of the cow’s stomach. Fiber, starch, sugar, and proteins are fermented by the microbes to form volatile fatty acids and microbial protein. Rumen papillae absorb volatile fatty acids.
A continuous presence of volatile fatty acids maintains rumen papillae growth, size, and function (Warner et al., 1956). Therefore, it is likely that diets composed of milk, concentrates, or forages affect the rate and extent of rumen epithelial growth differently.
lacrimal papilla an elevation on the margin of either eyelid, near the medial angle of the eye. lingual papillae elevations on the surface of the tongue, containing the taste buds; the conical, filiform, foliate, fungiform, and vallate papillae. mammary papilla nipple (def. 1). optic papilla optic disk.
It is of considerable practical importance that the size and length of ruminal papillae respond to concentrations of VFA in the rumen. Animals that have been on a high plane of nutrition, with abundant VFA production, have long, luxuriant papillae well suited to promote absorption.
papilla. [pəpil′ə] pl. papillae. Etymology: L, nipple. 1 a small nipple-shaped projection, such as the conoid papillae of the tongue and the papillae of the dermis that extend from collagen fibers, the capillary blood vessels, and sometimes the nerves of the dermis.
The interior surface of the rumen forms numerous papillae. The papillae can be long and foliated or short and pointed. They are up to 6mm in length. Animals fed on rough grass or in the dry season have longer papillae, whereas animals fed on digestible feed or in the wet season have shorter papillae (1-2mm in length).
papilla(e) (pəpil´ə) , n a small, nipple-shaped elevation. Papillae. papilla, incisive, n the elevation of soft tissue covering the foramen of the incisive or nasopalatine canal.
Bergmeister's papilla A cone-shaped, sheath of glial cells (astrocytes) and connective tissue covering the hyaloid artery formed during embryonic development over the optic disc and projecting into the vitreous humour.
The rumen wall (or mucosa) is a major site of nutrient absorption. It is convoluted to give it tremendous surface area for absorption. Rumen papillae (thousands of finger-like projections on the inside surface of the rumen) are responsible for absorbing the volatile fatty acids from the rumen for use by the cow.