RE: End stage before dying of Pancreatic Cancer. by danshan on Thu Aug 11, 2011 10:53 PM. Hi all, i feel all your pain my mam was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer on the 5th may this year we were horrified to discover mam also had it in the liver and the lungs. No signs or symptoms just routine blood test. We called hospice who said we were over medicating him. He was like in a kind of coma but was also screaming with excrutiating pain. Hospice called an ambulance which took him to the hospital. The doctor at the hospital said he was not over medicated but that he was in end stage cancer and would not live over 24 hours.
Unfortunately, many patients are not diagnosed until the last stages of pancreatic cancer. In stage IV of the disease, pain maintenance is the main concern. slide 1 of 4. In the last stages of pancreatic cancer there is nothing else that can be done except to keep the patient comfortable. The harsh reality of this disease is not what the patient, family or friends want to hear, however these unfortunately are the facts.
Stage is a term used in cancer treatment to describe the extent of the cancer 's spread. The stages of pancreatic cancer are used to guide treatment and to classify patients for clinical trials. The stages of pancreatic cancer are: 1  Stage 0: No spread. 2  Pancreatic cancer is limited to a single layer of cells in the pancreas. 3  The pancreatic cancer is not visible on imaging tests or even to the naked eye. 4  Stage I: Local growth
Read More. Pancreatic cancer is one of the most silent types of cancer that is very difficult to detect, thus often leads to death because it is either undiagnosed or it has been discovered during the later stages of the disease. My father is in the last stages of liver cancer. The Dr's say it is colon cancer (he beat it 7 years ago) that has moved to his liver. He is at home and is sleeping more and more.
1 N stages-There are 2 main N stages. 2  This shows if pancreatic cancer has spread to the lymph nodes (N1) or not (N0). 3  M stages-There are 2 M stages. 4  This shows if the cancer has spread to distant body parts, like the liver or lungs (M1), or not (M0). This system describes the size of a primary tumour (T), whether there are lymph nodes with cancer cells in them (N) and if the cancer has spread to a different part of the body (M). 1  T stages-There are 5 stages of tumour size in pancreatic cancer. 2  Tis (carcinoma in situ) is the smallest and T4 is the largest.
Number stages of cancer of the pancreas. Once the TNM categories have been decided, this information can be grouped together to give the stage a number from 1 to 4. Stage 1 is the earliest stage and stage 4 is the most advanced stage of pancreatic cancer. This system describes the size of a primary tumour (T), whether there are lymph nodes with cancer cells in them (N) and if the cancer has spread to a different part of the body (M). 1  T stages-There are 5 stages of tumour size in pancreatic cancer. 2  Tis (carcinoma in situ) is the smallest and T4 is the largest.
Pancreatic cancer typically spreads rapidly and is seldom detected in its early stages, which is a major reason why it's a leading cause of cancer death. Signs and symptoms may not appear until pancreatic cancer is quite advanced and complete surgical removal isn't possible. 1  Symptoms. 
Next. my grand father has been diagnosed with pancreas cancer and been told he has less than a week, i was just wondering what the final stages are and what the signs of the last few days are like. at the moment he is in hospital and the toxin that was in his liver has travelled to his brain and he doesn't recognise us. 
1 T stages-There are 5 stages of tumour size in pancreatic cancer. 2  Tis (carcinoma in situ) is the smallest and T4 is the largest. 3  N stages-There are 2 main N stages. 4  This shows if pancreatic cancer has spread to the lymph nodes (N1) or not (N0). 5  M stages-There are 2 M stages. This system describes the size of a primary tumour (T), whether there are lymph nodes with cancer cells in them (N) and if the cancer has spread to a different part of the body (M). 1 
Just like stomach cancer, pancreatic cancer slowly sips in and then explodes like a bomb when you least expect it. The problem with this type of cancer is that it is usually detected when the cancer has already grown outside the pancreas. My father is in the last stages of liver cancer. The Dr's say it is colon cancer (he beat it 7 years ago) that has moved to his liver. He is at home and is sleeping more and more.