Spastic cerebral palsy is the most common type of cerebral palsy. The muscles of people with spastic cerebral palsy appear stiff and their movements may look stiff and jerky. Spasticity is a form of hypertonia, or increased muscle tone. When people without cerebral palsy perform a movement, some groups of muscles turn on and some groups of muscles turn off. In people with spastic cerebral palsy, both groups of muscles may become turned on at the same time. Spastic Cerebral Palsy Spastic cerebral palsy is the most common type of cerebral palsy. The muscles of people with spastic cerebral palsy appear stiff and their movements may look stiff... https://www.cerebralpalsy.org.au/what-is-cerebral-palsy/types-of-cerebral-palsy/spastic-cerebral-palsy/.
Children with cerebral palsy (CP), a brain injury that affects motor function, can develop a number of musculoskeletal problems relating to altered growth-deformities of the bone, joint dislocations, and tight tendons and muscles-as well as increased muscle tone caused by “misfiring” circuits in the brain. For children who are able to walk, maintaining and optimizing that ability, and the independence it affords, is a primary goal. Treatment goals for children with cerebral palsy who are not able to walk focus on helping the child maintain comfortable, balanced, and level seating in a wheelchair.
, 2009, 75, 808-814 Does tendon lengthening surgery affect muscle tonein children with Cerebral Palsy? Maria V LACHOU ,Rosemary P IERCE ,Rita Miranda D AVIS ,Michael S USSMAN From Shriners Hospitals for Children, Portland, Oregon, USA ORIGINAL STUDY ■ Maria Vlachou, MD, Clinical Fellow in PediatricOrthopaedics. Acta Orthopaedica Orthopædica, Belgica. vol - 75 - 6 2009 MUSCLE TONE IN CHILDREN WITH CEREBRAL palsy 813 methodology and research Limitations this study aimed to document the effect oftendon lengthening surgery on muscle tone in-chil dren with cerebral. palsy
It is not unusual for an individual with cerebral palsy to undergo surgery on feet, ankles, legs, hips, wrists, arms, or shoulders, as well as on muscles, tendons, bones, or nerves, depending on treatment goals. Each individual’s circumstance is unique, and his or her treatment will be unique, as well. However, while surgery cannot correct the brain injury that caused cerebral palsy, it is sometimes warranted in treatment of the resulting impairment or health conditions. The treatment goal is to help the child achieve an optimum level of ambulation, functioning, and appearance
Patients who undergo selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) surgery at St. Louis Children’s Hospital’s Center for Cerebral Palsy Spasticity often need an additional surgical procedure for muscle/tendon lengthening to relieve contracture (limited motion) in their joints. 
In a person with cerebral palsy, damage to the brain has occurred. For reasons that are still unclear, the damage tends to be in the area of the brain that controls muscle tone and movement of the arms and legs. About Cerebral Palsy Spasticity. Cerebral Palsy (CP). Cerebral palsy affects movement and posture and is caused by brain damage before, during, or after birth. The brain damage underlying CP cannot be reversed and produces life-long disabilities.
Orthopedic Surgery for Cerebral Palsy. Guide. Orthopedic surgery is used to treat tight muscles and spasticity related to cerebral palsy. An incision is made in the skin over the affected muscle. Parts of the muscle are then cut to release the tightness. Why It Is Done. The type of orthopedic surgery done to treat problems from cerebral palsy depends on which muscle groups are affected. Some basic goals are to loosen the: 1  Muscles that make the hips turn toward the body (partial release of the hip adductor muscles).
1 Muscle and tendon lengthening procedures: Tendon lengthenings have always been a mainstay of the treatment of children with cerebral palsy; however, recent research has shown that, despite short-term improvements in walking, they can sometimes result in weakness in the long-term. For children who are able to walk, maintaining and optimizing that ability, and the independence it affords, is a primary goal. Treatment goals for children with cerebral palsy who are not able to walk focus on helping the child maintain comfortable, balanced, and level seating in a wheelchair.