Cancer that starts in your colon can sometimes spread to other parts of your body, including the liver. Another name for this cancer is metastatic, or stage IV, colon cancer. Your doctor might find that the cancer has spread to your liver when he first diagnoses you with colon cancer. Or after you've been treated, the colon cancer can come back and spread to the liver. About half of people with colorectal cancer will develop cancer that has spread
Stage IV colon cancer commonly spreads to the liver or the lungs. Some patients who have cancer that has spread to a single area are candidates for surgery to remove the metastases. Treatment of the liver: When it’s possible to completely surgically remove all liver metastases, surgery is the preferred treatment. When the site of metastasis is a single organ (such as the liver), and the cancer is confined to a single defined area within the organ, patients may benefit from local treatment directed at that single metastasis. The majority of patients diagnosed with Stage IV colon cancer have unresectable or widespread disease.
The types of symptoms depend on the size of the cancer and where in your body it has spread. Some people with colon cancer that has spread to the liver don't have any symptoms. Or you might have symptoms like: 1  Blood in the stool. 2  Pain in the right side of your belly. 3  Swelling in your belly. 4  Tired, sick feeling. 5  Weight loss. Another name for this cancer is metastatic, or stage IV, colon cancer. Your doctor might find that the cancer has spread to your liver when he first diagnoses you with colon cancer. Or after you've been treated, the colon cancer can come back and spread to the liver.
Bowel cancer can spread (metastasise) to various other organs, most commonly to the liver. Liver metastases occur in more than half of patients with bowel cancer and can often be treated surgically, or in combination with other treatments. The bowel and liver cancer link. Bowel cancer is the third most common malignant Describes a tumour resulting from uncontrolled cell division that can invade other tissues and may spread to distant parts of the body.
Secondary liver cancer. Where a cancer starts is called the primary cancer. If some cells break away from the primary cancer, they can move through the bloodstream or lymph system and spread to another part of the body, where they can form a new tumour. This is called a secondary cancer. The secondary cancer is made of the same type of cells as the primary cancer. So, for example, if your cancer started in your bowel and has spread to your liver, the bowel cells have first become cancerous, then spread from the bowel tumour and formed another tumour in your liver.
Treatments for advanced bowel cancer. Advanced bowel (colorectal) cancer means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body from where it started in the large bowel (colon) or back passage (rectum). Your cancer may be advanced when it is first diagnosed. We have more information about how cancer can spread. Remember the most important thing is where the cancer started. Having bowel cancer cells in your liver doesn't mean that you have liver cancer. You have bowel cancer that has spread – it is also called secondary
Cancer cells can also break away and spread to other parts of the body such as the liver and lungs. Blood from the bowel flows directly to the liver. This means the liver is a common place for colorectal cancer to spread to. Colorectal cancer typically spreads to the liver before it spreads to other sites. Cancer has already spread to the liver in about 25% of people who are diagnosed with colorectal cancer. 
It is a common treatment for cancer that has spread to the liver. The aim of chemotherapy is to help control the growth of your cancer and symptoms. The type of chemotherapy you have will depend on your type of primary cancer. You can find out more in the chemotherapy section for your type of cancer. The secondary cancer is made of the same type of cells as the primary cancer. So, for example, if your cancer started in your bowel and has spread to your liver, the bowel cells have first become cancerous, then spread from the bowel tumour and formed another tumour in your liver.
Stage IV. The cancer has spread from the colon to distant organs and tissues. Colon cancer most often spreads to the liver, but it can also spread to other places such as the lungs, peritoneum (the lining of the abdominal cavity), or distant lymph nodes. In most cases surgery is unlikely to cure these cancers. 
Sometimes the cancer is found to have spread to the liver at the same time the colon or rectal cancer is diagnosed. Although many patients may not have symptoms, you may present with symptoms that include: 1  Weight loss. 2  Blood in the stool / change in the size of your stools. 3  Fatigue. 