The carbon atom shares two pairs of electrons with each of the oxygen atoms, and each of these double bonds has a bond energy of 187 kcal (or about 93 kcal for each shared pair of electrons). The larger the bond energy, the more energy is needed to break the bond. 1 The bond energy of H-H bonds is 103 kcal. 2  The bond energy of the O=O bonds is 116 kcal. 3  The decomposition of 2 molecules of water requires breaking 4 H-O bonds and thus the input of 440 kcal. 4  The formation of 2 moles of hydrogen yields 206 kcal (2 x 103). 5  The formation of 1 mole of oxygen yield
A simple view of double covalent bonds A double covalent bond is where two pairs of electrons are shared between the atoms rather than just one pair. Some simple molecules containing double bonds Oxygen, O2 Two oxygen atoms can both achieve stable structures by sharing two pairs of electrons as in the diagram. The double bond is shown conventionally by two lines joining the atoms. Each line represents one pair of shared electrons
Carbon monoxide consists of one carbon atom and one oxygen atom, connected by a triple bond that consists of two covalent bonds as well as one dative covalent bond. Carbon and oxygen together have a total of 10 valence electrons in carbon monoxide. To satisfy the octet rule for the carbon, the two atoms form a triple bond, with six shared electrons in three bonding molecular orbitals, rather than the usual double bond found in organic carbonyl compounds.
Carbon and oxgen-CO-normally 1 carbon and 2 oxygen CO2. This is covalent. 
Bond Energy. For any particular chemical bond, say the covalent bond between hydrogen and oxygen, the amount of energy it takes to break that bond is exactly the same as the amount of energy released when the bond is formed. This value is called the bond energy. 1 The bond energy of H-H bonds is 103 kcal. 2  The bond energy of the O=O bonds is 116 kcal. 3  The decomposition of 2 molecules of water requires breaking 4 H-O bonds and thus the input of 440 kcal. 4  The formation of 2 moles of hydrogen yields 206 kcal (2 x 103). 5  The formation of 1 mole of oxygen yield
A carbon–oxygen bond is a covalent bond between carbon and oxygen. Bond lengths of C=O bonds are around 123 pm in carbonyl compounds. The C=O bonds in acyl halides have partial triple bond character and are subsequently very short: 117 pm. Compounds with formal C–O triple bonds do not exist except for carbon monoxide, which has a very short, strong bond (112.8 pm).
The bond between two hydrogen atoms is a nonpolar covalent bond because each atom has the same electronegativity. Because the electronegativities of chlorine and bromine are only slightly different, the bond between them is slightly polar. 
Oxygen has 6 valence electrons and prefers to either share two electrons in bonding with carbon, leaving the 4 nonbonding electrons in 2 lone pairs :O: ó or to share two pairs of electrons to form the carbonyl functional. group Bond lengths of C=O bonds are around 123 pm in carbonyl compounds. The C=O bonds in acyl halides have partial triple bond character and are subsequently very short: 117 pm. Compounds with formal C–O triple bonds do not exist except for carbon monoxide, which has a very short, strong bond (112.8 pm).
Report Abuse. The bond between Hydrogen and Oxygen is known as a hydrogen bond. The bond between Carbon and Oxygen and the bond between Carbon and Hydrogen are covalent bonds. Want more information. Visit the links below. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydrogen_bo... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Covalent_bo..