1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 You can maximize the shelf life of chicken in the freezer by overwrapping the original store packaging with airtight heavy-duty aluminum foil, plastic wrap, or freezer paper or place the package inside a heavy-duty freezer bag in order to prevent freezer burn.
Wondering how long can you store cooked chicken? Well the answer is about 4 months. Cooked chicken like stews and soups can also be frozen and then stored in the freezer for about 2 to 3 months. Cooked chicken has a greater possibility of spoiling and contamination. It is best not to freeze cooked chicken for long periods of time. While storing chicken in the freezer, you must have wondered, how long can you safely freeze chicken safely, without any fear of spoilage. The answer to that question depends on whether you are storing cooked chicken or raw chicken. You can freeze uncooked or raw chicken pieces for up to 9 months in the refrigerator. If it is a whole chicken you are freezing, then you can freeze it up to a year without it spoiling. Minced chicken can be stored in the freezer for about 3 months
(Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. 
1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 1 Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 2  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 3
Report Abuse. Chicken that has been frozen properly will last 3 months if frozen in the stores package. If repackaged into freezes bags and all air removed it will last up to 6 months. The store packaged frozen chicken is safe to eat but you may find some freezer burn which will effect the taste and be a little tough. If your chicken was super-fresh when you put it in the freezer, it should be okay for about 9 months (your freezer may be different).
A whole chicken can keep up to a year in the freezer. Frozen chicken parts can last up to 9 months. But that will depend on how good the freezer is at maintaining temperature and how well the chicken is packaged for freezing. Make sure the chicken is packed securely and air-tight. Use packaging designed for freezing. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 7 people found this useful.
Things I keep in a door of the frost-free freezer over my fridge can get quite freezer burned within a month. Takes much longer for that to happen to something in the colder and lesser air current of a top-open deep freeze. In a good freezer, I'd say 3-6 months is not a problem. – zanlok Jan 19 '11 at 21:06. The temperature of your freezer is affected by how full your freezer is, how well you maintain it (keeping it from icing up) and the quality of your freezer. If your freezer is constantly at or below -18°C and the chicken was bought frozen tests have shown little measurable change at 12 months.