This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman,  which is closer to around 9 months o … r ~260 days.    However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days  to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition  and nutritional health. Length of gestation is primarily an  inherited trait, but has nothing to do with the rate of maturity of  a certain breed or an individual animal. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition and nutritional health. Gestation period is also controlled by genetics, but not rate of maturity.
1 In comparing the gestation periods of the above cows with the gestation periods of the calves they produced, it was found that four of the eleven eases showed a decided tendency for the calves of a cow to have gestation periods similar in length to her own. 1 6. 2  The least variation in length of gestation observed for 29 cows that had each produced six or more calves was six days. 3  The greatest variation was 20 days. 4  The length of gestation periods of some cows were quite uniform, while others varied widely.
Duration [edit]. For most species, the amount a fetus grows before birth determines the length of the gestation period. Smaller species normally have a shorter gestation period than larger animals. For example, a cat's gestation normally takes 58–65 days while an elephant's takes nearly 2 years (21 months). However, growth does not necessarily determine the length of gestation for all species, especially for those with a breeding season. 
This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman,  which is closer to around 9 months o … r ~260 days.    However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days  to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition  and nutritional health. Length of gestation is primarily an  inherited trait, but has nothing to do with the rate of maturity of  a certain breed or an individual animal. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition
The Gestation Period for Cattle is approximately 279-292 days from the first mating or about 9 months long. The typical calf weighs between 55 and 100 pounds. Cows will generally conceive after one breeding. The Cow Pregnancy Calculator above attempts to generalize the estimation of the due date without any additional factors using a 285 day gestation period for Cattle.
Answers. Best Answer: On average, the gestation period or length-of-pregnancy of a cow is 285 days long. This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman, which is closer to around 9 months or ~260 days. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition and nutritional health. Early-maturing breeds typically have a gestation period from 270 to 280 days. Best Answer: On average, the gestation period or length-of-pregnancy of a cow is 285 days long
1 8. 2  In comparing the gestation periods of the above cows with the gestation periods of the calves they produced, it was found that four of the eleven eases showed a decided tendency for the calves of a cow to have gestation periods similar in length to her own. 1 6. 2  The least variation in length of gestation observed for 29 cows that had each produced six or more calves was six days. 3  The greatest variation was 20 days. 4  The length of gestation periods of some cows were quite uniform, while others varied widely.
On average, the gestation period or length-of-pregnancy of a cow is 285 days long. This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman, which is closer to around 9 months or ~2 … 60 days. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition and nutritional health. Gestation period is also controlled by genetics, but not rate of maturity.
This is similar to the pregnancy period of a woman, which is closer to around 9 months or ~260 days. However, actual gestation period of a cow can range from 270 days to 295 days, depending primarily on breed[s], age, body condition and nutritional health. Gestation period is also controlled by genetics, but not rate of maturity