You can get a titer for parvo and distemper to reassure yourself that your dog is protected. But if she had even one parvo/distemper puppy shot after 15 or 16 weeks of age, she is likely protected according to research.
Understanding titer tests The term titer refers to the strength or concentration of a substance in a solution. When testing vaccine titers in dogs, a veterinarian takes a blood sample from a dog and has the blood tested for the presence and strength of the dog s immunological response to a viral disease.
It is the trend to check an animal’s titer to a vaccine on a yearly basis, instead of vaccinating. A titer is a blood test that measures the amount of antibody in the blood to a given disease agent. So, for example, a parvo titer would show the amount of antibody against parvovirus that a dog has in her blood.
TAKE THE TITER TEST Testing a dog s serum antibody titers can prevent overvaccinating by Lorie Long from Whole Dog Journal. Taking blood for an annual titer test, to check a dog s level of immune defenses, should replace the habit of vaccinating dogs annually whether or not they need it.
A Valley Fever test, Cocci test, or Cocci titer checks the blood to see if your dog is making antibodies against the Valley Fever fungus. If the test is positive, it means your dog has been infected with the fungus. If the Valley Fever test is positive, the laboratory then performs a titer.
A Blood Titer Test for pet dogs and cats is required by many rabies-free countries and some countries with a rabies-controlled (third) countries in order for dogs and cats to qualify for a reduced quarantine period or no quarantine at all when they are traveling from qualified areas.
In other words, a positive vaccine titer test for parvo and distemper can put your mind at ease and should put your veterinarian s mind at ease that your dog is adequately immunized against the core disease vaccinations he has received.
Request A Test offers the most comprehensive selection of Blood Titer Tests online. Titer tests are used to determine a person’s immune status to certain illnesses and bacteria by screening for various types of antibodies.