The trailers started running in theaters many months before the movie came out, and I knew right away that The Core was ripe for a BA review. I remember distinctly that one line in the trailer said that the reversal of the Earth's magnetic field wipes out all life every 700,000 years. The real situation is far more complicated, as life, in general, is messier than an oversimplified movie review. The Earth's core isn't just spinning; there are currents inside it, and other factors which influence the Earth's magnetic field.
Whether Earth did or didn’t have a magnetic field would make no difference as far as microwave radiation is concerned. First, the magnetic field doesn’t affect it, and second, there’s very little of it in the first place. The Sun emits lots of electromagnetic radiation but most of it is visible light. BEST bad physics movie EVER. (Laughingly bad science in “The Core”). by Stephanie Chasteen on. Keyes proceeds to demonstrate the effects of losing the magnetic field by lighting the aerosol from a can of hair spray and flaming a peach representing Earth.
The core of the Earth is tremendously hot, so hot that the electrons in the iron have been stripped from the nuclei of the atoms. Since it's spinning, the charges are moving, so you get a magnetic field. The real situation is far more complicated, as life, in general, is messier than an oversimplified movie review. The Earth's core isn't just spinning; there are currents inside it, and other factors which influence the Earth's magnetic field.
Earth's electromagnetic field is created by a spinning molten iron outer core The movie states that the Earth's EM field is created as a result of the liquid outer core spinning in one direction at roughly equal and constant velocity all over. • Yes, magnetism is caused by moving charges. Earth's molten iron outer core has stopped rotating. The cause for the movie's scenario of the Earth's EM field to start to collapse is that the Earth's outer core, which is a ball of molten iron the size of Mars spinning at 1,000 miles an hour, somehow stopped spinning, all of a sudden. • This is simply impossible.
Answers. Best Answer: The Core plot summary The molten metal core of the earth is slowing down and will eventualy stop, and the magnetic field of the earth, which is driven by the spinning core, is dying as well. 
As stated in the movie, we have drilled into the crust to extract core samples for study and it is factual that scientists have only been able to penetrate about 10km (6.2 mi) into the crust to the top of the upper mantle but to date no one has drilled down into the mantle. The fluid core, with a radius of 2200 miles, is always in motion, spinning once a day at about 550 miles per hour at the outer edge of the equator. The exact motion of the outer core fluid is not fully understood.
Description [from Freebase]. The Core is a 2003 American disaster film. It concerns a team that has to drill to the center of the Earth and set off a series of nuclear explosions in order to restart the rotation of Earth's core. The film was directed by Jon Amiel, and starred Aaron Eckhart, Delroy Lindo, Tcheky Tchéky, Karyo Hilary, SWANK Dj qualls And Bruce. greenwood After a series of disturbances caused by instability in the Earth's electromagnetic field, leading geology expert Dr. Josh Keyes (Aaron Eckhart) and fellow scientists Serge Leveque (Tcheky Tchéky) karyo And Conrad (Zimsky Stanley) tucci learn that The'earth s molten core has ceased its. rotation
Earth's electromagnetic field is created by a spinning molten iron outer core. The movie states that the Earth's EM field is created as a result of the liquid outer core spinning in one direction at roughly equal and constant velocity all over. Earth's molten iron outer core has stopped rotating. The cause for the movie's scenario of the Earth's EM field to start to collapse is that the Earth's outer core, which is a ball of molten iron the size of Mars spinning at 1,000 miles an hour, somehow stopped spinning, all of a sudden. • This is simply impossible.
Whether Earth did or didn't have a magnetic field would make no difference as far as microwave radiation is concerned. First, the magnetic field doesn't affect it, and second, there's very little of it in the first place. The Sun emits lots of electromagnetic radiation but most of it is visible light. 