Universal Set and Subset. Before we define complement of a set, we should define universal set and subset because these terms will be used often in this lesson. A universal set is the set of all elements that are under consideration for a particular problem or situation. x subset of the universal set. 
In Probability, the Complement of an event is all outcomes that are NOT the event. Example (dice): When the event is {5, 6} the complement is {1, 2, 3, 4} Together the event and its complement make all possible outcomes. See: Event. Probability: Complement. 
The complement of a number is another number in which each digit, when added to the corresponding digit in the original number, will add up to the largest digit of the base in which the number is expressed. That sounds far more complicated than it really is. It's easier to understand by working through it. In other words, each digit, added to it's corresponding digit in the complement, should total 9. So the complement of 1976 would be 8023. Perhaps a better example would be the number 9876543210. It's complement would be 0123456789.
In set theory, a complement of a set A refers to things not in (that is, things outside of) A. The relative complement of A with respect to a set B is the set of elements in B but not in A. When all sets under consideration are considered to be subsets of a given set U, the absolute complement of A is the set of all elements in U but not in A. 
The complement is the amount you must add to something to make it whole. For example, in geometry, two angles are said to be complementary when they add up to 90°. One angle is said to be the complement of the other. In the figure below, angles PQR and RQS are complementary. RQS is the complement of PQR. 
Complement of an Event: All outcomes that are NOT the event. So the Complement of an event is all the other outcomes (not the ones we want). And together the Event and its Complement make all possible outcomes.
When the event is {Hearts} the complement is {Spades, Clubs, Diamonds, Jokers}. So the Complement of an event is all the other outcomes (not the ones we want). And together the Event and its Complement make all possible outcomes.
Hi! The complement of an angle is the number of degrees to get to 90 degrees total. In your case, the complement of 30 degrees is 60 degrees. And likewise the complement of 60 degrees would be 30 degrees. Now what you need is an angle that is 30 degrees less than its complement. Interestingly, the value were given is the answer. The number 30 degrees leaves a complement of 60 degrees. An angle 30 degrees less than 60 degrees is 30 degrees.Basically remember that the total of the two angles is 90. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The complement of an angle is the degree of a angle needed to make a right angle. For example, the complement for a 40 degrees angle would be a 50 degrees angle, since 40+50=90. To solve your problem, let x represent the angle, and let 90-x represent the complement of the angle.
Complement and Relative Complement. The complement of a set is the collection of all elements which are not members of that set. Although this operation appears to be straightforward, the way we define all elements can significantly change the results. Universal set and absolute complement.