It is because of western intensification that the currents on the western boundary of a basin (such as the Gulf Stream, a current on the western side of the Atlantic Ocean) are stronger than those on the eastern boundary (such as the California Current, on the eastern side of the Pacific Ocean). The main ocean currents involved with the North Pacific Gyre. Boundary currents are ocean currents with dynamics determined by the presence of a coastline, and fall into two distinct categories: western boundary currents and eastern boundary currents.
Transport of surface waters toward the western boundary of the ocean basins causes the ocean-surface slope to be steeper on the western side (versus eastern side) of a gyre (in either hemisphere). A steeper ocean-surface slope translates into a faster geostrophic flow on that side of the gyre. Rings. Upwelling and Downwelling. Ocean Conveyer Belt. Surface currents located on the western side of the subtropical gyres, so-called western boundary currents, are faster than their eastern counterparts. In fact, they are among the fastest surface currents in the ocean.
Western boundary currents are also among the fastest non-tidal ocean currents on Earth, reaching speeds of more than five miles per hour (2.5 meters per second) and containing as much as 100 times the combined flow of the world's rivers. The colder eastern boundary currents, which flow from the high latitudes toward the equator, are the slowest and most diffuse currents around the gyre. As they reach the equator, they turn west and pick up speed, driven by the trade winds and heat from the tropical sun.
Warm surface currents invariably flow from the tropics to the higher latitudes, driven mainly by atmospheric winds, as well as the earth's rotation. Western boundary currents are good examples of warm surface currents: they are warm and fast, and they move from tropical to temperate latitudes ยง . Cold surface currents come from polar and temperate latitudes, and they tend to flow towards the equator. The California current is an eastern boundary current. It's broad, slow, cool, and shallow. Eastern boundary currents are often associated with upwelling. The Somali current, off Africa's eastern coast, is unusual because it reverses direction twice a year.
The western boundary currents are among the largest and strongest ocean currents. They occur at the western side of an ocean basin or the eastern side of a continent. They are deep and moving fast and transport water and heat to the poles. An example is the Gulf Stream. The eastern boundary currents transport water from the poles to the equator. They return the water from the western boundary currents, driven by westerly winds. They occur at the eastern side of an ocean basin and are shallower, broader and slower than the western boundary currents.
Wind-driven currents are maintained by momentum transferred by the winds to the ocean surface. Ocean the wind sets the surface waters in motion as a current, the Coriolis force, the density distribution of sea water, and the shape of the ocean basin modify the speed and direction of the current. Western boundary currents such as the Gulf Stream are among the fastest surface currents in the ocean. Western boundary currents flow toward the poles, northward in the Northern Hemisphere and southward in the Southern Hemisphere along the western boundaries of the ocean basins. 
The world's largest ocean gyres. Western boundary currents are warm, deep, narrow, and fast flowing currents that form on the west side of ocean basins due to western intensification. They carry warm water from the tropics poleward. Examples include the Gulf Stream, the Agulhas Current, and the Kuroshio. The main ocean currents involved with the North Pacific Gyre. Boundary currents are ocean currents with dynamics determined by the presence of a coastline, and fall into two distinct categories: western boundary currents and eastern boundary currents.