Gastrointestinal (Enteric) Diseases from Animals. Animals provide many benefits to people. However, some animals can carry diseases that can be shared with people. Zoonotic diseases or zoonoses are diseases caused by germs (pathogens) that can be spread between animals and humans. 
Zoonotic diseases may be spread in different ways. Tapeworms can often spread to humans when people eat the infected meat of cattle, and swine. Other diseases are transferred by insect vectors, often blood-feeding insects that carry the cause of the disease from one animal to another. Causes and symptoms. The following is a partial list of animals and the diseases that they may carry. Not all animal carriers are listed, nor are all the diseases that the various species may carry. 1  Bats are important rabies carriers, and also carry several other viral diseases that can affect humans.
Interactions. Meerkats do pose a slight danger to humans. Meerkats are significant carriers of rabies. But there have only been ten documented cases of rabies-infected meerkats attacking people or domestic animals in the last ten years. They are also carriers of tick-borne diseases. On a more positive note they also help out huma
An infection with a type of fungus, sporotrichosis can be spread to people from the skin of infected animals or by getting dirt into scratches and cuts. The bacteria, called Sporothrix scheneckii, causes open sores in animals that can spread the disease to people. Salmonellosis is a bacterial infection of the intestines caused by a group of bacteria called Salmonella. The bacteria are shed in the stool of infected animals and humans. Infection can happen when a person eats food or drinks water or milk that has been contaminated with Salmonella bacteria.
Zoonoses (/ˌzoʊ.əˈnoʊsɨs/ , plural - /ˈnoʊsiz/ , also spelled zooenoses; zoönoses singular (zoonosis or); zooenosis Zoönosis: from greek ζῷον zoon animal and νόσος) nosos ailment are infectious diseases (of animals), usually vertebrates that can naturally be transmitted. to humans In direct zoonosis the disease is directly transmitted from animals to humans through media such as air (influenza) or through bites and saliva (Rabies). In contrast, transmission can also occur via an intermediate species (referred to as a vector), which carry the disease pathogen without getting infected.
Zoonotic — A disease which can be spread from animals to humans. For other zoonotic diseases, programs are in place to eliminate the host, or the vector that spreads the disease. Plague is prevented by elimination of the rats—a common source of the infection—and of fleas that carry the disease from rats to humans. Causes and symptoms. The following is a partial list of animals and the diseases that they may carry. Not all animal carriers are listed, nor are all the diseases that the various species may carry. 1  Bats are important rabies carriers, and also carry several other viral diseases that can affect humans.
Pets can carry parasites and pass parasites to people. Proper handwashing can greatly reduce risk. A zoonotic disease is a disease that can be passed between animals and humans. Zoonotic diseases can be caused by viruses, bacteria, parasites, and fungi. Some of these diseases are very common. For zoonotic diseases that are caused by parasites, the types of symptoms and signs can be different depending on the parasite and the person. Sometimes people with zoonotic infections can be very sick but some people have no symptoms and do not ever get sick.
Major modern diseases such as Ebola virus disease and influenza are zoonoses. Zoonoses can be caused by a range of disease pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, fungi and parasites; of 1,415 pathogens known to infect humans, 61% were zoonotic. In direct zoonosis the disease is directly transmitted from animals to humans through media such as air (influenza) or through bites and saliva (Rabies). In contrast, transmission can also occur via an intermediate species (referred to as a vector), which carry the disease pathogen without getting infected.
Zoonotic diseases (also called zoonoses) are infectious diseases that can be spread from animals to humans. These diseases may or may not produce clinical illness in the animal. Zoonotic diseases include: 