The Indiglo® night-light uniformly lights the surface of the watch dial using patented blue electroluminescent lighting technology. It uses less battery power than most other watch illumination systems, enabling your watch battery to last longer. Buckle clasp closure. INDIGLO night-light for easy viewing in dark conditions. Water-resistant to 30m. Measurements: ; Case Height: 35 mm; Case Width: 35 mm; Case Depth: 9 mm; Band Width: 5 8 in; Band Circumference/Length: 8 1 4 in; Weight: 1.3 oz; This product may have a manufacturer's warranty.
Activate INDIGLO night-light with a press of any button using NIGHT-MODER feature. Dimensions: Face Width - 44mm Face Depth - 14mm Face Height - 44mm Band Width - 24mm Band Circumference - 9.5; This product may have a manufacturer's warranty. Buckle clasp closure. INDIGLO night-light for easy viewing in dark conditions. Water-resistant to 30m. Measurements: ; Case Height: 35 mm; Case Width: 35 mm; Case Depth: 9 mm; Band Width: 5 8 in; Band Circumference/Length: 8 1 4 in; Weight: 1.3 oz
A: Cameron -. Here's what the Smithsonian Institute has to say about Timex Indiglo Watches : Timex received the patent for the Indiglo nightlight in 1988. The nightlight's bluish green light illuminates the entire dial of the watch evenly at the push of a button. The dial is coated with a compound of zinc sulfide mixed with copper, a substance which becomes luminescent when an electrical charge is applied. A: John, Indiglo watches take energy from the watch battery and give it to the atoms in the zinc sulfide-copper compound. This energy is then given off as light. After the atoms give off this light they can be exactly the same as they were before they got the energy from the battery.
Indiglo system in a Timex quartz watch. Indiglo is a product feature on watches marketed by Timex, incorporating an electroluminescent display for even illumination of the watch dial. Indiglo devices typically emit a distinct blue or white color, though some may emit different colors. Certain Indiglo models, e.g., Timex Datalink USB, employ a form of the technology that only lights the watch dial's numbers, rather than the entire dial.
The brand is owned by Indiglo Corporation, which is in turn solely owned by Timex, and the name derives from the word indigo, as the original watches featuring the technology emitted a green-blue light. Indiglo devices typically emit a distinct blue or white color, though some may emit different colors. Certain Indiglo models, e.g., Timex Datalink USB, employ a form of the technology that only lights the watch dial's numbers, rather than the entire dial.
The basic technology behind the Indiglo watch is called electroluminescence. Electroluminescence is the conversion of electricity directly into light. This is not how an incandescent bulb works. In an incandescent bulb, the electricity produces heat, and the heat produces light. Electroluminescence is much more efficient because it converts the electricity directly to light. The most common example of electroluminescence that we see on a regular basis is a neon light. In a neon light, high voltage energizes the electrons in neon atoms, and when the electrons de-energize themselves, they emit photons. In an Indiglo watch, a very thin panel uses high voltage to energize phosphor atoms that produce light.
Follow indiglo night light to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow indiglo night light to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following indiglo night light in your eBay Feed. 
Indiglo has been used for other devices such as clock radios, electronic personal organizers, and nightlights as well as for the luminescent paint on the hands of their analog watches — while making no distinction between this product and the electroluminescent watch feature. Indiglo devices typically emit a distinct blue or white color, though some may emit different colors. Certain Indiglo models, e.g., Timex Datalink USB, employ a form of the technology that only lights the watch dial's numbers, rather than the entire dial.