frenoplasty. the correction of an abnormally attached frenum or frenulum, by surgically repositioning it. A cosmetic procedure in which a frenulum is surgically altered, either of the tongue (which may performed in children for ankyloglossia, or “tongue-tie”) or of the penis (due to a tightly adherent foreskin). 
A frenuloplasty is the surgical procedure used to correct ankyloglossia commonly known as tongue-tie. When is a frenuloplasty a consideration? If you raise your tongue to the roof of your mouth you will see a band of tissue underneath your tongue called the frenulum. 
A frenuloplasty is a surgical procedure that will adjust the frenulum in different areas of the body. Newborns born with ankyloglossia usually undergo a frenuloplasty within the first few days of life. The incision site during a frenuloplasty should be kept clean in order to avoid infection. Frenulum tissue is designed to secure the mobility of the organ or muscle involved. When the frenulum is too small, it causes the movement to be restricted. Frenuloplasty can help clear up childhood speech problems, infant feeding difficulties, and relieve the pain of intercourse that some men experience.
Many men undergo a frenuloplasty when intercourse becomes painful due to the restricted movement of the foreskin. The frenulum tissue connects the foreskin to the vernal mucosa and aids in the retraction of the foreskin when the penis is erect. A frenuloplasty can correct this abnormal restriction of the foreskin while preventing the need for a circumcision. The penile frenuloplasty is performed on an outpatient basis. Frenulum tissue is designed to secure the mobility of the organ or muscle involved. When the frenulum is too small, it causes the movement to be restricted. Frenuloplasty can help clear up childhood speech problems, infant feeding difficulties, and relieve the pain of intercourse that some men experience.
Frenuloplasty is the surgical alteration of a frenulum when its presence restricts range of motion between interconnected tissues. Two of the common sites for a frenuloplasty are: 
Frenuloplasty for Tongue-Tie. Frenuloplasty is a procedure in which a doctor clips the tissue (lingual frenulum) that attaches the tongue to the floor of the mouth. Stitches are used to close the triangular-shaped wound. And pressure may be applied to stop any bleeding
A frenuloplasty is a surgical procedure that adjusts the frenulum to allow for unrestricted movement of the organ or muscle affected. Frenulum tissue is designed to secure the mobility of the organ or muscle involved. When the frenulum is too small, it causes the movement to be restricted. Frenuloplasty can help clear up childhood speech problems, infant feeding difficulties, and relieve the pain of intercourse that some men experience.
Lingual Frenectomy versus Lingual Frenuloplasty. Lingual frenectomy and lingual frenuloplasty are both dental procedures used to correct a condition called ankyloglossia. Ankylogloassia, more commonly known as ‘tied tongue’, is an abnormality of the lingual frenulum…. Lingual frenuloplasty differs from lingual frenectomy in that the frenulum is not completely removed, but only altered. The goal of lingual frenuloplasty is to snip the lingual frenulum just enough to loosen it and increase the mobility of the tongue.
View Photos of Frenuloplasty. If an uncircumcised man has a problem with his foreskin (the loose skin that covers the end of the penis) such that it is very tightly attached to the undersurface of the glans of the penis, it can cause difficulty in movement of the skin as well as pain during erections. 
By Adam Sinicki | Mens Health | Unrated. A frenuloplasty is a surgical procedure that involves a slight modification usually to the foreskin, lips or tongue. Frenuloplasty of the penis the most common form is similar to a circumcision but is less invasive and has a different aim and purposes. Here we will look at what a frenuloplasty is, when it's used and what you should expect if you are getting the procedure.