Azerbaijan, like all of Syria’s regional neighbors, is affected by the ongoing civil war there. Until now, the Syrian crisis has had, overall, a limited impact on the largely secular Azerbaijan, which is geographically separated from the war-torn country by Iran and Turkey. Although the Alawites of Syria and the Shia of Azerbaijan are actually quite different strands of the sect, there is still some affinity. Both groups share a core belief that the 7th century Caliph Ali was the true successor to Muhammad — a belief not shared by Sunnis.
In the nineteenth century, Iran, the Ottoman Empire, and Russia took an interest in Azerbaijan. Russia invaded Azerbaijan, and with the 1828 treaty borders (almost identical to the current borders), the country was divided between Iran and Russia. Azerbaijan is on the western shore of the Caspian Sea. To the north it borders the Russian Federation, in the northwest Georgia, in the west Armenia, and in the south Iran.
The Muslim population is approximately 85% Shi'a and 15% Sunni; differences traditionally have not been defined sharply. The Republic of Azerbaijan has the second highest Shia population percentage in the world after Iran. Most Shias are adherents of orthodox Ithna Ashari school of Shi'a Islam. (Estimates include 91.6% Muslim (CIA), 93.4% (Berkley Center, 2012), 99.2% (Pew Research Center, 2009). ) The rest of the population adheres to other faiths or are non-religious, although they are not officially represented.
Azerbaijan is a former Soviet republic in the Caucasus and variously considered part of Europe or Asia. The country lies on the Caspian Sea between Russia and Iran and is bordered to the west by Georgia and Armenia. The autonomous exclave of Nakhchivan lies between Armenia and Iran with a short border with Turkey. 
The Bibi-Heybat Mosque in Baku, Azerbaijan. Over 90% of the population of Azerbaijan is Muslim. (Estimates include 91.6% Muslim (CIA), 93.4% (Berkley Center, 2012), 99.2% (Pew Research Center, 2009). ) The rest of the population adheres to other faiths or are non-religious, although they are not officially represented.
At present, about three-quarters of Azeri Muslims are, at least nominally, Shia of the Jafarite rite (the main Shia branch). In the 1989 census 87 percent of the population declared to be Muslim-with the exit of many Russians and all Armenians this percentage is now above 90%. 
As a direct result of Qajar Iran's forced ceding to Russia, the Azerbaijanis are nowadays parted between two nations: Iran and Azerbaijan. Despite living on two sides of an international border, the Azeris form a single ethnic group. They comprise the largest ethnic group in Azerbaijan and by far the second-largest ethnic group in neighbouring Iran. The world's largest number of ethnic Azerbaijanis furthermore live in Iran followed by the Azerbaijan Republic. They are also referred to as Azerbaijani Turks (Azərbaycan Tuerkləri). türkləri
Azerbaijanis (/ˌaezərbaɪˈdʒɑːni/ ; ˌæzərbaɪˈdʒɑːni: Azerbaijani, آذربایجانلیلار) or Azeris are a Turkic-speaking ethnic group living mainly in the country of Azerbaijan and the Iranian region of Azerbaijan in the Caucas caucasus They comprise the largest ethnic group in Azerbaijan and by far the second-largest ethnic group in neighbouring Iran. The world's largest number of ethnic Azerbaijanis furthermore live in Iran followed by the Azerbaijan Republic. They are also referred to as Azerbaijani Turks (Azərbaycan Tuerkləri). türkləri
Religion also plays a key factor in uniting ethnic Azeris with other Iranians. Sharing the Shi'ite confession of Islam with their Persian compatriots means that Iranian Azeris have felt closer to them than to Sunni Turks or other peoples beyond Iran's borders. In the 16th century, the ethnic-Azeri Safavid dynasty restored Iran's unity after the destruction and chaos of the Mongol invasion. They introduced Shi'ite Islam as the country's state religion, a key part of the country's emerging national identity.