Upper Body Circulation. In the lungs, the pulmonary arteries (in blue) carry unoxygenated blood from the heart into the lungs. Throughout the body, the arteries (in red) deliver oxygenated blood and nutrients to all of the body’s tissues, and the veins (in blue) return oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. The aorta is the large artery leaving the heart.
The circulatory system includes the heart, blood vessels and blood, and is vital for fighting diseases and maintaining homeostasis (proper temperature and pH balance). The system's main function is to transport blood, nutrients, gases and hormones to and from the cells throughout the body. 
1 Your system of blood vessels -- arteries, veins and capillaries -- is over 60,000 miles long. 2  That's long enough to go around the world more than twice! 3  The adult heart pumps about 5 quarts of blood each minute-approximately 2,000 gallons of blood each day-throughout the body. Heart Facts. 1  Your system of blood vessels -- arteries, veins and capillaries -- is over 60,000 miles long. 2  The adult heart pumps about 5 quarts of blood each minute-approximately 2,000 gallons of blood each day-throughout the body. 3  When attempting to locate their heart, most people place their hand on their left chest. 4  The heart beats about 100 ...
Arteries (in red) are the blood vessels that deliver blood to the body. Veins (in blue) are the blood vessels that return blood to the heart. Deep veins, located in the center of the leg near the leg bones, are enclosed by muscle. Throughout the body, the arteries (in red) deliver oxygenated blood and nutrients to all of the body’s tissues, and the veins (in blue) return oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. The aorta is the large artery leaving
Enjoy these blood facts while learning some interesting facts and information about blood type, cells, pressure, plasma, donation and more. Found in humans and most animals, blood is an incredibly important bodily fluid that transports oxygen and various nutrients to our body’s cells. 
It’s a big name for one of the most important systems in the body. Made up of the heart, blood and blood vessels, the circulatory system is your body’s delivery system. Blood moving from the heart, delivers oxygen and nutrients to every part of the body. On the return trip, the blood picks up waste products so that your body can get rid of them. Your Heart.
A network of arteries and veins also carry blood throughout the body: Arteries transport blood from the heart to the body tissues. Veins carry blood back to the heart. How the heart works. The heart is a large, muscular organ that pumps blood filled with oxygen and nutrients through the blood vessels to the body tissues. It's made up of: Four chambers. The two upper chambers, the atria, receive and collect blood.
Heart Facts. 1  Your system of blood vessels -- arteries, veins and capillaries -- is over 60,000 miles long. 2  That's long enough to go around the world more than twice! 3  The adult heart pumps about 5 quarts of blood each minute-approximately 2,000 gallons of blood each day-throughout the body. Heart Facts. 1  Your system of blood vessels -- arteries, veins and capillaries -- is over 60,000 miles long. 2  The adult heart pumps about 5 quarts of blood each minute-approximately 2,000 gallons of blood each day-throughout the body. 3  When attempting to locate their heart, most people place their hand on their left chest. 4  The heart beats about 100 ...
The circulatory system consists of three independent systems that work together: the heart (cardiovascular), lungs (pulmonary), and arteries, veins, coronary and portal vessels (systemic). The system is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, oxygen and other gases, and as well as hormones to and from cells. The system of blood vessels in the human body measure about 60,000 miles (96,560 kilometers). Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart through the body. Veins carry oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. The superior vena cava carries oxygen-poor blood in
The network of veins, arteries and blood vessels transports oxygenated blood from the heart, delivers oxygen and nutrients to the body's cells and then returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart. The system of blood vessels in the human body measure about 60,000 miles (96,560 kilometers). Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart through the body. Veins carry oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. The superior vena cava carries oxygen-poor blood into the heart.