English mustard is an extremely hot powdered mustard containing ground mustards seeds, flour and tumeric. The most well-known brand is Colman's. Season: available year-round. 
The whole, ground, cracked, or bruised mustard seeds are mixed with water, salt, lemon juice, or other liquids, and sometimes other flavorings and spices, to create a paste or sauce ranging in color from bright yellow to dark brown. The tastes range from sweet to spicy. Honey mustard is a blend of mustard and honey, typically 1:1. It is commonly used both on sandwiches, and as a dip for finger foods such as chicken strips. It can also be combined with vinegar or olive oil to make a salad dressing.
Mustard is a condiment made from the seeds of a mustard plant (white or yellow mustard, Sinapis alba; brown or Indian mustard, Brassica juncea; or black mustard, B. nigra). Honey mustard is a blend of mustard and honey, typically 1:1. It is commonly used both on sandwiches, and as a dip for finger foods such as chicken strips. It can also be combined with vinegar or olive oil to make a salad dressing.
Powdered mustard is simply finely ground mustard seed. Originally mustard was called Sinapis. Some claim that during Roman times the word Sinapis started to be replaced by words such as Mustum, Mustarum, and Mustardum as new wine, or Must was mixed with mustard seeds to make a paste. White and brown seeds are blended to make English mustard. Brown mustard seeds are similar in size to the black variety and vary in color from light to dark brown and are more pungent than the white, less than the black.
There may be. The mustard processors of the world have not yet settled on a definitive naming scheme for their products. Theoretically dry mustard and powdered mustard and ground mustard are the same thing. You might find some variation in the fineness or coarseness of the grind. 
Dry mustard is used in food preparation, and can be mixed with water to use as a condiment. In its dry form, powdered mustard lacks potency; the addition of water releases the pungent compounds. Honey mustard is a blend of mustard and honey, typically 1:1. It is commonly used both on sandwiches, and as a dip for finger foods such as chicken strips. It can also be combined with vinegar or olive oil to make a salad dressing.
There are two major types of mustard seed: white (or yellow) and brown (Asian), A third species, the black mustard seed, has been replaced for most purposes by the brown species because the latter can be grown and harvested more economically. White and brown seeds are blended to make English mustard. Brown mustard seeds are similar in size to the black variety and vary in color from light to dark brown and are more pungent than the white, less than the black.
More on Dry Mustard. Dry mustard is found in the spice isle of your grocery store where you are generally given three choices: black, brown (dark yellow color, used to make Dijon mustard) or white (light yellow color, used to make American mustard) with taste intensity decreasing along with the drop in color intensity. Dry mustard is most often used in adding mustard flavor to vegetables and meats. Dry mustard is also used in pickling where it is prepared by adding vinegar and water.
A nswer : Dry mustard is simply ground mustard seeds which are derived from the mustard plant, a vegetable plant related to the brussels sprout and broccoli plants. Dry mustard is most often used in adding mustard flavor to vegetables and meats. Dry mustard is also used in pickling where it is prepared by adding vinegar and water.
However, if the amount of prepared mustard called for in the recipe is 1/4 cup or more, it's contributing to the volume, so you may need to increase one of the other ingredients of a similar consistency to make up the difference. For more ingredient substitutions, see our alphabetized Ingredient Substitutions chart. In most cases you can use 1 tablespoon of prepared mustard in place of 1 teaspoon dried mustard.