Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Ailbhe. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Ailbhe, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you consider naming your baby Ailbhe we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Ailbhe /ailb-he/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced al-by, al-vy. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Ailbhe is white. Adoption of these girl names reached its highest during the years 1890-1899 (usage of 0.4687%) and is now much lower, with the versions Alva and Elva becoming less trendy. Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Ailbhe and corresponding names.
Ailbe. Meaning of the Irish name Ailbe. Listen and learn how to pronounce Ailbe so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: From an old Irish word meaning “”white,”” the 6th century St. Ailbe was associated with the monastery at Emly in County Tipperary. The local people requested that he bless a river that had no fish.
Name Ailbhe Categories. The name Ailbhe is in the following categories: Gaelic Names, Irish Names, Saints Names, Unisex Names. (If you would like to suggest one or more categories for the name, click here). If you consider naming your baby Ailbhe we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Ailbhe is a rare given name for women. Ailbhe is also a unique surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Ailbhe for girls. Adoption of these girl names reached its highest during the years 1890-1899 (usage of 0.4687%) and is now much lower, with the versions Alva and Elva becoming less trendy. Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Ailbhe and corresponding names.
show more Ciara Eimear Aoibhinn Beibhinn Béibhinn Eibhlin Eibhlín Ailbhe Siobhan Siobhán Mairead Mairéad Doireann Úna Aoife Éabha Orfhlaith'una úna Aisling eabha éabha they re All. Irish and common here in ireland i just Want to know how. People outside'ireland Would pronounce them please don't google them if you don! t know how to say them 
The meaning of Ailbhe is “White”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Ailbhe we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
[ 2 syll. ai -(l)(b) he, ail-bhe ] The baby girl name Ailbhe is also used as a boy name, with the latter form being far more popular. It is pronounced AE LVah- †. Ailbhe is of Celtic origin. It is used mainly in Gaelic and Irish. The Celtic albho is a cognate of the Latin 'albus'. In Irish mythology, Ailbhe was a female warrior of the Fianna. The name can be Anglicized as Alby or Elva. See Ailbhe for more information. Forms of the name include the Gaelic Ailbe, the Irish Alby, and the Irish Elva. Ailbhe is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ailbhe and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Ailbhe and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Ailbhe we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Ailbhe-Meaning of Ailbhe. Tweet. See also the related form, Elvis (English). [ 2 syll. ai -(l)(b) he, ail-bhe ] The baby boy name Ailbhe is also used as a girl name, but it is much more common for boys. Its pronunciation is AE LVah- †. Ailbhe is used predominantly in the Gaelic and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic. It is derived from the element 'albho' meaning white. The name can be Anglicized as Alby or Albert