Childhood. Leonard Albert Kravitz, known to most as Lenny Kravitz, was born on May 26, 1964 in Brooklyn, New York. An only child, Kravitz is the product of an interracial marriage. His father, Sy Kravitz, is Jewish; his mother, Roxie Roker, who died of cancer in 1995, was an African American. As a bi-racial child in the 1960s, endured an onslaught of prejudicial remarks. Kravitz was raised in a wealthy home environment. Lenny Kravitz was born on May 26, 1964 in Brooklyn, New York. His first album, Let Love Rule, was released in 1989. In 1998, his album Five won him his first Grammy Award. In 2004, his album Baptism expressed his renewed enthusiasm for making music.
Filed by Lisa Capretto. Lenny Kravitz married The Cosby Show actress Lisa Bonet when the two eloped in Las Vegas in 1987, on Lisa's 20th birthday. In 1988, the young couple had a daughter named Zoe zoë and stayed married for several years before divorcing in. 1993 In this clip from Oprah's Master Class, Lenny reflects on his marriage to Lisa and reveals what their relationship is like now, post-divorce. We were very young, Lenny says about their near-six-year marriage.
1. Lenny Kravitz was engaged to Adriana Lima. 2001 - 2003. These two were engaged in the spring of 2002, arguably the height of their 3-year relationship. Adriana also starred in the video to Lenny's ironically titled song, Yesterday is Gone. 
4. Lenny Kravitz was married to Lisa Bonet. November 1987 - 1993. Lenny Kravitz eloped with actress Lisa Bonet in 1987, and she gave birth to a daughter, Zoe Isabella, a year later. They divorced in 1993
In 1987, Lenny Kravitz, then 23 years old, eloped with his girlfriend, actress Lisa Bonet. Lenny met the young star of The Cosby Show backstage at one of his concerts. While the marriage didn't work out, Lenny says, his romance with Lisa was a wonderful experience, one that led to the birth of their daughter, Zoe. zoë 
Now, Lenny is opening up about his relationship with Lisa both during and after their marriage. In this clip from Oprah's Master Class, Lenny reflects on his marriage to Lisa and reveals what their relationship is like now, post-divorce. We were very young, Lenny says about their near-six-year marriage.
Twenty years after Lenny Kravitz and Lisa Bonet ended their six-year marriage, the rocker says their bond is stronger than ever. During the June 2 episode of Oprah's Master Class, the Are You Gonna Go My Way rocker opens up about how far they've come since calling it quits in 1993. Kravitz was briefly engaged to Victoria's Secret Angel Adriana Lima, but they broke things off in 2002. Bonet, meanwhile, began dating actor Jason Momoa in 2005.
Kravitz and Bonet divorced in 1993. In 1991, Kravitz produced the self-titled album Vanessa Paradis for French singer and actress Vanessa Paradis. He played most of the instruments and co-wrote most of the songs on the album. He also released his second album, Mama Said, which was his first album to reach the Top 40. I was attracted to the cool style, the girls, the rock 'n' roll lifestyle, Kravitz said. Kravitz's other musical influences at the time included Fela Kuti, Bill Withers, Marvin Gaye, Pharoah Sanders and Miles Davis; John Lennon and Bob Marley proved later to be influential as well.
In 1974, the Kravitz family relocated to Los Angeles when Kravitz's mother landed her role on The Jeffersons. At his mother's urging, Kravitz joined the California Boys Choir for three years, where he performed a classical repertoire, and sang with the Metropolitan Opera. I was attracted to the cool style, the girls, the rock 'n' roll lifestyle, Kravitz said. Kravitz's other musical influences at the time included Fela Kuti, Bill Withers, Marvin Gaye, Pharoah Sanders and Miles Davis; John Lennon and Bob Marley proved later to be influential as well.