1960! That's when all Canadian women were allowed to vote! Women won the vote in small and incremental steps, with our western provinces leading the way. The first federal election in Canada was held in August, 1867. Women didn't have the right to vote in it. 
Women's suffrage (also known as woman suffrage or woman's right to vote) is the right of women to vote and to stand for electoral office. Limited voting rights were gained by women in Finland, Iceland, Sweden and some western U.S. states in the late 19th century. Unrestricted women's suffrage in terms of voting rights (women were not initially permitted to stand for election) was adopted in New Zealand in 1893. Following a successful movement led by Kate Sheppard, the women's suffrage bill was adopted weeks before the general election of that year.
Women were denied the right to vote or to stand for the local election in 2005, although suffrage was slated to possibly be granted by 2009, then set for later in 2011, but suffrage was not granted either of those times. Unrestricted women's suffrage in terms of voting rights (women were not initially permitted to stand for election) was adopted in New Zealand in 1893. Following a successful movement led by Kate Sheppard, the women's suffrage bill was adopted weeks before the general election of that year.
Introduction. Ratified on August 18, 1920, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution granted American women the right to vote—a right known as woman suffrage. At the time the U.S. was founded, its female citizens did not share all of the same rights as men, including the right to vote. Wyoming, the first state to grant voting rights to women, was also the first state to elect a female governor. Nellie Tayloe Ross (1876-1977) was elected governor of the Equality State (Wyoming's official nickname) in 1924. From 1933 to 1953, she served as the first female director of the U.S. Mint.
Of currently existing independent countries, New Zealand was the first to acknowledge women's right to vote in 1893 when it was a self-governing British colony. Unrestricted women's suffrage in terms of voting rights (women were not initially permitted to stand for election) was adopted in New Zealand in 1893. Following a successful movement led by Kate Sheppard, the women's suffrage bill was adopted weeks before the general election of that year.
Women and the vote. Before 1918 no women were allowed to vote in parliamentary elections. In the early 20th century there were two main groups active in the campaign for women's suffrage, a term used to describe the right to vote.
In the US, women received the right to vote with the passing of the 19th amendment on August 18, 1920. They first voted in National Elections in 1923. Women had earlier been allowed to vote in some of the other states. The first instance of a woman voting in America was Lydia Chapin Taft in 1756 who voted in New England town meetings. 
In 1916, women had earned the vote in Manitoba. Eventually, other provinces extended the vote to women as well. But federal elections were another story. In 1917, Canada's federal electoral law stipulated that idiots, madmen, criminals and judges were not allowed to vote. It didn't mention women, but they were still not allowed to vote in national elections.
On Election Day in 1920, millions of American women exercised their right to vote for the first time. It took activists and reformers nearly 100 years to win that right, and the campaign was not easy: Disagreements over strategy threatened to cripple the movement more than once. Suffrage leader Lucy Burns (1879-1966) was imprisoned at the Occoquan Workhouse in Virginia, probably in November 1917, after she and others were arrested for picketing the White House in support of a federal amendment granting women the right to vote. 1  Contents.