Simran (Punjabi: ਸਿਮਰਨ, Hindi: सिमरन) is a Punjabi word derived from the Sanskrit word स्मरण (smaraṇa, the act of remembrance, remembrance, reminiscence, recollection) which leads to the realization of that which is of the highest aspect and purpose in one's life. Simran is a commonly used term as a verb in Gurmukhi, which refers to 'meditating' of the Nām, the ultimate feeling of Ultimate.
Simran is a Punjabi word derived from the Sanskrit word स्मरण (smaraṇa, the act of remembering or calling to mind, remembrance, reminiscence, recollection of), thus 'realization of that which is of the highest aspect and purpose in one's life', thus introducing spirituality. Share to: 'Simran' is a Sanskrit word derived from 'smaran', which means: realization of that which is of the highest aspect and purpose in one's life-
[ 2 syll. si-mran, sim-r- an ] The baby girl name Simran is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced S IH MRaa-N †. Simran is of Punjabi origin. It is used mainly in English and Indian. The meaning of Simran is 'meditative in god'. Forms of Simran include the name Simrana, the name Simrane, the name Simrania, the English and Indian Simranjit, the name Simrann, the name Simranna, the name Simranne, the name Simren, and the English and Indian Simrin. Simran is uncommon as a baby girl name
The meaning of Simran is  Remembrance . Its origin is  Punjabi . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 2,362nd in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Simran is a Punjabi name meaning remembrance..
Name Simran generally means Meditation, is of Indian origin, Name Simran is a Unisex name, which means both Boy and Girl can have this name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Muslim or Sikh or Hindu by religion. 
Meaning of Simran. Indian name. In Indian, the name Simran means-gods giftor love ful remembrance of god.The name Simran originated as an Indian name. The name Simran is most often used as a girl name or female name. Indian Name Meaning-gods giftor love ful remembrance of god. Origin-India. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Meaning of the name Simran, analysis of the name Simran and so much more… What does Simran mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. 
Meaning of Indian name: Simran. Meaning of the name Simran is 'Meditation'. Simran is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Simran is '2'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Simran'