The unicorn has the powers to heal with its horn and when it touches water it purifies it. They also have he gift of prophecy. They are the purest of all creatures and can only be brought out into the open by a PURE virgin. Numbers 23:22 God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn. Deuteronomy 39:10 Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will he harrow the valleys after thee? Psalm 92:10 But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Unicorn Powers It was traditionally believed that a virgin who was naked sitting beneath a tree could only catch the delicate unicorn. The unicorn, who craves purity, would be irresistably drawn to the girl and lie down with his head in her lap. While it slept, the hunter could capture i
A unicorn is a animal of legends and folklore. It is said to have  the body of a horse, tail of a lion and a single spiraled horn.  Some legends say it will run from everyon … e but a young maiden. Then  it will lay its head in her lap and fall asleep. Some say that the  unicorn is the symbol of the Virgin Mary. I'll add more when i find out. unicorns have healing powers just the touch of their horn can heal a wound but it takes a lot of energy out of them they also can speak mind to mind with any creature even human if the creature is touching them. The horn of the unicorn can cure all poisons
The Unicorn is a mythical horse-like beast, with a horn attached on its forehead. Unicorns can live to be hundreds, perhaps even thousands of years old if left untouched by evil hands. 
The Bible also describes an animal, the re'em, which some translations have erroneously rendered with the word unicorn. In European folklore, the unicorn is often depicted as a white horse-like or goat-like animal with a long horn and cloven hooves (sometimes a goat's beard). In heraldry, a unicorn is often depicted as a horse with a goat's cloven hooves and beard, a lion's tail, and a slender, spiral horn on its forehead (non-equine attributes may be replaced with equine ones, as can be seen from the following gallery).
A unicorn is a animal of legends and folklore. It is said to have  the body of a horse, tail of a lion and a single spiraled horn.  Some legends say it will run from everyon … e but a young maiden. Then  it will lay its head in her lap and fall asleep. Some say that the  unicorn is the symbol of the Virgin Mary. The Chinese have their  own version of the story.
A unicorn horn, also known as an alicorn, is a legendary object whose reality may have been accepted in Western Europe throughout the Middle Ages. Many healing powers and antidote 's virtues were attributed to the horn of the unicorn. Belief in the power of the unicorn's horn and its origins persisted from the Middle Ages to the 18th century, when the true source, the narwhal, was discovered.
Report Abuse. The unicorn has the powers to heal with its horn and when it touches water it purifies it. They also have he gift of prophecy. They are the purest of all creatures and can only be brought out into the open by a PURE virgin. A woman that has never touched or been touched by a man, nor has a corrupt thought. Numbers 23:22 God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn. Deuteronomy 39:10 Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will he harrow the valleys after thee? Psalm 92:10 But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.