Finally, air pollution can take the form of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide or sulfur dioxide, which are warming the planet through the greenhouse effect. According to the EPA, the greenhouse effect is when gases absorb the infrared radiation that is released from the Earth, preventing the heat from escaping. Nutrient pollution, also called eutrophication, is another type of water pollution. It is when nutrients, such as nitrogen, are added into bodies of water. The nutrient works like fertilizer and makes algae grow at excessive rates, according to NOAA. The algae blocks light from other plants.
Types of water pollution. There are many types of water pollution because water comes from many sources. Here are a few types of water pollution: 1. Nutrients Pollution. Some wastewater, fertilizers and sewage contain high levels of nutrients. If they end up in water bodies, they encourage algae and weed growth in the water
Main types of pollution 2: Water Pollution. Water pollution is another one of the main types of pollution of the environment. Water pollution could be in the form of any change in the physical, chemical and biological properties of water which has a harmful effect on living things. The main types of pollution gases in the air are carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, methane, sulfur dioxide, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and nitrogen oxides. Read related articles on air pollution facts: 1  air pollution statistics. 2  car pollution facts.
Air pollution could be in the form of the emission of harmful chemical gases (e.g. carbon monoxide) or particulates (e.g. soot) in to the air. Air pollution could also be in the form of disturbances to the normal composition of the air such that there is an undesired effect on the environment or living things. The main types of pollution gases in the air are carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, methane, sulfur dioxide, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and nitrogen oxides. Read related articles on air pollution facts: 1  air pollution statistics. 2  car pollution facts.
Types of water pollution. Water pollution can come from a number of different sources. If the pollution comes from a single source, such as an oil spill, it is called point-source pollution. If the pollution comes from many sources, it is called nonpoint-source pollution. Most types of pollution affect the immediate area surrounding the source. Sometimes the pollution may affect the environment hundreds of miles away from the source, such as nuclear waste, this is called transboundary
Pollution is the introduction of contaminants into the natural environment that cause adverse change. Pollution can take the form of chemical substances or energy, such as noise, heat or light. Pollutants, the components of pollution, can be either foreign substances/energies or naturally occurring contaminants. Pollution is often classed as point source or nonpoint source pollution. 
Read more about the types of environmental pollution in the air. The most common sources of air pollution include the burning of fossil fuels and other materials in oil refineries, power plants, factories, automobiles and other forms of transportation, as well as the incinerators. The main types of pollution gases in the air are carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, methane, sulfur dioxide, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and nitrogen oxides. Read related articles on air pollution facts: 1  air pollution statistics. 2  car pollution facts.
Air Pollution: which is generally in the form of a gas emitted by factories, power plants, automobiles, etc. such as the familiar greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide and methane but can also include particulate matter such as is the case with asbestos or biological matter that could be released into the air. 