For example: Some people with an employee will charge for a job based on how long it will take one person to do the job. If you charge $50.00 an hour and you bid two hours for a large job (Price based on how long it takes for you to mow it by yourself), you will get paid $100 whether it takes you one hour or two. If there is a lot of fence or trees to trim around, that requires a lot of time. 
1 Per-service: I called a few lawn services in my area, and the most common quote I received was around $60 per service. 2  I had no idea it would cost so much to have someone else take care of my lawn! 3  I’m certainly not paying my son that much, but I’d be willing to pay him $25 per service. 1 I had no idea it would cost so much to have someone else take care of my lawn! 2  I’m certainly not paying my son that much, but I’d be willing to pay him $25 per service. 3  Per-week: Finally, I could pay him a flat rate of $30 per week to take care of the lawn (regardless of how many times he’d have to mow).
Offer a discount for multiple lawn cuttings. To encourage repeat business, give previous customers a discount for every second or third cutting. For example, customers pay the regular price for two lawn cuttings, and you agree to reduce every third lawn service by $5 or $10.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yard maintenance, including lawn mowing is usually charged out on a per hour basis regardless of the number of people doing the job. The rates where I live range from $30.00 per hr to $50.00 per hr. I would emphasise that the higher rates are charged by contractors on ride-on mowers doing large flat areas. 
Do-It-Yourself. If you are willing to cut the grass yourself, the cost is nothing. If you don't already own a lawn mower, you will have to invest in one but the cost of the mower will quickly pay for itself if you compare the cost of hiring a professional landscaper for the job. A small front and back yard may be as little as $20 to $25 per week or cut, but the average lawn will likely be anywhere from $30 to $50 per week or cut and a large lawn on a quarter of an acre or more may cost closer to $60 or $70 per week or cut, as of 2011.
I was wondering if anyone could help a beginner. SOme questions i have are how much do i charge per lawn, what type of people would usually appreciate getting their lawn cut, and what tools do i need to do a proper job. 
This will help you ascertain how much to charge an individual when you contact him for the estimate, because you already know how long it will take you to cut the grass. Visit the property in order to give the customer an estimate. You can either charge by the hour or square footage of the lawn. This will ensure that those who have larger lawns will pay more for the service. Don't take a homeowner's word for it over the phone, as your idea of a large lawn and hers may differ, especially if she doesn't know the square footage. 
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Small Lawn Mowing project. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Mow a Lawn ranges between $0.03 - $0.14 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
Lawn Care Prices. 1  A reasonable price for lawn care is $25-$35 per week, or $100-$140 per month. 2  By the hour, this works out to $20-$25 per hour, or $40-$50 for half acre lawns. 3  Most landscapers will include basic lawn maintenance such as lawn mowing and edging. 4  Larger lawns cost more. 
Step 1. Establish a base price. The average cost to cut a lawn is between $20 and $40. Determine a base price for small, medium and large-sized properties. For example, you may only charge $20 to cut the front and back of a small property that only takes 30 to 60 minutes, but charge $40 for a property that takes twice as long to complete. Step 2. To encourage repeat business, give previous customers a discount for every second or third cutting. For example, customers pay the regular price for two lawn cuttings, and you agree to reduce every third lawn service by $5 or $10.