1 Cover the beans with water and boil for 2-3 minutes (no soaking). 2  Discard water, rinse beans and cook in fresh water, beef, chicken or vegetable broth until tender. 3  If recipes call for other ingredients, add them to the broth and beans mixture as if cooking with plain water. 1 Place beans in a pot and add 10 cups of water for every 2 cups of beans. 2  Heat to boiling and boil for an additional 2 to 3 minutes. 3  Remove beans from heat, cover and let stand for 4 to 24 hours. 4  Drain beans, discard soak water and rinse with fresh, cool
However, I use the quick soak my mom taught me. Rinse the beans, put the beans in a pot and cover with water, boil for 10 minutes, turn off the heat and let the beans soak for 1 hour. Rinse again and put them in the crock pot on low for 6-8 hours or high for 3-4hours. I’ll have to try the saltwater. 
After soaking, drain the beans and add fresh water to the cooking pot. Bring the beans to a boil, and then lower the heat and simmer for 60 to 90 minutes, or until the beans are tender. (Check your package of beans, as cooking times vary for different varieties. Soak most beans in three times their volume of cold water for six hours before cooking. Dried beans are often soaked too long. Most recipes say overnight. The best way is to put them in cold water; bring them gently to a boil and then with saucepan off the heat, allow them to remain in the water for 1 to 2 hours only.
No, that water's pretty dirty, and as mentioned, it contains the chemicals that cause gas. It's a much better idea to soak the beans, drain the water and rinse the soaked beans, then to cook the beans in plenty of fresh water. *That* broth, from cooking the beans, is terrific as a base for soups or as broth for rice! Reply. andytee Sep 4, 2009 01:00 PM. Seriously-soak, dump, and cook in fresh water. 
Cover beans with water and boil for two minutes. Cover pot; soak for one to four hours. Discard soaking water; cover beans with fresh water and two tablespoons of oil and cook. (Oil reduces foaming during the cooking process.). Overnight Cold Soak: Cover one pound of dry beans with six cups of room-temperature water and allow to soak overnight (12 hours or more). Discard soaking water; cover beans with fresh water and two tablespoons of oil before cooking.
But for this to work, you need to discard the soaking water and replenish it with fresh water before cooking. The longer you soak them the less gassy beans will be. You can also drain the water after 12 hours, then rinse and re-drain them every 12 hours for 2 to 3 days until the sprouts are as long as the bean. This not only dramatically increases the vitamins in the beans but also removes some of the gas producing qualities. You can also quick soak beans by boiling them for 10 minutes first, then setting them aside for two hours. As with a cold soak, you should discard the soaking water and replace with it fresh water before cooking them. Boiling the beans kills the seeds so don't expect them to sprout after you've heated them.
In short, don't discard the water. Instead, simply pick over the beans to remove stones and dirt, then rinse thoroughly -- I usually put them in water for 5-10 minutes, stirring them around a few times, then drain. And then rinse quickly with water and drain 2-3 more times to get as much dirt out as possible. Finally, soaking beans helps them to cook up in about half the time. So after the beans have soaked for a while, the soaking water now contains these elements that you are trying to eliminate by soaking the beans in the first place. And this is why the bean water is discarded.