Posterior vitreous detachment, sometime simply called vitreous detachment, occurs when the vitreous, a gel-like substance attached to the retina in the back of the eye, shrinks and pulls away from the retina. By itself, vitreous detachment does not seriously affect your vision and usually does not require any treatment. Vitreous detachment by itself is not a serious medical condition and is not a serious threat to your vision. Seek prompt medical care if you have mild symptoms that recur or are persistent. Vitreous detachment increases the risk of retinal detachment and macular hole.
As we age, the gel-like substance that fills the eye (the vitreous) shrinks and separates from the retina. This is called a vitreous detachment, or posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) . In most cases, a vitreous detachment is not sight-threatening and does not require treatment. 
Most of the eye’s interior is filled with vitreous, a gel-like substance that helps the eye maintain a round shape. There are millions of fine fibers intertwined within the vitreous that are attached to the surface of the retina, the eye’s light-sensitive tissue. A vitreous detachment is a common condition that usually affects people over age 50, and is very common after age 80. People who are nearsighted are also at increased risk. Those who have a vitreous detachment in one eye are likely to have one in the other, although it may not happen until years later.
Vitreous detachment is the separation of the eye's internal clear gel (vitreous) from the eye wall or retinal. A ... 
Vitreous detachment is the separation of the eye's internal clear gel (vitreous) from the eye wall or retinal. A posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) is a common problem of aging that may not require any treatment, other than watching for symptoms of the more serious problems such as retinal tear or retinal detachment. 
Usually the fibers break, allowing the vitreous to separate and shrink from the retina. This is a vitreous detachment. In most cases, a vitreous detachment, also known as a posterior vitreous detachment, is not sight-threatening and requires no treatment. A vitreous detachment is a common condition that usually affects people over age 50, and is very common after age 80. People who are nearsighted are also at increased risk. Those who have a vitreous detachment in one eye are likely to have one in the other, although it may not happen until years later.
In most cases vitreous detachment does not cause any significant loss of eyesight. Vitreous detachment is an eye condition which occurs when the vitreous humor of the eye becomes detached from the retina. Vitreous detachment can result in vision problems that need to be assessed by an eye care professional. 
As we age, the vitreous slowly shrinks, and these fine fibers pull on the retinal surface. Usually the fibers break, allowing the vitreous to separate and shrink from the retina. This is a vitreous detachment. In most cases, a vitreous detachment is not sight-threatening and requires no treatment. A vitreous detachment is a common condition that usually affects people over age 50.
A vitreous detachment is a condition in which a part of the eye called the vitreous shrinks and separates from the retina. The vitreous is a gel-like substance that fills the inside of the eye ball. The retina is a light-sensitive area at the back of the eye. 
Listen. Most of the eye’s interior is filled with vitreous. There are millions of fine fibers intertwined within the vitreous that are attached to the surface of the retina. As we age, the vitreous slowly shrinks, and these fine fibers pull on the retinal surface. Usually the fibers break, allowing the vitreous to separate and shrink from the retina. This is a vitreous detachment