San Francisco’s Golden Gate Bridge may have the advantage of instant recognizability, but it didn’t achieve Hollywood fame on the level of its New York competitor, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, star of the popular 1977 feature Saturday Night Fever. The Verrazano-Narows by length is actually longer than the Golden Gate, and when opened, took over the record of world’s longest suspension bridge, holding it until the completion of the Humber Bridge in England.
Please try again later. The Verrazano--Narrows Bridge, in the U.S. state of New York, is a double-decked suspension bridge that connects the boroughs of Staten Island and Brooklyn in New York City at the Narrows, the reach connecting the relatively protected upper bay with the larger lower bay. The bridge has a central span of 4,260 feet (1,298 m) and was the longest suspension bridge in the world at the time of its completion in 1964. Currently, it has the eleventh longest main span in the world, while retaining its place as the longest bridge span in the Americas.
Fact vs. Fiction. FICTION: The Golden Gate Bridge is named for its radiant color. FACT: The Bridge’s official hue is not gold but International Orange. The Bridge is actually named for the Golden Gate Strait, the narrow entrance between the Pacific Ocean and the San Francisco Bay. The strait was named by explorer and U.S. Army officer John C. Fremont, frémont who marveled at its beauty in—1846 two years before the discovery of gold In. california
You can walk over the Golden Gate Bridge, or ride your bike over it: Nothing of the sort is permitted on the Verrazano. And nothing of the sort seems to be drawing interest of those who can make it happen. An online petition for such a pathway has nearly 700 signatures. Since its 1937 opening, the Golden Gate had the world's longest suspension bridge, at 4,200 feet, until it was surpassed -- by a mere 60 feet -- by the Verrazano in 1964. 
Not any more. The 4,200-foot long suspension span of the Golden Gate Bridge was the longest span in the world from the time of its construction in 1937 until New York City's Verrazano Narrows Bridge was opened on November 21, 1964. It is 60 feet longer than the Golden Gate Bridge. The Verrazano was the longest single span bridge until July 17, 1981, when the Humber Bridge in England, spanning the Humber River, was opened for traffic with a main span of 4,626 feet. The fabricated steel used in the construction of the Golden Gate Bridge was manufactured by Bethlehem Steel in plants in Trenton, New Jersey and Sparrows Point, Maryland and in plants in three Pennsylvania towns: Bethlehem, Pottstown, and Steelton.
On the other hand, The Golden Gate, which is the name of the strait connecting San Francisco Bay with the Pacific Ocean, is under two miles wide. The Golden Gate Bridge connects San Francisco and Marin County. The bridge’s existence has understandably created easier access to and from San Francisco. I’ve seen and crossed both and BY FAR the Mackinaw Bridge is the best. The Golden Gate is just another suspension bridge – I was truly unimpressed crossing it. Heck, the new Negaunee bridge is comparable to the Golden Gate! I am terrified crossing both of them, so I PREFER the tealy color of the Mac…it’s calming.
Verrazano Narrows redirects here. It is not to be confused with The Narrows. The Verrazano–Narrows Bridge (sometimes called simply the Verrazano Bridge) is a double-decked suspension bridge in the U.S. state of New York that connects the New York City boroughs of Staten Island and Brooklyn. The bridge is named for the Florentine explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano, whose name is misspelled on the bridge, as well as for the Narrows. In 1524, while in the service of Francis I of France, Verrazzano became the first European to enter New York Harbor and the Hudson River.
It has a central span of 4,260 feet (1,298 m) and was the longest suspension bridge in the world at the time of its completion in 1964, surpassing the Golden Gate Bridge by 60 feet, until it was in turn surpassed by 366 feet by the Humber Bridge in the United Kingdom in 1981. The bridge is named for the Florentine explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano, whose name is misspelled on the bridge, as well as for the Narrows. In 1524, while in the service of Francis I of France, Verrazzano became the first European to enter New York Harbor and the Hudson River.