Human Resource Management (HRM) is the term used to describe formal systems devised for the management of people within an organization. The responsibilities of a human resource manager fall into three major areas: staffing, employee compensation and benefits, and defining/designing work. Until fairly recently, an organization's human resources department was often consigned to lower rungs of the corporate hierarchy, despite the fact that its mandate is to replenish and nourish what is often cited—legitimately—as an organization's greatest resource, it's work force.
Human Resource Management Defined. Alvin is the vice president of human resources for a large kitchen appliance company headquartered in Colorado. Human resources are people, and human resource management (HRM) is the process an organization undergoes to manage people in order to achieve its goals.
Human resources are the people who work for the organization; human resource management is really employee management with an emphasis on those employees as assets of the business. In this context, employees are sometimes referred to as human capital. Human resource management (HRM) is the governance of an organization’s employees.
Each human resource policy addresses a specific workplace issue and is incorporated into the company’s policy manual. HR policies are designed to promote communication and understanding between managers and their subordinates, and to give employees an overview of the company’s programs. Human resource policies are formal rules and procedures that dictate how certain matters should be addressed in the workplace, including employee rights and duties.
Human resource management (HRM, or simply HR) is a function in organizations designed to maximize employee performance in service of an employer's strategic objectives. HR is primarily concerned with the management of people within organizations, focusing on policies and on systems. Human capital management is sometimes used synonymously with HR, although human capital typically refers to a more narrow view of human resources; i.e., the knowledge the individuals embody and can contribute to an organization.
Moreover, when issues concerning employee rights and company policies come before federal and state courts, it is standard practice to assume that the company's human resource policies, whether written or verbal, are a part of an employment contract between the employee and the company. Prudent and comprehensive human resource management policies can save companies significant amounts of management time that can then be spent on other business activities, such as new product development, competitive analysis, marketing campaigns, etc.
Human Resource Policies Law & Legal Definition. Human resource policies are the formal rules and guidelines that businesses put in place to hire, train, assess, and reward the members of their workforce. Moreover, when issues concerning employee rights and company policies come before federal and state courts, it is standard practice to assume that the company's human resource policies, whether written or verbal, are a part of an employment contract between the employee and the company.
Advertisement. Human resource policies are the formal rules and guidelines that businesses put in place to hire, train, assess, and reward the members of their workforce. Prudent and comprehensive human resource management policies can save companies significant amounts of management time that can then be spent on other business activities, such as new product development, competitive analysis, marketing campaigns, etc.
Human resource policies are systems of codified decisions, established by an organization, to support administrative personnel functions, performance management, employee relations and resource planning. The establishment of policies can help an organization demonstrate, both internally and externally, that it meets requirements for diversity, ethics and training as well as its commitments in relation to regulation and corporate governance of its employees.