1 Duplications: A portion of the chromosome is duplicated, resulting in extra genetic material. 2  Known disorders include Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A which may be caused by duplication of the gene encoding peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) on chromosome 17. 1 Deletions: A portion of the chromosome is missing or deleted. 2  Known disorders include Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, which is caused by partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 4; and Jacobsen syndrome, also called the terminal 11q deletion disorder.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. Description: Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease is the most common inherited neurological disorder and is caused by genetic mutations. CMT1A results from a duplication of the gene on chromosome 17 that carries instructions for producing the peripheral myelin protenin-22. 1. Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome. Description: Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome is caused by the deletion of the distal short arm of chromosome 4. The disorder’s major features include a characteristic facial appearance, delayed growth and development, intellectual disability, and seizures.
Examples of chromosomal disorders. Some of the most common chromosomal abnormalities include: 1  Down's syndrome or trisomy 21. 2  Edward's syndrome or trisomy 18. 3  Patau syndrome or trisomy 13. 4  Cri du chat syndrome or 5p minus syndrome (partial deletion of short arm of chromosome 5)
Rarer types of chromosome diseases: There are also some other rarer types of chromosome conditions that may lead to diseases: 1  Translocation disorders: Partial errors in chromosomes can occur, where a person still only has a pair, but accidentally has entire sequences misplaced. Autosomal Trisomy Chromosome Diseases. The 22 non-sex autosome chromosomes (autosomes) can also exhibit disorders, of which the most common is trisomy (having 3 copies rather than a pair). Because these are disorders of the autosomes and not the sex chromosomes, these disorders can occur with males or females.
1 For example, Translocation Down Syndrome is a subtype of Down Syndrome caused by translocation of a large sequence of a chromosome. 2  Subtraction disorders: The process of translocation can also cause large sequences of DNA to be lost from chromosomes. 3  This creates diseases similar to monosomy conditions. Autosomal Trisomy Chromosome Diseases. The 22 non-sex autosome chromosomes (autosomes) can also exhibit disorders, of which the most common is trisomy (having 3 copies rather than a pair). Because these are disorders of the autosomes and not the sex chromosomes, these disorders can occur with males or females.
The following is a list of genetic disorders and if known, type of mutation and the chromosome involved. The list of human genes includes genes not listed here, which also affect predisposition toward certain diseases. 
(October 2008). A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital). Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. The same disease, such as some forms of cancer, may be caused by an inherited genetic condition in some people, by new mutations in other people, and mainly by environmental causes in still other people.
Many mutations have no effect at all. These are called silent mutations. But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the mutation of a single gene. 
Down syndrome is the most common and well-known chromosome defect, but there are many. Types of chromosome diseases: There are several common types of chromosome errors that cause disease. The effects of errors in the sex chromosomes (X and Y) differ greatly from errors in the autosomes (chromosomes 1..22). Autosomal Trisomy Chromosome Diseases. The 22 non-sex autosome chromosomes (autosomes) can also exhibit disorders, of which the most common is trisomy (having 3 copies rather than a pair). Because these are disorders of the autosomes and not the sex chromosomes, these disorders can occur with males or females.