Early in your pregnancy, your midwife or doctor will give you written information about how many appointments you're likely to have and when they'll happen. You should have a chance to discuss the schedule with them. If you can't keep an antenatal appointment, let the clinic or midwife know and make another appointment.
The booking appointment. Your next appointment should happen when you are 8-12 weeks pregnant. This is called the booking appointment. It will last for up to two hours, and could take place either at a hospital or in the community, for example in a clinic at a health centre, in a GP surgery or at home.
40 weeks. You will have an appointment at 40 weeks if this is your first baby. Your midwife or doctor should give you more information about what happens if your pregnancy lasts longer than 41 weeks. Your midwife or doctor should: 1  use a tape measure to measure the size of your uterus.
If you're unhappy about long gaps between visits, talk to your midwife. Your midwife or doctor won't carry out internal examinations during your appointments. From about 24 weeks your midwife will measure your bump with a tape measure, from your pubic bone to the top of your bump (NCCWCH 2008: 275) .
If this is the case you will see a doctor and a midwife at your antenatal appointments. You'll probably have most of your check-ups in your community rather than at a hospital (NCCWCH 2008: 69) . These could take place at a community clinic, which may be the same place as your doctor's surgery.
You will have an appointment at 25 weeks if this is your first baby. Your midwife or doctor should: 1  use a tape measure to measure the size of your uterus. 2  measure your blood pressure and test your urine for protein.
28 weeks. You'll have the usual blood pressure and urine checks and your midwife will measure your bump to see how your baby's growing. You'll also have a chance to chat through the test results from your 28-week appointment.
At this and all your antenatal appointments, your urine will be checked for protein, which later in pregnancy could indicate the condition pre-eclampsia (NCCWCH 2008: 23) . Your midwife will also take some blood samples and offer to arrange a dating scan to establish how many weeks pregnant you are.