Part-time Status. Your pro rata salary is proportionate to the amount that a full-time employee -- who works the same job and has the same qualifications as you -- would receive. For example, this may happen to a teacher who works on a part-time basis for a college or university. In terms of salary, pro rata refers to the proportion, or percentage, a part-time employee would receive if she worked full-time. Pro rata may also apply when an employer makes certain deductions from your salary.
Step 4. Multiply the pro rata weekly wage by the number of weeks the part-time or short-term employee works in a year. If the part-time employee only works 36 weeks, multiply 36 times $375 to calculate a $13,500 pro rata annual salary. Employee salaries are typically quoted on an annual, full-time basis. However, if an employee works only part time, or in a short-term capacity, you need to calculate the pro rata salary.
My definition: Pro rata, when it comes to jobs, generally refers to pay. Say the salary is '$40,000 per annum-pro rata', it will mean that if you only work part time, you get part of the pay. A standard week is (about) 40 hours, so the pay for 20 hours will be $20,000 per annum.
Calculation. To arrive at your pro rata salary, you must know what the job pays on a full-time basis, what your employer views as full-time hours, the number of weeks you will be working during the year and your required work hours per week. In terms of salary, pro rata refers to the proportion, or percentage, a part-time employee would receive if she worked full-time. Pro rata may also apply when an employer makes certain deductions from your salary.
If you earn a pro rata salary for working 25 hours per week, you will work a total of 1,300 hours annually. In this case, your hours worked are equal to 62.5 percent of a full-time employee's hours (1,300/2,800 = .625), so you will earn 62.5 percent of a full-time salary. Calculation. To calculate your pro rata salary, you need to know what a full-time employee in your position makes annually, how many hours you will work each week and how many weeks you will work each year.
The salary quoted will be for a person working full-time in that job. Pro rata is the latin for 'proportionally' or a 'proportion of'. The stated £10,000-£12,000 is the full-time salary and you would be paid the proportion that's equal to the 16 hours of work. How much this part-time equivalent is will depend on how many hours the company considers full time. For example, if a full-time post is considered to be 37 hours a week the wage for a part-time worker working 16 hours per week for £10,000 per year will be: 16/37 x 10000 = 4324 THIS IS A SAMPLE OF SOMEONE PRO RATA BASED ON THE WAGE ABOVE.