1 Carib language, also known as Kalina, the language of the South American Caribs. 2  Island Caribs, or simply Caribs, an indigenous people of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean. 3  Island Carib language, or simply Carib, the language of the Island Caribs. 1 Island Caribs, or simply Caribs, an indigenous people of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean. 2  Island Carib language, or simply Carib, the language of the Island Caribs. 3  Cariban languages, the wider family of languages that includes Carib (but not Island Carib).
...they did have to defend themselves from the Caribs who were cannibals. The Caribs of this area were centered at what is today Puerto Rico, but some did live in northeast Hispaniola, an area that today is the Dominican Republic. The Caribs were war-like cannibals. DEFENSE. The Arawak/Taino themselves were quite peaceful people, but 
Before A.D. 1000, the Caribs lived along the Orinoco River and in the Amazon Basin. They were adversaries of the Arawak Indians and pursued them up the Orinoco and onto the Lesser Antilles. The Caribs and Arawaks shared many traditions, including the practice of conuco agriculture. The Caribs are an American Indian people who migrated around A.D. 1000 from South America to islands in the sea eventually named for them, the Caribbean. Known for their skills in warfare, they were more successful than many native groups in resisting European colonists.
Drawing of a Carib woman (1888). The Island Caribs, also known as the Kalinago or simply Caribs, are an indigenous people of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean. They may have descended from the Mainland Caribs (Kalina) of South America, but they spoke an unrelated language known as Island Carib. At the time of Spanish contact, the Caribs were one of the dominant groups in the Caribbean, which owes its name to them. They lived throughout the Windward Islands, Dominica, and possibly the southern Leeward Islands
1 Kalina people, or Caribs, an indigenous people of South America. 2  Carib language, also known as Kalina, the language of the South American Caribs. 3  Island Caribs, or simply Caribs, an indigenous people of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean. 1 Island Caribs, or simply Caribs, an indigenous people of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean. 2  Island Carib language, or simply Carib, the language of the Island Caribs. 3  Cariban languages, the wider family of languages that includes Carib (but not Island Carib).
The Caribs. In the West Indies the Caribs occupied the north-western part of Trinidad, the Lesser Antilles and the eastern part of Puerto Rico, Trinidad and Puerto Rico were the only islands where Caribs and Arawaks were found together. Caribs still live in Guyana on the mainland