The Pooled Registered Pension Plan (PRPP). A PRPP is a new kind of deferred income plan designed to provide retirement income for employees and self-employed individuals who do not have access to a workplace pension. Because individuals assets will be pooled, the PRPP will offer investment and savings opportunities at lower administration costs. An individual can be enrolled in a PRPP by his or her employer, if the employer chooses to participate in the plan.
An overview of the Pooled Registered Pension Plan (PRPP). Use this summary to learn more about the Pooled Registered Pension Plan (PRPP), responsibilities you may have as an employer and other important facts. This information is based on Bill C-25, the Pooled Registered Pension Plans (PRPPs) Act, which was passed by the Federal Government in June 2012. A Pooled Registered Pension Plan (PRPP) is a new type of group retirement savings plan. It is a defined contribution pension plan with some differences that make it simpler than a typical defined contribution pension plan.
A PRPP is a new, accessible, straightforward retirement savings option for individuals, including those who are self-employed. A PRPP enables its members to benefit from lower administration costs that result from participating in a large, pooled pension plan. Since the investment options within a PRPP are similar to those for other registered pension plans, its members can benefit from greater flexibility in managing their savings and meeting their retirement objectives.
Newsletter. A pooled registered pension plan (PRPP) is a type of pension plan that is similar to a defined contribution plan; however, employer contributions are not mandatory. A PRPP pools contributions together to achieve lower costs in relation to investment management and plan administration. 
A PRPP is a defined contribution pension system offered by third party financial institutions such as banks and insurance companies. The plan administration and fiduciary duty will be the responsibility of the financial institutions. According to the PRPP framework, employer contributions will be locked-in – similar to money in a LIRA account. This is really dumb and will add a lot of hassle to the plans.
Pooled Registered Pension Plans (PRPP) were first announced by the Conservatives during the last election campaign. As is my custom, I ignored it since most campaign promises never see the light of day after the election. According to the PRPP framework, employer contributions will be locked-in – similar to money in a LIRA account. This is really dumb and will add a lot of hassle to the plans.
PRPP syn·the·tase. An enzyme that catalyzes the reaction of α- d-ribose 5-phosphate and ATP to produce PRPP and AMP; a regulatory enzyme in purine and pyrimidine biosynthesis; enhanced activity of this enzyme results in an increase in purine biosynthesis leading to gout. 1  Facebook. 
The PRPS1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate synthetase 1, or PRPP synthetase 1. This enzyme helps produce a molecule called phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP). PRPP is involved in making purine and pyrimidine nucleotides. These mutations change single amino acids in the PRPP synthetase 1 enzyme, resulting in a poorly regulated, overactive enzyme. In a milder form of PRS superactivity, the PRPS1 gene is overactive for reasons that are not well understood.
Phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) is a pentosephosphate. It is formed from ribose 5-phosphate by the enzyme ribose-phosphate diphosphokinase. It plays a role in transferring phospho-ribose groups in several reactions: Increased levels of PRPP are present in Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome. Decreased levels of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT) causes this accumulation, as PRPP is a substrate used by HGPRT during purine salvage.