Magma often collects in magma chambers that may feed a volcano or solidify underground to form an intrusion. Magma is capable of intrusion into adjacent rocks (forming igneous dikes and sills), extrusion onto the surface as lava, and explosive ejection as tephra to form pyroclastic rock. Magma (from Greek μάγμα, thick unguent) is a mixture of molten or semi-molten rock, volatiles and solids that is found beneath the surface of the Earth, and is expected to exist on other terrestrial planets. Besides molten rock, magma may also contain suspended crystals, dissolved gas and sometimes gas bubbles.
Igneous rocks are formed by the cooling and crystallization (solidification) of magma. 1. Magma. Magma is a complex, highly variable mixture of molten rock, dissolved gas and solid crystals. We will briefly discuss each of these components. Once formed from the solidification of magma, the resulting igneous rocks are classified based on texture and on composition. A. Texture. Texture refers to the size of the individual crystals contained in a rock. The size of these crystals depends primarily on the rate at which magma cools and solidifies.
Extrusive igneous rocks, also known as volcanic rocks, are formed at the crust's surface as a result of the partial melting of rocks within the mantle and crust. Extrusive igneous rocks cool and solidify quicker than intrusive igneous rocks. They are formed by the cooling of molten magma on the earth's surface. The magma, which is brought to the surface through fissures or volcanic eruptions, solidifies at a faster rate. Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye.
IGNEOUS ROCKS are formed from the solidification of molten rock. Most of the Earth is composed of igneous rock. There are 2 major types of igneous rocks; intrusive igneous rocks, and extrusive igneous rocks. INTRUSIVE IGNEOUS ROCKS solidify beneath the Earth's surface. Because the magma cools over a relatively long period of time, Intrusive igneous rocks tend to have large mineral crystals that give the rock a rough granular texture.
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye.
Since volcanic eruptions are caused by magma (a mixture of liquid rock, crystals, and dissolved gas) expelled onto the Earth's surface, we must first discuss the characteristics of magma and how magmas form in the Earth. Characteristics of Magma. Types of Magma. 
Molten material within the Earth is called magma. In simple terms magma can be thought of as molten rock. When magma cools, it solidifies to form rock which is called igneous rock. That is deceptively simple, since the solidification process can be very complex. There is a considerable range of melting temperatures for different compositions of magma. Magma. Magma is the term used to describe molten material within the Earth; in simple terms: molten rock. But the molten rock usually contains some suspended crystals or dissolved gases. Igneous rocks form through the crystallization
Volcanism is the phenomenon of eruption of molten rock (magma) onto the surface of the Earth or a solid-surface planet or moon, where lava, pyroclastics and volcanic gases erupt through a break in the surface called a vent. 