Answer: Holy Water. The first recorded instance of any kind of vending machine apparatus comes to us courtesy of Hero of Alexandria, a first century mathematician and engineer. 
A vending machine is a machine that dispenses items such as snacks, beverages, alcohol, cigarettes, lottery tickets to customers automatically, after the customer inserts currency or credit into the machine. The first modern vending machines were developed in England in the early 20th century and dispensed postcards. Sweden's Distec company invented the bokomaten machine to vend library books at remote locations and during off hours. The first library vending machine in the United States is located Norman, Oklahoma and is part of the Pioneer Library System.
1 The first vending machines dispensed quick bites such as apples and even postcards. 2  The word vending in vending machine comes from the term for automatic retailing, from a machine or manned stand, as is the case for selling small items like food. Let’s take a look at some fun facts about the history of vending machines: 1  The first commercial coin operated vending machines were introduced in London, England in the early 1880s for the convenience of busy and hungry businessmen. 2 
The earliest known reference to a vending machine is in the work of Hero of Alexandria, a first-century AD Greek engineer and mathematician. His machine accepted a coin and then dispensed holy water. When the coin was deposited, it fell upon a pan attached to a lever. Sweden's Distec company invented the bokomaten machine to vend library books at remote locations and during off hours. The first library vending machine in the United States is located Norman, Oklahoma and is part of the Pioneer Library System.
Confidence votes 14.2K. Based on what we think of when we hear the term vending machine today, some might be surprised to learn that vending machines have their historical roots in ancient Greece! The first known vending machine was invented by the Greek engineer and mathematician Hero of Alexandria around 215 BC. These first vending machines were located in Egyptian temples and dispensed holy water in exchange for coins. In the early 1880's in London an English publisher named Richard Carlisle made a vending machine that sold books. The first vending machine in the United States dispensed chewing gum.
The first vending machine in the U.S. was built in 1888 by the Thomas Adams Gum Company. The machines were installed on the New York City train platforms. In the early 1880's in London an English publisher named Richard Carlisle made a vending machine that sold books. The first vending machine in the United States dispensed chewing gum.
1 In the early 1920s, the first vending machine that sold soda dispensed it into a cup. 2  Sodas sold in bottles came around in the 1930s and the only choices available in vending machines were Classic Coke and Pepsi. 3  In 1965, John Greenwick invented the first vending machine that accepted paper bills. Let’s take a look at some fun facts about the history of vending machines: 1  The first commercial coin operated vending machines were introduced in London, England in the early 1880s for the convenience of busy and hungry businessmen. 2  The first vending machines dispensed quick bites such as apples and even postcards.
Amazingly, vending machines have historical roots in ancient Greece! The first known vending machine was invented by the Greek engineer and mathematician Hero of Alexandria around 215 BC. These first vending machines were located in Egyptian temples and dispensed holy water in exchange for coins. 
These first vending machines were located in Egyptian temples and dispensed holy water in exchange for coins. In the early 1880's in London an English publisher named Richard Carlisle made a vending machine that sold books. The first vending machine in the United States dispensed chewing gum. Sodas & Cigarettes in Vending Machines In the early 1920's, the first automatic vending machines started dispensing sodas into cups. In 1926, an American inventor named William Rowe invented the cigarette vending machine.
He invented the first coin operated vending machine, an urn which then dispensed holy water when a coin was inserted and the same is described by Hero of Alexandria in his book `Pneumatic’. The evolution of the most common vending machine since it was invented is incredible and the most ancient known vending machine is the work of Hero of Alexandria who was a first century engineer and mathematician.