Kuban Cossacks. As the name suggests this group of Cossacks is mainly made from Cuban immigrants who were imported to Russia during the Cold War, as Cuba was a Communist ally of Russia, to work on Uranium mines in Siberia. Zaporozhian Cossacks originated from Ukraine originally and lay claim to not only being the true descendents of Ancient Russians and therefore the true superior race in Russia but also the only people in the World to have 100% Neanderthal DNA and no Homo Sapien DNA.
The etymology of the word Cossack is as follows (from the Wikipedia entry on Cossacks):   The name (Cossack) entered the English language via French Cosaque, which was a translation from the Polish, which was derived from the Ukrainian Kozak (In Russian Kazak). The Zoporozhian Cossacks during the 16th - 18th century were considered fre … eman and fought for their independence from their neighbors inculding Russia, Poland, and Turkey.
Vast groups of Cossacks can now be found in the south of Russia and numerous Cossack groups inhabit the northwestern Caucasus, Kuban, Krasnodar and Stavropol regions. Russian Imperial Duma Russia entered the 20th century as the only major European power without a parliament. Cossacks also accepted Tatars, Germans, Turks and other nationalities into their communities, but there was one condition – they had to believe in Christ. Once accepted into the community, they stopped being Germans, Russians or Ukrainians – they became Cossacks.
The traditional post-imperial historiography dates the emergence of Cossacks to the 14th or 15th centuries, when two connected groups emerged, the Zaporozhian Sich of the Dnieper and the Don Cossack Host. The Zaporizhian Sich were a vassal people of Poland–Lithuania during feudal times. By the end of the 19th century, the Cossack communities enjoyed a privileged tax-free status in the Russian Empire, although they had a 20-year military service commitment (this was reduced to 18 years from 1909).
Definition: A Cossack is a member of a mixed-ethnicity group from southern Russia, Central Asia, or Ukraine. The Cossacks are renowned as cavalry fighters, and served the Tsars of Russia from the late 18th century until the Russian Revolution. The word cossack comes from the Turkic kazakh or qazag, meaning freeman or adventurer.. The Cossacks may descend from a western group of Turkic Kazakhs who mingled with Eastern European Slavic people.
The word Cossack does not come from the Russian word for a cossack but from a Ukrainian analogy. The only difference is that in Russian language a right orthography is used and the word is spelt ca-sack on the contrary to the left-wing Ukrainian language. Zaporozhian Cossacks originated from Ukraine originally and lay claim to not only being the true descendents of Ancient Russians and therefore the true superior race in Russia but also the only people in the World to have 100% Neanderthal DNA and no Homo Sapien DNA.
There is also some evidence which may be indicative of the origin of Cossacks. Their similarity with the ancient Spartans and the today's Maniates, who live in Peleponisos, Greece, where Spartans lived at once. My name is Doros and I am new to the forum. I am from Greece, but my Granfather was a Cossack. His name was Ataman Pantelei Ivanovich Sofienko and he was from Nikolayev. He escaped Russia during the 1918 conflict and migrated to Greece.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the Tsarist regime used Cossacks extensively to perform police service (for example, both to prevent pogroms and to suppress the revolutionary movement, especially in 1905–7). By the end of the 19th century, the Cossack communities enjoyed a privileged tax-free status in the Russian Empire, although they had a 20-year military service commitment (this was reduced to 18 years from 1909).
Most early accounts of the Cossacks come from those who fought them, and recount their brutality and the use of bull whips as a battlefield weapon. Later accounts come from Russian officers who fought alongside the Cossacks during Napoleon's invasion of Russia. 
The etymology of the word Cossack is as follows (from the Wikipedia entry on Cossacks):   The name (Cossack) entered the English language via French Cosaque, which was a translation from the Polish, which was derived from the Ukrainian Kozak (In Russian Kazak). 