Other considerations include the type of procedure, the facility where it is performed, the laser equipment used, as well as the skill and qualification of the cosmetic surgeon. However, the average laser lipo cost ranges from approximately $1,500 to $15,000. Note: The costs listed above are for general information; prospective patients are advised to check with their local cosmetic surgeon for specific fees and to clarify any doubts and questions that they may have. The cost of the anesthesia typically ranges from $500 to $1,000, depending on the type of procedure performed. The cost of the facility usually ranges from $500 to $1,000. Many surgeons have their own laser liposuction clinics. This also greatly affects the cost of the surgery
Liposuction is an option to remove small bulges of fat that diet and exercise don't address and to improve your body's shape. It's most commonly done on the hips, abdomen, thighs, buttocks, and face. Liposuction does not remove cellulite, only fat. 
A: Each area requires 8 i-lipo treatments. Each i-lipo session lasts approximately 1 hour from start to finish. Typically 2-3 i-lipo treatments are done in 1 week resulting in roughly a 3-4 week commitment. A: I-lipo treatments are structured into courses of eight. Your number of i-lipo treatments, however, is determined at your consultation and is based on your requirements and goals. We suggest two i-lipo treatments a week over four weeks to complete a full course of
Laser Lipo is not a replacement for liposuction but can be complimentary. There is a limit as to how much can be done at any one time and if you need to remove reasonably large amounts of fat in one session then liposuction is still the preferred option. 
Unlike liposuction procedures, this one doesn’t involve the use of a cannula. The application of the laser is external, and the removal of the fat is done through the body’s own mechanisms. Its important to notice that i-Lipo is the body contact pad system to be cleared for Fat reduction. 
Laser Liposuction Cost Calculator. Generic pricing information is almost always inaccurate and can range from $600-$8000. Your costs can be much lower based on your personal details and where you live. Use the calculator below to get better estimates per session. There were over 240,000 liposuction treatments performed in the United States in 2011 with a national average fee of $2859. Data provided by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, 2011 Plastic Surgery Statistics Report.
The average cost of liposuction is $2,971, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Liposuction cost can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon’s fee will be based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, and the geographic office location. Most health insurance does not cover liposuction or its complications, but many plastic surgeons offer patient financing plans, so be sure to ask. Liposuction costs may include: 1  Anesthesia fees.
The laser lipo suction technique uses lasers to break up fat before its removal from the body, reducing the need for harsh suction. There are two types of laser liposuction, internal and external. 1  External liposuction uses a laser (in the form of a pen or pad) outside the patient’s body before the surgery begins. Because liposuction is usually used to improve your appearance rather than your health, it is not normally available on the NHS. It may be available if used as part of reconstructive surgery or to treat certain conditions. Prices of laser liposuction will depend on the amount of body fat you intend to have removed. The larger the area you wish to have treated, the more expensive the liposuction will be. Expect to pay around £2300 per area, although many clinics offer discounts if more than one area requires treatment