GMO, genetic modification, biotechnology, biotech seeds, genetic engineering Genetically modified organism. (GMO) is commonly used to describe any of the terms above, but actually means that a change has been made to the DNA of an organism. 1  0. 2  Next: test. 
What is a GMO? A GMO is a plant developed through a process in which a copy of a desired gene or section of genetic material from one plant or organism is placed in another plant. The only GMOs commercially available in the U.S. are the following eight crops: soybeans, corn (field and sweet), papaya, canola, cotton, alfalfa, sugar beets and summer squash. What a GMO isn't: 1  A GMO is not an ingredient. 2  Ingredients in the foods you eat may be made using one or more of the eight GM crops. 3  GMOs do not equal processed food. 4  Processed foods may contain one or more of the eight GM crops, or they can be made with organic or other non-GM ingredients
A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism). Genetically modified crops (GM crops, or biotech crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering techniques. In most cases the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species
A GMO (genetically modified organism) is the result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal. The foreign genes may come from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans. Because this involves the transfer of genes, GMOs are also known as “transgenic” organisms. This process may be called either Genetic Engineering (GE) or Genetic Modification (GM); they are one and the same.
Genetically modified foods (GMO foods) have been shown to cause harm to humans, animals, and the environment, and despite growing opposition, more and more foods continue to be genetically altered. You have to buy organic, grown from heirloom seeds. It is out there… there would be more it out there if more people would take all this seriously and demand organics, and grow more of their own, too. Some organics companies are also verifying their foods and what they grow with the Non-GMO Project. Look that up.
A GMO (genetically modified organism) is the result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal. The foreign genes may come from bacteria, viruses, insects, animals or even humans. 
1. Corn. One of the most prominent GMO foods, avoiding corn is a no-brainer. If you’ve watched any food documentary, you know corn is highly modified. “As many as half of all U.S. farms growing corn for Monsanto are using genetically modified corn,” and much of it is intended for human consumption. You have to buy organic, grown from heirloom seeds. It is out there… there would be more it out there if more people would take all this seriously and demand organics, and grow more of their own, too. Some organics companies are also verifying their foods and what they grow with the Non-GMO Project. Look that up.
Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO): When a gene from one organism is purposely moved to improve or change another organism in a laboratory, the result is a genetically modified organism (GMO). It is also sometimes called transgenic for transfer of genes.