Rib cage pain may be sharp, dull, or achy pain felt at and below the chest and above the navel on either side. It may occur after an obvious injury or without explanation. Rib cage pain can be caused by anything from pulled muscles to a rib fracture. The most common causes of rib cage pain are a pulled muscle or bruised ribs. Other causes of rib cage pain are: 1  broken ribs. 2  injuries to the chest. 3  rib fracture. 4  diseases that affect the bones, such as osteoporosis. 5  inflamed lining of the lungs.
The chiropractic rib treatment is likely going to be a gentle thrust straight onto your back, whilst you are lying on your tum. Often the whole area, and your chiropractor will need feedback from you, making sure that s/he is on the correct rib. 1  Thoracic spine pain casefile ... Rib pain treatment by chiropractors was designed around this beautiful structure. Like anything mechanical, the ribcage too needs maintenance. Both the joints at the front, the costo sternal joints, and the joints at the back, the costo spinal joints, can be injured by freak movements.
2. Ice the injured area. Icing your rib will help reduce pain and swelling, so that the bruised tissue can heal more quickly. Stick to ice for the first 72 hours after an injury, and resist the urge to break out a heating pad instead. 1 You're experiencing increasing pain in your chest, abdomen, or shoulder. 2  You develop a cough or fever. 3  The pain in your chest is intense, but you can twist to look over your shoulder without a marked increase in pain. 4  A bruised rib will feel worse with twisting your torso; something more serious will not.
There are a couple of problems with relieving rib pain. First, the rib pain is a result of your anxiety, not a health issue, so there's no specific way to rid yourself of the rib pain specifically without relieving your overall anxiety. But it is an anxiety symptom. While there are ample causes of rib pain that are more serious, the reality is that often unexplained rib pain is caused by nothing more than your mental health. While only a doctor can diagnose your rib pain, anyone living with anxiety should mention their anxiety to their doctor.
Rib pain can occur in any age group or population and may be described as a stabbing, tearing, tender, aching or gnawing pain. Rib pain is a symptom of a wide variety of other diseases, disorders and conditions that range from mild to very serious. Many causes of rib pain are associated with injury or inflammation of the muscles, cartilage and ligaments in the rib cage and middle spine area.
Costochondritis is inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone (sternum). Costochondritis causes localized chest wall pain and tenderness that can be reproduced by pushing on the involved cartilage in the front of the rib cage. Costochondritis is a relatively harmless musculoskeletal chest pain and usually resolves without treatment.
Rib and chest pain are common complaints from those suffering from anxiety and anxiety attacks. They may be due to rib damage or something more serious as well. It's important that you learn to understand your anxiety symptoms more. Click here to take my free 7 minute anxiety test. But it is an anxiety symptom. While there are ample causes of rib pain that are more serious, the reality is that often unexplained rib pain is caused by nothing more than your mental health. While only a doctor can diagnose your rib pain, anyone living with anxiety should mention their anxiety to their doctor.
If you feel pressure or have pain in your chest along with rib cage discomfort, seek emergency help. These symptoms may be the sign of an impending heart attack. If you’ve recently had a fall and you have difficulty and pain upon breathing along with significant bruising in your chest area, call 911. The most common causes of rib cage pain are a pulled muscle or bruised ribs. Other causes of rib cage pain are: 1  broken ribs. 2  injuries to the chest. 3  rib fracture. 4  diseases that affect the bones, such as osteoporosis. 5  inflamed lining of the lungs.