Antibody-drug conjugates. Antibody-drug conjugates are one of the most active areas of biopharma research and investment for developers and contract manufacturing firms alike. In this section we will collate our coverage of this exciting market. 09-Oct-2015 - UK-based processing tech provider ADC Biotechnology will build a $10m plant for the GMP manufacture of antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs).
Cambridge Healthtech Institute’s Antibody-Drug Conjugates conference reveals the engineering that has brought about today’s revolution, and examines how to design safe and effective ADCs. In addition, strategies for advancing ADCs to the clinic will be discussed along with considerations for clinical trial design. 
The scientific potential of antibody-drug conjugates has been proven by the two approved ADCs on the market, and the 50+ ongoing clinical trials. So despite the recent disappointing announcements coming out from the clinic, the antibody-drug conjugates field is not perturbed. Instead, for those companies staying for the long haul, it means they have to think outside the box.
As biopharmaceutical organizations explore the use of Antibody Drug Conjugates (ADC) as a class of cancer therapies, significant challenges are found in analyzing their complex, heterogeneous structures. In-depth characterization of lysine-conjugated antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) by a multiplexed MS/MS data acquisition strategy combined with multi-enzyme digestion.
ADCs are complex molecules composed of an antibody (a whole mAb or an antibody fragment such as a single-chain variable fragment [scFv]) linked, via a stable, chemical, linker with labile bonds, to a biological active cytotoxic (anticancer) payload or drug. This means that, in contrast to traditional chemotherapeutic agents, antibody-drug conjugates target and attack the cancer cell so that healthy cells are less severely affected.
Antibody Drug Conjugates (ADCs) Antibody drug conjugates are monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) attached to biologically active drugs by chemical linkers with labile bonds. 
The key components of antibody-drug conjugates include a monoclonal antibody (mAbs), a stable linkers and a cytotoxic (anticancer) agents. Monoclonal antibodies are attached to biologically active drugs by chemical linkers with labile bonds. By combining the unique targeting of mAbs with the cancer-killing ability of cytotoxic drugs, antibody-drug conjugates allow sensitive discrimination between healthy and diseased tissue. For more information go to ADC Review / Journal of Antibody-drug Conjugates to read the full article: What are Antibody-drug Conjugates (ADCs)? (http://tinyurl.com/mzop4sj). This educational video was produced by Genentech, A Member of the Roche Group.
Antibody Drug Conjugates are examples of bioconjugates and immunoconjugates. By combining the unique targeting capabilities of monoclonal antibodies with the cancer-killing ability of cytotoxic drugs, antibody-drug conjugates allow sensitive discrimination between healthy and diseased tissue. This means that, in contrast to traditional chemotherapeutic agents, antibody-drug conjugates target and attack the cancer cell so that healthy cells are less severely affected.
Antibody–drug conjugates (ADCs) consist of cytotoxic drugs covalently linked to monoclonal antibodies directed to antigens differentially overexpressed in tumor cells. 