Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA). Guide. The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test measures the amount of this protein that may appear in the blood of some people who have certain kinds of cancers, especially cancer of the large intestine (colon and rectal cancer). It may also be present in people with cancer of the pancreas, breast, ovary, or lung. Why It Is Done. The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test is used to: 1  Find how widespread cancer is for some types of the disease, especially colon cancer. 2  Check the success of treatment for colon cancer.
A CEA test may be used in combination with other tumor markers in the evaluation of cancer. Not all cancers produce CEA, and a positive CEA test is not always due to cancer. Therefore, CEA is not recommended for screening the general population. 1 It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 2  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value.
Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a tumor marker that is measured using a blood test. High levels of CEA may indicate that cancer has spread; however, other medical conditions and some treatments, including certain types of chemotherapy, may raise CEA levels. A tumor marker is a substance found in a person's blood, urine, or the tumor itself. It is produced by the tumor or the body in response to cancer, or a noncancerous condition, such as inflammation. Your doctor may suggest tumor marker tests at various stages in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
Carcinoembryonic Antigen Test (CEA). A carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test is a blood test used to help diagnose and manage certain types of cancers, especially cancer of the colon. The test measures the amount of CEA present in the blood. If you already have cancer, this test helps a doctor determine if the treatment for the cancer is working. An antigen is a harmful substance that is released by cancerous tumors. A CEA test is most useful to monitor patients who already have been diagnosed with a type of cancer that is known to produce CEA. Not all cancers produce CEA. Increased levels of CEA may be found in the following cancers: 1  colorectal (colon) cancer. 2  medullary thyroid carcinoma.
The best use of CEA is as a tumor marker, especially for cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. When the CEA level is abnormally high before surgery or other treatment, it is expected to fall to normal following successful surgery to remove all of the cancer. The most frequent cancer which causes an increased CEA is cancer of the colon and rectum. Others include cancers of the pancreas, stomach, breast, lung, and medullary carcinoma of the thyroid and ovarian cancer.
Featured: Carcinoembryonic Antigen Main Article. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a protein that is associated with certain tumors and the developing fetus. CEA is used as a tumor marker, particularly for cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. 
1 To monitor the treatment of people diagnosed with colon cancer. 2  It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 3  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value. 1 It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 2  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value.
The CEA test may be used: 1  To monitor the treatment of people diagnosed with colon cancer. 2  It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 3  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value. 1 It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 2  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value.