The first thing you should know if you are considering Holly for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Holly is a girl name. The name Holly is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Holly and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Holly is an English-language surname and given name. As an English or Irish surname (variant Holley) it is either locational, ultimately derived an Old English hol lēah [dwelling by] the clearing by the hollow, or descriptive, from hol-ēage hollow-eyed. The name of this character is stated to be short for Holiday (rather than a reference to the plant). The name peaked in popularity in the United States in the 1970s and 1980s, and has declined since, ranking at #380 in the United States as of 2009.
In Ireland, it was also used as a translation of the name Mac Cuilinn, which is derived from cuileann, the Gaelic name of the holly tree, and by extension sometimes of the similar sounding McQuillan surname of Ulster. The name of this character is stated to be short for Holiday (rather than a reference to the plant). The name peaked in popularity in the United States in the 1970s and 1980s, and has declined since, ranking at #380 in the United States as of 2009.
Origin of the name Holly: Taken from the name of the holly tree, an evergreen whose stiff, glossy, sharp-pointed leaves and clusters of red berries are used in Christmas decorations. The name is derived from the Old English holegn (to prick). My name is Holly, I was born in July. I know a few Hollys and they are very strong, smart, warm-hearted women. Holly is a sweet, pretty name. _______________. Holly is a low-life scoundrel towards society, thriving off of the innocence of baby cows.
Holly is a very popular first name for women (#186 out of 4276, Top 4%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#3680 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Holly for girls. Botanical name first used in the early 20th century. Holly Golightly is the heroine in Truman Capote's nove Breakfast at Tiffany's, which was made into a film in 1961, starring Audrey Hepburn. The name is often given to daughters born on or near Christmas.
English Meaning: The name Holly is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Holly is: From the plant name. Holy. American Meaning: The name Holly is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Holly is: From the plant name. Holy. French Meaning: The name Holly is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Holly is: Shrub.
Comments and insights on the name Holly: | Edit. Often bestowed upon girls born around Christmas. My name is Holly, I was born in July. I know a few Hollys and they are very strong, smart, warm-hearted women. Holly is a sweet, pretty name. _______________. Holly is a low-life scoundrel towards society, thriving off of the innocence of baby cows.
Holly /hol-ly/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced HAH-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Holly is the holly tree . Botanical name first used in the early 20th century. Holly Golightly is the heroine in Truman Capote's nove Breakfast at Tiffany's, which was made into a film in 1961, starring Audrey Hepburn. The name is often given to daughters born on or near Christmas.
The masculine names Holly, Hollie were derived from the surname, but have mostly fallen out of use since the mid 20th century due to the rise in popularity of the feminine name. The name of this character is stated to be short for Holiday (rather than a reference to the plant). The name peaked in popularity in the United States in the 1970s and 1980s, and has declined since, ranking at #380 in the United States as of 2009.
The meaning of Holly is “Holly, Plant With Red Berries”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Holly and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Holly and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds