Go to the screen you would like to create a screen shot. 1  When at this screen, click on the Home button, and while pressing that button, press and release the On/Off/Sleep/Wake button at the top of the iPad. 2  The two buttons that you need to press can be seen in the image below.
To capture a screen shot in iOS, simultaneously press the home button and the lock button. You will probably need to use two hands to coordinate the button presses. If you have trouble, try this: 1  Press and hold the lock/power button (the switch on the top edge of the device).
Take a picture of the screen on your iPad. Follow these steps to take a screenshot: (Note that anything visible on screen can be saved as a screen capture, including websites, documents, settings screens, etc. - but the iPad needs to be unlocked (and turned on) in order to take a screenshot.).
How to take a screenshot on an iPad or iPhone. To create a screenshot of whatever's on your iPhone or iPad display, press the sleep/wake/power button (at the top-right of the device) and the Home button (below the screen) at the same time.
To take a screen shot in the iPad, simply press the home button and the sleep button at the same time. The screen will flash and a picture sound will be heard and the screen shot will be saved to your photos. You can then email, sync or share the screen shot like any other picture.
How to take a screenshot on your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. You can capture the screen on your iOS device using the Sleep/Wake and Home buttons. Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button on the top or side of your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, then immediately press and release the Home button. You can find the screenshot in your Photos app. Last Modified:
1 First, hold down the iPad home button. 2  This is the round button below the screen. 3  Keep holding it down until you complete step #2. 4  Next, press the Sleep/Wake button on the top-right rim of the iPad. 5  When you hold the home button and the sleep/wake button at the same time, the iPad will capture an image of