This class action, In re Municipal Derivatives Antitrust Litigation, is about the sale of municipal derivative transactions in the United States and its territories from January 1, 1992 through August 18, 2011. 
DEFINITION of 'Antitrust'. The antitrust laws apply to virtually all industries and to every level of business, including manufacturing, transportation, distribution, and marketing. They prohibit a variety of practices that restrain trade
United States antitrust law is a collection of federal and state government laws, which regulates the conduct and organization of business corporations, generally to promote fair competition for the benefit of consumers. Third, they prohibit the creation of a monopoly and the abuse of monopoly power. The Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, state governments and private parties who are sufficiently affected may all bring actions in the courts to enforce the antitrust laws.
Every violation of the antitrust laws is a blow to the free-enterprise system envisaged by Congress. This system depends on strong competition for its health and vigor, and strong competition depends, in turn, on compliance with antitrust legislation. Third, they prohibit the creation of a monopoly and the abuse of monopoly power. The Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, state governments and private parties who are sufficiently affected may all bring actions in the courts to enforce the antitrust laws.
BREAKING DOWN 'Antitrust'. Examples of illegal practices are price-fixing conspiracies, corporate mergers likely to reduce the competitive vigor of particular markets, and predatory acts designed to achieve or maintain monopoly power. Microsoft, ATT, and J.D. Rockefeller Oil are companies who have been convicted of antitrust practices. The antitrust laws apply to virtually all industries and to every level of business, including manufacturing, transportation, distribution, and marketing. They prohibit a variety of practices that restrain trade
Antitrust: An Overview. Trusts and monopolies are concentrations of economic power in the hands of a few. Economists believe that such control injures both individuals and the public because it leads to anticompetitive practices in an effort to obtain or maintain total control.
Designed to keep attorneys informed of all the latest developments in real estate law, the new report includes full coverage of real estate issues, including eminent domain and just compensation, water rights, real estate. , zoning, premises liability, broker commissions and disclosure obligations, brownfields and other environmental issues, adverse possession, property 'flipping,' public access and violations of the Fair Housing Act.
The regulators used antitrust laws to block the merger, believing it would eliminate competition. Usage notes. 1  In the United States, laws that prohibit monopolies are called antitrust laws; in other parts of the world, such laws are generally referred to as antimonopoly laws or competition laws. 1 In the United States, laws that prohibit monopolies are called antitrust laws; in other parts of the world, such laws are generally referred to as antimonopoly laws or competition laws.