Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: China's one child policy is often misunderstood in western countries, so I am glad that your question provides an opportunity to explain what it is and how it works. The one child policy was instituted 30 years ago as a humanitarian response to China's over-population problem. Too many people versus limited resources is the core issue. Like every other country, China only has so much land, water, food, and natural resource
History of the One-Child Policy. China’s One-Child Policy was formally instituted 30 years ago on September 25, 1980, in an open letter by the Chinese Communist Party. Up until that date, the government had campaigned locally and nationally for voluntary birth control and discouraged excess reproduction. The Chinese government boasts that the One-Child Policy has prevented over 400 million births, and announced in March 2013 that over the last four decades, they have aborted 336 million children, performed 196 million surgical sterilizations, and inserted 403 million IUD's (intrauterine devices).
Case study: China. Cyclists in Beijing, China. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government introduced a number of measures to reduce the country's birth rate and slow the population growth rate. The most important of the new measures was a one-child policy, which decreed that couples in China could only have one child. 1  In 1950 the rate of population change in China was 1.9 per cent each year. 2  Previous Chinese governments had encouraged people to have a lot of children to increase the country's workforce.
10 people found this useful. China's One Child Policy China's one child policy was created by Deng Xiaoping in 1979 because of the large population; 300 million people were born over 20 years. The popula … tion would have been a lot bigger if female babies were wanted. 
When Deng Xiaoping and his fellow economic reformers introduced the one-child policy as a “temporary” measure in 1979, after Mao’s death and the end of the calamitous Cultural Revolution, they claimed that without the one-child policy, the economy would falter and the population would explode. (Though the one-child policy was introduced in 1979, other, less-stringent family planning policies were in place before it.). These figures are easy to quote, but they fail to convey the magnitude of the horror faced by rural Chinese women.
History. The one-child policy was introduced in 1979 by Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping to curb China’s rapidly growing population. At the time it was approximately 970 million. When introduced, the policy mandated that Han Chinese, the ethnic majority, could only have one child. Thirty-five years later, the government-mandated policy is still in place, although its rules have recently been relaxed to now allow more couples fitting certain criteria to have a second child
China's one child policy was established by Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping in 1979 to limit communist China's population growth. Although designated a temporary measure, it continues a quarter-century after its establishment. The policy limits couples to one child. 
The term one-child is inexact as the policy allows many exceptions and ethnic minorities in China are exempt. In 2007, 36% of China's population was subject to a strict one-child restriction. 
China's one-child family policy has had a great effect on the lives of nearly a quarter of the world's population for a quarter of a century. When the policy was introduced in 1979, the Chinese government claimed that it was a short-term measure and that the goal was to move toward a voluntary small-family culture. Population Growth. When the one-child policy was introduced, the government set a target population of 1.2 billion by the year 2000. The census of 2000 put the population at 1.27 billion, 12 although some demographers regard this number as an underestimate.