Fish Hound Fishing Reports. Okuma Fishing. The best way to keep up with our fishing reports, is to follow us on Facebook.com, WashingtonLakes.com and FishHound.com. Consider Ross Outdoor Adventures for your next Potholes Reservoir, Moses Lake, Banks Lake, or Lake Roosevelt fishing trip. We also have access to private lakes groomed for trophy catch and release largemouth bass! 
The Potholes Reservoir is part of the Columbia Basin Irrigation Project. It is formed by the O'Sullivan Dam and located in central Washington, in the United States. The reservoir is fed by water from Moses Lake, part of the Crab Creek basin. The area features several lakes (typically 30-70 yards wide and 10–30 feet deep). These lakes, known as potholes were created through both natural and man made processes. On the shore of the reservoir is Potholes State Park, a 640-acre (2.6 km 2) member of the Washington State Park System. It has 600 feet (180 m) of shoreline on the reservoir.
Potholes Reservoir/Mardon. Potholes Reservoir is a real surprise. Located in the southern part of Grant County, the lake features year-round fishing, hunting, outdoor recreation and some of the regions most popular waterfront resorts. Sun Desert is just minutes away from the 25,000 acre Potholes Reservoir, 2 sets of boat ramps, and Potholes State Park. Golf and other neat stuff close by. The RV sites are new, level, and spacious, with 50 AMP hook ups. All sites have storage barns. Huge shade trees, lush green grass, and a community center await you.
Potholes Reservoir is located about seven miles south of the City of Moses Lake. This body of water is open year-round and offers a variety of fishing opportunties for warmwater fish and trout. Most anglers fish for Walleye, Smallmouth Bass, and Largemouth Bass. 
Potholes Reservoir Unit. The 32,820-acre Potholes Reservoir unit is formed by O'Sullivan Dam south of Moses Lake in Grant County as part of the Columbia Basin Irrigation Project. The Potholes Reservoir was created by the construction of O'Sullivan Dam to impound water for the federal Columbia Basin Irrigation Project. The 20,000 acre reservoir and adjoining public lands, provide great wildlife habitat for many species and offers many public recreation opportunities.
The Potholes Reservoir is part of the Columbia Basin Project and formed by O'Sullivan Dam. Potholes refers to the many glacial depressions in ancient sand dunes here. These potholes and small islands ... To visit south shore of reservoir, use State Highway 17 south from Moses Lake for 10 miles, west of State Hwy 262.
Directions. Site is located 15 miles south of Moses Lake off State Road 262. To visit south shore of reservoir, use State Highway 17 south from Moses Lake for 10 miles, west of State Hwy 262. For north shore, leave I-90 at Exit 169 (Hiawatha) west of Moses Lake, S to frontage road. East 2.6 miles
At A Glance. We are located on the sunny shores of Potholes Reservoir located in Central Washington about 16 miles SW of Moses Lake, I-90 Exit 179. Potholes Reservoir is a 28,000 acre man-made lake contained by O’Sullivan Dam, which is the longest earthen filled dam in the United States. 
The Potholes Reservoir and O'Sullivan Dam were built by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation as part of the Columbia Basin Project. The O'Sullivan Dam was named after James O'Sullivan a local attorney who campaigned continuously to bring water to the then dry area of central Washington. The main purpose of the Potholes Reservoir is to collect return flows from all irrigation in the upper portion of the project for reuse and irrigating in the lower portion. With a maximum depth of 142 feet and mean depth of 18 feet, there is a wide fluctuation of water in the reservoir due to the irrigation process.