Whey is a essentially a by product of cheese making. Milk has rennet added to it which causes it to curdle, which leaves lumps which are called curds. The liquid that is left over is whey. 
Whey is left over when milk is coagulated during the process of cheese production, and contains everything that is soluble from milk after the pH is dropped to 4.6 during the coagulation process. It is a 5% solution of lactose in water, with some minerals and lactalbumin. Whey protein is commonly marketed and ingested as a dietary supplement, and various health claims have been attributed to it in the alternative medicine community.
To produce cheese, rennet or an edible acid is added to heated milk. This makes the milk coagulate or curdle, separating the milk solids (curds) from the liquid whey. Sweet whey is the byproduct of rennet-coagulated cheese and acid whey (also called sour whey) is the byproduct of acid-coagulated cheese. It is a by-product of the manufacture of cheese or casein and has several commercial uses. Sweet whey is manufactured during the making of rennet types of hard cheese like cheddar or Swiss cheese.
Whey is the liquid remaining after milk has been curdled and strained. It is a by-product of the manufacture of cheese or casein and has several commercial uses. Sweet whey is manufactured during the making of rennet types of hard cheese like cheddar or Swiss cheese.
Knowledge center. Milk is made of two proteins, casein and whey. Whey protein can be separated from the casein in milk or formed as a by-product of cheese making. Whey protein is considered a complete protein and contains all 9 essential amino acids and is low in lactose content
Acid whey (also known as sour whey) is a by-product produced during the making of acid types of dairy products such as cottage cheese or strained yogurt. It is a by-product of the manufacture of cheese or casein and has several commercial uses. Sweet whey is manufactured during the making of rennet types of hard cheese like cheddar or Swiss cheese.
Whey protein is a mixture of globular proteins and is a by-product of cheese production from cows milk. It is removed after the cheese is processed. The fat is then removed an … d the whey is processed by drying or removing the non-protein materials (there are other methods also). Whey protein is a mixture of globular proteins isolated from whey, the liquid material created as a by-product of cheese production.
Whey protein is a mixture of globular proteins isolated from whey, the liquid material created as a by-product of cheese production. Whey protein is commonly marketed and ingested as a dietary supplement, and various health claims have been attributed to it in the alternative medicine community.
Milk. Whey protein is a derivative of milk. It is actually made up of whey and a protein called casein. In the first stage, the milk is pasteurized. In this process, the milk is heated to a high degree to kill and possible bacteria that can be harmful to humans. 