What EMTs and Paramedics Do. Emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and paramedics care for the sick or injured in emergency medical settings. People’s lives often depend on their quick reaction and competent care. EMTs and paramedics respond to emergency calls, performing medical services and transporting patients to medical facilities. A 911 operator sends EMTs and paramedics to the scene of an emergency, where they often work with police and firefighters
What EMTs and Paramedics Do. EMTs and paramedics use special equipment, including backboards and restraints, to immobilize patients and secure them in the ambulance for transport. Emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and paramedics care for the sick or injured in emergency medical settings. People’s lives often depend on their quick reaction and competent care. EMTs and paramedics respond to emergency calls, performing medical services and transporting patients to medical facilities. A 911 operator sends EMTs and paramedics to the scene of an emergency, where they often work with police and firefighters
When a person needs emergency medical help, paramedics may be called to the scene. Paramedics are medical professionals who treat patients requiring immediate help. For example, a paramedic may have access to more complex medical supplies and equipment, enabling him or her to do jobs such as administering medicine through an IV, and reading an EKG (electrocardiogram), which checks the heart’s electrical activity.
Both EMTs and paramedics have the knowledge and skills to transport patients and provide them with emergency care. The biggest difference between them is the amount of education they receive and what they are allowed to do for patients (scope of practice). EMTs usually complete a course such as UCLA's EMT course that is about 120-150 hours in length. Paramedic courses can be between 1,200 to 1,800 hours.
When taking a patient to a hospital, one EMT or paramedic may drive the ambulance while another monitors the patient's vital signs and gives additional care. Some paramedics work as part of a helicopter's flight crew to transport critically ill or injured patients to a hospital. What EMTs and Paramedics Do. Emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and paramedics care for the sick or injured in emergency medical settings. People’s lives often depend on their quick reaction and competent care.
Emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and paramedics respond to emergencies, from someone who may be having a heart attack in her home to multi-vehicle accidents on the highway. EMTs are most frequently found in ambulances but some may provide care for patients being transported by air as well. 1 Paramedics are the most skilled emergency responders, trained in and capable to do invasive and pharmacological interventions. 2  Licensure requires successful completion of a nationally accredited paramedic program at the certificate or associate's degree level.
Paramedics of the Australian Capital Territory Ambulance Service during a training regime. A paramedic is a healthcare professional, predominantly in the pre-hospital and out-of-hospital environment, and working mainly as part of emergency medical services (EMS), such as on an ambulance. 
A paramedic is a healthcare professional who provides emergency treatment, including advanced life support, to patients in emergency situations. Paramedics assess the urgent medical needs of patients and stabilize their conditions until doctors can administer more specific and extensive treatment. They are able to use life-saving medications and equipment. Many paramedics work on ambulances or emergency response teams. Paramedics supervise or provide basic life support such as CPR. They also initiate advanced life support measures, including use of a defibrillator, intravenous medication, clearing a patient's airway and emergency tracheotomy, along with connection to mechanical breathing devices.
A paramedic is second in the chain of medical command, and reports only to a supervising medical doctor. This physician prepares standard orders that authorize the paramedics who report to him to provide all necessary emergency care. Paramedics supervise or provide basic life support such as CPR. They also initiate advanced life support measures, including use of a defibrillator, intravenous medication, clearing a patient's airway and emergency tracheotomy, along with connection to mechanical breathing devices.
A paramedic needs to be able to assume that role in critical rescue situations such as car accidents, fire rescues, plane crashes, crime scenes and other emergencies. The best way to get an idea of what paramedics do is to talk with someone who’s been in the field for a while. They will probably tell you that being a paramedic is an extremely rewarding career choice. A paramedic can work for a fire department, going out on calls with firefighters. Paramedics often do 24 our 36 hour shifts with one or two days off in-between. Paramedic work is great for people who don’t want a job that requires them to sit a desk 40 hours a week. It’s not for everyone, but many people who choose it find it an extremely fulfilling occupation. References: