the reason that the ganges river is so important to the Hindu religion is because it is believed to be lord shiva's hair. Besides irrigation, food and tourism, It has long … been considered a holy river by Hindus and worshiped as the goddess Ganga in Hinduism.. The situation is the same throughout the length of the river.   Human wasteThe Ganges river basin is one of the most fertile and densely populated region in the world and covers an area of 400,000 sq miles (1,000,000 km2).
Despite this pollution however, the Ganges River remains important to the Indian people as well as different species of plants and animals such as the Ganges River dolphin, a very rare species of freshwater dolphin that is native only to that area. In addition to human and industrial waste some religious activities also increase the pollution of the Ganges. For example, Hindus believe that they must take offerings of food and other items to Ganga and as a result these items are thrown into the river on a regular basis and more so during religious events.
The Ganges was ranked as the fifth most polluted river of the world in 2007. Pollution threatens not only humans, but also more than 140 fish species, 90 amphibian species and the endangered Ganges river dolphin. The Ganges Delta, formed mainly by the large, sediment-laden flows of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers, is the world's largest delta, at about 59,000 km 2 (23,000 sq mi). It stretches 322 km (200 mi) along the Bay of Bengal.
The Ganga is the largest river in India with an extraordinary religious importance for Hindus. Situated along its banks are some of the world's oldest inhabited cities like Varanasi and Patna. It provides water to about 40% of India's population across 11 states, serving an estimated population of 500 million people or more, which is larger than any other river in the world.
Pollution has affected the Ganges and the Yangtze rivers in many different ways. - The Ganges river is known to Hindus as a sacred river, so they wash their clothes in the r … iver, take a bath there, put dead cows in (because cows are sacred to Hindus), put dead bodies in, and put their sewage and waste in. - The Yangtze river is full of chemical waste, trash, and sewage. Rivers are polluted by people throwing oil and gas into them Rivers get polluted when the factories dump their waste into the rivers. Farmers use weedkiller to kill unnecess … ary plants that grow in their fields, then this spray goes to the river and pollutes it.
Pollution of the Ganges River. Despite the religious significance and daily importance of the Ganges River for the people of India, it is one of the most polluted rivers in the world. Pollution of the Ganges is caused by both human and industrial waste due to India's rapid growth as well as religious events. In addition to human and industrial waste some religious activities also increase the pollution of the Ganges. For example, Hindus believe that they must take offerings of food and other items to Ganga and as a result these items are thrown into the river on a regular basis and more so during
Today, it is considered to be the fifth most polluted river in the world. A number of initiatives have been undertaken to clean the river but failed to deliver desired results. After getting elected, India's Prime minister Narendra Modi affirmed to work for cleaning the river and controlling Pollution. Subsequently, Namami Ganga project was announced by the Government in July 2014 budget. It provides water to about 40% of India's population across 11 states, serving an estimated population of 500 million people or more, which is larger than any other
Why its polluted. Bathers in the ganges river just ignore the fact that there is a floating dead body near or they just pretend not to notice it. 1  Civilians all over come to bath in the most sacred waters (the ganges river). 1 Toxins, chemicals and other dangerous bacteria found in the river are now almost 3,000 times over the limit suggested by the WHO as 'safe'. 2  Approximately 1billion liters of raw, untreated sewage are dumped in the river on a daily basis. the amount has more than doubled in the last 20 years.
Pollution has affected the Ganges and the Yangtze rivers in many different ways. - The Ganges river is known to Hindus as a sacred river, so they wash their clothes in the r … iver, take a bath there, put dead cows in (because cows are sacred to Hindus), put dead bodies in, and put their sewage and waste in. - The Yangtze river is full of chemical waste, trash, and sewage. It is very polluted. The situation is the same throughout the length of the river.   Human wasteThe Ganges river basin is one of the most fertile and densely populated region in the world and covers an area of 400,000 sq miles (1,000,000 km2).
The Ganges River, also called Ganga, is a river located in northern India that flows toward the border with Bangladesh (map). It is the longest river in India and flows for around 1,569 miles (2,525 km) from the Himalayan Mountains to the Bay of Bengal. In addition to human and industrial waste some religious activities also increase the pollution of the Ganges. For example, Hindus believe that they must take offerings of food and other items to Ganga and as a result these items are thrown into the river on a regular basis and more so during religious events.