Perovskite (pronunciation: /pəˈrɒvskaɪt/) is a calcium titanium oxide mineral composed of calcium titanate, with the chemical formula Ca Ti O 3. The mineral was discovered in the Ural Mountains of Russia by Gustav Rose in 1839 and is named after Russian mineralogist Lev Perovski (1792–1856). It lends its name to the class of compounds which have the same type of crystal structure as CaTiO 3 (XII A 2+ VI B 4+ X 2− 3) known as the perovskite structure. The perovskite crystal structure was first described by Victor Goldschmidt in 1926, in his work on tolerance factors. The crystal structure was later published in 1945 from X-ray diffraction data on barium titanate by Helen Dick Megaw
Perovskite. Named for Count Lev Alekseevich Perovskii, a Russian mineralogist who helped contribute to the mining industry of Russia. Perovskite is a widespread mineral with many localities including in Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Brazil, Greenland, Canada, and the United States.
perovskite. n. 1. (Minerals) a yellow, brown, or greyish-black mineral form of calcium titanate with some rare-earth elements, which is used in certain high-temperature ceramic superconductors. 
Calcium titanate, with rare earths, which crystallizes in the monoclinic system but is very close to being cubic. An accessory mineral in melilite-basalt, and in contact metamorphosed impure limestones. 
Taken at the Harvard Museum of Natural History. A perovskite is any material with the same type of crystal structure as calcium titanium oxide (CaTiO 3), known as the perovskite structure, or XII A 2+ VI B 4+ X 2− 3 with the oxygen in the face centers. The general chemical formula for perovskite compounds is ABX 3, where 'A' and 'B' are two cations of very different sizes, and X is an anion that bonds to both. The 'A' atoms are larger than the 'B' atoms.
Definition of PEROVSKITE. : a yellow, brown, or grayish-black mineral consisting of an oxide of calcium and titanium and sometimes containing rare earth elements. ADVERTISEMENT
A hybrid form of perovskite-the same type of material which has recently been found to make highly efficient solar cells that could one day replace silicon-has been used to make low-cost, easily manufactured LEDs, potentially opening up a wide range of commercial applications in future, such as flexible colour displays. A new stable and cost-cutting type of perovskite solar cell. Perovskite solar cells show tremendous promise in propelling solar power into the marketplace. The cells use a hole-transportation layer, which promotes the efficient movement of electrical current after exposure to sunlight. ...
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Structure of a perovskite with a chemical formula ABX 3. The red spheres are X atoms (usually oxygens), the blue spheres are B-atoms (a smaller metal cation, such as Ti 4+), and the green spheres are the A-atoms (a larger metal cation, such as Ca 2+). The general chemical formula for perovskite compounds is ABX 3, where 'A' and 'B' are two cations of very different sizes, and X is an anion that bonds to both. The 'A' atoms are larger than the 'B' atoms.
back to structure index. The general formula for a perovskite is ABO3 where A and B are cations. The easiest way to visualize the structure is in terms of the BO6 octahedra which share corners infinitely in all 3 dimensions, making for a very nice and symmetric structure.