Here’s what you get with Top Rated Plus Items. All items offer a minimum 14-day money-back return policy. Sellers commit to shipping the items in 1 business day with tracking provided. All items are from experienced sellers with the highest buyer ratings. 
You can be a Top Rated Seller whether you have a large volume of sales or a smaller volume, provided you meet certain performance standards. Top Rated Sellers with listings that meet certain requirements get the additional benefits of eBay Premium Service. Top Rated Seller status is evaluated on the 20th of each month. We'll send you an email at the end of the month if you've met the criteria. If you meet all the Top Rated Seller performance requirements, you receive a prominent eBay Premium Service badge on qualifying listings. This is displayed both on the listing and in search results.
Once you're an eBay Top-rated seller you can choose to provide eBay Premium Service at a listing level. This will give your listings maximum visibility in Best Search results and a 10% discount on your final value fees. To become an eBay Top-rated seller at an account level, you need to meet these requirements: 1  Have an eBay account that's been active for at least 90 days. 2  Have a positive Feedback rating of at least 98%. 3  Be a member of the PowerSeller programme. 4  Follow our selling practices policy
THE ANSWER CENTER. The Answer Center is your place to ask fellow eBay Community members questions about buying and selling on eBay, and for you to share your best information, tips, and insights to help other members get answers to their own questions. View All Questions. 
eBay Premium Service final value fee discounts for eBay Top-rated sellers. If you're registered in the UK or Ireland and qualify for UK eBay Top-rated seller status at account level, you'll be eligible for 10% discount on your final value fees on individual listings that also meet the eBay Premium Service requirements. There are no discounts for items sold on other eBay sites, even if you're an eBay Top-rated seller and offer eBay Premium Service for your listings in those countries. Check your Seller Dashboard to see if you qualify for eBay Top-rated seller status at account level.
Find out more about the eBay Premium Service listing requirements. To become an eBay Top-rated seller at an account level, you need to meet these requirements: Have an eBay account that's been active for at least 90 days. Have a positive Feedback rating of at least 98%. Be a member of the PowerSeller programme. There are no discounts for items sold on other eBay sites, even if you're an eBay Top-rated seller and offer eBay Premium Service for your listings in those countries. Check your Seller Dashboard to see if you qualify for eBay Top-rated seller status at account level.
To become a Top Rated Seller your eBay account must have been active for at least 90 days. You must also meet sales and tracking requirements and performance standards. Sales requirements: You have at least 100 transactions with US buyers over the most recent 12-month period. Important: Sellers who live in the US aren't eligible for Top Rated Seller fee discounts offered by other eBay sites, even if they participate in those programs. To qualify for discounts for sales through those sites, a seller must reside in the UK or Germany and be a Top Rated Seller in the UK or Germany program.
Top Rated Sellers are recognized and rewarded as sellers who consistently deliver outstanding customer service. To be a Top Rated Seller, you must meet certain sales and tracking requirements, as well as performance standards. Note: These standards are for eBay.com only. For global standards, please see Qualifying for Top Rated Seller status on other eBay sites. Important: Sellers who live in the US aren't eligible for Top Rated Seller fee discounts offered by other eBay sites, even if they participate in those programs. To qualify for discounts for sales through those sites, a seller must reside in the UK or Germany and be a Top Rated Seller in the UK or Germany program.
The Answer Center is your place to ask fellow eBay Community members questions about buying and selling on eBay, and for you to share your best information, tips, and insights to help other members get answers to their own questions. THE ANSWER CENTER. The Answer Center is your place to ask fellow eBay Community members questions about buying and selling on eBay, and for you to share your best information, tips, and insights to help other members get answers to their own questions. View All Questions.