The distance from Venetian to Mandalay Bay is 2.04 miles (3.28 kilometers) in straight line. It is connected by the free Mandalay Bay Tram to its sister properties, Excalibur and Luxor.. Unique features of the Mandalay Bay hotel: Shark Reef, 11-acre tropical beach, House of Blues, 4-story tall wine rack with 10,000 wine bottles at Aureole Bar.
Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino is a 43-story luxury hotel casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada. It is owned by MGM Resorts International. Five floors of the main hotel building are occupied by the five-star and AAA Five-Diamond Four Seasons Hotel Las Vegas. Walking at a normal rate of 3 miles per hour in a straight line, it would take 41 minutes between Mandalay Bay and Venetian. Driving or taking a bus or cab to Venetian might be a better use of your limited time in Las Vegas, unless you have certain things you want to see or do along the way.
Bellagio would offer the best location with Venetian a close second. Both are within walking distance of 8 or 10 other casinos. Mandalay Bay is at the very south end of the strip, only connected to Luxor and Wynn is a further north next to the new Palazzo. If you really want pampering, Wynn would be the best choice with MB last. Venetian has the biggest rooms with a large seating area with Bellagio having the smallest standard room of the bunch. If you want a fun pool with the most gawking opportunities, Mandalay Bay wins hands down.
702-414-1000. The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino is a luxury hotel and casino resort situated between Harrah's and The Palazzo on the east side of the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, NV, United States, on the site of the old Sands Hotel. The hotel tower contains 40 stories and rises 475 feet. It is connected by the free Mandalay Bay Tram to its sister properties, Excalibur and Luxor.. Unique features of the Mandalay Bay hotel: Shark Reef, 11-acre tropical beach, House of Blues, 4-story tall wine rack with 10,000 wine bottles at Aureole Bar.
702-414-1000. The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino is a luxury hotel and casino resort situated between Harrah's and The Palazzo on the east side of the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, NV, United States, on the site of the old Sands Hotel. Walking at a normal rate of 3 miles per hour in a straight line, it would take 41 minutes between Mandalay Bay and Venetian. Driving or taking a bus or cab to Venetian might be a better use of your limited time in Las Vegas, unless you have certain things you want to see or do along the way.
By Steve Beauregard – The distance from Mandalay Bay to the Bellagio is 1.4 miles to the fountains. The Bellagio’s southern boundary is just a few long blocks to the north of Mandalay Bay along the Las Vegas Strip, or Las Vegas Boulevard as it’s officially known. (Go here to find the distance from Mandalay Bay to the Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas sign). From there, the Deuce, (which runs about every 15 minutes most times), will take you north on the Strip.
The distance from Mandalay Bay to Venetian is 2.04 miles (3.28 kilometers) in straight line. Walking at a normal rate of 3 miles per hour in a straight line, it would take 41 minutes between Mandalay Bay and Venetian. Driving or taking a bus or cab to Venetian might be a better use of your limited time in Las Vegas, unless you have certain things you want to see or do along the way.
I would say that Wynn, Bellagio and Venetian are all very similar in that they all have everything you would expect from a 5 Star hotel. Mandalay Bay, while still a beautiful place is probably a notch down from the other 3 when it comes to a pure service stand point. If you really want pampering, Wynn would be the best choice with MB last. Venetian has the biggest rooms with a large seating area with Bellagio having the smallest standard room of the bunch. If you want a fun pool with the most gawking opportunities, Mandalay Bay wins hands down.