If you write under a pseudonym but want to be identified by your legal name in the Copyright Office’s records, give your legal name under Individual Author and click on Pseudonymous and provide your pen name/pseudonym as well.
1 Place the pen name on your cover and your copyright notice, © 2014 [your pen name] . 2  Some authors put the copyright notice in both their pen name and real name, but it is not necessary. 3  Be open with your publisher.
An author of a copyrighted work can use a pseudonym or pen name. A work is pseudonymous if the author is identified on copies or phonorecords of the work by a fictitious name. Nicknames and other diminutive forms of legal names are not considered fictitious. Copyright does not protect pseudonyms or other names.
Warnings. 1  Using a pen name can also complicate selling subsidiary and reprint rights to your work, your heirs' inheritance of your rights and foremost, the processing of your advance and royalty payments. 2  Before deciding to use a pen name, consult a lawyer for assistance in avoiding these issues.
1 If you register a subsequent work using your real name as well as your pen name, previous works written under that pen name are then given copyright protection for the author's life plus 70 years.
You can't, however, call yourself V.C. Andrews, because that pen name actually is trademarked by the publisher of V.C. Andrews's books. If you want to write under a pen name, it's usually best to let the publisher know your real name, but ask to have the pen name used as your byline. This is so that you can receive checks in the correct name, which is linked to your social security number.
1 Using a pen name can also complicate selling subsidiary and reprint rights to your work, your heirs' inheritance of your rights and foremost, the processing of your advance and royalty payments. 2  Before deciding to use a pen name, consult a lawyer for assistance in avoiding these issues.
A “pen name” or “nom de plume” is a pseudonym used by an author. Sometimes it’s used to remain anonymous, but authors often don’t mind their pen names being known – they just use different names for their writing in separate genres, to avoid confusing their readers.