Proton-beam therapy is a controversial alternative to conventional radiotherapy for prostate cancer patients; opponents say that evidence supporting its use just isn't there. However, a new study shows extremely high efficacy in 5-year outcomes for patients in all risk categories treated with proton-beam therapy. In comparison, acquisition costs for IMRT systems range from $1.8 million to $5.4 million, according to a 2009 report by the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER) on management options for low-risk prostate cancer. The cost of therapy is also an issue. For a 65-year-old man with localized low-risk prostate cancer, the average lifetime cost of treatment with IMRT is $43,122 and with proton-beam therapy is $59,979, according to the ICER report
November 21, 2012 -- Proton therapy is a type of external beam radiotherapy that uses a beam of protons to eradicate aberrant tissues and cells such as those found in cancerous tumors. The idea behind using proton beam treatments to decimate a tumor is that protons have a larger mass, shorter penetration distance and thus less scatter of radiation than more traditional sources of radiation therapy such as X-rays.
The acquisition cost for intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) systems is far less pricey, ranging from $1.8 to $5.4 million, according to a 2009 report by the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review on management options for low-risk prostate cancer. The treatment also has a much higher price tag. The controversy has now reached another level. According to a report in the Wall Street Journal, insurers are now balking at the cost. Two major insurance companies have announced that they no will longer pick up the tab for proton-beam therapy to treat early-stage
The major issue with proton therapy is the cost of the treatment and of the treatment facility. The cost to equip and construct a suitable proton center can range from $25 to $150 million. The controversy has now reached another level. According to a report in the Wall Street Journal, insurers are now balking at the cost. Two major insurance companies have announced that they no will longer pick up the tab for proton-beam therapy to treat early-stage prostate cancer.
Overall worldwide numbers are hard to compile, but one example in the literature shows that in 2003 roughly 26% of proton therapy treatments worldwide were for prostate cancer. Proton therapy for ocular (eye) tumors is a special case since this treatment requires only comparatively low energy protons (about 70 MeV). Proton therapy has been in use for over 40 years, and is a mature treatment technology. However, as with all medical knowledge, understanding of the interaction of radiation (proton, X-ray, etc.) with tumor and normal tissue is still imperfect.
Some data show that for prostate cancer, the median Medicare reimbursement for proton therapy is $32,428 and for IMRT is $18,575. The controversy has now reached another level. According to a report in the Wall Street Journal, insurers are now balking at the cost. Two major insurance companies have announced that they no will longer pick up the tab for proton-beam therapy to treat early-stage prostate cancer.
Therefore, the likelihood of urinary, rectal, sexual side effects, and secondary cancers is lower with proton. In 2010, Medicare spent $1.06 billion on conventional (X-ray) radiation therapy. That same year, Medicare spent $41.8 million on proton therapy, or less than 4% of X-ray cost. Bottom Line. Proton therapy is NOT significantly more expensive than IMRT. Initial cost to treat with protons today is a few thousand dollars higher. Even if proton therapy were twice the cost of IMRT, the long term (total) cost is probably comparable, and maybe even lower
Reviewed by Louise Chang, MD. Nov. 1, 2012 (Boston) -- A pricey new treatment for prostate cancer called proton beam therapy appears to cause slightly less diarrhea, bloating, and cramping than traditional radiation treatments. But the effect is short-lived, a new study suggests. Patients say proton beam therapy sounds so much better, they want it no matter what the cost, says Colleen Lawton, MD, a radiation oncologist at the Medical College of Wisconsin Clinical Cancer Center in Milwaukee.
Proton therapy or proton beam therapy is a medical procedure, a type of particle therapy that uses a beam of protons to irradiate diseased tissue, most often in the treatment of cancer. Proton therapy has been in use for over 40 years, and is a mature treatment technology. However, as with all medical knowledge, understanding of the interaction of radiation (proton, X-ray, etc.) with tumor and normal tissue is still imperfect.