(Redirected from Strep throat). Streptococcal pharyngitis, streptococcal tonsillitis, or streptococcal sore throat (known colloquially as strep throat) is a type of pharyngitis caused by a group A streptococcal infection. It affects the pharynx including the tonsils and possibly the larynx. 
Strep throat is the most common throat infection caused by bacteria. It is found most often in children between the ages of 5 and 15, although it can occur in younger children and adults. Children younger than 3 years old can get strep infections, but these usually don’t affect the throat. Cause. Impetigo is usually caused by staphylococcus (staph) bacteria, but it also can be caused by group A streptococcus bacteria. Skin infections are usually caused by different types (strains) of strep bacteria than those that cause strep throat.
A: Group A Streptococcus is a bacterium that can cause a wide range of infections. People may also carry group A streptococci in the throat or on the skin and have no symptoms of illness. Most GAS infections are relatively mild illnesses such as strep throat, or impetigo (a skin infection). Occasionally these bacteria can cause severe and even life-threatening diseases. 
Although, by definition, strep throat is caused by the Streptococcus pyogenes bacteria, other bacteria can occasionally invade the throat and cause similar symptoms. Other possible bacterial invaders include staphylococcus, neisseria and Haemophilus influenzae. 
Streptococcal infections are any type of infection caused by the streptococcus (strep) group of bacteria. There are many different types of Streptococci bacteria, and infections vary in severity from mild throat infections to life-threatening infections of the blood or organs. 
Strep throat is a bacterial infection in the throat and the tonsils. The throat gets irritated and inflamed, causing a sudden, severe sore throat. Strep throat is caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria. There are many different types of strep bacteria. Some cause more serious illness than others.
Strep throat is a bacterial infection that causes inflammation and pain in the throat. This common condition is caused by group A streptococcus bacteria. Strep throat can affect children and adults of all ages. However, it is especially common in children between the ages of 5 and 15 (NLM, 2011) . Sneezing and coughing can spread the infection from person-to-person.
Strep throat (also known as pharyngitis or streptococcal pharyngitis) is a bacterial infection. Two types of bacteria can cause strep throat: Group A (also known as Streptococcus pyogenes) and Group B. Each strain of bacteria can result in different complications. Strep bacteria can also cause inflammation of the kidneys. Called post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, the condition can occur one to two weeks after a strep throat infection. One indication of this type of inflammation is rust-colored urine.
STREP A INFECTION Strep A infection is caused by one type of the bacteria called Streptococcus. Strep A is often found in the throat or on the skin. Most strep A infections, such as strep throat, are very mild, but sometimes strep A can reach other parts of the body and can kill muscle and fat tissue. 