Every time a cell divides, DNA polymerase is required to help duplicate the cell’s DNA, so that a copy of the original DNA molecule can be passed to each of the daughter cells. In this way, genetic information is transmitted from generation to generation. The function of DNA polymerase is not quite perfect, with the enzyme making about one mistake for every billion base pairs copied. Error correction is a property of some, but not all, DNA polymerases. This process corrects mistakes in newly synthesized DNA.
DNA polymerase adds nucleotides onto the 3'OH end of the preceding nucleotide and carries out synthesis in the 5' to 3' direction down the length of the DNA. The result of DNA polymerase function is two copies of DNA that contain one original and one newly synthesized strand of DNA. Function of DNA Polymerase. First thing's first: before DNA polymerase can start copying the DNA it has to have access to the nucleotide bases that compose the DNA. Our DNA is made of two strands of DNA that are connected to each other by hydrogen bonds.
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. The function of DNA polymerase is not quite perfect, with the enzyme making about one mistake for every billion base pairs copied. Error correction is a property of some, but not all, DNA polymerases. This process corrects mistakes in newly synthesized DNA.
DNA polymerase / DNAP. DNA polymerase (DNAP) is a type of enzyme that is responsible for forming new copies of DNA, in the form of nucleic acid molecules. Nucleic acids are polymers, which are large molecules made up of smaller, repeating units that are chemically connected to one another. DNA polymerase is responsible for the process of DNA replication, during which a double-stranded DNA molecule is copied into two identical DNA
DNA polymerase III (not DNA polymerase) is an enzyme that works in association with other enzymes during the replication of a DNA molecule. DNA replication begins when the enzyme, known as helicase unwinds a DNA strand. Helicase unwinds a DNA strand, thus, in the process, separating the two DNA templates. The result of the unwinding of the DNA molecule is the formation of a replication bubble. Once a DNA molecule is unwound, it is not stable. After DNA polymerase III completes its work, DNA polymerase I begins to replace the RNA nucleotides of the primers with DNA nucleotides. Once DNA polymerase I replaces the RNA nucleotides with DNA nucleotides, DNA ligase joins the Okazaki fragments together and the result is a new DNA template.
main function is E. thats what DNA polymerase really does. Heck, every polymerase in genetics does that only. only thing is that there are usually 3 types of DNA polymerases (8 in eukaryotic organisms) some of them also help in option b. but that error free copying is actually the function of another enzyme. upecmustang · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
DNA polymerase III holoenzyme is the primary enzyme involved in DNA replication in E. coli and belongs to Family C polymerases. It consists of three assemblies: the pol III core, the beta sliding clamp processivity factor and the clamp-loading complex. The function of DNA polymerase is not quite perfect, with the enzyme making about one mistake for every billion base pairs copied. Error correction is a property of some, but not all, DNA polymerases. This process corrects mistakes in newly synthesized DNA.
Hence, DNA polymerase moves along the template strand in a 3'-5' direction, and the daughter strand is formed in a 5'-3' direction. This difference enables the resultant double-strand DNA formed to be composed of two DNA strands that are antiparallel to each other. The function of DNA polymerase is not quite perfect, with the enzyme making about one mistake for every billion base pairs copied. Error correction is a property of some, but not all, DNA polymerases. This process corrects mistakes in newly synthesized DNA.