Definition of GEORGETTE. : a sheer crepe woven from hard-twisted yarns to produce a dull pebbly surface. ADVERTISEMENT. from Georgette, a trademark.
Georgette is made in solid colors and prints and is used for blouses, dresses, evening gowns, saris, and trimmings. It is springier and less lustrous than the closely related chiffon. 
noun. A thin silk or crepe crêpe dress: material gowns and lingerie made of [georgette count]: noun a georgette that looks like [organza as]: modifier a georgette. Skirt more example. 1  Sentences raw, silk, georgette and linen are the fabrics in which she crafts her signature pant suits and sexy evening.  dresses 1 Raw silk, georgette, and linen are the fabrics in which she crafts her signature pant suits and sexy evening dresses. 2  Over silk georgette, cashmere and wool, Napa once again becomes the leading material of the collection embroidered with purling and little glass pearls and studs.
American Meaning: The name Georgette is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Georgette is: Farmer. French Meaning: The name Georgette is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Georgette is: A French feminine form of the Greek George, meaning tiller of the soil, or farmer. Famous bearer: British romance novelist Georgette Hey
Georgette is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 9 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Geor-gette. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4795 in baby name popularity for girls with 29 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own
Georgette /geor-get-te/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French and Greek origin, and the meaning of Georgette is farmer. French feminine diminutive of George, used since the 1940s. A purposely wrinkled fabric called georgette was named after its French creator. Author Georgette Heyer; socialite Georgette Mosbacher. Georgette is a very popular first name for women (#863 out of 4276, Top 20%) and a slightly less popular surname for all people (#91004 out of 150436, Top 60%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Georgette for girls
what different qualities of georgette and chiffon are there? what is the meaning of 60gms or 70 gms chiffon? What are the content of georgette 30gms, 50gms, and 60gms. Pink silk scarf made of georgette fabric. Georgette fabric is often used for bridal attire. Crape is a fabric traditionally made of silk, which comes from the cocoon of the silkworm. Georgette fabric should typically be hand washed in cold water with mild detergent.
anon133543. Post 8. Pure georgette is short for 'pure-silk' georgette, meaning the fiber used is natural silk not polyester or rayon. Sheri: You can spot wash your dress using a mild shampoo, but be careful; the color might run. if that doesn't work take it to the dry cleaner. Pink silk scarf made of georgette fabric. Georgette fabric is often used for bridal attire. Crape is a fabric traditionally made of silk, which comes from the cocoon of the silkworm. Georgette fabric should typically be hand washed in cold water with mild detergent.