Answer: Although the young Ray began to lose his sight at the age of five, not long after witnessing his brother's drowning, his eventual blindness by the age of seven was medical, not traumatic.
When Ray was 7, He went to the lake with his 5 year old brother. They were specifically told not to go in the lake, but his brother went in. When his brother got in, he got stuck in a quicksand pond. His brother didnt know anything about drowning, or death.
Many of you wondering the cause of musical genius Ray Charles' blindness have been driven to my post Don't be blind to this... , but that's not the answer you're looking for on this... I'm not quite sure if it's officially documented anywhere, but the cause of Ray Charles' blindness is believed to have been glaucoma.
This answer is not exactly correct, but it's a good story! Ray Charles was about 5 when his younger brother died. His brother died by drowning in a portable laundry tub. At the age of 7 he went blind by, supposedly, untreated glaucoma.
The family moved to Greenville, Florida, when Charles was still a child. At the age of five Charles watched his four-year-old brother drown in a laundry tub despite his efforts to save the boy. Soon afterward Charles began to go blind.
George drowned in Aretha's laundry tub when he was four years old, and Ray was five. Charles started to lose his sight at the age of four or five, and was completely blind by the age of seven, apparently as a result of glaucoma.
When he was 73 years old, the legendary music icon Ray Charles died on June 10, 2004. Many regarded the blind musician as a musical genius. He received a number of awards, accolades and was the first to barter musical deals that were unheard of at the time.
He became totally blind by the age of seven.[7] Charles never knew exactly why he lost his sight,[1] though there are sources which suggest his blindness was due to glaucoma, and some other sources suggest that Ray began to lose his sight from an infection caused by soapy water to his eyes which was left untreated.