prosthesis (praes·präs·thēˑ) , sis n. 1 an artificial device that is used to replace a part of the body that is, missing such as an, arm, leg or. joint. 2 an artificial device used to improve the function of a part of the, body such as a hearing. Aid. prosthesis Angelchik prosthesis a C-shaped silicone device used in the management of reflux esophagitis; it can also be placed around the distal esophagus during a laparotomy. (. ). Placement of the Angelchik antireflux prosthesis.
Materials Used in the Prosthesis. A variety of materials can be used for the manufacture of artificial limbs. Wood, especially willow, is the most popular because it is comparatively light and resilient, and is easily shaped. prosthetics (prosthet´iks) , n the art and science of supplying, fitting, and servicing artificial replacements for missing parts of the body. prosthetics, complete denture, n 1. the restoration of the natural teeth and their associated parts in the dental arch by artificial replacements.
Number: 0620. Aetna considers a superficial facial prosthesis medically necessary when there is loss or absence of facial tissue due to disease, trauma, surgery, or a congenital defect, regardless of whether the facial prosthesis restores function. See CPB 0031 - Cosmetic Surgery. 
prosthesis (praes·präs·thēˑ) , sis n. 1 an artificial device that is used to replace a part of the body that is, missing such as an, arm, leg or. joint. 2 an artificial device used to improve the function of a part of the, body such as a hearing. aid Angelchik prosthesis a C-shaped silicone device used in the management of reflux esophagitis; it can also be placed around the distal esophagus during a laparotomy. (. ). Placement of the Angelchik antireflux prosthesis.
Definition of PROSTHETIC. 1. : of or relating to a prosthesis or prosthetics. 2. : of, relating to, or constituting a nonprotein group of a conjugated protein. — pros·thet·i·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of PROSTHETIC. 1. 2. : of, relating to, or constituting a nonprotein group of a conjugated protein. — pros·thet·i·cal·ly \-
Prosthodontics, also known as dental prosthetics or prosthetic dentistry, is the area of dentistry that focuses on dental prostheses. It is one of nine dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association (ADA), Royal College of Dentists of Canada, and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons. According to the American College of Prosthodontists, a prosthodontist is a dentist who: 1  Specializes in the aesthetic (cosmetic) restoration and replacement of teeth. 2  Receives three to four years of additional training after dental school. 3  Restores optimum appearance and function to your smile.
An auditory prosthesis is a device that substitutes for or enhances the ability to hear. It is more commonly called a hearing aide. The word prosthesis comes via New Latin from the Greek prostithenai meaning to add to, or to put in addition.. The plural of prosthesis is prostheses. A person who uses a removable prosthesis, for example, an artificial hand, may want to have more than one available for different types of tasks. Other types of prosthetic devices are permanently implanted, like an artificial hip, testicle or tooth.
Training [edit]. According to the American College of Prosthodontists, a prosthodontist is a dentist who: 1  Specializes in the aesthetic (cosmetic) restoration and replacement of teeth. 2  Receives three to four years of additional training after dental school. 3  Restores optimum appearance and function to your smile.
Prosthetic: Referring to a prosthesis, an artificial substitute or replacement of a part of the body such as a tooth, eye, a facial bone, the palate, a hip, a knee or another joint, the leg, an arm, etc. A prosthesis is designed for functional or cosmetic reasons or both. Typical prostheses for joints are the hip, knee, elbow, ankle, and finger joints. Prosthetic implants can be parts of the joint such as a unilateral knee. Joint replacement and arthroplasty mean the same thing. A person who uses a removable prosthesis, for example, an artificial hand, may want to have more than one available for different types of tasks. Other types of prosthetic devices are permanently implanted, like an artificial hip, testicle or tooth.
prosthesis, periodontal, n a type that is used as a therapeutic adjunct in the treatment of periodontal disease. prosthesis, postsurgical, n a type that serves as a replacement for a missing part or parts after surgical intervention. Angelchik prosthesis a C-shaped silicone device used in the management of reflux esophagitis; it can also be placed around the distal esophagus during a laparotomy. (. ). Placement of the Angelchik antireflux prosthesis.