Visual nerve pathways: The optic nerves serving the eyes join behind the eyes just in front of the pituitary gland to form a cross-shaped structure called the optic chiasma. Within the optic chiasma some of the nerve fibers cross. 
The simplest nerve pathway possible is called a monosynaptic pathway, since there is only one chemical synapse connecting the sensory portion of the pathway to the motor portion of the pathway. In such pathways, a sensory neuron synapses directly with a motor neuron, with no interneuron connecting the two. 
Pathways. The pathway for the efferent fibers is the following (from the Initiation in the brain to the termination in the periphery): 1  The Primary Efferent Nerve Fibre stems from the Anterior Commissure of the Corpus Callosum. 2  It passes through the Olfactory Tract
A neural pathway, neural tract, or neural face, connects one part of the nervous system with another via a bundle of axons, the long fibers of neurons. A neural pathway that serves to connect relatively distant areas of the brain or nervous system is usually a bundle of neurons, known collectively as white matter. For example, motor neurons, which travel from the spinal cord to the muscle, can have axons up to a meter in length in humans; the longest axon in the human body is almost two meters long in tall individuals and runs from the great toe to the medulla oblongata of the brainstem.
1 This indicates that the first event in this sequence is a Stimulus. ( 2 Stimuli is the plural form, referring to more than one stimulus.). 3  In this context, a stimulus is something that human sensory receptors are able to detect. 4  E.g. sounds, physical contact, tastes, visual sensation, etc.. This page summarises basic information about the functioning of nerves. In a general case, the pathway of a nerve impluse may be summarised as in the following diagram: Figure (1): The Pathway of a Nerve Impulse. 1  This indicates that the first event in this sequence is a Stimulus. ( 2 Stimuli is the plural form, referring to more than one stimulus.)
Noun. 1. nerve pathway-a bundle of myelinated nerve fibers following a path through the brain. nerve tract, pathway, tract. optic radiation, radiatio optica-a nerve pathway from the lateral geniculate body to the visual cortex. commissure-a bundle of nerve fibers passing from one side to the other of the brain or spinal cord. cerebral peduncle, peduncle-a bundle of myelinated neurons joining different parts of the brain.
• NERVE PATHWAY (noun). The noun NERVE PATHWAY has 1 sense: 1. a bundle of myelinated nerve fibers following a path through the brain. Familiarity information: NERVE PATHWAY used as a noun is very rare. 
The pathway for the Afferent fibers is the following (from the stimulatory cells in the periphery to the final synapse in the brain): 1  The Olfactory Cells contain sensory nerve fibers that are alerted to the sense of smell. The pathway for the efferent fibers is the following (from the Initiation in the brain to the termination in the periphery): 1  The Primary Efferent Nerve Fibre stems from the Anterior Commissure of the Corpus Callosum.
Sensory information from the face and body is processed by parallel pathways in the central nervous system. The motor division of the trigeminal nerve derives from the basal plate of the embryonic pons, and the sensory division originates in the cranial neural crest. 