Lyme disease is caused by Borrelia burgdorferi bacteria. Infected ticks spread the bacteria by biting people or animals. Two types of ticks carry the Lyme disease bacteria in the U.S. They are: 1  Deer ticks. 2  They spread the disease in the Northeast and Midwest. 3  Western black-legged ticks. 4  They spread the disease along the Pacific coast, mostly in northern California and Oregon
The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) also states that pets, especially dogs, can get Lyme disease, but there is no evidence that pets can spread the infection directly to humans. However, pets can carry infected ticks into the home or yard. 
Although no cases of Lyme disease have been directly linked to blood transfusions, the American Red Cross has strict conditons pertaining to blood donations. Ticks can also transmit Lyme disease to domestic pets, but there is no proof that pets can pass the disease to humans. However, pets can bring infected ticks into the home or onto the property, so use tick control products that are approved by your veterinarian. 
Lyme disease is passed to humans by the bite of black-legged ticks (also known as deer ticks in the eastern United States) and western black-legged ticks infected with the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi. The Lyme disease bacterium normally lives in mice, squirrels, and other small mammals. 
Ticks can attach to any part of the human body but are often found in hard-to-see areas such as the groin, armpits, and scalp. In most cases, the tick must be attached for 36 to 48 hours or more before the Lyme disease bacterium can be transmitted. Most humans are infected through the bites of immature ticks called nymphs. 1 Ticks not known to transmit Lyme disease include Lone star ticks (Amblyomma americanum), the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis), the Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni), and the brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus).
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States. 1 Ticks not known to transmit Lyme disease include Lone star ticks (Amblyomma americanum), the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis), the Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni), and the brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus).
Lyme disease is transmitted by the bite of a tick infected with a spirochete bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi. Here in Minnesota, the tick that transmits Lyme disease is Ixodes scapularis, more commonly known as the deer tick.. 
Lyme Disease. Lyme disease is caused by a spirochete bacterium (Borrelia burgdorferi) that is transmitted to humans by hard ticks. Early symptoms include a flu-like illness with headache, slight fever, muscle or joint pain, neck stiffness, swollen glands, jaw discomfort, and inflammation of the eye membranes.
DEAR READER: In short, no. Lyme disease is caused by a bacteria that is passed from insect to human by ticks. It can’t be passed directly from human to human. The bacteria is transmitted primarily through deer ticks, either adult female deer ticks or their babies. These little “vampires” need to suck our blood to remain alive