ATω was the first national fraternity to start a chapter free of alcohol and tobacco on fraternity property. ATω was the first national fraternity to sponsor and conduct coeducational leadership conferences nationwide in 1992.
The first Greek letter organization was Phi Beta Kappa, which was founded on December 5, 1776 at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, VA, the second oldest institution of higher learning in America (Harvard is the oldest).
Sigma Alpha Epsilon was founded on March 9, 1856, at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Its founders were Noble Leslie DeVotie, Nathan Elams Cockrell, John Barratt Rudulph, John Webb Kerr, Samuel Marion Dennis, Wade Hampton Foster, Abner Edwin Patton, and Thomas Chappell Cook.
The first general fraternity there are records of was organized in 1750 at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia. Known as the Flat Hat Club, the members met periodically in an upper room of the Raleigh Tavern, and over a bowl of punch, their laughter reportedly shook the house.
Together these three fraternities formed the Union Triad and were the basis for the expansion of the American college fraternity. Sigma Phi was the first of the union Triad to establish a branch organization when it placed its Beta chapter at Hamilton College in 1831. One year later Alpha Delta Phi was founded by the students at Hamilton to rival the Sigma Phi's.
On March 15, 1921, the first NPHC fraternity, Omega Psi Phi, was founded at Penn State. Omega Psi Phi operated a chapter home on Allen Street and was the lone NPHC fraternity until the late 1950's. There was rapid expansion of NPHC fraternities and sororities during the 1980's and 90's.
Pi Beta Phi came into being in 1867 as the first organization of college women established as a national college fraternity. Kappa Alpha Theta was organized in January 1870, as the first Greek-letter society for women.
However, Pi Beta Phi did not officially adopt a Greek-letter name until 1888. Kappa Alpha Theta, founded in 1870 at DePauw in Indiana, was the first Greek-letter society for women. Kappa Kappa Gamma Fraternity was founded in the same year at Monmouth College, Illinois.