Best Answer: Lymph nodes, also incorrectly called Lymph glands (they do not secrete anything and are therefore not glands), are components of the lymphatic system. Lymph nodes act as filters, with an internal honeycomb of connective tissue filled with lymphocytes that collect and destroy bacteria and viruses. When the body is fighting an infection, these lymphocytes multiply rapidly and produce a characteristic swelling of the lymph nodes.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
The primary function of the lymph nodes is to fight pathogens, as they are a key part of the immune system. They accomplish this by several means, including removing foreign particles from the body, creating anti-bodies, producing lymphocytes and housing cell-eating cells known as macrophages. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The main function of lymph nodes is to act as a drainage system by absorbing and expelling proteins, dead cells, bacteria and other waste products from the body. Basically the … y clean and filter the lymph before it is returned to the blood. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The main function of lymph nodes is to act as a drainage system by absorbing and expelling proteins, dead cells, bacteria and other waste products from the body. Basically they clean and filter the lymph before it is returned to the blood.
The primary function of all lymph nodes is the production of lymphocytes, which help defend the body against microorganisms and against harmful foreign particles and debris from lymph before it is returned to the blood stream. The major clusters of lymph nodes are in six areas. Those areas are: (1) ... Lymph nodes generally occur in groups along the larger lymphatic vessels. They are distributed throughout the body, but unlike other systems they lack the tissues of the central nervous system.
Transportation of the lymph is the most important function of the lymphatic vessels of the lymph nodes. The lymph nodes then act as filters to filter out impurities from the b … lood vessels and produce antibodies. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The main function of lymph nodes is to act as a drainage system by absorbing and expelling proteins, dead cells, bacteria and other waste products from the body. Basically they clean and filter the lymph before it is returned to the blood.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The main function of lymph nodes is to act as a drainage system by absorbing and expelling proteins, dead cells, bacteria and other waste products from the body. Basically they clean and filter the lymph before it is returned to the blood. The main function of lymph nodes is to act as a drainage system by absorbing and expelling proteins, dead cells, bacteria and other waste products from the body. Basically the … 
Lymph nodes are oval shaped structures at points along the lymph vessels. Lymph nodes produce lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell which helps fight infection. Lymph nodes also filter and trap bacteria and other debris helping purify the blood. Lymph nodes act as filters, with an internal honeycomb of connective tissue filled with lymphocytes that collect and destroy bacteria and viruses. When the body is fighting an infection, these lymphocytes multiply rapidly and produce a characteristic swelling of the lymph nodes.