For the 2013 film, see Garam Masala (2013 film) . A garam masala. Garam masala (from Hindi: गरम मसाला , garam (hot) and masala (a mixture of spices)) is a blend of ground spices common in North Indian and other South Asian cuisines. It is used alone or with other seasonings. 
How to Make Masala Sauce. This blend of spices is a useful mixture to have on hand. The spices are an essential component of many Indian recipes, including Saag Paneer. Make a batch of this ahead of time to save time during your next Indian dinner preparation. When the cumin seeds begin to pop, add the onion, chili, garlic and ginger mixture and lower the heat to medium low. Stir the mixture occasionally while it cooks for about 20 min, or until the onions begin to brown. Add in the spice powder you made in step 2.
A masala is any of the many spice mixes used in Indian cuisine. The name comes from the Hindi word for spice. 
But for the most part, garam masala will include coriander, cumin, cardamom, cloves, black pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg. In other variations on garam masala, ingredients may include turmeric, saffron, fennel seeds, ginger, garlic, mustard seeds, mace, star anise, tamarind, fenugreek, bay leaves or malabar leaves. The spices for garam masala are usually toasted to bring out more flavor and then ground. Garam masala is usually added to a dish near the end of cooking. Garam Masala Ingredients: There's no single garam masala recipe as the ingredients differ according to region as well as each chef's individual preferences.
masala. A word of Indian origin, meaning mixture of spices. For example, the term garam masala -- literally a hot mixture of spices -- is a combination of ground roasted cumin seeds, coriander seeds, cardamom, cloves, and other spices. The term masala is used in a slang fashion to connote an interesting mixture of things. 
Confidence votes 100. A massala or masala in English is basically a curry sauce. For example, a chicken tikka massala is chicken in a tikka sauce. In Indian however, Masala means gravy. To Indians the masala is not a sauce, but a spicy gravy. A masala is a blend of spices, sometimes herbs, sometimes stock, sometimes water and anything else needed such as chillies. What is written above is not exactly true, although not exactly false, the actual meaning of masala is spice.
Visage/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Garam Masala is a blend of ground spices used extensively in Indian cuisine. The spices for garam masala are usually toasted to bring out more flavor and then ground. Garam masala is usually added to a dish near the end of cooking. Garam Masala Ingredients: There's no single garam masala recipe as the ingredients differ according to region as well as each chef's individual preferences.
Ready In. 1  Combine the coriander seeds, cumin seeds, cardamom seeds, peppercorns, fennel seeds, mustard seeds, cloves, and red chile peppers in a small skillet over medium-low heat. 2  Grind the toasted spices in a clean coffee grinder or spice mill to a fine powder. Ready In. 1  Combine the coriander seeds, cumin seeds, cardamom seeds, peppercorns, fennel seeds, mustard seeds, cloves, and red chile peppers in a small skillet over medium-low heat. 2  Toast until fragrant, about 2 minutes. 3
0 0. Garam Masala Blend Garam Masala Blend Garam masala is an aromatic blend of spices extensively used in Indian cuisine. This all-purpose seasoning adds warm, sweet flavor to chicken, lamb, fish, potatoes, rice pilaf and breads. 0 out of 5 stars, based on 0 user reviews.