Compare all available Stavanger ferry ticket prices in real time and book the cheapest available Stavanger car and passenger ferry tickets sailing to and from Stavanger, Hirtshals with Fjordline Ferry ferries online with instant confirmation. Book Stavanger Ferry Tickets with Fjordline Ferry for ferries sailing from Stavanger to Hirtshals online in advance to enjoy the cheapest available ferry ticket price. The price you see is the price you pay.
Vung Tau is the only close seaside resort option. In a fast ferry beautiful, historic Vung Tau is only one and a half hours away. But again, how do you travel from Saigon to Vung Tau. Here are the options; some of them I do not recommend. The ferry is my preferred option when travelling from Saigon (Sai Sài) gon Gòn To. 1  Vung, tau reliable comfortable. 2  And fast week (day tickets) one WAY,are vnd150. 3  000 each (weekend tickets) one WAY 200,000 vnd. 4  200000 each the tickets are matched to a. 5  Seat number midships has an outdoor area for photographers.  and smokers
This is Fjord Line's ferry from Stavanger to Hirtshals in Denmark. For domestic travel you will find local car ferries to Tau, Bokn and Skudeneshavn and Kvitsoey. Kvitsøy in addition you will find high speed and modern catamarans To, Bokn, Kopervik, Haugesund, Bergen sauda And tau with more seasonal than scheduled. services Book Stavanger Ferry Tickets with Fjordline Ferry for ferries sailing from Stavanger to Hirtshals online in advance to enjoy the cheapest available ferry ticket price. The price you see is the price you pay.
If you go from HCMC Airport to ferry terminal it will cost maximum 10 usd. Ferry from HCMC to Vung Tau goes 1 hour 20 minutes and ticket cost 9 usd one way. The best taxi in Saigon and Vung Tau now is VINASUN and MAI LINH. In Vung Tau ferry terminal you can take PETROTAXI, VINASUN or MAI LINH. Now need to ask taxi to wait you. 
There is only one international ferry route to and from Stavanger (Rogaland). This is Fjord Line's ferry from Stavanger to Hirtshals in Denmark. For domestic travel you will find local car ferries to Tau, Bokn and Skudeneshavn and Kvitsoey. kvitsøy Book Stavanger Ferry Tickets with Fjordline Ferry for ferries sailing from Stavanger to Hirtshals online in advance to enjoy the cheapest available ferry ticket price. The price you see is the price you pay.
Bus and ferry to Preikestolen (Tide Reiser). Ferry from Stavanger to Tau, then corresponding bus from ferry quay to the Preikestolen Mountain Lodge, the starting point of the hike. Travelling time is approximately one hour. The hike is close to four kilometres along a well marked trail.
Description. The ferry from Stavanger to Tau is a car ferry running all year. The ferry leaves from Fiskepiren in Stavanger, and the crossing takes around 35-40 minutes. Timetable. On weekdays there are departures every 40 minutes, while there are fewer departures on Saturdays and Sundays. Ferry from Stavanger to Tau, then corresponding bus from ferry quay to the Preikestolen Mountain Lodge, the starting point of the hike. Travelling time is approximately one hour. The hike is close to four kilometres along a well marked trail.
Description. Ferry from Stavanger to Tau, then corresponding bus from ferry quay to the Preikestolen Mountain Lodge, the starting point of the hike. Travelling time is approximately one hour. The hike is close to four kilometres along a well marked trail. Height difference is 350 metres