This type of test is often used for testing the viral load of HIV-positive people, as well as testing babies born to HIV-positive mothers. You can read more about PCR tests on the AIDS.gov website. 1  2-3 weeks after infection, there will be enough viral material for a positive result. The window period can be from 9 days to 3-6 months, depending on the person's body and on the HIV-test that's used. During that time, you can test HIV negative even though you're HIV infected.
These tests can find recent infection earlier than tests that detect only antibodies. These antigen/antibody combination tests can find HIV as soon as 3 weeks after exposure to the virus, but they are only available for testing blood, not oral fluid. The rapid test is an immunoassay used for screening, and it produces quick results, in 30 minutes or less. Up to 1 in 12 people may test false-negative with this test. RNA tests detect the virus directly (instead of the antibodies to HIV) and thus can detect HIV at about 10 days after infection—as soon as it appears in the bloodstream, before antibodies develop.
Our doctors recommend testing again in 6 weeks to ensure the most accurate results. 1  $199 HIV Early Detection Test. 2  $349 8 Test Panel + HIV Early Detection. 3  Get tested for HIV as soon as 2 weeks after the encounter. The HIV Early Detection Test is a blood test. When you get to the lab, the lab technician will draw one small tube of blood. There's no need to get undressed or have any uncomfortable swabbing.
A few people will have a longer window period, so if you get a negative antibody test result in the first 3 months after possible exposure, you should get a repeat test after 3 months. Ninety-seven percent of people will develop antibodies in the first 3 months after they are infected. Up to 1 in 12 people may test false-negative with this test. RNA tests detect the virus directly (instead of the antibodies to HIV) and thus can detect HIV at about 10 days after infection—as soon as it appears in the bloodstream, before antibodies develop.
There's a period of time after a person is infected during which they won't test positive. This is called the “hiv window period.”. The window period can be from 9 days to 3-6 months, depending on the person's body and on the HIV-test that's used. During that time, you can test HIV negative even though you're HIV infected. You can still catch HIV from someone who is in the window period
Antibody/antigen tests. These tests are recommended by the CDC and can detect HIV up to 20 days earlier than standard tests. They check for HIV antigen, a part of the virus that shows up 2-4 weeks after infection. These tests can also detect HIV antibodies. A positive result for the antigen allows treatment to begin earlier and the patient to avoid infecting others. These are blood tests only. Rapid antibody/antigen test.
Standard HIV tests measure the levels of the antibodies that fight HIV, whereas our RNA-based test detects the virus itself in your blood. You can test 9 to 11 days after exposure and get the fastest, most accurate results available on the market. The HIV RNA Test for Early Detection is conclusive as early as 9-11 days post-exposure. We are the only online STD testing service that provides this FDA-approved RNA-based HIV Early Detection Test. This test looks for the presence of HIV RNA in the plasma of patients.
HIV RNA Test-Early Detection. Our doctors have selected the HIV-1 early detection test to find the presence of HIV. This is the fastest and most accurate test for HIV available today. Our physicians recommend testing a full 2 weeks after exposure to ensure the highest accuracy. The HIV Early Detection Test is a blood test. When you get to the lab, the lab technician will draw one small tube of blood. There's no need to get undressed or have any uncomfortable swabbing.
Here's a look at available HIV tests: Standard tests. These blood tests check for HIV antibodies. Your body makes antibodies in response to the HIV infection. These tests can't detect HIV in the blood soon after infection because it takes time for your body to make these antibodies. It generally takes two to 8 weeks for your body to produce antibodies, but in some cases it can take up to six month
Antibody tests (Rapid tests) — give a positive result based on antibodies to HIV, not the virus itself. 1  2-8 weeks (up to 2 months) after infection, most people will have enough antibodies to test positive. 2  12 weeks (3 months) after infection, about 97% of people will have enough antibodies to test positive. The window period can be from 9 days to 3-6 months, depending on the person's body and on the HIV-test that's used. During that time, you can test HIV negative even though you're HIV infected.