The vitamin B-12 your body obtains from foods like pickled herring is necessary for the metabolism of fats, carbohydrates and proteins. It supports the health of the nervous system and aids in the synthesis of red blood cells, DNA, RNA and the immune compound S-adenosylmethionine, or SAMe.
Pickled herring has about as much vitamin B-12 in every 1-ounce serving as 1 cup of cottage cheese, an 8-ounce container of plain, low-fat yogurt, a 3-ounce serving of fish such as halibut or haddock or six large scallops.
The Nutrition of Pickled Herring. Pickled herring is thought of as a delicacy in many parts of Europe, so much so that pickled herring has found itself as part of the cuisine of Germans, Jews, Scandinavians, Baltic people and Eastern Slavs.
A 1-ounce, approximately 28-gram serving of boneless pickled herring contains 1.2 micrograms of vitamin B-12. This amount supplies 50 percent of the Food and Nutrition Board's recommended daily allowance of vitamin B-12 for adult men and women.
Include pickled herring in your diet to increase your intake of vitamin B-12. With 71 percent of the daily recommended intake, this fish is good for nerve health. You also take in 17 percent of the vitamin A and 16 percent of the niacin you require each day.
The big health benefit of pickled herring is the presence of Omega 3 fatty acids and also a spot of Vitamin D. Omega 3 is essential to the human body because of its central role in being involved with development and growth, heart health and circulation.
Each 1-ounce serving of pickled herring contains 247 milligrams of sodium, or 11 percent of the daily limit recommended for healthy adults, and over 16 percent of the maximum amount advised for people on a sodium-restricted diet.
Possible Health Risks. While the health benefits of pickled herring are considered to outweigh any possible health risks, it is still necessary to highlight possible health problems from pickled herring. For one, a certain way of preparing pickled herring is the culprit in stoking these beliefs of possible health risks.