Normally the only cardiac valve that is bicuspid is the mitral valve (bicuspid valve) which is situated between the left atrium and left ventricle. Cardiac valves play a crucial role in ensuring the unidirectional flow of blood from the atrium to the ventricles, or the ventricle to the aorta or pulmonary trunk. 
The bicuspid, or mitral valve (also called the left atrioventricular valve), is located between the left atrium and left ventricle. It prevents any backward flow of blood duri … ng contractions of the left ventricle. 4 people found this useful. Don Dfoofnik. The bicuspid (or mitral) valves each have two large flaps, curved to close the rear entrance of a chamber, through which blood enter … s. The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium and the right ventricle. It normally has three flaps but may have two or even four flaps, and this can change with age.
The bicuspid valve, also known as the mitral valve, is a structure in the left side of the heart that controls the flow of oxygenated blood. 
The mitral valve (also known as the bicuspid valve or left atrioventricular valve) is a dual-flap (bi-from the Latin, meaning double, and mitral-from the Latin, meaning shaped like a mitre) valve in the heart that lies between the left atrium (LA) and the left ventricle (LV). The closing of the mitral valve and the tricuspid valve constitutes the first heart sound (S1). It is not the valve closure itself which produces the sound but the sudden cessation of blood flow, when the mitral and tricuspid valves close. There are some valvular heart diseases that affect the mitral valve.
Diastole ends with atrial contraction, which ejects the final 20% of blood that is transferred from the left atrium to the left ventricle. This amount of blood is known as end-diastolic volume (EDV), and the mitral valve closes at the end of atrial contraction to prevent a reversal of blood flow. The closing of the mitral valve and the tricuspid valve constitutes the first heart sound (S1). It is not the valve closure itself which produces the sound but the sudden cessation of blood flow, when the mitral and tricuspid valves close. There are some valvular heart diseases that affect the mitral valve.
Left atrioventricular valve (Mitral valve). The mitral valve is located within the heart. It lies between the left atrium and the left ventricle. The mitral valve opens to increased pressure as the left atrium fills with blood. Blood flows through into the left ventricle as the heart expands (diastole). It then closes as the heart contracts (systole) and forces blood into the aorta.
The function of bicuspid valve is crucial. The heart has four valves out of which the bicuspid valve is one of them. The bicuspid valve or mitral valve is located between left atrium and left ventricle, and it allows the flow of blood to flow from left auricle to left ventricle. The mitral valve is also known as the bicuspid valve because of the presence of two, cusps that is valves. Valves causes the flow of blood from arteries to ventricles or from the ventricles to arteries. The bicuspid aortic valve is the most common deformity of the heart
The bicuspid, or mitral valve (also called the left atrioventricular valve), is located between the left atrium and left ventricle. It prevents any backward flow of blood duri … ng contractions of the left ventricle. 4 people found this useful. The valves located between the upper and lower chambers of the heart are known as the atrioventricular valves. On the right side, it is known as the tricuspid valve because it … has three flaps. On the left side, it is known as the bicuspid or mitral valve because it has two flaps. 1 person found this useful. Answered.
The mitral valve (not to be confused with the congenital bicuspid aortic valve) and the tricuspid valve are known collectively as the atrioventricular valves because they lie between the atria and the ventricles of the heart and control the flow of blood. The closing of the mitral valve and the tricuspid valve constitutes the first heart sound (S1). It is not the valve closure itself which produces the sound but the sudden cessation of blood flow, when the mitral and tricuspid valves close. There are some valvular heart diseases that affect the mitral valve.