1 6 Year Period: If the income on the tax return was understated income by 25% or more the statute of limitations to audit the return can be extended by another 3 years. 2  Unlimited Time Period: If the tax return was filed with the intent to commit fraud then the statute of limitations can be extended to forever. If the IRS does not complete the audit within 3 years of the due date for the tax return then the taxpayer cannot be held liable for any additional taxes owed (unless fraud exists or income was under reported by 25% or more).
Statute of Limitations. Generally, the statute of limitations for tax return audits is three years. For example, the IRS would have until April 15, 2016 to assess additional tax on a business that files a 2012 tax return on April 15, 2013. However, the IRS can reach back six years if a business erroneously fails to report more than 25 percent of its gross income. Furthermore, the IRS can audit as far back as necessary to address tax fraud, or when businesses completely fail to file tax returns.
So it ends up being either 4 or 7 years. You should think of it in terms of the number of tax returns they go back, rather than in time. After all, in an audit, they want that many years worth of data, which comes in 12 month chunks (April 16 of last year to April 15 of the current year). They make every effort to let the person pay back taxes in installments, but, should that person goof off and not make any attempt they will find their butts in court. They can go back 7 years (Statute of Limitations). Some 8 plus years ago I watched a program on the IRS. They were so cold-blooded many people turned to suicide because they lost everything and many people ended up out on the street. The poor really got the worst of it
Before you start to panic, rest assured that the IRS has a statute of limitations in place that generally puts a limit on the time allowed to audit you and assess additional tax. Typically, the statute of limitations is three years for the IRS to include a tax return in an audit. This means the statute of limitations likely ran out on the majority of 2010 returns. 
Should the audit uncover a major error, the IRS has the ability to look at returns filed for earlier years as well. However, they don't usually go back farther than six years. The IRS tries to act on audits as quickly as possible. This means that most audits happen on returns filed within the last two years. Exceptions to the Three Year Statute of Limitations. The IRS has the right to audit back as far as six years if the taxpayer omitted more than 25% of their income for a single year. Taxpayers who leave out greater than $5,000 earned in foreign countries may also be audited as far back as six years. Not filing a tax return is not a good way to avoid an audit. 
Each has a separate audit clock. If you have $5,000 or more of overseas income (say, interest on an overseas account), the IRS can audit up to six years from your original filing. Likewise, if you have a “substantial understatement” of income–25% or more–the IRS gets six years.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: General rule: Three years from the date the return was filed or three years from the due date whichever is later. Six years if your income is understated by 25% or more. This means income, not taxable income or tax due. The burden of proof is on IRS to show the understatement. No limit if there is fraud
The statute of limitations on how far back the IRS can audit (called the Assessment Statute Expiration Date or ASED) varies depending upon the circumstances of the tax return. In most cases the IRS will not go back more than 3 years unless there is something very wrong with the tax return that was filed. If the IRS does not complete the audit within 3 years of the due date for the tax return then the taxpayer cannot be held liable for any additional taxes owed (unless fraud exists or income was under reported by 25% or more).