Eye Exam Prices by Metro Area. The price of a no-insurance eye exam also fluctuates widely based on locality. As of 2015, you could have gotten an eye exam in Knoxville, Tennessee, for as little as $29 or as expensive as $560 in Sunnyvale, California. Ensure that the costs you are comparing are the same.
1 The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 2  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 3  Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists.
According to vision insurance provider Vision Service Plan Direct, the national average price as of June 2015 of a comprehensive eye exam without insurance is $154. The latter does not include frames, prescription lenses or optical lens enhancements. As of 2015, you could have gotten an eye exam in Knoxville, Tennessee, for as little as $29 or as expensive as $560 in Sunnyvale, California. Ensure that the costs you are comparing are the same.
1 Discount clinics, such as those at WalMart, can charge as little as $50 for an eye exam. 2  For patients with vision insurance coverage, the typical copay will apply. 3  For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 4  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists.
The main ones are: Walmart Vision Center, Lenscrafters, Pearle Vision, America’s Best, Empire Vision, JCPenney Optical, Sears Optical and Costco Optical. On average, for a regular eye exam, you can expect to pay between $40 and $70, without the aid of cost cutters such as coupons. Pearle Vision has been in operation ever since 1961 when Dr. Stanley Pearle founded the company. It has over 45 years of experience, and offers you great service as well as a good product. The Pearle Vision eye exam cost will set you back usually around $50 – $60.
1 Glasses can cost just $8 or up to $600 for those without insurance. 2  For name brands, prices can range between $50 and $1,000 or more. 3  At an eye doctor's clinic, prices for eyeglasses will vary depending upon the frames, lenses and region of the country. 1 Prices vary tremendously, depending upon the type of frame, lenses and type of retailer. 2  Glasses can cost just $8 or up to $600 for those without insurance. 3
Generally, eye exam costs can range from less than $50 (usually at a retail store or optical chain) to $100 or more (usually at a medical clinic or private eye doctor's office). Also, eye exams for contact lenses nearly always cost more than routine eye exams to update your eyeglasses prescription. When comparing how much an eye exam costs, be sure you are comparing apples to apples.. A comprehensive eye exam should include at least the following:
1 The national average charge for an eye exam is $114 for those without insurance, according to the Vision Service Plan. 2  The cost varies depending upon the clinic and region of the country. 3  Lakewood Family Eye Care clinic, in Lakewood Ranch, Fla., charges $109 for an eye exam for those without insurance. 1 For some, the vision plan covers the full cost of a regular annual eye exam. 2  Other plans charge a copay of $5 to $35. 3  Some clinics have a separate charge for retraction, a test that determines the patient's prescription. 4  This varies by clinic, ranging from $15 to $40 at the Main Line Eye Specialists.
The cost of an eye exam can vary significantly, based on where you get your exam and other factors, including: 1  Whether the exam is performed by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist. 2  The tests that are included in the exam. 3  Whether the exam includes a contact lens fitting or other contact lens-related services. Also, eye exams for contact lenses nearly always cost more than routine eye exams to update your eyeglasses prescription. When comparing how much an eye exam costs, be sure you are comparing apples to apples.. A comprehensive eye exam should include at least the following: