Non magnetic iron left undisturbed will acquire a field from the magnetic field of the earth, so some change in the orientation of the field could happen to these little magnets, depending on how they lay with respect to the weak field of the earth. share | cite | improve this answer. answered Sep 15 '11 at 4:27. If a permanent magnet could decay at the rate given in Rook's answer above there would be none found in geological strata. A permanent magnet has a permanent orientation of the magnetic moments in a specific vectorially additive direction depending on small crystal domains. To change, i.e. be demagnetized, the magnetic moments have to be randomized by either an external magnetic field or excess heat/melting or vibrations possibly
If they are not exposed to any o … f these conditions, permanent magnets will lose magnetism on their own, however this degradation is very slow, on the order of one percentage point every ten years or so. I have Extra(Sugarless gum). It's the long lasting time and after 15 minutes the flavor goes down. Depends on how fast ya chew it and if your chewing more than one piece at a … time. But Stride nonstop mint actually is said to last 5 to 6 freaking HOURS! Never tried it-- 'cause it costs around 14$...
Best Answer: Magnets, by their nature, create a static field of electromagnetic force near the magnet. This field has a very limited range, depending on the strength of the magnet. As long as the individual 'polar' molecules of atoms that make up the magnet remain aligned, the magnet will keep its strength. Because the field is static, it won't induce an electric current until you move the magnet in some way. some magents can last for a 1000YEARS. meaning they lose about 1% per decade. 10x100=1000. Some magnets can last indefinately. obviously if all magnets lost their charge in a 1000YEARS we wouldn't be finding so many in nature.
The Strength of the Magnets. If you get a bracelet with permanent magnets it won t lose its effect even if you wear it till your last breath. High quality neodymium magnets don t lose their strength the way many other magnets can do. Studies have shown that bracelets with this type of magnet lose about 1% of their strength every 10th year. This means that it will stay effective for as long as you need it, especially when you get the bracelets with magnets of 1,000-3,500 Gauss. You can expect a quality magnetic bracelet to last for at least a few decade
A permanent magnet is a magnet which will keep its magnetism for a very long time and is difficult to change. Jerry: No, As I think a permanent magnet means they have abili … ties to hold the magnetism when they are magnetized. A permanent magnet will retain its magnetism unless it is affected by a strong outside magnetic or electrical force, or elevated temperatures.
Do magnets that are found in nature last forever? If I make a motor that runs by the magnetic forces of magnets, then will it run forever??? If not forever, how long will it keep running? some magents can last for a 1000YEARS. meaning they lose about 1% per decade. 10x100=1000. Some magnets can last indefinately. obviously if all magnets lost their charge in a 1000YEARS we wouldn't be finding so many in nature.
The more accurate term is magnetization. How long a magnet takes to lose its magnetization is a function of what the magnetic materials is made up of, and how high a temperature you heat it too. At high temperatures, any magnet will lose its magnetization rather quickly (in a matter of minutes, if the temperature is high). Magnets stay magnetized until something destabilizes them. The constant jostling of molecules (i.e. heat) slowly disorganizes the magnetic domains in a magnet, and this happens faster the hotter the magnet. Ultimately, a magnet will align itself to any pre-existing magnetic field, such as that of the Earth. I don't know how long it would take for a magnet on your refrigerator to demagnetize-probably longer than a human lifetime