Untreated bacterial infections tend to get worse. Some bacterial infections that are left untreated can cause serious illness and even death, even those that are not usually considered serious. It is important for patients who may have a bacterial infection to see a physician right away.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Most bacterial infections can be treated. Common bacterial infections include strep throat, urinary tract infections, and tuberculosis. Certain bacterial infections, if not treated properly, can lead to more serious complications.
Definition. Staph infections are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Most of the time, these bacteria cause no problems or result in relatively minor skin infections.
A bacterial infection is a proliferation of a harmful strain of bacteria on or inside the body. Bacteria can infect any area of the body. Pneumonia, meningitis, and food poisoning are just a few illnesses that may be caused by harmful bacteria.
Bacterial vaginosis is a mild infection of the vagina caused by bacteria. Normally, there are a lot of good bacteria and some bad bacteria in the vagina. The good types help control the growth of the bad types. In women with bacterial vaginosis, the balance is upset.
Sometimes, these infections aren't associated with any symptoms but can still cause serious damage to the reproductive system. Common STDs caused by bacterial infections include: 1  Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis.
Bacterial skin infections are usually caused by gram-positive strains of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus or other organisms. Common bacterial skin infections include: 1  Cellulitis causes a painful, red infection that is usually warm to the touch. 2  Cellulitis occurs most often on the legs, but it can appear anywhere on the body. 3  Folliculitis is an infection of the hair follicles that causes red, swollen bumps that look like pimples.
Some of the most common bacterial infections include ear infections, diarrhea, urinary tract infections, pneumonia, and certain types of skin disorders. Often the symptoms related to bacteria infections include fevers, stomach nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, swelling, fatigue, and excessive thirst.