A panniculectomy is when a pannus is surgically removed. A pannus is excess skin and adipose tissue, sometimes referred to as an apron that hangs down over ones genitals and/or thighs. This excess tissue can make it difficult to maintain good hygiene in the genital area. It can also make it difficult to walk and perform other physical activities. The difference between a panniculectomy and abdominoplasty is a panniculectomy only removes the apron of the skin.
An average cost for Panniculectomy Surgery is around $8,000 to $10,000, although prices vary depending on various factors, including the location where you get the surgery performed. Some people choose to get this procedure abroad, which can potentially mean saving of up to 70% of the total cost. An overhanging Abdominal Pannus, or Tummy Apron, can be caused by pregnancy, or by extreme weight-loss, and is often an unfortunate side-effect of Bariatric surgery. Panniculectomy costs are high, as the procedure is a specialist one.
1 C-section scar removal as part of Abdominal Wall Sculpture 51 year old female. 2  Abdominoplasty 27 year old After C-Sections and with Stretch Marks. 3  Compromise Panniculectomy surgery of the abdomen for massive extra tissue (pannus). 1 Stretch marks removed with surgery. 2  C-section scar removal as part of Abdominal Wall Sculpture 51 year old female. 3  Abdominoplasty 27 year old After C-Sections and with Stretch Marks. 4
Since the panniculectomy procedure is usually performed during an abdominoplasty, you only pay one anesthesia fee and one facility fee. Your treatment will be customized to fit your individual needs, so only an estimated range of costs can be given. Average total fees range from $8,500 to $10,000. Insurance coverage for panniculectomy cost varies. If the procedure is strictly for cosmetic reasons, insurance will not foot the bill. This insurance issue is not isolated to panniculectomy or even plastic surgery
Panniculectomy involves the surgical removal of the Abdominal Pannus, which you may know also by the expressions Tummy Apron, Abdominal Apron, Baby Apron or Mothers’ Apron. The procedure is frequently confused with Abdominoplasty (Tummy Tuck Surgery), although the operation is quite unrelated. An overhanging Abdominal Pannus, or Tummy Apron, can be caused by pregnancy, or by extreme weight-loss, and is often an unfortunate side-effect of Bariatric surgery. Panniculectomy costs are high, as the procedure is a specialist one.
One area where this excess skin is common is in the pannus, also known as the abdominal apron. This area refers to the excess fat and skin located in the lower abdomen, which often hangs just below the belt line. Recovery Time. Most panniculectomy patients spend at least one night in the hospital recovering. After returning home, it can take several months for the area to heal completely. During the initial recovery phase, lasting several weeks, you may experience swelling, bruising, and discomfort.
How much does an apron pannus removal surgery cost. How much does an apron pannus removal surgery cost. PANNUS ‘APRON’ REMOVAL. PANNUS ‘APRON’ REMOVAL. The extra skin and fat hanging below the belt line in the lower area of the stomach is called the pannus, or abdominal “apron”. This may extend several inches from the body, covering the genital areas, and will likely become burdensome because of the added weight
The cost of panniculectomy usually ranges from about $8,000 to $12,000 which is more than the cost of tummy tuck surgery. This figure includes the surgeon’s fee, the facility fee, and the anesthesia fee. Recovery Time. Most panniculectomy patients spend at least one night in the hospital recovering. After returning home, it can take several months for the area to heal completely. During the initial recovery phase, lasting several weeks, you may experience swelling, bruising, and discomfort.
Tweet. A pannus is the medical term for a hanging flap of tissue and when the abdomen is involved, this term refers to skin and fat that fold over and hang like an apron. In general, this fold of skin develops with prolonged weight gain and obesity however, at times pregnancy can lead to the same type of tissue change. 