Sympatric speciation is the formation of new species where the genetic modification has been based on a single ancestor. As the term sympatric implies, the geographic range is the same for both the new and former species. 
Sympatric speciation refers to the formation of two or more descendant species from a single ancestral species all occupying the same geographic location. Often-cited examples of sympatric speciation are found in insects that become dependent on different host plants in the same area. There are four geographic modes of speciation in nature, based on the extent to which speciating populations are isolated from one another: allopatric, peripatric, parapatric, and sympatric. Speciation may also be induced artificially, through animal husbandry, agriculture, or laboratory experiments.
Lesson Summary. Though not common, sympatric speciation is an important evolutionary process that can separate a species into two new ones. This is a relatively uncommon form of speciation, though it has been observed in hawthorn flies and orcas. Sympatric speciation occurs if interactions are so limited between these groups that mating no longer occurs between them. Each new population of flies will have genetic variation in its gene pool, which is the collective genetic information for the group.
Parapatric speciation is the evolution of geographically adjacent populations into distinct species. In this case, divergence occurs despite limited interbreeding where the two diverging groups come into contact. In sympatric speciation, there is no geographic constraint to interbreeding. The polyploidal offspring occupy the same environment as the parent plants (hence sympatry), but are reproductively isolated. A rare example of sympatric speciation in animals is the divergence of resident and transient Orca forms in the northeast Pacific.
In multicellular eukaryotic organisms, sympatric speciation is thought to be an uncommon but plausible process by which genetic divergence (through reproductive isolation) of various populations from a single parent species and inhabiting the same geographic region leads to the creation of new species. The polyploidal offspring occupy the same environment as the parent plants (hence sympatry), but are reproductively isolated. A rare example of sympatric speciation in animals is the divergence of resident and transient Orca forms in the northeast Pacific.
In evolutionary biology and biogeography, sympatric and sympatry are terms referring to organisms whose ranges overlap or are even identical, so that they occur together at least in some places. If these organisms are closely related (e.g. sister species), such a distribution may be the result of sympatric speciation. Etymologically, sympatry is derived from the Greek roots συν (together, with) and πατρίς (homeland or fatherland). The polyploidal offspring occupy the same environment as the parent plants (hence sympatry), but are reproductively isolated. A rare example of sympatric speciation in animals is the divergence of resident and transient Orca forms in the northeast Pacific.
Sympatric speciation is when two species (in the same geographic area) evolve from the same ancestor organism. As for an example, try doing a search for sympatric speciation stickleback. That should give you a great deal of information on speciation. Cheers! In Sympatric Speciation the separation is non-geographical but more behavioural or social. This form of speciation is believed to be particularly significant in the evolution of insect species and is subsequently favoured as a route of speciation by Entymologists.
Sympatric speciation. Definition. noun. A speciation in which new species evolve from a single ancestral species while inhabiting the same geographic region. Supplement. Sympatric speciation is more common in plants. For instance, parent plants produce offspring that are polyploid. Hence, the offspring live in the same environment as their parents but are reproductively isolated.
Sympatric speciation occurs when populations of a species that share the same habitat become reproductively isolated from each other. This speciation phenomenon most commonly occurs through polyploidy, in which an offspring or group of offspring will be produced with twice the normal number of chromosomes. Speciation can take place in two general ways. A single species may change over time into a new form that is different enough to be considered a new species. This process is known as anagenesis. More commonly, a species may become split into two groups that no longer share the same gene pool.
Unlike the previous modes, sympatric speciation does not require large-scale geographic distance to reduce gene flow between parts of a population. This host shift from hawthorns to apples may be the first step toward sympatric speciationin fewer than 200 years, some genetic differences between these two groups of flies have evolved.