Florida produces about one-fourth of the world's supply of phosphate. There are three major rock types: igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary. Igneous rocks, such as granite or basalt, form as a result of a magma (molten rock) that has cooled to form a variety of interlocking crystals. 
Igneous rocks solidify from a liquid magma as it cools. They are described on two axies: 1) Rocks that are quartz rich (felsic) to magnesium rich (mafic) and 2) fast cooling (small crystals) to slow cooling (large crystals). When a magma cools rapidly, mineral crystals do not have time to grow very large. Granite and basalt are opposites on these axies for the description of igneous rocks-granite is a slow cooled quartz rich rock, basalt a rapidly cooled mafic rock.
Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye. Basalt is a common extrusive igneous rock and forms lava flows, lava sheets and lava plateaus. Some kinds of basalt solidify to form long polygonal columns. The Giant's Causeway found in Antrim, Northern Ireland is an example. The molten rock, with or without suspended crystals and gas bubbles, is called magma
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. 
Geology 200. Geology for Environmental Scientists. Major Concepts. 1  Metamorphic rocks can be formed from any rock type: igneous, sedimentary, or existing metamorphic rocks. 2  Involves recrystallization in the solid state, often with little change in overall chemical composition. 3  Driving forces are changes in temperature, pressure, and pore fluids. 
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. Basalt is a common extrusive igneous rock and forms lava flows, lava sheets and lava plateaus. Some kinds of basalt solidify to form long polygonal columns. The Giant's Causeway found in Antrim, Northern Ireland is an example. The molten rock, with or without suspended crystals and gas bubbles, is called magma
/bəˈsɔːlt/ , /ˈbaesɒlt/ , /ˈbæsɒlt/ , ˈbaesɔːlt /ˈbæsɔːlt/) or ˈbeɪsɔːlt is a common (extrusive) igneous volcanic rock formed from the rapid cooling of basaltic lava exposed at or very near the surface of a planet. Or moon flood basalt describes the formation in a series of lava. basalt flows By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals.
Metamorphic rocks can form from either sedimentary or igneous rocks. The sedimentary particles from which a sedimentary rock is formed can be derived from a metamorphic, an igneous, or another sedimentary rock. All three rock types can be melted to form a magma. 