Bone: Osteoporosis is conditions of bones with decrease bone strength, which results in increase in risk of fractures. It is common in postmenopausal women and men greater than 70 years old and screening for osteoporosis is recommended by a special x-ray called dxa scan. ...Read more. Get help from a doctor now ›. The skeleton: Osteoporosis is a disease of decreased bone density that results in pain and increased risk of fracture. The causes of osteoporosis may be due to disorders of the kidneys, intestines, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, or pituitary gland.
Osteoporosis Weakens Bones. Osteoprosis most often affects the bones in the hip, spine and wrist. When you have osteoporosis your bones lose density and strength. Bone is dynamic -- it responds to exercise and weight changes. To help illustrate what happens, picture a white lace ribbon. The lace represents the bone becoming porous. Fractures Can Occur. If osteoporosis is left untreated, your bones can break. Fractures can occur as the result of a fall or just by lifting something, sneezing, coughing or bending and twisting during everyday activities. The breaks can be severe and cause disability, as in the case of a hip fracture.
It effects only bone: But other body systems cause osteoporosis. Also some external causes. Thyroid, renal disease, diabetes, mal absorption. There are more. Smoking, steroid exposure being in space with 0 gravity (most of us need not worry about this). Get help from a doctor now ›. The skeleton: Osteoporosis is a disease of decreased bone density that results in pain and increased risk of fracture. The causes of osteoporosis may be due to disorders of the kidneys, intestines, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, or pituitary gland.
By: Ayana Hayslett & Tyra Burks. How It affects the Body. Osteoporosis occurs when the body fails to form enough new bone, when too much old bone is reabsorbed by the body, or both. Calcium and phosphate are two minerals that are essential for normal bone formation. Throughout youth, your body uses these minerals to produce bones. 
Osteoporosis, or porous bone, is a disease characterized by low bone mass and structural deterioration of bone tissue, leading to bone fragility and an increased risk of fractures of the hip, spine, and wrist. Men as well as women are affected by osteoporosis, a disease that can be prevented and treated. 
Answers: It would affect all organs of the body. When the body can't stand upright anymore, breathing becomes labored, without breathing the person can't move much, so no exercise, all other organs are in the middle of the body, so they all get out of shape, too. It's a terrible disease! Osteoporosis is an imbalance of the osteoblast cells and the osteoclast cells.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It would affect all organs of the body. When the body can't stand upright anymore, breathing becomes labored, without breathing the person can't move much, so no exercise, all other organs are in the middle of the body, so they all get out of shape, too. It's a terrible disease! 
Osteoporosis affects all bones in the body. However, breaks are most common in the hip, wrist, and spine, also called vertebrae (VUR-tuh-bray). Vertebrae support your body, helping you to stand and sit up. See the picture below. Osteoporosis in the vertebrae can cause serious problems for women.