Bachelor of Science in Biology: Concentration in Physiology. The rapid growth of knowledge about the nature and function of biological mechanisms has made physiology a corner-stone of the biological and medical sciences. 
physiology. the branch of biology dealing with the functions and activities of living organisms and their parts, including all physical and chemical processes. 
physiology. 1. the science that treats of the functions of the living organism and its parts, and of the physical and chemical factors and processes involved. 
Medical Definition of PHYSIOLOGICAL. 1. : of or relating to physiology. 2. : characteristic of or appropriate to an organism's healthy or normal functioning.3. — phys·i·o·log·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb.
Physiology. Definition. noun. (1) A branch of biology that deals with the functions, mechanisms, and activities of organisms at the cellular or organ system level. (2) The biological processes and functions of the parts of an organism. Supplement. Physiology is a broad sub-field in biology. 
physiology. 1. the branch of medical science that studies the functions of living organisms or their parts. 2. the organic processes or functions of an organism or any of its parts. — physiologist, n. — physiologic, physiological, adj. 
Noun. 1. physiology-the branch of the biological sciences dealing with the functioning of organisms. accommodation - (physiology) the automatic adjustment in focal length of the natural lens of the eye. adaptation - (physiology) the responsive adjustment of a sense organ (as the eye) to varying conditions (as of light).hysiology. 1. the branch of medical science that studies the functions of living organisms or their parts. 2. the organic processes or functions of an organism or any of its parts. — physiologist, n. — physiologic, physiological, adj.
Medical Definition of PHYSIOLOGY. 1. : a branch of biology that deals with the functions and activities of life or of living matter (as organs, tissues, or cells) and of the physical and chemical phenomena involved—compare anatomy 1, morphology 1. 2.3.ull Definition of PHYSIOLOGY. 1. : a branch of biology that deals with the functions and activities of life or of living matter (as organs, tissues, or cells) and of the physical and chemical phenomena involved — compare anatomy.
Full Definition of PHYSIOLOGY. 1. : a branch of biology that deals with the functions and activities of life or of living matter (as organs, tissues, or cells) and of the physical and chemical phenomena involved — compare anatomy.2.
Nearby Terms. 1  physical proper... 2  physical safegu... 3  physical standa... 4  physical verifi... 5  physician conti... 6  physicians and 7  ... physicians and 8  ... physician's cur... 9  physiological. 10  phytosanitary i... 11  phytotoxic. 12  phytotreatment. 13  PIBOR. 14  pica (pc or pi). 15  picketing. 16  pickling. 17  pico.