What hormones does my thyroid gland produce? The thyroid gland produces thyroxine (T4), which is a relatively inactive prohormone and lower amounts of the active hormone, triiodothyronine (T3). Collectively, T3 and T4 are referred to as the thyroid hormones.
Your thyroid gland produces the hormones T3 and thyroxine (T4), which play a role in metabolism. Your thyroid also produces calcitonin, which helps regulate blood calcium levels. In this lesson, you will learn about the thyroid gland and its hormones, including how they are regulated by TSH.
Thyroid Disorders. The thyroid gland is located at the front of your neck. This gland secretes hormones that govern many of the functions in your body, such as the way the body uses energy, consumes oxygen and produces heat. Thyroid disorders typically occur when this gland releases too many or too few hormones.
The thyroid gland produces the hormones thyroxine, triiodothyronine, and calcitonin. Thyroxine and triiodothyronine are produced by thyroid folliclar cells. Thyroid cells absorb iodine from certain foods and combine the iodine with tyrosine, an amino acid, to make thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3).
The thyroid gland also produces another hormone called calcitonin, and the parathyroid glands secrete parathyroid hormone. Parathyroid hormone and calcitonin participate in control of calcium and phosphorus homeostasis and have significant effects on bone physiology.
The primary function of your thyroid gland is to secrete thyroid hormones, which are responsible for controlling your body’s metabolism. The 2 main thyroid hormones are T3 (triiodothyronine) and T4 (thyroxine). The amount of thyroid hormones secreted is controlled by another hormone, called thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), which is released from the pituitary gland in your head.
The pituitary gland and hypothalamus both control the thyroid. When thyroid hormone levels drop too low, the hypothalamus secretes TSH Releasing Hormone (TRH), which alerts the pituitary to produce thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). The thyroid responds to this chain of events by producing more hormones.