Outer Arm. Note also that the Orion Arm is not a major spiral arm, but only an enhancement of stars and gas between the Sagittarius and Perseus arms. It should be emphasized that there are almost as many stars between the spiral arms as in the spiral arms
The Solar System is located within the disk, about 27,000 light-years from the Galactic Center, on the inner edge of one of the spiral-shaped concentrations of gas and dust called the Orion Arm. The stars in the inner ≈10,000 light-years form a bulge and one or more bars that radiate from the bulge. The Milky Way is a barred spiral galaxy that has a diameter usually considered to be roughly 100,000–120,000 light-years but may be 150,000–180,000 light-years. The Milky Way is estimated to contain 200–400 billion stars, although this number may be as high as one trillion.
We’re located close to the inner rim of this spiral arm, about halfway along its length. Our sun is about 26,000 to 28,000 light-years from the center of the Milky Way Galaxy, and about 20 light years above the galaxy's equatorial plane. Gore, Pamela J.W. Our Solar System in the Milky Way Galaxy and in the Universe. The Sun and Our Solar System is located in the Milky Way Galaxy.It is a Barred Spiral. On a dark night we may see a band of light stretching across the sky.We call this band the Milky Way; it is composed primarily of stars.
The Milky Way: the galaxy we know the most about (by far). Key points: Parts of a spiral galaxy: nucleus, bulge, disk, halo, dark matter; population I and II stars; formation of the Milky Way. Mapping of spiral arms of the Milky Way: A map of the Milky Way deduced from spiral arm tracers is to the left. 
Our galaxy is about 100,000 light-years wide. We’re about 25,000 light-years from the center of the galaxy. It turns out we’re not located in one of the Milky Way’s two primary spiral arms. Instead, we’re located in a minor arm of the galaxy. Our local spiral arm is sometimes Orion Arm, or sometimes the Orion Spur. It’s between the Sagittarius and Perseus Arms of the Milky Way. The image below shows it. Our sun is located the Orion Arm, or Orion Spur, of the Milky Way galaxy. It’s a minor spiral arm, located between two other arms. Image updated in 2010 by R. Hurt on Wikimedia Commons. Our local Orion Arm of the Milky Way is some 3,500 light years across. It’s approximately 10,000 light years in length. Our sun, the Earth, and all the other planets in our solar system reside within this Orion Arm. We’re located close to the inner rim of this spiral arm, about halfway along its length.
Spherical groups of millions of stars found in the Milky Way are called: a) novas b) globular clusters X c) open clusters d) galactic clusters 12-4. Where is the solar system located in the Milky Way? a) In a spiral arm b) In the nucleus c) In the halo d) Between spiral arms X 12-5. The Milky Way’s halo has which of the following shapes? a) spherical X b) cylindrical c) disk d) cube 12-6. 
But when it comes down to it, our galaxy is a typical barred spiral, much like billions of other galaxies in the universe. Let's take a look at the Milky Way. Location, location, location. A glance up at the night sky reveals a broad swath of light. The Milky Way is a barred spiral galaxy, about 100,000 light-years across. If you could look down on it from the top, you would see a central bulge surrounded by four large spiral arms that wrap around it. Spiral galaxies make up about two-third of the
Orion spur. Our Sun is located within the Orion spur. Although not a spiral arm, the Orion spur is nevertheless a major Milky Way structure that crosses the Perseus arm, linking the Sagittarius and Outer arms. Such spurs connecting two or more spiral arms are a common feature of spiral galaxies. 
In this model, there are 4 spiral arms and the Sun is located about 7.9 kpc from the center of the galaxy (marked by a +). While this appears to show where the arms are, other maps by other astronomers show different features or a different number of arms. Based upon data from J. P. Vallee (2005). 
The Milky Way is a barred spiral galaxy that measures about 100,000 light-years across, and is thought to contain between 100 and 400 billion stars. The Solar System (and Earth) is located about 25,000 light-years to the galactic center and 25,000 light-years away from the rim. The Solar System is located in a region in between the two arms called the Orion-Cygnus arm. This arm measures 3,500 light-years across and is 10,000 light-years in length, where it breaks off from the Sagittarius Arm.