The 3 types of tectonic plate boundaries are convergent, transform, and divergent. A convergent boundary is one where two plates are moving toward each other. Typically one plate is forced beneath the other (ex: the Andes mountains and the Japanese islands).
(Answer #1). The 3 types of tectonic plate boundaries are convergent, transform, and divergent. A convergent boundary is one where two plates are moving toward each other. Typically one plate is forced beneath the other (ex: the Andes mountains and the Japanese islands).
Here are examples of a divergent boundary: The Mid-Atlantic ridge, Red Sea Rift, Baikal Rift Zone, East African Rift, East Pacific Rise, Gakkel Ridge, Galapagos Rise, Explorer … Ridge, Pacific-Antarctic Ridge, and the West Antarctic Rift.
In plate tectonics, a Divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between … two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. These areas can form on the end of continents but eventually form ocean basins.
In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other.
Examples of a divergent boundary would be a mid-ocean ridge. Two plates are pulling apart from each other. If you have heard before, the magma from the asthenosphere find a way to get out through the crack of the diverging plates and makes new land.
Here are examples of a divergent boundary: The Mid-Atlantic ridge, Red Sea Rift, Baikal Rift Zone, East African Rift, East Pacific Rise, Gakkel Ridge, Galapagos Rise, Explorer … Ridge, Pacific-Antarctic Ridge, and the West Antarctic Rift.
In this lesson, you will learn the meaning of the term 'divergent boundary' in the context of plate tectonics. A number of features and examples of divergent boundaries will be introduced. A short quiz will follow.