Degrees available. A NP can seek a master’s or DNP from a nursing school, although the DNP is suggested by the AACN. In the U.S., there are 92 DNP programs available for nurse practitioners. 170 physician assistant programs, most of which were master’s degrees, were available in 2012, according to the BLS.
A nurse practitioner, or NP, is a registered nurse who is trained to provide various health care services and, depending on state regulations, may be able to see patients and practice medicine in the same way that a doctor of medicine (MD) can.
When the patient asks me what the difference is between a PA and an NP, the difference is really in our training and our background, said Physician Assistant Patrick Killeen, president of the American Academy of Physician Assistants (AAPA).
Nurse practitioners (NPs) work in a variety of settings. So do physician assistants (PAs). They can both be found in hospitals and clinics, from rural to urban practices. PAs care for a variety of conditions. So do NPs.
Another difference between the practice of physician assistants and nurse practitioners is that a physician assistant must practice under the supervision of a physician.
Both physician assistants (PAs) and nurse practitioners (NPs) are vital members of the healthcare team, and often perform similar responsibilities. PA and NP scope of practice depends on state laws, hospital rules and decisions about team practice made by the supervising or collaborating physician.
Another difference to consider when looking at a nurse practitioner vs physicians assistant career is the areas of specialization that are available. NPs can work in many different and diverse areas, such as geriatrics, mental health, pediatrics and women’s health.
Another difference to consider when looking at a nurse practitioner vs physician’s assistant career is the areas of specialization that are available. NPs can work in many different and diverse areas, such as geriatrics, mental health, pediatrics and women’s health.
Although a physician assistant and a nurse practitioner sometimes perform similar job duties, they have separate education and certification requirements. The laws governing PAs and nurse practitioners are set at the state level and dictate the training requirements and job duties of each profession.