Because we’re in Perth (the capital city of Western Australia) and Argyle’s head office is in Perth as well, with the mine located in the Kimberley, people assume and even think it’s logical that we should sell diamonds from the Argyle diamond mine.
The Argyle diamond pipe is in a small valley at the southend of the Matsu Range. The pipe is about 2 km long by 150-500 m wide and steep-sided. The shape of the pipe has been modified by faulting, regional tilting, and the coalescence of two or more vents (Boxer and others, 1989).
Pink and Red Diamonds. The Argyle mine in the far north of Western Australia has, for 3 decades, produced most of the world's very rare red and pink diamonds. Argyle has supplied almost all the worlds purple pink diamonds; other mines produce paler more orangey
Argyle is the fourth largest diamond producing mine in the world by volume, averaging annual production of 8 million carats (1,600 kg). Production peaked in 1994, when 42 million carats (8,400 kg) were produced.he diamonds produced at the Argyle diamond mine are of an average low quality. Only 5% of mined diamonds are of gem quality, compared to a worldwide average of 20%; of the remaining 95%, they are about evenly split between classifications of near gem quality and industrial grade.
Argyle Diamonds. The Argyle diamond mine is the world’s biggest supplier of diamonds. It yields about 80 percent brown diamonds, some 15 percent yellow hues, about 4 percent white diamonds and the remaining 1 percent are red to pink, green and blue hues.
Say Gooday to diamonds down under. The Argyle Diamond Mine is located in a remote territory of Western Australia. Unearthed from this rugged region are beautiful and natural diamonds with natural, untreated color whose origins began 90 miles below the earth’s surface over one billion years ago. As one of the largest diamond producers in the world, the Argyle Diamond Mine is known for the exquisite champagne diamonds that originate there. Each diamond is a unique treasure with a known and confirmed provenance. Both white diamonds and champagne diamonds are featured in the Argyle Diamond Jewelry Collection.
The Argyle mine, located in the Kimberley region in the far northeast area of Western Australia, is the world's largest single producer of diamonds. The mine lies some 550km southwest of Darwin by air. The region is remote, rugged and hot, with temperatures of more than 40°C during the wet season from October to March.
An example of an Argyle style pattern. An argyle (occasionally argyll) pattern is made of diamonds or lozenges. The word is sometimes used to refer to an individual diamond in the design but more commonly refers to the overall pattern. Most argyle layouts contain layers of overlapping motifs, adding a sense of three-dimensionality, movement, and texture. The argyle pattern is derived from the tartan of Clan Campbell, of Argyll in western Scotland, used for kilts and plaids, and from the patterned socks worn by Scottish Highlanders since at least the 17th century. (See illustrations in History of the kilt .) These were generally known as tartan hose.
The Argyle Diamond Mine is a diamond mine located in the East Kimberley region in the remote north of Western Australia. Argyle is the largest diamond producer in the world by volume, although due to the low proportion of gem-quality diamonds it is set to close by 2020. It is the only known significant source of pink diamonds, producing over 90% of the world's supply. The diamonds produced at the Argyle diamond mine are of an average low quality. Only 5% of mined diamonds are of gem quality, compared to a worldwide average of 20%; of the remaining 95%, they are about evenly split between classifications of near gem quality and industrial grade.