Many bipolar disorder medications are available, including anticonvulsants, antipsychotics, and antidepressants. Several different medications have been approved to treat bipolar disorder, and many more are used  off-label  to treat the condition. Some are more useful for treating bipolar mania, while others are best for treating bipolar depression.
H. Anticonvulsant. Valproic Acid (Depakote). Valproic acid is an epilepsy medication that is now used for the treatment of panic attacks as well as other psychiatric problems. Possible Benefits. Treatment of panic disorder. Possible Disadvantages. Can cause bruising or bleeding when taken with aspirin. Learn about the benefits, side-effects and disadvantages of the anticonvulsant Depakote for treatment of panic attacks.
Today, they are often prescribed alone, with lithium, or with an antipsychotic drug to control mania. Anticonvulsants work by calming hyperactivity in the brain in various ways. For this reason, some of these drugs are used to treat epilepsy, prevent migraines, and treat other brain disorders. Women With Bipolar Disorder. Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder with distinct periods of extreme euphoria and energy (mania) and sadness or hopelessness (depression). It's also known as manic depression or manic depressive disorder. Bipolar disorder occurs with similar frequency in men and women
In this article. Several anticonvulsant medications are recognized as mood stabilizers to treat or prevent mood episodes in bipolar disorder. At first, anticonvulsants were prescribed only for people who did not respond to lithium. Women With Bipolar Disorder. Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder with distinct periods of extreme euphoria and energy (mania) and sadness or hopelessness (depression). It's also known as manic depression or manic depressive disorder. Bipolar disorder occurs with similar frequency in men and women
When prescribed in addition to other anticonvulsants being used as mood stabilizers, the final dose is often between 100 and 200 mg per day. Some patient with Bipolar Disorder do well on as little as a total daily dose of 50 mg/day. 
Anticonvulsants, also known as anti-seizure medications, are primarily used to treat disorders like epilepsy, but many have been found to be quite effective in regulating the mood swings that come with bipolar disorder. These anti-seizure medications can serve as a substitute treatment if lithium is not the drug best suited to a particular patient. Some of these medications even seem to have advantages over lithium, but, as with most drugs, there is the potential for side effects, some of them dangerous.
Some of the anticonvulsants currently being used for treatment of bipolar disorder include carbamazepine, valproate, lamotrigine, gabapentin, topiramate, oxcarbazepine, zonisamide, tiagabine, felbamate, levatiracetam, phenytoin, and pregabalin. Handley Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Oxford, then gave his overview of the use of anticonvulsant medications in bipolar depression. He initially asked why we use anticonvulsants in bipolar disorder and related that one reason was because pathophysiologically and pharmacologically, they make some sense.
Where it fits in. Anticonvulsants are an effective mood-stabilizing treatment for bipolar disorder. Some are considered first-line treatments, or alternatives to lithium, the most widely used and effective treatment for bipolar. These anti-seizure medications can serve as a substitute treatment if lithium is not the drug best suited to a particular patient. Some of these medications even seem to have advantages over lithium, but, as with most drugs, there is the potential for side effects, some of them dangerous.