Full Answer. Certain antibiotics used to treat bacterial vaginosis can be taken by mouth or inserted into the vagina as cream, gel or a suppository. Vaginal medicines are advantageous because they cause fewer systemic side effects than oral medications, according to WebMD.
And when compared to amoxicillin and penicillin for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis, metronidazole is more discriminative. Because of penicillin’s and its derivatives’ lack of discrimination towards bacteria, they are less frequently used for treatment of bacterial vaginosis.
Bacterial vaginosis is a mild infection of the vagina caused by bacteria. Normally, there are a lo … t of good bacteria and some bad bacteria in the vagina. The good types help control the growth of the bad types. In women with bacterial vaginosis, the balance is upset.
Certain antibiotics used to treat bacterial vaginosis can be taken by mouth or inserted into the vagina as cream, gel or a suppository.
Covers how well they work and side effects. Looks at antibiotics used to treat bacterial vaginosis. Looks at oral and vaginal medicines like clindamycin phosphate (Cleocin), metronidazole (MetroGel-Vaginal), and tinidazole (Tindamax). 
Bacterial vaginosis is tr … eated with  antibiotics. Amoxicillin can be used for treating this infection,  but it is not a first line treatment and is oftentimes not  effective. Physicians usually prescribe Flaygl or Cleocin to treat  this infection.
Quick Answer. According to WebMD, penicillin is not commonly prescribed to cure bacterial vaginosis. Antibiotics such as clindamycin, metronidazole and tinidazole destroy bacteria that caus
Oral or vaginal metronidazole and vaginal clindamycin cream cure bacterial vaginosis in as many as 8 out of 10 cases. Although medicine usually cures bacterial vaginosis, it often comes back. Some doctors have women use medicine for a longer time to prevent this.
Susceptible microorganisms are Gram-positive bacteria and Gram-negative bacteria. This means both drugs (amoxicillin and penicillin) can treat a wide variety of infections. However, unlike amoxicillin and penicillin, the routinely prescribed drug, metronidazole, has a more selective action towards anaerobic bacteria. These bacteria are the ones causing the signs and symptoms of bacterial vaginosis.