Yael or Jael (Hebrew Ya'el, יָעֵל, meaning Ibex) is a woman mentioned in the Book of Judges in the Bible, as the heroine who killed Sisera to deliver Israel from the troops of King Jabin. 
Jael Name Meaning. The meaning of Jael is “Prominent”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jael and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jael and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Jael is fascinating, learn more about it
Biblical Meaning: The name Jael is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Jael is: He that ascends; a kid. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jael is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jael is: Mountain goat. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Jael /jael/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Jael) is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jael is mountain goat. Kreatif forms: Jaelia, Jaella. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Jael. Jael is a Hebrew name, from Yael yaél “meaning” ibex “or” (chimois which are species of wild mountain), goats from the root yael “yaél meaning, to profit” (to ascend perhaps in reference to’the goat s nimble ability to ascend mountains). with ease 
Jael meaning. The name Jael is pronounced the same as the word for mountain goat, but distinctions in pronunciation were added many centuries after this text was written. Still, for a meaning of the name Jael, both BDB Theological Dictionary and NOBSE Study Bible Name List read Mountain Goat. Jones' Dictionary of Old Testament Proper Names translates this name with Ibex
Jael /jael/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Jael) is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jael is mountain goat. Biblical: Jael was a heroic woman who killed the Canaanite captain Sisera. Jael is a rare given name for women. Jael is a unique surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Jael for girls. Jael has yet to make it into the list thus far
Meaning & History. From the Hebrew name יָעֵל (Ya'el) meaning ibex, mountain goat. This name appears in the Old Testament belonging to a woman who kills the captain of the Canaanite army, giving the victory to Israel. 