Western Union Telegraph Company bought the quadruplex in 1874, financing Edison's dream of opening up an Invention Factory, which he did in Menlo Park, New Jersey. Edison's Menlo Park years were his most productive and profitable. Edison tinkered with Morse's telegraph for years, finally inventing a quadruplex telegraph system. This system served two purposes: It sent two messages over the same wire in opposite directions simultaneously, and saved telegraph companies money by sending multiple messages on less equipment.
Below is a list of Edison patents. Thomas Edison was an inventor who accumulated 2,332 patents worldwide for his inventions. 1,093 of Edison's patents were in the United States, but other patents were approved in countries around the globe. 
Younger Years. Inventor Thomas Alva Edison was born on February 11, 1847, in Milan, Ohio. He was the last of the seven children of Samuel and Nancy Edison. Thomas's father was an exiled political activist from Canada. His mother, an accomplished school teacher, was a major influence in Thomas’ early life. Thomas Edison-Inventor (TV-14; 4:13) The inventor of the light bulb, phonograph, and motion picture, Thomas Edison was granted 400 patents from 1879 to 1886. Though he changed technology forever, not all of his inventions were successful.
Thomas Edison ’s quadruplex telegraph of 1874 is the most famous of a series of inventions of the late 19th century intended to increase the efficiency and profits of telegraph companies. Years later, quadruplex telegraphs were displaced by two new inventions, multiplex telegraphy capable of eight or more simultaneous transmissions, and the use of teletype machines, which did not require their operators to know Morse Code.
Thomas Alva Edison Was Born in 1847 Early Years Year Invention Description 1863 Automatic Telegraph Repeater Edison's first invention at 16. It sent telegraph signals between unmanned stations, allowing almost anyone to easily and precisely translate code at his own speed and convenience. Edison patented a system for electricity distribution in 1880 (U.S patent 239,147), which was essential to capitalize on the invention of the electric lamp. On December 17, 1880, Edison founded the Edison Illuminating Company.
Within a year or two, Western Union and other telegraph companies were using diplex telegraphs on their busiest lines in major cities. In 1874, Thomas Edison invented the first quadruplex telegraph, which was capable of sending two messages simultaneously in each direction. Years later, quadruplex telegraphs were displaced by two new inventions, multiplex telegraphy capable of eight or more simultaneous transmissions, and the use of teletype machines, which did not require their operators to know Morse Code.
In 1877, Thomas A. Edison was asked to update the section on the Telegraph for Appleton's Cyclopaedia of Applied Mechanics. At this point in his career, Edison was a respected telegraph inventor and former telegrapher. He submitted his article in the spring of 1878 when he was 31 and it was published in Appletons' 1880 edition.
Phonograph Catalog/Advertisement I want a phonograph in every home.... The phonograph was developed as a result of Thomas Edison's work on two other inventions, the telegraph and the telephone. In 1877, Edison was working on a machine that would transcribe telegraphic messages through indentations on paper tape, which could later be sent over the telegraph repeatedly. 
Thomas Edison was the inventor of the phonograph. The US inventor of the telegraph was Samuel Morse. Also, Morse didn't invent the telegraph, he just improved on it. His telegraph, built in 1836, allowed the use of small currents across long lines of ordinary wire. Many historians credit Morse's assistant Alfred Vail with designing crucial components of his system
The Quadruplex telegraph is a type of electrical telegraph which allows a total of four separate signals to be transmitted and received on a single wire at the same time (two signals in each direction.) Quadruplex telegraphy thus implements a form of multiplexing. To send two signals in a single direction at the same time, the quadruplex telegraph used one signal to vary the absolute strength or voltage of the signal (amplitude modulation) and the other signal to vary the phase (polarity) of the line (phase modulation), i.e., the direction of current flow imposed upon the wire.