Perhaps the two most basic and visually obvious characteristics of asteroids are their size and shape. The largest known asteroid, as well as the first to be discovered—Ceres—is about 567 miles across, roughly the size of the state of Texas. This sounds very big. 
Most of this ancient space rubble can be found orbiting the sun between Mars and Jupiter within the main asteroid belt. Asteroids range in size from Ceres-the largest at about 950 kilometers (590 miles) in diameter and also identified as a dwarf planet-to bodies that are less than 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) across. The total mass of all the asteroids combined is less than that of Earth's Moon.
They are also known as planetoids or minor planets. In total, the mass of all the asteroids is less than that of Earth's moon. But despite their size, asteroids can be dangerous. Many have hit Earth in the past, and more will crash into our planet in the future. More than 150 asteroids are also known to have a small companion moon, with some having two moons. Binary or double asteroids also exist, in which two asteroids of roughly equal size orbit each other, and triple asteroid systems are known as well.
Asteroids are rocks that are in orbit around the sun. The size of each asteroid varies greatly. The largest one on record was over 500 miles across, while the smallest was just 20 feet across. I'm not sure about most, but a substantial number of them are in  the asteroid belt, a toroidal (doughnut-shaped) region between  the orbits of Mars and Jupiter.
Most asteroids are in the main asteroid belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. The average temperature on the surface of a typical asteroid is -100 degrees F. Size. Asteroids vary greatly in size, from small boulders to hundreds of miles in diameter. The asteroid belt contains more than 200 asteroids larger than 60 miles wide. Scientists estimate that there are more than 750,000 asteroids in the belt wider than 3/5 mile. There are millions of smaller asteroids. The average distance between asteroids in the main belt is about 600,000 miles
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Few asteroids are larger than 300km in diameter. Some are as small as a tenth in kilometers across, though, the largest known asteroid is 940km in diameter. Asteroids are rocks that are in orbit around the sun. The size of  each asteroid varies greatly. The largest one on record was over  500 miles across, while the smallest was … just 20 feet across. Answered.
Asteroids can reach as large as Ceres, which is 940 km (about 583 miles) across. On the other hand, one of the smallest, discovered in 1991 and named 1991 BA, is only about 20 feet (6 meters) across. Nearly all asteroids are irregularly shaped, although a few are nearly spherical, such as Ceres. More than 150 asteroids are also known to have a small companion moon, with some having two moons. Binary or double asteroids also exist, in which two asteroids of roughly equal size orbit each other, and triple asteroid systems are known as well.