Overview of Hypothalamic and Pituitary Hormones. The pituitary gland is often portrayed as the master gland of the body. Such praise is justified in the sense that the anterior and posterior pituitary secrete a battery of hormones that collectively influence all cells and affect virtually all physiologic processes.
For example, the pituitary gland (endocrine gland) secretes thyroid-stimulating hormone, which acts on the target organ, the thyroid gland, to stimulate production of the thyroid hormones T3 and T4. The pituitary then monitors the circulating levels of thyroid hormones.
Prolactin is a single-chain protein hormone closely related to growth hormone. It is secreted by so-called lactotrophs in the anterior pituitary. It is also synthesized and secreted by a broad range of other cells in the body, most prominently various immune cells, the brain and the decidua of the pregnant uterus.
Growth is a very complex process, and requires the coordinated action of several hormones. The major role of growth hormone in stimulating body growth is to stimulate the liver and other tissues to secrete IGF-I. IGF-I stimulates proliferation of chondrocytes (cartilage cells), resulting in bone growth.
These glands produce different types of hormones that evoke a specific response in other cells, tissues, and/or organs located throughout the body. The hormones reach these faraway targets using the blood stream. Like the nervous system, the endocrine system is one of your body’s main communicators.
The endocrine system is a complex communication network made up of specialized cells, glands and hormones. The glands release hormones into the blood or the fluid surrounding cells in response to stimuli from inside and outside the body.
1 Indirect effects are mediated primarily by a insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) , a hormone that is secreted from the liver and other tissues in response to growth hormone. 2  A majority of the growth promoting effects of growth hormone is actually due to IGF-I acting on its target cells.