Inherited trait. Definition. noun, plural: inherited traits. A trait or character that is genetically inherited or passed down from generation to generation. Supplement. Examples of inherited traits: 1  dimples. 2  Hitchhiker's thumb versus regular thumb. 3  tongue rolling.
Heredity is the passing of phenotypic traits from parents to their offspring, either through asexual reproduction or sexual reproduction. This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism. These traits arise from the interaction of its genotype with the environment. As a result, many aspects of an organism's phenotype are not inherited. For example, suntanned skin comes from the interaction between a person's phenotype and sunlight; thus, suntans are not passed on to people's children.
heredity. n, pl-ties. 1. (Biology) the transmission from one generation to another of genetic factors that determine individual characteristics: responsible for the resemblances between parents and offspring. 2. (Biology) the sum total of the inherited factors or their characteristics in an organism. — geneagenetic, adj. genetics. 1. Biology. the science of heredity, studying resemblances and differences in related organisms and the mechanisms which explain these phenomena. 2. the genetic properties and phenomena of an organism. — geneticist, n.
1. the passing on of characters or traits from parents to offspring as a result of the transmission of genes. 2. the genetic characters so transmitted. 3. the characteristics of an individual that are considered to have been passed on by the parents or ancestors. — geneagenetic, adj. genetics. 1. Biology. the science of heredity, studying resemblances and differences in related organisms and the mechanisms which explain these phenomena. 2. the genetic properties and phenomena of an organism. — geneticist, n.
In humans, eye color is an example of an inherited characteristic: an individual might inherit the brown-eye trait from one of the parents. Inherited traits are controlled by genes and the complete set of genes within an organism's genome is called its genotype. These traits arise from the interaction of its genotype with the environment. As a result, many aspects of an organism's phenotype are not inherited. For example, suntanned skin comes from the interaction between a person's phenotype and sunlight; thus, suntans are not passed on to people's children.
Inherited Traits. Inherited traits are perhaps the easiest to understand. They are usually physical characteristics that you inherit from your parents or relatives through genetics. For example, you might inherit your mother's eye shape or color, or you might inherit your grandmother's smile. Height, hair color, eye color, facial features, and more can all be inherited traits. The person you are -- from what you look like to how you behave -- is a combination of genetic and environmental influences. You might get your freckles from your mom, through genetics, but you might also get your sense of humor from her, a learned trait.
The complete set of observable traits of the structure and behavior of an organism is called its phenotype. These traits arise from the interaction of its genotype with the environment. As a result, many aspects of an organism's phenotype are not inherited. For example, suntanned skin comes from the interaction between a person's phenotype and sunlight; thus, suntans are not passed on to people's children.
A trait is a specific characteristic of an organism. Traits can be determined by genes or the environment, or more commonly by interactions between them. The genetic contribution to a trait is called the genotype. The outward expression of the genotype is called the phenotype. 
An inherited trait is a characteristic passed from the male and female parents to the offspring or child through genes.   The genes are the unit on our chromosomes that … are responsible for all our characteristics. The chromosomes consist of thousands of genes. List of Inherited Traits Traits are passed on from parent to child through genes and chromosomes which are made up of DNA. There are only 23 pairs of chromosomes in the human body (1 from each parent) but each of these chromosomes has several thousand genes in them. Some genes are dominant while others are recessive.