About the Organisation. Transnet is a State Owned Company (SOC), wholly owned by the Government of the Republic of South Africa and is the custodian of rail, ports and pipelines. With a vision to become Africa’s world champion in transport and logistics solutions, Transnet SOC Limited has its roots established in resourcefulness and transformation. We proudly operate and control South Africa’s major transport infrastructure.
Transnet SOC Ltd is a large South African rail, port and pipeline company, headquartered in the Carlton Centre in Johannesburg. It was formed as a limited company on 1 April 1990. A majority of the company's stock is owned by the Department of Public Enterprises, or DPE, of the South African government. The company was formed by restructuring into business units the operations of South African Railways and Harbours and other existing operations and products. The business units of Transnet include: 1  Transnet National Ports Authority and Transnet Port Terminals-NPA and SAPO-own and operate the country's main seaports.
South African state-owned freight logistics company Transnet has signed a ground-breaking agreement with the China Development Bank that is expected to yield a loan in the region of US$5-billion (R45-billion) to help finance the country's massive rail infrastructure upgrade programme. 
Tags: Transnet has awarded a supply of fuel tender for R15.5 billion to nine black and female owned companies, for the next five years. It's the single biggest contract for goods and services by the State owned company to date.
​ Transnet Port Terminals (TPT) is a division of Transnet SOC Limited; South Africa’s state-owned freight transport company which owns and operates 16 terminal operations situated across seven South African Ports. 
TRANSNET broke new ground on Thursday when it became the first state-owned company to secure significant financing from China. It signed a R30bn loan agreement over 15 years with the China Development Bank to fund its locomotive build programme. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown said the loan was a new day in Transnet’s history. This state-owned company is starting an association with the China Development Bank, which I am sure will open the door for other state-owned companies to emulate, she said.
In December 2013, Transnet appointed nine black-owned companies to supply it with fuel over the following five years in a $1.5 billion deal aimed at promoting the South African government’s black economic empowerment drive. The company was formed by restructuring into business units the operations of South African Railways and Harbours and other existing operations and products. The business units of Transnet include: 1  Transnet National Ports Authority and Transnet Port Terminals-NPA and SAPO-own and operate the country's main seaports.
Transnet, as a State Owned Company, recognises this and has consequently initiated the establishment of an Enterprise Development Hub where small businesses will have easy access to products and services offered by both Provincial and National Economic Development Institutions under the same roof. This pilot phase of the Transnet Enterprise Development Hub will be based at the Transnet Head office at Carlton Centre (Level 200) in Johannesburg. Depending on its success, Transnet intends on establishing similar Hubs across the country starting mainly with Government’s priority provinces.
Transnet. Transnet is a public company wholly-owned by government. It is the largest and most crucial part of the freight logistics chain that delivers goods to each and every South African. South African Express. South African Express was founded on the eve of the new democratic South Africa on 24 April 1994