Division Sales Manager Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Division Sales Manager is $83,546 per year. A skill in Team Leadership is associated with high pay for this job. Pay for this job rises steadily for more experienced workers, but goes down noticeably for employees with more than 20 years' experience. Division sales managers are high-level managers who typically supervise all aspects of a sales team and the lower-level sales managers who organize them.
Average Division Manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 42% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
A Division General Manager earns an average salary of $105,533 per year. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Strategic Planning, Leadership, and Team Leadership. A division general manager should have at least a high school diploma, and they may potentially need a bachelor’s degree in construction management, business, or a mechanical or electrical career field. Also, at least five years in a managerial role as a foreman or manager is preferred.
Hotel Rooms Division Manager Salary. Hotel Rooms Division Manager average salary is $59,090, median salary is $60,000 with a salary range from $54,450 to $61,000. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Hotel Rooms Division Manager salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Average Operations Manager Salaries. The average salary for operations manager jobs is $60,000. Average operations manager salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term operations manager anywhere in the job listing.
(United States). A Division General Manager earns an average salary of $105,533 per year. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Strategic Planning, Leadership, and Team Leadership. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. A division general manager should have at least a high school diploma, and they may potentially need a bachelor’s degree in construction management, business, or a mechanical or electrical career field. Also, at least five years in a managerial role as a foreman or manager is preferred.
Division Manager Salary. Division Manager average salary is $78,873, median salary is $75,000 with a salary range from $25,000 to $175,000. Division Manager salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Division Manager salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly
Hotel Rooms Division Manager salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Hotel Rooms Division Manager salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Average Medical Office Manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 14% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Sales category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Sales jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K.