Best Answer: Paramecia are always referred to by their genus name,Paramecium. All of the one-celled animals are considered to be Protozoa which means first animals. I taught biology for 35 names and have never heard of such a thing as a common name. Like wise,Amoebae are also called by their genus name,Amoeba. Also Paramecium aurelia isn't a particular specis of paramecium, but rather a complex of many species, and so it is unlikely that that whole complex would have a common name. http://www.haydnallbutt.com.au/files/par...
Paramecium caudatum is a species of unicellular organisms belonging to the genus Paramecium of the phylum Ciliophora. They can reach 0.25mm in length and are covered with minute hair-like organelles called cilia. The cilia are used in locomotion and feeding. 
Euglena are small organisms in the Protist Kingdom. Euglena gracilis is just one of many species of Euglena. They do not have common names like birds or trees, so we have to refer to them by their scientific name. Euglena are interesting because they are a sort of combination of plant and animal. They can make their own food like a plant, but they can also eat other things, like an animal. They can also swim and move
Paramecium aurelia don't appear to have a common name: http://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/Si... But paramecia in general are often known as lady slippers, anecdotally, though I have seen no official description that this is the case. Also Paramecium aurelia isn't a particular specis of paramecium, but rather a complex of many species, and so it is unlikely that that whole complex would have a common name. http://www.haydnallbutt.com.au/files/par...
Answer by Ibjjammin. Confidence votes 54. There are many different scientific names for paramecium's one of which is Paramecium pentaurelia. This paramecium, like many others has a shoe-like shape and moves by waving it's cilia(tiny oar-like hairs). A paramecium is a single celled organism that falls into the protist group Ciliophora. It has an oval shaped body & a reddish color. It reproduces by binary fission which is b … asically splitting into 2; creating an identical copy of the original.
A paramecium is a small one celled (unicellular) living organism that can move, digest food, and reproduce. They belong to the kingdom of Protista, which is a group (family) of similar living micro-organisms. Micro-organism means they are a very small living cell. Three of them are Paramecium aurelia, Paramecium bursaria, and the Paramecium caudatum. Notice that the first part of the name (Genus) is capitalized and the second (Species) name is not. That is the standard way to write the names.
The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna is the genus. A paramecium is a single celled organism that falls into the protist group Ciliophora. It has an oval shaped body & a reddish color. It reproduces by binary fission which is b … asically splitting into 2; creating an identical copy of the original.
The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna is the genus.
Image courtesy: BioMEDIA ASSOCIATES The paramecium, genus of protozoa of the phylum Ciliophora, is often called slipper animalcules because of their slipper-like shape. Paramecia are unicellular organisms usually less than 0.25 mm (0.01 in) in length and covered with minute hair-like projections called cilia. Three of them are Paramecium aurelia, Paramecium bursaria, and the Paramecium caudatum. Notice that the first part of the name (Genus) is capitalized and the second (Species) name is not. That is the standard way to write the names.