They will lay eggs, provided that they are healthy, well fed, and mature. Of course, you do not need a tom turkey to get eggs. Turkeys are much better layers in the spring/summer than in the fall and winter. Yours might not lay till spring, but some lay a few eggs in the fall. Old, fat, gray-haired EMT guy. Raised birds for 60 years. I don't name 'em, and don't dwell over any that di
Quote: Originally Posted by Boggy Bottom Bantams. average of 1 every other day, younger hens often will lay a spert of 1 a day for a few days in a row, at least mine do, after the first year, they all tend to be 1 every other day, except royal palms, those things are egg making machines. I sell or hatch all of mine and sell them as day old poults. Hey there again! So how often will my new turkeys lay? Just got them yesterday. And someone told me before that turkey eggs do not scramble well. Is that true?
Cecil replies: Barnyard economics, babe. Turkeys don't lay that many eggs, and the ones they do lay are used to produce more turkeys. The average egg-laying chicken lays 300 or so eggs per year, while the average turkey produces only 100 to 120. Chickens come into production at 19 to 20 weeks of age, but turkeys don't get cranking until 32 weeks. Turkeys are also much larger, averaging 16 to 17 pounds compared to 3.5 pounds for chickens.
Retired in 2005, breeding Araucana chickens. The average turkey will lay 110 to 115 eggs in a 28/30 week period. The gobbler's sperm is stored in the hen's oviduct, so that fertilized eggs may be laid up to four weeks after mating. One mating is usually sufficient to fertilize an entire clutch. 
Because they’re expensive. Chicken hens are egg-laying dynamos, dropping one almost every day, while a turkey produces only about two per week. Chickens begin laying eggs at about five months of age, but turkeys don’t have their first cycle until more than two months later. Commercial egg producers typically, although controversially, allocate less than 50 square inches of space to a hen. Armadillos transmit the pathogen to humans, but turkey eggs do not.) Turkey eggs contain most of the same nutrients as chicken eggs but are richer. The average turkey egg is 50 percent larger than a chicken egg, but contains nearly twice as many calories and grams of fat and four times as much cholesterol.
Turkeys don't lay as many eggs as chickens and the eggs are much bigger than chicken eggs, It would not be practical from a farmers point of view to raise turkeys for the eggs because they require more feed than chickens. I have never eaten turkey eggs but I have eaten duck, goose and guinea eggs. 
The average turkey will lay 110 to 115 eggs in a 28/30 week period.   The gobbler's sperm is stored in the hen's oviduct, so that fertilized eggs may be laid up to fo … ur weeks after mating. One mating is usually sufficient to fertilize an entire clutch. Roughly 1000 eggs The average turkey will lay between 100 and 120 eggs per year and can produce eggs for up to 10 years if well cared for. Production of eggs drops as … the turkey ages. 8 people found this useful.
Turkeys don't lay eggs as often as chickens, the eggs are incredibly rich, and often times can't be eaten raw, as in, if you beat a chicken egg with sugar it's fine, but that isn't the case with turkey eggs. 
Confidence votes 236. Turkeys lay from early spring to early summer, a span of about 4 months. During that time the turkey will lay 12-18 eggs and then sit on them. If you collect their eggs they will continue to lay, eventually producing an average of 1 egg every 2 days for a possible total of 80-100 eggs. Roughly 1000 eggs The average turkey will lay between 100 and 120 eggs per year and can produce eggs for up to 10 years if well cared for. Production of eggs drops as … the turkey ages. 8 people found this useful.