This is a list of cities and towns in the Russian Far East, grouped by federal subject and sorted by population. Administrative centers of federal subjects are listed in bold text. All population figures are official results of the Russian Census (2002) . 
Largest Russian Citiies. Moscow is the largest city in Russia with a population of 11.5 million people, which also makes it the sixth largest city in the world. Saint Petersburg is the second largest Russian city, with 4.8 million people, making it the 40th largest city in the world. 
Russia’s second-largest city, with a population of about five million, is St. Petersburg. Located on the Baltic Sea, it is western Russia’s leading port city. The city was renamed Petrograd (1914–24) and Leningrad (1924–91) but today is often called Petersburg, or just “Peter” for short. East of the Urals, in south-central Russia, is Russia’s Eastern Frontier, a region of planned cities, industrial plants, and raw-material processing centers. The population is centered in two zones here: the Kuznetsk Basin (or Kuzbas, for short) and the Lake Baikal region.
The largest Russian cities with the population greater than 1 million are Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Novosibirsk, Yekaterinburg, Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, Kazan, Omsk, Chelyabinsk, Rostov-on-Don, Ufa and Volgograd. Continental climate is prevalent in European and Asian Russia. Location. Russia is located in the Eastern Europe and Northern Asia. The territory of Russia lies between latitudes 41 degrees north and 82 degrees north, and longitudes 19 degrees east and 169 degrees west. Russia is the largest country in the world in terms of territory
Understand [edit]. The Russian Far East is extraordinarily far from Russia's major population centers in Europe and is usually visited separately, unless by the Trans-Siberian Railway. The largest city in the region, Vladivostok, is a full seven time zones away from Moscow, with 9,300 km of railroad between them. The Far East is very different from popular conceptions of Russia—it is very mountainous and has an often spectacular Pacific coastline. The Russian Far East borders Mongolia and China to the south, North Korea and Japan to the southeast, and Alaska to the northeast, and there is transport available to all of them from nearby regions in the Far East.
Largest Cities in the Russian Far East. Although there are no cities with population over 1 million in the Far-Eastern Russia, you may want to know that this is the most remote part of Russia (the center is in Moscow way to the west). The two largest cities still have over half a million people living in them: These cities are the largest in the Russian Far East and tourists commonly choose them as their destination. As you can see on the map below, the Russian Far East occupies a fairly large territory of the Russian Federation. It is further divided into nine administrative divisions.
It is a federal semi-presidential republic. At 17,075,400 square kilometres (6,592,800 sq mi), Russia is the largest country in the world, covering more than one-eighth of the Earth's inhabited land area. Russia is also the world's ninth most populous country with nearly 144 million people in November 2014. 
Dal’niy Vostok Rossii; [ˈdalʲnʲɪj vɐˈstok rɐˈsʲiɪ]) is the Russian part of the Far East, i.e. the extreme east parts of Russia, between Lake Baikal in Eastern Siberia and the Pacific Ocean. 