Thawing To thaw a frozen spiral ham it is best to plan ahead and allow the ham to thaw for three days in your refrigerator. If time does not allow, you may wish to leave the ham at room temperature or even immerse a tightly packaged ham in cool water to hasten the thawing time. If you plan on keeping a spiral ham more than seven days before it is served, you must freeze the ham to maintain its quality. Freezing A spiral ham will freeze well and may be kept frozen for up to 12 weeks without loss of flavor.
your spiral ham probably says do not freeze because there might be a glaze that has come with it. also, hams, like most meats, are succeptible to freezer burn. if buying a ham … , it is best to teat right away. Ham freezes very well.But tends to have lots of … moisture, when you unthaw it.That is contributed to the salt content.You can just squeeze it gently;to remove excess water.Or reheat in the oven with out covering ,and the water will be drawn out. + 149 others found this useful.
Ham can be frozen 4-6 months. Ham freezes very well.But tends to have lots of … moisture, when you unthaw it.That is contributed to the salt content.You can just squeeze it gently;to remove excess water.Or reheat in the oven with out covering ,and the water will be drawn out. + 149 others found this useful. A precooked ham does not have to be cooked, but will taste better if you heat it thoroughly to an internal temperature … of 140°F (60°C) or so.   Place the ham in a 325°F oven (163°C). It will take 12 to 15 minutes per pound for a whole or boneless ham and 18 to 20 minutes per pound for a half ham.
Cooked and smoked ham take center stage on many holiday dinner tables. If you have leftovers, you can easily store ham in the refrigerator for up to a week. However, if you have a lot, or even a whole cooked or smoked ham left untouched, you can keep it in the freezer for longer storage. Cut up the smoked or cooked ham into small portions. Slice the entire ham, dice it up for soups or casseroles, or break it into bite-sized chunks -- all depending on how you wish to eat the ham later. Step 2. Place your sliced or cut-up ham into airtight freezer bags. Divide the ham among several bags based on how much you plan to use at one time and how you plan to use it. Label the bags with the date you put them in the freezer, using a permanent marker
You can freeze cooked ham. Here is a good trick. You can slice the ham up into serving slices (or thinner slices for sandwiches) and divide the pieces into packages for several meals or layer the slices with a plastic wrap between them and then take out how ever many you want, without them sticking together. A precooked ham does not have to be cooked, but will taste better if you heat it thoroughly to an internal temperature … of 140°F (60°C) or so.   Place the ham in a 325°F oven (163°C). It will take 12 to 15 minutes per pound for a whole or boneless ham and 18 to 20 minutes per pound for a half ham.
That way you can pull some out for a sandwich without having to defrost half a ham. Or you can portion out just enough to add to your favorite soup. As for how long the ham lasts in the freezer, I would say after 6 months, you would notice a decrease in the quality of the ham, so I would try to use it before then. I froze my ham bone the last time I made a ham. I pulled it out of the freezer a couple months later. I threw it into a batch of split peas. Answer: Yes you can. In fact I have had some pretty good results with freezing ham. To prevent any problems with freezer burn, I recommend wrapping the ham in heavy duty aluminum foil and then placing it in a gallon sized or quart size sealable plastic bag. Write the day you froze the ham on the outside of the bag.
Be sure to date the bag. I've left hams in the freezer for up to a year. When you take that ham out, you can thaw it for 4 hours or so on the counter, then let it finish thawing in the fridge. I have noticed that those spiral ham slices can shrink a little when the ham thaws. So, I'd use it within 3 months. RE: Spiral ham that is still in store wrapper, can I freeze it? I bought an extra honey baked spiral ham for Christmas dinner. Well, we had enough with the 1st one we cooked and I haven&#39;t even opened it up, it&#39;s still in the store wrapper.
Ham can be frozen 4-6 months. Ham freezes very well.But tends to have lots of … moisture, when you unthaw it.That is contributed to the salt content.You can just squeeze it gently;to remove excess water.Or reheat in the oven with out covering ,and the water will be drawn out. + 149 others found this useful.