Though many types of water filters and purification systems are available, only certain systems will remove sodium from drinking water. Activated carbon filters, which are used in the carafe-style and faucet-mounted filters that make up a significant portion of the retail filter market, do not filter sodium and other impurities, such as arsenic.
Most people do not need to remove sodium and chloride from their home’s water supply for health reasons, but if you have concerns about these substances in your water, call Skillings & Sons for a consultation. Salt is a common substance that can leach into ground water and drinking supplies from a variety of places. When salt dissolves in water, it breaks up into positively-and negatively-charged sodium and chloride ions. The amount of sodium added is based on the water’s hardness level – the more hardness, the more sodium is needed to treat the water. There are a number of ways to remove sodium and chloride from your home water supply.
Types. You have several options for filtering salt from your drinking water. Reverse osmosis systems filter water by forcing the water through a semi-permeable membrane. It can remove organic and inorganic compounds as well. Ion exchange systems swap sodium and other chemicals for other neutral molecules. Another option is distillation
Clean Drinking Water Filters for Your Home. Whether you just want to improve the taste of your water or if you want to remove certain impurities such as sodium, chlorine, lead, arsenic or any other specific contaminant. We have the drinking water filter to fit your needs. The faucet mount drinking water filter removes taste, odor, smells, chlorine, chemicals and many other impurities to give you great tasting water right from your tap.
Sodium can be removed with the hydrogen form cation exchanger portion of a deionizer. Reverse osmosis will reduce sodium by 94 - 98%. Distillation will also remove sodium. A major source of sodium in natural waters is from the weathering of feldspars, evaporates and clay. The American Heart Association has recommended a maximum sodium level of 20 mg/i in drinking water for patients with hypertension or cardiovascular disease.
Add to that the amount added by the softener, and you'll have a general idea of the amount of sodium you'll be consuming from your drinking water. FYI: Filters don't remove sodium from water, but reverse osmosis units do. Note: If you're trying to make a more exact determination of the sodium added by a softener, here are some facts to help. Ion exchange people usually express sodium as grains per gallon and as calcium carbonate (CaCO 3).
The sodium cartridge contains a rechargeable ion exchange resin that exchanges sodium (and other minerals) for potassium, an essential, beneficial mineral lacking in most diets. Also acts as a water softener. The second cartridge is our 12,000 gallon capacity KDF/GAC filter. This filter system includes the KDF/GAC cartridge and adds a special cartridge that removes sodium from the water-great for people watching their sodium intake. Also works as a water softener for hard water.
Reverse Osmosis Filters. These systems are plumbed-in with a permanent connection to an existing water pipe. Water is filtered and dispensed through the sink faucet. Reverse osmosis works by using pressure to force water through a membrane filter that removes everything but water molecules. A carbon pre-filter is used to trap organic material and chlorine, which would otherwise damage the membrane. Activated carbon filters, which are used in the carafe-style and faucet-mounted filters that make up a significant portion of the retail filter market, do not filter sodium and other impurities, such as arsenic.
If you have high blood pressure or are at risk, you may be concerned about the sodium in your drinking water. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that one in three American adults has high blood pressure. Reverse osmosis systems filter water by forcing the water through a semi-permeable membrane. It can remove organic and inorganic compounds as well. Ion exchange systems swap sodium and other chemicals for other neutral molecules.
People often ask us if they should remove sodium and chloride from their water. While your water is likely to have a low amount of these substances, there are cases where the level of sodium and chloride can affect taste, or needs to be lowered because of a doctor-prescribed no-sodium diet. The amount of sodium added is based on the water’s hardness level – the more hardness, the more sodium is needed to treat the water. There are a number of ways to remove sodium and chloride from your home water supply.