The glomerulus is a tuft of small blood vessels called capillaries located within Bowman's capsule within the kidney. Between the capillaries and Bowman's capsule lies mesangium. Blood enters the capillaries of the glomerulus by a single arteriole called an afferent arteriole and leaves by an efferent arteriole.
Blood leaving the glomerulus flows into the efferent arteriole. Usually an arteriole flows into a venule. But in this case the efferent arteriole flows into more capillaries, the peritubular capillaries, and, in juxtamedullary neurons (see below), the vasa recta.
Remember that the afferent arteriole brings blood to the glomerulus and the efferent arteriole takes blood away from the glomerulus. The efferent arterioles either 1) carry blood to capillaries in the medulla (Vasa recta) or 2) form anastomotic capillaries in the cortex (peritubular plexus).
The blood plasma is filtered through the capillaries of the glomerulus into the capsule. The Bowman's capsule empties the filtrate into the proximal tubule that is also part of the nephron. A glomerulus receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
In the Bowman's capsule, the artery splits up into a network of capillaries called the glomerulus. These capillaries join into a single vessel again as they leave the capsule, and then split into a second set of capillaries that are wrapped around the renal tubule. The blood leaves the tubule in the renal vein.
(The word renal refers to kidney.) Blood leaving the kidney enters the major vein, the vena cava, via the renal vein. Also connecting to the kidney is a third tube, the ureter, which conducts urine to the urinary bladder for temporary storage. Location and gross anatomy of the human kidneys.
Filtration occurs in a tuft of capillaries called the glomerulus. The lining of the glomerulus is leaky enough to allow blood pressure to force water, ions, and small molecules out while retaining cells and very large molecules in the blood.
A glomerulus is a network (as a tuft) of capillaries located at the beginning of a nephron in the kidney. It serves as the first stage in the filtering process of the blood carried out by the nephron in its formation of urine. The glomerulus is surrounded by a cup-like sac known as Bowman's capsule.
The efferent arteriole carries blood away from the glomerulus. Because it has a smaller diameter than the afferent arteriole, it creates some resistance to blood flow, producing the back-up of blood in the glomerulus which creates higher pressure in the glomerular cavity.