Weymouth /ˈweɪməθ/ is a seaside town in Dorset, England, situated on a sheltered bay at the mouth of the River Wey on the English Channel coast. The town is 11 kilometres (7 mi) south of Dorchester and 8 kilometres (5 mi) north of the Isle of Portland. The town's population is 52,323 (2011). The town is the largest settlement in Dorset following the unitary authorities of Bournemouth and Poole. On the shores of Portland Harbour, 3 kilometres (2 mi) south of Wyke Regis, is Weymouth and Portland National Sailing Academy, where the sailing events of the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games were based.
Situated approximately halfway along the Jurassic Coast, Weymouth is a gateway town to the UNESCO World Heritage Site, which includes 155 kilometres (96 mi) of the Dorset and east Devon coast that is important for its geology and landforms. On the shores of Portland Harbour, 3 kilometres (2 mi) south of Wyke Regis, is Weymouth and Portland National Sailing Academy, where the sailing events of the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games were based.
The station was named Weymouth, although some timetables showed it as Weymouth Town. Branches to Portland and Weymouth Quay (both opened in 1865) ran from Weymouth Junction, just north of the station. The original station buildings were designed by TH Bertram and constructed in timber with a glazed overall roof across the tracks; this was removed after WW2.
While the sands and safe water of Weymouth beach and bay are some of the finest in Great Britain and Europe. Whether you’re into climbing or windsurfing, kite surfing or water skiing, for a real adrenaline rush Weymouth and Portland has some of the greatest activities on offer. Haven Holidays Weymouth Bay is close to a sandy beaches, which Weymouth is famous for, it makes for a great holiday fro you and your family with plenty of little coves and some great seaside towns plus attractions like the Sealife centre.
By train. The nearest train and bus station is located in Weymouth, which is about 3 miles from the Park. To plan your train journey to and from Weymouth Bay, please search using the official National Rail Enquiries online planner and timetable. Alternatively, call National Rail Enquiries helpline on 0845 748 4950. 
We have just returned from a weeks holiday in a caravan at Weymouth Bay holiday camp in Dorset. I would like to start by congratulating everyone there on the cleanliness and beauty of the whole site! Everyone we spoke to was so friendly and helpful. It takes about 10 minutes in the car to get to the pier end. It would be a very long walk. Parking is very expensive (£7 for 6 hours)in Weymouth so you are probably better off getting the bus or park and ride. Beautiful beach. When it rained we used the swimming pools which were perfect.
Bowleaze Cove. Bowleaze Cove. Bowleaze Cove lies just to the East of Weymouth, yet within Weymouth Bay and can be walked to around the bay via Preston Beach. It is situated within the parish of Preston, which is known for the Roman relics discovered over the years
Weymouth Beach is a three mile beach and is just minutes from the town centre and historic harbour. 