1 Choose healthier fats. 2  Saturated fats, found primarily in red meat and dairy products, raise your total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, the bad cholesterol. 3  As a rule, you should get less than 7 percent of your daily calories from saturated fat.
1 A diet high in cholesterol, saturated fats, and trans fats can raise blood cholesterol levels and put you at risk for heart disease, according to the American Heart Association. 2  Many foods that come from animals — like meat and dairy products — contain saturated fats, while baked goods and fast foods pack trans fats.
Except for your morning wheat bran, no food is more fiber-rich than beans. And beans are especially high in cholesterol-lowering soluble fiber. Eating a cup of any type of beans a day—particularly kidney, navy, pinto, black, chickpea, or butter beans—can lower cholesterol by as much as 10% in 6 weeks.
1 Eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids. 2  Omega-3 fatty acids don't affect LDL cholesterol. 3  They have other heart benefits, such as helping to increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL, or good) cholesterol, reducing your triglycerides, a type of fat in your blood, and reducing blood pressure.
Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL
Trans fats affect cholesterol levels by increasing the bad cholesterol and lowering the good cholesterol. This bad combination increases the risk of heart attacks. Trans fats can be found in fried foods and many commercial products, such as cookies, crackers and snack cakes.
Reduce saturated fat to no more than 7% of total calories, and cholesterol to no more than 200 milligrams per day. Saturated fat is likely to raise blood cholesterol more than any other food in your diet (except for, perhaps, trans fats, which are slowly being phased out of many foods).