1 Lecithin adds a nice creamy flavor. 2  Lecithin can be soy or sunflower based. 3  The majority of lecithin is extracted from soy beans meaning it is both vegetarian and vegan friendly. 4  Use it in recipes to replace some of the fat content, and it will also improve the moisture and texture of your recipes. 
Lecithin is found in egg yolks, the tissues and organs of many animals, and some vegetables such as soybeans, peanuts, and corn. Lecithin is commonly used in foods that are high in fats and oils in order to make dissimilar substances, such as oil and water, blend and/or stay blended. We list it as typically vegetarian. 
Lecithin is a fat that is essential in the cells of the body. It can be found in many foods, including soybeans and egg yolks. Lecithin is taken as a medicine and is also used in the manufacturing of medicines. Lecithin is used for treating memory disorders such as dementia and Alzheimer ’s disease. It is also used for treating gallbladder disease, liver disease, certain types of depression, high cholesterol, anxiety, and a skin disease called eczema. Some people apply lecithin to the skin as a moisturizer.
1 Soy lecithin is extracted from soybeans either mechanically or chemically using hexane. 2  It is a byproduct of soybean oil production. 3  Some people use it as a supplement because of it’s high choline content. 4  Choline is a micronutrient that is good for heart health and brain development. VEGAN DAILY FACTOIDS: Soy Lecithin. 1  Lecithins are oily substances that occur naturally in plants (soybeans) and animals (egg yolks). 2  Soy lecithin is extracted from soybeans either mechanically or chemically using hexane. 3  It is a byproduct of soybean oil production
Posts: 1. Whereas soya lecithin is vegan, and non-vegan lecithin as an added ingredient in food is normally either from soya or hen's eggs, lecithin itself is everywhere. It's in the cell membranes of all true plant and animal cells. Posts: 158. Lecithin exists naturally in only soy and eggs. If you have something that says soy lecithin, then it is vegan. If it just says lecithin then it's safe to say that it's from an egg.
1 Lecithins are oily substances that occur naturally in plants (soybeans) and animals (egg yolks). 2  Soy lecithin is extracted from soybeans either mechanically or chemically using hexane. 3  It is a byproduct of soybean oil production. 4  Some people use it as a supplement because of it’s high choline content. VEGAN DAILY FACTOIDS: Soy Lecithin. 1  Lecithins are oily substances that occur naturally in plants (soybeans) and animals (egg yolks). 2  Soy lecithin is extracted from soybeans either mechanically or chemically using hexane. 3  It is a byproduct of soybean oil production
Some lecithin is derived from soy bean oil, and some is derived from animal fat. Yes. Lecithin is made from soy, as far as I know.   Some lecithin is derived from soy bean oil, and some is derived from animal fat.. Best to go to a natural health/ vegeta … rian store.
Non-Soy Lecithins. In their pure forms, egg yolk and other animal lecithins do not contain soy products. Other non-soy sources of lecithin are vegetable oils, including corn and sunflower oils. Similar to soy lecithin, these lecithins are made from a mixture of natural lipids, phospholipids and vegetable oil
Some lecithin is derived from soy bean oil, and some is derived from animal fat. A lot is derived from egg. Best to go to a vegetarian store which stocks soy lecithin. + 7 others found this useful. 