As the owner of one of Zopo’s first line of phones and now the owner of the ZP980, I can state that the phones are in fact of good build quality. Everything positive and Negative mentioned in the above review are fair comments about this model…in essence, the ZP980 is a powerhouse of a phone for its price point. Using the phone. We made sure to use the Zopo ZP980 for a couple of weeks before jotting down our impressions and feeling about it. The 5-inch screen is bigger than we are used to but it’s really made a difference for gaming, web browsing and certain apps where information struggles to fit on one screen.
ZOPO Official. Yesterday at 2:52am ·. ‪#‎ZOPO‬ 's brand ambassador Jorge Lorenzo was born in 1987, May 4th. On that day, the song (I Just) Died in Your Arms from Cutting Crew was at the top of the charts in the USA. Check the comment below and chill for a bit with an absolute classic from the 80's... ‪#‎LorenzoFacts‬ ‪#‎ZopoFun‬. Teaser of ZOPO TV spot featuring brand ambassador and two-time MotoGP World Champion Jorge Lorenzo. For more info, check out our: W E B S I T E: http://www.zopomobile.com F A C E B O O K: https://facebook.com/ZopoOfficial T W I T T E R: https://twitter.com/ ...
ZOPO is a famous smart cell phone brand in China which is engaged in researching, designing, producing, and selling ZOPO mobile phones. Its main products areZOPO ZP990,ZOPO C3, ZOPO C2, ZP980, ZP500 and ZP810. 
Written by Karthekayan Iyer | Updated: September 14, 2015 2:59 pm. Almost every smartphone maker wants to grab a slice of the booming Indian market. The latest in the long list of little known manufacturers is the Chinese brand Zopo which has entered India with its first offering, Speed 7. Zopo Speed 7. The Zopo Speed 7 enters a space that is already dominated by the likes of Lenovo K3 Note, Yu Yureka Plus and Panasonic Eluga Icon. The brand name is something I didn’t really like. The removable back of the device is plastic and has a matte texture which makes it slippery. Could be difficult to hold this during winters. The battery on the Speed 7 didn’t last me a work day even with moderate usage.
#7 best Chinese smartphone brands: Elephone. Elephone isn’t one of the biggest brands at all, and they don’t make the best products either. They aim on cheap phones with good specifications Until now it seems anyway, because their latest models look stunning. #5 best Chinese smartphone brands: OnePlus. We can’t think of a brand that had a smarter way of marketing itself. The ‘invite’ system. It worked for them and it worked well. They made sure that you could only get an OnePlus with an invite, and that made people want the phone.
However, Zopo’s phone is a bit pricier than Lenovo’s and the difference comes when we take a look at the screen. The ZP980’s display really is quite wonderful. It is a spacious 5-inch IPS touchscreen that has a full HD super retina display packing in 1920×1080 pixels. Using the phone. We made sure to use the Zopo ZP980 for a couple of weeks before jotting down our impressions and feeling about it. The 5-inch screen is bigger than we are used to but it’s really made a difference for gaming, web browsing and certain apps where information struggles to fit on one screen.
#2 best Chinese smartphone brands: Huawei. Even though Huawei is one of the biggest manufacturers of smartphones in China they had to give their number one position away to a fairly young brand. The brand is popular all around the globe and it seems that the end is not near at all. #5 best Chinese smartphone brands: OnePlus. We can’t think of a brand that had a smarter way of marketing itself. The ‘invite’ system. It worked for them and it worked well. They made sure that you could only get an OnePlus with an invite, and that made people want the phone.
Display Rating: A+. The ZP998 has a 5.5 inch screen, placing it on the larger end of smartphone screens. Because its screen is over 5.3 inches, this phone also qualifies as a phablet. This also means that for most users, the phone will be difficult to use with one hand when compared to phones with smaller screens. The screen has a resolution of 1,920 pixels by 1,080 pixels, making it a 1080p HD screen. With a weight of 169 grams, it's somewhat heavier than average for a smartphone its size. This device's battery is larger than typical for its size, which also gives it some extra weight. Life Sizer lets you see the real size of the ZP998 by calibrating your screen to a credit card.
#10 best Chinese smartphone brands: UMI. UMI has come with their latest flagship in the end of 2014. It was the UMI zero which is a high end, metal made smartphone with good specifications. They made sure everything about this smartphone was right, and they did deliver a great product. #5 best Chinese smartphone brands: OnePlus. We can’t think of a brand that had a smarter way of marketing itself. The ‘invite’ system. It worked for them and it worked well. They made sure that you could only get an OnePlus with an invite, and that made people want the phone.
As you’d expect from a high-spec phone like this, the Zopo ZP980 comes running Android Jelly Bean 4.2.1. We’ve gone over what we think of this operating system many times before and Zopo have been good enough to leave us with a largely-untouched version of the stock ROM. Using the phone. We made sure to use the Zopo ZP980 for a couple of weeks before jotting down our impressions and feeling about it. The 5-inch screen is bigger than we are used to but it’s really made a difference for gaming, web browsing and certain apps where information struggles to fit on one screen.