Price: US$ 59.95. The Schengen Visa Application Guide is a step-by-step guide to help you file your own Schengen Visa application without the use of a travel agent or immigration lawyer. Every important aspect of the Schengen Visa process is included in the application guide. 1  Overview of the Schengen Treaty
If you are looking to visit several Schengen countries, you will need to apply for a visa with the embassy or the consulate of the country that is your main destination. Download and print off your Schengen visa application form here in different languages free of charge: English version. French version. Spanish version. Chinese version. Before making your way to the embassy or the consulate of the European Schengen country you need, please make sure you are carrying: 1  A valid national passport.
If you don't need a visa for the Schengen country of your main destination or first point of entry, you may require a visa for other Schengen countries you may wish to visit. You need to apply with the embassy/consulate of the first country that requires you have a visa. If the Schengen country responsible for issuing the Schengen visa does not have any embassy/consulate in a third country where you need to apply, the visa may be issued by representation by the embassy/consulate of the country that represents the interests of the country responsible in a particular third country.
If you are visiting only one Schengen country, you need to apply at the embassy/consulate of that particular country. If you intend to visit several Schengen countries, you must apply for a visa at the embassy/consulate of the country which is your main destination. To determine your main destination, find out the country within the Schengen territory where you are going to spend the most number of nights. If the Schengen country responsible for issuing the Schengen visa does not have any embassy/consulate in a third country where you need to apply, the visa may be issued by representation by the embassy/consulate of the country that represents the interests of the country responsible in a particular third country.
1 If you intend to visit several Schengen countries, you must apply for a visa at the Consulate of the country which is your main destination (where you will be staying most of the days). 2  When a visa is granted it allows travel to all countries in the Schengen area. 1 If you intend to stay in the Schengen area for over 90 days you must apply for a residence permit, not a Schengen visa. 2  Instructions are on the respective consulate's homepage. 3  United States citizens can vacation in the Schengen area for up to 90 days without a visa.
A Schengen visa allows the holder to travel freely within the Schengen countries for a maximum stay of up to 90 days in a 6 month period. The first step in the application process is to Apply the Schengen Application Guide. Traveling on a Schengen Visa means that the visa holder can travel to any (or all) member countries using one single visa, thus avoiding the hassle and expense of obtaining individual visas for each country. This is particularly beneficial for persons who wish to visit several European countries on the same trip.
NOTE: If you do not need a visa for the Schengen country of your main destination or first point of entry, please note that you may require a visa for other Schengen countries you wish to visit. You should then apply with the Embassy or Consulate of the country which does require a visa. 
Presently, 25 EU countries are part of the European Schengen Area: Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, plus Norway, Iceland and Switzerland. Download and print off your Schengen visa application form here in different languages free of charge: English version. French version. Spanish version. Chinese version. Before making your way to the embassy or the consulate of the European Schengen country you need, please make sure you are carrying: 1  A valid national passport.
Download the application. The Schengen Visa application form is the same in every country. However, you should be able to download it from the government website of the country you are applying for the visa in. Therefore, if you plan to apply in France, you can download it from France's government website. 