1 You may also request an Absentee Ballot by sending a letter to your county board of elections. 2  The letter must be received by your county board no earlier than 30 days and no later than seven days before the election. 3  The letter must contain the following information:
There are three ways you can request an absentee ballot. 1  Online if you have a Maryland’s driver’s license or MVA-issued ID card. 2  Complete and return one of the forms below. 3  Read the instructions, enter the required information, print the form, sign it, and return it to your local board of elections.
1 Mail Voting: A ballot is automatically mailed to every eligible voter (no request or application is necessary), and the state does not use traditional precinct poll sites that offer in-person voting on Election Day. 2  Three states use mail voting.
If the form is submitted by mail, the form must be received by the County Recorder no later than 5 days after the last day to register to vote in that election or be postmarked 29 days or more before an election and received by the County Recorder by 7pm election day.
1 Early Voting: In 33 states and the District of Columbia, any qualified voter may cast a ballot in person during a designated period prior to Election Day. 2  No excuse or justification is required. 3  Absentee Voting: All states will mail an absentee ballot to certain voters who request one.
If you download your ballot from the State's website, you can print the blank ballot and mark your ballot by hand. Do not sign your name or make any other mark on your ballot. Write-in voting is only allowed in general elections.
You do not have to re-register if you have already registered. A sample ballot will be sent to the address on your registration form. By law, sample ballots will be sent 11 days prior to a federal, state or county primary or general election.
Visit the voter look-up website to verify if your local board of elections received your request for a ballot and the status of your absentee ballot. If you have more questions, please contact your local board of elections.
Most states have a method for any eligible voter to cast a ballot before Election Day, either during the early voting period or by requesting an absentee ballot. In 14 states, early voting is not available and an excuse is required to request