While HPV infections are very common, cancer caused by HPV is not. Most people infected with HPV will not develop a cancer related to the infection. HPV infections of the mucous membranes can cause genital warts, but they usually have no symptoms. Viruses that can lead to cancer. Viruses are very small organisms; most can’t even be seen with an ordinary microscope. They are made up of a small number of genes in the form of DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coating.
Other viruses can also cause hepatitis (hepatitis A virus, for example), but only HBV and HCV can cause the long-term (chronic) infections that increase a person’s chance of liver cancer. In the United States, less than half of liver cancers are linked to HBV or HCV infection. Viruses that can lead to cancer. Viruses are very small organisms; most can’t even be seen with an ordinary microscope. They are made up of a small number of genes in the form of DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coating.
Viruses and other infections that cause cancer are more prevalent in developing countries where 1 of 4 cases can be linked to infections. Contrast this with developed countries where only 1 of 10 cases can be linked to viruses and infection. Radiation is also considered to be a cancer risk factor. 
The way that cancer viruses act is somewhat different from the way that disease viruses act. In virus disease, the virus attacks cells and either destroys or incapacitates them. When viruses cause cancer, they appear to do the opposite. Instead of destroying the cells, they stimulate their continued survival. 
An oncovirus is a virus that can cause cancer. This term originated from studies of acutely transforming retroviruses in the 1950–60s, often called oncornaviruses to denote their RNA virus origin. It now refers to any virus with a DNA or RNA genome causing cancer and is synonymous with tumor virus or cancer virus.. The vast majority of human and animal viruses do not cause cancer, probably because of longstanding co-evolution between the virus and its host.
High-risk HPV types. Other types of genital HPV have been linked to cancer in both men and women. These types are called “high-risk” because they can cause cancer. Doctors worry more about the cell changes and pre-cancers linked to these types, because they are more likely to grow into cancers over time. Common high-risk HPV types include HPV 16 and 18. Infection with HPV is very commo
Vulvar cancer. HPV can also cause cancer of the vulva, which is the outer or external part of the female genital organs. Nearly 7 out of 10 vulvar cancers and almost all vulvar pre-cancers are linked to infection with the high-risk HPV types. This is a much less common cancer than cervical cancer. These types are called “high-risk” because they can cause cancer. Doctors worry more about the cell changes and pre-cancers linked to these types, because they are more likely to grow into cancers over time. Common high-risk HPV types include HPV 16 and 18.
HIV, the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), doesn’t appear to cause cancers directly. But HIV infection increases a person’s risk of getting several types of cancer, especially some linked to other viruses. Viruses that can lead to cancer. Viruses are very small organisms; most can’t even be seen with an ordinary microscope. They are made up of a small number of genes in the form of DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coating.
Today, it is estimated that viruses are responsible for almost 20 percent of cancer cases worldwide. Seven viruses have been connected to specific types of malignancies; it’s now known, for example, that the human papillomavirus (HPV) causes cervical cancer and some types of head and neck cancer. While viruses can cause cancer in a variety of ways, the actual mechanisms fall into two broad categories. In the direct method, oncoviruses (cancer-causing viruses) infect normal cells and slip some of their genes into the cells’ DNA, causing the cells to produce a few abnormal proteins. In 1958, when scientists linked an aggressive form of leukemia to infection with a particular virus, some researchers took the discovery as evidence that nearly all cancers are caused by viruses.
In general, each type of virus tends to infect only a certain type of cell in the body. (For example, the viruses that cause the common cold only infect the cells lining the nose and throat.). Several viruses are linked with cancer in humans. Viruses that can lead to cancer. Viruses are very small organisms; most can’t even be seen with an ordinary microscope. They are made up of a small number of genes in the form of DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coating.