The Eisenhower Doctrine was signed and put into effect in one of the most heated times of the Cold War. It was created after the events that occurred at the Suez Canal in 1956. With the Soviet Union pushing their way into Egypt, and increasing hostility from the northeastern African governments the U.S. felt that something needed to be done. The doctrine was put on the table by President Eisenhower in January, and congress gave it the nod in march of 1957
President Dwight D. Eisenhower announced the Eisenhower Doctrine in January 1957, and Congress approved it in March of the same year. The Eisenhower Administration’s decision to issue this doctrine was motivated in part by an increase in Arab hostility toward the West, and growing Soviet influence in Egypt and Syria following the Suez Crisis of 1956.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The term Eisenhower Doctrine refers to a speech by President Dwight David Eisenhower on 5 January 1957, within a Special Message to the Congress on the Situation in the Middle East . The military action provisions of the Doctrine were applied in the Lebanon Crisis the following year, when the United States intervened in response to a request by that country's then President Camille Chamoun.
On January 5, 1957, in response to the increasingly tense situation in the Middle East, President Dwight Eisenhower (1890-1969) delivered a proposal to a joint session of the U.S. Congress calling for a new and more proactive American policy in the region. The Eisenhower Doctrine received its first call to action in the summer of 1958, when civil strife in Lebanon led that nation’s president to request American assistance. Nearly 15,000 U.S. troops were sent to help quell the disturbances.
Dwight D. Eisenhower. In a special message to Congress, Eisenhower proclaims the sovereignty of the Middle Eastern nations and that the United States will ensure that force will not be used for any aggressive purpose in the world.
The Eisenhower Doctrine, 1957. President Dwight D. Eisenhower announced the Eisenhower Doctrine in January 1957, and Congress approved it in March of the same year. Under the Eisenhower Doctrine, a country could request American economic assistance and/or aid from U.S. military forces if it was being threatened by armed aggression from another state. 
Under the Eisenhower Doctrine, a Middle Eastern country could request American economic assistance or aid from U.S. military forces if it was being threatened by armed aggression from another state. The military action provisions of the Doctrine were applied in the Lebanon Crisis the following year, when the United States intervened in response to a request by that country's then President Camille Chamoun.
The Eisenhower Doctrine. In order to suppress growing Soviet influence in the Middle East following the Suez Crisis of 1956, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appears before a joint session of Congress on January 5, 1957, to present a policy that will become known as the Eisenhower Doctrine. 
In the global political context, the Doctrine was made in response to the possibility of a generalized war, threatened as a result of the latent threat of the Soviet Union becoming involved in Egypt after the Suez Crisis. The military action provisions of the Doctrine were applied in the Lebanon Crisis the following year, when the United States intervened in response to a request by that country's then President Camille Chamoun.