Money plant can grow without much assistance and care. It is believed that money plant brings good luck, prosperity, happiness and wealth. You can grow this as an indoor or outdoor plant. Keep a stem of money plant in a bottle of water and decorate indoor or outdoor. But, this does not mean that it will grow even without care. If you want to grow it really well, then you have to take some extra care for it. Here are some tips for you to grow money plant faster.
c) How to plant: The best part about this plant is that you can plant it just by cutting a part of already grown money plant. Just cut the stem of already grown money plant and plant it in soil. Cut the fresh stem from the growth tip. If you are planting it in soil then make a hole in soil and plant it. 1. Money plant should be grown where there is less sunlight or in shade. 2. Do not water them every time. Let the soil dry and then water. 3. They can grow up to 10 feet if you grow them in soil. 4.They need less care until and unless you do not overdo anything like water, sunlight, and fertilizers. 5
Sanjay Ramaswamy / 2 yrs ago. Water grown money plant will be smaller and slender as compared to a soil grown money plant.The first two weeks will require constant changing of water as some parts of the plant die off causing the water to become foul. As the new aquatic roots grow, the water will remain clear. 
Water and Fertilizer. Your money tree plant needs water every seven to 10 days. Water when the top 3 or 4 inches of the soil is dry, keeping the deeper soil moist, but not wet. Trees may need more water in hot environments or when indoor air is dry. Shaping and Pruning. Money tree plants do not need regular pruning, but you can trim them to shape the plant and remove damaged or yellow leaves. Use a sharp pair of scissors or pruning shears that have been cleaned in a 10 percent bleach solution to trim away unwanted leaves.
2.Watering: Watering will definitely help it to grow. But avoid over watering in any circumstances. Money plant does not need too much of water to grow. It is essential to let the soil dry between two watering sessions. Water the plant once every 2 - 3 weeks in winter and once every 7 - 10 days during summer. If you want to grow it really well, then you have to take some extra care for it. Here are some tips for you to grow money plant faster. 1.Planting: When starting to grow your new plant, it is better to first grow it in water. Let the roots develop and then transplant it in pot containing soil.
Container-grown money tree plants need repotting every two years. A larger container give the roots room to grow and the plant will grow as well. Once the plant has reached the desired size, use a container of similar size with fresh potting soil. Shaping and Pruning. Money tree plants do not need regular pruning, but you can trim them to shape the plant and remove damaged or yellow leaves. Use a sharp pair of scissors or pruning shears that have been cleaned in a 10 percent bleach solution to trim away unwanted leaves.
Watering and Fertilizing. Water money tree plants once every seven to 10 days. Apply just enough water to dampen the soil, and use a spray bottle filled with water to mist the foliage of the tree. Never dampen the leaves when the plant is in full sunlight to avoid potential leaf burn.
Money plant does not need too much of water to grow. It is essential to let the soil dry between two watering sessions. Water the plant once every 2-3 weeks in winter and once every 7-10 days during summer. Keep a stem of money plant in a bottle of water and decorate indoor or outdoor. But, this does not mean that it will grow even without care. If you want to grow it really well, then you have to take some extra care for it. Here are some tips for you to grow money plant faster.
Watering and Fertilizing. Over watering is a common hazard to money plants. You only need to water the plants once every seven to eight days and only add water to the container until the soil is moist. Use a spray bottle to lightly water the plant's leaves or to foliar feed the plants. To grow a healthy feng shui money tree, you must take care that you don't over water the plant. Give your tree a bit of attention each day to see what it needs, and it should grow and thrive.