Hibiscus is easily propagated from cuttings. Planting from seed does work, but it takes a long time for the plant to get established. There are two methods for propagation from cuttings. Propagation from tip cuttings uses soft green shoots and is best done in the warm summer months. 
By keeping the plant moist, the roots of the hibiscus cutting should take hold in about 4 to 6 weeks. After your hibiscus plant establishes itself, you can transplant it to a larger container or directly into your flower garden. In no time, new growth takes hold and you should have a gorgeous blossoming flower. 
Semiwoody cuttings work too but really old wood does better rooted directly in dirt. It seems keeping it in water makes the mature bark start to rot and thus damages the new roots. 2. Cut the plant material in pieces of 4-6 (10-15 cm) in length but no shorter than 3 (7.5 cm) and preferably no longer than 10 (25 cm). 11. Leave the plant in water until the roots have started to change from white to a light tan. This occurs about 2 months after sticking but can take up to 3-4 months, again depending on variety and time of year. The roots are now hard enough to plant in dirt without breaking. 12.
How to Propagate Hibiscus. Propagating hibiscus refers to the process of cloning hibiscus flowers. The process is the same for both tropical and hardy varieties, and with a little bit of know-how, this is a gardening endeavor you can take on yourself. Follow these steps as you learn how to propagate hibiscus.
Harvesting a Cutting. Root your hibiscus from a softwood cutting -- flexible new growth that bends without breaking -- or from a semi-hardwood one that snaps when bent. In early morning, when its moisture level is highest, take an 8- to 12-inch stem cutting from a pest-and disease-free hibiscus plant. 
The next step for propagating hibiscus from cuttings is to place the hibiscus cutting in well draining soil. A 50-50 mix of potting soil and perlite works well. Make sure the rooting soil is thoroughly wet, then stick a finger into the rooting soil. Hibiscus Propagation from Hibiscus Cuttings. Both hardy and tropical hibiscus are propagated from cuttings. Hibiscus cuttings are normally the preferred way of propagating hibiscus because a cutting will grow to be an exact copy of the parent plant. When using hibiscus cuttings to propagate hibiscus, start by taking the cutting. The cutting should be taken from new growth or softwood. Softwood is branches on the hibiscus that have not yet matured. Softwood will be pliable and often has a greenish cast
A step by step instruction to preparing a cutting from a hibiscus plant to develop roots for a new hibiscus plant. Just follow these easy steps and you will have a new Hibiscus flower for your garden. Brought to you by Dougherty's Garden on greendougherty.com. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Hardwood Cutting Propagation-by Allan Little Hibiscus strike readily from cuttings and will normally root in 4-6 weeks. Hardwood cuttings are usually taken in Spring-Summer (all year round if you're lucky to have a hot-house). Use straight wood, pencil thickness or a little larger. Tip cuttings of hibiscus require a moist and uniform 70-80 degrees F (or 22-27 degrees C.) atmosphere and well-drained media. Therefore tip cuttings should be taken during the warmer months, September to April being the most suitable time.
To propagate specific varieties of tropical hibiscus, other than by grafting, rooting cuttings is the usual method. The common varieties found in nurseries and home improvement centers are propagated in this way. Many of the hybrid varieties can also be rooted. 