Coming into effect after the 1994 democratic elections, the Day of Reconciliation – 16 December – was inaugurated to help South Africans reconcile the horror of the events of past and the promise of a shared future together, regardless of race, culture or creed. Check out our overview of things to do over the Day of Reconciliation long weekend in Cape Town. --- 2015 CALENDAR OF PUBLIC HOLIDAYS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
Day of Reconciliation. After the first democratic elections in 1994, December 16 continued to form part of the history of post apartheid South Africa. On 16 December 1995 the name was changed once more and was celebrated as a public holiday known as the Day of Reconciliation. The establishment of December 16 as a public holiday was an attempt to strike a balance between a divided past and promoting national unity and reconciliation in a new political dispensation. Dingaan's Day. Initially 16 December was celebrated by Afrikaners as Dingaan's dag (Dingane's Day.) This was in celebration for what Voortrekkers viewed as a 'victory' over Zulu warriors near the Ncome River in KwaZulu Natal.
National Reconciliation Week was first celebrated in 1996. National Reconciliation Week aims to give people across Australia the opportunity to focus on reconciliation between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. In January 2000, the Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation was replaced with a new private body, Reconciliation Australia. Reconciliation Australia is the current peak national organisation building and promoting
Look for things to do. Browse our directory of things to do and find the perfect activity for your day off, whether you choose to people watch at a busy caf, or partake in something a little more active, you're sure to find something suitable.
Day of Reconciliation celebrated as a public holiday in SA for the first time. 16 December is a day of great significant in South Africa due to two historical events that took place. The first of these was in 1838, when the Battle of Blood River took place between the Voortrekkers and the Zulus. The Voortrekkers, having moved into the interior of South Africa during the Great Trek, were eager to settle on land. The region that they intended to settle on was already inhabited by the Zulu people.
For Afrikaners, 16 December was commemorated as the Day of the Vow, also known as Day of the Covenant or Dingaan's Day. The Day of the Vow was a religious holiday commemorating the Voortrekker victory over the Zulus at the Battle of Blood River in 1838, and is still celebrated by some Afrikaners. On the other side of the political spectrum, 16 December is also the anniversary of the 1961 founding of Umkhonto we Sizwe (Spear of the Nation), the armed wing of the African National Congress. The day is also the de facto start of the sixteen-day South African summer holiday period. It is the first of four public holidays observed at the height of summer in the Southern Hemisphere, along with Christmas Day, Day of Goodwill) and New Year's Day. Many small businesses close down and employees go on leave over this period
In apartheid South Africa 16 December was known as Day of the Vow, as the Voortrekkers in preparation for the battle took a Vow before God that they would build a church and that they and their descendants would observe the day as a day of thanksgiving should they be granted victory. Browse our directory of things to do and find the perfect activity for your day off, whether you choose to people watch at a busy caf, or partake in something a little more active, you're sure to find something suitable.
December 16 looms large in the history of South Africa. Today in the new South African it is celebrated as the Day of Reconciliation between Blacks and Whites. Dingaan's Day. Initially 16 December was celebrated by Afrikaners as Dingaan's dag (Dingane's Day.) This was in celebration for what Voortrekkers viewed as a 'victory' over Zulu warriors near the Ncome River in KwaZulu Natal.
On 16 December 1995, the Day of Reconciliation was celebrated as a public holiday in South Africa for the first time. References: • The Day of Reconciliation [online] Available at: info.gov.za [Accessed 8 December 2009]. • Muller, C.F.J. (ed)(1981). The first of these was in 1838, when the Battle of Blood River took place between the Voortrekkers and the Zulus. The Voortrekkers, having moved into the interior of South Africa during the Great Trek, were eager to settle on land. The region that they intended to settle on was already inhabited by the Zulu people.