MyPlate is the current nutrition guide published by the United States Department of Agriculture, a food circle (i.e. a pie chart) depicting a place setting with a plate and glass divided into five food groups. It replaced the USDA's MyPyramid guide on June 2, 2011, ending 19 years of USDA food pyramid diagrams. MyPlate will be displayed on food packaging and used in nutrition education in the United States. In unveiling MyPlate, First Lady Michelle Obama said, Parents don't have the time to measure out exactly three ounces of chicken or to look up how much rice or broccoli is in a serving. ...
USDA MyPlate Explanation. To combat the alarmingly high obesity rates of children in America, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), under the initiative of First Lady Michelle Obama, has created a new way to help you eat right. To replace the hard-to-decipher Food Pyramid, the USDA has made MyPlate – its successor – visually illustrative to help people keep track of how much to eat of each food group.
Owatonna, MN (PRWEB) September 20, 2011. In support of the USDA’s recently updated nutrition initiative “MyPlate”, Learning ZoneXpress (LZX) is now offering a variety of Kids MyPlate products to promote the Dietary Guidelines for children. “We are excited to release a kid-friendly version of MyPlate
To determine what’s right for you, consider your age as well as your activity level, keeping in mind the more active you are, the more calories you will burn. The USDA provides recommendations for each age group for the different food groups. Select a food group to learn what's the right amount for you. Serving Sizes Serving sizes are the amounts of food the experts at the USDA recommend you eat. Familiarize yourself with the serving sizes of the foods you eat most often, and it will become easier to eat healthier meals. Select a food group to review specific serving sizes. Health Benefits When you eat the right foods in the right amounts you’ll enjoy a variety of health benefits, including reduced risk of heart disease, stroke, cancer, and Type 2 Diabetes. You’ll also be happier, have more energy, and find it easier to manage your weight. Select a food group to learn more.
The USDA's first dietary guidelines were published in 1894 by Dr. Wilbur Olin Atwater as a farmers' bulletin. Since then, the USDA has provided a variety of nutrition guides for the public, including the Basic 7 (1943–1956), the Basic Four (1956–1992), the Food Guide Pyramid (1992–2005), and MyPyramid (2005–2013). In unveiling MyPlate, First Lady Michelle Obama said, Parents don't have the time to measure out exactly three ounces of chicken or to look up how much rice or broccoli is in a serving. ...
The USDA food guide pyramid that was introduction in 1992 was revamped in 2005, and became to be known as MyPyramid. Since then, there has been a change in the national view of established guidelines for nutrition. New dietary guidelines have been introduced together with a graphical representation. The Colors in MyPlate. MyPlate is made of four sections with the colors orange, green, blue and red, plus a side order in blue. Each color represent a specific food group and provides certain nutritional benefits.
We are proud to announce our appointment to the USDA's National Strategic Partner program. Positive Promotions is committed to providing customers with products they need to promote healthier diets consistent with MyPlate and the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. 
CLICK A FOOD GROUP TO EXPLORE. MyPlate illustrates the five food groups that are the building blocks for a healthy diet using a familiar image – a place setting for a meal. Before you eat, think about what goes on your plate, in your cup, or in your bowl. All about the Fruit Group
MyPyramid, released by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) on April 19, 2005, was an update on the earlier American food guide pyramid. It was used until June 2, 2011, when the USDA's MyPlate replaced it. 
The new food guide, USDA’s MyPlate, was introduced in 2010, as the new guidelines for proper dietary nutrition. The Colors in MyPlate. MyPlate is made of four sections with the colors orange, green, blue and red, plus a side order in blue. Each color represent a specific food group and provides certain nutritional benefits.