By Regina Bailey. Definition: Heterozygous refers to having two different alleles for a single trait. Related Terms: Allele, Genes, Homozygous. Examples: The gene for seed shape in pea plants exists in two forms, one form or allele for round seed shape (R) and the other for wrinkled seed shape (r).
Homozygous and Heterozygous. If an organism has two copies of the same allele, for example AA or aa, it is homozygous for that trait. If the organism has one copy of two different alleles, for example Aa, it is heterozygous. Keep in mind that an organism can't simply be 'homozygous,' period.
The term “heterozygous” refers to a pair of particular genes, or alleles, one of which you inherit from each parent. Genes contain the genetic information that codes for the proteins that express your traits. When the two alleles are not identical, the pair is heterozygous.
Heterozygous means that an organism has two different alleles of a gene. For example, pea plants can have red flowers and either be homozygous dominant (red-red), or heterozygous (red-white). If they have white flowers, then they are homozygous recessive (white-white). Carriers are always heterozygous.
Definition: Homozygous refers to having identical alleles for a single trait. Related Terms: Allele, Genes, Heterozygous. Examples: The gene for seed shape in pea plants exists in two forms, one form or allele for round seed shape (R) and the other for wrinkled seed shape (r).
Any time an individual has two different alleles for a gene, the individual's genotype is heterozygous. For genes with simple dominance, like the pea example, the dominant allele is always expressed, so heterozgyous individuals have the dominant trait.
A heterozygous plant would contain the following alleles for seed shape: (Rr). Organisms have two alleles for each trait. When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one is dominant and the other is recessive. Using the previous example, round seed shape (R) is dominant and wrinkled seed shape (r)