* Magnesium from supplements should not exceed 350 mg per day. It is safe to consume more than your daily magnesium needs from food and water. The best sources of magnesium are legumes, nuts, seeds, fish and whole grains. The following table shows you which foods are sources of magnesium. Magnesium is a mineral that you need every day for good health. Magnesium helps you take energy from food and make new proteins. Magnesium is an important part of your bones, and helps keep your muscles and nerves healthy.
“Hard” water usually contains more magnesium than “soft” water. Try to include as many foods rich in magnesium in your diet as possible, and supplement the shortfall with AlgaeCal, a natural source of magnesium, calcium and many other minerals you need. Below is a list of foods that are a good source of magnesium. List of Magnesium Rich Foods. Magnesium Rich Food Sources. Green vegetables such as spinach are good sources of magnesium because the center of the chlorophyll molecule (which gives green vegetables their color) contains magnesium. Some beans, peas, nuts, seeds, and whole, unrefined grains are also good sources of magnesium
Food. Magnesium is widely distributed in plant and animal foods and in beverages. Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains, are good sources [ 1, 3 ]. In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium. Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods. Some types of food processing, such as refining grains in ways that remove the nutrient-rich germ and bran, lower magnesium content substantially [ 1 ]. Selected food sources of magnesium are listed in Table 2
Basic Description. Magnesium is a key mineral in human metabolism, and found in small to medium amounts in many of the World's Healthiest Foods. Vegetables (especially green leafy ones), nuts and seeds, and legumes are your best WHFoods sources for magnesium. While there are few food sources that are strikingly high in magnesium content, a large number of foods contain relevant amounts of this important mineral. In fact, almost half of our World's Healthiest Foods are rated as good, very good, or excellent sources of
The sources of magnesium include food, water, and supplements. While clearly a “good” source of magnesium is one that is readily available and easily absorbed, most experts recommend a combination of sources, taking advantage of both dietary magnesium and absorbable magnesium supplements. Traditionally, foods highest in magnesium content are green vegetables, whole grain cereals, nuts and beans, and seafood. According to USDA food charts (see a complete chart of magnesium rich foods), the five foods with the highest magnesium per typical serving are: 1  Halibut. 2  Mackeral. 3  Boiled spinach.
% Daily Value in Magnesium Containing Foods. The majority of good magnesium sources contain only about 10% or less of recommended daily amounts, as seen in a list of the magnesium content in common food sources of magnesium. Those that do contain more, such as certain nuts, fish and whole grains, are often eaten in too small quantities by the average person. 
It's not that these foods are good magnesium sources, just that we eat (or drink) a lot of them. Diets rich in green leafy vegetables, legumes, nuts, and seeds —and to a lesser extent, whole grains —would be the best way for you to limit your risk of having magnesium deficiency. While there are few food sources that are strikingly high in magnesium content, a large number of foods contain relevant amounts of this important mineral. In fact, almost half of our World's Healthiest Foods are rated as good, very good, or excellent sources of magnesium.
1 Snack on a half-cup serving of dry roasted soybeans, which provides nearly half the necessary magnesium for the day, or add shelled soybeans (edamame) to your shopping list. 2  Other legumes rich in magnesium include black beans, kidney beans, white beans, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and lentils. 1  Avocado Loaded with multivitamins, heart-healthy nutrients, and disease-thwarting chemical compounds, avocados are one of the most nutritious and versatile produce picks around. 