very effective. Yes, skipping is a very effective way of reducing fat, getting a good cardio workout and introducing a little variety into your normal routine. It works out almost every part of your body, wrists, calf's, hamstrings, shoulders, ankles etc. Yes, aerobics and good nutrition are very effective for weight  loss.Aerobics is very effective for weight loss. Aerobics helps to burn  calories while strengthening muscles … .
Progress to jumping over the rope once you are confident your timing is correct. Remember, skipping is a strenuous exercise so start slowly. Try skipping for 20-30 seconds, marching on the spot for 30 seconds, repeat. As your fitness improves you can increase the time you skip for. Start a Free Trial Today. To calculate how many calories you burn through skipping and various other exercises, try the Weight Loss Resources tools free for 24 hours.
If you haven't picked up a jump rope since fourth-grade gym class, it's time for a skip down memory lane. Burn 135 calories in just 10 minutes with this jump rope workout from Marty Winkler, cocreator of RopeSport workout DVDs (ropesport.com). You'll also sculpt your shoulders, chest, arms, and legs. 
Skipping for weight loss is becoming increasingly popular. See how many calories are burned by skipping and how it can help you lose weight and get fit. Start a Free Trial Today. To calculate how many calories you burn through skipping and various other exercises, try the Weight Loss Resources tools free for 24 hours.
The bottom line in weight loss is taking in fewer calories than you burn. Rope jumping helps with calorie burning. For best weight-loss results, work on a healthy, low-calorie diet along with your rope jumping routine. As you schedule rope skipping into your day, find a pace that allows you to hold a conversation while jumping. If you become tired or out of breath, don't get discouraged. 
Increasing the duration beyond 30 minutes will help with weight loss. Doing vigorous exercises, such as jumping or skipping rope, for one hour will burn 440 to 590 calories in a person weighing 154 pounds, according to the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention. Skipping helps with weight loss, increases strength and stamina, strengthens bones and staves off osteoporosis. It increases agility, energy and fitness, oxygenation and blood circulation. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recommends daily physical activities for at least 30 minutes.
Losing weight requires a strong commitment to eat a healthy diet, control your caloric intake, and maintain a regular exercise routine. Skipping is a form of exercise that may help with weight loss. It is simple, easy and cost effective. Skipping is an energetic exercise that can be done at varying intensities to burn off calories and lose weight. Skipping helps with weight loss, increases strength and stamina, strengthens bones and staves off osteoporosis. It increases agility, energy and fitness, oxygenation and blood circulation. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recommends daily physical activities for at least 30 minutes.
I guess everybody has done or at least tried skipping (jump-rope) before. It is a very effective cardio exercise that boosts your heart rate up, so your cardiovascular system improves and can burn an impressive amount of calories in a relatively short period of time so it is very helpful if you want to lose weight. You can try the Tabata protocol, which means 8 rounds of 20 seconds exercising, 10 seconds rest. E.g. 20 sec double-unders, 10 sec slow singles or rest. - You can add not only skipping variations but burpees, wallclimbers, push ups, pull ups, etc to your skipping workout. Have fun with your skipping workout and the weight loss results will roll in real soon! A comprehensive skipping plan for weight loss is now available in the WatchFit app. This plan provide a daily instruction of how you need to skip to boost your weight loss goals