Tomotherapy is the latest state-of-the art method of delivering Intensity modulated radiation beams directed precisely to the tumor and saving normal healthy tissue surrounding the tumor. The accuracy and precision of the treatment delivery process is unparalleled compared to conventional radiotherapy machines. 
Along with Gamma Knife brain radiosurgery, the TomoTherapy Hi-Art treatment system is one of the most advanced and versatile radiation therapy systems commercially available. The system, now in place at UK Albert B. Chandler Hospital, is used for noninvasive treatment of a wide variety of cancers in the body. 
Tomotherapy is the most advanced form of treatment for cancer, in the world today. Utilising state-of-the-art, modern technology, Tomotherapy is the most modern form of cancer treatment which treats patients with precision and accuracy.
TomoTherapy® combines an advanced form of intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), with the accuracy of computed tomography (CT) scanning technology, all in one machine. Utilising state-of-the-art, modern technology, Tomotherapy is the most modern form of cancer treatment which treats patients with precision and accuracy.
Tomotherapy for Prostate Cancer Treatment. Radiation therapy is an important part of treatment for many men with prostate cancer. Conventional radiation treatment, which delivers a wide beam of radiation, is highly effective in destroying cancer cells. The wide beam, however, can also damage healthy tissue near a cancerous tumor. As a certified TomoTherapy Center of Excellence, Froedtert & the Medical College researchers are actively investigating new clinical applications of this technology. One area researchers are studying is the use of TomoTherapy to treat prostate cancer in less time with higher and fewer doses of radiation.
TomoTherapy ® combines an advanced form of intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), with the accuracy of computed tomography (CT) scanning technology, all in one machine. With this advanced technology, we can sculpt powerful and precise radiation beams to treat hard-to-reach tumors. TomoTherapy® for prostate cancer. TomoTherapy offers the following potential advantage for prostate cancer patients: 1  Uses built-in CT scanning to confirm the exact shape and location of a prostate tumor seconds before your treatment begins.
TomoTherapy ® combines an advanced form of intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), with the accuracy of computed tomography (CT) scanning technology, all in one machine. With this advanced technology, we can sculpt powerful and precise radiation beams to treat hard-to-reach tumors. 
The TomoTherapy Hi·Art Systema† systemã is a new way to deliver radiation treatment for. Cancer it delivers a very sophisticated form OF, imrt or intensity modulated, radiotherapy and integrates treatment, planning patient, positioning and treatment delivery in one. system 
Tomotherapy is a type of radiation therapy in which the radiation is delivered slice-by-slice (hence the use of the Greek prefix tomo- , which means slice). At this time, the Hi-Art system manufactured by TomoTherapy Inc. is the primary tomotherapy device in use although there are still a number of Corvus systems being used. TomoTherapy TomoHD systems are also in use.
Tomotherapy is a relatively new platform for the delivery of radiation therapy. The radiation is produced and delivered by a linear accelerator. This linear accelerator has been integrated into a. scanner, a configuration that produces several potential advantages. 