SharpCharts. Listed as “Average True Range”, ATR is on the Indicators drop-down menu. The “parameters” box to the right of the indicator contains the default value, 14, for the number of periods used to smooth the data. To adjust the period setting, highlight the default value and enter a new setting. Wilder often used 8 period ATR
Average TrueRange The average true range (ATR) is an exponential moving average of the true range. Wilder used a 14-day ATR to explain the concept. Traders can use shorter or longer timeframes based on their trading preferences. 
Average True Range (ATR) is a very useful indicator that measures the overall price volatility. However, the ATR indicator is often overlooked by various traders because of the way it is displayed: In addition to how it is displayed, many forex traders find issues with the actual indicator. 
Average true range (ATR) is a technical analysis volatility indicator originally developed by J. Welles Wilder, Jr. for commodities. The indicator does not provide an indication of price trend, simply the degree of price volatility. The average true range is an N-day smoothed moving average (SMMA) of the true range values. Wilder recommended a 14-period smoothing. The range of a day's trading is simply. The true range extends it to yesterday's closing price if it was outside of today's range. The true range is the largest of the: 1  Most recent period's high minus the most recent period's low. 2  Absolute value of the most recent period's high minus the previous close.
Average True Range is a technical analysis indicator that measures the price change volatility. It was developed by J. Welles Wilder Jr. for commodity market analysis. The indicator says nothing about trend strength or direction; instead it just shows the volatility level. 
DEFINITION of 'Average True Range-ATR'. A measure of volatility introduced by Welles Wilder in his book: New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems. The true range indicator is the greatest of the following: -current high less the current low. -the absolute value of the current high less the previous close. 
The Average True Range is an indicator used for determining the volatility of a pair in the Forex market. The ATR is used for technical analysis is other markets too such as stocks, options, and futures. What the ATR does is simple. It measures the range of price movement for a specific price period. History of the ATR. 
The Average True Range (ATR) is an indicator that was developed by J. Welles Wilder, Jr. who introduced it along with a few other indicators (Parabolic SAR, RSI and the Directional Movement Concept) in his book, “New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems” in 1978. The Average true range is not only used as a basis for the stop loss level, it also plays a significant role in setting the take profit level. Our discussion on the use of dollars to express the value of the stop loss level goes the same way if we express it as number of periods or pips.