Report Abuse. bacteria don't produce antibodies, they produce antigens. B cells or T cells receive the antigens, detect them, and make antibodies. (Antigen= ANTIbody GENerator) Antigens are defined as any substance that a foreign body secretes into an organism it is occupying. So it is possible for it to secrete more than one antigen. Antibodies are only produced in the vertebrate immune system, so bacteria don't make antibodies. Unless you can genetically engineer them to do so, so the answer to your last question is genetic engineering-putting vertebrate DNA into bacterial plasmids (DNA circles).
Antibodies Defined. Antibodies are proteins that are produced by the immune system to help stop harm from occurring. They are also called immunoglobulins. When an intruder, such as a virus, bacteria, or other chemical, enters the body, the immune system springs into action. When an antigen enters the body or tries to enter the body, the immune system is triggered. Chemical signals are sent to alert all the different parts of the immune system into action. First, the B cell meets the antigen. The B cell will create the antibody protein and stick it to
Best Answer: bacteria can be made to produce any protein that you want, including antibodies. the possible problems with using bacteria to produce antibodies are twofold: 1. the protein folding machinery for bacteria is not the same as in mammalian cells, so the antibody protein may not be folded properly. Antibodies are only produced in the vertebrate immune system, so bacteria don't make antibodies. Unless you can genetically engineer them to do so, so the answer to your last question is genetic engineering-putting vertebrate DNA into bacterial plasmids (DNA circles).
But in short they are produced by b cells/plasma cells via foreign antigen stimulation. Antigens maybe a protein (most likely) on a foreign cell/pathogen or as simple as a foreign protein that has been inhaled etc. Once bound to the antigen antibodies serve a number of functions. Report Abuse. Antibodies recognize foregin objects by 'reading' the antigens on cells. Antibodies know not to attack your body's own cells, because your cells have antigens on them that are 'familiar.' An antigen, for example, can be a polysaccaride on a cell's membrane. hellojello · 4 years ago.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Antibodies are proteins produced by B-lymphocytes (B-cells), cells of the immune system. In the body, antibodies bind to target molecules (antigens) present on foreign objects that enter the body, such as pollen or bacteria. The target molecules are often but not always proteins
Antibodies recognize specific antigens by identifying certain areas on the surface of the antigen known as antigenic determinants. Once the specific antigenic determinant is recognized, the antibody will bind to the determinant. The antigen is tagged as an intruder and labeled for destruction by other immune cells. The antigen-binding site is the area of the antibody that recognizes the specific antigenic determinant and binds to the antigen. Since different antibodies recognize different antigens, antigen-binding sites are different for different antibodies.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. 
Antibodies are large Y-shaped proteins. They are recruited by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects like bacteria and viruses. The specific region on an antigen that an antibody recognizes and binds to is called the epitope, or antigenic determinant. An epitope is usually made up of a 5-8 amino acid long chain on the surface of the protein.
Plasma cells create antibodies that are specific to a specific antigen. Plasma cells generate the antibodies that are essential to the branch of the immune system known as the humoral immune system. The antigen-binding site is the area of the antibody that recognizes the specific antigenic determinant and binds to the antigen. Since different antibodies recognize different antigens, antigen-binding sites are different for different antibodies.