There are, however, a number of state and federal programs that are designed to provide financial and material assistance for single mothers. By investigating and applying for these programs, you can make your life as a single mother much easier and more manageable. Search this catalog to see if there are any grants that you could apply for. 6. See if your state offers any specific financial assistance for single mothers. States might also offer their own aid programs for single mothers. This depends on which state you live in. Click here to see a list of assistance programs offered by individual states
government assistance for single mothers. , and a number of programs have been suitably designed to help less fortunate single mothers to cope with the costs of living. These programs help single mothers to obtain food, shelter, clothing, education, and career advice. This is a trusted form of government assistance for single parents which ensures nourishment for the single parent and child. When the SNAP card holder purchases food from a store, they will present the card to the till operator who will deduct the cost of the food purchased.
This is assuming you are a single mother with one young child and can share your room. Hopefully you are also fortunate enough to not have to pay a water bill, or trash bill. My electric bill for a one bedroom apartment last month was upwards of $150, and my thermostat was set at 68 degrees all month. Cell phone: $75. Considering the average single mother makes around $10 an hour, or $400 a week/$1,600 a month, pre-tax, that's pretty much impossible. Factor in hourly wages lost due to a child's illness, or lack of child care, and they've lost their ability to make paycheck-to-paycheck work.
By Jennifer Wolf. Government assistance can be hard to come by. Many hardworking single parents earn too much to qualify for benefits like food stamps, but earn too little to actually get by each month. If this describes your situation, know that help is available, and that you're not alone. Take a look at these figures, representing the amount of money a typical single parent with one child has left over to pay for food, after factoring in the cost of housing, health care, transportation, and child care 1  : In Toledo, OH: $32. 2  In Fort Work, TX: $35. 3  In Birmingham, AL: -$92.
Government assistance for single parents can aid less fortunate single parents in various fields. The government provides those in need with medical support, financial support, clothing, food, education grants, housing grants, and also free day care for children between the ages of three and five years old. This is a trusted form of government assistance for single parents which ensures nourishment for the single parent and child. When the SNAP card holder purchases food from a store, they will present the card to the till operator who will deduct the cost of the food purchased.
Temporary Cash Assistance for The Poor. This essentially means that it is technically possible for a single mother with two children earning less than $19,790 or $1,650 per month to be eligible for TANF assistance. For example, the lifetime limit for RI Works is 48 months
Financial Aid For College. For single mothers, higher education may seem like a far-fetched idea. Fortunately, there are plenty of options that make returning to school a reality — from grants and scholarships (free money), work-study (earned money) to federal loans (borrowed money). 
The government has billions of dollars in special scholarships and grants to help single mothers get a better education. If you are looking to go back to college and need help paying we suggest you try the financial help program kit to find program for your. 