For decades scientists have been scouring Africa for ancient human remains. Archaeologists think Homo habilis, the first truly “human-like” primate, lived about 2.5 million years ago, and Lucy, the human-ape mashup who is perhaps our most famous ancestor, lived about 3.2 million years ago. 
The earliest fossils argued by some to belong to the human lineage are Sahelanthropus tchadensis (7 Ma) and Orrorin tugenensis (6 Ma), followed by Ardipithecus (5.5–4.4 Ma), with species Ar. kadabba and Ar. ramidus. In the early Miocene, about 22 million years ago, there were many species of arboreally adapted primitive catarrhines from East Africa; the variety suggests a long history of prior diversification. Fossils at 20 million years ago include fragments attributed to Victoriapithecus, the earliest Old World Monkey.
Oldest Hominid skull ever found: Sahelanthropus tchadensis found in Chad, Africa. Tweet. Sahelanthropus tchadensis is an extinct hominid species that is dated to about 7 million years ago. Whether it can be regarded as part of the Hominina tree is unclear; there are arguments both supporting and rejecting it. The discoverers claimed that S. tchadensis is the oldest known human ancestor after the split of the human line from that of chimpanzees. The bones were found far from most previous hominin fossil finds, which are from Eastern and Southern Africa.
The first early hominid from Africa, the Taung child, as it was known, was a juvenile member of Australopithecus africanus, a species that lived one million to two million years ago, though at the time skeptical scientists said the chimpanzee-size braincase was too small for a hominid. 
Oldest hominid skeleton revealed. At 4.4 million years, Ethiopian fossil clarifies human–chimp relationships. Rex Dalton. In a far-reaching reordering of human evolution, researchers report today the discovery of the oldest hominid skeleton, a fairly complete 4.4-million-year-old female from Ethiopia. The discovery shows that humans did not evolve from ancient knuckle-walking chimpanzees, as has long been believ
The oldest hominins currently known are Sahelanthropus tchadensis from Chad (Brunet et al. 2005) and Orrorin tugenensis from Kenya (Senut et al. 2001). Sahelanthropus, dated to between 6 and 7 mya, is known from a largely complete skull and some other fragmentary remains. 
This is the oldest hominid skeleton on Earth, said Tim White, University of California, Berkeley, professor of integrative biology and one of the co-directors of the Middle Awash Project, a team of 70 scientists that reconstructed the skeleton and other fossils found with it. This is the most detailed snapshot we have of one of the earliest hominids and of what Africa was like 4.4 million years ago.. White and the team will publish the results of their analysis in 11 papers in the Oct. 2 issue of the journal Science, which has Ardi on the cover.
Basic evolution ideas challenged 'Oldest hominid' skull unearthed The Toumai Skull NEW YORK (AP) Scientists in central Africa say they have unearthed the oldest trace of a pre-human ancestor  a remarkably intact skull of a previously unknown species that walked upright as far back as 7 million years ago. Dated between 6 and 7 million years old, Toumai  of the newly dubbed species Sahelanthropus tchadensis  could be as much as 1 million years older than previously found hominid fossils, and at least 3 million years older than the next-oldest hominid skulls.
The oldest fossils of early hominids have been found in AFRICA.   (most common place for hominids to live in the Paleolithic.  Mesolithic, and Neolithic Stone Age periods …)    The Gauteng (aka Cradle of Human-kind) province has findings of  most of the findings in the world. 