You can use Where’s My Refund? to start checking on the status of your return within 24 hours after we have received your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return. Where’s My Refund? has a tracker that displays progress through 3 stages: (1) Return Received, (2) Refund Approved and (3) Refund Sent. If you requested a refund of tax withheld on a Form 1042-S by filing a Form 1040NR, we will need additional time to process the return. Please allow up to 6 months from the original due date of the 1040NR return or the date you actually filed the 1040NR, whichever is later to receive any refund due.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
What to Expect for Refunds in 2015. The IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days. However, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. The easiest way to check your refund status is by using our automated tools. Where’s My Refund? has the most up to date information available about your refund. If you requested a refund of tax withheld on a Form 1042-S by filing a Form 1040NR, we will need additional time to process the return. Please allow up to 6 months from the original due date of the 1040NR return or the date you actually filed the 1040NR, whichever is later to receive any refund due.
1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. 2  You will not see a refund date until the IRS finishes processing your tax return and approves your tax refund. 1 shows “Refund Sent”, the IRS has sent your tax refund to your financial institution for direct deposit. 2  It can take 1 to 5 days for your financial institution to deposit funds into your account. 3  If you requested that your tax refund be mailed, it could take several weeks for your check to arrive.
4. Request Direct Deposit. Once your tax return is accepted and the refund approved, you can choose to have your money directly deposited in your bank account within a week. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process. 5.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
1 Where’s My Refund? 2  tool shows refund date – The IRS will provide a personalized refund date once your status moves to “Refund Approved”. 3  The IRS issues 9 out of 10 refunds within 21 days of acceptance if you e-file with direct deposit. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
If you paper file, it will take three to four weeks for the IRS to process the return and acknowledge your refund. If you e-file, you will get a notice of arrival within 24 hours and confirmation of refund within 72 hours. Once your tax return is accepted and the refund approved, you can choose to have your money directly deposited in your bank account within a week. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process. 5.