The African Egg-Eating Snake. The African egg-eating snake is one of Egypt’s more benevolent species. These tree-dwelling snakes have a wide range throughout Africa and parts of Arabia, but in Egypt they primarily inhabit the southern Nile Valley. If there’s one snake in all of Egypt most likely to be mistaken for a devil, it’s the horned viper. This highly venomous desert snake has a hornlike scale protruding above each of its eyes, giving it a truly demonic appearance.
The only debate could be with the Russell's Viper of India as exact statistics are not readily available for the snake with the most mortalities. However, it is known that all other snakes are a distant third. To the best of my knowledge Egypt has no Adders (common, death, or puff) or Mambas (black or green). It is the third most venomous cobra in terms of toxicity only behind the Phillipene Cobra and Cape Cobra, which are not in egypt. However, the Egyptian Cobra releases a lot more venon then the other two as it is bigger and more agressive. It can yield up 200 mg of venom, which is more than most snakes.
One of the poisonous snakes the Egyptians feared most was the horned viper (Cerastes cornutus and Cerastes cerastes, also known as the sand viper). When the horned viper attacks, it rasps its coils together before springing forward. Certainly there are snakes in Egypt, but I have not seen them pose any problem to tourists. That is not to say that tourists, particularly those who visit some of the more exotic places such as the Western Desert and the Sinai mountains, should not keep a careful eye out.
Snakes in Egypt. Snakes of Egypt – exellent article charting the history of man’s relationship with snakes in this most ancient of cultures, and ending with a description of the country’s commonest snakes. Most Egyptian snakes are harmless. The African egg eating snake is a widespread species with a range covering most of Africa and parts of Arabia. In Egypt it is restricted to the southern part of the Nile Valley. Reptiles and amphibians of Egypt. Among the 36 snake species, nine are poisonous and a further nine are rear-fanged snakes that are also poisonous although they are less of a risk for humans due to the necessity of getting part of the victim to the back of their jaws in order to inject venom. Snake Goddess – Wikipedia.
The Egyptian cobra is another of Egypt’s most deadly snakes. It’s also one of the largest cobra species in all of Africa, ranging from 3 to 6 1/2 feet long. The telltale hood associated with this species is extended only when the snake is threatened or annoyed, at which point its spread reaches about half a foot wide. If there’s one snake in all of Egypt most likely to be mistaken for a devil, it’s the horned viper. This highly venomous desert snake has a hornlike scale protruding above each of its eyes, giving it a truly demonic appearance.
The Egyptian Cobra (Naja haje) is a deadly venomous snake most commonly found in Egypt but also in other parts of North Africa. The Egyptian Cobra has glands located behind its eyes which produce a deadly neurotoxic venom that's released through its large fangs. Venomous snakes will often avoid humans, and if they bite they rarely inject their full venom load. 18161462@N00/Flickr/CC BY 2.0. The Black Mamba (Dendroaspis polylepis) is one of Africa's most dangerous snakes and feared in East, Central and Southern Africa.
About three dozen species of snakes live in Egypt, quite a few of them highly poisonous but most harmless to humans. They populate all possible environments, from the sandy desert to the marshy Nile delta. The attitude of the Egyptians towards them has always been ambivalent. Strabo mentions a number of Egyptian animals in his writings and was especially impressed by the snakes: The animals peculiar to the country (i.e. Egypt) are the ichneumon and the Egyptian asp, having some properties which those in other places do not possess.
Africa has some of the most dangerous and venomous snakes in the world. Get your facts and information about the Black Mamba, Boomslang, Puff Adder, Gaboon Viper, Egyptian Cobra and more of Africa's deadly snakes. Find out what the different types of snake venom will do to the victims body. Venomous snakes will often avoid humans, and if they bite they rarely inject their full venom load. 18161462@N00/Flickr/CC BY 2.0. The Black Mamba (Dendroaspis polylepis) is one of Africa's most dangerous snakes and feared in East, Central and Southern Africa.
Snakes were found throughout ancient Egypt, including the desert sands, in old walls, in fields, by the Nile and in its swamps, on threshing floors, in houses and in livestock enclosures and pastures. Poisonous snakes would have posed a threat to humans and domestic animals alike. Certainly there are snakes in Egypt, but I have not seen them pose any problem to tourists. That is not to say that tourists, particularly those who visit some of the more exotic places such as the Western Desert and the Sinai mountains, should not keep a careful eye out.
Most Egyptian snakes are harmless. The African egg eating snake is a widespread species with a range covering most of Africa and parts of Arabia. In Egypt it is restricted to the southern part of the Nile Valley. Certainly there are snakes in Egypt, but I have not seen them pose any problem to tourists. That is not to say that tourists, particularly those who visit some of the more exotic places such as the Western Desert and the Sinai mountains, should not keep a careful eye out.