Be the first to review this Drug. Nafcillin is an antibiotic in the penicillin group of drugs. It fights bacteria in your body. Nafcillin is used to treat many different types of infections, especially those caused by staphylococcus bacteria (staph infections). Nafcillin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Nafcillin Interactions. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or bloody, stop taking nafcillin and call your doctor. Do not use anti-diarrhea medicine unless your doctor tells you to.
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. 1 Sometimes, even though you don't feel well while it's happening, your body is fighting illness. 2  When the inflammatory response fails, the immune response goes to work. 3  This is the central part of the immune system and is made up of white blood cells, which fight infection by gobbling up antigens.
A delayed allergic reaction to nafcillin can occur as few as 2 days to as many as 4 weeks after you use the medication. Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  diarrhea that is watery or bloody; 2  fever, chills, body aches, flu symptoms, sores in your mouth and throat; Nafcillin Interactions. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or bloody, stop taking nafcillin and call your doctor. Do not use anti-diarrhea medicine unless your doctor tells you to.
Body systems. Our bodies consist of a number of biological systems that carry out specific functions necessary for everyday living. The job of the circulatory system is to move blood, nutrients, oxygen, carbon dioxide, and hormones, around the body. It consists of the heart, blood, blood vessels,arteries and veins. The immune system is the body's defense against bacteria, viruses and other pathogens that may be harmful. It includes lymph nodes, the spleen, bone marrow, lymphocytes (including B-cells and T-cells), the thymus and leukocytes, which are white blood cells.
Circulatory System. The heart is a hollow, muscular organ that maintains blood circulation throughout the body. Learn how the circulatory system-your heart, blood vessels and blood-bring nutrients to the body. Your body is pretty amazing. At any given point you have many biological processes going on -- circulatory, digestive, brain & central nervous systems and more. Learn about these body systems as well as the eye, ears, nose and throat.
Context. At this level, children can begin to view the body as a system, in which parts do things for other parts and for the organism as a whole. Through the use of an online interactive activity, children learn about the concept of separate components working together to build a body system. In addition, this lesson focuses on activities to help students learn that body systems work together to build the functioning human body. This activity should help teach students that organs within a system work together to make that system function, and it should be pointed out that in turn all systems function together to make the human body function. At this point, ask students to name any other body systems.
The nervous system is made up of the brain, the spinal cord, and nerves. One of the most important systems in your body, the nervous system is your body's control system. It sends, receives, and processes nerve impulses throughout the body. These nerve impulses tell your muscles and organs what to do and how to respond to the environment. 1 Sometimes, even though you don't feel well while it's happening, your body is fighting illness. 2  When the inflammatory response fails, the immune response goes to work. 3  This is the central part of the immune system and is made up of white blood cells, which fight infection by gobbling up antigens.
These hormones, in turn, travel to different tissues and regulate various bodily functions, such as metabolism, growth and sexual function. The immune system is the body's defense against bacteria, viruses and other pathogens that may be harmful. It includes lymph nodes, the spleen, bone marrow, lymphocytes (including B-cells and T-cells), the thymus and leukocytes, which are white blood cells.