Top 10 facts about the world. A microclimate is a small but distinctly different climate within a larger area. For example, in a garden, a spot that is sunny and protected from the wind will be significantly warmer than the rest of the garden for most of the year. candyquilt. Post 2. I live in a small town and we have 2-3 different microclimates here. We actually moved here 5-6 years ago and I just couldn't understand why all the locals moved from their houses near the beach to different houses just 5 minutes away in the town center during the winter months.
The climate of a small, specific place within a larger area. An area as small as a yard or park can have several different microclimates depending on how much sunlight, shade, or exposure to the wind there is at a particular spot. Translations. The climate of a small, specific place within an area as contrasted with the climate of the entire area. mi′cro·cli·mat′ic (-măt′ĭk) adj. mi′cro·cli′ma·to·log′ic (-mə-tə-lŏj′ĭk) , mi′cro·cli′ma·to·log′i·cal adj. mi′cro·cli′ma·tol′o·gy (-tŏl′ə-jē) n.
1 Generally, we take a microclimate to be the climate of a small environment such as a town, forest or garden. 2  I live in an area of microclimates, where the weather can be completely different around the corner. 3  There are also microclimates, which are differences within the normal climate of a region. noun. The climate of a very small or restricted area, especially when this differs from the climate of the surrounding area: the microclimate of the valley is fairly mild. More example sentences. 1 
Definition of MICROCLIMATE. : the essentially uniform local climate of a usually small site or habitat. — mi·cro·cli·mat·ic \ˌmī-krō-klī-ˈma-tik\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A microclimate is the distinctive climate of a small-scale area, such as a garden, park, valley or part of a city. It is these subtle differences and exceptions to the rule that make microclimates so fascinating to study, and these notes help to identify and explain the key differences which can be noticed by ground-level observations.
Get local help At your county's Cornell Cooperative Extension office. In the real world, we garden in microclimates, not hardiness zones. - Charlie Mazza, Senior Extension Associate, Cornell Univ. A microclimate is the climate of a small area that is different from the area around it. It may be warmer or colder, wetter or drier, or more or less prone to frosts. Microclimates may be quite small-a protected courtyard next to a building, for example, that is warmer than an exposed field nearby. 
The Web's Best Sites. The climate of a small area that differs from the climate of the surrounding area is called a microclimate. Local climates can vary greatly based on such factors as topography, elevation, moisture, wind, soil, and vegetation. 
A microclimate is the climate of a small and restricted area that  differs from the climate of its larger surrounding area. An example  of a microclimate is the Olympic peni … nsula in Washington. Answered. In Travel & Places. Microclimate means the climate of a small area, they can be large or small we have no controll over microclimates but we influence them ......... eg. we block the sun by build … ings. 1 person found this useful.