And it’s not just the surma that can cause problems. Surma applicators are made of metal or wood, which when unclean can cause fungal and bacterial infections in the eye. Ophthalmologist Dr Jamal Mughal with Karachi’s Akhtar Eye Hospital also warns that if parents use force to apply the kohl they can injure them too. What angers her most is the use of surma on wounds. “Parents should never apply surma to a newborn’s umbilical cord, as it can lead to infection, such as tetanus,” she warns. “Surma’s quality, especially its composition, is a mystery. We don’t know what colour particles they are using and what is the metal content of surma.”. Given that the government does not regulate how these cosmetics are made, it is not clear what goes in them
1 In the webcomic Gunnerkrigg Court, kohl is referenced by the name surma, which is the protagonist's mother's name, and the protagonist's name is antimony, an ingredient of kohl. Kohl is also applied in parts of West Africa by the Fulani and the affiliated Hausa people. In addition, it is used by the Tuareg, Wolof, Mandinka, Soninke, Dagomba, Kanuri, and other predominantly Muslim inhabitants of the Sahel and Sahara regions.
Kohl is known by various names in South Asian languages, like sirma or surma in Punjabi and Urdu, kajal in Hindi, Kajjal in Sanskrit,Kajalh in Marathi ,kanmashi in Malayalam, kaadige in Kannada, kaatuka in Telugu and kan mai in Tamil. Kohl is also applied in parts of West Africa by the Fulani and the affiliated Hausa people. In addition, it is used by the Tuareg, Wolof, Mandinka, Soninke, Dagomba, Kanuri, and other predominantly Muslim inhabitants of the Sahel and Sahara regions.
1. A piece of sang-e-surma (surma stone) is covered with the goat s fat and kept on a low fire till all the fat is completely burnt into fumes. The piece of sang-e-surma is then removed from the fire with tongs and immersed in arkh-e- gulab (rose water) or ice water .The whole process is repeated three times. 2. 2. A piece of sang-e- surma (surma stone) is immersed in arkh-e-gulab (rose water) or arkh-e-badiyan (fennel seeds) and heated till the Arqh (liquid) evaporates. This process is repeated seven times. 3. Sang-e-surma (surma stone) is immersed in Aab-e-Triphala and boiled for 12 hours.
Very often the name ' Surma ' is used for the Suri people as well, but this is wrong, a Suri would never call himself a ' Surma '. The Suri people are semi-nomadic cattle herders and live on the west side of the Omo River in the southwestern part of Ethiopia. At a diameter of about 4 cm the first lip plate made of clay can be inserted, the final diameter ranges from about 8 cm to over 20 cm. Nowadays the girls in some Surma settlements decide for themselves whether to wear a lip plate or not.
To apply Surma is a blessed Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (may Allah bless him and grant him peace). When he would go to sleep at night he would apply Surma in his blessed eyes. We should also try to practice this Sunnah as we will gain the reward and benefit in following the Sunnah and the worldly benefits too. Benefit of Surma. Ibn 'Abbas (may Allah be pleased with him) has related that the Messenger of Allah (may Allah bless him and grant him peace) said that, 'Apply antimony regularly, as it clears the sight, makes the eye lashes grow and is the best of things beautifying the eyes.'.
Kohl is an ancient eye cosmetic, traditionally made by grinding stibnite (Sb 2 S 3). It is widely used in South Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, and parts of West Africa as eyeliner to contour and/or darken the eyelids and as mascara for the eyelashes. Kohl is also applied in parts of West Africa by the Fulani and the affiliated Hausa people. In addition, it is used by the Tuareg, Wolof, Mandinka, Soninke, Dagomba, Kanuri, and other predominantly Muslim inhabitants of the Sahel and Sahara regions.
PHOTO MYRA IQBAL. The lashings of surma parents apply to their infant’s eyes could lead to anaemia, growth retardation and even kidney problems. Many people think surma or kohl is made of one of antimony’s minerals, stibnite, that was used in Egyptian cosmetics four or five thousand years ago as black eyeliner. But the truth today is that commercially produced surma has less antimony and more Lead Sulphide. What angers her most is the use of surma on wounds. “Parents should never apply surma to a newborn’s umbilical cord, as it can lead to infection, such as tetanus,” she warns. “Surma’s quality, especially its composition, is a mystery. We don’t know what colour particles they are using and what is the metal content of surma.”. Given that the government does not regulate how these cosmetics are made, it is not clear what goes in them
Khojati Surma No. 24 This Surma is a unique blend of many useful ingredients. regular use helps prevent conjunctivitis and other viral eye infections. For chronic watering and redness of the eyes this Surma is to be followed by Twinkle Eye Drops. All the other Black Surmas can be used by any one, who is above 10 Years of age. All our Surmas are Tested in the Laboratory & are developed under the Guidelines of the FDA. Khojati Sada Surma Khojati Sada Surma is ideal for maintaining health of eyes in young children below 10 y