1 If you have a cement/plaster pool you will need to resurface it every 3-7 years. 2  A fiberglass pool is far more durable and can go 15-30 years between resurfacing. 3  Follow the exact recommendations of the original installer or ask a professional to inspect your pool and make a recommendation.
Your pool should be resurfaced when it starts to look shabby or in the case of marbelite or plaster; when it gets rough and uncomfortable to walk on., when black algae becomes a problem and chemical treatment is only a temporary measure.
If your pool is showing its age, it may be time to consider pool resurfacing. Your pool may have cracks, blisters, or discolorations that a resurface will eliminate. Depending on how your pool is currently surfaced, and what you want to put on it, this may not be a viable DIY project.
The cost to resurface a gunite pool depends on your location, the  size of your pool, and exactly what you want done. On average, as  of 2014 it cost between $8,000 and $15, … 000 to resurface a pool.
1 1. 2  When to Resurface Your Swimming Pool An in-ground swimming pool is one of the most lavish and attractive features your home can have. 3  Relaxing by an in-ground pool is an act of luxury, and these classic pools are elegant and add value to your home.
A good rule of thumb when resurfacing/repainting your pool is to continue to use the same type of epoxy. If you have always used Chlorinated Rubber Pool Paint, it is best to stick with it. The next process would be to determine how many coats of coating that are ALREADY on your pool walls.
1 You should do it proactively, and never wait for cracks or damage to show up. 2  The exact frequency depends on the type of surface your pool has. 3  If you have a cement/plaster pool you will need to resurface it every 3-7 years. 4  A fiberglass pool is far more durable and can go 15-30 years between resurfacing.
1 The exact frequency depends on the type of surface your pool has. 2  If you have a cement/plaster pool you will need to resurface it every 3-7 years. 3  A fiberglass pool is far more durable and can go 15-30 years between resurfacing.
Concrete pools need resurfacing every 10-15 years. The process can be laborious, depending on the extent of wear and tear to the pool. Harsh weather, acid washing, and general public use can cause chips and cracks to appear on the pool’s surface.