SUMMARY: The Noise Control Bylaw regulates or prohibits the making of objectionable noise within the City of Kelowna that may disturb the quiet or enjoyment of other individuals. Read a first time by the Municipal Council this 29 th day of May, 1990. Read a second time by the Municipal Council this 29 th day of May, 1990. Read a thir
Consolidated bylaws. For convenience, the most frequently used bylaws have been consolidated. In a consoldiated bylaw, the original bylaw (or parent bylaw) is updated to include all of the amendments to that bylaw. There are two sections to choose from. 1  VIEW CONSOLIDATED BYLAWS. 2  SEARCH INDIVIDUAL BYLAWS
This is a consolidated bylaw prepared by The Corporation of the City of Penticton for convenience only. The city does not warrant that the information contained in this consolidation is current. It is the responsibility of the person using this consolidation to ensure that it accurately reflects current bylaw provisions. not in any way constitute a representation, warranty, assurance. or statement that the building(s) and or structure(s) to be. constructed on the land complies with the setback. requirements of the Zoning Bylaw or does not encroach upon. any of the adjoining properties.
Consolidated Bylaw No. 5421-82 – Page 5. It shall be the duty of the Poundkeeper to notify the Brand Inspector (by telephone or in writing), of the impoundment of any branded animal, and to furnish the Brand Inspector with any particulars requested by him in connection with the animal so impounded. (b) Any person who violates any of the provisions of this bylaw shall, upon summary conviction thereof, be liable to a penalty of not less than Fifty Dollars. Consolidated Bylaw No. 5421-82 – Page 11. ($50.00) or more than Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00) for each offence, plus the cost of the prosecution. 10.
Moreover by consolidating your debt you are paying one monthly payment, which is lower than all the payments you are paying to creditors. The debt consolidation agency uses this payment to pay off the actual debt and the interest on the debt. What more you expect from consolidation company. Moreover by consolidating your debt you are paying one monthly payment, which is lower than all the payments you are paying to creditors. The debt consolidation agency uses this payment to pay off the actual debt and the interest on the debt. 1 person found this useful. Answers Publisher.
3.7 Notwithstanding any provisions of this bylaw, a person may perform works of an emergency nature for the preservation or protection of life, health or property but the onus shall be on the person performing the work to show cause that the work was of an emergency nature. Read a first time by the Municipal Council this 29 th day of May, 1990. Read a second time by the Municipal Council this 29 th day of May, 1990. Read a thir
A democracy is considered consolidated when, as scholar Juan Linz suggests, it is the only game in town. What this means is that a large majority of the countries' pop … ulation accepts the democratic institutions as legitimate and thus they exist relatively unchallenged. Moreover by consolidating your debt you are paying one monthly payment, which is lower than all the payments you are paying to creditors. The debt consolidation agency uses this payment to pay off the actual debt and the interest on the debt. 1 person found this useful. Answers Publisher.
6. REPEAL 6.1 This bylaw hereby repeals Kelowna Noise Control Bylaw No. 5154-81 and amending Bylaw No. 5465-82 and Motor Boat Regulation Bylaw No. 4408-77. Read a first time by the Municipal Council this 29 th day of May, 1990. Read a second time by the Municipal Council this 29 th day of May, 1990. Read a third time by the Municipal Council this 29 th day of May, 1990.
Consolidated Bylaw No. 5421-82 – Page 4. (e) Accessory buildings and structures used to shelter or house animals or fowl (with the exception of household pets) shall be situated not less than one hundred (100) feet (30.48 metres) from all wells and streams. (b) Any person who violates any of the provisions of this bylaw shall, upon summary conviction thereof, be liable to a penalty of not less than Fifty Dollars. Consolidated Bylaw No. 5421-82 – Page 11. ($50.00) or more than Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00) for each offence, plus the cost of the prosecution. 10.
The bylaw also provides for the establishment of an animal pound and the appoint of a Poundkeeper to impound animals that are running at large. See the Dog Control bylaw for regulations regarding the licensing and control of dogs within city limits. (b) Any person who violates any of the provisions of this bylaw shall, upon summary conviction thereof, be liable to a penalty of not less than Fifty Dollars. Consolidated Bylaw No. 5421-82 – Page 11. ($50.00) or more than Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00) for each offence, plus the cost of the prosecution. 10.