This was later corrected on Frontier Developments official Elite: Dangerous Facebook account and from head of community management's reddit account. Built by Core Dynamics, the Federal Corvette is an upcoming ship in Elite: Dangerous that will require standing with the Federation in order to pilot. It is the largest player-piloted Federal ship. The Corvette will feature two huge hardpoints, and will be the first ship to be able to hold that amount. 
Mercenary Thorrn. Mercenary Thorrn. Mercenary Thorrn has been streaming Elite Dangerous for a very long time now, and is one of the better combat pilots we've seen take to the livestreaming screens. Tune in to Thorrn's channel to learn a lot about bounty hunting, piracy and making massive amounts of credits. View Channel.
Its versatile nature means that it is well suited to tackling even the most hostile environment. — In-Game Description. The Federal Dropship is the Federation Navy's workhorse ship for tactical and special forces deployments. Its versatile nature means that it is well suited to tackling even the most hostile environment. — In-Game Description. The Federal Dropship is one of the Federation 's ships and thus are generally sold at Stations that are aligned with the Federation (but has been seen at an independent shipyard). To purchase the Federal Dropship players must have earned the rank of Midshipman with the Federation's Navy. Currently this ship isn't very appealing-due to its low mobility it is dominated in combat by most other ships, cargo capacity is much lower than that of less expensive ship
#7. Cmdr. DragoRaceX Jun 13 @ 10:01am. Originally posted by CMDR BrandNarb:The Federal Corvette will probably be a little over the anoconda in price, i do think you might have to be high rank in the federation. wich i hope you dont because the ranking system is broken. frontier even admitted it. im sure it will have something like 300 cargo and maybe 5-6 hardpoints. So that is one rank below Post Commander, the previous highest federal rank, before 1.3.. #6. Brand Jun 12 @ 1:54pm. The Federal Corvette will probably be a little over the anoconda in price, i do think you might have to be high rank in the federation. wich i hope you dont because the ranking system is broken.
Originally posted by Zero:Originally posted by Pro-MVP Bluntman Ben Affleck:one day when my hand isn't broken no more i hope.well i mean, we got the fed dropship, but... yeah. Fed Dropship versus.. what is it now Empire has, the courier coming out and the clipper already out. Originally posted by Bloomoo:Yup, it's bound to be at least as detailed as the Anaconda is now, with the visible battle damage etc.{LINK REMOVED}http://www.photos-albums.com/anaconda-damage-and-inside-elite-dangerous-album24506/. Damn, will be intresting after the DLC comes out.
Elite: Dangerous has several playable ships; the developers have notated that a total of 30 playable ships will be available post-release. Here is the hierarchy of fleet-class ships that are available to the game’s major factions: Cruisers (Battle cruisers, Battleships, Interdictors) : Long range, independent ships that are capable of controlling entire systems. Heavily armed and capable of deploying large fighter squadrons.