1 Silent Mutation: Although a change in the DNA sequence occurs, this type of mutation does not change the protein that is to be produced. 2  This is because multiple genetic codons can encode for the same amino acid. 3  Amino acids are coded for by three nucleotide sets called codons. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation. Also called a base-pair substitution, this type of mutation changes a single nucleotide base pair.
This type of mutation is a change in one DNA base pair that results in the substitution of one amino acid for another in the protein made by a gene. Frameshift mutation (illustration). This type of mutation occurs when the addition or loss of DNA bases changes a gene’s reading frame. A reading frame consists of groups of 3 bases that each code for one amino acid. A frameshift mutation shifts the grouping of these bases and changes the code for amino acids
DNA and Mutations. by the Understanding Evolution team. A mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life
A new study based on genetic testing of 150,000 people has found a rare mutation that protects even fat people from getting Type 2 diabetes. The effect is so pronounced — the mutation reduces risk by two-thirds — that it provides a promising new target for developing a drug to mimic the mutation’s effect. For scientists, the result was a surprise because the same mutation that protects people from diabetes, by destroying one copy of the gene, known as ZnT8, has the opposite effect in some strains of mice. Destroying that gene actually causes diabetes in the animals.
Mutations. Mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology  all aspects of its life. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life. Mutations are random. 
Mutations are changes in the genetic sequence, and they are a main cause of diversity among organisms. These changes occur at many different levels, and they can have widely differing consequences. This article focuses on mutations in DNA, although we should keep in mind that RNA is subject to essentially the same mutation forces. If mutations occur in non-germline cells, then these changes can be categorized as somatic mutations.
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. De novo mutations may explain genetic disorders in which an affected child has a mutation in every cell in the body but the parents do not, and there is no family history of the disorder.