Reply. rated by 0 users. I have a software called On-Screen Takeoff 3 that I need to upgrade. I needed help in trying to write a powershell script to uninstall the software which is .exe (not .msi) first and then install the upgraded version which I have the .msi file for located on a network location.
if you just need to install any software automatically using powershell you can just run the silent moder of the installer from powershell. The poweshell script to run exe or msi in silent mode is: $command = “cmd.exe /c D:\MyInstaller.exe /s /v`”/qn”. $process = [WMICLASS]” \\PCName\ROOT\CIMV2:win32_process ”. $process.Create($command). Remember your installer should have silent mode on in it.
To avoid such situations and improve deployment process you probably already started using PowerShell, because it is very very flexible power tool for software deployment challenges. Recently I added some automatization for deployment process with installing msi in sequence and even without user interaction. But you can always choose what to install with UI for user’s input, silent installation without UI and optionally to wait for a msi installation to finish. In the example below msi setup is installed and PS waits till it is finished.
You can even put the PowerShell code into a script, as Install-Font.ps1 in Listing 1 shows. This means the only thing you need to do is get a collection of fonts and pipe them into Install-Font.ps1 using code such as. Note that installing fonts is a privileged operation in Windows Vista. Windows automatically recognizes fonts you drag and drop into the Fonts folder. However, if you try to install fonts by copying the file at a command prompt or through a script, you can't see them in the Fonts folder or in the Windows font listings. The problem is that fonts need to be registered.
Install msi silently with PowerShell. 1 Reply. If you have prerequisites for your application, you know how big pain is to install all of them. And after you have done multiple installations over and over again, you can feel as a monkey doing the same thing every time. But you can always choose what to install with UI for user’s input, silent installation without UI and optionally to wait for a msi installation to finish. In the example below msi setup is installed and PS waits till it is finished.
The Open File-Security Warning dialog box is displayed when you try to silently install a hotfix or an update by using a Visual Basic script in Windows XP Service Pack 2. When you try to use a Microsoft Visual Basic script to silently install a hotfix or an update on a Microsoft Windows XP Service Pack 2 (SP2)-based computer, you receive an Open File-Security Warning dialog box. Back to the top | Give Feedback.
If you’re not using a MSI install OR an EXE that has a silent install trigger you are going to need to wrap it up in a silent install package. I’ll cover that in another post another day and update this with a link to it in case you need to know how. The way I’ve chosen to start the remote process to install a piece of software is by using win32_process. You can call win32_process using the Invoke-WmiMethod cmdlet inside powershell to invoke the create method and pass it arguments.
Not everything can be installed without user interaction (silently). But you can always choose what to install with UI for user’s input, silent installation without UI and optionally to wait for a msi installation to finish. In the example below msi setup is installed and PS waits till it is finished.
July 16, 2012 powershell powershell Jonathan Medd. The following is a PowerShell wrapper for msiexec.exe that enables you to automate the installation of MSI packages. You will see in the code that I picked certain msiexec options that were required for the particular need I had, such as quiet install (/qn). The problem you are going to have with remoting in powershell running this is the classic double-hop issue of authentication with Kerberos. If you use CredSSP you could make it happen. Or if you copy the MSI to the remote workstation first, and run this script agianst that it would work.