This means that, overall, the ratio is two oxygen atoms to each silicon atom, giving the formula SiO 2. Silicon dioxide is very hard. It has a very high melting point (1,610 °C) and boiling point (2,230 °C), is insoluble in water, and does not conduct electricity. These properties result from the very strong covalent bonds that hold the silicon and oxygen atoms in the giant covalent structure. Silicon dioxide. Much of the silicon and oxygen in the Earth's crust is present as the compound silicon dioxide also known as silica. Silicon dioxide has a
TDS and Electrical Conductivity. Since the electrical conductivity is a measure to the capacity of water to conduct electrical current, it is directly related to the concentration of salts dissolved in water, and therefore to the Total Dissolved Solids (TDS). 
Electrical Conductivity: In the SiO2 solid, there are no delocalised sea of electrons (free moving electrons) as they are held tightly between the silicon and oxygen atoms. Because of this reason SiO2 is unable to conduct electricity.
Silicon is a chemical element with symbol Si and atomic number 14. It is a tetravalent metalloid, more reactive than germanium, the metalloid directly below it in the table. Controversy about silicon's character dates to its discovery; it was first prepared and characterized in pure form in 1823. Silicon is a solid at room temperature, with relatively high melting and boiling points of 1414 and 3265 °C, respectively. Like water, it has a greater density in a liquid state than in a solid state, and so, like water but unlike most substances, it does not contract when it freezes, but expands.
Best Answer: Silicon Dioxide is SiO2 one of the most abundant oxidesz found in the earths crust. It exists in 3 crystalline forms as well as amorphous forms. It is an electrical insulator. The key to CO2 in water is the water. Water itself is a conductor of electricity. Carbon and Oygen are mere gasses. The physical properties is the solution to your confusion. Try to pass electricity through sand that is silicon dioxide. It absorbs the energy where water conducts it.
Silver has the highest conductivity of any metals: 63 x 10 6 S/m. Water conductivity. Pure water is not a good conductor of electricity. Ordinary distilled water in equilibrium with carbon dioxide of the air has a conductivity of about 10 x 10 -6 W -1 *m -1 (20 dS/m). Because the electrical current is transported by the ions in solution, the conductivity increases as the concentration of ions increases. 
Silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is a chemical compound that is an oxide of silicon with the chemical formula Si O 2. It has been known since ancient times. Silica is most commonly found in nature as quartz, as well as in various living organisms. The solubility of silicon dioxide in water strongly depends on its crystalline form and is 3–4 times higher for silica than quartz; as a function of temperature, it peaks at about 340 °C.
It is the oxygen bridge bonds between silicon atoms that give SiO2 many of its unique properties. The bond angle Si-O-Si is nominally about 145 degrees, but can vary from about 100 to 170 degrees with very little change in bond energy. Crystalline silicon dioxide (in several forms: quartz, cristobalite, tridymite) is an important constituent of a great many minerals and gemstones, both in pure form and mixed with related oxides. Beach sand is mostly silica.
Chemistry. Interaction with hydrogen and water are important in semiconductor applications of silicon dioxide. Hydrides such as silane (SiH4) and DCS (SiH2Cl2) are often used as precursors for silicon dioxide deposition, and water is ubiquitous in the ambient. Some important reactions are: Crystalline silicon dioxide (in several forms: quartz, cristobalite, tridymite) is an important constituent of a great many minerals and gemstones, both in pure form and mixed with related oxides. Beach sand is mostly silica.