Sinus headache is a pain caused by sinuses obstruction due to chronic or acute inflammation. Mucus blocks sinuses entrance what gives headache. Such pain is usually located in the front of the head. Please consult laryngologist. 1 What does sinus bradycardia mean. 2  What does opacification of sinuses mean. 3  What does sinus arrhythmia mean. 4  Treatment and cure for Papulosquamous disease.
When looking at a CT of the sinuses, they should appear black meaning they're devoid of any materials. Opacification of your right frontal sinus means the sinus cavity just ab … ove your right eye is showing opaque in a CT scan which normally is a sign of inflammation or infection. Polyps and tumors will also show up opacified in the scan. If you're concerned, I would pay a visit to your local ENT. Taking a hot shower will also work in a similar way to the bowl tip. You can also drink plenty of water as this will help thin your mucous allowing it to flow correctly. You can also rinse your sinuses out with a saline solution (mixture of water and salt). You inhale saltwater through the nose and then blow it out.
Inflammation. If your scan was done during a sinus infection or if you have chronic sinus infections, your maxillary sinus was likely inflamed. This can cause the area to be opaque on a CT scan. The maxillary sinus is the cavity behind your cheeks, very close to your nose. When a CT scan is taken of the head, the sinuses should show up black since they are cavities. When the area shows up white or gray, it is called opaque or opacification of the sinus
What does opacification of sinuses mean. Premium Questions. Hello Doctor, A year ago, when I underwent an ECG it was detected as Sinus Tachycardia ... and less oil followed by exercise, after 6 months I did my ECG it came back Borderline ECG, 800 Sinus rythm ... 1 What does sinus bradycardia mean. 2  What does opacification of sinuses mean. 3  What does sinus arrhythmia mean. 4  Treatment and cure for Papulosquamous disease.
When looking at a CT of the sinuses, they should appear black meaning they're devoid of any materials. Opacification of your right frontal sinus means the sinus cavity just above your right eye is showing opaque in a CT scan which normally is a sign of inflammation or infection. Polyps and tumors will also show up opacified in the scan. If you're concerned, I would pay a visit to your local ENT. Opacification of the mastoid air cells means there is an infection  in the nasal cavity. This is when there is a mastoid inflammation  or infection and involves the mastoid … air cells. 11 people found this useful.
Hi. thanks for writing in to HCM Sinus means a cavity or space that is connected to the surface with a tract (e.g paranasal sinuses like frontal sinus, maxillary sinus). Infection of the sinus or sinus tract is called sinusitis. 1 What does sinus bradycardia mean. 2  What does opacification of sinuses mean. 3  What does sinus arrhythmia mean. 4  Treatment and cure for Papulosquamous disease.
opacification of the ethmoid air cells and portions of the frontal and sphenoid sinuses. Some ...I had sinus surgery 2 weeks ago. I couldn't find my surgeon afterwards and had to go into Emergency ... 1 What does sinus bradycardia mean. 2  What does opacification of sinuses mean. 3  What does sinus arrhythmia mean. 4  Treatment and cure for Papulosquamous disease.
I believe you mean 'What DOES opacification of the sinuses mean?' Opacification of the sinuses is the clouding of the sinus areas when viewed on a CT image. Opacification of the mastoid air cells means there is an infection  in the nasal cavity. This is when there is a mastoid inflammation  or infection and involves the mastoid … air cells. 11 people found this useful.