The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved the first generic version of Copaxone (glatiramer acetate injection), used to treat patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). Sandoz has received FDA approval to market generic glatiramer acetate in a 20 mg/1 ml daily injection. 
Its structural formula is: COPAXONE is a clear, colorless to slightly yellow, sterile, nonpyrogenic solution for subcutaneous injection. Each 1 mL of COPAXONE solution contains 20 mg or 40 mg of glatiramer acetate and the following inactive ingredient: 40 mg of mannitol. The pH of the solutions is approximately 5.5 to 7.0. Some people receiving a glatiramer injection have had a severe reaction. Tell your caregiver right away if you feel anxious, warm, itchy, tingly, or have a pounding heartbeat, tightness in your throat, or trouble breathing during the
Copaxone. Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) is an immunomodulator used to reduce the frequency of relapses in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). It is not an interferon, but may be grouped with interferon betas Avonex and Betaseron; together the three first-line treatments are sometimes known as the ABC drugs for MS. 
Copaxone. Copaxone, manufactured by Teva Marion Partners, is the brand name for a synthetic chemical used to modify the course of multiple sclerosis. The generic name of Copaxone is Glatiramer Acetate which is often shortened to GA. In early trials of the drug, it was known as Copolymer-1 and Cop-1. 
Copaxone (glatiramer acetate) is an immunomodulator used to reduce the frequency of relapses in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). It is not an interferon, but may be grouped with interferon betas Avonex and Betaseron; together the three first-line treatments are sometimes known as the ABC drugs for MS. 
Copaxone is the brand name of the injectable drug glatiramer acetate, which is used to treat symptoms of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). Copaxone is in a class of drugs known as immunomodulators, which work by stopping the body from damaging specific nerve cells. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved this medicine in 1996.
343 Reviews. Copaxone is the brand name of the injectable drug glatiramer acetate, which is used to treat symptoms of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). MS is a neurological condition where the immune system attacks the protective covering of nerves. Relapsing MS occurs when symptoms show up from time to time. Copaxone is in a class of drugs known as immunomodulators, which work by stopping the body from damaging specific nerve cells. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved this medicine in 1996.
Description. Glatiramer acetate is a synthetic protein that simulates myelin basic protein, a component of the myelin that insulates nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord. This drug seems to block myelin-damaging T-cells through a mechanism that is not completely understood. This medication is taken by injection. Glatiramer acetate is a synthetic protein that simulates myelin basic protein, a component of the myelin that insulates nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord.
Copaxone ® (glatiramer acetate) is a prescription medication approved for the treatment of certain types of multiple sclerosis (MS). Like many other MS medications, it must be taken by injection. Copaxone is injected just under the skin (subcutaneously) once a day. 