The Normal WBC Count ranges between 4,500 and 10,000 white blood cells per microliter (µL) of blood. To visualize it, a microliter is a cubic millimeter, or a cube of blood that is 1 mm in length width and height. The Normal White Blood Cells Count is expected to be high at younger age and to decrease as the person gets older. The highest count is expected to be seen at the first day of birth and gets lower as the person grows up; However, the Neutrophils and Lymphocytes are special cases.
The serum reference ranges of eosinophils are as follows: Eosinophils blood (%): 0.0-6.0 (This range may vary slightly in different laboratories.). Eosinophil blood count (absolute): 30-350. The percentage of eosinophils is multiplied by the white blood cell count to give the absolute eosinophil count. 
The fractions represent a mathematical figure since it is impossible to count less than one basophil. ‘= Normal absolute basophil count is the percent of basophils counted per 100 cells times the total white blood cell count. The normal range is 0.0 to 216 μL. *= Normal total WBC count by our method is 4600 to 10800 K μL. As Table 1 shows, the basophils in-enic group were in the accepted normal range.The lack of correlation between blood histamine and basophil count in these patients compared with previous reports is difficult to explain.
The normal range of the percentage of neutrophils is between 45% and 70%. More important than the percentage of neutrophils is the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) , which should fall between 1.0 to 8.0 k/ul. ALT is sometimes called SGPT and AST is sometimes called SGOT. The normal range of ALT levels is between 5 IU/L (International Units per Liter) and 60 IU/L. The normal range of AST levels is between 5 IU/L and 43 IU/L.
BASOPHIL A basophil is a type of white blood cell present in the blood. White blood cells help protect the body against diseases and fight infections. Basophils help protect the body against disease and infections by eating some types of bacteria, foreign substances, and other cells. The level of basophils can be too high in response to an infection from a virus. Removal of the spleen can also cause basophils to be too high. The spleen is an organ that helps fight infection and removes and destroys worn-out red blood cells. Increased estrogen can cause basophils to be too high as well.
Your doctor will sometimes schedule a Complete Blood Count (CBC) blood test to monitor your health, watch for indirect indications of disease direction, and side effects of treatment. Reference ranges and unit measurements can vary per lab. And what is normal can also vary per person and race. If your lab results are outside the normal range, we suggest that you discuss with your doctor. Often it is not the result, but the change from a previous test that is most instructive. For best comparisons of lab results, the tests should be done in the same lab
The Basophils should remain within the normal range, generally between 0% and 2%. Some clinicians believe that, as in the case of neutrophils, the absolute basophil count is more important than the percentage of basophils and should fall between 0 to 0.3 k/ul. ALT is sometimes called SGPT and AST is sometimes called SGOT. The normal range of ALT levels is between 5 IU/L (International Units per Liter) and 60 IU/L. The normal range of AST levels is between 5 IU/L and 43 IU/L.
A high number indicates allergies or parasitic infections. Eosinophil Count (Absolute) Ref. Range 30 - 600 Multiply Eosinophils% by the WBC Topic Search: details and implications: Family Practice Notebook Return to top Basophils % Ref. Range 0.0 - 2.0 Control inflammation and damage of tissues in the body. Reference ranges and unit measurements can vary per lab. And what is normal can also vary per person and race. If your lab results are outside the normal range, we suggest that you discuss with your doctor. Often it is not the result, but the change from a previous test that is most instructive.
3D Rendering of a Basophil Granulocyte. Basophil granulocytes, mostly referred to as basophils, are the least common of the granulocytes, representing about 0.01% to 0.3% of circulating white blood cells. Standard Range is 0.0 - 2.0 % via differential blood count. Basopenia (a low basophil count) is difficult to demonstrate as the normal basophil count is so low; it has been reported in association with autoimmune urticaria (a chronic itching condition). Basophilia is also uncommon but may be seen in some forms of leukaemia or lymphoma.