Basic concrete slab cost. I'll base my price on what my actual estimate would be to install a 6 thick concrete slab for one of my customers. Base cost for a 6 thick concrete slab -- $4.00 dollars per square foot --. Take the length of the concrete slab x the width of the slab to get the. total square footage. Multiply the total square footage by 4 (dollars) to get the total price. L x W x $4.00 in this example. 
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Concrete Pad! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Pad Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Pad ranges between $4.64 - $6.36 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Concrete Pads-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors. Do you need to know the average cost to install Concrete Pads in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Concrete Pad job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update
Labor. The cost to pour a concrete pad takes a big jump if you hire the pros, who charge per hour, per worker. If forming and pouring your pad takes three workers two days to complete at a cost of $30 per worker hour, it could add around $1,400 to your bill. That’s not counting concrete, reinforcement, excavation and fill sand costs.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Concrete needs to be poured about 4 inches deep. A 30ft x 30ft x 4 inch pad you would need about 11 cubic yards of concrete(this is how concrete is sold). Finished Concrete right now goes for anywhere from 120 to 150 dollars per cubic yard depending on where you live. SO thats about $1,200 to 1,500 dollars for the size your talking about, Source(s): 
The Concrete Pads estimator will provide you with up to date pricing for your area. Simply enter your zip code and the square footage, next click update and you will see a breakdown on what it should cost to have Concrete Pads installed at your home. Example: a 10 x 10 area = 100 square feet. 
In addition to the cubic yard cost, some delivery companies also have minimum purchase requirements. A cubic yard of concrete commonly runs between $80 and $165, and it’s standard to order a quarter of a yard extra in case you run short. For example, if you need 2 cubic yards to pour the pad, order 2 1/4 yards. If the pad is in a spot where a concrete truck cannot back up and dump the mix, you can order a pump truck, which can add another $300, or more, to the cost. If forming and pouring your pad takes three workers two days to complete at a cost of $30 per worker hour, it could add around $1,400 to your bill. That’s not counting concrete, reinforcement, excavation and fill sand costs.
The average cost of the additional materials, including the limestone gravel, plastic sheeting, rebar and wire mesh adds an average of $3.44 per finished square foot of concrete pad. The average cost of labor to install a concrete pad is $54.50 per hour. Some cities may require inspections and permits in order to install a concrete pad. The fees associated with the permits and inspections will add to the overall cost of the project. 1 A stamper is used to create patterns after pouring. 2  Once hardened, the concrete is sealed to enhance the look and durability of the pad. 3  It is one of the most common subtypes of concrete used for concrete pads. 4  It costs an average of $2.45 per finished square foot due to the added chemicals in the concrete mix.
1 The homewyse Concrete Pad cost estimates do not include costs for site regrading or excavation, or demolition and removal of existing hardscaping or structure(s). 2  The variation in installation costs for complex configurations (non-rectangular shape, many corners, multiple levels, etc.) can be considerable. Do you need to know the average cost to install Concrete Pads in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Concrete Pad job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Updat