Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position.
It takes 21 days to hatch an egg, but it has to be turned for the first 18 days, twice a day (one turn in the morning, and one at night). Some chickens have hatched at 21-24 d … ays, though 21 days is the main time. Chicken eggs take exactly 21 days from the date they are started incubating. Hatched naturally, most broody hens will take about 6 days to gather enough eggs and then set the nest. For the next 21 days she will seldom leave the nest except for defecating and occasionally for food and water. She will not allow the eggs to drop more than a degree or two in temperatur
Chicks take 21 days to hatch, and a clutch of eggs can take a few days to completely hatch. Mark the date on your calendar! Any adjustments that need to be made should be done at night when she is sleepiest. She will defend those eggs and baby chicks as best she can and she can peck quite hard. 
How Long Does Hatching Take. Hatching can take place over several days. For chickens, run the incubator for 24 days (3 days more than normal hatch time). For ducks and turkeys run the incubator for 32 days (4 days more than normal hatch time). It is better not to help a chick/duckling/poult crack out of its shell. If you do, they almost always die (unless you follow the instructions in the next paragraphs).
With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process. Chicken eggs take exactly 21 days from the date they are started incubating. Hatched naturally, most broody hens will take about 6 days to gather enough eggs and then set the nest. For the next 21 days she will seldom leave the nest except for defecating and occasionally for food and water. She will not allow the eggs to drop more than a degree or two in temperature
Baby peeps will hatch from their eggs about 21 days after they begin the incubation period. In an incubator, this number can be easily monitored. However, when a laying hen who hatches her own eggs, she will first lay a clutch over a period of a couple weeks and then begin sitting on them all at the same time. 
Report Abuse. 21 days my dear, 21 days it will take to hatch a chicken provided the sitting is sitting on the egg or eggs and maintains the temperature. It also depends on the climatic conditions, but 21 DAYS ARE INT'L MEASURE. azrim h · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. Generally speaking however, fertile chicken eggs which are hatched out by a hen will take 21 days before you see little faces staring at you from underneath their mamma's wings. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.