The karate belt levels vary according to the type of karate, that is, Shito-ryu, Wado-ryu, Goju-ryu, and Shotokan. The following karate belts are given in the order of the lowest rank of white to the highest rank of black. In other martial arts systems, there is a slight change in the colors of the belt. In case of Taekwondo, the colors include white, yellow, green, blue, red, and black. In another martial art form that is called Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, the colors are white, blue, purple, brown, black, and red for adults.
Black belt (martial arts). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In the predominantly Oriental (Far Eastern) tradition of martial arts, the black belt is a way to describe a graduate of a field where a practitioner's level is often marked by the color of the belt. 
Starting from white, as any other connected martial arts like karate, taekwondo belt rankings go till black, the ultimate one. White Belt (10th Kup). At this stage, the individual has no knowledge of taekwondo whatsoever, and just starts learning. A level up in this is a white belt with a yellow Stripe (9th Kup). Taekwondo Belt Levels. Taekwondo belt levels are an indication of the level of expertise of a taekwondo practitioner. Check out the text to follow for information on these belts.
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Colored belts represent levels of progress for students of martial arts. The system was pioneered in the 19th century by Dr. Jigoro Kano, considered by many as the father of modern judo. The belt system has since come to be used by other martial arts, including taekwondo and karate. A yellow belt symbolizes sunlight, a symbol of new strength and the beginning of new life. This represents the student's progress as he receives knowledge from his instructor and become stronger and more skilled. The yellow belt is used in karate and taekwondo.
Taekwondo (/ˈtaɪˈkwɒnˈdoʊ/) is a Korean martial art with a heavy emphasis on kicks. Taekwondo was developed during the 1940s and 1950s by various Korean martial artists, as a blend of the indigenous Korean fighting styles of taekkyeon, gwonbeop, and subak, with influence from foreign martial arts as well. The main international organizational bodies for Taekwondo today are the International Taekwon-Do Federation (ITF), founded by General Choi Hong Hi in 1966, and the World TaeKwonDo Federation (WTF), founded in 1973 by the KTA. Gyeorugi ([kjʌɾuɡi]), a type of full-contact sparring, has been an Olympic event since 1992.
Best Answer: There are many fanciful stories relating to the origin of the belt system. So one story goes: In the early days of martial arts, all students trained outside and, as now, wore a white belt. 
Meet other martial artists and discuss techniques & styles. Taekwondo Belt Levels. In Taekwondo, you will be awarded a series of belts as you progress towards a black belt… and beyond! Below are the belt levels used at our Taekwondo school. However, many Taekwondo school have their own belt levels and color systems so please check with your Taekwondo instructor. 
The colors include white, yellow, orange, green, blue, purple, brown, and black. In other martial arts systems, there is a slight change in the colors of the belt. In case of Taekwondo, the colors include white, yellow, green, blue, red, and black. In another martial art form that is called Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, the colors are white, blue, purple, brown, black, and red for adults. The Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu belt color system for children includes white, yellow, orange, and green
White belts are typically given to beginner students of the martial arts. White is a symbol of birth and beginning, indicating that the student is just starting to gain knowledge. White belts are used in most martial arts, including karate, taekwondo and judo. A yellow belt symbolizes sunlight, a symbol of new strength and the beginning of new life. This represents the student's progress as he receives knowledge from his instructor and become stronger and more skilled. The yellow belt is used in karate and taekwondo.
As a martial arts student improves, he receives a green belt. The green belt represents the growth of a seed that sprouts upward, becoming a plant. Like the sprout, the student is becoming something greater. Green belts can be found in karate, taekwondo and judo. A yellow belt symbolizes sunlight, a symbol of new strength and the beginning of new life. This represents the student's progress as he receives knowledge from his instructor and become stronger and more skilled. The yellow belt is used in karate and taekwondo.