If you sign up for Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) and/or Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period, your coverage start date will depend on your birthday. After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example. Mr. Green's 65th birthday is July 20, 2016. If he signs up for Medicare in April, May, or June, his coverage will start on July 1, 2016.
For most people, Medicare starts the 1st day of the month you turn age 65. You can sign up for Medicare Part A & B which covers about 80% of the costs of care. You can also sign up for a Medicare Supplement plan (Medigap) to cover the difference. Medicare along with a Medicare Supplement is great health insurance. It can start earlier if you are disabled under Social Security definitions and are receiving SSDI. It can also begin before age 65 if you have ALS (amyoptropic lateral sclerosis) or ESRD (end stage renal disease). Your Medicare Part B can begin later if you are covered under a group health insurance plan.
In the United States, Medicare is a national social insurance program, administered by the U.S. federal government since 1966, currently using about 30 private insurance companies across the United States. Medicare provides health insurance for Americans aged 65 and older who have worked and paid into the system. 
If your birthday is on the first day of the month, your coverage starts the first day of the prior month. Example. Mr. Kim's 65th birthday is July 1, 2016. If he signs up for Medicare in March, April, or May, his coverage will start on June 1, 2016. After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example. Mr. Green's 65th birthday is July 20, 2016. If he signs up for Medicare in April, May, or June, his coverage will start on
If you sign up within 6 months of your 65th birthday, your coverage will start the first day of the month you turn 65, or the month before you turn 65 (if your birthday is the first of the month). After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example. Mr. Green's 65th birthday is July 20, 2016. If he signs up for Medicare in April, May, or June, his coverage will start on July 1, 2016.
Founder, Georgia Medicare Plans, Atlanta,GA. For most people, Medicare starts when you turn age 65. It can start earlier if you are disabled under Social Security definitions and are receiving SSDI. It can also begin before age 65 if you have ALS (amyoptropic lateral sclerosis) or ESRD (end stage renal disease). Your Medicare Part B can begin later if you are covered under a group health insurance plan.
In most cases, if you don’t sign up for Medicare Part B when you’re first eligible, you’ll have to pay a late enrollment penalty for as long as you have Part B and could have a gap in your health coverage. Find out when you're eligible for Medicare. Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note.
I am age 65, still working, and covered by a grouphealth plan. If you want your Medicare coverage to begin when you turn age 65, you should. contact Social Security during the 3 months before your 65th birthday. If you wait. until your 65th birthday or later, your Part B coverage will be delayed. I am age 65, still working, and covered by a group. health plan. 
For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note.
You can sign up for Medicare beginning three months before you turn 65, and coverage can start as soon as the first day of your birthday month. The initial enrollment period lasts until three months after your 65th birthday. 