Genetic information in bacteria is stored in the sequence of DNA in two forms, that is bacterial chromosome and plasmid. The following are the properties of a bacterial chromosome. 1  Location: Within nucleoid region, not surrounded by nuclear envelope. 2  Number: 1 chromosome each cell. 
Bacterial DNA – a circular chromosome plus plasmids. The DNA of most bacteria is contained in a single circular molecule, called the bacterial chromosome. The chromosome, along with several proteins and RNA molecules, forms an irregularly shaped structure called the nucleoid. This sits in the cytoplasm of the bacterial cell. In addition to the chromosome, bacteria often contain plasmids – small circular DNA molecules. Bacteria can pick up new plasmids from other bacterial cells (during conjugation) or from the environment
This plasmid can be introduced into a bacterium by way of the process called transformation. Then, because bacteria divide rapidly, they can be used as factories to copy DNA fragments in large quantities. A plasmid is a small, circular, double-stranded DNA molecule that is distinct from a cell's chromosomal DNA. Plasmids naturally exist in bacterial cells, and they also occur in some eukaryotes. Often, the genes carried in plasmids provide bacteria with genetic advantages, such as antibiotic resistance. Plasmids have a wide range of lengths, from roughly one thousand DNA base pairs to hundreds of thousands of base pairs
Also, bacteria are prokaryotes meaning they lack a true nucleus, so their DNA is not confined t … o a nucleus like humans are. Bacteria can also have short circular extra bits called plasmids that can use to pass along certain useful bits of DNA like antibiotic resistance. DNA gyrase is a bacterial enzyme which introduces supercoils into the bacterial DNA, resulting in a highly condensed 3-dimentional struture. it is also known as Topoisomerase. Quinolones and F/Quinolones inhibit this enzyme and thus interfere with bacterial DNA replication. The enzyme is absent in humans.
DNA gyrase is an essential bacterial enzyme that catalyzes the ATP-dependent negative super-coiling of double-stranded closed-circular DNA. Gyrase belongs to a class of enzymes known as topoisomerases that are involved in the control of topological transitions of DNA. 
Also, bacteria are prokaryotes meaning they lack a true nucleus, so their DNA is not confined t … o a nucleus like humans are. Bacteria can also have short circular extra bits called plasmids that can use to pass along certain useful bits of DNA like antibiotic resistance. In order to protect the bacterial genomic DNA from its own restriction enzymes, bacterial cells employ a system, wherein methyl transferases methylate certain bases on the DNA … sequence, making them unrecognizable to the restriction enzymes. Each restriction enzyme has a methylase associated with it on the chromosome.
Above: a pilus projecting from the surface of a Gram negative bacterial cell. 'Pilus' is Latin for 'hair' (plural pili) and describes not so much hair-like bacterial appendages, but thin rod-like appendages that some bacteria have. 
Overview. Bacteria cells function quite differently from human cells, from the function of the cell as a whole, right down to the individual structures in each cell. Bacteria exist in nature as individual cells. While some bacteria work together in a group, no bacteria forms multicellular tissues. Bacterial Cell Function. In the grand scheme of things, the function of each bacterial cell begins and ends with collecting enough nutrients to survive. Bacterial cells consist of a phospholipid bilayer, and in some cases a layer of peptidoglycan.