Please help me. I had a hysterectomy a few months ago and since then instead of feeling better, i feel much much worse. I have bad headaches all the time and sometimes they turn into migraines in which I have to go to the doctor and get a shot. I feel horrible all the time like I have the flu, fever,upset stomach etc. Please help me. I had a hysterectomy a few months ago and since then instead of feeling better, i feel much much worse. I have bad headaches all the time and sometimes they turn into migraines in which I have to go to the doctor and get a shot. I feel horrible all the time like I have the flu, fever,upset stomach...
Is it common to suffer headaches after a total hysterectomy? I had mine on 8-15-06 and for the last week i have a headache daily. 
20 answers. I had a preventative hysterectomy 6 weeks ago, due to high risk of cancer. I had breast cancer almost 2 years ago now and can not take hormones because my cancer was hormone sensitive. Ever since the hysterectomy, I have an almost constant headache. I use to get 1 migraine a month prior to my period. I used to get body migraines when I had my period and then after my hysterectomy. A doctor finally showed me the migraine diet.. Try eleminating caffeine, dairy, chocolate and bananas. After two weeks, add one category back to your diet at a time.
Yes: An abdominal hysterectomy is a major operation. Headache would not be uncommon. I'm guessing your physician prescribed you some Ibuprofen for pain, you can try that for headache as well. Kept ovaries, but having hot flashes, weight gain and headaches. 6. Get help from a doctor now ›. Probably normal: Recovery from surgery can include many symptoms, and different individuals have different symptoms. Weight gain is not at all unusual following hysterectomy. If your symptoms are very uncomfortable you should see your doctor. Otherwise, try to relax and allow your mind and body to recover
Migraines after partial hysterectomy. I had a partial hysterectomy (still have my cervix and ovaries) exactly three weeks ago today. In addition to massive GI complications I have been having horrible migraines!!! I can totally relate to you and am desperate for answers if you have gotten any. I had a partial hysterectomy in 2003. I have both ovaries and my cervix. Prior to my hysterectomy I was on birth control pills from the time I was 18 until 38. I had severe endometriosis. I started experiencing headaches shortly before my
Hi Sharon, I had a vaginal hysterectomy 3 weeks ago. Everything went fine but after the operation I had severe back pain and the could not stay in bed after I was discharge. A week ago I got this headache out of the blue. I thought it’s because I’m fasting. 
10 weeks post hysterectomy. 6. Get help from a doctor now ›. Probably normal: Recovery from surgery can include many symptoms, and different individuals have different symptoms. Weight gain is not at all unusual following hysterectomy. If your symptoms are very uncomfortable you should see your doctor. Otherwise, try to relax and allow your mind and body to recover. Kept ovaries, but having hot flashes, weight gain and headaches. 6. Get help from a doctor now ›. Probably normal: Recovery from surgery can include many symptoms, and different individuals have different symptoms.
Depending on the type of hysterectomy you have, your doctor may recommend waiting six to eight weeks before resuming sexual activity or putting anything in your vagina, such as a tampon. Use a sanitary pad if you experience any bleeding or discharge after the procedure, which is normal during hysterectomy recovery. 
Hi Ladies, Have been having continuous headaches off and on since my hysterectomy in June. I am on bioidentical HRT..the headaches (and anxiety) got worse as I upped the small dosage I was on. Last week changed creme combination..initally less headache but theyre back again... 