Brief History of the Breed The Belgian, as the name implies, is native to the country of Belgium. This little country is blessed with a fertile soil and abundant rainfall providing the thrifty farmers of Belgium with the excellent pastures and the hay and grain necessary to develop a heavy, powerful breed of horse. 
Characteristics [edit]. The Belgian Heavy Draft horse stands between 16.2 and 17 hands (66 and 68 inches, 168 and 173 cm). On average the Belgian grows to weigh slightly over 900 kilograms (2,000 pounds). Most American Belgians are a light chestnut with a flaxen mane and tail. The head is relatively small and well-shaped. American Belgians in North America are not as large as the European Brabant but is of a similar build. Currently, the world's tallest horse is a Belgian Draft horse named Big Jake, a gelding born in 2000. He stands 20.2 ⁄4 hands (82.75 inches, 210 cm) tall.
In the late 19th century and early 20th century, thousands of draft horses were imported from Western Europe into the United States. Percherons came from France, Belgians from Belgium, Shires from England, Clydesdales from Scotland. Many American draft registries were founded in the late 19th century. The Percheron, with 40,000 broodmares registered as of 1915, was America’s most numerous draft breed at the turn of the 20th century.
Therefore, the Belgian Draft is taller than most horse breeds. Weight: The Belgian Draft weighs 2,000 pounds, which is 975 pounds heavier than the average horse breed. Life: Most horse breeds tend to live between 25 and 30 years. Not surprisingly, the Belgian Draft has a life expectancy in line with other horses. 
ORIGIN. The Belgian Draft Horse is descended from the war horse of the Middle Ages. Its location of origin is Brabant, in what is now Belgium. Belgians, as the breed is known in America, differ slightly from its European ancestor the Brabant. The Belgian Draft Horse is called the Brabant horse in Europe, and in America it is called the Belgian. The Belgian is the descendant of the type of horse used by knights as war horses. Richard the Lionhearted imported many Belgians to England
A draft horse is a workhorse, typically larger than the pleasure or riding breeds. Draft breeds originated in Europe and did not come to the United States in significant numbers until after the Civil War. Belgian, Clydesdale, Percheron, and Shire comprise the four major draft horse breeds. In addition, there are a number of breeds of slightly smaller dual purpose horses  bred for work and pleasure.
A number of horse breeds are used as draft horses, with the popularity of a given breed often closely linked to geographic location. In North America, the classic list of draft horse breeds was five: Belgian, Clydesdale, Percheron, Shire, and Suffolk. The Draft Cross Breeders and Owners Association recognizes 34 breeds as draft horses: Percherons came from France, Belgians from Belgium, Shires from England, Clydesdales from Scotland. Many American draft registries were founded in the late 19th century. The Percheron, with 40,000 broodmares registered as of 1915, was America’s most numerous draft breed at the turn of the 20
ORIGIN. The Belgian Draft Horse is descended from the war horse of the Middle Ages. Its location of origin is Brabant, in what is now Belgium. Belgians, as the breed is known in America, differ slightly from its European ancestor the Brabant. History shows that Belgians are direct lineal descendants of the Great Horse of medieval times. The Belgian, as the name implies, is native to the country of Belgium.