To make qualified distributions from a Roth IRA, you must be at least 59½ and it must be at least five years since you first began contributing. And if you converted a regular IRA to a Roth IRA, you can't take out the money penalty-free until at least five years after the conversion. Generally, you may withdraw your contributions to a Roth penalty-free at any time for any reason, as long as you don't withdraw any earnings on your investments (as opposed to the amount you put in) or dollars converted from a traditional IRA before age 59 ½. In that case, you'll get hit with that same 10% penalty.
Roth IRAs have different withdrawal rules. Because Roth contributions are made with post-tax money, you can withdraw them at any time with no tax and no penalty. However, if Roth contributions were rolled over from a traditional IRA, you can't withdraw them for five years or the 10 percent penalty will apply. With a Roth, you pay taxes before you contribute and will only owe taxes on the earnings, not your contributions, when you withdraw money. You can withdraw money without penalty from a traditional IRA once you reach age 59 1/2, and you must begin taking money out at 70 1/2. Withdrawals before 59 1/2 may be subject to a 10 percent penalty from the Internal Revenue Service
You can also withdraw money from a traditional IRA and avoid paying the 10% penalty if you roll the money over into another qualified retirement account (such as a Roth IRA) within 60 days. But then you wouldn't actually be able to spend it. 
You should not mix Roth IRA funds with the other types of IRAs. If you do, the Roth IRA funds will become taxable. Regular Income Tax Only: Voluntary On-Time Withdrawal/Traditional IRAs and Other Non-Roth IRAs. Once you reach age 59½, you can withdraw money without a 10% penalty from any type of IRA. If it's a Roth IRA, you won't owe any income tax. If it's not you will. If the money is deposited in a traditional IRA, SEP IRA, Simple IRA or SARSEP IRA you will owe taxes at your current tax rate on the amount you take out. 
If you are under 59 ½: If you withdraw any money from a traditional IRA, you'll be slapped with a 10% penalty on the amount you withdraw. That's in addition to the regular income tax you'll owe on your withdrawal. Bad idea. Roth IRAs offer a bit more flexibility. Generally, you may withdraw your contributions to a Roth penalty-free at any time for any reason, as long as you don't withdraw any earnings on your investments (as opposed to the amount you put in) or dollars converted from a traditional IRA before age 59 ½. In that case, you'll get hit with that same 10% penalty.
+ More. If you withdraw money from your individual retirement account before age 59 1/2, you will generally have to pay a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn. Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2. [Read: How to Save for Retirement on a Small Salary.].
When it's time to take money out of your 401(k) or IRA, the magic number is 59 A½. â½'that s the age at which you can withdraw money from a retirement plan without handing THE irs a10 % bonus on top of the regular taxes you will. owe Both taxes and the 10% penalty apply to the earnings on your contributions, though, until your odometer hits 59 1/2 and you've had the money socked away for five years (with a few exceptions, below).