To apply for a motorcycle license you must be at least 16 years old and, if under the age of 18, must have held an instruction permit for a minimum of 6 months. If you are under 18 years of age, you must have parental consent to obtain your license. Licenses are valid for five years and expire on your birthday. At 16, you can apply for your motorcycle license (M1 or M3), but you must have had an instruction permit for at least 6 months. If you are under 18, your parents must give permission before you can get any permit or license.
Motorcycle instruction permits. To apply for a motorcycle instruction permit, you must: 1  Be at least 16 years old. 2  Have a valid WA State driver license. 3  Pass the motorcycle operation knowledge test. 4  If you’re under 18, your parent or guardian must sign the consent form
Missouri Motorcycle Instruction Permit. If you are not yet an adult with a full MO driver’s license, you need a Class M permit in order to ride your motorcycle on public roadways in MO. You must be at least 15 1/2 years old to apply for a permit. Requirements and restrictions for permits will vary for applicants, based on age. Once you are 18 years old, you are eligible for a full Class M motorcycle license for drivers under 21 years old. The GDL requirements until you turn 21 years old include the following: 1  You must be at least 18 years old. ( 2 However, you can apply anytime within the 30 days before your 18 th birthday).
Motorcycle Only License. To get a Motorcycle Only license you must be at least 16 years old and have held a learners permit for at least a year with no traffic convictions. If you are over 18 you are not required to have held a learners permit. Starting on July 1, 2008 the State of Florida requires that new Motorcyclists (regardless of age) must take and pass the Basic Rider Course through the Florida Rider Training Program before they get a motorcycle only license or can have the Motorcycle Endorsement added to their drivers license.
At 14, you can apply for a scooter license (M2 permit) and or an instruction permit. At 16, you can apply for your motorcycle license (M1 or M3), but you must have had an instruction permit for at least 6 months. If you are under 18, your parents must give permission before you can get any permit or license.
Application Requirements for Minors. Applicants must be at least 15 years of age and may be restricted to operating a motorcycle with no more than a 250 cubic centimeter piston displacement. This restriction can be removed on the applicants 16th birthday. To apply for a Class M license, a minor must: 
Obtaining a Motorcycle License. The process of obtaining a motorcycle (class M) license varies considerably depending upon several factors including your age (under 18 years of age, or 18 years of age and older), your current license (if any), and whether you’ve held a motorcycle license in the past. 
Class M-Motorcycle Beginner Permit. A motorcycle beginner's permit allows you to practice driving a motorcycle or motor scooter while an experienced licensed driver supervises you. To get a Class M Beginner's Permit: 1  You must be at least 15 years old. 2  You must bring your birth certificate, social security card, proof of residency and insurance information. 3  Review our Accepted Forms of Identification for more information. To get a Class D Beginner's Permit: 1  You must be at least 15 years old. 2  You must bring your birth certificate, social security card, and proof of residency
If you are at least 16 years old when you apply for your Missouri motorcycle instruction permit, the motorcycle rider training course is NOT required; however, the requirements of the Missouri Graduated Driver License program (GDL) will apply if you are under 18 years old. To obtain a Class M permit, you will need to: Once you are 18 years old, you are eligible for a full Class M motorcycle license for drivers under 21 years old. The GDL requirements until you turn 21 years old include the following: 1  You must be at least 18 years old. ( 2 However, you can apply anytime within the 30 days before your 18 th birthday).