Historically, protozoa were defined as single-celled organisms with animal-like behaviors, such as motility and predation. The group was regarded as the zoological counterpart to the  protophyta , which were considered to be plant-like, as they are capable of photosynthesis. As predators, they prey upon unicellular or filamentous algae, bacteria, and microfungi. Protozoan species include both herbivores and consumers in the decomposer link of the food chain. They also control bacteria populations and biomass to some extent.
Protozoa. Protozoa are an exceedingly diverse group of single celled, eukaryotic organisms. Pathogenic protozoa are referred to as parasites and cause a wide array of clinical diseases. They are broadly divided into: Intestinal protozoa e.g. Entamoeba histolytica, Giardia lamblia and Cryptosporidium parvum.
Thus, the ecological role of protozoa in the transfer of bacterial and algal production to successive trophic levels is important. As predators, they prey upon unicellular or filamentous algae, bacteria, and microfungi. Protozoan species include both herbivores and consumers in the decomposer link of the food chain. They also control bacteria populations and biomass to some extent. On average, protozoa eat ~ 100 to 1,000 bacteria per hour
Familiar examples of protists with a pellicle are the euglenoids and the ciliate Paramecium. In some protozoa, the pellicle hosts epibiotic bacteria that adhere to the surface by their fimbriae or attachment pili . As predators, they prey upon unicellular or filamentous algae, bacteria, and microfungi. Protozoan species include both herbivores and consumers in the decomposer link of the food chain. They also control bacteria populations and biomass to some extent.
Protozoa. Protozoa are microscopic, one-celled organisms that can be free-living or parasitic in nature. They are able to multiply in humans, which contributes to their survival and also permits serious infections to develop from just a single organism. Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite. Credit CDC.
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite. Credit CDC.
Protozoa is one of the main groups of the Kingdom: Protista, which consists of unicellular eukaryotic organisms of a diverse array. Protozoans include organisms related to both animals and plants. Therefore, they have been termed as either phylum or division. Majority of protozoans are motile; ciliates, flagellates, and amoeboids move using their cilia, flagella, or pseudopodia respectively. A significant portion of the protozoans being heterotrophic, they move energy into their consumers from bacteria and algal production.
They are single-celled parasites that are commonly found in the intestine but never cause illness. They do not harm the body, even in people with weak immune systems. The nonpathogenic intestinal protozoa include: 1  Chilomastix mesnili. 2  Endolimax nana. 3  Entamoeba coli. 4  Entamoeba dispar. 5  Entamoeba hartmanni. 6  Entamoeba polecki. 