Endone is a medicine used to relieve moderate-severe pain. It may be prescribed by a doctor for either short-or long-term use. A doctor will only prescribe Endone for patients who have unsuccessfully tried to relieve pain using other, non-narcotic painkillers.
Do not take ENDONE if you have an allergy to: 1  any medicine containing oxycodone hydrochloride. 2  any of the ingredients listed at the end of this leaflet. 3  any other similar medicine known as narcotic analgesics e.g. morphine, codeine, opium.
Keep ENDONE tablets in their container until it is time to take them. If you take them out of their container, they may not keep as well. Keep ENDONE tablets in a cool, dry place where the temperature stays below 30°C. Do not store it or any other medication in the bathroom or near a sink.
Endone takes 10-15 minutes to start working and relieves pain for 3-6 hours. Always try to take Endone at the correct time. If you miss a dose, you can take it 2-3 hours after the scheduled time, but do not take the missed dose within 2-3 hours of the time at which the next Endone dose is due.
Do not take ENDONE if you have an allergy to: 1  any medicine containing oxycodone hydrochloride. 2  any of the ingredients listed at the end of this leaflet. 3  any other similar medicine known as narcotic analgesics e.g. morphine, codeine, opium.
Your doctor will determine the correct dose of Endone for you, depending on the nature (chronic or acute) and extent (moderate or severe) of the pain. Endone is an oral medication. Each tablet contains 5 mg of oxycodone hydrochloride, the ingredient which works to relieve pain. Tablets should be taken whole.
Endone is a painkiller. It’s the brand name of a medicine containing the active ingredient Oxycodone hydrochloride. Some other brands of oxycodone include OxyContin (a slow release tablet) and OxyNorm (a liquid form). Endone is a narcotic, like morphine, heroin and codeine.
Endone is one of a group of drugs known as opioid analgesics. Its active ingredient is an opioid called oxycodone hydrochloride. Opioids are also produced naturally by the human body. They affect the way the body responds to pain.