Certified Astrologer; NCGR Member. Aries is known for a bevy of traits, and many of those characteristics are truly unique to this sign and come from her placement in the zodiac. In fact, Aries’ native first house in the zodiac wheel dictates much of the personality traits this sign often expresses
ABOUT THE AUTHOR: Aries is the first sign of the astrological year and is known by its astrological symbol, the Ram. Aries individuals are willful, positive, and independent. People born under this sign have amazing stamina and a potent drive to succeed. 
Aries is known to be the first of the zodiac signs as the 21st of March is the spring equinox. The ram is the sign of Aries. Whoever falls under this sign is known to be pioneers in action as well as in thought. Aries people are known not to shy away from a challenge and there is nothing that they cannot handle. Thanks to these Aries traits, the ram won't think twice before drawing people towards something so they can be involved in what is happening. When they take charge, others feel at ease. There is a sense of relaxation when the Aries steps onto the scene.
What are the most common Aries characteristics? Those born with the Sun in Aries tend to be very physical, competitive, combative, guileless, and dominate. The Aries zodiac sign is defined by the planet Mars, the element of fire, and the symbol of the ram. 
The positive traits of Aries: one of the biggest traits of Aries people is that they are always enthusiastic about helping other people. In addition, they will try their best to prove their abilities in work so that their bosses and co-workers can admit their talents. The negative traits of Aries: In jobs, Aries people tend to dominate other people whose statuses are lower than their ones. This can harm their reputation. If you are one of their employees, do not try to argue with them.
Aries personalities are independent. Being the first of the zodiac signs, they venture out and are go-getters, often leading the way. Their upbeat and magnetic personality often entices others to follow their lead because Aries personalities bring excitement into others lives.
The Aries man personality traits shows that he loves a challenge. It’s just another way for him to prove himself. It is rare that an Aries male will turn down an opportunity, or even a bet. Competitive activities are some of the Aries man’s favorite. 
Aries personality traits. Aries are action people, born to initiate and lead. This makes for an exciting and dynamic personality. Their main strength is their courage to face life's challenges head on, and ability to inspire others.
Aries has the honor of being the first sign of the zodiac cycle. Members born under the sign of Aries often possess strong and powerful characters. They often have a strong sense of purpose and move forward with great zeal. Indomitable energy and indefatigability are the characteristic traits that mark Aries. Aries Strengths. There are certain characteristics traits which mark an Aries separate from the other zodiac signs. Aries are known for their strength and courage. Aries faces the challenges of life without fear.
Aries is the first of the zodiac signs. Aries is the sign of the self, people born under this sign strongly project their personalities onto others and can be very self-oriented. Aries tend to venture out into the world and leave impressions on others that they are exciting, vibrant and talkative. Being the first of the zodiac signs, they venture out and are go-getters, often leading the way. Their upbeat and magnetic personality often entices others to follow their lead because Aries personalities bring excitement into others lives.