Celtic knot meanings have become so important that many people wear these powerful symbols everyday in jewelry and tattoos. Their enigmatic, maze-like patterns have always been a source of fascination. Avoiding this endless source of design inspiration due to the seeming complexity of Celtic knots is a mistake. 
Celtic Knots in Celtic Symbol Meaning. Celtic knots are perhaps the most identifiable of all Celtic symbols and held great meaning. The strands that made up a knot were intertwined with one another which symbolized protection and unity. One of the earliest Celtic symbols that today has great meaning is the tree of life. So powerful is this symbol that it has transgressed cultures. Yet its meaning is rooted in Celtic symbology. The druids and Celts believed trees were living entities endowed with great powers.
The Celtic knot symbol, is also referred to as the. The more spiritual meaning of this symbol points towards beginnings and endings. When viewing these beautiful knots, we cannot see a beginning or the end, reminding us of the timeless nature of our spirit. Celtic knots with more than a single path interwoven, can be seen as metaphors for life, and are frequently referred to as “love knots.”. Celtic knots started appearing in history after about 450 AD; the Celtic knots meaning is often hard to determine, because there is little written history on their purpose.
They believed in the interconnectedness of man and his surroundings and used symbols as a way to illustrate it. Celtic symbols with meaning were a way to continue their traditions and explain their interlacing and intricate relationship with that around them. One of the earliest Celtic symbols that today has great meaning is the tree of life. So powerful is this symbol that it has transgressed cultures. Yet its meaning is rooted in Celtic symbology. The druids and Celts believed trees were living entities endowed with great powers.
For centuries, Celtic symbols and signs held incredible power for the ancient Celts in every way of life. Today, we can learn about this power and utilize it by learning the language of Celtic symbols. The word Celtic refers to people who lived in Britain and Western Europe from 500 BC and 400 AD. Celts were of the Iron Age and lived in small villages which were led by warrior chiefs. The written records remaining from the Celts of Europe are scant, therefore signs and symbols can be hard to determine and trac
The triquetra is a three part ancient symbol comprised of three interlocked vesica pices, often used to represent people or concepts in groups of three. Also known as the trinity knot and Celtic triangle, it has been found in Celtic art, paganism and also has been used in Christianity. The triquetra symbol has been found on stones, in northern Europe, that date back to before 1,000 AD.
Combined with a Celtic trinity knot it is a true testament to the enduring bond between a mother, her child, faith and their Celtic heritage. The Celtic motherhood symbol looks like 2 hearts made out of knot work. One heart is lower than the first heart and both hearts are intertwined in a continuous knot. Celtic knots with more than a single path interwoven, can be seen as metaphors for life, and are frequently referred to as “love knots.”. Celtic knots started appearing in history after about 450 AD; the Celtic knots meaning is often hard to determine, because there is little written history on their purpose.
The Celtic Symbols and Meanings are a collection of stories, interpretations, and beliefs gathered from various sources including Irish and Scottish Artist, Dictionaries, and found throughout modern culture. You can see a thousand variations of the Celtic Knot Work, but it's still based on the art, carvings and manuscripts left behind. The Celtic Knot Work-Celtic knots are a variety of knots and stylized graphical representations of knots used for decoration, used extensively in the Celtic style of insular art.
Celtic Symbols and Their Meanings. Welcome to our celtic symbols page. The celts had a lot of symbols in their lore, this page features some of the most popular knots, and symbols that the celtic people recognized and used in their symbolism. Included below are pictures along with the descriptions and meanings of the symbols. Here are a few of the meanings of celtic knots. The Eternity Celtic knot symbolizes the never-ending eternal circle of life. The Shield Celtic knot is a symbol for protection. The ancient Celts used it to decorate the shields of warriors, the clothing of children, and to protect the sick.