a) True b) False. Truffles are underground fruiting bodies of some Ascomycota. a) True b) False. The reason we put the fungus that causes athlete's foot into the Division Deuteromycota is because there is no sexual stage in the life cycle. Slime molds are logically placed in the Kingdom Fungi because they: a) have a multicellular stage, are heterotrophic, and form sporangia b) are eukayotic and non-photosynthetic c) form hyphae d) have both asexual and sexual phases in their life cycle e) have chitinous cell walls.
So, really, lichens are effectively photosynthetic in the same sense plants are. But are a composite organism composed of a fungus (nonphotosynthetic) and cyanobacteria (photosynthetic), instead of a single organism. In fungi we can find mushrooms, toadstools, yeasts, molds and more. … According to the newest classification, fungi are eukaryotic (genetic material surrounded by a membrane, i.e nucleus), haploid (only one set of cromosomes) or diploid (two sets of cromosomes) that make zygotic meiosis.
According To definition of Lichens: Lichens are symbiotic associations of a fungus with the photosynthetic partner called as phycobiont such as green algae or cyanobacteria. Again, The two organisms live in close association with each other and both get benefit from this kind of association, this is called Symbiotic Association. By the way, Parasitic relation means living in or on another organism (host) and causing harm to it.
A symbiotic association between a fungus and a photosynthetic organism is a(an) 3. The reproductive structure that develops from mycelia growing underground is a(an) . 4. The body of a multicellular fungus composed of many hyphae tangled together into a thick mass is a(an) 5. Associations of plant roots and fungi are 6. Circle the letter of each sentence that is true about sexual reproduction in fungi. a. The zygote is often the only diploid cell in the fungus's entire life cycle. b. Mating types are called male and female. c. Gametes of both mating types are about the same size.
Most commonly, fungi are saprophytic in nutrition, i.e., they derive nutrition from dead and decaying organic matter. BUT: Lichens are a form of fungus that host cyanobacteria to conduct photosynthesis... except the cyanobacteria have evolved to be dependent on their fungal hosts, and therefore are symbiotes. Plants, likewise, do not directly conduct photosynthesis. In fungi we can find mushrooms, toadstools, yeasts, molds and more. … According to the newest classification, fungi are eukaryotic (genetic material surrounded by a membrane, i.e nucleus), haploid (only one set of cromosomes) or diploid (two sets of cromosomes) that make zygotic meiosis.
4. Fungi have cell walls made of chitin. The cellwalls of fungi are built of polysaccharides (chains ofsugars) and chitin, the same tough material a crabshell is made of. The cell walls of plants are made ofcellulose, also a strong building material. 5. Fungi have nuclear mitosis. Mitosis in fungi isdifferent from that in plants or most other eukaryotesin one key respect: the nuclear envelope does notbreak down and re-form. Instead, mitosis takes place within the nucleus.
Fungi are more closely related to plants than to animals. a) True b) False. A monophytetic hypothesis of the origin of the fungi could not state that the Ascomycota and Basidiomycota arose separately from the protozoa. Slime molds are logically placed in the Kingdom Fungi because they: a) have a multicellular stage, are heterotrophic, and form sporangia b) are eukayotic and non-photosynthetic c) form hyphae d) have both asexual and sexual phases in their life cycle e) have chitinous cell walls.
. A collective mass of these is known as a. Cross walls within these structures are known as. Coenocytic fungi lack cell walls. True/False. Describe mychorrhizae including their lifestyle, specialized structures, and the types. Describe sexual reproduction in Fungi. A mycelium with two different nuclei is called or. Unicellular parasites of animals and protists that contain derived mitochondria and are considered to be close relatives of fungi are called. The mutualistic association between a fungus and a photosynthetic organism is called a lichen. 