Butylated Hydroxytoluene-BHT, and Butylated Hydroxyanisole-BHA what do they do? These two closely related chemicals are added to oil-containing foods to prevent spoilage in foods that contain oil or shortening. They are also used to preserve breakfast cereals such as Mini-Wheats (whose label the above photo is from). 
It is also used as a yeast de-foaming agent. BHA is found in butter, meats, cereals, chewing gum, baked goods, snack foods, dehydrated potatoes, and beer. It is also found in animal feed, food packaging, cosmetics, rubber products, and petroleum products. BHT also prevents oxidative rancidity of fats.
Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) is a food additive used as a preservative, and when it appears on food labels, it indicates that the manufacturer is concerned about the potential for the food to go rancid. It is also used as a preservative in a number of other things, ranging from cosmetics to jet fuel. 
Where to find animal fats. Animal fats are such things as lard, tallow, chicken, duck and goose fat or beef drippings. Lard is the fat of pigs, tallow and drippings are the fat of beef. Either can be rendered in the same ways. Tallow is a harder fat and is good for deep frying, lard is especially good for baked goods, but either can be used interchangeably. LardBuy lard that does not have BHT in it
A wide variety of foods contain BHA, including chips and preserved meats. It is also added to fats and to foods that contain fats and is allowed as a preservative in flavoring. Look for BHA on product labels and avoid it. Use EWG’s Food Scores to find foods without butylated hydroxyanisole. Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) is a chemical cousin to BHA that is also listed as “generally recognized as safe.” It, too, is added to food as a preservative. The two compounds act synergistically and are often used together.
Lard is pig fat in both its rendered and unrendered forms. Lard was commonly used in many cuisines as a cooking fat or shortening, or as a spread similar to butter. Its use in contemporary cuisine has diminished, but many contemporary cooks and bakers still favor it over other fats for select uses. Industrially-produced lard, including much of the lard sold in supermarkets, is rendered from a mixture of high and low quality fat sources from throughout the pig. To improve stability at room temperature, lard is often hydrogenated.
Butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and the related compound butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) are phenolic compounds that are often added to foods to preserve fats. BHA Characteristics: 1  BHA is a mixture of the isomers 3- tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole and 2- tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole. BHA is found in butter, meats, cereals, chewing gum, baked goods, snack foods, dehydrated potatoes, and beer. It is also found in animal feed, food packaging, cosmetics, rubber products, and petroleum products. BHT also prevents oxidative rancidity of fats.
Here's a hint: It's a preservative, and you can find it in (drum roll, please): potato chips, lard, butter, cereal, instant mashed potatoes, preserved meat, beer, baked goods, dry beverage and dessert mixes, chewing gum, and other foods. Oh, also: rubber, petroleum products, and, of course, wax food packaging. The molecule in question is butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), and it appears in so many products because it's a potent antioxidant. 
It wasn't butter. Nor canola oil. And definitely not extra virgin olive oil. Lard -- rendered pig fat -- was what people used when they needed to make pastry; when dinner needed frying; and even as a quick breakfast, eaten smeared on a piece of bread. So much has changed in our recent history. Lard is not only out of favor, it's even considered a derogatory word