Chaparral (Shrubland): This biome is usually found surrounding deserts and grasslands, such as in southern California, Chile, Mexico, areas surrounding the Mediterranean Sea, and southwest parts of Africa and Australia. Shrublands receive more rain than deserts and grasslands, but less than forest biomes. One biome that is threatened is the Grassland biome. This ecosystem is threatened mainly by urbanization, but also from lack of fire. Fire control has become a problem in many ecosystems, as many plant species require fire to set seed and fire helps to keep other unwanted plant species from taking over.
The major biomes include: Rainforest, Tundra, Taiga, Deciduous Temperate forest, Desert, Chaparral, Grassland, Freshwater, and Marine. The plant and animal species that live in each biome have special adaptations that help them survive the conditions of that biome. One biome that is threatened is the Grassland biome. This ecosystem is threatened mainly by urbanization, but also from lack of fire. Fire control has become a problem in many ecosystems, as many plant species require fire to set seed and fire helps to keep other unwanted plant species from taking over.
Temperate grassland. Temperate grasslands are characterized as having grasses as the dominant vegetation. Trees and large shrubs are absent. Temperatures vary more from summer to winter, and the amount of rainfall is less in temperate grasslands than in savannas. Grasslands are characterized as lands dominated by grasses rather than large shrubs or trees. In the Miocene and Pliocene Epochs, which spanned a period of about 25 million years, mountains rose in western North America and created a continental climate favorable to grasslands.
By Richard. Grasslands are big open spaces. There are not many bushes in the grassland. Trees are found only by rivers and streams. The grassland seems like an endless ocean of grass.Grasslands receive about 10 to 30 inches of rain per year. If they received more rain, the grasslands would become a forest. 
The climate and geography of a region determines what type of biome can exist in that region. Major biomes include deserts, forests, grasslands, tundra, and several types of aquatic environments. Each biome consists of many ecosystems whose communities have adapted to the small differences in climate and the environment inside the biome. All living things are closely related to their environment. To understand a world biome, you need to know: What the climate of the region is like. Where each biome is found and and what its geography is like. The special adaptations of the vegetation. The types of animals found in the biome and their physical and behavioral adaptations
PLANTS: Grasses dominate temperate grasslands. Trees and large shrubs are rarely found in grassland areas. There are many species of grasses that live in this biome, including, purple needlegrass, wild oats, foxtail, ryegrass, and buffalo grass. Many animals munch on these grasses, but they survive because the growth point on the grasses is very close to the ground. LOCATION: The name for this biome, temperate grasslands, is a great description for what it is like here. The most important plants in this biome are grasses! Temperate grasslands have some of the darkest, richest soils in the world (not in wealth, but in nutrients).
These biomes include the tropical forest, savanna, desert, chaparral, grassland, temperate forest, taiga or boreal forest, and tundra. Each biome is distinctive due to the amount of annual precipitation, number of frost-free days and other physical and biological factors. 
Grassland Biome Facts. Grassland biomes are made mostly of grasses. They are said to be between a forest and a desert when it comes to rainfall. They do not receive enough rainfall to grow trees like a forest but they contain lots of grass so they receive more rain than a desert. Interesting Grassland Biome Facts: Grasslands are also known as prairies, pampas, steppes, and savannas.