1 Packages between $1,000-$3,000 may include an additional photographer and up to 8 hours of coverage, plus special albums, parents albums or photo books, though for some photographers, the fee will cover only the photography.
1 Depending on how far a photographer travels to cover an event, he or she may charge a travel fee billed by the mile or by the hour. 2  For example, Kevin Gourley in Austin, TX, charges a base travel fee of $45 (up to 20 miles), plus $1 each mile after the first 20.
1 Once you've selected a photographer, make sure to get every cost spelled out in your contract for services. 2  The Better Business Bureau, FrugalBride and Wedding Guide provide helpful checklists for what to include in a contract.
Talk to other photographers. Get a gauge of what the top photographers are charging in your area and compete at a higher level. In the Detroit area I know that for local use $150-$400 per image is common. At the same time, there are photographers who charge $50 and give the client the CD with all the images.
The long answer depends a lot more on where you personally fit into the photography industry and your local market. In this article I am going to explore the seven critical factors that determine how much should photographers charge per hour, along with an example of how to calculate a reasonable billable rate.
I also think it goes without saying that a photographer should charge accordingly based on their experience. If you’re a commercial photographer with over 20 years of experience, than, of course those with more experience should be charging more than photographers with only 3 or 4 years of
If you earn $30 an hour at the office, chances are you’d like to earn at least $30 an hour from your photography. If you are a full time photographer, you can work backwards from what you need to earn in a year to support your family and your lifestyle.
Talent doesn't come cheap. Experience also determines how much a photographer should cost. A new photographer (less than two years pro) would be high-minded to charge $5,000, Smith says. Years of experience add to the value, so make sure to look at plenty of samples.