Make sure the painting is free of dust; that the varnish flows evenly without leaving brushmarks (dilute it if necessary), and use a suitable varnishing brush. • Step-by-step varnishing instructions. I've Varnished a Painting But Now Want to Change Something. My Tips on Varnishing a Painting. I used to find varnishing stressful as it is possible to muck it up. My fear was that I'd accidentally go over some varnish that had started to dry and cause it to go cloudy (and acrylic varnish dries very rapidly in a hot climate !).
1 Allow each layer of varnish to dry overnight. 2  Apply the varnish with a soft brush on a horizontal painting. 3  Use even strokes in a single direction for each layer. 4  The new owner/collector of the painting can take it to a art curator for a final varnish after the painting has cured. I use the temporary varnish, otherwise known as Retouch Varnish, because it dries quicker and is a great medium to use for those ‘uncured paintings’ that need a finished look before they are completely dry. Temporary/Retouch Varnish – why & how: 1  Retouch varnish can be applied to paint which is “hand-dry”.
Varnish is a final layer applied to a painting after it is finished and completely dry. It’s used on paintings that are not going to be framed under glass to protect them from dirt, dust, and pollution in the environment. My Tips on Varnishing a Painting. I used to find varnishing stressful as it is possible to muck it up. My fear was that I'd accidentally go over some varnish that had started to dry and cause it to go cloudy (and acrylic varnish dries very rapidly in a hot climate !).
Traditionally varnishes were applied to keep paintings protected from all the dust, dirt, smoke etc.. in the atmosphere. The varnish provides a non-porous, protective layer that is removable for conservation purposes; it serves its aesthetic purpose whilst also providing protection. This does all the heavy lifting for you. By painting an isolation coat it provides an even sheen and a glass-like surface, so when you apply the final varnish it will just glide on. It’s a bit like laying a sheet of thin glass over the paint surface, and then applying a varnish to the glass.
Choosing a varnish for your acrylic painting. First, you will need to choose whether you want to use a brush-on varnish (the most common kind), or a spray varnish. I personally prefer to use a brush-on varnish because I feel it gives me greater control over the outcome, but some people might prefer a spray varnish. To thin the varnish and to clean your brushes afterwards, you'll need to use mineral spirits. Acrylic polymer varnishes, on the other hand, are non-toxic. They can be diluted with water and you can wash your brush with regular soap and water when you are finished.
Waiting for a painting to dry thoroughly is less of an issue with acrylics than it is with oils (some experts say you should allow at least six months). If you want to even out the gloss on a not-yet-dry oil painting, use retouch varnish. My Tips on Varnishing a Painting. I used to find varnishing stressful as it is possible to muck it up. My fear was that I'd accidentally go over some varnish that had started to dry and cause it to go cloudy (and acrylic varnish dries very rapidly in a hot climate !).
You’ve a choice between gloss and matte varnish, applied either with a brush or out of a spray can. Gloss varnishes dry completely clear, but a matte (sometimes called satin) varnish leaves a slight frosted-glass appearance, so you might loose finer detail in a painting if you use it. My Tips on Varnishing a Painting. I used to find varnishing stressful as it is possible to muck it up. My fear was that I'd accidentally go over some varnish that had started to dry and cause it to go cloudy (and acrylic varnish dries very rapidly in a hot climate !).
After the isolation coat has thoroughly dried, you can then varnish your painting. The downside of acrylic resin varnishes is that they are toxic if inhaled, so you will need to apply the varnish in a well-ventilated area. To thin the varnish and to clean your brushes afterwards, you'll need to use mineral spirits. Acrylic polymer varnishes, on the other hand, are non-toxic. They can be diluted with water and you can wash your brush with regular soap and water when you are finished.
PAINTING VARNISHES. The varnish layer plays a dual role: it has and effect on the final appearance of the painting and also serves as a protective coating for the paint surface. Varnishes intensify the appearance of pigments on the painting surface by the refraction of light. This is called saturation..