How to Clean Laminate Floors Learn all about how to care for and clean your laminate floor Keeping Your Shaw Laminate Floor Clean R2X Hard Surface Cleaner Shaw recommends Shaw R2X® Hard Surfaces Flooring Cleaner applied with a terry cloth mop for your laminate flooring.
1 Liquid can stain or damage the protective wear layer of the laminate flooring. 2  Soak up excess liquid with a dry cloth. 3  Dampen the cloth or sponge before spot-cleaning the location of the spill to remove any remaining residue. 4  Dry the spot with a dry, soft cloth. 5  Do not allow the area to remain wet.
How NOT to Clean Laminate Flooring: 1  Do Not get too much water or cleaner on your laminate flooring, the excess liquid causes the laminate to expand and will lead to other bigger problems. 2  Do Not scrap a mess off of your laminate flooring, use a slightly damp cloth or special cleaner to clean up any stuck on messes.
Here are a few more tips and things to avoid doing when caring for laminate flooring: 1  Make sure the mop or damp cloth you use to clean the floor isn’t too soggy and if you can, dry the floor afterwards with a soft cloth. 2  Blot up spills or water with a sponge, dry cloth or paper towel.
Laminate floors need to be cleaned regularly in order to prevent them from getting scratched or warped, but using harsh cleansers can create streaks or damage the laminate. General cleaning with a dry mop should be done regularly, but for more intense cleaning, warm water or mild cleaners can also be applied.
Cleaning up loose dirt or dry messes from your laminate flooring is very similar to what you would do for linoleum. It is safe to use a broom to sweep up these types of messes or to use a vacuum cleaner that does not have the rotating brush underneath (also known as the beater bar).
1 Make sure the mop or damp cloth you use to clean the floor isn’t too soggy and if you can, dry the floor afterwards with a soft cloth. 2  Blot up spills or water with a sponge, dry cloth or paper towel. 3  Do not allow puddles to remain on the surface of your laminate floor for too long because they could cause warping.
Spray a dedicated laminate floor cleaner onto a clean microfiber dust mop, or use a mixture of equal parts vinegar and hot water, also lightly sprayed onto the dust mop rather than applied to the floor directly. Wipe the floor with the mop after sweeping or dusting all the loose, dry debris away.
Applying cleaner directly to the surface of the laminate can cause staining—lightly spray it on a cleaning cloth or damp mop instead. Avoid cleaning machines like spray mops, steam cleaners or mops, or power cleaners.