When we perform a role in relation to an audience (society), that role is on frontstage and our performance (behavior) is open to judgment by those who observe it. The backstage region is a place where the actors can discuss, polish, or refine their performance without revealing themselves to their audience.
Dramaturgical sociology is a sociological perspective that studies social interactions, emphasizing the ways in which those involved work to create, maintain, dismantle, and present a shared understanding of reality.
Front-stage/backstage behavior. One of Erving Goffman’s brilliant insights is the extent to which people engage in presentations of self. Front-stage behavior is the display meant for ‘public’ consumption: witty, urbane, dangerous, smart, smooth, down-to-earth, intellectual, anti-intellectual.
The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life is a book that was published in 1959, written by sociologist Erving Goffman. In it, he uses the imagery of theater in order to portray the importance of human and social action and interaction.
In the 1950s, Erving Goffman introduced the terms front stage and back stage into the lexicon of sociology and anthropology. As is commonly understood in the social sciences—and even in popular culture, today—social actors play roles, and do so in relation to others.
This is called impression management. Goffman makes an important distinction between front stage and back stage behavior. As the term implies, front stage actions are visible to the audience and are part of the performance. People engage in back stage behaviors when no audience is present.
Goffman makes an important distinction between front stage and back stage behavior. As the term implies, front stage actions are visible to the audience and are part of the performance. People engage in back stage behaviors when no audience is present.
In social interaction, like in theatrical performances, there is a front region where the actors are on stage in from of an audience. There is also a back region, or back stage, where individuals can be themselves and get rid of their role or identity that they play when they are in front of others.
Weddings are a heightened example of what sociologist Erving Goffman called front stage behavior. Goffman viewed social life as something akin to a performance, where we attempt to manage the impressions we make to others.